h

<

L I B RA FlY

OF THE

University

or Ill Noise

vel ^

t

V A

\

{

t

^

i

PRINCE FATAL.

AND

PRINCE FATAL.

Br MRS. CARRINGTON,

AUTHOR or "MY COUSIN MAURICE."

"Marriage is a desperate thing. The frogs in .top were extreme
wi-e. They had a great mind to some water, but they wild n«»t leap
irit«j the well, because they could not get out again"— Selden.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE & RHTNGTOX,

CROWN BUILDINGS. 188, FLEET STREET.

1880.

(sall rights reserved.)

Printed BY WILLIAM Clowns AND SONS, LIMITED,
STAMFORD STREET AND CHAIIIKG CROSS. ,.

Marchesa ADELA MAMELI DEI Mannerly

NATA ZOAGLI,
AND TO

ALL DEAR FRIENDS

OF THE

PALAZZO DELLA CHIESA.

r^.

PAGE

Le Lever de Eideau . . . 1

I. Lady Laure . . . . 13

II. A Fungus . . . . . 29

III. To-day and To-morrow . . 43

IV. Chance and Doom . . . . 63

V. Romance . . . . 92

VI. Realities . . . . . lf)5

VII. The Question . . . , Ill

VIII. The Answer . . ' . . 118

IX. Love . . . . . 128

X. Antagonisms . . . . 134

XI. Friendship . . . . 169

XII. Watch ant) Wait . . . . 176

Xii God bless YOU ALL . . . 195

CHAPTER PAf. g

XIV. "God be merciful to me a Sls-^'er!" . 21'J

i

XV. Demain, il fera Nuit Encore .

XVI. "For so He giveth His Beloved Sleep" . 2.>2

XVII. Broken Hearts «L>a) Broken Heads

XVIII. Mother Earth

XIX. Murderous Meditations . . i I

XX. Men and Angels . . . . sig

LE LEYEB DE Ideal.

Maiden, were I a king, and craved to be
Thy slave, and power, and purple luxury.
And conquering hosts, and fleets that sway the sea-and
crown, and subject millions did resign.
To cal thee mine ;

Xo larger gifts should I then offer thee,
Than did I give. Life, Love, and Liberty, —
Did sacrifice to thee, this priceless three. —
Did pledge them 'gainst that heart and hand of thine.
To make them mine.

A variation

It is New Year's Eve.

Away to the North, in one of those fine old houses
that make the land so stately, there is a festive
gathering. For this night, none bnt kinsfolk, and
friends near and dear as kindred, meet beneath this
hospitable roof. But of these favoured guests there is
no stint, no lack of house room, no lack of welcome ;
three generations make the old hall runs: with hearty
cheer, and bind themselves in a gay covenant, to seethe
old year out and the new year in.

VOL. r. H- B

The host, with his handsome face of five and forty
years, has a genial word for all. He has had his
grief; but he knows how to put black care behind
him ; and, though the wife he cherished is no more, he
looks with a father's happy smile upon the soir girl
and boy at his side.

A gentle pair. People patted their blonde heads,
and praised their pretty English faces; yet scarcely
more English than anything: else. Just such child
heads may be met under many a Southern sky. Even
upon Porto Tenere's jagged and shadeless rock, famed
for its black-browed women, even there will flock
after you flaxen-haired, blue-eyed imps, bold, barelegged,
and ragged, with skins for the sun to colour —
skins which soap and water would bring out white
enough to match with any little Saxon of the lot !

To the left of the blonde-headed heir is another
boy, of an altogether different type, taller by a head —
a paragon of boyish beauty ; a confident air ; a mobile
face, where every word comes with a blush that is not
shame but pride ; dark, wavy' hair ; dark, dazzling eyes
of varying hue, violet or black or grey ; a figure to
match the face, lithe and straight, full of the fair
promise of manhood's grace and strength.

It is to be a ball; the couples pair off; the band
strikes up. The seven-year-old Lady Laure is to open
the dance with her father's ward.

He stands in the background, shy or serious. You
might have guessed him to be Scotch, and you would

have called him sandy ; a tall, heavy lad, with eyes on
the ground.

The host is beckoning to him. He is advancing
awkwardly, when, quick as thought, with eyes and
cheeks aglow, the dark-haired boy springs to the side
of the small queen of the ball, half bends his knee
with boyish laugh, takes the tiny hand in his; and
before the noble father can set things right, the two
are far down the polished floor, and, for the time, quite
beyond the reach of rebuke or restoration.

Something of a brief dismay succeeds to this bold
raid. One voice alone applauds ; " Bravo, my Claude ! "
cries the blonde-headed heir. But the dismay sweeps
off with the whirring dance, and much fault-finding
was not the way with the good-tempered host ; nor did
the dash of daring: in this ** Young: Lochinvar " come
much amiss to him. Yet he is sorry for his ward, as he
marks the lad grow paler by a shade.

'aforetime of war, Aboyne," is his friendly word;
*' never take it to heart, man. If Lorraine has been
beforehand with you this time, look out sharp for the
next dance."

The lad was a slow lad, but he could feel. He was
brave too, and he tried to laugh out some light reply ;
but it was a poor attempt, and he gave it up. He knew
as well as any one that he was cutting a sorry figure
just then ; but that was not the thing that mattered.

Our host was thoroughly kind. " It was my fault,
if any one's, my boy," says he. laying his hand upon

the half-tamed shoulder. '* I should have called you
up before ; but our little Laure knew no better, and
Lucie, you know, lords all his friend Claude's madcap
freaks."

It was no one's fault," says the unlucky one. He
has conquered himself, and he lifts his head and speaks
with the quiet voice and manner habitual to him. He
turns off to look at the dancers. But here comes the
dark-eyed boy, flying past him at full speed, with his
lovely little prize borne up in his arms, her tiny feet
touching nothing but the air, — success, strength, sauciness
in his whole swing. It is too much ; but he will
stand without flinching till he thinks himseK forgotten.
Then he steals away to one of the long oriel windows,
and, in its friendly recess, he gathers up his wounded
feelings as best he can.

It is a matchless midwinter night — calm, clear,
and frost-bound. Moon and stars without, rival the
lamps and lustres within; through the uncurtained
windows the white light and the red stream in and out ;
the black house-shadows flicker in the double glare;
the spreading park sleeps serenely under the cold
sheen. As the dance waxes warmer and faster, the
high lattices are thrown open, and the swelling blasts
of music wake the far echoes of moor and hilL The
fallow deer rouse, startled, from their lair, and the herd
go at full pace across the open to the low-lying thickets.

But where is Lady Laure ? Aboyne has sought her
in vain. Has the dark-even hero carried her off bxlilv ?

Xow the faaUriDom is fooakeii, the ^ies& gather
round the siqvpCT-taUe; hot the little ladies place
beside her £other is vacant. It wants but a moment of
midnight. One moment; and then, in the lodi of
Toises, the old dock toverthiills the crisp airvith the
knell of tone.

Sad and strange do these familiar studies fisk, in
nights like this, upon hearts and ears, with a Mdnf«Ft
that is dose upon tears, a stnmgeneas that gives a
shire of emotion.

Bnt where is Lady Lore ? The host tools to Ae
right and to the left. This launching of the wild into
a new epoch has arrested the anxious question; but
now it is pot with redoubled face. The little lady
must be found.

Then the ^th^ bethinks him of a great powo^

"" Sid for MzsL Prudence"

Mrs. Prudence in doe time appeals ; starched cap,
apion, folded aims, tightly closed montis, sharp eye —
every inch the janaeaj autocrat. Xow. Mr?. Prudence
had nursed and reared, Qghdped to riear,twogeaBfatin«i6
(^ this noble house.

She takes the over wail j ; she has lived too long
in a weDr<Hdezed household not to a]^ieeiafte the
futility of alae alaTmg But when, for ten minutes,
she has bustled here and thae»i]^ and down; wlieB,fo'
the first time, she has made the disooT^y that the
confusion of staircases and galleries, lofalMes^ and
passages, which make the old house such a labyrinth.

is the most inconvenient thing in the world, especially
to lose a child in ; then Mrs. Prudence's courage and
calmness begin to ooze out generally all over her. She
talks to herself rapidly ; she moves erratically ; she
wrings her hands, pushes up her cap, and gives every
bodily sign of mental discomposure ; for the twentieth
time she hobbles up and down the empty ball-room,
ordinarily the entrance-hall of the house ; she is fairly
exhausted, and takes refuge in the porter's chair. But
she is up again at once.

Why, sure," cries she, " the door's ajar ! And
what's that — that white thing ? Lady Laure ? No,
never ! "

Mrs. Prudence's amazement stops her tongue, but
not her legs and arms. With a great swing the door
flies open, and out she goes.

The search is over. Upon the broad stone steps
stands Lady Laure, her white skirts fluttering to the
rising wind, her little shoulders muffled in a boy's coat ;
and minus this complement to his attire, beside her,'
bold and bareheaded, is the partner of her first dance.

Shrill as a whistle, Mrs. Prudence shrieks out her
nursling's name.

The boy steps in between them. " You will please
to speak to me about this, Mrs. Prudence."

Speak to you ! Pll have nothing to do with you,
you audacious young gentleman ! "

As she speaks, she pushes him aside, seizes her
charge with a firm grip, lands her inside the hall, and

then, breathless with the angry effort, stops to recover
herself.

Lady Laure is not alarmed at the wrath of sirs.
Prudence ; no one has ever been unkind to her, least
of all her old nurse.

Lady Laure has large infantine, blue eyes, a sweet,
colourless face, and is tranquil as a dove. She smiles
passively in the indignant grasp that holds her.

"What, in the name of all that's good, was you
a-doing out there, Lady Laure ? " gasps Mrs. Prudence,
not yet come to her composure.

Watching the deer, nurse." And the blue eyes
look up confidingly to the frowning brow.

Did any one ever hear the like ? Watching the
deer, indeed ! The deer are asleep, where you ought
to be, Lady Laure."

But, Prue, the deer are awake, and they have
been dancing ; we saw them ; their shadows went up
and down. It was so pretty, all in the moon," says
Lady Laure.

Mrs. Prudence gives no reply, but she releases the
captive, and closes the door with a great bang ; and
then she turns upon the elder culprit.

You don't deserve to be spoken to, Mr. Claude ;
and I wouldn't, if it wasn't to tell you that you ought
to be ashamed of yourself taking this baby out in the
cold, and alarming of the house. But you'll hear the
same from my lord tomorrow, I can tell you ! "

I hope not ; " and the boy speaks with a lofty

air. "Lord Bellarmine will have to give me Lady
Lanre for my wife some day. We have been betrothed
to-night, and Lucie is witness."

^ Witness ! Betrothed ! How dare you talk such
bold nonsense to mv younsr lady ? " cries Mrs. Prudence.

"But, nurse," says Lady Laure-lucre brought
Claude all the way from Eton for it"

"' And he may take hin back again ; so come along
with me ! " and Prudence seizes the child as if the lawless
Claude was sroins: at once to carry off his bride.

As she crosses the hall, she keeps up a running
gamble of threats and angry comments all round.

*• Ah ! you're a baby. Lady Laure ; but you know
better than this, you do. When did I ever take you
out in your frock only, at night too, and with this
frost? And Lord Lucie, I took him for something
better, I did. But to put such stuff into your head !
He is a bad boy, he is ; and brought up so proper too !
And as for you, you young Irish rebel, it's just what
I might expect; you never cares for no one. But
you've seen the last of my lady this visit, you may
trust me ! "

The Irish rebel walks behind, not a whit abashed,
holding his head very high ; yet, when he gets into
the supper-room, he gives a furtive look up to the
head of the table. But when Mrs. Prudence placed
her little lady beside "my lord," she smoothed her
raffled face, and said not one word at all, like a prudent
woman as she was.

Lady Laure had some distinct ideas upon the
subject of nuuriagesr and betrothal. But one month
before, she had made the prettiest of pretty little
bride-maidens to her godmother and oonsin; and
that very evening she wore the hxket presented ber
the bridegroom on the occasion. For the matter of
her own betrothal; she had listened to the arrangement
without any surprise. Her brother Lucie proposed it,
and had explained to her that it was of the anne
nature as the marriage ceremony, and always went
before it. He told her that Claude did it to please
him, and then Lady Lame, as she loved hex brother
Lucie dearly, was quite ready to please hfm toa

"And when you are big, Laure," says Lucie, "yon
will belong to Claude for ever. That will be nice,
won't it?"

'but I want you too, Lucie," cases Lady Lame,
her blue, innocent eyes opening wide upon the yofong
match-maker.

Lucie's answer is to lift the fair little face up to
his own for a kiss.

The boy of thirteen is a person of experience to the
baby of seven. But the blonde heads matdiwell, obHj
the boy's eyes are more dent, and his hair has mcHe
gold, and he is altogether the more radiant creature of
the two.

The dark-eyed Claude is full of his dash and
daring. but he has no sentiment in the fdtme.

When Lucie cries. "And then we shall be brothers.

Claude ! " Claude replies, " Friends are just as good ;
but you shall do what you like, old fellow."

He hasn't any interest in this betrothal save to
humour his friend; but as he said, when describing
to Lucie his battle-royal with Mrs. Prudence, "Stow
you've got me in for it, Lucie, I shall have to stand up
for my rights ! "

But this affair stands quite disconnected from the
little lady herself. She is to be his " wife some day'*
as he proudly said ; but the " some day " has an unlimited
far-offers in it. Now she is his little plaything,
that he amuses himself with amusing ; that is,
he tosses and catches her as he does any other ball
that comes in his way.

Upon this eventful night Lady Laure lays her
pretty head upon her pillow, with all these things
mixing up in her little mind. She is a mighty calm
little lady, but to-night, what with the dancing and the
deer, and Lucie's fine ceremony, and Mrs. Prudence's
fine scolding, her childish intellect is made all alive,
and she does not fall sound asleep before nurse has
had time to tuck her up, as she does upon common
nights, at the sober hour of eight o'clock. But the
strongest impression is the one that came last — Mrs.
Prue's fine scolding. Lady Laure had never heard
Mrs. Prue scold so finely before. She was not at all
alarmed by it; but she wondered why she was so
terribly cross to Claude, and why she called him such
a strange and ugly name as an Irish rebel. She was

sure that Lucie would not like it at all, and Claude
was certain to tell Lucie. She fell asleep with this
wonder in her mind, and when she awoke in the morning,
it was still there.

What is an Irish rebel, nurse ? " asked Lady
Laure from between the bed-curtains.

An Irish rebel ! Why, bless you, Lady Laure,
what's that to us ? You'll be ill asking of questions
before you're out of your bed. This comes of keeping
a lady like you up to that time of night."

'•' But, nurse, didn't you call Claude an Irish rebel
last night?"

Well, if I did, I can't help it, so put out as I was !
He deserved a good deal more than that. But them
big boys, who's to do anything with them ? They're
not fit to have anything to do with the girls. It's what
I've always stuck to, only what's the use of my talking ?
It's the mercy of Heaven you've not got your death of
cold, I know that."

But, nurse, what is an Irish rebel ? " asks Lady
Laure, not to be put off by Mrs. Prue's nursery theories.

How can I tell you, such a child as you are, all
about rebels ? In course, I remember as I used to hear
'em told of by my grandmother, who corned from therewith
my grandfather, who was sent there to catch 'em."
Mrs. Prudence pauses. " As to Mr. Claude," says she,
he's Irish anyhow ; and if we had rebels now, take
my word he'd be in the thick of 'em. With his audacious
impudence, he's up to every mischief. He's here

for no good, and if I was my lord he shouldn't set foot
here again ; and this I'd very soon let Lord Lucie
know ! " Prudence all this time is folding up Lady
Laure's finery of the night before. At last she cries out
in the middle of her lecture, '* Dear me, Lady Lahore,
how you do talk this morning ! I can't tell half what I
am about. Now I've gone and lost your pearl locket
that you had driven you at the wedding:. I know I tied
it on your neck last night, and you must have took it
off yourself. Here's another pretty business if that's
lost now."

*• Oh, it's not lost," says Lady Laure. '• Lucie took
it off and gave it to Claude, and I'm to have Claude's
pretty ring, only it's too big for me, and Lucie is
going to wear it for me."

Mrs. Prudence is once more aghast. " Did ever
any one hear of two such boys ? But I'll be master.
Young scamps ! Before I'm a night older, that locket
shall come back ! "

Don't try, nurse dear," says Lady Laure, with her
little head stretched out of her bed. " It's no use, he
won't give it you. He said he'd never give it away, and
he never tells stories."

Lady Laure was right. Mrs. Prudence stormed in
vain, and Claude Lorraine left Bellarmine the betrothed
of Lady Laure Lucie, and the bold possessor
of the pearl locket.

And this was the wav it all began.

Chapter L

LADYLAUBK

How hath God made ha good to see I
So htAj, fan of knee, and fide.
For the great gifts that in her be.
An haste her pniaes to declare.
Of meridian coal eoald weary be?
Sadi day her beauty doth repair.
How hath God made ho* good to aee !
So holy, faU of grace, and fide.
'Sat hither, nor beyond the sea.
No Diamonds nor Dames HuEste are
Who can with her in gifts compare :
Only in dreams soda tin aaghfat «qiii he.
How hath God made her good to see!

Border Crores IfOttemmt,

A GLOWING mid-day sin, set in a sky of imiatliomable
blue. A scene of soft contrasts, blended into a divine
harmony of light and colour.

A broad sea, boundless to the eye into its wide
distance, sparkling, dancing, and blue as the sky above
it ; its snowy fringes playing round reef and islet ; its
murmurs rippling in cave and creek.

A miniature bay, its perfect crescent stretched
between a breasting rock crowned with the walls of
an antique city, and a pine-clad cape, against whose

sombre shades shoot up in bold relief a pile of yellow
crags, and in their midst a grey village, like a frown
upon the brow of a giant.

A background of purple mountains, closing round
from shore to sky ; their jagged peaks piercing the
clear ether, and, on the topmost, the warlike stronghold
— a grim sentinel of other days, marking the line
of the giddy road that spans the steep ; — and sweeping
down in soft masses from the heights, the silvery olive
woods, the glossy citron groves, and the white houses
nestling in their green vines.

There are no words, there is no painter's brush for
such a picture : this expanse of water, this strip of
land ; a glorious mirror, in a gorgeous frame, all ablaze
under the meridian sun.

This day of sunshine was a long while ago, to
measure time by events. The man who fell asleep
then, if he awoke to-day, would scarcely know the
world he had closed his eyes upon ; he would have to
open them very wide before he came to feel himself at
all at home again, especially wide if he had chanced
to fall into his long nap in the small town that lies
hidden behind that thickly wooded cape, the eastern
headland of this beautiful bay, — one of the gathering-places
of the world now, but, in those days, of no
particular interest, save to the people whose lot it was
to live in it and around it, — a fortunate lot, no doubt,
but for certain drawbacks, which can convert a paradise
into a place of punishment. The bulk of these good

folk, however, had light hearts and peaceable natures.
They went their ways, taking the good with the bad.
If they sighed under their grievances, they smiled at
the sun, gathered in their olives and lemons, put out
their fishing-nets, thanked the Madonna for good hauls
and crops, and made the best of the bad ones.

Keener spirits there were in their midst, whose
minds took a wider range, and with less content ; but
these dines lyriviUgiees — if it be a privilege to be
foremost to feel injustice, to resent oppression, and to
vindicate men's rights-do not come in a crowd,
though they may come to lead one; and here they
might be counted on the fingers.

This day, however, is the peculiar property of the
light-hearted part of the community; it is the anniversary
of the half-yearly fair of the town, and the
fete, moreover, of its patron saint.

It is a grand day ; and as St. Benoit, the St. Swithin
of this land, has hid his head before the better influence
of the more legitimate saint who presides overall
good things (fine weather included), in addition to
the more serious business of buying and selling, it will
be the occasion of much rustic mirth and mummery.

The town has put on its gayest attire ; the shops
do their best to rival the improvised counters which
crowd the narrow ways ; the bells are ringing ; High
Masses and processions, and rude attempts at miracle-plays,
present religion in its most attractive form, and
remind the holiday-makers that now is the time to

make acceptable offerings of cakes and candles, to
priest and shrine. The inns and wine-shops do a
lively trade ; few are without a fiddler, and card-playing
and dancing will go on from morning to evening
and throughout the best part of the night.

From early dawn, on every side, the mountain-paths
have been alive with travellers. None come quite
empty-handed, though the lightness of their burdens
betrays the meagreness of their possessions — a handful
of wheaten corn grown in some sheltered nook, a little
flax, a bundle of fodder, a string of onions, a basket of
figs, a case of honey, a keg of wine. If any favoured
mortal has a mule to drive, or such a treasure as a
coop of fowls, a lean pig, or a tattered sheep in tow, he
becomes at once the object of as much envy as respect.

By mid-day scarce a soul is left in the village that
hangs aloft amidst the yellow crags; the few who
remain, lean over, the rude parapets of their eyrie,
straining to catch a sight of the unusual life that is
stirring about ; — the main road lies too far down
in deep shade under the projecting mass ; but further
off, on the slopes, they can see dark specks, like strings
of black ants hurrying along; and in their turn, to
eyes below them, they lose all human semblance, and
take the form, in their gay head-gears, of bright-plumage
birds, perched aloft in the glaring light.

Viewed from afar, this huge stony cliff seems to
descend sheer to the sea ; but, in fact, the bare rock
stops short of the waves by about a hundred feet;

grounding upon a small promontory, which, with one
of Nature's beautiful caprices, is as luxuriant as the
height that commands it, is barren.

A villa of some pretensions stands upon its green
plateau, half smothered in vine herceaux, and shut in
by arbutus and rich-flowering trees and a tangled
garden of roses and myrtle hedges.

A citron grove covers the sides and reaches to the
edge of the blue water, in which the rock again crops
up, forming a broken line of reefs that have their
foundations fathoms down in the sea-depths.

The road that runs between the base of the rock
and the small domain of this villa, before it touches its
boundaries, is carried with striking effect across one
of those perilous stone-ways which bridge the watercourses
in these parts. At the present moment, it is
slightly more dilapidated than usual, having given
way near the centre under the pressure of a very
moderate weight.

The gap is filled up by the simple expedient of a
few pine logs thrown across it — surer repairs are in
course of execution ; but for to-day all labour is suspended.
In appearance, this temporary affair looks
alarming, but it is probably quite as stable as the rest
of the construction.

The folks bound for the fair, however, are too much
preoccupied with what is before them to be troubled
with their fears to-day. No doubt, some among them
have an ex vote hanging up in the shrine over the mound

I-J- C

pains, depicting some miraculous escape of this nature ;
but that is only a better reason for present confidence.
This bridge is a converging point for all paths, whether
coming from the shore or the hills; and crowds of
chattering peasants linger near it, and even upon it,
exchanging greetings, and forming groups as gay and
picturesque as possible.

The fishermen, handsome fellows, with their red
sashes and caps ; jaunty mountain youths, with their
wide awake hats set on awry, and their embroidered
jackets hung upon one shoulder ; the women, in their
broad sun hats or gaudier kerchiefs ; rugged-faced
shepherds, in their coats of skins ; beggars, in matchless
rags ; bare-legged children ; and, to complete the
picture, the element of the Church — the priest, smooth
and heavy ; the lean Capuchin, with his fine cowled
features, bare throat, ashy hue, and crisp beard, looking
as if he had just stepped out of some mediaeval
picture-frame ; and behind him a wretched third, the
begging friar, mumbling and cringing, with sack and
staff, bent and unspeakably dirty, his eyes bloodshot,
his beard and hair matted, his knees ready to double
under him at each step — a suppliant at all shrines,
earthly ones taking the precedence.

There is one exception, however, to the universally
idle hands. To observers, Festus seem especially
marked out by the washerwomen for plying their labours,
and, true to their habit, yonder, down below the bridge,
beside the narrow channel of the water's bed, kneel the

brown-armed, short-coated women, taking no heed of
the trooping crowds above them, their heads bent over
the shallow stream, their hands remorselessly engaged
in beating, very near to a pulp, their neighbour's linen.
Hard-featured enough, you can see they are, if one,
exhausted for the moment by her efforts, chances to
stop and look up ; for here, where beauty is supremely
in the ascendant, hard fare, hard work, and hot suns
soon reduce to positive ugliness that portion of mankind
commonly called the fairer. But look at that
girl, with her ass and wine-skins, who stays to rest at
the further end of the bridge. She has thrown off her
flat-crowned hat ; she stands bareheaded, barefooted,
and barekneed, in black bodice and snow-white
chemisette and sleeves, blue neckerchief, and tucked-up
yellow skirt. She has a chaussure befitting these
upper glories — buckled shoes and the red clocked
stockings swing beside the gourds and skins on the
ass. Why waste these valuable possessions upon the
wear and tear of the mountain stones, and the gnarled
roots of the pine trees ahead ? These rude trials safely
passed, shoes and stockings will be donned upon the
noiseless sward, under the great olive trees — a landmark
which tells her the town is near. See how she
poses against that jutting bit of wall, maybe with
an air of coquettish pride ; but that may well be
pardoned to her, for her face, her figure, the fold of her
arms, the turn of her head, the coil of her hair, take
you straight back through the centuries !

She stands before you, the living model of the grand
masterpieces of immortal Art.

But in a safe retreat at hand is a recumbent
pair, who make no part of this rustic panorama. As
little have they to do with the classic ideal. They are
altogether modern, and a la mode in look and manner,
and talk. Not that they lack beauty. In their regular
features, their easy elegance, their exquisite polish,
character may be missing, but none of the other
charms which grace and youth and the refinements of
the world can impart.

Out of the sun, into the shade, on the ground under
the citron boughs they repose, breathing the fragrant
odours of the blossoms, and idly playing with the
fallen fniit ; for this, in very truth, is the Land of the
Citron, where, with either hand, you may gather fruit
and flower.

Conversation between the two has flagged ; at last
it ceases; the faint, warm-scented air is slumberous.
The blue eyes of the lady follow a skiff across the sea,
as it skims the level waves like a dainty swan, its
white sail as snowy as the bird's plumage. The dark
eyes of her cavalier take the same direction.

Watching the sunshiny sea is dazzling, dreamy
work. At an indefinite moment, sky, sea, sail, fade
from the vision of the blue eyes and the black — the
play of thought relaxes in attitude and feature. If a
genre painter could have caught this sleeping pair
thus, it would have been worth a thousand pounds to
him.

With a sudden sweep through the overhanging
greenery, comes the rustle of the rising breeze.

The owner of the black eyes opens them with a
leisurely stretch ; he has only been half asleep at the
most. He changes his position indolently, and speaks,
Avithout looking at his companion, "Upon my word,
Lady Laure, I believe I have been napping. I beg
your pardon ; these hot suns are so drowsy ! "

The owner of the blue eyes gives an unconscious
start ; they open wide as she answers, with a quick
shade of colour on her fair cheek, " Indeed, Mr.
Lorraine, I believe — I think I was almost asleep too."

Then I must beg pardon again for my awkwardness
in awakening you. What sweet dream did I
drive away ? Ladies, young ladies, always dream
sweet dreams," says. he, with a laugh ; " don't they ? "

I cannot tell. I do not think I ever dream."
Lady Laure drops her eyes half shyly before the full
look that is turned suddenly upon her.

Nor do I." He answers indifferently, with a half-yawn.
" It is such a waste of good sleep, isn't it ? "

But who can prevent dreaming ? "

"Well, if you're young, and don't eat shell-fish,
and avoid the grand emotions, you are pretty safe."
He gives himself a stretch and starts to his feet. " I'll
not run the risk again to-day of sleeping in a fair
lady's presence." He stops, as if a thought struck
him ; then he goes on, with a quicker tone of interest,
By-the-by, Lady Laure, when did you say Lucie is
I. tito

come ? Now he, amongst other good things, would
keep us awake to a certainty."

"I don't know," says Lady Laure, musingly.
Lucie is full of dreams — waking ones, and he loves
to be alone. But I fear we shall not see him yet ;
he is bringing out his poem."

Ah ! yes ; strange. I had forgotten it, though I
think you spoke of it yesterday. Passing strange, it
seems to me. Lucie turned poet and dreamer! To
a certain sense, he was always something of the latter.
But poet ! — well, no one's safe till he's dead. But how
about the county politics? — how does all that agree
with the poetry ? "

You have heard, then ? " says she, hesitatingly.
Heard nothing," he answers, " except what you
have told me ; but hustings speeches, which, by his
prescriptive rights, Lucie is born to, don't strike meas
in a poet's line."

Ah ! " sighs Lady Laure ; " he will have nothing
to do with it. It so much disappoints his father!"
Then she sighs again and says quite pathetically,
Lucie has such different opinions to papa ! "
Broken out of harness ? " laughs Lorraine.
"But they are always good friends," continues
Lady Laure, quickly. " Lucie would be miserable if
it were not so ; and my father, you know, is so kind,
and he does not mind it quite so much now that " —
she stops a moment — " that Mr. Aboyne is going to
stand for our division of the county."

"Aboyne! Is lie still the same confounded silent
prig ? " asks Lorraine, bluntly.

The colour rises to her face. '' That is not a fair
question," she says, with a little show of spirit. '^' I
may not understand what you mean by ' prig ; ' but I
don't think he is, or ever was one."

'•Ah! a favoured " But Lorraine breaks off;

his eyes are still full on the lovely face, where now the
rose shade reddens to crimson. The saucy speech is
checked upon his tongue ; not with any confusion, however
; he has sang-froid sufficient for the whole brigade
to which he belongs. He speaks again, and still in
reply to Lady Laure's protest ; but it is in a different
voice. '• You are quite right. Lady Laure. Friendship
I have a great respect for friendship " — he emphasizes
the word — ** friendship forbids us to admit the
faults of our friends ; but mr. Aboyne is no friend of
mine, nor was, as a boy. I have not seen him since.
He seemed to me the very model of a prig ; if I met
him now, I should be surprised if I had to change my
opinion"' Lorraine sets great store by his opinions,
even one formed at such a very early period of his life
he cannot bring himself so much as to pretend to
relinquish, though at the risk of an ungallant argument
with his fair companion. But Lady Laure has
by nature the art of silence, and the matter drops.

But it has stirred up the past ; it has taken
Lorraine back to his boyhood and set him thinking.

"To fancy," he cries, "that I should be staying

with you here, actually under the same roof again
with you, after all these years! Your father, Lady
Laure, will be hospitable, whether at home or abroad.
So remarkable," he adds, with a look as if he were
making out a problem, "that we should never have
met before ! "

"But you have been out of England," suggests
Lady Laure.

That's true. Of course ; yes, that may account
for it. You in the West, I in the East ; we have been
out of each other's beat decidedly. But it's a whole
twelve months, you know, since I came home and
exchanged into the Guards. Time to get tired of it,
I assure you."

Somehow all this time Lady Laure is feeling
terribly embarrassed by her father's determined hospitality
to the gallant Guardsman.

It is astonishing," continues Lorraine, " how soon
one gets tired of most things ! "

To which Lady Laure replies not quite to the
point, but with a very apologetic accent, " We have
such a number of spare rooms in the villa."

Ah ! I dare say," says Lorraine. He makes no
other comment, but he looks curiously at her. "Do
you remember me ? " he asks ; " not as I am naturally,
but as I was ? I remember you, as if it were only
yesterday."

Yes, I think I do ; indeed, of course I do. You
are not much changed, are you ? " But she blushes

as she tries, with very ill success, to look him in the
face.

Lady Laure blushes so much to-day. Yet blushing
is not her wont ; her lily cheeks rarely borrow the
damask of the rose, nor is her sweet composure often
fluttered from its serene repose.

Changed ! " returns he, with a most self-approving
smile. " I should think I must be mightily changed.
I believe, in my young days, I was a regular beau — so
my Eton dame used to declare ; she was the only fair
one who ever told me flattering tales. But, you see,"
he moves a little before her ; " behold ! Hyperion
changed to a Satyr ! "

A look of pride crosses her face. She does not
blush now ; and yet, before the words are well spoken
with which she replies, the pride is gone and the
blush comes again. " I am not able to pay you
compliments."

Come, I like that ; that's just what I like ! "
declares Lorraine. " You are honest — honest as Lucie
was. You can be nothing better than like your
brother."

Her face softens with pleasure. "You have not
forgotten Lucie ! " She looks at him now without
embarrassment. A bond of sympathetic union and
confidence is set up. "What great friends you were !"
she cries.

Forgotten him ! Why should I ? And when we
come together again, we shall be as great friends as

ever. And you — you and he — you are always devoted
to each other still, I suppose ? Let me see. How long
is it ago ? Eight — ten years. Well, never mind the
time ; but in those days, when we all were young —
not grown old, as I have — in those happy days, Lucie
hadn't a thought but for you — and for me." The last
word comes slowly. He would have followed it with
a sigh, if sighing had been possible to him. " What
a worship it was ! " he cries, after a moment's pause.
There was something sublime in it. And the visions
he had! but never for himself; the plans he wove
in his fertile brain ! " But Lorraine brings himself
short up ; his memories are running away with his
habitual protectors — his prudence and his indifference.
But he knows well how to cover his mistake. " What
a delightful tie," says he, "is that of brother and
sister ! the envy of a lonely fellow like myself."

'' Ah ! we love each other very dearly'* answers
Lady Laure, with glistening eyes. "But Lucie is
too kind ; he spoils me."

That's impossible ! " Lorraine's voice has the
ring for once of genuine sincerity. " Excuse me for
flatly contradicting you. But the sun is growing
really too hot. Don't you feel it so? The air is heating
like a furnace. I should recommend a move. Let
me give you a hand — and an arm, if you will accept
one — up this steep path. Climbing is the order of the
day hereabouts. A little exhausting under these baking
suns." He looks up at the sky, and then at the

fragrant arbour they have quitted. " That lemon
grove is not the sort of shade for heat like this ; the
pine wood over yonder would be much more to the
purpose. By-the-by, the town we passed through on
our way here yesterday lies, I think, in that direction.
We were under the trees, I think, for the greater
part of the road. I am afraid I must make my bow
to you for the present, Lady Laure, and screw up my
courage to the severe task of walking over there to
inquire after the rest of my luggage, which I directed
to be sent after me to the coach-office, or whatever
name they give to the place where the public conveyance
stops."

"It is already done," says Lady Laure, simply.
I gave Burton orders about it this morning."

Lady Laure was but just seventeen years old, and
something shy, at least with Mr. Lorraine ; but as
hostess she was quite at her ease, and played that part,
which, indeed, had been her position from her babyhood,
with all the graceful foresight and charming
irreverence of a matron of twice her years.

A thousand thanks ! But I am sorry to give
trouble."

Lorraine speaks with politeness; but he fails to
look so very much obliged. A gloom, or, at least, a
weariness settles upon his face. He was frank when
he exclaimed, "How soon one gets tired of most
things ! " If he had repeated the remark now,
candour, complete candour, would have compelled him

to add, even of a prolonged tete-a-Ute with a companion
lovely as Lady Laure Lucie !

In fact, the move from the citron grove was not
otherwise than strategic in this intention ; but Lorraine
at least deserved some credit for the offhand naturalness
with which he performed it.

CHAPTER II.

A FUNGUS.

The dyer's hand, the dyer's trade,

To its own hue subdued ;
And Shakespeare sings the man is made

The very thing he doeth ;
Thus sheepish grows the shepherd lout,

Habit o'er race prevailing ;
And brewers oft are extra stout,

And drunkards always ailing.

When they entered the garden paths between the
myrtle hedges, Lorraine fell a little behind Lady
Laure. He pushed his hair from his forehead, stopped
for a moment, took a long look right and left, and
another look full at the sun ; and the happy result of
these observations was that his face, under all circumstances
a pretty fair index of his mind, assumed at
once a less lugubrious expression.

"After all," thinks he to himself, "walking over
there in this heat would be a most tremendous bore,"
And hereupon he closes quickly up to his companion,
with his tactics altogether altered.

Really, Lady Laure, I owe much to your kindness

in sparing me this walk to that miserable little town
this afternoon."

There was all the difference of day and night,
between this tender of thanks and the other.

Lady Laure's pretty head turns over her shoulder,
with a sweet, graceful smile: it is her silent way of
expressing the pleasure she feels. So she smiles now ;
yet, then, she did not frown, for she is one of those
natures easy to please, hard to displease.

He, in his turn, gives a half smile, though more to
himself than to her, and chiefly with the feeling that
his natural indolence has had a happy escape. Then,
with one of those curious involutions of the mind,
common to all, yet hard to account for, he begins
playing with the bearings of a subject, from which, but
just now, another association of ideas had startled him
away with something very like a scare.

"You would make a capital soldier's wife. Lady
Laure," says he, holding open the glass door of the
centre sitting-room to let her pass through. "You
are so prompt ; up and off at a word."

"It does not take much thinking," she answers,
laughing, " to move from the garden into the house."

Well, no, not actually ; but it is a way with most
women to make little difficulties. I suppose it is
considered interesting; but not by me. It's one
reason why women in general go so against my grain ;
they are such actresses ! "

Lady Laure looks up with surprise written upon her

face. This very frank speaking ! What little experience
she has had of the polite phrases of mankind
is quite at variance with this new specimen of it.

Ah ! you look astonished. You don't know, Lady
Laure, that I pass for a regular Arson with your sex ;
they give me all sorts of hard names."

Lady Laure's face still bears the effects of his
previous speech.

Lorraine, to be sure, is an old friend, a very old
friend. " He never cares for no one " used to be
]Mrs. Prudence's verdict upon him in those old days ;
and he is not much changed, as Lady Laure said to
him a while ago. She can see this ; he was not a
person likely to change, and she admires him for it —
admires him in her secret heart for this, amongst
various other things, in which he seems to her quite
different, quite superior to the rest of his fellow men.
But now, this savage side of his manners, she has not
yet arrived at the point of thinking this perfection
along with the rest.

There's no concealing it," says he, laughing, and
clearly enjoying her perplexed looks, '* because, do as
I will, you'll be sure to find me out. I am a wretched
contrast to Lucie ; nothing: of the knight-errant or the
gallant troubadour about me." The mention of his
friend leads him back to talk of him again; it is
the one subject that seems to give him undisguised
pleasure. " Ah, Lucie ! There never was such a capital
Tallow in the world as Lucie I But his turning poet

is a poser to me. He was of such a practical turn of
mind, some things excepted, and they had nothing in
life to do with rhyming. You see, Lady Laure, I
can't see the connection, for instance, between toasted
cheese and the Muses. Now, for a sausage or a Welsh
rabbit, Lucie hadn't his match. Our suppers, with
Lucie for chef, were feasts to wonder at."

If he were only here, to hear you sing his praises! "
cries Lady Laure. " How much I wish it ! "

I'm sure I wish it too," responds Lorraine. " It
would make all the difference. I'd much rather have
his presence than his poem. When he comes. Lady
Laure, you shall study the poem, and I'll talk to the
author." As he speaks, Lorraine laughs again; his
good spirits are quite returned, and he seems also
quite unconscious that this last speech is again not the
most polite in the world, — to the lady, at least. Anyhow,
his next move is an act of attention — he draws a
lounge-chair close to her. " Won't you sit down ? " he
says. " It's hot enough in here too, in all conscience.
In India, with proper appliances, the heat is kept in
order; but in these enchanting European climates,
the indoors is invariably stuffy." Lorraine does not
concern himself to remember that the move to indoors
was his own proposal. He has the greatest regard for
this opinions, but few persons could be caught out
oftener, in two minds upon the same question. " I see,
Lady Laure, you don't object to heat ! " he adds,
languidly.

"I can bear it," she says, quietly. If she had
understood herself, she would have added, " axis I am
able to bear most other things in the world." But
Lady Laure's self-discoveries were to be made by
degrees, and assisted by circumstances and people, Mr.
Lorraine amongst others. "But in the afternoons
the breeze rises," she continues. " I think I can feel
it now."

Lady Laure was not mistaken, and the doors swept
to, as a proof of it.

You feel a breeze ! " replies Lorraine. " It's more
than I can do." And he throws himself upon a couch,
with a sigh of suffocation.

The fishermen here," she remarks, " have a pretty
plaintive little song when they want a breeze."

I wish to Heaven they'd sing it now, if it's efficacious.
It would be turning their plaintive ditties to
some good account ! "

I see, you despise all sorts of poetry."
Despise ! No ; that's a strong word, and I am prepared
to admire Lucie's at all risks. I always admired
everything he did and said ; he had me in perfect
leading-strings — the only person, by-the-by, who ever
had. And now, I haven't a doubt, when it comes to the
point, I shall not only knock under to his poetry, but
read it. Yes, Lucie and I never fell out ; we lived
together in all brotherly love, and I expect we shall
do the like when we meet now. Outside of Lucie, I
don't think I was very tractable — particularly the

VOL. I-1- D

reverse possibly ; but I put it down to those English
schoolmasters, that I turned out such an infidel inmost
things. They have a singular knack of setting
some fellows against rhyme and reason and all good
things, human and divine. They mar many a piece of
goods which, but for them, might have been worth
something. They know nothing of their raw material
or their proper tools, and yet against the practices of
their trade there's no appeal ; cut and dried creatures,
who treat boys like a Chinese puzzle — all's right that
squares, all's wrong that doesn't; creatures with no
margins and no india rubber in their composition. Now,
I love a good margin— for one thing, it lightens your
reading so unmistakably."

Lady Laure laughs merrily. " I wish Lucie could
hear your description," says she ; " but still, he liked
Eton."

Of course he did ; so did I. Liking has nothing
to do with it. And Lucie, no doubt, came out of it all
right; he was above it all, or it was all below him.

He just touched the earth with his feet ; his head-well,

I suppose it was in the heavens. There's no
occasion, you know, Lady Laure, to mount beyond our
atmosphere to be celestial."

*• Ah ! how glad Lucie will be to find you here ! "
cries Lady Laure. For herself, she scarcely follows
the drift of all this rattle ; but she is convinced that
Lucie will be delighted with it, and with his new-found
friend.

Lorraine puts his hand to his head in military
fashion. " Thanks, Lady Laure. This is compliment
number one, in spite of your protest just now."

She is not abashed now; the two are getting tu
understand each other apace.

No, indeed ; it is no compliment at all," she says,
with a pretty, serious smile.

You are looking forward so much to seeing him,
and I am sure this meeting will be quite as great a
pleasure to him ! "

Earnestness and serenity. Well, these two words
sum up pretty definitely the character of Lady
Laure.

Ah ! here comes my father," she cries. " He is
such a walker now. At home he always rides; but
I persuade him only to walk here — I am fearful of
these hills for him; and besides, there are no good
horses."

In the distance Lord Bellarmine is to be seen, a
packet of papers in his hand.

In spite of the sun, I see papa has been as far as
the town. He has got our letters," says Lady Laure.

Lorraine steps out of the open window, and meets
his host.

Ah ! Lorraine," says the earl. *• Glad to see you
looking settled down. As to your first idea of putting
up at the hotel over there, you don't know the distance
or the road as I do. I suspect in that case we shouldn't
have seen much of you ! It's an absurdity to call that

place an hotel, too — a mere hostelry. You wouldn't
have found anything like comfort at it. We were a
fortnight making this place habitable. And as to the
cookery — we won't talk of that ; it's too doubtful a
subject to discuss. Well, and what have you two been
doing with yourselves all the morning ? The worst of
this place is, you can never get upon a level ; up and
down for ever. It is a little trial to unaccustomed legs,
I can tell you ; and as to the riding and driving, they
are a little at the risk of your neck, it must be
granted."

"One doesn't want much exercise here," replies
Lorraine.

He waives the question, and notices only the
remark. He gives a quick look at the earl, as if to read
at a glance what he thinks of this tete-astute with his
daughter ; but the father's face expresses nothing but
frank good humour.

Ten years have lightly touched his friendly brow ;
his step is as firm, his voice as full as ever. He still
maintains his reputation as one of the handsomest
men of his time. He turns to his daughter with a
smile of affection — that smile which, above all others,
brightens up a loving father's face to the daughter he
is proud of.

I missed you, Laure, before I started ; and so I
went down to Mildew first, and made him my companion
to the town. We came back by the hills ; but
for his pilotage, I should have lost my way over andover

again. I may say Mildew missed you, in another
sense ; I made him a very poor substitute for you, my
dear."

Lorraine opens his eyes full wide ; he looks sideways
at the lady, but she answers readily —

"I am sorry you either of you missed me, but it
has almost been too hot to-day for walking. We have
been sitting for an hour in the citron grove, when we
got tired of looking at the peasants going to the fair."
Then she adds, by way of a comment upon these inactive
proceedings, "Mr. Lorraine, papa, can't bear
the heat ! "

JS^ot bear heat ! Why, bless me ! I thought you
had been in India, Lorraine."

Ah ! so I have ; six years of it and more. But
that's quite a different thing."

So I should think," said the earl, laughing.

"What treasure has Mr. Mildew found to-day?"
asks Lady Laure.

I am not prepared with names, Laure ; but he dug
up one plant which was quite new, at least to me.
The smell of it was intolerable, and he told me the
ancients were supposed to have used it much in
warfare."

And how was that ? " inquires Lorraine, with a
quizzical voice.

Oh, it was a perfectly simple stratagem," returns
the earl. " You had but to fling a few handfuls into
the enemy's camp, to put it altogether to the rout."

Your friend should make it a present to the peace
party; they might reconcile even their tender consciences
to this bloodless weapon. Did you say this
gentleman's name was Mildew ? "

Yes ; Mildew — Horace Mildew," answers the earl.

Lorraine's levity gets the better of him. "Any
relation to the family of the Fungi ? " he asks.

You shall make his acquaintance, and judge for
yourself."

"He is the dearest old man," says Lady Laure.

"Old! Luckiest old man, at any rate," rejoins
Lorraine, " to have such a tribute as this from a young
lady's lips. But I fear age is the whole gist of it. At
what age, other things being equal, may we younger
men begin to hope for such kind words ? "

Lorraine speaks with a smile, yet he feels — quite
unreasonably, since he is very indifferent how he
stands in Lady Laure's good graces — still he feels a
sort of irritation against this senile hero.

"Laure and Mildew," interposes the earl, "are
great allies, and age is by no means my friend's only
merit in her eyes, though, as you shrewdly remark,
Lorraine, it's a help to us, with young ladies — a help,
at least up to a certain point, to be on the wrong side
of fifty. As to Mildew, however, he is a man of many
attractions — mental attractions, I should say. He was
a handsome fellow once ; but his day for that is gone
by. What I was going to explain is, that he is a man
with a singularly accomplished mind, and, amongst

other things, a most charming walking companion.
He knows every plant and tree, crag and stone, rock
and cave, of these shores and hills ; so you see, Lorraine,
if you would rival him, you must begin by acquiring
his special recommendations. However, he began this
search into nature, as I have heard him say, among
his native mountains, in Northumberland, when he was
a mere boy."

"I am altogether cut out," is the young man's
reply. " What can a man do after twenty-five, if he
has begun to do nothing before it ? "

Do you call twenty-five too old to begin any new
thing ? " asks Lady Laure.

Lorraine answers with a laugh. " I am afraid
Lady Laure, my case is desperate ; I am clearly proved
at once too old and too young." He checks himself,
and turning to face Lord Bellarmine, he asks, " Who,
then, is this Mr. Mildew? Is he one of that august
body of wise men who have lately taken to digging
their learning out of the earth, — dry bones and
stones? It is a musty mania. And, pardon me, the
name sounds musty, too. So often trades and names
agree ; they attract or suggest each other. Builders
are Cubits, engravers Strong-i'-the-arm. A friend of
mine had a whole dictionary of these odd identities ;
he went about collecting them, just after the way of
your friend here, unearthing them in every hole and
corner."

Well, that amused your friend's fancy, no doubt,"

replies the earl. "But I claim for my friend's researches
more valuable results. You want to know,
then," he continues, " who Mr. Mildew is ? In the
first place, we were at college together; he was my
most intimate friend there — friend, in the fullest sense
of the word ; and I never regretted anything more
than losing sight of him absolutely, after a course of
Inly misfortunes, poor fellow, as I came to learn
liter, — just as one does lose sight, you know, Lorraine,
of one's early friends."

Ah ! " rejoins Lorraine, quickly ; "just as I have
lost sight of Lucie."

Happily for Lucie, he will have the pleasure,
Lorraine, of renewing his friendship with you, after
the break of but one decade. I should be afraid to
reckon up how many decades there are between the
day I parted from mildew at Oxford and the one in
which, by a mere chance, I discovered him here, a few
weeks ago. Thanks to Laure, I may say, for she it
was who brought my old friend to me, with all a
woman's instinct for what is good and valuable."

Lorraine lifts his eyebrows with the slightest
possible shade of inarticulate comment.

"I found him changed enough," the earl continues
; " but not changed in his intrinsic worth.
When you meet Mr. Mildew, Lorraine, you will
see an excellent and gifted man, devoted to science
and to his fellow-creatures — things which do not

usually go together. Here he is idolized by the
people. He has lived amongst them I should be
afraid to say how long — a quarter of a century and
more ; he gives them much good advice and care,
and I suspect supplements these with money he
can ill spare. His charitable work may not be all
in vain ; though, about here, they strike me as a
deplorable lot altogether. One positive benefit they
have gained from my friend at least, is the exercise
of his medical skill ; how acquired, I do not know —
probably it is instinctive, as it is with some. It is a
fact that twice a week his house is regularly besieged
like a country doctor's surgery. In short, after a
splendid start, and a crushing series of subsequent
misfortunes, he has known how to make of his life a
useful and a happy one. He is one of the very few
instances I have known, where the position of a small
independence, without a profession, has not proved a
disadvantage."

Ah ! quite true," says Lorraine, musingly. " It's
not a bad thing to have to work for your bread. It
makes all the difference to useless fellows like me.
I'm sick of the army, and fit for nothing else. Yet, I
think I shall throw it up and encounter the disadvantages
of doing nothing."

Come to me," says the earl, " when we get back
to England. If this Ministry stays in, I think I can
find you a post and work."

Lorraine answers, with one of his half-smiles, " The
worst of it is, I am not willing to work."

Time to talk it over, Lorraine," rejoins the earl,
good humoured y ; " and now, I am ready for dinner ;
I don't know what you are; and our hours here are
early."

CHAPTER III.

TO-DAY And TO-MORROW.

Ah ! God knows,
It rains and blows,
The heavens are dark to-day.
Heed it not ;
'Tis soon forgot.
When suns are bright.
And skies are light,
To-morrow sings roundelay.

Ah ! God knows,
Man swears and vows,
With a storm of sighs to-day.
Heed it not ;
'Tis soon forgot.
When smiles are bright.
And hearts are light,
Tomorrow sings roundelay.

ViLOTA DI VeXEZIA.

The calendar set forth that the year was near to its
close, and midwinter at hand ; yet a traveller, who had
lost his reckoning, arriving just now at this southern
bay, might well have taken the season to be midsummer.
The ground was cracked and crumbling, the
leaves were dusty and withering, the watercourses
were still rivers without water. The nights were warm,
the evenings clear, and each morning the white mists

rolled away, like a veil from the face of beauty, leaving
the earth all aglow beneath a cloudless sun.

But one day, not so very long after Lady Laure
and her companion had taken that improvised siesta
in the citron grove, the inevitable change came, not
with the gradual advance of day to day, but with that
suddenness which belongs to all things Southern,
whether men, women, or skies.

It came, with the reversal of all fine weather prognostic.
In the half-light before the dawn, coast-line
and mountain-peak stood out sharp and clear ; but as
the sun came up, there came also a cloud following
close upon its path. It darkened the golden line
along the weaves, it swept into the shore, it crept up
the hill-sides, it gathered to it all the vapours of the
earth, it grew blacker and bigger, till it hid the
mountains, shut out the headlands, and hung over
the visible world like a leaden shroud.

The land was wrapped in gloom. The sea alone
lay gleaming, like a fantastic mirror of many colours,
becalmed but threatening ; for as yet the wind was
only felt in the gusts that went moaning and shivering
through the woods and groves.

Abroad betimes in this murky morning, a hale
man, of middle age, staff in hand, stands amid the
broken masses of the bold heights that dominate the
villa, upon the green promontory. It is a lofty vantage-ground,
but a very narrow look-out post to-day, when
the lower earth is wrapt in clouds, and even the village,

which is set sky-high, just below his feet, is densely-hidden
from his eyes.

Up here it is rough walking, and, what with clouds
and crags, there is not much to guide the steps. But
our pedestrian is sure of his way ; he takes the zigzag
line warily between the jagged peaks that rise about
him, high above his head, and, descending always, he
goes forward, till, by a sudden turn of the flank of a
huge boulder, he conies at once upon the village street,
which abruptly ends at the base of it.

This is not just such a roadway as a carriage and
pair could take conveniently. It is rather an irregular
line of slabs, after the fashion of a staircase, partly
hewn, partly built up, twisting as it can, between the
houses, where the roof of one is often on a level with
the basement of another. Now it is a short bore
through the ruck itself; now the rude masonry of
some partition wall is broken through to give it
passage ; and again it is partially blocked and bridged
over by the sheds which serve as stabling to a few
mules — the only beasts of burden equal to these
high ways — two or three pine logs, with a big stone
to keep them steady, jammed in from eaves to eaves,
give at once a ready roofing. The houses are not high,
but their upper floors project so far that the twelve
feet or so of street below is only half lit even at midday.
The smaller passage-ways wind in and out in
absolute darkness, till they come at a turn suddenly
into the full light — and, perhaps, to the edge of a

precipice. The whole clustering, clinging mass of
human dwellings resembles nothing so much as a
monster oyster-bed, where moving and breathing space
is the last thing to be considered.

Lower down indeed by many yards, where the*
church stands, with its piazzas and ramparts, and
other surroundings, appearances are more inviting ;
but up here it is no surprise to find the houses empty
by day, and at night — such nights as the South alone
can boast — to see their owners sometimes taking a
lodging by preference at the Moon's inn.

This morning, however, no one is abroad. The
people are stirring, but they have got no further than
their doorways. In these they are huddled together,
some on the ground, some up behind, head above
head ; there is little to see but a crowd of upraised
laces peering dismally at the narrow slit of sky above.

Planting his start" well in advance before each step,
the pedestrian comes firmly and quickly down the
steep little street. But he is soon stopped by th<-
people, who come confidingly about him, pouring into
his ears their lamentations.

Ah ! good master. See ! it comes ! "

Ah ! God ! what a time it will be for us ! "

The answer is given in their own rustic dialect, and
with a full and friendly voice. " Yes, friends, the kind
heavens promise us rain at last ! "

A peasant youth throws up his arms with an action
of despair.

But, 3Iatto, you would not have the olives perish ?
My children, you should be thankful, and Ml of joy.
I tell you this every year ; and every year when the
rain has fallen, and you see all things green and growing,
then you do rejoice. Why not take it cheerfully
beforehand ? "

'• It is hard upon us, Patron men," says a young
woman. " We must work all the same, we poor women,
work and wash, rain or shine."

"She says the truth," whines a crouching old
creature, so grizzly and withered that she might have-been
the great-grandmother of the whole community
*•' It is a hard world for us when the sun shines, and
when the rain falls it is hell itseK."

She rocks in her arms a wizen little infant, and the
wind and the babe wail in unison together. The men
are more silent ; they shiver and shake, and mutter an
interjection, as an expression of their feelings.

Come, come ! " cries their friend. " Why shiver
so ? You are none of you a-cokl, and you must know,
as well as I do, that the fruits are dropping off for
want of this precious rain ; the earth is dried up, and
cracking under our feet. But now, if it comes " — he
looks up — "and, thanks to God, there is little doubt
of it — then by tomorrow this dry earth will be changing
into a gay paradise, Rosetta ! "

Paradise ! " echoes the old crone, whose misnomer
was Rosetta. '* And what then, 3Ionsu ? Shall we not
have to crawl for weeks on the wet earth after the olives.

48 PRINCE FORTUNE AND PRINCE FATAL.

twisting up our poor bones ? " See here ! " and she
stretches out her arm, showing its distorted joints.
No, no," she croaks ; " we are none the better for the
rain, none the richer, no good to us ; no more paj^,
gather in the wet, or gather in the dry ! "

'*' That is a bad thought, Rosetta," is her counsellor's
grave reply.

A ragged old man, in indescribable patches, stands
leaning his chin upon a long club stick, and looking
gloomily upwards. He has not the air of the rest of
the people ; there is something still more Southern in
his eye, something cosmopolitan in his bearing. He has
the stamp of the travelling mendicant, but he looks as
if he thought it a favour to take your alms. He has a
fine face, in spite of its stains and lines, and his words
come forth with the refinement of a tongue which has
nothing to do with the peasant's patois.

"To-day," says he, "the signer will not have to
tramp it, as I must do, soaked to the skin ; he will not
have to go knee-deep through the river-beds ; he will
not break his neck or his legs on the wet rocks. It
matters little to me," he adds, with an inimitable sneer,
as the Excellent knows, what the paradise is ; but
they do tell us vines and olives grow there without
rain ! "

"I don't know about that," says the pedestrian,
laughing ; " but I do know that I am likely to get a
soaking as well as you, Signor Tommaseo. How long
have you been back amongst us ? Did you deliver that

letter which my good Caterina gave into your hands
for her mother ? "

Signor Tommaseo answers only by a sulky drop of
the head.

That's well, good friend. You have, no doubt, news
for Caterina. Do not forget, if you are passing, to call
in at the Villa Bianca."

Little fear of that ! " says one man to another in
the background.

But at this moment, with a great swirl in the air,
the rain-drops begin to fall fiercely through the narrow
slit over their heads; the wind suddenly rouses to a
tornado; the houses creak and rattle, and down the
narrow ways the blast drives as through so many
funnels, and with a violence, that threatens to take the
people off their feet.

The good Patron, as the peasants call him, does not
stop for shelter. He waves his hand to his rustic friends ;
speaking, to be heard, is out of the question — but, in
fact, there is no one left to speak to, he has the street
to himself. At the first trumpet note of the storm the
peasants fall back, as if for dear life, into their dark
(lens. There, with their rueful grimaces, they will
shiver and lament, till their brief trial is over; — to
make things within doors a little better does not enter
into their ideas. Soon the sun must shine again, and
with this bounteous sunshine comes all the good and
ease life has to give them.

Later in this same day, looking a little as if he
VOL. I. E

had just escaped from drowning, the friendly monitor
of these shivering peasants walks into the hall of Lord
Bellarmine's villa.

In the doorway stands Lorraine, smoking a cigarette.
The introduction must have taken place, for he greets
the new-comer with, "Good morning, Mr. Mildew.
Fine day!"

Very fine, in a certain sense," is the answer.
The natives are not of our opinion," says Lorraine,
laughing. " They don't seem to see it at all. What
poor devils they are ! I've been watching that fellow
there, chopping the wood for a fire we are going to
set up, chopper in one hand, umbrella in the other."

You will see most of our out-of-door operations so
arranged whilst the rain lasts."

Well, I shall be off if it goes on. I can't stand
the wet in a place like this ! " and Lorraine throws
away his cigar end and yawns.

Mr. Mildew looks quickly at him with a cheerful
air. " Ah ! indeed. Well, you certainly could not do
better. But our rustic friend there can't cut his
Gordian knot in your pleasant fashion, so he betakes
himself to his umbrella."

"Old bear!" is Lorraine's mental ejaculation.
How he encourages me to depart ! I'll stay, if it's
only to disappoint him."

By this time it was, indeed, a deluge. Through the
air, and upon the earth, the rain in floods poured,
hissed, and eddied; down every gules and path it

frothed and foamed and forced itself, tearing up the
ground like a river-bed. But not a drop is stationary ;
every little stream rims into a bigger one, and big and
little hurry down to the sea.

"If this goes on," says Lorraine, "we shall have
that village up there tumbling about our ears, unless
we are clean washed off first into the water. I don't
suppose there are many swimmers amongst us. By-the-by,"
turning to Mr. Mildew, "are you wet? Will
you have anything dry? You seem pretty well
drenched."

"I'll just give my overcoat and hat to Sabine,
thank you. The inner man is pretty dry."

Mr. Mildew retires with the waiting-maid into a back
lobby. He is evidently an lictbitue of the villa, for
when he reappears he is dry-shod, and with altogether
a more presentable appearance. As he enters the
parlour Lady Laure gets up, and comes forward to
him, with kindly effusion —

How good of you to come to us in all this rain !

But now, you are not to go away any more to-day ;

you are to stay and dine, and we have bedrooms dirt

plenty, as you know. Indeed, I wish the dinner were

as sure as the bedrooms." Lady Laure speaks the last

sentence disjointed. " Really," she says quickly, as

if resolved to out with her difficulty — " really, I don't

know if we are to have any dinner to-day ! My maid

tells me that Sabine says, she for her part, would

rather go without her dinner than go out and order it

I. -j-

UBRAR^

^JS:vERsn.onamo.s

in the rain, and none of the people have come up here
from the town to-day."

Lorraine laughs.

I really am serious, mr. Lorraine. I am sure you
wouldn't like not to have any dinner."

It is positively serious, Lady Laure ; I don't deny
it. And you judge me rightly. The man who despises
his dinner is not fit to live."

Well, I am sure I don't know how you will get
one to-day." Lady Laure walks to the window and
leans her head pensively against it. The driving rain
effectually prevents her seeing half a dozen inches
beyond it.

I have it ! " cries Lorraine, and he starts gaily
towards the door. " ITl take a basket, and go down to
the town. It's a capital idea ; it will fill up the morning.
And you'll see, I'll cater like a very maitre
d'hdteir

I advise you to borrow the woodcutter's umbrella,"
says Mr. Mildew, drily.

It's large enough to shelter a colony. I wonder
what he'll take for the hire of it. But now, where's the
basket ? " and Lorraine looks round the room. " This
is too small ; we should starve with this," and he
points to Lady Laure's dainty bookcase.

Lady Laure laughs. " But you are not serious ? "

Did not Lady Laure say she was serious ? AVe
are all serious," says he, with an air of mock gravity.
*^ For myself, I never was so serious in my life. Think

what is at stake ' Conceive what our feelings will be,
let alone our tempers, when about four o'clock we shall
be staring into each other's faces, dinnerless ! "

The earl was in the room, but sitting with his back
to the party, before a table in the furthest comer of it,
wading through a pile of business papers.

Lorraine walks briskly up to the table. " Can you
tell me, my lord, where there's a basket to be found ? "

A basket, Lorraine ! I really don't know ; I
never had a basket. You must ask Laure." Turning
round to Lady Laure. " Laure, have you a basket ? "

Lady Laure, laughing still, shakes her head.

I should think it possible that the servants may
have one, my love. No doubt; indeed, when one
comes to consider it, they must have a basket. Being
and ask for one, Lorraine."

I'll go and see, myself." And, waving an adieu
to Lady Laure, Lorraine disappears.

Laure," says the earl, " what does Lorraine want
with a basket ? "

Lady Laure's lips and eyes are still full of the
merriment of the joke, and even sir. mildew's risible
muscles are involuntarily affected.

I believe, papa, he wants to go and buy us some
dinner. I really think we should stop him. See how
it rains ! "

Buy us dinner ! " and the earl stops amazed.
Why should Lorraine buy the dinner, my dear
child ? "

Oh, I mean fetch it, bring it."

Fetch it — fetch the dinner ! Are we all gone a
little out of our minds, this rainy day ? "

That is the very thing," cries Lady Laure. " But
I forgot. Of course, you have not heard what we have
been saying. It is the rain, all through the rain,
papa. You see, it is so wet ; the tradespeople have not
come up from the town to-day, and are not likely to
come, the servants say ; and I am sure Burton would
be cross all the time we are here, if he were sent out,
even in a little shower; and Jenkins, though she is
not exactly disobliging, says she has a most dreadful
cold ; and as for Sabine and Maddelena, they say they
would rather do anything than go out in this storm ;
and as for Giause, he is busy cutting wood under an
umbrella, and besides, he can only speak jyatois^ and
can't understand us." Lady Laure finished by looking
extremely concerned. " It is really, after all, no joke,
papa," says she.

The earl is laughing too heartily to reply at once.
But, my dear Laure, what do you call a joke, then ?
Upon my word, I congratulate you upon your effective
staff. But don't look so pitiably anxious, my
darling. If we do fast to-day, our penance will not
be through any fault of yours." But still the earl's
laugh goes on.

Ah ! papa," says Lady Laure, " you laugh now ;
but what shall we do at dinner-time ? Sabine says we
had the last cutlets at breakfast." Lady Laure sighs.

Of course," she adds, half to herself, " Mr. Lorraine's
going means nothing."

He is gone, at any rate ; by this time he is well
on his way. But you mustn't expect to see him back
just directly; it's heavy walking against wind and
rain." This comes from Mr. Mildew.

Gone, actually ! " exclaims Lady Laure.

Gone," replies Mr. Mildew, " with the basket, and
without the umbrella. I saw him myself cross the
garden."

"And just see how it rains!" cries Lady Laure,
with every sign of increased concern.

"It won't do him any harm. Lady Laure," is the
unmerciful rejoinder. " Getting a good wetting and a
good walk is better for him, than lounging about all
day in the house against his will. He was chafing at
his imprisonment when I came in just now, with all an
Englishman's impatience."

Ah ! but he is not an Englishman, he is an Irishman,"
says Lady Laure, her eyes fixed anxiously upon
the shower-bath outside.

Lady Laure's clenching argument brings a rallying
retort from Mr. Mildew.

"Well, my dear young lady, Irish skins are, at
least, as thick as English ones."

His mother, 1 fancy, was Spanish," says the earl.

"Ah!" returns Mr. Mildew, "that is explanatory."
He stops to think. " A mixed descent." He goes on.
For myself, I am in favour of pure races, as far as one

can get them — a prejudice, I see, not shared by you,"
and lie looks straight at Lady Laure.

There was nothing so very personal to her in his
speech, but she colours up significantly.

I can assure you. Mildew," says the earl, who has
not been able to settle back to his papers, "that
Lorraine is a capital young fellow. Indeed, you must
be aware I shouldn't have asked him to join us if he
wasn't ; nor is he a stranger to us at all. You see, he
was Lucie's old Eton chum, and was often with him in
vacation at Bellarmine. I shall be delighted to seethe
two together again. There's something so reasonable
about Lorraine. Now, you'd never find him fishing in
troubled waters; he has too much ballast here," and
the earl taps his forehead. Then he adds, casually,
"He is a nephew of that eccentric man, Sir Loftus
Lorraine, of Loughmore — his heir, indeed. It is one
of the finest estates in Ireland, and perfectly unencumbered.
I have heard it is quite a principality."

Ah ! indeed," says Mr. Mildew ; and he fixes his
eyes upon a distant point of sight, and falls into a
profound silence.

The outcome of this wet day was a sensible advance
towards intimacy in Lorraine's relations with the earl
and his daughter. Trifling as were its incidents, they
effectually broke up what ice there was left to break.
He had returned from his foraging raid in much
triumph, with a troop of ragamuffins, whom he had
impressed into his service, bearing his spoils. Upon

these spoils they had dined "superbly," as the earl
remarked ; "and quite in spite of the weather," says he.

"And so well chosen," says Lady Laure. "And
this mutton ; how could you find mutton ? We are
so tired of that never-ending veal."

"A maitre lionel spoilt," cries the earl. "We'll
drink his health all round in a bumper of this Asti."

The friendly hilarity of the dinner could not be
surpassed. Mr. Mildew alone ate his food in silence ;
but, except in a tete-astute, he inclined that way. Even
the skies shared the smiling good humour of the rest
of the hearty. And by the close of the afternoon, the
clouds had cleared away, and the sun burst out with
his farewell rays aslant the western mountains.

Bless me ! " exclaims the earl ; " there's the sun
again. After his eclipse to-day, we know how to value
him." He gets up and throws open the windows, and
walks out. " Come out, all of you," he cries ; " this is
splendid."

Lady Laure prepares to obey the call, but Lorraine
recommends a shawl. And with an empressement of
politeness not quite usual with him, he hastens away
to discover one at the hands of Mrs. Jenkins.

You will come too ? " says Lady Laure, addressing
Mr. Mildew, who stands risen, but not stirring from his
place, looking on with a sternness gathering about his
mouth, whilst Lorraine, with a mock awkwardness, is
prolonging the operation of wrapping the shawl he has
brought round Lady Laure's graceful shoulders.

Mr. Mildew gives a quiet sign in the negative.

But Lady Laure will not have this silent man left
out of their doings. With her sweet voice she begs
so kindly. " Do come," says she ; " it is so refreshing
after dinner."

So he yields and comes up, meeting her soft blue
eyes with the sternness changed to a regretful smile.

You know it so well," says Lorraine, accounting
in his way for the reluctance.

I know it so well," echoes Mr. Mildew, absently.

It was, in truth, a glorious and reviving sight.
The earth bright, and glistening with every shade
from purple to green ; the mountain line, all cloudless
now, chiselled against the reflected glow ; the sea in
the creek deep dyed in crimson, the blood of many
slain might have been mingled with its waters.
Beyond the red pool a line of indigo dark as the
grave ; and again, where the shadows ceased, opal and
yellow lighting up the shining sea till it faded into
the violet horizon.

"Get something for your head, Laure," says the
earl, turning to his daughter. "Take a short walk,
my love; you look a little tired, I think, with this
day's close confinement, or it may be it is this glare
which affects my eyes; but, anyhow, a walk can do
you no harm. Lorraine will escort you, whilst Mildew
and I have a bout of chess."

It is very good of Lord Bellarmine to trust you
to my care, Lady Laure," says the young man, a
furtive smile playing about his lips.

Lady Laure walks beside him, looking at the lovely
sky. "I often go out here quite alone," says she,
"though in Italy, you know, one cannot do it. My
father knows that I can take care of myself."

Hum ! There now, with a word you have taken
down all my pride."

What pride ? " asks she.

"The pride," answers he, "that every man must
feel who is permitted the honour of a tete-tete walk
with Lady Laure Lucie."

"We have made Mr. Mildew exceedingly proud,
then," and Lady Laure laughs gaily; "for he has
walked with me every day till lately." Now Lady
Laure falls into a slight confusion, whilst she adds,
"Now, of course, that you are here, my father is so
glad to have him for his game of chess."

Worse and worse," cries Lorraine. " Why, I am
clearly nothing better than a makeshift ! Lady Laure,
who taught you to mix such bitter with the sweet ? "

Lady Laure glances up at his semi-serious face.
Hers wears its frequent puzzled look.

I wonder," says Lorraine, at last, after a deliberate
pause, "if you could enlighten me a little further.
I believe we are all of the fungus species — we men, at
least; but can you tell me the exact odds between a
young mushroom and an elderly toadstool ? "

"What can you mean?" says she. "I do not
understand."

Don't you ? Ah ! quite right ! Nor do I exactly.
But what opinion I have makes me think, that there
must be all the difference in the world ; " — a favourite
formula with Lorraine when he wishes to express things
limitless.

How wonderfully everything has dried up ! " says
Lady Laure, as they came back by the mountain-path.
" But for the freshness, you would hardly know
that the rain had fallen."

So it is with time. Lady Laure, leaving out the
freshness. See Lucie and the poets on the subject.
What we feel to-day we forget tomorrow."

But do we forget ? " says she.

I suppose we do. I do," he adds, coolly.

I do not, I am sure," she answers, quickly.

"Well," says he, "it depends a little upon what
we have got to forget, or rather to remember. Besides,"
he continues, looking at her, " you and I are essentially
different. By rights, therefore, we should agree;
that's the rule, you know. Lady Laure."

Lady Laure laughs and says, " Is it ? "

Yes ; did you never hear it ? "

"You and Lucie, then, who are so very different,
will be certain to agree ? "

Quite certain to agree ; but not because of this
rule or that, but because there are affections which,
once formed, nothing can disturb, nothing can change."

Then we think alike, after all," rejoins Lady
Laure ; " for that is exactly what I feel to be true."

Forgive me ! " But there Lorraine stops. He turns
half round to his companion, his hand out ; — he keeps
her back for a moment. " Let me, Lady Laure, add
this amendment, which I believe to be also unalterably
true — there are affections, which on the contrary, can
do nothing but change."

Not real affections," she cries.

"Well — passions, then." Lorraine speaks with
something of an interjection. Then he drops his hand
and walks on, and lowers his voice to another tone.
** But," says he, " from your own standpoint. Lady
Laure, your argument is quite sound. Of the passions,
let me think, you know nothing. Believe me, such
ignorance is bliss."

Half his time, whatever he said, Lorraine might betaken
to be more in jest than in earnest. Now, to
look at him and listen to him, you would have said
he was more in earnest than in jest. He was, indeed,
far too earnest to be like himself. It might have
been the Asti ; these foaming wines move the spirits
capriciously, and make the gay sad, and the grave
gay. There is besides the proverb, " In vino Veritas."

Lady Laure had no reply to give. She knew not
why ; but this fine analysis of passion and affection

touched lier almost to tears. And Lorraine, when he
chose to use it, had a fine, full pathos in his voice,
which came, indeed, from the simple advantage of a
broad chest and sound lungs, but which struck on the
ear with a cadence, as if springing from a deeper
source.

You are tired. Lady Laure," says he, for her hand
trembles, as he takes it to help her to mount the
broken flight of steps below the garden.

Perhaps I am," she answers.

Like many other things, this walk began more
gaily than it ended. It might have been Lorraine's
fault, with his jest and earnest, or it might have been
inevitable — due, alas! to that disheartening dualism,,
to that bitter-sweet, that surgit mari aliquid, which
is the inseparable concomitant of every mortal delight.

CHAPTER IV.

CHANCE AND DOOM.

In my right hand let me take heart and soul,

And let me bare them to the light of day,

And let me to my Judge, in calmness, say,

Behold me as I am ! — a lump of clay ;

Thrust here and there, as Chance and Fate control."

But ful of shame and hate let me be not :
Shame for myself — hate for the things that be.
For what I am and must be, what my lot
Full well of all this doom my Judge doth wot.
So leave I in His hands my destiny.

Claude Lorraine at twenty-five was practically what
the earl described when he spoke of a " poor man with
a small competence and nothing to do;" for he held
on to his profession now, too loosely for it to be counted
for anything, but a possible alternative to absolute
idleness. But to this small competence there was
the important addition of great expectations — a very
substantial encouragement to the idleness.

These expectations came to him by the way of a
collateral inheritance through his father, younger and
half-brother to Sir Loftus Lorraine, the present possessor
of Castle Loughmore — that "principality" of

which Lord Bellarmine spoke in terms of so much
consideration to jMr. Mildew.

Sir Claude, the father of these two brothers, had
lived the jovial life of the period to which he belonged ;
he had lived likewise to a good old age, his joviality
not shortening his days ; so that when Sir Loftus, the
son by his first marriage, came in for the family
honours, he was already well advanced in life. Unmarried,
silent, and secluded ; hating men, and hating
women more ; his eccentric habits and unsociable way
of life had long set the imaginative but untaught
world about Castle Loughmore upon inventing a
variety of marvellous histories to account for peculiarities
decidedly not hereditary.

The agency of nameless powers was freely hinted
at, the favourite theory being that the heir of Lough-more
was nothing but a changeling brought by the
malicious Fir Doicha in dead of night, whilst mothers
nurse were wrapt in their slumbers.

But in less rustic quarters a more intelligible tale
was accepted. It was said that while still a youth. Sir
Loftus had been crossed in love, had shot his rival in
not too fair a fight, and all to no purpose, since the
woman they both loved went mad and died with the
shock of the tragic event. Whatever may have been
the particulars of the affair, it was of certain knowledge
that the fierce passions he was born with suddenly
subsided into a gloomy misanthropy ; and that from
youth to middle age he led a morose and unprofitable

life, associating with no one, avoiding the convivial
company which gathered round his father, and spending
his days, sitting alone with vacant hands and eyes,
or hunting, without gun or rod, the covers and shores
of their wild glens and lakes. But his aversion to his
fellow-creatures went no further than avoidance ; with
so much of the raven in his habits, the dove, as far as
his harmlessness went, might have stood for the type
of his doings.

Yet with the people he would have been less an
object of dread if he had kept to the role of violence
with which he began. As they took it, there was no
mystery and much excuse in that sort of thing ; but
for a melancholy, lonely creature like this, wandering
about without a word for any one, and with a power
of money at his back, if he wasn't the spawn of the
Fir Doicha, he must have come in for somebody's
curse, and that was to the full as bad for his fellow-creatures,
as for himself.

Now, curses, and even evil wishes — which are to
be classed in the category of curses — were of a
singular and capricious nature in this part of the
country ; they might hang over you for years before
they struck home, they might be intercepted by the
wrong man, they might involuntarily be passed on
from one to another. With these articles of faith in
the matter of curses, and with the general sentiments
in this particular case, it followed quite reasonably
that there was not a peasant in the district at critical
VOL. I-I- F

times and seasons, such as Midsummer's Eve, or when
the moon was in her horns, or when a birth was expected,
or a bargain to be struck, who would not go
any distance round, rather than run the risk of encountering
the dark brow and downcast face of Loftus
Lorraine.

Thus shunned and shunning, a more solitary-existence
at large is scarcely to be conceived. But Sir
Loftus had a speciality in this way, and when the old
squire came to die, he contrived to make his isolation
still more complete and systematic. Gates were nailed
up, foot-paths closed, doors and windows barred and
bolted, and three parts of the great house permanently
shut up.

The women were sent off in a flock ; Sir Loftus
would have in his service male servants only, and of
these the smallest allowable staff must answer for all
purposes. With his father expired the single sympathy
that seemed to unite him to the rest of
humanity. It vias a feeling that could scarcely be
called an affection ; it was rather a morbid worship of
everything in life that he himself was not.

If at a hazard the two met — the father and the son
the father, with his ringing voice, his gay, "Well,
Loftus, my boy," his open eye, his head up, his full
step, his sporting dress, at his button-hole the never-absent
myrtle sprig, which gained for him, with his
picturesque-tongued people, the fancy title of "Lord
Myrtle ; " the son, shabby and slouching, would hurry

by without a word, and with just a scant glance at the
fine, jubilant face, smiling so broadly at him. But once
past, if no one was there to see, he would stop and
turn and follow the robust figure with strange softened
eyes, and stand and watch till it was lost to his view.
Then, with its going, he would take back the old,
hard, haggard look, like a mask of the dead, and enter
again into the stone world of his estrangements and
his antipathies.

Very deep, and Tery far off in this stone world
did he place his half-brother MichaeL Fnjm the
first, he set his face so persistently against him,
that it was a common word that Lofhis did not
know michael by sight. And Michael desired nothing
better. In the direst contrast, madcap and scapegrace,
brimming over with mirth and mischief, from his
birth — which cost his mother her life — he grew up
the idol of his father, the plaything of servants and
friends ; indulged, admired, and spoiled by every one
but his gloomy brother, at the bare shadow of whose
grim presence, as a matter of course, he took to his
heels. But michael's sunny days at Loughmore were
numbered.

With Sir Claude's death, the rude change that
set in was altogether insupportable to his younger
son. Xor did Sir Loftus show any inclination to
make things more endurable to him ; and when, as
an inevitable finish, Michael went off from his home,
with a loud yow never to see it again till he came

back its master, Sir Loftus, in his turn, registered a
silent one, to live out his life, if only to keep Lough-more
out of his reckless hands, — and from the bottom
of his soul he wished him God speed to a returned
distance !

To this returned distance Michael went away with
little of a broken heart. He knew his own mind, and
without more ado, with his mother's little fortune, of
which he had the control, bought himself a commission
and entered the army; and, as things were,
a wiser head could not very well have improved upon
the step.

Michael Lorraine, though little more than a lad,
was very well prepared for the rough life of a marching
regiment. Effeminacy had made no part of his
spoiling. Before he was scarce out of his petticoats he
had taken a fence at the side of his father ; he could
swim and wrestle and bring down a cock as warily a&
the oldest hand of the lot. The roistering elements
of the military life of those days came quite naturally
to him, and gave full vent to his headlong tastes. He
was happy as a king, or rather a great deal happier.
Nothing checked his spirits or cooled his courage, and
in the midst of the new excitements there was no time
to fret about the lost pleasures and pastimes of the old
life, or the little love left behind him in the old home ;
and when the route came for Gibraltar, he, for one
found nothing to complain of.

On the Rock, " Mad Michael," as he was not unfitly

called, soon became a favourite ; he kept every one
alive with his capital voice and his rollicking Irish
songs and his perfect good humour, and with his crazy
doings, into the bargain — the craziest being the running
off from the mainland with an Andalusian beauty,
barely fifteen, and making her his wife.

He had not much difficulty in arranging his misdemeanour
with the spiritual and temporal powers in
authority over his Spanish lady love. At the tag end
of a great war, things have got into loose gear, and
take some years to get back to order ; and, moreover,
the Rock was not the most accessible spot to be reached
by an " angry father."

Amongst his comrades, the juniors cheered him on,
and envied him his luck. The superiors shook their
heads, but they could not get much further in their
wise chiding, so gay and beautiful were the young
couple — a mere boy and girl, laughing and loving all
the hours round, not knowing how to take their
buoyant lives mirthfully enough; wasting upon dull
care no moments of their blooming age ; not hoping,
not fearing, giving no heed to what men mean by
taking thought.

A poor, childish pair ! making their start together,
with no ballast but saucy joys and frolicksome jests.
But they went only a little way. It may have been
that Heaven took pity upon such Golden Youth ;
for " whom the gods love die young," was sung by
poets and said by sages long ago. Yet 'tis a hard

saying, — hard to prove. It has a despairing ring in
it, as it echoes down from the old Pagan hopelessness,
and, even with the hopefulness that some of us have
now, it is a Good, which at best, if existence on this
planet has any meaning at all, can be but an exceptional
one, on all its sides.

But these things need not be meddled with, since
they do not make clearer, but rather lend a confusion,
with their " whys " and " wherefores," to the brief tale
of these smiles and kisses, which lasted just long enough
to usher our hero into this troublesome world, and then
came to a sharp close between two dawns, with a malignant
fever. It has a tragic sound about it, but the
joyous young father and mother laughed on, to the
end.

*'He makes believe to die," sighed the girl; "but
I shall shake him out of his game." And then she
sickened.

When he wakes, I will be dead too ! " and the
little head, with its heavy black tresses, drooped down.
And so the twain passed from their playful humours
into a solemn eternity.

Of such an early doom, one may say — Few of us
do better ! — and another — Many better have died —

"Such Patroclus list gestorben,
Und-war mer als du ! "

And again a third may cry — What matter ! day by
day, so many come, so many go ! — Kismet.

Perchance one sheds a tear, and this is better;

though it availed not to the dead ; still it is better : —
for the dead are holy.

It was a time of trouble all round. The sickness did
not stop with its first victims. Even nature sickened.
The clouds hung low, but could not break into the
blessed rain. In the stifled sunshine there was a
deadly heat, and the Rock, with its great mass, seemed
all a-fire. The level tracts, behind far away, sent up
a malarious vapour ; a blue mist hung over the cork
forests ; no stir in the air, no freshening breeze ; all
things flagging, withering, dying. And the men
were dying too, and the children and the mothers,
dropping off daily ; and in the midst of all this
stricken state, was one forlorn little life — Mad Michael
Lorraine's orphan boy.

Where the lot is cast together in a narrow space,
human feelings expand the wider, grow the keener,
both the cruel and the kind ; and now, though many
hearts were aching for the lives that were gone or
might go, there was not one that was not touched with
pity for the little life but just come.

What was to come of it ? The chances were all
against it. Better if the feeble thread were snapped at
once, with the wild blood that ran in its veins, and with
only the misanthrope of Loughmore, in the way of
home and kindred, across the seas !

Thus did these kind souls make their sad auguries,
and, with eyes moist with compassionate forebodings,
calculate the chances of this young life.

Mais, la destined a ses intentions.

The book of fate is, indeed, open to us all, but it
can be read but one way — backwards ; and human
prescience in human affairs is a poor thing, since above
all the calculable chances, stands the great factor
Chance, of which there is no predicate save the unexpected.
It would, in truth, have taken a very
sanguine seer to divine that this feeble and fatherless
babe, lying helpless in the lap of destiny, had come
into the world with such a rebound off misfortune that,
like some comets we are told of, it had no choice thereafter,
but to maintain its course in the same happy
hyperbole to the very end.

Its helplessness was all on its side, for the Fortunate
need no exercise of " disastrous will " — they have no
hand in that decree, which allots to them a Country in
every Land.

But to return to events — to the orphan and his
friends.

Better it had never been born. This was the theory
of these good people ; but to this theory their practice
was entirely opposed, and everything was done that
could be done to cherish the infant and to prolong its
life. And to this rash work, considering what might
come of it, all contributed after their means. A soldier's
widow, whose child and husband had both died of the
epidemic, did not wait to be sought out, but out of

pure love offered herself as nurse, aud took the babe
to her aries with tears of consolation. Every man was
its Father — you might have said, its Mother — so tender
was the interest in this Child of the Regiment. But the
constancy of these kind hearts was not to be put to any
lengthy test.

An early post brought a handsome sum of money,
and a briefly worded letter from the master of Lough-more,
desiring that child and nurse should be forwarded
without delay and with all care.

It was no forced benevolence which prompted Sir
Loftus, without demur, to accept all charge of his
orphan nephew.

The stones of Castle Loughmore, the oaks, the
tarns, the purple moors that spread about it, shone with
a new light, — took the value of a long-lost treasure, ashe
thought of the baby heir that was coming across
the seas.

It was this heir that Sir Loftus had prayed for —
whatever was the form he used — night and day from
the moment the down had appeared upon Michael's
bright face ; it was in this possibility that he saw the
only good thing that could come of his young brother's
unwelcome existence.

He'll break his mad neck, Burke," Sir Loftus
would say to the family factotum, the only living being
he exchanged thoughts with. " Let him do it if he will ;
but in God's name make him give us a boy to the
house first."

Poor Michael, in his returned distance, contrived
very closely to comply with the spirit of his brother's
programme.

One preliminary condition Sir Loftus affixed to his
generous reception. Child and nurse were to keep
themselves out of his sight ; instant dismissal was to
follow the breach of this command. Such, at least, was
the threat. The child was not yet in a position to
give an opinion ; but the nurse was not backward with
hers.

Horrid old wretch ! He need not be afraid," said
she to herself. " I must be out of my mind indeed to
put my child in his way."

It must be owned that the devoted creature did not
reach this state of distrust, except through much
depression of spirit, and many dashed hopes.

She had bidden farewell to her friends on the Rock
with a light heart, for the prospect before her was a
bright one ; she counted the hours of the sea voyage,
and relieved its tedium, by dreaming at night and
prattling by day of the fine gentleman and fine house
and fine doings they were bound for ; and it was no
more than the most natural revulsion when the gloomy
facts of the real situation actually dawned upon her,
that she should be filled with dejection and indignation.
A comely Kentish woman, born and bred in the sunny
Weald, the whole surroundings inspired her with as
much terror as disgust. She shuddered at the wild
country, with its sparse habitations, and shuddered no

less at the wild tongues of the inhabitants ; and when,
with despair, she retreated with her nursling to the
rooms appointed to them, she clasped the child with
dread to her breast, as she beheld the black waters of
the lake lying cold and dark beneath the windows.

But time brings consolation. The child throve to
her heart's content ; the wages and the dinners were
good ; and the whisky was not bad ; and last, but not
least, Mr. Burke, the butler, looked in two or three
times every day, ostensibly direct from Sir Loftus, to
see that all was right, but clearly quite as much to
please himself, for when he came he was in no hurry
to depart.

He's a very affable man," wrote the good woman
to her Kentish kinsfolk, " and I can understand what
he says, which isn't the case with the rest of them ;
and he calls Master Claude a regular beauty."

The language of flattery is always intelligible, and
no doubt Mr. Burke had a side word of admiration
for the nurse as well; but as to Master Claude, he
fully justified the compliment paid to him, and if any
stronger term than " a regular beauty " could have
been devised to denote infantine smiles and dimples,
roundness and rosiness, truth would not have stood
in the way of its being used.

Things in this manner shook down at last into
something very like cheerfulness and content — in the
nursery department, at least. Sir Loftus himself, as
far as this part of his household went, might as well

have been in the land of the dead, for he was neither
seen nor heard.

The house was a large, straggling building, with
inner and outer court, central tower, and modern wings,
affording ample room and to spare for half a dozen
different establishments. Its melancholy owner had
long given up his dismal wanderings abroad, and confined
himself exclusively to the two or three rooms
which he had appropriated to himself; and by way
of precaution, if a chance necessity induced him to
leave them, a sort of cow's horn was put in requisition,
from which the most unearthly sounds were blown up
and down, to warn all stragglers to keep aloof.

Thus it was, that babe Claude grew into a sturdy
boy, running wild among the paternal hills and dells,
before uncle and nephew met face to face. The event,
when it did occur, was characteristic. Fed by his
nurse's pride, and by Mr. Burke's family pedigrees,
all the glory of which, he was taught to feel, must,
no long time to come, centre in his important self,
the boy grew insubordinate of his backstairs life, and
finally, to the dismay of the household, made his way
to his uncle's apartments unannounced.

Running breathless up to the old man's chair, ashe
sat moodily watching the burning peat, the boy
flung his little cap at his feet, crying out, " I'm come
to live with you ! I'm Claude Cormac Lorraine, and
I'm come down from Cormac Lharhane, and I'm as
good a Lharhane as you, every bit ! "

It was a fine descent to claim, from Cormac Liars
the wild head of the family, in the days when
they were all wild Lharhanes here ; when everything
in life was wild hereabout ; and before the degenerate
descendants of this wild stock had forsaken their wild
home for tamer scenes, and had learnt to fashion themselves,
their name, and their manners upon foreign
and feebler types.

Young Claude did not speak at a venture. He
had listened to many a thrilling tale, told by Mr.
Burke, beside the winter's hearth or amid the heather
in summer days, of the pride and strength of the
haughty chieftain, Cormac Lharhane. Nor did he
speak at a venture in regard to the effect of his speech.
If he had been trained to the part, he could not have
played it better.

As if a trumpet blast had rung in his ears. Sir
Loftus roused up strongly. Erect and straight, he
had not seen such an attitude for fifty years. He sat,
not raising a finger, staring at the boy without a word,
but with a light in his wolfish grey eyes as wild and
fierce as ever lit up Cormac Lharhane's own fiery orbs.

The boy did not flinch ; he stared at his uncle
in return. There he stood, the bold heir of the first
of the Lharhanes and of the last of the Lorraine, and
the very model of old Sir Claude : the head thrown
back ; the waving hair ; the fine, fearless face ; the
steady glance, — there it all was, the same to the life.
It mastered Sir Loftus.

The fire in his eyes died out, and the bushy eyebrows
lowered over them ; the figure collapsed again ;
and as his arms fell down, unconsciously he clutched
the boy's cap at his feet. Each day the fond sentiment
of the faithful Burke delighted to place in the
youngster's cap the traditional sprig of myrtle, the
debonair badge of his joyous grandfather.

Now, as Sir Loftus handled the cap, the myrtle
spray fell out. The old man picked it quickly up,
surveyed it long, smoothed down the leaves with a
gentle touch ; then hid it in his breast.

It was the first and only tender act of his life.
With one hand still hid in his breast, with the other,
he set the cap upon his nephew's head.

Boy," said he, " you may well be a better Liars
than I am ! "

The servants who had followed, with the nurse in
the rear, stood trembling in the doorway.

Burke, set the table for two," was Sir Loftus's only
other word.

From that day, the master and heir of Loughmore
dined together. No one in the castle, setting aside
the two principals, believed that this was a purely
natural occurrence.

It's the blessing of Heaven that he did not strike
the boy where he stood," wrote the nurse, sending off
to her people the earliest tidings of the unlooked-for
event. " But the Lord is good, and the orphan and
the widow are never forsaken."

But nurse's simple piety was prosaic, to the highly-coloured
beliefs of the rest of the household.

"Mush! " said Mike, the boots of the house, "It's
me Father noster that I'll not forget this night, I
will ! "

Hould yer long tongue ! Ye'll forget it ; and who
doubts iv it, ye reprobate ? " This reproof came from
the old gamekeeper, who, with his long grey hair, six
feet of height, and the splendid birds in his hand,
made a fine central figure in the midst of the kitchen
worthies.

Annyho, be me soul, but it bangs Bannagher ! "
grumbles Mike, slinking away.

"Annyho," takes up the gamekeeper, turning his
keen blue eyes after him — " Annyho, who'll be would
eno' to share me black an' white that it wasn't the
pore mither iv 'im just kim 'our the seas, to groan in
wit the children to the master ? "

"' Whist wit yes ! Wull ye wake the dead ? " cried
the cook, brandishing a gridiron over his head. " Be
this holy iron, iv the word was to be spake, it's a mighty
dale nearer the house we wad be finding' 'im as tuck it
in hand. The blessing' iv the saints in the memree iv
'im this day."

Bad scran to ye ! it's the dead ye air after raisin'
yersel' ! " retorted the cellarman, who, by virtue of the
spirits under his care, claimed to have superior information.
" Isn't it the lot o' ye that don't know nothing' ?
And isn't it Master Burke hissed', wut seed wit his

own eyes Ie back iv the crater, and he wnd share to the
Dullahan ? But it's hard frae the back o' sic a crater-like
to decade." With which oracular winding up he
proceeds to serve out the whisky all round.

Shure it's drawing entirely was Mr. Burke,"
suggests the mail-boy, who has just come in booted
and spurred, and is the sceptic of the neighbourhood.

Shure it's a quare thrace annyho," says Mike,
sneaking forward for his share of the whisky.

Shure it's idling' and lying' and drinking' yer air,
yer meddling' garments," cries Mr. Burke, appearing
upon the scene. " By the Jesus ! but ye'll sup sorrow
for this, wit yer basin' impudence, interfering' wit the
master's honbel famille. I'd just counsel ye to silence
iv ye wad no be tuck off this vara night be ane iv 'em."

This judicious threat was not made in vain ; it
stopped all discussion, scattered the party, and thrilled
the fat cook to the marrow. It confirmed Mike the
boots in his good intentions ; that night he said his
Pater noster not once, but many times, till his teeth
chattered in his head.

In this world of satiety, there is nothing like
possession to let a pleasure down. The boy Claude
soon sickened of the much-coveted privilege his bold
front had won for him.

The life with his uncle, in truth, was dreary enough.

Dismal enough, too, were the mute dinners, with no
sound save the stealthy step of the submissive Burke,
as he glided to and fro, doing the service. And thrice
dismal the after-hour, when Claude sat on the floor
beside Sir Loftus, and watched with him the faces in
the fire.

Then the boy, being wilful and lacking veneration,
took the matter once more into his own hands.
Oftener absent than present — absent when he should
have been most forthcoming, even at the dinner hour.
Nurse and Co. talked of turning out of doors. The
boy simply said, " He dare not."

Sir Loftus, on his side, made no sign. If he resented
the boy's truant tricks, they had no proof of it. He sat
before the burning peat, the same to look at, and yet
not the same, for the mind moved — moved to and fro
between the past and the future ; but in this past and
future there were but two figures, his father and
his nephew. The humble world about him knew very
little of his nature, except that he had hated where he
should have loved, had saved where he might have
spent, had moped where he might have been merry,
and that they feared him, for they knew not what.
They saw, to their surprise, that he bore with the
boy's absence as passively as he had suffered his
presence ; but they were far enough from guessing at
the effects of that presence — far enough from seeing,
under those bent eyebrows and that rigid form, the
warming process that was going on within, as, day by

VOL. I. G

day, the old man built up the future of his house upon
the corner-stone of his nephew's life, or fell dreamily
back into the past, with eyes fixed on the boy's unconscious
face, tracing the features of his father, sitting,
with a moody look but a softening heart, pondering
upon all the things, the Sir Claude of the past had had
or done, and planning that all these things the Sir
Claude of the future should have, and should do.

Now, old Sir Claude had been educated at Eton ;
his mother was an Englishwoman, and his father an
Irish absentee, and for the first twenty years of his
life he never set foot in what it would be an Irishism
to call his native land.

Thus it came about that on the day the boy Claude
became eleven years of age, Sir Loftus despatched
him under trusty escort once more across the sea, and
made him what his grandfather was, an Eton boy.
Claude's education hitherto had not been in very
efficient hands. His nurse, not a bad scholar, had
taught him to read; but the higher branches were
entrusted to the parish priest of Loughmore. What
that poor man went through during the two hours'
daily lesson, from the consciousness of his own ignorance,
and from his pupil's idleness, it would take a
volume to tell. It is sufficient to say that results,
as far as acquirements went, might be summed up in
the word nil.

The boy, however, was as intelligent as he was idle,
as he wrote to his uncle from Eton : — " There are lots

of stupid boys here. I can learn better than they do ;
and I'm not ashamed at all ! "

In speaking sto. Lady Laure of his Eton days
Lorraine was scarc^v^ust. He owed much every way
to Eton. It wasps 'first step to his natural place in
society. A great school seems made expressly for the
benefit of boys coming from secluded homes ; and if the
schoolmaster can mar a boy, the school can very often
make him. We know something already of the way
young Claude's school days were spent. He passed
through them with no discredit to his name, and made
the one friendship which, in spite of himself, coloured
his life.

When he came to quit for good the " fields beloved'*
he gave another instance of his faculty for disposing of
himself.

Other youths were full of home plans ; he had no
home, so to speak, to make plans about. His holiday
time had been passed either with the families of his
boy friends or with a tutor ; and now, what to do
and where to go were questions he was at a loss to
give a ready reply to. Sir Loftus desired him to pass
on to Oxford. Old Sir Claude had passed from Eton
to Oxford ; it followed that this was the course marked
out at Loughmore for young Claude.

But Loughmore was not London, and young
Claude's will went only so far as he pleased — no
further; and in the matter of Oxford, he decided
promptly that it was out of the question. Books were

not in his line ; *^ and," said he, " if I am to go to
Oxford to be idle, I may as well be idle somewhere
else, and in a way more to my mind, and with no
pretence about it."

That was Claude Lorraine's way of viewing things
from the first. Still, he was brought up short, though
not daunted. He looked about him, as might an
Alpine traveller who finds himself, at break of a summer's
day, upon some upland ice level, no taint of
earth above his head or beneath his feet, and all
around him, piercing the blue skies in unbroken chain,
the snow peaks, white, glistening, and surpassingly
bright. The intense exhilaration of his corporeal
altitude, is yet exceeded by his mental spring and
soar ; but neither of these grow the less because, maybe,
he has yet to find the track, that shall take him
over these alluring heights and dazzling slopes, to the
next stage of his high-pitched wanderings.

So stood the stripling Claude, at the most joyous
moment of life. Tutelage in the rear, freedom in the
van, blest with the purest health, the most perfect
spirits. Possessing money and money's worth, it was
not in nature — not in his nature, at least — to sit
down discouraged, for lack of a home and the human
furnishing thereof, — father and mother to consult and
obey, sisters to be convenient to, brothers to imitate
or irritate. There was a brighter side to home life, no
doubt ; but whether bright or not, he could do without
it, for the world was before him.

In this last word lay the key to his next step in
life. This world that was before him ! Why should
he not see it ? — not in an imaginary sort of way, but
practically. But still, the first difficulty remained.
How to set about this — at what end of things should he
begin ? Suddenly a thought struck him, so eminently
simple that he called himself a blockhead for not
having hit upon it before : he would follow his father's
example, and enter a regiment going abroad. This
way of seeing the world would save him all personal
arrangement and trouble. There was nothing to keep
him in England ; nothing to take him to Ireland ;
nothing, in fact, to hinder the proceeding. The purchase
money should come out of his own patrimony
which, as he very well knew, had not grown the less
during the eighteen years it had rested in Sir Loftus's
tenacious hands.

The resolution taken, a little allowance must be
made for the temporary elation which followed. He
went about as a man might go who had imbibed some
exciting gas; but being naturally of an even temperament,
he came down to sober earth with the third
day, and, thus steadied, wrote a letter to his uncle,
which he flattered himself was a model of clearness,
persuasion, and common sense.

It failed, however, of its expected effects. Sir
Loftus was deeply displeased, not with the independence
of the decision, — there was nothing tyrannical
in his rule over the boy ; his displeasure lay with the

decision itself. To his apprehensive mind the succession
was again imperilled, and, moreover, there was a soft
spot owned by Claude alone, in the horny heart of the
recluse. It was the first blow the boy had given to
the old man ; that blow — which sooner or later, daring
Youth will inevitably deal to doating Age.

Claude got his way, and that without many words.
In words, in fact. Sir Loftus did not deal ; the lines in
his face grew deeper, but he said nothing. He retreated
still more into silence, the resource of his life-time,
the expression of all his suffering.

It was to the East that our hero went on this his
first venture in seeing the world. The novelty at first
pleased. He congratulated himself upon having made
a very good beginning, and upon a wide scale, too.
Such were his first impressions; but first impressions
soon wear off, and sometimes degenerate into the very
reverse of what is favourable. After all, a mess-table
and the capital of an Indian presidency are very narrow
grooves in which to see the world, and it was not very
long before Claude Lorraine came to see these facts in
the most forcible manner. But though he saw his
mistake, he did not see so clearly his way out of it,
and he paid the penalty of five consecutive years of
foreign service for his rashness.

But at the end of this term he bestirred himself

in good earnest, for the prospect of five more such
years was intolerable to him ; so, making a virtue of
necessity, he despatched another letter to Loughmore^
framed this time in a spirit of some humility, acknowledging
his mistake, and expressing his desire
to exchange into a home regiment. He even proposed,
though with a distinctly stated intention of
repayment, that Sir Loftus should make him an
advance towards this end.

If he had not been very hard driven, he could not
have brought himself to this last. But desperate
straits beget desperate measures, and unless he could
back his exchange with a good sum down, he might wait
some time — it might take him months in fact, to
arrange it out of his own finances. But, in placing
himself in his uncle's hands, Claude knew full well what
he was about ; he did not calculate without his host.
His eagerness to return was as nothing compared to
Sir Loftus's gnawing desire to know him to be once
more within the British Isles. All this he shrewdly
guessed, nor did it take him by surprise when the
very earliest post that could arrive put the following
reply in his hands : —

"Nephew Claude,

Come back ; sell your commission ; draw
on me ; go into the Guards.

Yours,

"Loftus Lorraine.
Pes. — You will not come over here."

Sir Loftus's brief style was a foretaste of the model
telegram, clearly within the twenty words, barring the
postscript.

But this postscript could not be done without ;
it was as indispensable as postscripts proverbially are.
It was, however, a legitimate postscript, for it expressed
an after-thought.

The penitent's tardy but welcome announcement
threw the household of Loughmore into a spasmodic
state. The worthy Burke, still filling the post of
major domo, was so transported by the good news,
that even in the presence of Sir Loftus he could not
contain himself. He threw up his eyes and his hands,
gave vent to many wild ejaculations, and wound up
with, " The Lord be praised, and the blessed Virgin,
and all the saints, every one iv 'em !. for these eyes will
be after seeing the young master again. And I'll
soon be setting the table for two ; and Sir Loftus, yer
honour, ye'll not know yersel' again, for the comfort iv
it all to ye."

Sir Loftus lifted his head with a start. He gave
a furtive look about him ; once or twice he said, *' Let
be, let be ! " as the excited butler rearranged the peat
and lingered over the service to give himself further
time to vent his feelings.

When the door at last closed. Sir Loftus raised
himself laboriously, for he was feeble now, dragged
himself slowly across to a writing-table on which lay
an open sheet, sat down — and added his postscript.

It was the old story of the boy's ready adoption
and the boy's backstairs banishment. Full of all the
joy his joyless soul could feel at the return of this
precious heir of the house, grasping with both hands
at the event, providing for every obstacle, — the idea
suddenly presented to him of meeting him face to
face, filled him with the keenest alarm ; the habit of
seeing him was gone, and he trembled in his chair aSy
in imagination, he heard his nephew's footfall on the
stairs.

The nephew was well suited to the uncle. His
feelings were not in any way wounded. He smiled
at the letter, laughed at the postscript, called it
capital news, and felt heartily obliged to Sir Loftus,.
without the smallest grudge or the slightest desire
to go against his uncomplimentary injunction.

Eight months or a little more saw this new move
carried through, and Claude Lorraine installed in
London society as the handsome Guardsman, and as a
very eligible and well-conditioned 2Jar^^, with brilliant
expectations. It depended upon himself alone to
become the favourite young man of the day.

But he was restive, and before a year was out he
voted the whole thing a bore. He found society a
game not worth — his candle, at any rate, and the lounging
military life at home, was a greater nuisance to

him than the drowsy one abroad. A man is scarcely
to be blamed if his tastes don't run in these lines ;
but it must be admitted that with Lorraine there was
a certain inadequateness at the bottom of his dissatisfaction.
He had no predilections, no ambition ; it is
almost absurd to say of him that he had no enthusiasm —
he was so entirely wide of that feeling ; almost as true
would it be to say that he had no passions. His leading
characteristic, the one that broke out, was an impatience
of the existing state of things, whatever they
happened to be. It was not instability, but lukewarmness
; it is a quality of the mind often most
dominant under the least burdensome circumstances,
for trouble and ennui are rarely travelling companions.


But, unlike his uncle, Lorraine was not given to
suffering in silence ; on the contrary, he sent his disgust
and discontent all round.

The regimental doctor, a man of much sagacity,
listened with some amusement. Lorraine declared
that his condition was not to be jested at.

Call it a sluggish liver," rejoined the doctor.

I have said it is no joke," retorted Lorraine.

That is the very point," replied his medical
friend, coolly. " On the grounds of your sluggish liver
you can ask for long leave, and try what travel on the
Continent will do for you."

This diagnosis of the sluggish liver was accepted
by the authorities.

Lorraine's own account of his state to one of this
intimates the day before starting was quite as near to
the truth.

You see, my dear fellow," said he, " I am not a
horsey man, nor a boating man, nor a rowing man, nora
reading man. I'm not music mad ; I hate politics as
politics — I mean, I can't stand with my back to the fire
hill day, arguing about my opinions. And I haven't the
distractions you have : I don't play ; I don't drink ; I
don't go to the devil for the fair sex ; I can't go in for
such trifles as tailors and trinkets, because my purse is
short, and I'm averse to coming upon Sir Loftus — time
enough to spend his money when it's mine. There !
You've got my case. I'm going away now, but I don't
expect to mend it. I'm the man with nothing to do ;
and, as far as I can see, there's nothing on the face of
the earth for me to do."

There is something to be said for Lorraine's lamentations.
As a philosophic friend of mine remarked tome
the other day, pleasure, like colour, is purely objective.
It is as you take it ; the trees are green because
we determine that they are green. The amusements of
life are such because they amuse you ; if they do not
amuse you, they cease to be amusements. And so with
life's interests. Labour and pain alone are actualities —
positive, not relative, though some have mounted to
such sublime metaphysical heights, as in the case of
pain, to deny even this. But sound health may possibly
be one of the conditions of such flights.

CHAPTER V.

ROMANCE.

Gentle stream, why hurry hy ?

Canst thou not a moment stay ?
Fragrant flowers with painted eye.

Birds sweet singing on the spray.
Peace and joy together vie

To persuade thee to delay ;
All things love thee here. Then why

Gentle stream, why haste away ? "
Nothing cares the stream, nor heeds.
Onward ever, onward speeds,
Only sighs, " I love the sea ;
There I long, I haste to be ! "

Gentle stream, yet hear me speak
Ere you quit your peaceful home.
And to far-off oceans roam.

"What the perils that you seek ?
Many a long and desert mile

You shall course, and cease to smile ;

Or o'er rocks be hurl'd and lost.

Fretted, shattered, tempest-tost.

Gentle stream, while still you may.

Pause " The stream is far away ;

Only sighs, " I love the sea ;

** Gentle stream, yet let me teach
What the end your race must reach,
When, within the sea, you leave
Love and all you have to give —
You will perish unrequited,
All your love unfelt and slighted ! "
Sang the stream, " Thus let me die !

Yes, though this embrace shall kill.

Let my life this presence fill ! "
So she sang, and hurried by.
Sighed, " I love, I love the sea ;
There I long, I haste to be ! "

The Villa Grimaldi — such was the name of the house
rented by Lord Bellarmine — occupied, with its rustic
garden and terraced citron and orange groves, nearly
the whole of the small promontory on which it stood.
The situation was a pretty isolation, commanding the
sole access to the bit of rocky shore below it. The road
which skirted its inland boundaries was merely a local
one, uniting the town on the one side with the city on
the other. It was not much of a macadamized route.
You could just get along it with a horse and wheeled
vehicle, and that was about all ; but it had, like many
another indifferent road, the charm of variety: now
beside the sea, now between the rocks, now bridging
the watercourses, now mounting, now descending, now
beneath the lofty screen of the pine-clad cape, now
threading the deep shade of the olive wood, then upon
^ bare steep against the sky, mule-tracks and by-paths
intersecting it at every angle, some leading down to
the shore, some up to mountain shrines and towers and
distant hamlets, only to be reached on foot.

In that long time ago, taking your pleasure by these
shores and hills, to have met another English face
would have been somebody to wonder at, as the earl
said to Lady Laure, when she entreated that they
might stay for a while in this lovely spot. "At
least we shall have it all to ourselves ; there's that
advantage."

In the substance he was right. At that moment he
was not thinking of the natives, still less of such exceptionally
welcome godsend as Mr. Mildew and Lorraine.
He had rather in his eye that irrepressible British
being, to be encountered in foreign parts, who, with an
exhilarated countenance, of which you have not the
faintest recollection, is — " So charmed to have met
you ! " " So delighted to renew the acquaintance ! " or,
possibly, of that distant relation who turns up unawares,
and whom you have been trying all your life to keep
out of the way of; or of that tribe of gossiping
acquaintance, who find their liveliest distraction de
voyage in making notes of the sayings and doings of
their neighbours, and who fill up their letters to their
friends at home, with precise details as to whether you
appear in a white hat or a black one.

If, indeed, just now this neighbourhood, rich in so
much loveliness, had also been blessed with one or two
of these painstaking observers of their travelling compatriots,
no doubt the Villa Grimaldi and its inmates
might have afforded a good deal of food for their
inquiring minds ; nor does it need much imagination to-conjecture

what they would have said. Take Lady
Laure, for instance. " So singular that she was in such
a hurry to exchange her old Squire for her young one.
It was wonderful, too, what a change there was in her,
quite a rose tint upon her cheek, and quite a new light
in her blue eyes, and such a new animation in her
graceful manners. But then, climate does so much for
the young ; draws out all those latent fires which do
but smoulder beneath more chilly skies."

Then for the earl, — "Good, simple man, yet so
perfectly polished; such a good host and so fond a
father. Yet it was odd, playing his chess as he did, and
throwing his daughter upon that young man's hands ;
it was a very different affair walking about with that
old Mr. Mildew."

Old Mr. Mildew himself might have been altogether
passed over. He was old and grey and rather grim; and
he was, after all, only an outsider. Perhaps of late he
had become a shade more grave, and grown somewhat
cynical ; but such qualities sat quite naturally upon his-lined
and thoughtful brow. As for the young man,,
the gossips might have found in him their most
piquant puzzle. Sometimes bored, sometimes buoyant ;
always going, never gone. Full of brusque speeches, of
polite devoirs, of enigmatical words, of praises of friendship,
of warnings against love ; easy in temper as in
manners, yet capable of a sudden petulance ; changeable
as a chameleon to Lady Laure — always at her feet, always
affecting indifference ; always with two sides to himself

— always playing two parts, and yet without a mask.
So natural was his ennui and his enjoyment, his attentions
and his indifference, his good temper and his bad,
that it might have perplexed the keenest looker-on to
make out what he was about.

In one thing only was Lorraine consistent. This was
his absolute antagonism to Mr. Mildew ; it began with
the first hearing of his name, and from that moment it
suffered no change or abatement. If there is such a
thing as Hate at first sight, this was it.

Equally unmistakable was yet another fact, namely,
the favour in which Lorraine stood with the earl and
his daughter. It was one of those cases of determined
partiality, in which everything that is said is received
with a smile, and nothing that is done can bring down
a frown. From the first, the earl had welcomed him, ashe
said, " not as a stranger," but as a new-found and
cherished member of the intimate circle.

Who could have thought," he took a pleasure in
remarking, " when you, Laure, induced me, much, I
own, against my private inclination, to pitch our tent
in this pretty wilderness, that we should find Mildew
and Lorraine ready to hand, to make us such good
company ? " Then the satisfied father would laugh,
and say it was all Lady Laure's happy doing, and
shake his hand playfully at her, and call her " a clever
little witch."

In the midst, however, of all this frank liking and of
these approving smiles, Lorraine was met from day today

by one dissentient face. No one knew better than
be himself did, that Mr. Mildew returned his dislike
with a distrust that fell little short of pure disgust.
When he came out with his bantering sallies or his
lackadaisical speeches, Mr. Mildew became severely
silent, or, with a lift of the eyebrows, cut him short
with some curt truth.

Lorraine would have told you that he cared not
one straw for this man's opinion, good or bad ; and he
endeavoured to prove this to the man himself, by
exhibiting before him his idlest caprices, and by what
is called " rubbing him up the wrong way," with a show
of reckless amusement, whenever he had the chance.

But this hitch in a general way had no appreciable
effect ; none at all, in fact, with the earl, — if he observed
it, — he passed it smoothly over. Mr. Mildew and
Lorraine were not of the family, and nothing whatever
to each other ; they were simply welcome guests, in
whose society the time, which otherwise might have
hung heavily, passed pleasantly away ; and each had
something special to recommend him in the way of
intimacy and companionship. What more was thereto
desire ?

Time's wings, however, took very unequal flights in
the villa ; and Lorraine, for his part, would have
declared that they were weighted with a good deal
more of lead than of quicksilver. The days for him
dragged a very slow length along. They had grown
to Wicks, almost to months — very desperately and

VOL. I-1- H

despairingly wet seeks they were — never, in the
memory of the oldest inhabitant, had there been such
a deluge ; and still the rain continued.

And again one more day sets in, which is nothing
brighter than that other day, when all these dark
doings began.

The clouds, which at its opening had conducted
themselves in a more hopeful way, by twelve o'clock
belied the faint promise they had given, gathering
together all around, black and threatening and so low
that the Yilla Grimaldi was only in half light, and
the village above it was invisible. One difference,
indeed, from yesterday might have been remarked : the
mountain-tops to the w est stood up cold and colourless,
piercing the slaty veil which wrapt their sides.

Lorraine sits listlessly watching some mystery of
needlework executed by Lady Laure's fair fingers.
He yawns undisguisedly, gets up, lounges to the
window, comes back, drops heavily again into his
chair, with " What intolerable weather ! This is the
most detestable climate I was ever in ! "

Lady Laure lifts her eyes with a sympathizing
little nod and a smile of amusement. She takes no
shadow from these lowering clouds ; she is soft and
bright as a blush rose opening to the sun.

It's so hard for you ! " says she ; " but it will not
last much longer now ; the clouds are quite down, and
you can see those mountains above them over there.
Every one says that is the best sign."

"We've had nothing but better signs and best
signs, according to the people here, for the last month.
It's a base invention on their part to detain us."

But you know," remonstrates Lady Laure, " that
they say they have never had anything like it. Everyday
they expect the fine weather ! "

"And every day it doesn't come," grumbles
Lorraine. "If we had Lucie here, it might be endured
; but he is like the fine weather, a snare and a
delusion! But for his false hopes, I should have
vanished long ago ! If he doesn't appear, I shall take
myself out of this wet sponge, at any rate before the
week's out."

"Your last appearances, Mr. Lorraine," remarks
Mr. Mildew, just released from the chess-table, " remind
me of * the last night positively ' of a provincial star."

Ah ! very true," says Lorraine, throwing himself
back in his chair, impatiently ; " with the difference
that the star wants to stay, and I want to go."

Why not go ? " suggests Mr. Mildew, with an
immovable voice.

Because I'm a lazy idiot."

"A harmless reason, at any rate, as far as your
neighbours are concerned," says Mr. Mildew.
Yesterday I thought you were waiting to see Lord
Lucie."

"Well, yes; but I don't remember yesterday.
These rains wash everything out of mind and body.
I am developing into that fungus. Lady Laure, which

I talked to you about one evening long ago ! Height !
low long it vas ago! Do you think we shall ever,
any of us, get away from this place? I have my
doubts. Isn't there a fable somewhere, of people
taking root ? — growing out into stones and trees ? "

He gives a glance across at Mr. Mildew, who i&
evidently watching the effect of his words upon Lady
Laure. The glance brings another direct upon himself
a glance from under Mr. Mildew's bent eyebrows,
full of silent menace. Lorraine's lips curl slightly.
He gets up, and, taking a light chair in his hand, he
plants it close beside Lady Laure, and sets himself
in it, blocking out Mr. Mildew.

Playing with one end of her hroderie as he speaks,
If this is to be our ultimatum," says he, " you shall
be the tree, Lady Laure, and I will be the stone at
your feet."

She meets his eyes for an instant with a quick
blush ; she is not likely to give him any other answer
about this arrangement.

I shall at least be quiet and comfortable," adds
Lorraine ; " and I hope you, too. Lady Laure, will find
some advantage in the situation ! " He pushes his
chair back, and opens Mr. Mildew again upon the scene.

"Oh! we need not fear," says Lady Laure, still
blushing, but with no sign of displeasure at Lorraine's
*' comfortable arrangements." " Look at Mr. Mildew ^
he is quite safe at present, and yet it is almost twenty
years that he has been here."

Lorraine does as he is bid ; he looks round ; he
expects to see Mr. Mildew white or black with wrath.
The whole of his " comfortable arrangement " was
rehearsed, not for the purpose of making Lady Laure
blush, but to make Mr. Mildew frown ; but, for a
wonder, Mr. Mildew meets him with a smile — a most
irritating smile.

Lady Laure sees only the smile, and none of the
irritation. " You see he is quite safe," she says again,
recovering from her confusion under the cover of Mr.
Mildew's remarkable safety.

Quite safe," echoes Mr. Mildew, always smiling.
The ironical tone matches the smile.

Lorraine's temper takes fire, he is transported to
sudden exasperation, his balance fairly goes. "Why
not ? " he exclaims. " A fungus by name and nature ! "

Lady Laure reddens to the brows ; her work drops
from her hands in distress and agitation. From a calm
she is plunged into a chaos. It is the affair of an
instant. Mr. Mildew alone is cool.

You are confounding me with yourself, Mr. Lorraine
— a most unaccountable liberty ! By your own
representation just now, it is you who are the fungus.
For myself, I only claim to be the naturalist, making
my observations upon all varieties of species."

Mr. Mildew's stern face gives Lorraine to understand
what sort of observation he is making upon him
in particular.

Lady Laure looks from one to the other, her blue

eyes stretched wide in pain and surprise. She would
give the world to say something, to do something, to
make it all right again, to wipe out that wanton speech,
to console Mr. Mildew, to bring an atoning word from
Lorraine.

To wipe out what Lorraine had scored upon the
pages of the ineffaceable was not given to Lady Laure
to do ; but she moved him with her unfeigned distress,
and he was stung himself with the glaring fact that
be had transgressed the bounds of decent manners.
Banter is never repented of — insult may be. Lorraine,
after his inexcusable outburst, is cooling down into
something like contrition. It was strange, but he had
never felt so little inimical to Mr. Mildew before.

He had no particle of personal pride, as pride —
what he had, was a most complacent self-confidence;
as for anything like dogged obstinacy, it would have
been too much trouble to go through with it. Convinced
now of the wrong, it was perfectly easy to him
to say, " You are quite right, Mr. Mildew ; it was a
mistake — a very unwarrantable one, I admit. I beg
your pardon."

Mr. Mildew was a philosopher and a philanthropist ;
but he was not flexible — he could neither bend nor
unbend before the winds of Lorraine's rash follies or
frank apologies. He draws himself up stiffly and
bows. Then, with a brief leave-taking to Lady Laure,
he goes.

It is too much for Lady Laure. It is the first storm
of her gentle life. She is heartbroken to have witnessed
this offence ; she is heartbroken to think of the offender ;
she is heartbroken to see the proud displeasure of her
old friend — so just a displeasure — so just, she knows.
And now beside her is Lorraine, subduing her with
a fresh emotion.

He takes her hand between his own, a real regret
in his dark eyes. " Forgive my folly ! " he pleads.
I am a sad bear ! " He smoothes with unconscious
tenderness the hand he still holds. " A sad bear. I
always told you so — told you to beware of me."

It is too much for Lady Laure. She cannot control
herself; her tears fall abundantly. Like the showers
Avithout, once begun, they continue to fall, she cannot
stop them.

It was Lorraine's first acquaintance with a woman's
tears, as an appeal against himself. At the next
exhibition of this sort he may become more hardened ;
but now he is completely conquered. If he had committed
murder on the spot, he could not have felt more
guilty. "I am a wretch ! " he cries ; " a monster, to
bring these tears to your eyes ! "

Lady Laure fain would say, " No, not a wretch, nota
monster ; " but since she has no voice to speak it, she
looks it.

Lorraine for the last month has been laying everything
upon the weather. It may be the weather to-day
which has so upset his sang-froid; clearly he is fast

losing his balance again. " Your sweet blue eyes," he
murmurs, remorsefully.

Lady Laure's blue eyes, glistening with tears and
forgiveness, are sweet indeed, sweet, tender, resistless.

Lorraine's mental horizons are turning upside down.
The common things of this world — coolness, caution,
cold-blooded calculation — fade from his vision; he
sees only a pair of tearful blue eyes, and at their bidding
the far-back Past and the bewildering Present
rush together, and with a strong wave of his feelings
bring him to his crisis.

"Laure, you are mine. You remember the old
days — you remember our betrothal?" He says no
more ; but he has said enough.

He takes both hands now, and clasps them in sign
of full possession. He presses for no spoken word.
Why should he ? Modest make-believe is not in his
nature. When he dallies with things, it is in amusement,
not in mock humility. Why should he hide
that he has read this long time the heart that he
has made his own, together with these clasped hands ?
He bearing where others end — as master.

And yet — and yet, it is on the cards that with this
heart, and these two white hands, he has taken the
Fate which is to be his master, whether he will or no,
come what — come may.

CHAPTER VI.

REALITIES.

Full sweet is May and sweet is June,

When birds and buds are all in tune,

To wander in the star-lit night,

Or in the round moon's silver light,

And sing the praise of two bright eyes ;

'Tis sweet as Muslim Paradise.

Yes ! — May, and June, and stars, and moon,

And Love's bright eyes, and minstrel tune, —

Delightful all ; no doubt, they are.

But, friend, the world is better far !

After Heine.

Let us suppose that gossipmonger we were talking
about just now to have been peeping unawares in at
the windows upon these two young people. She — or
it might very well have been he — would have gone
away, and said, upon the best authority, that Lorraine
had lost his heart ; but getting only a superficial view
of the affair, as is so often the way, he would have
said the thing that was not. It was his head that
Lorraine lost. He was not the first man, and probably
will not be the last, who has found himself planted on
his knees before the fair one, making eternal vows, and
claiming all that she has to give in return, without

having had the smallest premeditation in the matter.
No one is so taken by surprise as the ardent lover
himself — no one so glad as he, could he, in drill phrase,
be " as you were." But all the world over, it is easier
to do than to undo.

The man who is capable of losing his head after
this fashion, allowing for rare exceptions, is probably
without the courage of his convictions. In vain he
says to himself — he says it to no one else — that he
doesn't care a straw for her! But he swallows it all
down ; he does not even struggle ; and the finish of
it is, the model marriage, and the model couple, who
live happily ever after — or seem to do, which is the
essential point.

We left Lorraine as near as possible upon his
knees — upon one knee certainly — absorbed in the task
of drying Lady Laure's tearful cheeks by calling into
them the timid blushes of happy love.

It was one of those critical situations, which, like
retiring backwards, it is difficult to withdraw from
with the natural ease and finish suited to the occasion.
Once on your knees, the question is how to get off
them, and when. Lorraine had scarcely begun to put
this question to himself, when it was solved impromptu
by a voice at his back, with the croak of
a raven, and the words, " Did you ring, my lady ? "

It was Burton who had thus taken advantage of
these unguarded outposts.

It is a curious thing to consider what the effect
would have been if this inquiry had been made
five minutes earlier. It is not too much to say that
the eventualities of two lives at the least would,
in all human probability, have been quite otherwise
to what they proved to be. But then, they say. Fate
fits affairs to a nicety, and philosophers tell us all
things happen of necessity; and therefore we must
accept that it was not in the range of possibilities that
Burton's croak could have come one moment before
it did.

This caspar of destiny, after letting Mr. Mildew
out, had lounged for a while at the hall door. " How
quiet you are ! " said he to himself. " I wonder what's
going on." Finally he came to the determination
that he would just go and see.

Burton and Mrs. Jenkins, Lady Laure's own maid,
had had their eyes open for some time. When, indeed,
do servants not have their eyes open ? When is their
prescience at fault in your concerns? They can tell
you what must happen before you know it yourself;
it is quite useless to try to hoodwink them ; it is better
to take them into your confidence.

There is something burlesque in these love surprises,
especially by the butler ! Lady Laure falters,
"No." Lorraine curses the situation with all his
heart. He gets on his feet with an angry start, takes
out his watch, mutters something about its being late,
and escapes upon the plea of dressing for dinner. It
was a bad beginning.

Lorraine's bedroom, or rather the room in which he
slept, was in a sort of side entresol, with a short flight
of steps up to it, and another short flight leading up
again to the first floor proper. It was as incommodious
as improvised sleeping-rooms usually are ; and to this
might be added also the usual Continental shortcomings
of bedrooms in those days.

It had been a little salon, and the space was
blocked with a variety of tables, couches, and cabinets.
Some grim-looking oil paintings hung upon
the walls, and between the two windows was a mirror,
in which your reflection took the appearance of a
shadowy mass, without outlines. The toilet-table was
to be sought for in the darkest corner of the room ;
it was simple, — consisting of a meagre tripod washstand,
and a cracked, oblong looking-glass nailed high
above it. There was a desolate feeling about the
room, in spite of the lumber of furniture ; perhaps for
its inappropriateness, or by reason of the half-excluded
light, or through the dreary look of the empty hearth —
a wide and dusty cave, that seemed to be yawning for
the giant logs which were not. The windows opened
double ; both stood half ajar ; the rain came freely
through, and everywhere went the musical hum of the
mosquito — airy insect ! Near to one window, upon a
chair, lay a pile of collars and linen, partially moistened,
and all more or less in shreds — the effects of the
vigorous stone-beating au hord du rivage.

The room was not altogether solitary, for upon a

couch, out of the draught, reposed the solemn Burton's
pet poodle, taking his siesta upon Stilts's chef d'oeiivre.
If the dog had been a physiognomist, he would have
got at once out of the way.

Lorraine's face is lowering ; he shivers, frowns, and
turns himself round. Clearly a storm is brewing.
The first signs of it, comes with a dash at the poodle.
In his pursuit, he catches his foot in a mosquito
curtain, and rends it remorselessly. Finally, the creature
escapes by the window, at the risk of its legs and
its neck. It was not fair upon the dog, for in happier
moments Lorraine had encouraged the intimacy : but
such is the friendship of man !

Matters being so far arranged, Lorraine stands-posed
in the middle of the room, his hand to his head,,
meditating.

At last, with the air of a man who has arrived at
a decided opinion, he bows his head, and makes this
sotto voce speech to himself, "Claude Lorraine, the
engaged man ! — I congratulate you upon this day's
work ! " And then he begins to dress.

But this operation does not improve his temper.
This is the day for all things to go wrong. One split
collar after another strews the floor ; he stumbles over
the furniture; he can find nothing. He kicks the
impediments right and left. He is more worried than
he has ever been in his life.

If they'd given me a garret instead of this furniture
shop ! Breaking my shins, and losing one thing
after another, like an idiot ! "

But he gets through it somehow. Now he is
planted before the glass, to give the final touches.
But the necktie partakes of the universal tendency;
it has such an atrocious twist in it! No wonder, when
the split surface reflects everything awry. Lorraine
grows weary of the game.

You cracked bit of rubbish," says he, " you area
deal too good to show the face of such a — confounded
fool as I am ! "

Thus suddenly Lorraine drifted away from his
calm security* his safe soundings. Not of deliberate
will — far enough from that; but because, in spite of
protesting, he was only a man like the rest — prone to
anger ; prone to pity ; prone to passion ; he might
himself have added, prone to lunacy.

Chapter Iii.

THE QUESTION.

Just a thing or two,
Before hence I go,
I should like to know.

"Why does not modesty thrive ?
And why can the bold knave dive
With his hand unsung in the hive ?

And why, with danger in sight,
With the wrong as plain as the right.
Don't we choose as well as we might ?

And why will a woman love best
The man who has freely confest
Open scorn for her and the rest ?

Two clays are past and gone, and yet, save by tacit
admission, this pair of lovers have not reverted to that
emotional scene between them which had been so
prosaically brought to a close. Certainly it was for
Lorraine to renew the subject, and he knew it. Still,
he delayed ; only delay, however, if he had hopes of
drifting away from it — of letting it drop out of mind
in a natural sort of way — if at first he allowed himself
any such hopes, he very soon abandoned them.
On his side, indeed, such a lapse would have been

112 Peirce Fortune AND TEIXXE FATAL.

easy enough. That half-hour of romance had left him
where he was ; but, read by the key he alone had,
he beheld Lady Laure altogether transfigured by it.
Her voice, her eyes, her mantling cheeks, her movements,
her gentle gestures were all redolent of the
love she had dared to take and had dared to give.
Lorraine saw it all, felt it all, as he followed her steps
and studied her face with more observance, — with something
of a freer eye than heretofore ; he read it all.

If these signs of her maiden passion awoke no
corresponding thrills of rapture in his own breast, they
broke up for the moment the monotony of the life ;
if the sight of her sweet, queenly loveliness, tremulous
with her new joy, did not bring him again to her feet
it at least qualified some of his self-remorse at the
sacrifice he had made for her.

If a man," said he to himself, " must make a fool
< »f himself, could any woman on earth furnish him with
a better excuse ? "

It took two reluctant days to bring him to the
]point ; on the third he resigns himself to his position.

As usual, the two are left to their own resources.
Lady Laure has put aside her embroidery, and is
daintily playing with a bunch of rose buds Lorraine
has gathered for her. Lorraine himself is walking up
and down in a fidgety way. At last, he stops short in
front of her.

I suppose," says he, '' I must speak to Lord Bellarmine."


Lady Laure lifts her eyes with an uncertain expression.


Lorraine answers her look with another, which says
quite plainly, " Don't affect not to know what I mean."

Lady Laure is truth itself. She has neither
coquetry nor affectation. She understands now, quite
well ; but still, it was scarcely fair on his side.

Well,"'says he.

Oh, you know how much he likes you I " she
murmurs.

Likes me ! " — a half-smile comes upon his lips.
•• Well, yes, certainly I have every reason to believe it."

Then he falls a-thinking, and goes back to his walk
up and down. At the second turn he stops again, throws
his head back with the air of putting a thought on one
side. He touches her cheek lightly. " What do you
say, Laure ? Shall this secret belong to you and to me
for yet one more day ? How can we best enjoy this
stolen bliss? Shall we climb to that mountain-top,
and confide it to the winds ? only we must take care
take care they don't blow it away ! " He speaks
with a laugh, a reckless laugh.

Lady Laure sees no harm. She sees nothing but
her handsome lover and her own love ; her eyes beam
With it.

*' You are happy ! " says Lorraine. She would fain
reply. But he goes quickly on. "You are happy; it
wants no words to tell me that." Then he looks steadily

VOL. I. I

at her. " And you are lovely this morning. Now, don't
be hurt ; but it's true, that before the last two days I
never knew you were even beautiful. But now," says
he, smiling, " now that I have formed my opinion, let
me tell you that you are lovely, very lovely, Laure ;
and lovely, takes in a great many — well charms I
will say — that beautiful does not."

Then he throws his head back again, — it is a
trick he has, to suit certain expressions. He goes on :
"I, you see, Laure, have a habit of not noticing a
woman's looks. Now, some men would tell you off her
points in half an hour. Are they the better lovers, do
you think ? By-the-by, I have a right now to be inquisitive.
Talking of lovers, did you ever have a
lover — a grown-up lover — before Laure? — the inimitable
Aboyne, for instance?" He has turned grave; he
looks as if he means to be answered.

Lady Laure masters a hesitation. " Why ask this,"
says she, " when you know that Arthur Aboyne is
nothing to me — except that we have been friends all
our lives ? "

"That's not the point. Does he care for you? —
love you, in fact ? I don't see how he can have lived
with you all his life without doing so ! — mind you, I
am speaking by the light of the last three days."

Lady Laure's eyes seek the ground. "If — if I

could have cared for him, then — then " She is

covered with confusion. She looks up at him, pleadingly.
" I tell you everything ; but — but "

Well, well, don't go on, if it distresses you," says
Lorraine, laughing. " You've not told me much ; but
never mind, I can guess the rest." Then he stops fora
moment, before he says, " He's a regular beau now,
I suppose ? "

He reads, you know ; he took the highest degree
at Oxford."

Ah ! a double first ! Six feet four, and ugly in
proportion ! " and Lorraine gives himself a stretch.

Allowing for exaggeration, it was Aboyne to the life.

Lady Laure's involuntary silence and a half involuntary
smile give no denial to the unflattering
portrait.

Lorraine turns round short. '' You women," says
he, " only care for outside show ! " After which
remark, he looks moodily out of the window.

To Lady Laure it seems an age that he stands thus.
When he does break silence, he speaks with his back
still towards her —

What's the use of putting it off ? I must go to
your father ! " Then he faces her with rapid words, " I
swear to you, Laure," he cries — '• I swear to you I never
asked for a woman's hand in my life ; either of her or

of any one else ! I would have seen them all at

Well, I mean I would not have troubled any one with
the request."

There is no mistaking the state of annoyance he
is in.

Lady Laure watches him, with eyes full of the

deepest sympathy. She puts it all down to the difficulty
of the situation, and to the diffidence of her lover.
She half begins to speak. She is on the point of again
assuring him of her father's regard ; but this she has
said before, and this he knows ; so she stops and sits
silently sharing his trouble.

I tell you what it is ! It's unbearable. I'll go at
once, and get it over ! If I don't, I shall contract a
hang-dog look that will stick to me all my life ! "

But that climb to the mountain-top; those soft
confessions to the winds ! Lady Laure remembers all
this ; but he has forgotten it. This trouble, she thinks,
is too much for him. If she could but lighten it. She
looks truly distressed.

"I am so sorry — so sorry," says she. "I cannot
bear to be the cause of such — such pain to you. If I
could only do anything ! "

Lorraine starts up to her with a laugh. It seems
to him supremely ridiculous. "Upon my word, Laure,
this is most original. You'll be starting off to ask the

question yourself, to save me the trouble ! I am not

bashful, you know, nor doubtful ; — it's only my laziness."

Lady Laure cannot help it. The tears come into
her eyes. If this trouble is not too much for him, his
constant revulsion are too much for her.

'''•■ Good Heavens ! " is the next word. " Why, you are

crying ! How easily your tears flow ! Cure yourself of
this, Laure. I object to tears." Then he tries a better
method : he strokes her hair, and caresses her kindly.
*you mustn't mind this," he says; "it's only my
way."

And so she smiles again.

"That's right; that's right." He takes both her
hands in his ; he speaks earnestly, feelingly, entreatingly.
" Be happy, Laure ! be happy ! What on
earth is the use of this affair if you are not happy ? "

Lorraine has gone from Lady Laure. He crosses
the hall slowly ; still more slowly he mounts the steps
to his room ; he passes the door, and mounts again to
the upper floor ; then he turns down a small passage
to the room where he expects to find the earl.

Confound it ! " he said to himself. " I don't half
like the game, for myself or for her either. It's all
his doings," and he nods at the door before him.
Nobody in his senses can doubt that ! A deep-laid
plot ; and I, like a fool, have fallen into it. Poor little
dove ! I am not the mate for her ; but the mischief's
done. But even now, I wouldn't stir a step if she had
not taken so desperately to me, I swear ! Well, it's
all a lottery. And now for the ticket. What a prize a
blank would be ! No such luck ! "

And with that he turns the handle, and is face to
face with his father-in-law to be.

CHAPTER Till.

THE ANSWER.

He asked for her love on a midsummer day ;
'Twas partly in idleness, partly in play,
And partly, perchance, for something to say.

The maiden lacks three of her twentieth year,
Blushes shy as his words fall sweet on her ear,
Drops down her blue eyes, but sees nothing to fear.

Sitting out of the sunshine, and into the shade,

Where the citron trees blossomed, and sea-ripples played.

And only the winds heard the vows that they made.

So fair speeds the wooing this midsummer day ;
For the maiden says, " Yes ! " and the father says, " Aye ! **
But there's ever a moral that follows the play.
»
Of late, the earl had betaken himself in the mornings
to a small upstairs room at the east end of the house.
He said it was the rain and the wind driving iron the
south-west and beating upon the large loose window-frames
of the room they used as a drawing-room, that
had sent him away from it. There was too much noise
and too little light, with the vines trailing about outside,
in these days of storms and clouds. These reasons
were very valid, no doubt. Anyhow, he was free to sit

where he pleased. Now he was stationed close to the
window, which was open.

*• I don't disturb yon, I hope," says Lorraine, byway
of a beginning.

Nut in the least. I am very glad of your company.
Mildew has not been up to-day. I suppose it's
the rain. Do you object to the open window ? This
room is too small to smoke in it, shut up. You know
my weakness. I must have my cheroot. \Vhat
weather still! And in these houses, built for line
weather only, of course there are no appliances such
as we have at home."

There was no denying the truth of this statement,
and Lorraine let it pass without comment.

*' The further north you go, the better the indoor
life, I fancy," continues the earl. " St. Petersburg is
perfect, they say."

I am not so sure about Lapland," answers Lorraine,
looking absently out of the window.

Well, no ; the process of being smoked underground
might be worse than being smoked aboveground
in this small room, as I was saying." The
earl laughs at his witty notion; then he pushes
the cigars across. "Good Havana; I dare not risk
the manufactures of this country."

Thank you'* says Lorraine ; " but I won't smoke
just now." He is not talkative, but stands still looking
out abroad.

As you like ; but you are too hardened an offender

for me to apologize for finishing this," and the earl
points to his cigar. " By-the-by, you'll like to see the
Times. I am sorry to say it's gone down to Mildew.
He'll bring it up himself in the afternoon. It was a
little stratagem of mine to get him up here for a game,
you see. I hope it will answer ; I must keep him u[>
to the mark."

Lorraine does not compliment the earl upon his
powers of stratagem, — though quite prepared to do him
justice on that head. He is somewhat dumb now ;
he has not lost his self-possession, but only his flow of
speech. He can think of nothing to say beyond the
plain question he has come to ask ; he feels as little
agitation as he does alarm. If his heart would beat
a little, it might carry him through ; but he is altogether
becalmed. However, he faces round at last, and
makes his request without more preface, and with a
briefness bordering upon the abrupt —

My lord, I have come to ask of you the hand of
Lady Laure."

Bless me ! have you got to that already ? " exclaims
the earl, with a most transparent candour ; but
now the time has come for plain speaking, and the half-finished
cigar goes down. " You want to marry Laure ?
Why, how long has this been ? "

Lorraine tightens his lips, to repress some feeling or
other he does not care to reveal, and says, " A chance,
last evening. I mean a day or two since. I come, of
course, to you."

Of course, of course," smiles the earl. " We must
keep to the prescribed rule in these matters. But
what does Laure say ? "

Lady Laure loves me, my lord," is the frank reply.

Loves you ! Has she said so ? "

Beyond a doubt," was the downright word.

You have acted honourably, Claude, as you were
certain to do ! "

Claude ! This address is more than encouraging, it
is affectionate. Lorraine is not slow to see it ; he feels
he must follow it up with something ; so he begins,
^' We have not met as strangers. Lady Laure and I
are such very old friends. We have known each other
so long."

"And seen each other so little," adds the earl, with
a smile.

That is true ; — but if we had seen each other everyday
for the last ten years, I might not have been here
now." Lorraine speaks honestly.

Why not, why not ? " says the earl, quickly.
It's the most reasonable affair possible, and the most
likely."

Lorraine longed to say a piece of his mind, but he
keeps it perforce to himself.

Well, well," continues the earl. " I suppose
there's not much behind the scenes for either of you —
nothing but what the lawyers can arrange very comfortably.
And as to Laure, I can tell you she is a
sweet-tempered and sensible girl. But this you have

found out fur yourself; and you are an honourable
amiable young fellow. Tired of knocking about ; like
to be settled, eh ? "

"Settled!" A terrible word to ring? in his ears. The
earl looks up in the aspirant's handsome face, which
positively changes colour ; but he is fully conscious of
the claims of this critical moment, and desperately
commits himself to his one speech of gallantry —

I am here," he says, " because Lady Laure Lucie
is the only woman I have ever seen that I could or
would marry." There was a ring of truth in the words,
whatever he meant or felt.

"Honestly said, my dear boy!" was the paternal
reply. " It leaves no doubt in my mind as to your own
attachment. Lucie will soon be here. We shall see
what he says to it."

If Lucie is still Lucie," answers Lorraine, somewhat
haughtily, "obstacles will not come from him ; but
on the other hand, neither does consent rest with him .
My answer must come from you."

He stops, and then seeing the earl about to speak',
he anticipates him. "I ought to say something, my
lord, of my prospects."

Lorraine's voice gets colder with each word. "I
am as poor as a rat ; but, as of course you know, my
uncle Sir Loftus can't live for ever." Something like
sarcasm mingles with the tone of the next word. " You
will, perhaps, consider that I am not much of a match
for Lady Laure."

"My good fellow," cries the earl, "there is no
occasion for this modesty. We old people, as you say,
can't live for ever ; " and he laughed pleasantly. Death,
and even its shadows, were still far enough off, amongst
the evil possibilities, for Lord Bellarmine to laugh at
them. He takes a short step up and down the room.
That poor fellow Aboyne ! " says he, turning with a
face full of sympathy. " This will be a terrible cut to
him. You're doomed to supplant him, Lorraine ! This
puts me in mind of a little event when you were all
children together. No doubt you've forgotten it. He
felt it then ; he'll feel it more now ! "

I have no desire to supplant any one," says Lorraine,
as stiffly as possible.

"No, no; of course not. The word's ill chosen.
You see, it eras extremely natural that Aboyne should
get attached to Laure."

Oh ! extremely natural," echoes Lorraine, stiff as
ever.

"The fact is, however," adds the earl, in a confidential
tone, " Laure has never been anything beyond
friendly, and Lucie the same; good friends, nothing
more. It was not Laure's fault that Aboyne could not
withstand her charms. I have a high esteem for him ;
he takes my views in public matters much more, I
am sorry to say, than my son does. But as for Laure, I
would never force her choice, however desirable a suitor
might be. An imprudent choice," says the earl, with
emphasis, " she could not make. I have had no fears

on that score. I left it all to Time ; and, you see, I was
right ! You have seen enough of Laure to judge how
sensible and prudent she is ! "

Sensible and prudent !

Lorraine feels a cold shudder running all over him.
Has he, then, really been angled for as much by the
daughter as by the father? Has this woman been
simply looking out how to secure a good match in
him ? But before the thought fixes itself, he banishes
it; the memory of Lady Laure's blue-eyed innocence
comes with a rush into his mind, and disarms the
wrongful suspicion. But he has said and heard enough.
He is getting weary of the interview. "I have my
answer, then ? " he said.

You have, Lorraine," cries the earl ; and he gives
a warm grasp of the hand. " I suppose it must come
to this ; there's no help for it. Don't think I don't
give her to you willingly ; but " — and here the father's
genuine feelings come up, and the voice quivers —
•*but take care of her!" Then, brushing something
like a tear away, he changes to a cheerful tone again.
I must find my dear Laure. I must lose no more
time in giving her the assurance of my entire approval."


The earl has tact enough to see that, at any rate
for Lorraine, this conversation had lasted long enough.
At best it is an awkward ordeal for the person who
plays the part of pretender to the fair lady's hand.
He moves to the door, and Lorraine follows him.

I am impatient," says the earl, giving a last word
and a look back — "lam impatient to see how my
little girl looks and feels in her new position. I
wonder how I shall find her ! " Then he waves his
hand, and they part company in the hall.

And I wonder how I look in my new position ! "
mutters Lorraine, under his breath. "I know very
well how I feel, — and that's exactly like the fool that


am.

The wind had risen of a sudden, and raged like a
hurricane ; the weather as well as other things seemed
to be arriving at a crisis. The house shook, the
windows burst open, the doors slammed; abroad
the rain drove in torrents, the leaves flew in clouds,
the branches snapt short ois, — it was a regular war
of the elements.

In the midst of it all Lorraine takes his hat and
goes out. He passes through the citron grove; the
fruit is being wildly torn from the trees. Lorraine
smiles at the work of destruction. " An encouraging
omen, all this ! " thinks he. From the grove, he goes
down by the cliff to the shore. The sea is in an uproar;
the waves are dashing furiously on the rocks
right and left ; the wind has shifted and catches the
coast-line. Lorraine half loses his footing. He plants
his back against a boulder, and there stands, looking
sulkily across the raging waters.

So he remains, reviewing the three momentous
days now closing. Never before has he had any
momentous days, either to look forward or backward
to. A great black gulf seems to have opened between
that happy time and this.

I have been mad," he cries, " madder than this
mad sea ! " In his desperate regret, he forgets all but
the folly he is deploring, and leaving his safe post,
catches the full fury of a wave and falls back, staggering
under the drenching weight.

A comical self-contempt takes the place of his
angry self-reproach. As he shakes the wet out of his
eyes, and sees the white foaming water pouring off
him, he says to himself, **' Friend, I wish you'd taken
this shower bath three days ago ; it might have brought
you to your senses ! "

And then he beats a retreat.

When he gets up to the orange grove, he sees Mr.
mildew before him, going up the garden path between
the myrtle hedges. '* Old villain ! " mutters Lorraine.
I wish he had been petrified with his bones, before
he came across me, with his sneers! I've to thank
him for leading up to all this ! " When he went into
the house, Mr. Mildew was still in the hall.

You seem to like the rain to-day," says he. " As
I came along the hills, I believe I saw you on the
beach half an hour ago."

Yes," said Lorraine ; " I've been treating myself
to a variety of good things to-day."

"Doubtful good, I should say, to judge by this
last enjoyment," replies Mr. Mildew.

Very doubtful," answers Lorraine, grimly.

I should advise you to change everything," said
Mr. Mildew, pointing to the dripping pool that
Lorraine was making on the floor.

You see," said Lorraine, " there are some things
you can't change ! "

"A singularly disagreeable young man," was Mr.
Mildew's mental remark, as Lorraine slowly dragged
himself and his heavy garments out of sight. — " I wish
other people thought as I do ! "

The man gave a sigh of such profound sorrow, a
look of such profound sadness, that if you had seen
them, you would have been sorry for him.

CHAPTER IX.

LOVE.

Stand still, Old Time ; rein in thy golden hours,

And stay their flight.
I am so blest ! ah ! wither not the flowers

Of my delight.
Enough of grieving hearts sigh here below ;

For them depart.
Speed with their days the burden of their woe ;

Leave my glad heart.

Does it not cry, " O day, shine on for ever !

Go not away " ?
And to the night it sighs, " Ah ! leave me never ;

For ever stay ! "
They heed me not — they pass— they mount— they soar.

What do they say ?
Life has no port ; Time has no resting shore ;

Love while you may ! "

"Genaro Patelaeo;" and Maddelena and Giause
and all the rest of them are saying gaily, "Genaro
Patelaro."

It is time that this chorus should be heard, for the
year is now nearly a month old, and this chorus would
say, " Here is calm January again ; now pick up shells
if you will." But it is come at last — this calm January.
And divine, indeed, is the calm ; in one short span of

days, winter had departed, and the sun again was lord
of all.

Traces of the howling storms, so lately raging,
were to be seen, in the levelled vines, the scattered
lemons, the broken boughs; in the breaches in the
roads, and in the swollen streams. But the cloudy veil
had rolled back below the verge ; the wind stirred not ;
the air was calm as a dream of soft zephyrs ; the tawny
hills were turned to a tender purple, and their heights
beheld again the snowy range ; the flowers hid their
dead blooms beneath new budding blossoms ; the rock
swallow, shrill twittering, darted after his tiny prey ;
the honey bee worked and hummed — that bright yellow
bee, famous amongst its fellows; and on the balmy
breeze went the white butterflies in pairs, floating like
happy souls, mistaking this glad earth for paradise.

The houses were empty. The groves, the gardens,
the shores, the mountain-paths were all alive. The
people had got back to their light hearts. They
babbled, they chattered, they gesticulated, they sang,
they danced, they could even work. The beggars
came out; the children clamoured and crowded; all
things were themselves once more, — for the deluge was
come and gone.

Some day it will return. But till then, what skies ;
what suns ; what gorgeous days ; what golden nights ;
what lightly earned food ; what little care for shelter
or for raiment ! How small the wants ! — How large
kind Nature's hand !

VOL. I. K

Lorraine was as glad as any lazy peasant of the lotto
welcome sunshine back again. The deluge, as we
know, had tried his temper ; but even these sunbeams
brought him no perfect content.

This is heat ! " he cries, as he stands lazily
smoking outside the drawing-room window. Lady Laure
sitting within. "Heat with a vengeance," says he.
Here there's no rule for anything, either for summer
or winter. There's that beggar coming up to bother
us. He might be in Iceland for the rags he has piled
up on his shoulders. So it is with all of them ; they
don't distinguish ; — now in India you'll see the native
with a clean cloth wrapped round him ; — that looks cool,
at least."

But that's impossible here," suggests Lady Laure.
What's impossible ? — to be cool and clean ? Oh, I
see, you mean the garb of Eden. Well, — perhaps it is" —
and he throws away his cigar and walks into the room.
Come and work in this corner, Laure ; your bright
eyes don't need the light your father finds so indispensable."


Lorraine laughs ; but the joke is with himself
"Stay; let me move your table. There!" and he
sets it down. " Walking half a yard is enough to kill
one.

He drops indolently into a chair beside her, stretching
out his long legs. " Now we'll make ourselves
as comfortable as we can under the circumstances."
He puts his arm round, and in simple fashion gives

her a kiss. "With full permission of the paternal
authority, Lady Laure ; but it's not the first, if my
memory serves me, by many."

Lady Laure starts with inexpressible confusion.
What did he mean ? Surely at this moment he could
not boast of other women's kisses! But it is sport
to him.

Of the very first," he says, " I have the most
distinct recollection ; subsequent favours I can't particularize."


This is too much," and she rises, looking deeply
injured.

He, laughing always, detains her.

Now listen to me, Laure. The very first kiss mason
this wise : 'Tis about ten years ago since I first tasted
this cup of bliss. Now don't start and stare like a
frightened deer. We were young and innocent then, I
suppose you'll allow. It was upon a winter's night,
not just such a mock winter as we have here. Jack
Frost was king, and held high revel over wood and
moor. On that night, as the clock struck the magic
hour of twelve — it was New Year's Eve, which makes
it all the more memorable — a little lady, beautiful as
the day, or as the moonlit night, or as the stars, stood
on the terrace steps of an old English house "

Lady Laure, beaming with happy smiles, begins to
speak.

Now don't interrupt my poetic flow, and make a
note of it for Lucie — her white robe was like gossamer.

but, to shield her from the sharp night air, round her
shoulders was a boy's jacket, and round her waist a
boy's arm — just thus," says he ; " and on her cheek
a boy's bold lips — just thus, too;" and he suits the
action to the word.

Lady Laure is all blushes, pleasure, and emotion.

So you remember it, do you ? " he says. " Well, ten
years hence, how do you think you and I will remember
this day's rehearsal — of that ? "

Ah ! " she cries, " I have never forgotten you, Mr.
Lorraine."

Mr. Lorraine ! Well, I was Claude then, and since
things are, as they are, I may as well be Claude now.
Call me Claude. It's a curious thing, but the first
moment we met again, I felt inclined to call you Laure.
With you and Lucie mixed up in my head, you see,
I couldn't for the life of me forget our old gambols
together."

I was not sure that you would like it," says she.

Like what ? "

Oh, like me to call you Claude, you know."

Why, you are half afraid of the word now ! " he
cries, laughing at her timid shyness. " Am I such a
Bluebeard ? Why, I thought you took me for a nice
young man."

I never know if you are joking or in earnest," says
she.

Now you have just hit it, Laure, as you often do.
With all your simplicity, you have a knack of seeing a

thing. Yes — the truth is just what you say, and nine
times out of ten I don't know myself."

It was a grave admission, and yet both Lady Laure
and Lorraine joined in a laugh ; but Youth and Love are
not Minos and Rhadamanthus.

Lady Laure is plucking up her courage. " Lucie
has your ring still," says she. Now, from the beginning,
the original owner of the pearl locket has been longing
to ask after its welfare. This, of all moments, is the
most favourable to put this critical question, but even
now it can only come out indirectly.

Has he ? " and Lorraine's face brightens. " Dear
old fellow ! Well, you'll be surprised to hear, after all
these years, and knocking about as I have, that I've
got that locket too, — somewhere with a lot of other old
rubbish."

When you find it you shall give it back to me,"
says she.

She may have taken it hard that this pledge should
be classed with nothing but " old rubbish ! "

Not a bit of it," he answers. " I've got the locket
beyond mistake ; I haven't altogether got you. When
you're both legally mine, — we shall see about it."

CHAPTEK X.

ANTAGONISMS.

Love is helpless, so is Hate,
To destroy the web of fate ;
Hating little, loving less,
Better chance has of success.

Lorraine was as restless as a child with a new toy —
first it amused him, then it wearied him, and then it
worried him. From the outset, he gave but a half-allegiance
to the fair girl he was pledged to wed. If
she won upon him by her artless truth, by her beauty,
by her gentle ways, by the pure joy his presence gave
her, she lost again by the prospective chains and fetters,
that he could always hear the clank of. It was not
Lady Laure, it was marriage that affrighted him — that
"settling," dreadful word! which the earl had talked
about.

Lorraine and Lady Laure followed the general
stampede into the life under the sky. But they did
not go far. She would fain have emulated those early
walks with Mr. Mildew ; but Lorraine was content to
lie under the citron trees, watching the peasants at
their labours, or to sit in the shade of a rock, throwing

ducks and drakes across the sea. He voted climbing
little hills a waste of trouble, — no gain, no glory.

Some day, Laure, we'll go up a real mountain ;
but we'll reserve this break-neck adventure for the
appropriate occasion of our wedding trip ! "

It had taken but a few returning suns to make the
shores and hills as dry as the atmosphere, and to render
this " life under the sky," daily more of a joy.
Lorraine enjoyed it after his fashion; but to Lady
Laure it was a glorified existence. Sorrow had been a
stranger to her life ; yet now, for the first time, she has
learnt the taste of perfect delight. Lorraine fills the
cup for her ; lazily enough, but it matters not ; if neither
tender nor devoted, if capricious and prosaic, he is still
himself — that very self which led her captive. It was
upon his presence that she fed, and found it enough ;
and if unconsciously she felt the need of a fuller
sympathy, she had but to look around and find it, in
the matchless beauty of the world about her — a fit
Eden for so fair an Eve.

By degrees Lorraine seemed to find his legs, or
rather, he grew tired of the sight of peasants and peach
orchards, and even ducks and drakes may lose their
charm. So one day he pointed eastward, and said,
We will go there."

The limits of his wide stretch are the azure

mountains of Italy. The white towns sleep in the laps
of the blue bays. The snowy surf fringes the long sea-line,
telling how rocks and waves measure their strength
together. On the margin hangs the terraced citron,
glistening in its dark foliage; higher rise the green
pine forests, and the dun olive woods, hiding in their
deeds recesses full many a path by waterfall and hollow,
many a wilderness all untrod, many a sunny bank
spangled with spring flowers, fit for my lady's bodice ; —
and higher still rises the rocky range, Nature's gigantic
barrier, unveiled to-day, clear and cloudless ; its fantastic
peaks pierce the blue ether, its bare steeps shine
yellow and red and grey. Now it retires behind the
wooded summits, and now it plants its iron-hued feet
in the depths of this rainbow sea. An inviting land ;
but when all is said, its mastering charm — is colour
indescribable.

For one week they walked with spirit, but with the
next Lorraine begins to flag.

I tell you what it is, Laure," says he, as they are
slowly setting out. " I allow these hills are what you
call charming ; but I am tired of the up and the
down of all of it. Let us depart."

Lady Laure stops short, with a look of unfeigned
regret.

Oh, I see, you mean to say you are not tired of
it. May I ask how long you'll take to get sick of this
place ? I believe I have put the question before ; but
my few ideas are getting addled under this monotony.

Let me see ; you've been here since September, isn't it ?
And now it's January — no, February, I believe. The
month is not essential ; but if you're not tired of this
life by this time, you ought to be, — and that's what I
have to say about it. You are pretty nearly perfect.
I don't flatter ; I believe you know that ; but this sort
of inert contentment of yours, in any other person
would amount to a sin."

A sin ! " says Lady Laure, laughing.

It's no laughing matter, I can tell you — to me at
least. I am not in a laughing mood. I have felt
something hanging over me all day."

Lady Laure is not much given to laughter — a smile
at most is her usual expression of gay feelings ; but
whenever her spirits are lightest, it always happens to
be at the wrong time for Lorraine. "Let us turn
back," says she ; " you are not well, Claude." Even
now the name comes out with an effort.

Not well ! Now, isn't that the way to make a man
ill — to tell him he's not well ? And just as if you
thought it too. It's downright poison to a man to
be always pitied."

Lady Laure looks meekly contrite.

You've an angelic temper, Laure," says he, cheering
up. " Now, why don't you rate me soundly, a&
another woman would? Why don't you call me
Monster,' ' Graceless brute,' and all that sort of thing ? "

This sudden turn in his mood almost brings her to
another transgression, in the way of a smile at least.

"I am very much afraid," says she, shaking her
head, with the smile behind the scenes, " that I shall
never be able to do that ! "

It would be very much better for both of us if you
could," says he. " It comes of that contented mind of
yours, for one thing. But I expect in time I shall
wear it out; you'll get tired of me — at least, some
clay."

Lady Laure plucks up her spirit, "Do you think
I am less constant than you ? " says she.

Less constant than I am, Laiu-e ! Why, who ever
told you to come to me to learn constancy ? Why, I
am not even a tyro in the virtue. No, you must go to
a better tutor than I am. In fact, it's a thing I don't
approve of — it leads people far more into mischief, than
the other thing."

Lady Laure is silent. This is his jest and earnest
again. She hopes it is the one, but it sounds like the
other.

"If you want a proof," he begins, renewing the
subject — " a proof of what I say, look at that old
fungus."

Lady Laure did not pretend to misdoubt the personality
of the old fungus. She looks upon the ground
before her, and maintains her silence.

You don't like him to be called a fungus,
then?"

She raises her eyes gravely. " Why do you ask
me ? " says she.

Why, indeed ? " is the quick rejoinder. " Why,
indeed, since I have every cause to remember your
sensitiveness in this matter. No wonder you look
grave. I'd look grave too if it would do any good."

You have been under such mistakes about him
from the first," cries she.

My dear Laure. Granted ; — but mistakes rule
the world, and therefore they rule me. I don't go in
for Fate, and all that sort of nonsense ; I go in for
mistakes, — and I hold myself to be the greatest mistake
of all."

I do not see that you have anything to do with
mistakes." She speaks pensively, whilst he plays at this
cat and mouse game.

Well, let's take the most recent one. Why, with
my growing aversion to this place, do I remain in it ?
My stopping here is nothing more or less than an
infatuated mistake. I suppose I'm a free agent still ;
yet here I stay, in spite of everything that I feel. I
am not superstitious ; but it's a fact that I'm becoming
positively uncomfortable. I wonder, since we seem to
be under a spell, if we're any of us going to commit
suicide or murder or any amusement of that sort. I
should advise you to keep a strict watch over yourself.
It will be your own fault now, whatever happens ; for
I've opened your eyes — Don't forget that ! "

How dreadful ! " cries Lady Laure, with a shudder.
'' What can make you have such thoughts in this
beautiful place ? "

What has the beautiful place to do with it ? Or, if
it has, it's all the other way. For my part, I think
there's something tragic in the very air. You're always
in a cloud, or above it ; — it's all so unreal. You might
be walking about in Goblin Land. It's all like a picture ;
the rocks and all the things set about for a fine effect.
You don't know whether you're not walking upon your
head, — or what you mayn't be going to do next. There's
nothing about you, to keep you back from any amount
of tomfoolery or worse."

Oh, you make me so unhappy ! " she cries.

Unhappy ! Are you becoming unreasonable at
last ? Why on earth should this make you unhappy ? ""

Is it not enough ? " and she looks at him with
distress in every feature. " Is it unreasonable to dread
murder and suicide ? "

Now you are going back to that, — though you very
well know it's merely a way of saying the place is
becoming insupportable. I'm sure I'm not the only
person who feels it so. There's your father; I can see
he's heartily tired of his life ; he yawns dreadfully."

"He's a good deal alone," says she, with a quick
blush.

He's a good deal with old Mildew, you might say,
which no doubt contributes to the yawning."

He does not come to us — to the villa as he used
to do ; he has not been here for two days, and he has
become silent and absent. He is not what he was."
Well, what he was, and what he is, is not lost upon

you ; the * he ' being, I suppose — friend Mildew. It's
clear what's the matter with him; he's getting tired
too — tired of our faces, tired of the walk up the hill,
tired of that everlasting chess."

Lady Laure sighs. " Perhaps it's true," says she.
When we came here, we talked of going on to Rome
when Lucie joined us. When he comes we can go ;" and
then follows another sigh.

That's not a very likely road to take," says Lorraine.
" But you don't read the newspapers, Laure, and
you're right ; women can do without politics, and with
a very moderate amount of reading of any sort. As for
Lucie, it's my opinion that he and Doomsday will arrive
together."

His friends in Paris have kept him," says she,
excusing the laggard.

And what about his friends here ? " asks Lorraine,
sharply. " I tell you what it is, Laure. Though it's a
miraculous turn for him to have taken, I believe Lucie
has a taste for rows."

Rows ! " exclaims Lady Laure.

Yes, rows ; and he has a chance of gratifying his
taste nowadays. He need not wait in Paris for that.
They say there'll soon be a precious row hereabouts ;
it's been brewing this long while."

But it won't be serious ; they are such quiet
country people here," says she.

Well, quiet country people won't bear everything,
you know. You remember the proverb about the

crushed worm ; and I am with them here, if anywhere
They have a right to kick up a disturbance from what
I've observed myself."

But what sort of disturbance ? Do you think it
will be serious, then ? " and Lady Laure's eyes are
earnestly fixed upon his.

A strike for change of masters," says Lorraine,
which, you must see, may turn up serious. Everything
of the sort must have its ugly points. You see there's
good reason for us to get away."

Oh yes," she answers. " Of course, of course, we
shall go ! " Then she clasps her hands anxiously. " I
am so sorry for this," she says.

Sorry ! Oh, it's all for the best for the people, if
they only stick to it. And as for us, we have only to get
clear off before it begins." Lorraine was making capital
out of these political prospects for his private ends.

I am not afraid for myself," says Lady Laure. " I
should feel safe everywhere with you."

Well, that's a real compliment, Laure, and I accept
it. And now, forget your fears, for I am not likely, as
far as I can see, to leave you behind here."

But Lady Laure's face is still sad, and though she
says no more, she sighs. She is not sighing for herself,
or for Lorraine, or for any one in the row, or out of
it, — except for her friend Mr. Mildew. She sees his
quiet retreat broken up, and himself a wanderer from
his dear mountains and shores ; and she is full of a sorrowful
sympathy. But she dares not impart her kindly

concern to Lorraine ; she feels too certain that, as likely
as not, he may laugh it to scorn, or at best treat her
friend's chances as trifles not worth a thought from
either of them ; so she curbs her gentle impulses, controls
her sweet open nature to the conditions under
which she lives and loves.

Such ever is the lonely law of human affection ; thus,
from the beginning, whether for an hour, or whether
for a life-time, heart with heart travels side by side,,
yet ever apart.

Lorraine sees no further into this, than a woman's
timid dread of she knows not what ; but he counts upon
the result he means to draw from it, and, letting the
matter drop, leaves it for a while to work in silence.
They are crossing the vast olive grove, full itself of an
harmonious sadness. Here there is the abiding gloom of
a nether world ; all is still and soundless as the sleep
of death; the gnarled and knotted trees, hoary and
cramped with ancient growth, and tortured by the ages
into strange spectral shapes, stand like grim sentinels
of Time, each ih his dark circle. A solitary crowd.
Something checks the words in these mysterious shades ;
here even the laughter of a child has a ribald sound ;
the mind is held in bondage to vague and silent
thought.

The open road leading to the low-lying houses
beyond comes with a sense of relief.

I hate dark places," says Lorraine, with a shudder.
We'll go back another way."

We must go up the valley, then," and she points
to a fragrant wilderness, thick with the citron and the
orange.

So they go forward, mounting always higher and
yet higher, till the valley narrows to a wild ravine.
Orange and citron are left behind; only a tuft of
myrtle, or a single pine tree, here and there has found
earth to take root in ; the way grows more and more
desolate, more and more precipitous. Now they cross a
rude bridge that spans the chasm. There is a sound
of rushing water, but its black depths are impenetrable.
Again, they skirt the rugged steep, following
the winding mule-track, till, of a sudden, they can mount
no higher. They are on the brow of the first mountain.
Here rise new ranges, summit beyond summit, — new
horizons greet their eyes, new capes and cliffs come
into the far-stretching coast-line ; the sea spreads into
indefinable distance — they stand amidst the clear, fresh
air, the level world below them.

You walk well, Laure," says Lorraine ; " and it is
worth some trouble. I give in ; it flfapetter up here
than down there ! "

Ah ! " she cries ; " how much better ! But this
is nothing. Along there," and she points to the far
summits, "you must cross four mountains, and then
you will come to the real Alpine heights, wild and
beautiful. Stay ! You can see the white tips." She
lays her hand on his arm. " Ah ! if we were only
there!"

Lorraine smiles. "Do you propose to go there
to-day?"

"To-day! No."

Well," says he, " for my part I'm content to defer
it, too. mountains, I agree, are all very well ; but tome,
enough is as good as a feast. But as for you,
Laure, this is the place for you ; it takes you out of
your still life, and makes a human being of you ! "

Lady Laure laughs. " But surely I am a human
being?"

Scarcely," he says ; " something between a statue
and an angel, with very little of the ordinary woman
about you. But tell me where you have got all your
geography from? If you'd give me five pounds I
couldn't tell you where we are."

Lady Laure looks round. "I have been here
before, or near here ; but it is months ago, when we
first came."

Lorraine frowns. " With your friend, the fungus,
I see."

This time lAdy Laure remonstrates in words.
Don't call hifei' such a name. You know it grieves
me."

Oh, and me too ! As I said just now, it's a calamitous
word ; no mistake about that, at any rate ! "
His voice is cold, and he turns and goes forward before
her along the sloping ridge, leaving her to follow. At
last he stops short, and looks back.

She comes eagerly up to him.

VOL. I. L

What are you doing ? " he cries. " You'll be overrunning
in that way ! "

You are angry with me ; " and she looks at him
with entreating eyes.

"Angry! little fool! I shall be something more
than angry, if you go on in this way. There — go on
before me, that I may keep you in order. Now I'll
say what I was about to do when you gave me that
scare. If you know this place, so much the better;
use your wits to make it out. We must get down
somewhere, and get into the town ; we can drive back
from there. There's some sort of conveyance we can
find, of course."

Lady Laure puts aside her troubled air. " I am
quite sure," says she, " that we are somewhere behind
the red rocks. But you know it may be a long way
behind, perhaps."

The red rocks ! That's where the caves of your

fungus " He breaks short off, and throws his

arm round her. "I swear, Laure, it came out by
chance." j^

She lifts her face to his, in loving confidence. "Ah !
you will never be cured ! " But she smiles as she
speaks.

I am afraid that's true," says he, with a laugh.
** I shall go on transgressing, and you will go on forgiving.
That comes of my being human, and you
being angelic."

He turns her to him, a hand on each shoulder, and

looks long and earnestly into her eyes. " I am not
sure," says he, " that it is a good quality for a woman ;
but, Laure, this, if any, will be our bond of union to
the end."

Then he drops his hands ; but Lady Laure detains
one gently between her own. Something takes the
colour this arduous walk had given to her fair cheeks,
suddenly away, leaving her paler than the lily.
Lorraine is not over head and ears in love, but he
feels his responsibility. He sees in a moment this
ominous change.

You are ill ! " he cries. " I knew it. What's the
use of your trying to walk like a trooper? Women
are so foolhardy ; and now you look as if you were
going to faint." He looks round. " What on earth is
to be done if you fall ill at the top of this horrible
spot ? I dare say there's water somewhere near ; but
how am I to get it? Do you mind drinking out of
my hat?"

He draws her to him, and supports her in his arms.
There is no need of water to bring the colour back,
and the smiles too! This ready sacrifice of his hat
leads her almost to a laugh.

I am not ill," she says ; " not the least ill ; so you
will not have to spoil your hat for my sake ! It was
what you said — only what you said ! "

What I said ! What did I say ? I am always
saying something to bother you. Why do you take
such heed of every sentence I utter ? Words are only

spoken to be forgotten. Kemember that, Laure. We
shall never have any peace if you don't."

And that " bond of union," which was to last to
the end ; — those words which had sent the blood back
to her heart with such a sudden rush, — were they only
spoken to be forgotten ?

Lady Laure forbears to put this perilous question.
She is fain to think that there are words and words
and that These precious ones are to be amongst those
that are indeed " to endure to the end."

Lorraine gives her a scrutinizing glance. He sees
the rising blushes, the gay smile, the returning lustre
of her blue eyes. " Incomprehensible creatures," cries
he, " all of you ! But thank Heaven you've come to
yourself, Laure. And now let's get down as fast as
we can."

It was severe work, this descent, by crag and
boulder, scrambling always downwards; even worse
as they go lower, where trees and brushwood begin.
Lady Laure's skirts catch below, Lorraine's head above,
until she loses strength, and he patience.

Then comes the sound of falling water with a cool,
musical rush, delicious in their ears. They follow after
it, but only to find themselves at the high edge of an
impassable ravine, down which the foaming torrent is-tossing
along between the rocks in angry fury. Once
more they go back to the direct descent, down the
straight steep, beneath a close-growing line of pine
trees, rooted in the rock, with scarce an inch of soil for

nourishment ; — yet they stand firm as the cliff itself, —
winter and summer, the sea winds chanting an endless
song in their ever-green branches.

This coming down is so unlike the going up, —
with its sharp angles and narrow track, like the spiral
of a tower ; now in the sun, now out of it, thinking
that each projecting bluff will be the last, yet always
mounting higher and further, with the sense of remoteness
growing with every step.

This sheer descent is a very different affair.
But at last their toil down hill is over. With this
fringe of fir trees the mountainous cliff ends, and they
come out upon an open plateau. But they are still
among the rocks, a bare and jagged ledge, face to face
with the sea.

After all this labour, and these deep shades, the
sunlit air and the fresh sea breeze come to Lady
Laure with a feeling of infinite enjoyment.

This is delightful ! " cries she.

Lorraine looks to the right and to the left, behind
and before. He is tired, and half sulky. " When are
you going to leave off calling every nuisance delightful?
It's lucky you like this one. You'll have to
send for Jenkins and your night-cap, or dispense with
them for once. We are in a pretty fix, I can tell you.
You had better look out for a sleeping apartment."

It was an impasse, certainly. Before them stretched
the sea. Eastward, a huge rock plunged far into the
wave ; westward, the torrent drove its white rage into

the blue depths, sending back the glassy surface,
marked with a thousand circling lines.

"Delightful! isn't it?" and Lorraine gives an
expressive shrug.

"But, at least, I know where we are," says she,
still cheerful. " Round that great rock are the caves.
"We were to have gone to them by water. What a pity
we can't get round ! "

Don't talk like an idiot ! " says he, in angry difficulty.
"The pity is that we ever came near the
place."

But we have only to walk back ! "

For you to expire on the road ! No, we have had
enough walking for one day."

We shall be able to get across the river somewhere."


Come and see ! " He takes her hand, and guides
her cautiously over the jagged ledge, till they stand
on the brink of the gorge. It bristled with sharp
rocks and broken fir tops. The roaring stream coursed
along its wild bed at lightning speed; — they could
feel the cold blast, borne down upon it with wondrous
swiftness, straight from that calm and lonely lake, up
in the great ice-world, where this restless torrent found
its birth.

What do you think of this ? " says he. "Are you
satisfied ? Better come now and take a seat under the
cliff, Laure, — for the night, probably."

You are not in earnest."

How do you propose to leave this delightful spot ? '*

"I am sure I don't know," cries Lady Laure,
roused at last to a corresponding state of uneasiness.

There, sit down," says he. " I am tired out
myself." And he throws himself down on the rocks
beside her.

So they remain in silent perplexity, Lady Laure
taking her full share of it at last.

Lorraine looks gloomily about him, and then at
his companion. " If you were not here," says he, " it
would be a trifle — nothing. Taking women about in
these places is downright insanity ! "

For your sake, I am sorry I came with you," is
Lady Laure's rejoinder.

Lorraine was in a mood to be aggravated by a very
light offence. " You had better be sorry at once that
there is anything between us."

If Lady Laure had spoken frankly, she would have
said " She — was tired out also " — and when the body
is overtaxed, the nerves are unstrung. In vain she
struggles to be composed; the tears will rise. She
knows the displeasure they will call forth, but she
cannot keep them down.

If it would make you happier," she begins, in a
broken voice.

Then he breaks in, " It's no question of my happiness,
but of yours. Listen to what I say. If it had not
been for you, Laure, I should never have wooed or
wedded. It may be cold comfort to you ; but it is truth.

I have done for you what I would have done for no one
else. And with no other woman should I have got into
such a dead-lock as this. What a fool I was to bring
you here ! "

He speaks in the high key of mental irritation ;
but with his next word his voice falls into that
gravity of tone which belongs to the utterance of all
feelings of sinister meaning. " I knew some mischief
was brewing, though I couldn't have told you what.
Didn't I say it this morning as we started ? "

Ah ! " cries she — she fearing likewise she knows
not what — " that murder and suicide ! Then you
meant it ? "

Of course I meant it. I have meant it for weeks.
Haven't I asked you to get away from here ? " And he
turns moodily from her.

Yes, Lorraine had meant it, — if his meaning might
be interpreted by an indefinable sense of evil, of misfortune
brooding in the air, somewhere and to some one
too vague to be called presentiment ; a sort of mental
malaise, without assignable cause, motive, or object ;
inexplicable associations ; mysteries as insolvable, as
inexorable; enigmas bound up with that greatest of
all enigmas — material death and spiritual life.

Things there are about us, of which it is as vain to
profess a doubt of, as it is vain to profess to explain

them. They are not articles of faith, but matters of
fact ; and among these keyless facts must be reckoned
those organizations endowed with an involuntary forecast
of trouble, — human beings who, like the bloodhound,
have an unerring scent for deeds of doom and
death ; persons not otherwise remarkable, who may
possibly live and die without realizing to themselves
the ominous sense they are possessed of, though it may
well be known and made a note of by some one else,
and who may even, according to circumstances and
opportunity, from time to time, be on the look-out for
it. It is a narrow prescience, too indistinct to become
B. warning — the when, the how, the where, the whom, are
all dark, — a foreboding that comes and goes, like any
other gloomy thought ; yet there it is, and has been,
and there, too, is the evil thing — there in the future ;
some day it will be a thing present, some day a thing
past.

Lorraine knew nothing, thought nothing of all this;
he had even forgotten the tales told in his childish
hearing, of a Celtic grandmother of his race, who would
sit by the fire and watch the peat burn, just after the
fashion of Sir Loftus. The times were bloody, and
when her sons and grandsons saw her shiver and shake
though the peat blazed high — and when she moaned
with the terror of an unspoken dread, then they were
merry, and sent up a shout of triumph, for they knew
that a foe of Loughmore was marked for death.

Whatever the tide may be, when it gets to the
lowest ebb it has a tendency to turn. Lorraine made a
similar remark, first to himself and then to his companion
in misfortune.

It's time our luck should change," says he. " Next
to getting altogether drowned, I don't see that we can
be much worse off than we are."

It was no affected dilemma, exaggerated as a vent
for a fit of captiousness. Sitting upon this rocky ledge
in this sea-girt prison-house, staring across into the
dreamy distance, with the sun's slanting light telling
of the day's decline, and turning over in his mind one
possibility after another, each more unfeasible than the
last — was not a position to be chosen even by way of
a penance.

"Well, standing still won't help us. I tell you
what it is. I must swim for it, and that's the long and
the short of it ; " and with that Lorraine begins to move
with a practical air. " I shall get you away some time
to-night, and that's something. It's no great distance,
and I'll bring a boat for you from the town."

I can't let you go ! " cries Lady Laure. " Oh, you
will get drowned ! You don't know the shore or the
rocks."

You see, Laure, I am not asking your leave to go ;
and I am certainly going to do what I propose. You'll
excuse my taking off my boots and my coat. I'll leave
them in your care. And listen, don't go to sleep, and
don't move about, or you'll fall over some of these
places to a certainty."

"0 Claude, don't go, don't leave me! Oh, dear
Claude!"

Dear Claude, is it ? Well, that's affectionate at
parting ; " and Lorraine begins to laugh.

In fact, his spirits are rising with the prospect
before him, though it was a cold and rather wet one.

The boots are off, and so is the coat. " I shall get
down to that point, and jump off there," he says. " Now
don't scream like the rest of the foolish creatures when
you hear the splash."

He waits for no reply ; he has an instinct perhaps
that it is kinder to her to go without more words,
since go he must.

Lady Laure is as motionless as the rock she sits on,
only her eyes move, following him with a look of deadly
alarm. But she does not — " scream like the rest of the
foolish creatures ; " — the dread she has of his sarcasm
masters even her fears ; yet she feels that when she hears
that splash, she must either give voice to her distress
or die ! She has lost sight of his figure, but she listens
intently, with clasped hands and face bent forward —
listens and listens, but hears nothing. How she longs
to go forward to look after him ! But his words are her
law ; so there she remains, a fit model for Patience upon
her monument.

It might have been half an hour or an hour — to
Lady Laure it seemed a year, that she was sitting
thus. She is borne down with fatigue and fear and
the loneliness of it ; her mind is fast falling into a

dreamy maze, when out of it she rouses with a cry that
the rocks echo back, double and treble — a good honest
scream. But how could she help it ? for there just above
the ledge is Lorraine's handsome face, that face she
has been picturing washed with the salt waves, buffeted
and blinded by them ; there it is before her, the colour
heightened, the hair dry and blown, the eyes sparkling ;
in a minute he is on his feet beside her.

He is in the gayest good humour ; he neither scolds
nor sneers. The boots and coat are restored to their
proper position ; he takes her hands. " And come
along," says he, cheerily. " There's a boat down there.
I'll tell you all about it when we are out of this hole."

There was not much to tell. When Lorraine got
down, the water looked extremely wet and cold ; he was
prepared for his bath, but he would not be sorry to
escape it. Why not clamber over the reefs to the
point of the rock? Some one may be on the other
side. At least there was the chance of a boat insight.
This alternative was not without risk ; it was a
pointed and perilous pathway, and slimy withal. There
was still a probability of the cold bath. But Lorraine's
luck has taken the hint, it is coming back —
coming back, in fact, post-haste and all in a lump ;
but there is yet one more bring-up for him. With the
foremost part of the rock the reefs end ; it is deep
water round the point, up to the sheer precipice. But
Lorraine hurrahs and laughs at this last arrow of ill
Pate — for beyond the rock, in the hollow of the sandy

creek, he sees Hope, in the shape of a boat and two
men ; they are evidently taking stone from the quarry
above. The men look rough and dirty, the boat is
heavy and flat-bottomed, but these are light matters.
Hope, in her most celestial robes, never came in a more
welcome guise.

"The man must carry you through the rocks and
this surf, Laure," says Lorraine. " You don't object, do

you? If you do " and he looks down at the so

lately reinstated boots. " Of course, I'll carry you over
myself, if you prefer it, though I'll not promise you
I won't make a slip of it. You're safer in their grimy
hands, I can tell you."

For the present she is in Lorraine's hands. He has
taken her to the base of the rocks, and they are making
their way slowly and cautiously, step by step, over the
ledge ; sometimes it must be a jump, sometimes a long
step ; it must be done warily. But Lady Laure follows
him firmly, hand in hand ; all her smiles are returned,
fear and dread have vanished.

*' Much safer," she says, gaily.

Take care what you say ! " he answers, in the same
spirit. " If you are ungrateful, I shall leave you in
the lurch after all."

The boatmen require no very heavy bribe to leave
their lading for a lighter cargo. Both of them,
Venetians — on this coast men gather from every
port — they are voluble in their lively tongue ; more
intelligible than the heavy ;patois of the peasants of

the soil ; their black eyes and small features light up
with trusty good nature and native courtesy. But the
embarking is no easy task. It is deep water — fathoms
deep, where the reefs are not — these rocks run as
much below as above ; it takes time and judgment to
choose the favourable spot. But at last it is done, and
they are off !

Not yet can they steer, however, direct for their
port. They must tack and tack to give way to the
current, and catch the wind, running out to sea.
The purple mountains appear in the west; they are
fading into gloom. The sun has already gone down
behind them, but the towering peaks of the red rocks
they are leaving, still catch the golden glare.

Black as night at their base, their heights streaked
as with a fiery scat, the great cliffs have a] terrible
and menacing look.

I never saw a place better fitted for the infernal
regions," says Lorraine, looking back. " I've paid my
last visit, Laure, to your delightful spot to a certainty ! "

Wind and current against them, with this flat craft,
little better than a barge, they don't make way ; the
moments become hours, and sea and land grow dusky
together.

We ought to be off the village," says Lorraine.
Why don't these fellows put in ? "

We must go on to the quay," says Lady Laure.
There is no landing at the village."

flow can you tell ? " he asks, impatiently.

Oh, you know, I used to sail about in the bay with
Mr. Mildew. Nothing can be pleasant."

"Nothing can be pleasant! eh?" and Lorraine
collapses into silence.

At last the quay is reached. The boat is made
tight, and they step on to the raft which acts as a .
The lights round the small harbour, and in
the little city high above them, glimmer like stars —
the only ones to be seen, and like lamps they glimmer
beneath the water.

It was twilight, or rather no light. Here, under
this semi-tropical sky, the twilight was sable, rayless,
and shadowless.

Are you up to walking ? " asks Lorraine, as they
go along together.

That sail has quite refreshed me. I enjoyed it
immensely."

Ah ! " says he, " I remember you used to find
nothing pleasant ! "

The half-angry smile that went with the words was
spared to Lady Laure. On her side, in this cheerful
ending of a long day's chequered doings, she remits
her timid guard — forgets all troublous things — even
Lorraine's antipathy to Mr. Mildew.

Here is his house," says she, as they skirt along
by a long bit of sea-wall, — the house built, as it were,
into it — right upon the shore.

Whose house ? " asks he. The surly tone betrays
the uselessness of the question.

Oh, you won't care to know ! " She speaks
tremulously ; she remembers it all again.

"I tell you what it is, Laure. Why is that old
Mildew for ever in your head? If you can find
nothing else to think about, don't force me into it.
I hate the sound of his name, as you very well know."

The words were scarcely uttered, when they came
right upon the man, and upon the earl too. They were
face to face before they saw each other.

Laure ! Lorraine ! " cries the earl. " This is a
mercy ! You have given us a grand alarm. Are you
all right? Where have you been playing truant all
day ? Half the village is out searching for you."

"Dear father, I am so sorry — so vexed; but it
was impossible to prevent it," says Lady Laure, in
regretful excuse.

It was utterly inexcusable on my part," says
Lorraine, slipping up to the side of the earl, and
turning back with him. " But, in fact, owing to my
stupidity, we missed the way, and were delayed over
there by the rocks for a length of time, and at last
we were obliged to come off in a stone-lading lug. I
hope Lady Laure has taken no harm, but I feel terribly
guilty of your natural anxiety."

"My dear Lorraine, I knew she couldn't be in
safer hands, as I told mildew, though he was slow to
take comfort — and, in fact, one never knows what maybe
happening. We have been walking since six — now
this way, now that ; but all's well that ends well."

Lady Laure and Mr. Mildew followed behind. In
this darkness-visible, faces and forms were but faintly
discerned; and yet the night is a great medium for
unspoken feelings. Lady Laure felt, rather than saw,
that Mr. Mildew was full of something more than
concern, something more than glad relief — a quivering
emotion, mingled with displeasure ; — she felt it all.

Dear friend," says she, " you have been uneasy.
I know it so well."

*•' Thank God, you are safe — safe for to-night ! "
is the husky reply. Then comes, as if half aside, not
meant for her ears wholly, "I am never easy — never
easy."

But why ? " she asks.

"I am full of fears."

'• But why — why are you full of fears ? "

He hesitates to reply. " You must pardon me. Let
it be unsaid. I have no right." And again he hesitates.


'• But you have every right. You are my father's
oldest friend, and my dear friend — wise and kind and
good. Tell me what is wrong."

Not now, Lady Laure, not now."

He speaks hastily. Then with an effort, as if the
words cost him dear, he turns to her abruptly with,
Where have you been with that young man ? "

Lady Laure blushes crimson, though no eye can
see it. Up to this moment, between her and Mr.
Mildew not a word had passed, either as to Lorraine

VOL. I. M

or about her engagement, neither of praise nor blame,
neither of confidence nor encouragement. She could
not recall that his name had been so much as mentioned
between them. This reserve had not struck
her as half so strange, as this sudden remark in which
he figured ; — and yet it was the most natural question
in the world. All this comes with a rush into her
mind, and stops her words.

Let it pass," says he, answering her silence ;
what good can it do ? It was rashly asked. I
intrude on your confidence."

But it is nothing — nothing," cries Lady Laure,
gathering up, not her courage, so much as her scattered
convictions. — "It was only a long walk, and we lost
the way, and came at last down near to your wonderful
caves, though we could not visit them. How
much I Lavish you had been there ! " In all these
words there is a careful avoidance of Lorraine.

Ah ! " he says. " Yes ; I must go there once
again, for the last time ; " and a sigh follows this
speech.

I feared as much," says Lady Laure, " this upsetting
they expect here. How grieved I am that it
should break up your happy home ! "

Say peaceful. Peace I have coveted ; happiness
I have nothing to do with."

Oh, but you used to be so cheerful ! " cries she.

Did you not deem it an unseemly garb for me
for my grey hairs ? "

"I!" says she. "But you know what pleasant
days we passed together ! You are not well. I have
thought so for many days. Something makes you
sad."

He answers, in a low and hurried way, "Think
nothing of it ; it is my natural self. God only knows
why you have ever seen me otherwise."

Mr. Mildew was fast becoming another enigma to
Lady Laure. Up till these latter days, his words had
been plain and pleasant, full of kindly friendship and
wise instruction; but now, — Lorraine's darkest moods
and speeches had never been harder to read, or, indeed,
more harassing to hear. But she takes it quite differently
from Mr. Mildew. Lorraine is always half
in jest or mockery; but Mr. Mildew, she knows, she
feels, speaks in sad and sober earnest. To lead him
from this gloom, she seeks in her mind for some
hopeful, possible thing.

You will not go away altogether? " says she. " You
will come back when all is quiet ? "

When the sight is gone, why say, * Look and be
glad ' ? For neither quiet nor unquiet do I come or go.
I should have rejoiced to stand by my people here ; but
no ; I go sooner than that. My life has grown dark of
late ; it is in myself alone. These hills are still
crowned with their everlasting beauty, but the joy is
gone out of them for me. And I, a solitary man,
move off easily, and am not missed."

But you will be missed," she cries ; " missed by

every one — by me. Oh, by me, so much ; and by my
father ; by these poor people, who will mourn for you
all their lives, and never find such another friend.
But as for us, we shall soon follow you. It is not so
bad after all. We shall all meet in England. When
we say good-bye, we shall have this hope, at least."

No, no," he murmurs, speaking again as to himself.
" Where I go, you will not follows God forbid !
We must be wide apart — wide apart ; to you, sunshine,
flowers, and friends ; to me a dark corner — a peaceful
home. Lady Laure."

*' Ah ! you will be less sad some day. Some day
we shall meet in England. You will come to us.
What pleasure ! "

England and I shook hands for ever, long, long
ago. You were not born, and I was young. It is a
strange thought that I was ever young ; that you can
ever be old. Ah ! fear not ; beautiful souls are always
young ! " And then he falls, with sighs, into silence.

Lady Laure is too simple for weird fancies. This
melancholy voice, these desponding words breathed
with such heavy sighs, this dark, featureless figure
moving beside her, is still Mr. Mildew ; but the
mystery of the change from what he has been, to
what he is, fills her with helpless sympathy and awe.
She loses her grasp of the past. She cannot bring up
before her now, that calm, wise man, following Nature's,
ways, with loving steps, happy and contented therewith.
She only sees the half-crazed soul, with its

strange despair. If she knew but what to say, and
which way comfort was to be found !

Then she cries aloud, " Ah ! if Lucie were only
here ! "

I shall never see him," says Mr. Mildew ; " and
yet I have wished that I might do so." His voice is
out of the pathetic key. It becomes stern in the effort
to be firm. " Yes, I have wished to see him — your
father's son — your brother. He must be different —
different indeed, to that other ! " All the condemnation
that words could utter, the voice expressed.

Ah ! " cried Lady Laure, her heart beating
quickly with intuitive pain. " Ah ! You do not like
him ; and yet — and yet he is my betrothed ! "

"And yet he is your betrothed," falls cold and
clear from Mr. Mildew's lips, like stones dropt into a
watery depth. " Would to God he were not ! "

You wound me to the heart," murmurs Lady
Laure, faltering, and trembling in every nerve.

I am silenced." It is the same icy tone. " I aman
old man — an over-bold old man."

Be kind, be kind ! " she cries. " Don't speak tome
so coldly, so formally. You are not old — not
bold; but try — try to like him! Say you will try,
dear, kind friend. You are wise and good ; you know
so much; but you do not know him well. Speak tome.
Promise me to be his friend. He is so dear
to me ! "

Ah ! " breaks from Mr. IVlildew. It is a sigh and

a groan, both in one. But again he steadies his voice.
His utterance is slow, as if reluctant, yet compelled.
You will have me speak. Then, I say, I know him
only too well. It seems to me that I am the only one
who does know him. And yet, what I know is so clear,
that, having the right use of his senses, it would seem
to be impossible for a father to be so blinded ! Though

your innocent heart But I am presuming again

with my unwelcome truths ; and all in vain. This I
know also : I am worse than useless ; therefore I desired
to have quitted you before these rash words were spoken.
All my concern for you gives me no warrant to utter
them. But blame your own gracious indulgence : you
have called me friend. You have spoilt the old man ;
but his last offence has been committed. Let him
be forgiven ; his voice will soon be beyond your
hearing."

There is no offence — no forgiving " The

words come with a sob, and so break off.

Lady Laure is in a sore strait. Her faith in her
lover, and her faith in her friend are strong as her
desire, to vindicate the one and console the other. But
no more is to be said to-night on either side, for they
have reached the road close to the villa, and they
hear the earl's voice chiding their delay —

Is that you, Laure ? Where are you lingering,
little runaway ? Tired, eh ? after your day's truanting.
Couldn't get on, eh? No wonder. You must feel
quite starved too, and Lorraine also. Well, we'll soon

give you some dinner. And you, Mildew, you'll come
in and join us ? "

But Mr. Mildew stood in the background, and
waved a silent good night, and so went.

What's Mildew off so quick for ? " says the earl.

Oh, he's not in good spirits," sighs Lady Laure.
He's going away."

Going away ! Why, he said nothing to me about
it, though I did remark that he was silent. He's been
silent of late ; I've thought so. But going away ! Are
you quite sure, Laure ? "

Oh yes, and at once," she sighs again.

Bless me ! You surprise me ! Why, I thought
he was a fixture here for life! But where is he
going ? "

He doesn't know himself, I think. It's too dreadful,
dear father. Try and stop him ! "

God bless me ! " says the earl. " But now, Laure,
make haste and put yourself ready for dinner, and I
must do the same."

Lorraine looks in at the window, and, seeing Lady
Laure, comes up to her. "We thought you'd gone to
sea with your wise man of Gotham," says he, with
one of his sneers. He goes half away, then turns sharp
upon her with, "What in Heaven's name could you
find to be saying to him all that time ? We've been
here this half-hour, just as if we weren't all dead tired
and half starved."

I am very sorry," says she.

"But what were you talking about? — we heard you
behind us in full parley. Mystery?" says he, with
another sneer.

Oh, no mystery ; he is going away for ever."

Well, so are we ; at least, I hope so. If we were
not, I should call this the best bit of news I've heard
this long while. I hope he'll go tomorrow. He hates
me, and I don't love him ! " He turns to leave the
room, as the earl comes into it again.

"Papa," says Lady Laure, "I believe I am
knocked up. I think you shall excuse me from
dinner."

Much better, my darling. Go and get a good rest;
but make Jenkins bring you up something to your
room."

Lorraine is standing in ambush at the foot of the
stairs. "I overheard you," says he, angrily. "It's
not that you're tired ; it's that old mildew ! "

Perhaps it is," says she. " And you, you are so
hard-hearted to him ! "

Hard-hearted ! " and Lorraine laughs. " Shall I
tell you what it is ? He's going off to get out of the
row. So don't go wasting your pity upon him, whilst
he's sleeping, as sound as a top. Take my word for it,
he's quite old enough to look after himself ! "

Chapter XI.

FRIENDSHIP.

Pure as sweet childhood's bloom some perfumes are,
As hautboys soft, and fresh as meads in spring ;
Corrupt and luscious others — stronger far,
That long endure, and wide their odours fling,
Like incense, musk, benzoin, which control,
With strange harmonious transports, sense and soul.

After C. BaudeLaiee.

In the charmed circle in which Lady Laure had grown
to womanhood, the only element that was missing was
the "mother;" but this left her little to lack, save
the wisdom of the serpent. The innocence of the dove
was hers, blended with an intuitive discretion. The
spirit of love dwelt in her with a crowning repose. She
walked the earth in the halo of purity, with a dignity
that came by nature, with a heart as fair as her face,
with a soul as earnest as her voice, with a charity
scarcely less than divine.

Gracious gifts; yet not those that command the
positive in human happiness, — it was the wisdom of
the serpent that was missing : that discerning power
which detects the safe from the unsafe ; that inspiration
which can avert and avoid misfortune : that

fascinating influence which masters the minds of
men.

In that sublimated sphere where the angels sing
and fold their wings — there, without a metaphor, you
might well have placed her ; but in this lower planet,
where imperfection is the key-note of life, her perfections
were more hazardous, than many faults. In
more ways than one has the ligne droite quelque chose
dee fray ante.

The next day dawned with a rare beauty that
shamed sorrow and ill humour. It was a day to catch
in the camera and fix it there for ever. All sunshine,
flowers, odours, and breezes ; fresh, fragrant, balmy ;
nothing unquiet, nothing in repose. Earth, sea, and
air vibrating to each other with a subdued rapture.
It was a day that made of mere existence an incomparable
pleasure.

Lorraine was bestir early — earlier than usual ; but
Lady Laure was more than after time.

She appears at last, with something of a weary step,
and a weary look in her fair face.

You are tired ! " says Lorraine. " Well, no wonder.
And you went off in such a mope, without your dinner
too ! I have been thinking about you," says he, " all
the morning."

Lady Laure smiles and cheers up at this affectionate
speech.

While you've been sleeping off your troubles, I've
been doing Guess what ! "

Lady Laure shakes her head.

"No, you'll never guess; unless you are, indeed,
the witch your father calls you. It's the most unlikely
thing in the world. But there's nothing that a woman
won't inspire. Imagine ! to please you, I've turned
poet."

Poet ! " says Lady Laure.

Your poet, Laure. Who'll say that I shan't rival
Petrarch in time? I'll match you to cut out his
Laure, at any rate. I suspect, she was rather a dowdy
prude."

Lady Laure blushes up to the eyes. Lorraine a
poet ! inspired by her. Ah ! let the verses be what
they may, how welcome, how sweet they will be to
her ears ! The blue eyes brighten ; the look of
lassitude is gone, the heaviness of a night of distressful
thoughts passes away like a shadow. After the first
moment of surprise, she becomes all impatience, yet
too nervous to say, "What is it?" She could weep
for joy. She murmurs, " Dear Claude ! "

Are you curious ? " he asks.

Tell me the subject, at least." And then the
blue eyes drop down, too bashful to meet his reply.

The subject, Laure ? Well, that you may know
at once. The subject, or rather the chief personage,
is a whale."

A whale ! " echoes Lady Laure ; and with the

name of this monstrous fish, all her trembling train of
tender sentiments float away.

Yes, a whale. It's an original idea, I flatter
myself," says he, with a smile. " I see you're dying
of suspense ; and, I dare say, you've eaten as little
breakfast as dinner, and have no stamina in you to
bear up ; so I won't be too hard upon you. Here is
my effusion," and he takes out the torn back of a
letter. " You see, it's short. I'm not going to wear
you out, as some poets do. It's but three triplets.
Let me see. Now, listen ; I begin with the whale.

Did a whale come sailing here,
I would say to him, ' My dear,
Just effect a landing near.

• There's a nice old tender gent,
Who these shores does much frequent.
Eat him up. I'll not prevent.'

Then, too late, this gent will see
What has come of worrying me.
On the borders of third sea !

Sea ' and * see ' — defective rhymes ; but, however, it's
allowable."

Lady Laure sits stunned with the sense of a great
blow, with the feeling of a stab in the heart from a
dearest friend. The tears that love's gentle chord had
stirred, swell larger and larger to this bitter appeal,
until the great drops blind the loving blue eyes, and
hide from this injured one, her unblushing, saucy,
frivolous, /a/i/aroTi, and too fondly adored lover.

Yell, Laure, it has a smooth run, hasn't it ? It's
not so bad for a first attempt. There's some hope for
our joint fame ; eh ? " —

But what's this ? In tears again ! He's not eaten
up yet ! " Then Lorraine looks black. " You make
one downright savage ! " cries he. " Can't you take
a joke ? "

Say no more about it. Please, say no more
about it."

But why on earth cry ? "

Don't ask me. I am hurt — disappointed."

Hurt ! Disappointed ! Well, that's grateful,,
when I devoted two hours, whilst you were sleeping
this morning, to composing these lines to please you."^
Lorraine puts on a sermo-comical injured air.

It produces a convulsive sensation, half a laugh,,
half a sob. Then she wipes her grieved eyes, and
looks up at him with an effort to make him serious.
To please yourself. You enjoy nothing so much as
these unkind jokes about him."

Oh, then, you recognize the gent ? " and Lorraine
begins to laugh at the association of ideas. "Well,
Laure, let it be to please myself, if you like. Then
what pleases me should please you."

You know," says she, " you don't expect me to
be pleased with this. I believe you'd be the first to
see it, if I was. And when he's so depressed, too ! "

'• Depressed fiddlestick ! Do you expect an old
fellow like Mildew to be always cutting capers for joy ?

If we live long enough, you'll see me depressed after
the same fashion. Old men ossify or drivel. Life,
take my word for it, after middle age, is a sorry affair.
Till then, Vogue la galere ! as they say in France."

You see Mr. Mildew," says Lady Laure, " always
in wrong lights. He is younger than my father."

Well, truth to speak, your father is not a juvenile ;
and these old moles turn to stone sooner than a manlike
the earl, who has lived for life."

"Mr. Mildew," cries she, "has lived for the best
life. He is so learned ; he knows everything, understands
everything."

"And is he any the happier than the next jolly
toper you'll meet in an inn tap-room ? "

I am sure I don't know," and she answers mournfully
enough ; the scene so afflicting of last night
coming vividly before her eyes.

But I do know. However, cheer up. There he
is in the flesh, talking to your father ; " and Lorraine
points down the path to the gate at the end of it.

Oh, pray burn — tear up those lines ! " cries Lady
Laure, with agitated entreaty.

On the contrary, I shall send them, with a portrait,
to the next Punch."

Oh, you won't ! I am sure you won't ! " and she
clasps her hands. " Oh, don't send them ; they are
not at all good! You'll get laughed at. Whales
don't come here and eat men."

Oh ! oh ! " laughs Lorraine, fairly in fits. "Bravo !

That's good. One word for me, and two for Mildew.
Isn't that it, Laure ? "

But Lady Laure makes no reply; her eyes are
fixed on the proceedings at the garden gate. Mr.
Mildew is leaning forward on the long stick he carries.
The earl suddenly leaves him, and goes into the house
by a side door, then quickly reappears, followed by
Burton, bearing a glass, apparently, of water.

He is ill ! he is ill ! " she exclaims. " What can
be done ? "

Lorraine, too, is watching the dumb action.
Folly ! " he cries. " The man is thirsty," and he
sings, sotto voce —

Of his glass is the old man thinking,

As he leans on his oaken staff;
See his eyes all drowsily blinking,

As he swallows his half-and-half.

That's what's the matter with your friend, Laure."

With an " Oh ! " a start, and a flush, and a mute
protest in every feature. Lady Laure is up and gone —
gone with outstretched hands, down between the myrtle
hedges, to meet Mr. Mildew.

Lorraine, in his turn, starts, flushes, and frowns.
By Heaven ! " he mutters, " I believe I'm jealous of
that old mummy ! "

CHAPTER XII.

WATCH AND WAIT.

What though fortune seem to hate,
Neither hope nor heart abate ;
For if thou but watch and wait,
If thou early strive and late,
Thou shalt win or conquer fate.
Of thy foe a friend create,
Turn to love all former hate.
Time and chance, or soon or late,
Come to all who work and wait.

Thou shalt win or conquer fate." But how ? What
manner of victory will it be ? AVill the all, the end
brings, be the all hoped for ?

Some way or other life settles down ; some way or
other we bend our backs to our burdens ; some way or
other we accept our good days or our bad, our adversity
or our prosperity, and mainly with the unalterable at
the back of our acceptance ; some way or other great
souls reap the harvest of their sowing ; and some way
or other those who have sown but little, and that little
rubbish, reap their harvest, — often a profitable one.

But why do we say " rubbish " ? Are we able relatively
to weigh the value of human performance?

Can we fathom the agencies at work in human nature ?
We talk of great souls and of small souls, as we see
them, not as we know them. As some philosophers
admit only the idea of matter, so we view good and
evil — we see their existence, not their proof; all those
conditions which are at the root of each individual
will — motives, temptations, hereditary organization —
we have no acquaintance whatever with.

Into this consideration neither religion nor education
can broadly enter ; for, as far as we can judge,
education controls the conduct, but leaves the conscience
where it was, and religion, if genuine, is the
fruit of a congenial soil, not a plant of indiscriminate
growth. To our apprehension, there are souls made of
clay, — hearts made of stones or feathers, — brains that
do not get beyond animal instincts. Yet a moment may
come — long delayed — when the clay becomes spirit,
the heart fire, the brain intellect. After all, between
them and us it has been only a question of time.
Onl)^ the Infinite measures beforehand the limits of
the possible ; therefore, charity, which believeth all
things, reaches nearest to the Mind Divine.

A few words are due to Mr. Mildew, for, in spite of

our hero's low estimate of him, he deserves them.

This man had lived and suffered, and yet out of the

desert of his life, had made a great flower garden.

VOL. I. N

What higher merit exists than this ? But his history-must
speak for him.

Personally, his portrait is not hard to draw, for
it has marked points. Something gaunt, tall, and
weather-beaten ; the long hair, sparsely grizzled, falling
from the broad head far back on to the shoulders ;
keen blue eyes ; straight, overhanging brows ; inclined
forehead; nose, direct and developed; mouth,
full and square. If you had met him upon the Cumberland
hills, dressed in his long, shapeless coat ; loose
neck-tie, limp and washed out, beaten by many stones ;
grey leggings, and long staff, you would have looked
round for sheep and dog. But if you had taken a
nearer note, you would have found a type of man
differing from the pastoral shepherd's, in the noble intelligence
of the thin, high nose; in the breadth of
thought of the wide-lined brow ; in the quiet force of
the well-cut mouth, — a mouth that told of sympathy
and serene reproof, a merciful mouth to pass sentence
upon you, and a stern one to set your sin before you.
In Mr. Mildew you would have beheld an honest man,
yet of many sides ; a man of intense humanity, yet a
severe recluse ; a man of many sciences, yet shunning
the world of letters ; a man of cold exterior, yet of
imperious impulses. This was Mr. Mildew of the
present.

Mr. Mildew of a distant past was quite a different
person. There was no information in this little bay
why Mr. Mildew came to live upon its shores. The

spot had clearly suited him ; for winter and summer,
for twenty years, he had rarely wandered twenty miles
east or west. These mountains and shores had taken
the place with him of country and kindred. He spent
his solitary days in beholding their beauties, in studying
their treasures, and in befriending the peasant folk
who lived about in them.

Unto the other half of Mr. Mildew's life, which had
gone before this one, there belonged a history, pathetic
enough for those who can be moved without a grand
sensation.

The only son of a wealthy banker, in his youth he
lacked nothing that money and position and intellect
and good looks could secure for him. exit twenty the
handsome Horace Mildew was also the happy, in the
most light-hearted sense of that variously interpreted
word. In those days his manly face was bright
enough. Foremost in every academic race, whether of
sport or study, few men of his University were his
match in either.

No youth can be all this, without cherishing high
hopes of future distinction, and Mildew was as ambitious
as the rest ; but two things were against him :
Fate was too hard, and his heart was too soft. First,
he fell in love. The object of his affections was his
superior in rank; but this proved no bar to his pretensions
— his fair promise was held to be equal to
lier position ; to this, perhaps, should be added his fair
purse.

The Fellowship he had won was yaiued, not for its
pecuniary advantage, but as a University honour,
to be relinquished again almost as soon as secured.
Up to this period his life had flown on as smoothly
as a summer sea ; but from the moment of his engagement
the breakers appeared.

The first coup was the sudden failure of his father's
firm. The elder mildew had been that anomalous
thing, a sleeping partner ; but his share in the losses
was active enough. It was a complete smash ; everything
was gone. Everything went to the hammer — town house
and country ; stables, wine, land, even the very trinkets
of his wife's dressing-table, and the knitting-pins out
of her work basket, — all was remorselessly swept away.
There was nothing now for the petted son of this unfortunate
house but to take up his cross and bear it.

And what became of his marriage ? His marriage !
He had nothing to marry upon. But the lady took
the initiative, and withdrew from the engagement on
the plea of not being a burden to him in his difficulties.
His College pressed upon him the Fellowship
he had but just resigned; but he was too proud to
accept it in an irregular way, and went up to the
University to work as a private tutor.

His father died mysteriously, some said by his own
hand. His mother, poor lady, followed her husband
speedily; both dying within a year of the great
catastrophe.

With his mother's death, the small fortune settled

on herself devolved upon her son. Thus it came to
pass that, when all was done that could be done, when
he had followed both parents to the tomb, and before
the grass had grown green on their graces, Horace
Mildew broke up his life at the University, and, bidding
farewell to the few fi-ends that stood by him, quitted
England for ever.

It is an old, dub, and too common story, which
needs no comment; and Horace mildew suffered no
more than other men have suffered who, starting withall
the world has to give, come to be broken up and
banished from it in their prime, and condemned for
life to exist poor and obscure. But he made his trial
heroic by the way he bore it. Some may say that
it would have been a better thing, with his talents, to
have kept ambition still as his goal, and worked his
way up to fame. But this was not in the man. Fame
and ambition he put behind him ; but his talents he
kept always to the fore, letting neither head nor heart
run to seed.

Lord Bellarmine and Mr. Mildew were contemporaries
of the same year, and members of the same
College, the difference between them being that one
got a double first, and the other wore a silk gown.
Yet they were close friends. It was, in fact, with a
cousin of the earl that sit. Mildew fell in love. Lord
Bellarmine took an ordinary degree, and then went
abroad ; and on his return to England, after a two years'

absence, he found bis cousin married to another, and
bis friend vanished no one knew were.

When it was talked about in the little neighbourhood
that an English " milord " bad taken the Villa
Grimaldi, and that his name was Earl Bellarmine,
Mr. Mildew at once knew who was coming.

But be gave a cold ear to the report ; be bad altogether
done with the time in which this man had been
bis friend. Nor bad be even so much as a passing
wish to break through his rule of refusing all English
acquaintance, amongst the few stragglers from the
British Isles who, in those days, found their way to
these shores.

When the family arrived at the villa, he did not
even inquire of what it consisted. His sole precaution
was that, of taking many a wide circuit to avoid a
meeting.

Ma che sark sara."

And Lady Laure, from the moment she fell in love
with this enchanting spot, was marked out to be the
fair Fate that ruled jMr. Mildew's latter destinies.

The earl had given in to her fancy of remaining
hereabouts with a fatherly grace. A certain amount
of dulness, and a certain amount of sun, he made up
bis mind to; but he was ready with the sacrifice to
please bis daughter.

As for Lady Laure, her heart beat high with the
concession she had won. She was not made up of
fancies and caprices. It was more her way to like all
things a little, than one thing very much ; but in
this case her heart was set upon it, and she felt like
a fortunate princess, whose fairy godmother had created
for her enjoyment, a garden of delights, and placed
her in the midst of it ; with free permission to wander
alone in it from morning to evening. Of this free
permission she availed herself without stint. She
found all she wanted close under her eyes. The hills
and the woods rose above and about the villa; the
wild flowers grew under her feet; the sea murmured
day and night in her ears.

Thus it came about, that, like Flora, full handed
with sweet blossoms, she encountered Mr. Mildew one
morning in her rambles, and, with her charming smile,
asked him the way.

Instinct told the anchorite that this was Bellarmine's
daughter. Mr. Mildew succumbed at once.
The sweet Madonna face smiling upon him in all the
charm of its youth and beauty ; the graceful motion,
the well-bred manner, the voice soft and low; — it
conquered the poor man. It was an Angel of light
that crossed his path. Whichever way she went, he
could not choose bat follow.

So words gathered up between them. He carried
her flowers, and added to her store, and told her where
others grew. And then he told her further, that once,
on a long-forgotten time till now, her father had been
bis close friend, and that he had loved him well.

Lady Laure accepted this welcome adventure as
the natural production of this happy soil. It inspired
her with pleasure, not surprise. She laid her commands
upon him with a sweet and easy insistance, as
if the kind chance had come of recent expectation,
and carried him off to breakfast as treasure-trove.

The earl met his old friend with the heartiness of
unmistakable satisfaction. He commended Lady Laure
for her discovery, chided Mr. Mildew for concealing
himself, congratulated him warmly upon being alive.
But the chief thing was, that he showed himself
beyond measure cordial.

Mr. Mildew fell into his place again, as if he had
never left it. The husk that had been hardening so
long round this kindly, ill-used heart, broke away
all at once. The cheer of a lightened spirit came
into his honest eyes; his voice, that index of the
mind, lost its undertone and grew into a ring ; and,
as the heart grew brighter and the step lighter,
an observant eye might have noticed that the shapeless
coat gave way to something sprucer, and the
battered hat and the washed-out neck-tie were not to
be recognized in their comely replacements. In this
renewal of the magic light of other days, all things

changed for Mr. Mildew into " something rich and
strange."

It was a third Heaven, yet not to be reached, but
through a corresponding Purgatory. Starve a goodman's
heart for twenty years, and then suddenly set
before it the grateful fare of genial brotherhood, and
woman's lovely face and gracious presence, and the
chances are that the starved heart becomes full to
overflowing. So the old ruts of Mr. Mildew's ways
of life and feeling were altogether obliterated.

It is no use disguising it ; — it was all Lady Laure's
doing. No fair saint in cloistered shrine ever worked
more miracles on mortal behalf, than she in favour of
i\[r. Mildew. Her artless, womanly words; her ingenuous
thoughts ; her absorbing interest, as in glowing
sentences he imparted to her the rich gleanings of his
own mind ; her girlish pleasure in following him asher
guide far and near in these lovely scenes; — all
this crowned his seared life with roses, even at fifty
years !

In the long early mornings of the fresh arrival,
before the sun was full and high, Lady Laure and her
grey Squire might be seen taking their way betimes
by terraces and groves, by shore and rocks, by arduous
heights, up to a lofty world of purple hills and waving
summits, of crags, and streams, and barren steeps.
He took her to monastic dwellings, far back in the
deep mountainous recesses. They stopped before
Sanctuaries, each with its sacred legend or tragic tale.

He led her to where the dizzy path, cut in the living
rock, hung over the sheer descent into sea-depths
below. He showed her the patriarchs of the olive
woods, and bade her picture the soldier of imperial
Kome, walking beneath these self-same shades. He
took her up by tangled wildernesses to the old olive-mills,
where the noisy torrents come dashing down the
gorges, filling the ducts and turning the rude wheels.
He taught her the mystery of extracts and perfumes,
till her heart was bent upon making her own sieur
derange without delay.

In the warm, dusk evenings he answered for all
safety, and sailed with her across the bay, to where
the fishermen, their fire-baskets at the prow, pushed
through the clear shallows, and speared the great
cuttlefish in their soft sea-bed. He gave her a lively
horror when the briny monster was displayed, ink-bag
and hairy arms, all intact.

He taught lier why the sea was blue, and why the
rocks were hard. He lectured upon rainless tracts, and
extinct species, and bone caves, and boulder drifts, till
Lady Laure grew wise apace. He told her the names
of all manner of plants and stones. He showed her
where the winter swallow nestles in the glowing
rock, and moved her to compassion as he pointed
to the hovering falcon darting across the sun's eye
to seize his quivering prey. All creatures were his
friends: the mountain cattle, the goats, the birds;
even the green tree-frog, with its shrill croak, and the

great night-moth, with its whirring wings, and the shy-spider
in its wondrous trap.

It was a new world for Lady Laure — a world of
wonders, of which Mr. Mildew had the key. Nothing
in her pleasant life had ever been so pleasant, as these
rambling days with her new friend.

When the earl talked of moving. Lady Laiire would
say, " Why should we go on ? Are we not happy
here ? "

It was upon the thirteenth day of the month. But
why be particular, except that dates will stick in the
mind ? Upon this day the earl received a letter.

It is from your aunt, Laure. She wishes us to join
them, at least for a week or two. We cannot refuse."

Lady Laure sighed.

But we can return again in a little time, if you
are so wedded to this quiet spot."

Lady Laure begins to smile.

So the carriage is packed — baggage, Burton,
Jenkins, and all; and a few mornings after, they
depart.

Lady Laure and the earl take their seats.

"We must stop in the town for letters," says the
earl. " I may have one to answer."

"Farewell ! We shall soon return," cries Lady Laure
to Mr. Mildew.

Crack! crack! The venturing shouts, and away
they speed. But not too fast, after all.

Mr. Mildew starts off too, — into the citron grove,
through the pine trees, by the olive wood, and then
up that sudden steep. It is the very path Lady
Laure and Lorraine had followed when they came to
foe belated on that memorable day — then, — still in that
Future — which held so much of grief for Mr. Mildew.

Mr. Mildew knows it better than they did ; and he
is a better mountaineer too, by many degrees. What
a vigorous frame for fifty years I Steadily he takes
the ascent, and soon he is crossing the ridges. It is a
full east wind. How his hair blows back, like the soft,
grey mountain grass ! There is a short cut he means
to take ; he will scale the red rocks to their easternmost
summits. It is a perilous climb ; but he neither
flags nor falters till the post is won.

What a scene it is ! From the bare height of this
awful cliff, whose base is in the waves, before him lie,
in vast length and breadth, this incomparable sea and
this incomparable coast. The sea below and the sky
above are rivals in their boundless blue; but in the
infinite distance they simulate the law of love, though
no line marks the point of this celestial union. Far
as sight can span, retires the long coast-line, bay after
bay, headland after headland. The clustering towns
dip their white feet into the blue water. Green woods
and grey, cliffs verdant and barren, follow each other
in lovely contrast ; and on that distant jutting promontory,

those branching palms, barely discernible to the
naked eye, carry the mind still further Eastward to a
truer Orient.

But Mr. Mildew's heart is sad. The knell of his
delight in these much-loved scenes already rings with
a prophetic stroke upon his ears. He stretches himself
upon the rock in a hopeless attitude. The close, wild
thyme that crops about, makes him a soft couch ; but
he heeds not the sweet perfume. He picks the tiny
blooms and flings them over the brink, heedless of
what he does. His heart is sad ; it sinks within him
with an inexpressible despondency.

What is that faint rumble, like a smothered earthquake,
that brings Mr. Mildew to his feet? How
recklessly he leans over the giddy parapet ! It would
make your head reel to see him.

Mr. Mildew has found that which he has come for —
a small, black mass. It emerges from the rock ; it
glides along; it scales the opposing cliff; now it sink,.
now it rises ; now it is lost, now it appears again ; it
turns inward with the curving shore ; long it remains insight.


Mr. Mildew strains his eyes; he draws his hand
across his forehead ; he leans forward further — further
still ; — it is gone ! — there is no black spot, no moving
speck. All is still as the stone cliffs themselves.

Why do his arms fall so listlessly to his sides ? What
glistens in those shaded, weary eyes? Is it the
strained sight, or is it a tear ? There is none but kind
Heaven for a witness, and tears will gather in the driest

eyes, and hearts will throb — though old and cold ;

and Mr. Mildew, at fifty years, has, with all this desperate
effort, climbed the mountain's crest to take a long,
last look of Lady Laure.

Palm Sunday," says the Italian proverb, " is very
near to Holy Friday."

Lady Laure drove off from the Villa Grimaldi full
of the fair hope of a quick return. She was in the
gayest good spirits ; all she left behind — all she went
to meet — filled her with soft pleasure. There she sat,
all smiles and affluent ease ; and as the roomy cache
wound slowly in and out by the tortuous road, it was
little that she dreamt of Mr. mildew, wan and tearful,
posted on that bleak look-out, waiting and watching
for her.

If dreams she had, they were of the rosiest hue.
Her heart could not have been young and innocent,
as it was, if it had been otherwise ; for the land is
Italy, the day divine. No fairer heaven, no lovelier
earth, no more celestial sea can be conceived of. All
joyous things to-day meet in Lady Laure's breast:
the beauty of the journey, the meeting with her

friends; the friend she leaves behind, the promised
return to the dear village on the rock, the expectant
charms of the proud city they are bound for.

Two days en route. The third brings them to their
last stage, a small fishing hamlet, a few miles short of
the great city. It was here they were to meet their
friends.

The arrival of an English carriage was an event,
then, at the small alberto of the place. It brought
out the host, and a train of inquisitive followers.

Is there an English family here of this name ? "
asks the earl, handing a card with the name of his
expected relatives written on it in pencil.

A waiter at the back is pushed forward to interpret
the earl's doubtful French.

Ou done est Luigi ? " cries the host.

It is not the etiquette for the host to take a
personal part in the parley. But Luigi is not forthcoming.
His substitute, though his linguistic powers
may be superior, is not a great card as to appearance.
He hastily arranges his dishevelled hair by desperately
brushing his arm across the lank black locks.

Una familia Inglese ? No "

The host brings him up with a nudge, to the sense
of present requirements.

Pardon ; nous avons eu dernierement une miladi ;
pas jeune, et trois demoiselles, mais "

That's it ! " cries the earl, breaking into the mother
tongue.

The man also relapses into pure Italian. But the
end of it all is, that the earl makes out quite clearly
that the old miladi, and the demoiselles were the party
they had come to meet, and that they were come, and
were gone.

At this critical moment, Luigi, the head waiter,
advances. Probably the toilet which his subordinate
attempted in public he has been making in private ;
for he is attired in snow-white pantaloons, with a
heavy gold chain across his waistcoat.

He comes forward with the characteristic, inimitable,
and affably superior air, peculiar to the class of
Continental head waiters generally.

Vossignoria." Then a bow, and after that he
converses in very fair English. '' The signer is seeking
an English gentleman as well ? "

Your cousin Algerian is with them probably,'^
says the earl, addressing Lady Laure.

Lady Laure shakes her head. *' I am sure not ;
Clara's postscript said so."

Ah !" said the earl; " I never read these postscript
Clara's."

Si, Si ? " nods Luigi, inquiringly.

Non, non," answers Lady Laure, decidedly.

But Luigi will take no denial ; evidently not convinced
by Lady Laure's " Non, non," he waves his hand
and vanishes. In a short space he returns, turning at
quick intervals to look behind him, and beckoning with
encouraging vivacity some one to follow him.

WATCH AND WAIT. 193

Eccolo ! here, then, he is ! " cries Luigi.

Mais j 'attends personne," says a voice from the
interior — " personne je vous dis." This last " personne
je vous dis " is addressed to the silent and staring host,
and with an accent unmistakably British.

The only reply which the host vouchsafes is an
intelligent wink to Luigi, and a shower of gesticulations
in the direction of the unseen one.

All this dumb-show was not without a serious
meaning. Granted that the milord had failed to find
his own friends, the bodily presence of another Englishman,
might induce him to patronize the house.

Finally, the recalcitrant Briton is beaten. He is
brought reluctantly to the fore, as fair game.

He is more than good-looking, with more than a
sulky air ; he has plenty of height and to spare ; dark-haired,
dark-eyed, with a dash of insuperable pride and
disgust in every feature.

*• Yedremo ! Yedremo ! " says Luigi aside to

the host.

The earl at once comprehends the situation. He
gets down from the carriage, and, with the admirable
courtesy natural to him, says, with a smile —

"I should make a thousand apologies to you for
this interruption. I fear I am answerable for this
mistake. I came here to meet some friends, whom I
find have just left the hotel. Will you let me give you
my card ? "

The young man starts with a momentary loss of

VOL. I. O

self-possession; then he looks hard at the earl; then
disgust and pride take flight; and then he lifts his
hat, — to the lady first.

It is for me to make excuses," he says, " and also
to express my pleasure at this occurrence." Then he
becomes slightly embarrassed as he goes on to say,
I hope your son. Lord Lucie, is well ; he was an old
Eton friend of mine. My name is Lorraine."

And this was the way that Chance, or Doom, or
Nemesis brought Mr. Mildew's let noire and Lady
Laure's head fiance to the Villa Grimaldi.

All things considered, if there is such a thing as
presentiment, it is not to be wondered at, that Mr.
Mildew felt such an inexpressible despondency as he
watched that departing caUclie from his look-out on the
top of the red rocks.

Chapter XIII.

GOD BLESS YOU ALL.

A housewife, going out very early in the morning, met a wise
woman, and she said, "What can I do? When I go to the meadow,
the cock cries, ' Mistress, Mistress ! ' and when I go to the hen-roost,
the cow calls, ' Mother, Mother ! ' What can I do ? " Then the wise
woman replied, " Let the cock crow, and the cow low. Go you into
the house, and spin yourself a shroud ; for that is the end of all."

It is not a part of the human understanding, my dear
Laure," said Lorraine, " to know one's self. You want
to leave this place, and at once. With all my heart ;
but whence, constant fair one, this change in the
wind?"

If Lady Laure had taken courage, she would
have said, "Because of the ill will between you and
Mr. Mildew." Her position in regard to the two was
becoming every day more trying. When they were
together, she sat on thorns, expecting some outbreak or
other ; and when she was alone with either of them, she
was in constant dread of their mutual evil-speaking
and slandering. It would have been hard to say which
wounded her more acutely — Lorraine's ridicule and
levity, or Mr. Mildew's censures and forebodings.

There was but one way out of these growing
troubles, and that was to part the combatants. Therefore
Lady Laure said to Lorraine, " Let us go away, if
you like, Claude, at once."

It was not that the natural charms of the spot
grew less — for now, indeed, reigned the true spring of
the poet's lay, decked in summer's glow and flowers,
with all its own fragrance and freshness. Again Lady
Laure and Lorraine sat under the citron boughs ; again
they played at ball with the yellow fruit ; again they
watched the blue sea ripple under the sun; but the
airy spirit of joy had gone out of the game ; the dream
of enchantment out of the bower ; the soothing melody
out of the wave. Their eyes beheld the sunshine still,
but in their hearts lay the shadows.

Look at those young rascals, Laure ! " says-lorraine.
" Sec how they roast in the sun ! What
would we not give to be as happy as they are, rags and
bare legs not excepted ? "

The "young rascals" were a group of lads and
children of various ages, down in the creek below
them. They were out of bounds, and that made their
pleasure the sweeter ; and they sang and danced on the
small strip of sand betwixt sea and rocks, with all the
incipient passion of their inherited natures .

I'll call one of them up," says Lorraine. " You're
awfully down, Laure, to-day; and I am what's called
dull. Let's see if we can't extract half an hour's
amusement out of this rustic human nature. And they

don't sing amiss ; it's wonderful how the people do sing
here. As I came over the hill the other day, I could
have sworn that one of them was singing, ' La donna e
mobile.' "

I dare say," says Lady Laure, absently ; and then
she adds, " But their own songs are the best, if one
could only understand them;" and then she sighs.

Now, Lady Laure had begun with Mr. Mildew a
very serious study of the poetry of these parts, none
the less interesting that it could only be gathered up
orally.

"Command me, Laure; so don't sigh over it,"
answers Lorraine, in a lively voice. " Waiting for you
this morning, I learnt a whole vocabulary by heart of
their patois; the book's lying about in the drawing-room.
I'll try it on those children." So he raises himself
up, and cries, looking over the broken bit of rock,
Vena ache ! Vena ache ! "

His first attempt merely makes a break in the
games ; the second produces a concentrated stare ; but
at the third " Vena ache ! " the whole juvenile force
come scrambling up the crags, striving who shall be
foremost, tumbling back over each other, head over
heels, till they stand at last, bruised and breathless, on
the green level in front of the citron grove, like a
relief of Lucy della Kobbia's. A row of bare-clad
imps, grouped thick and close, each child with its
brown, thin hand held out for coins.

Ah ! " says Lorraine, " something must be done

before we come to that. They shall sing, Laure.
Cant ! cant ! "

Est ben Ale ! " cry the children.

^NTow for a complex sentence," says Lorraine.

But there was no need for him just then to tax his
powers. The children break out of their line, and
ibrm into a double circle, threading in and out ;
and as they dance they say —

Maja, Maja, beni vega,
Cun tota sole e more,
Cii s'arma e cun su fire
E cun sa Margarita."

Bravo ! " cries Lorraine.

Then the children begin an encore. He shakes his
head. "Alto ! alto!" This was not very good patois;
but they understood it.

The next exhibition was of a more ambitious
character. In this, one child stood silent and single,
whilst the others, hand-in-hand, danced to and fro
before him. The song was both plaintive and lively,
with an occasional long-drawn-out note, to which went
the accompaniment of inexpressible contortions and
grimaces of mock respect.

Capital ! " and Lorraine claps his hands.

The exciting action carries the young artists away.
They are not to be stopped this time, and each child
lias a right to his turn of homage from the rest. So
the song comes over and over —

*' Barba Garibo,
E gioruo levevo,

Porte de Zenzibo,
Dame, do a tre merit,
Barba Garibo, Barba Garibo !

Barba Garibo,
Un one coma vo,
Ch' ha vast tante cause,
Eben giiist cbe se repose,
Che vos par d'aisso,
Barba Garibo, Barba Garibo ! "

"It is one of their favourite songs," says Lady
Laure.

What's it about, I wonder ? They repeat that
*■ Garibo ' so often. Has it any sense ? " asks Lorraine.

*' Oh, not much sense," says she, smiling ; " but
they don't care for sense in their songs. It means
something of this sort : * Father Garibo ' — ^ uncle,' it
should be — * it is daylight. Get up. Bring us some
raisins, with two or three apples. A man like you,
who has seen so many things, it is quite right that
he should rest himself. What do you think ? ' —

That is all of it. There's very little meaning in
it," she adds.

Lorraine sits with a oratherins^ frown. " I see a
considerable meaning in it ; and 1 believe it was that
old Garibo down there who taught it to you. For
the future, let's call him your dear L'ncle Garibo ! "

"No, no," answers Lady Laure, with a quick look
of vexation. " Why not call people by their own
names ? "

If their names were reasonable, by all means.
But supposing your name happened to be Dry Not, or

^loulcly, or Mildew ; in that case, I think you would
take it as an obligation if a friend dubbed you
Garibo."

Ask the children to sing again," says Lady Laure,
quietly.

"Ah ! I see ; you are anxious to change the subject,
to get rid of Uncle Garibo ! "

I am, indeed, Claude." A weary look comes into
her face. Trouble, of whatever kind, begins to tire
by persistence.

The next song has nothing of the plaintive in it.
It is sung at a great pace ; the accompanying pantomime
being the clapping of each other's hands and shoulders
after the last line with tremendous vivacity.

Lorraine makes a sign to them to moderate their
speed ; but they go quicker and quicker.

The tallest youth of the party, a picturesque
fellow, with long legs and a lovely oval in his face,
perceives that they are not giving satisfaction. He
touches his red cap with an air and a grace, and,
with a stamp of his foot, brings them all to a stop.

No stasema a una aixi vito ! " he cries, in a voice
of command.

Then come two or three rebellious murmurs in
the shape of " Cocoa ! cocoa ! " which was simply
Get on ! "

The tall lad had his way, however, and the song
was repeated with a drawl, worthy of the psalm-singing:
north of the Tweed —

*' Son stat' a Emma et al Papa j' ho palate,
L'ho dit' se fe' I'amnre Ire peccant ?
Respond 'un Cardinal de li piu vecchi.
Fate ramnr che state benedetti ! "

That's as clear as daylight," says Lorraine. '* And
the authority of the ]parti pretre upon this important
subject is encouraging. What do you say, Laure ? "

Lady Laure shakes her head. "I do not understand
it," says she. " I never heard it before."

Lorraine drives her a look as much as to sav. *' And
you, too, caught fibbing, fair angel ! "

Then he tosses some coins to the chorus.

More scrambling and tumbling, hustling and pushing,
some scratching and kicking, some in triumph,
some in despair. So the fierce little crowd disperses.

Lorraine is silent. He sits looking at the sea,
playing a sort of tattoo on the ground with the indispensable
white umbrella. " You don't understand it.
then ? " says he at last, with a singular smile. " Well,
here's a free translation for you —

To Kome I've been ; the Pope I saw.
I asked if making love was wrong ?
The oldest Cardinal said, ' Psha !

Love — if the saints you'd be among ! ' '*

Ah ! " says Lady Laure, looking steadily away
from him ; " you don't know Some. You must go
there some day."

Some ! Xo ; and IVe no desire to know it. Why
do you talk of my going to Kome ? " It was too hand
upon her innocent equivoque, but possibly, in his turn.

Lorraine did not understand. Then he adds, tartly,
I tell you what it is. Poetry is thrown away upon
you. Doesn't Lucie say so ? "

"Lucie is so indulgent to me."

"That means that I am not! Are you growing
tired of your bargain, Laure ? "

What can you mean, Claude ? " cries she.

I mean what I say," he answers, " as I generally
do. Beating about the bush, or giving a false scent,
are not in my way, as you might know by this time.
Listen to me. Marriages, they say, are made in
Heaven. Now, I declare to you, .shocking as it may
sound in your pious ears, that I have very strong misgivings
as to the celestial origin of ours, if it ever
comes to pass."

Oh, Claude ! oh ! " It was all that she could say.

He sits with his eyes upon her, viewing the full
effect of his words. She, all the time, gathering up
what pride and courage nature had given her, growing
pale and red by turns, speaks at last —

If you do not think we shall be happy."

"How on earth can I tell how a thing will turnout
before it's tried ? You, I'll be bound, will turn out
a model under every circumstance. But I have the
modesty to distrust myself;" and then he laughs.
As to Kome, when I go there, I suppose it will be
to do penance for my Protestant alliance ! "

Ah ! " cries she, " if we were only of the same
religion ! "

So we are, practically," says he. " I was only
joking."

But you are a Catholic," argues she.

If I'm anything. But it's all one, you know."

It is better to be something," answers Lady
Laure, gravely.

That depends," he says, with a shrug. " You'll
have to take me as I am, if you take me at all ! I
can't promise reformations of any kind ; and I never
was brought up to say many prayers, my dear Laure.
Uncle Loftus doesn't trouble Mass and chapel much ;
and his hopeful nephew takes after him. My only
acquaintance with Father Doghlan at Loughmore,
was to kick the unhappy fellow's shins under the
table over the Latin grammar. I have had more
compunction, since I came to years of understanding,
for what I made that meek animal suffer, than for all
my other sins put together ! "

You were but a child," says she.

Has smiling infancy a right to break a peaceable
man's shins, then, Laure ? You've got confused notions
of right and wrong, I fear. You take the part of
young tyrants, and love the high places of old ones."

"I? Old tyrants?"

Yes, you ! — I see, you plead guilty to the first
count. As to the second, didn't you say you liked
Kome ? "

Of course I did. Every one — almost every one —
does. Easter is just the time."

"Oh, I know all about it ! Starved all day in
St. Peter's; stifled all night in pitch darkness, in a
narrow place, with men and women of all nations, to
the tune of * Adeste fideles.' "

Don't be profane ! You know it's the * Miserere.' "

Well, I suppose * Fideles ' fits the case."

It is divinely beautiful — like an angelic choir."

I'd rather sit at my ease at the opera," says he.

But there are other things in Rome."

Nothing for me. I don't like dead cities. I
don't by preference choose to live among the tombs.
It's not my way of making merry."

Tombs ! But you don't live in the catacombs ! "
Lady Laure smiles in wonder.

Then he goes suddenly back to the religious
question. " Believe me, once for all, there's nothing
of the hon Catholiqtie in me ! Get rid of your Foreigners
and your Despotisms, and then Italy's the place for
me''

Ah ! so says Lucie."

Not exactly Lucie, if I may believe your father ;
but just Claude Lorraine, a very moderate revolutions
indeed ! "

Still, he thinks and acts as you would," says she ;
for he went straight away from Rome one year, when
we were there. He does go off in that sort of way,
you know, suddenly."

Does he ? " rejoins Lorraine. " And very right
too, if he doesn't like where he is. He's a commendable

example ; " and he tightens his lips expressively.
But as to you, Laure, there's but one place that you
should turn your steps to just now ; and I was saying
so to your father yesterday. This year — is not last year,,
and the safest place for you is British territory."

Are you serious now ? " says she.

"Perfectly serious. There's nothing in the wind
but wars and rumours of wars, red revolutions, barricades,
and the like. Height ! A man may do worse
than go in for it, as I suspect your brother is doing.
I wish I'd a good excuse to do the same. I'm sick of
a quiet life."

"But you don't wish to go into a revolution,
Claude ? "

I wish for anything to stir the blood, and drive
the lazy devil out of a man," says he.

Check to the king," says the earl.

Mr. Mildew hurriedly removes his majesty.

You know you leave the castle undefended'*

Mr. Mildew brings down the queen.

My dear fellow, there it is ! " and the earl takes
the queen. " The game is up ; it is not to be resisted.
In fact, it's strange, but I play a stronger game than
you do now, though you beat me hollow at the
beginning."

Mr. Mildew pushes the board slightly away from

him. "Time and Chance, Bellarmine, happen tous
all."

Come, you shall not rob me of my laurels," says
the earl, laughing. " Chess is too much of a game of
skill for chance to enter into it."

But time does ; and time — is chance," says Mr.
Mildew.

Will you have your revenge. Mildew ? "

Mr. Mildew shakes his head. " Not with Time and
Chance against me. A man's last refuge — it may bea
forlorn one — is to know when he is beaten."

The earl was in high spirits at his victory.
"Well, you'll take it some day, when you're in the
cue. I'm not altogether satisfied about my strength.
You play carelessly, to say the least. No doubt,
though, I've got up my game surprisingly since we
first played last year. Last year! Bless me! what
an anchorage we have made here, to be sure ! Months
months ; and we only came for one. But latterly,
I have been in no haste ; for my little Laure has found
a woman's pearl of great price here — a good husband.
Little witch ! it's quite mysterious the way she took
to the place from the first."

Mr. Mildew's sunburnt face was not the mirror to
catch each shade of thought, nor were his features
formed to express each sudden emotion ; yet, at the
words of the earl, the lips quivered, and a pallor, as
of the dead overspread his cheeks, and he sat as one
transfixed.

You are not well, Mildew ! " cries the earl. " You
have one of those attacks coming on, that took you
the other day in the garden ; " and he jumps up and
rings the bell. " Water, Burton, at once ! "

But Mr. Mildew is determined to master himself.
His voice is steady, and his eye too. " Bellarmine,"
he says, " will you add wine to that order ? I have
something I must say to you."

To be sure — to be sure," replies the earl, with a
nod to Burton. Then he looks anxiously at Mr.
Mildew. " Don't exert yourself to speak now. Mildew ;
you're not fit for it. Another time will do. But drink
down the wine, man ; it's just what you want."

What I have to say is brief " — then Mr. Mildew
stops — " but it is painful."

"Good God, Mildew!" cries the earl, thoroughly
alarmed. " What has happened ? I might have seen
all the morning that you were not yourself."

Mr. Mildew makes no instant reply ; he is gathering
up his forces. The moment had come at last, — ushered
in by so many sleepless nights and distressful days,
when, at all costs, he must speak the grievous truth,
as he takes it to be.

Mr. Mildew lifts his eyes bravely, and looks at the
earl. The pallor is gone now ; the lips are firm ; the
wine, or the will has done its work. The earl's eyes
meet his friend's, full of fear and uncertainty. They
have changed places for this one moment. Then
Mr. Mildew speaks. He says what he has to say
calmly enough.

Bellarmine, you are mistaken. That man is not
worthy of your daughter. He will break her heart."

Is this it ? " exclaims the earl, and he draws a
long breath, and a look of relieved surprise chases
away all the doubt and alarm. "Why, bless me,
Mildew ; he's the man of all others I would pick out
for Laure. An honourable, well-living young fellow
as can be ; and so domesticated, too. See how he has
stayed on here with us. I assure you, if he were thrown
over, I don't know where I could look for his equal.
You have lived so long out of the world, my dear
friend, you don't know what the young men of the
present generation are."

"Not all frivolous puppies, it is to be hoped,"
returns Mr. Mildew, and the worn, blue eyes flash
absolute fire from under the shaggy eyebrows.

Come, come. Mildew, keep to terms. Kemember,
if Mr. Lorraine is not now my son-in-law, he will be."
There was a haughty tone in the voice.

Mr. Mildew rose with equal pride. " I have done
my duty, Bellarmine, and so I take my leave."

The earl made no movement to detain him. The
door opened and closed again. And thus these two
friends parted.

Mr. Mildew did not leave the house. On the contrary,
he sought Lady Laure, and found her sitting

alone in the drawing-room. Lorraine, after the talk
in the citron grove, had gone off by himself, to quiet
his warlike sensations by the smoke of a cigar. When
she saw who it was, Lady Laure rose at once, and ran
towards her friend with affectionate effusion.

xii ! I am so glad you have come. We have now
so few days together. And how well you look ! How
rejoiced I am ! If, when we say good-bye, you look as
you do now, it will give me such comfort. Try and
be well ! Try and be happy, dear, dear Mr. Mildew ! "

So Lady Laure opened her whole heart. Only to
her brother, " who spoiled her," had she the same
instinct of fearless confidence — the same certainty of
risking no wrong judgment, calling up no blame or
lack of sympathy.

The pallor was again creeping over the flushed
cheek ; the fire was fading out of the excited eyes.
Mi. Mildew, fresh from angry indignation, had indeed
entered the room with something of the inspired
Prophet in his face and step.

But it was momentary. It was the last flicker of
expiring effort. As the wrath subsided, the woe set
in. But how more and more unutterable that woe
became, — with each of these tender words that fell
with such free bounty from Lady Laure's lovely lips !
that, indeed, were hard to tell.

In happy ignorance. Lady Laure sees nothing of this
wan change. She is again seated, again at her pretty
labour of needlework.

VOL. I. p

Mr. Mildew sits down beside her. He draws his
chair near — nearer. It is the last, the very last time
he shall sit in her sweet presence. What is not
permitted to supreme moments such as this ?

You are out of breath," she says, as she looks up
at him, and sees him shaken with agitation. " And you
are pale again. Ah ! you have been walking too far.
I wish I had been with you to make you more
prudent." And then she colours with a quick remorse.
How long — how long it was since she had taken even
one walk with her old friend !

"You have another companion now," he says,
smiling with the sad forgiveness of a martyred saint.

Lady Laure sighs, and sighs deeply. She puts her
work aside. She turns with a piteous eye to him.
She takes his large, brown hand in hers. She carries
it to her lips, and she cries, " Oh, dearest and kindest
friend, I love him so much, so much ! What can I do ? "

At this Mr. Mildew's strength is gone. He is no
longer the man ; he is a soul in pain — past controlling.
His tears fall fast — the first shower shed by these poor
eyes since they fell upon a mother's grave. Her
hands are wet with salt drops ; for she joins her tears
to his.

God knows," he murmurs — " God knows ; there
is no help now but in Him. He who caret for the
sparrows will not leave His lambs destitute ! " Thereupon
he gets up, and so does she ; and as a good father
embraces a dutiful daughter, he takes her in his arms,

and plants one kiss upon that spotless brow, — and
goes.

But again he comes back to the door. " God bless
you, and be with you for ever and ever ! " Then he
goes again, — not to return.

She, the innocent cause of all this anguish, sits lost
as in a maze. To her Lorraine comes quickly in —

Laure ! what's the matter with your friend ?
He's crying like an infant; and as he met me, he
seizes my hand and says, * God bless you ! Don't
break her heart ! ' — The man is mad, hopelessly insane'*

Oh, speak kindly — speak kindly ! " cries Lady
Laure. " It is his heart — his heart that is broken, —
quite broken ! " And then she falls to weeping again.

CHAPTER XIV.

"GOD BE MERCIFUL TO ME A SINNER!"

He plucked three blooms of the myrtle tree,
And thrice he wept as he spake to me
The grievous lore of the sorrows three.

Tell now the remedy," then I said,

For the sorrows three. Priest, lend thine aid

To lighten the load thy words have laid."

No ; learn to suffer ! " the stern reply.
Bloom of the body is doomed to die ;
Bloom of the mind soon passes by !

♦' Banish all hopes that do fade away ;
Thy heart on the heart spear-wounded stay ;
His flower, thy soul, shall ne'er decay ! "

Me. Mildew went westward up the hills, avoiding the
road that led to his house. He went rapidly, and yet
halting — staggering like a man in a dream. He looked
down upon the kind earth, as his feet brushed through
the bright red blooming carpet that covered it.

"0 flowers," he cries — "flowers of earth! ye are
dust; all dust!"

Then he stops and turns his eyes up to his
beloved mountains, and then back upon the rainbow
waves ; and stands bewildered.

Alas ! can no magic wand give him back his lonely
days of peace? Will no merciful power restore to
him his dumb delights: his birds, his flowers, his
herbs, his fossil beasts, his solitary joys from dawn to
dusk? Will not kind Nature enshroud him with a
veil, and hide from his senses — all the pleasure, all the
pain, all the human actors of these latter days, — and
leave him to himself once more ?

There, crowning that green hill, rises a votive
shrine, and, sheltered beneath that frowning crest,
stands another. To them many a pious pilgrimage is
paid — the maiden for her lover, who tempts the treacherous
deep ; the mothers for their ailing little ones ; and
to that rude fresco daub of holy Bethlehem's manger,
the cowherd leads the weakly heifer, in full confidence
of remedy and cure. Is there no Sanctuary up there
aloft, where miracles are worked for broken peace, for
souls sick to death, for hearts that bleed with woe ?

Such might be Mr. Mildew's pitiful appeal, so disconsolately
his eyes look upward.

"0 my soul," he cries aloud, "why art thou so
disquieted within me? Is to-day worse than yesterday
? Why am I so dejected and cast down ? "

There are no answers to such questions as these.
Like the rest of the weariful-hearted, Mr. Mildew must
fain bear his burden and go on his way.

He follows the hill-side ; he turns to the right and
on again ; he breaks away from track and shrines, and
dives into a copse of bright-leaved shade. Then down

a broken gorge, between the close, rising, jagged rock
lie follows it like a blind man, who feels but does
not see.

There is the low sea-wall; and there is the house
that stands upon it — the house with the snow-white
front and sides, the painted eaves, the dark-green
jalousies and gay-coloured arabesques, quaintly wreathing
all about it.

There is the pink-blossoming oleander, in double
row, shading the garden path ; and there is the tiny
orange grove that flanks it to the right ; there are
the snow-laden fruit trees, — the young vine tendrils
gathering about them; and there is the well-kept
potager, telling of savoury dishes. What a haven of
peace and calm content it looks, smiling in the sun, so
silently and serenely welcoming his return !

Mr. Mildew has no haste in his sad feet to reach
this haven to-day. He stops short, folds his arms
upon the ledge of stone that bounds the waves, and
leaning over it, looks, with no apprehension of things
present, into the indistinguishable distance of sea and
sky. He neither sees nor hears, nor is sensible of any
presence but his own woe-worn heart. And yet he is
not alone.

A man in the prime of life, in the garb of the
Church, is standing at his side. He is neither monk
nor friar. He is an abate from the city above, and
virtually the cure of the village on the rock.

His figure is not ungainly ; this air is not slouching ;
his complexion is not swarthy nor ill-shaven ; his
features are not coarse ; his eye is not uncertain ; his
mouth is not sensual, nor does the under lip drop into
the chin, nor does the chin recede ; even the hands are
not unclean ; the triple-cornered hat is not greasy ;
the cassock not ill-fitting. But to speak of him aright
the negative must be dropt.

This man, cast in the image of his Maker, bears
written upon his brow, the divine impress; a large
and lofty compassion dwells in his eyes ; the mission
of the comforter sits upon his lips; his voice is as
the voice of one coming from God; his hands seem
made to bless and to sustain.

This man also, like Horace Mildew, stood in the
glorious strength of first manhood, possessor of all that
fortune had to bestow, gifted in mind, great in soul,
favoured in family, in friends, — of exalted birth. He
made his choicest and left all to follow his Lord.

suffering, struggling, faltering, freezing Christendom
! when the ministering servants round thine
altars match, as this man did, thy gorgeous shrines,
thy fittings of gold and silver, thy velvet and fine
linen, thy marble glories, thy masterpieces of art, then
will the blood-red banner wave victoriously, — then will
be the Millennium.

The priest stood watching Mr. Mildew, with his
compassionate eyes, piercing as it were, into the very
heart. He forbears to break in upon this melancholy

reverie. He stands, himself silently communing with
his own thoughts, seeking the cause of the man's wrapt
abstraction. At last, he lays a light hand upon his
shoulder. There might have been something electric
in the touch ; for Mr. Mildew started as a man
awakening out of sleep. But, though his senses are
scattered, he meets the priest's greeting, not with
shrinking, but rather with a rueful welcome. Mr.
Mildew's guardian angel, no doubt, was there likewise,
or it stood, for the moment, in the corporeal presence
of the priest.

The priest speaks in the rich Italian tongue. On
these shores there are all languages to be heard ; — the
speech is as mixed as the nationalities. But this is no
bastard mixture; it is that Lingua Tuscan, which
thrills with its sweet strength even hardened ears, and
it well became the voice that spoke it now.

Forgive ! We are so long acquainted as friends.
You have a burden on your mind. Share it with me."

Mr. Mildew's long dream across sea and sky has
quieted his troubled breast, though the grievous face
tells of little comfort.

It is nothing, Signor Abate ; but I am glad to
meet you. I am going to my house. Do you go the
same way ? "

So the two men turned together. They walked
without more words till they stood in the narrow shade
<jf the oleanders. Then the priest stood still.

Again he lays one hand upon Mr. Mildew. " My
office you know," says he.

Mr. Mildew fetches a deep sigh. " I do," he
answers.

My work," says the priest, " is to minister to all
who need my services. These services are to lead the
heart to heaven, and to console it for its sufferings
upon earth. My work is to give to all souls the
seamless garment of Faith, to be a shield in time of
trouble."

Abate," answers Mr. Mildew, " your office is one
that is the consolation of those that minister and of
those that are ministered unto. You are happy in
going to and fro between God and man. You say,
"* This I will believe, and this I will teach ; ' and so
you believe and teach. You have nothing to do with
anything beyond this. You keep far from you all
images that can disturb the single duty of your life.
You may be said to exist in an adamantine tomb ; you
bear it about with you ; it is at once an altar and a
fortress, — a fortress in which you shelter your soul, an
altar on which you sacrifice your heart. I should be
glad, very glad," says he, " of such a tomb, or of any
tomb." And then there comes one of his deep sighs
again.

What has gone so wrong with you of late ? " says
the priest, leading the poor man back to himself.

Mr. Mildew looks wistfully at him.

What is your burden, my friend ? "

My good abate, you cannot remove my burden."

True," whispers the priest, in his melodious sottovoce

; " but it is given to me to lighten it. My mission
is to read the sore secrets of the soul, to open the
suffering heart that seeks to close itself against God
and man."

Mr. Mildew starts with a suspicious glance.

Why fear me ? " urges the priest. " You have
said that I am not one of the world ; therefore I judge
not as the world. Sin and sorrow are no strangers tome.
I bear about with me always much grievous
wrong, the sufferings and evil deeds of many poor
souls. But these do not sicken my spirit ; they are
only a dolorous weight, only a disquieting trial, until
I can bring to penitence, imtil I can absolve and console.
But what is given must be asked for. I hold the
remedy ; but it must be sought. The tongue must utter,
what the heart bas felt — and the soul knows."

"Abate"— and then Mr. Mildew stops to take
breath and courage — "Abate," cries he, "I do not
fear you more than I fear my God. He sees my heart
and my weakness; He knOws how my soul confesses
it and despises it ! "

Man despises man, but God regards him."

He knows," cries Mr. Mildew, " that all I am, and
have, — that all things are valueless to me."

Our treasure is not of this world," says the priest.

I have no hope," sighs Mr. Mildew.

Earthly hope is naught," says the priest.

I have no faith," moans Mr. Mildew.

Faith is a gift from God," says the priest.

So speaking, by single footfalls, like a march to the
grave, they reach at last the steps of the white-fronted
house, with the gay frescoes, and the green jalousies
all smiling in the blessed sunshine, and the open door,
showing a cheery picture of the life within.

For to-day, farewell," says Mr. Mildew. And he
gives his hand, with a tremble in it still.

The priest takes the offered hand in a grasp of
speaking sympathy. By his presence alone he can
persuade.

Not so," whispers again this harmonious voice ;
we will go in together, and lay this sore burden on
the Cross."

Mr. Mildew does not resist.

The face of the priest is erect; it is lit up, like
that of a mighty warrior on the eve of victory. Mr.
Mildew goes in like a broken reed, hanging down his
head.

Two hours after, the Abate Faa di Bruno goes out
from this afflicted man. The priest's step is slow, his
eye is on the ground, his face is full of care ; he has
come out a conqueror ; his work is done. But there are
trampled laurels in every victory, which cost even the
victor a heart-pang. The priest's spirit is heavy, a
tear glistens on the lashes of the lowered eyes. He
has fathomed all the weakness of the sufferer's heart ;

but his own soul has bowed down before the greatness
of the soul, cast low in the dust of a sorrowing self-reproach.


That night Mr. Mildew slept the sleep of a man
who has made his peace with himself and with his
God, and who has resigned all the desires and despairs
of this life, into the hands of a merciful Father.

CHAPTER XY.

DEMAIN, IL FERA NUIT ENCORE.

This is the hour when, waving to and fro,
The increase-bearing flowers waft odours sweet ;
When magic tones in mystic measures meet —

A mournful waltz— a dreamy vertigo.

The incense-bearing flowers waft odours sweet ;

The beck shivers like a heart in woe ;

A mournful waltz — a dreamy vertigo ;
The sky is sad and fair— a lustrous winding-sheet.

The beck shivers like a heart in woe ;

The tender heart fears the great void to meet ;

The sky is sad and fair— a lustrous winding-sheet ;
The drowning sun congeals its bloodstained glow.

The tender heart fears the great void to meet, —
None but the happy Past it cares to know ;
The drowning sun congeals its bloodstained glow ;

And thou,— within my soul, thy memory I greet.

After Baudelaire.

Come, Laure, come," says our hero ; " dry your tears.
Enough's as good as a feast ! I'm sorry for the poor
old fellow myself ; he did look so cut down. Shall I
go after him and cheer him up, or shall I stay here
and cheer you up? Here I am, at your command."
Lorraine is standing, watching Lady Laure's fast-falling

tears. His heart is not of stone — it is only
that bag of feathers. He takes her hand, he smoothes
her auburn head. " That's right," says he ; " you're
nervous; Mildew's nervous; we're all nervous sometimes.
It's the weather. There's a storm brewing
somewhere or other."

The intention is everything; otherwise — Heaven
save the mark ! — there was not much amiss with the
weather ; nor was nervousness a complaint that Lorraine
could correctly lay claim to for himself.

The end of the day found Lady Laure still " nervous,"
though not in tears, and with a headache or
something akin to it.

Go, rest yourself, poor child ! " says Lorraine, after
dinner. " And don't come down again. Try and go to
sleep and forget it."

There was something so sad and weary in her face,
that he felt the concern he showed, and was thoroughly
in earnest. In fact, he had been in earnest all the
day. The sight of Mr. Mildew's streaming eyes and
agony of emotion had surprised him into an amount
of sympathy that it would have taken a great many
of Lady Laure's pearly tears to produce in him; —
into an amount of sympathy for the time being, it
must be understood. For this day, a bit of his better
nature is uppermost ; he is ready for any self-sacrificing
act, — open to any generous feeling that may come in
the way. He offers himself as a companion in a walk
to the earl, and he even volunteers a wish that they

might come across Mr. Mildew, who, as he remarks,
had seemed upset in the morning."

The earl's reply was anything or nothing ; but he
said to himself, " What a good-hearted young fellow it
is, to be sure ! As for Mildew, he's grown crabbed and
prejudiced."

Lady Laure did not go to rest; rest at present
was far from her. She sat dreamily by her open
windows ; just the windows for such a season and such
a scene — large and wide, the opening from floor to
ceiling of the low room.

The evening was brilliant ; overhead a sky of paler
blue in this declining hour; round the horizon the
gorgeous yellow light slanting everywhere, and the
sea dyed red and black.

In a moment, all is changed ; and, brief as thought,
a grey veil drops over the effulgent glare, and the
earth stands on Nature's bridge of gloom.

Lady Laure shivers — shivers and sighs. It seems
to her that her sigh is echoed. She turns with a timid
glance ; it is but the drapery moved by the breeze.

Of infinite recurrence, which yet takes nothing
from its power ; as the day dies, and as it begins to
live, the mysterious transmutation brings the passions
of the soul under its resistless influence. Fear and joy,
love and hate, crime and anguish, catch for the
moment, a deeper colouring from the skies. The poet
alone at these moments is borne aloft, out of his own

existence, out of himself ; and, in supreme sympathy
with his great Mother, at every morn and eve, cries,
Once more ; once more ! "

Lady Laure's eyes watch the scene, but her
thoughts behold nothing but Mr. Mildew's pitiful face.

"Why did he weep so woefully?" Why did he
embrace her in such an agony ? Why did he say,
God bless Lorraine " ? Was he gone for ever ? Was
this indeed the anguish of a last farewell? "Alas!
poor, poor Mr. Mildew!" So she murmurs many times;
and the while, the look-out grows darker and darker. It
will be a moonless night, and the stars are not up yet.

Looking into the growing darkness. Lady Laure
sits with fixed eyes, seeing always the pitiful face,
seeing nothing else.

Perhaps she has fallen asleep, for she starts with a
sudden cry, shrill and piercing. It is ghostly, heavy-eyed
work, in this owl's light, watching alone.

Jenkins, who has been waiting to be set free,
requires no second cry to bring her to her mistress.
As far as the composed senses of the waiting-maid
could make out, something had come in through the
window, and past Lady Laure as she sat. But she
speaks faintly, chiefly desiring a lamp, and that the
windows should be closed.

Jenkins's courage and composed senses are oozing
out. She brings back with her, Marguerite the cook,
and French Sabine the housemaid, and the lamp. But
Lady Laure says that she only wants Jenkins ; so that

unfortunate is left to do battle with the ghosts single-handed,
for, as she said at supper afterwards, " Of what
use was that poor, frightened hare ? "

Something did come in," says she to Burton,
sitting opposite. " You may be sure of that ; and it
came for no good."

But Sabine is above the supernatural. She was born
at Marseilles, and has been six years in Paris; she
knows all about life and its realities. " Ce doit etre
une de ces villains betes de chauve-souris."

No doubt it was, if it was anything ; but still the
vilaine bete " was never found.

Now the thin curtains are drawn, they but imperfectly
shut out the black night. The wind is rising ;
its moans and sighs seem to be in the very room.

Jenkins's permitted chatter flags; it is not her
tongue, but her teeth, that take to chattering now.
*' How cold it is to-night, my lady ! " says she. " Shall
I put on the coverlet ?"

As you like, Jenkins."

Shall I leave the lamp burning ? "

Ah ! yes," answers Lady Laure, quickly. " Is there
plenty of oil ? It won't go out, will it ? "

"Plenty, my lady. Burton filled it before I
brought it up ; " and with this assurance Jenkins
retires from the ghostly chamber.

"Come and sleep with me to-night," says she
to Sabine, who, amongst other accomplishments acquired
from her betters in her vicarious experiences,

VOL. I. Q

could speak a little of what she called "ver fine
English."

Before slumber has come to calm her nerves,
Jenkins confides to Sabine, that she wouldn't pass the
night in Lady Laure's room, "not if she'd pay me
for it."

But Sabine feels remorse of conscience. "Mais,
d'etat tres mal de la laisser toute seule la nuit ! et elle
une si charmante jeune dame ! "

But Jenkins is no longer responsible ; she is giving
audible proof that her ears are as dull as her understanding
and her conscience.

Lady Laure would fain follow Lorraine's last charge
to her — " Go to sleep and forget it." But her golden
slumbers forsake her ; she turns from side to side ; she
tosses her white arms; grim fancies of fast-pursuing
terrors float through her brain; and always in the
bad dream, a pitiful face, white as a sheet, in the black
depths of a pitchy darkness, coming up before her.

So, betwixt sleeping and waking, the uneasy night
goes on, until, with the warm, half-light of dawn, Lady
Laure falls into a dreamless sleep.

Jenkins, stirred up by Sabine's larger heart, is
awake betimes, and, with a stealthy step, creeps in to
look after her mistress. Looking at her, Jenkins does
not envy her this night with the ghosts.

The drapery is tossed into disorder. Lady Laure
lies in an attitude of utter exhaustion ; one arm thrown
over the fair head with its loosened tresses, the other

hanging dependent from the couch. The cautious
vvaitiug-maid sees all her suspicions more than confirmed
; she covers up the pale sleeper, and creeps off
again.

Jeunesse qui veille, viewless qui dort, signes de
mort;" and, as far as feeling half-dead went, Lady
Laure, on waking, justified the proverb. But she has
done with this feverish night at last. She is again
in the living world, dressed and sitting at breakfast,
though she eats nothing.

The earl is off for his constitutional walk, up and
down about forty feet of level road ; he has still his
objection to hilly courses.

Lorraine is standing by the window, from time to
time seriously considering the pale face of his ladylove.
The idea of illness is Lorraine's greatest bugbear.
As long as high health is secured to the body,
mental malaise may take care of itself.

Why, Laure," he says, " where are the late roses
gone, upon which I complimented you so seriously?
I should have asked you this question before, when
you first came down, only I waited for your father
to go."

Tacitly youth and age change places. Once upon a
time, the father would have waited, in his turn, to make
some private communication. Childhood and second
childhood modified; but there is the inevitable see-saw
at the bottom of it.

Lady Laure glances cautiously at the window.

Then, in an undertone, she says wearily, " Oh ! Claude,
I had such a restless night ! "

So I see," he answers, with all the gravity of the
medical man in ordinary. " How is the pulse ? " and
he takes his watch and her hand.

A faint smile on the fair patient's face only makes
the weariness look wearier.

Hold your hand still ! Jump, jump, stop ! Yes, it
stops. By Heavens ! we must have a doctor at once ! "
and Lorraine drops the hand, and puts himself into an
attitude of action.

Oh no, no doctor ! " cries she. " It's only Mr.
Mildew."

Mildew ! " exclaims Lorraine, furious. " What,
in the name of all that's aggravating, has he been
doing now ? "

Nothing, nothing ! " cries she again. " How could
he do any harm ? Poor Mr Mildew ! "

Poor, dear Mr. Mildew ! Better say it out. I tell
you what it is, Laure. This poor, dear old fool is mad
himself, and will drive me mad too ! " Lorraine's
better nature is taking to flight. " Do you hear what
I say ? " he adds. " We shall all end in a mad-house
if we don't get clear of him ! "

"Oh," moans she, "do go down and see where
he is!"

Where he is ! Eating his breakfast — raw tomatoes,
salted sardines, and an omelette, perhaps." Lorraine
begins to laugh. "Throw in half a bottle of vin du
pays."

Oh, do go, Claude ! " So she entreats, with the
unshed tears glistening in her eyes.

If I do go, I'll call him out. What business have
you to cry about any fellow, young or old, but myself,
I should like to know ? "

Claude, you were so kind yesterday."

'ris it a proof of kindness to let you sit there,
making your eyes red about a man who is at this
moment — well, let's say, eating a mutton cutlet, if
that will give you more consolation ? "

Lady Laure shakes her head.

Does the man look starved ? Take my word for
it, he lives well, as the servants say, and takes his
meals regular''

Not to-day," she sighs.

Then Lorraine breaks out again. " Upon my word,
it's too bad ! What have you eaten to-day ? Supposing
he has fasted, as you have, where's the harm of it
to a strong old fellow like that ? I tell you what it is.
You are giving me, who have been breakfasting off
that veal, a regular fit of indigestion by all this worry.
And as to Mildew, the man deserves to be shot ! "

Lady Laure is very brave to-day in the cause of the
absent. " He has never done you or any one else any
harm in all his life. Of that I am quite sure."

Any harm ! And I am quite sure that he has done
me more harm than any one else has ever done me
good in all my life! So you see how we differ. In
every way he has been doing me harm for the last

but I've lost my count of time, or else I'd tell you
how long it was."

Lady Laura gives no reply. Soon she gets up and
walks slowly across the room.

"Where are you going now?" asks he. "Why
don't you keep quiet ? What you want is to keep
yourself, mind and body, out of a fuss."

Lady Laure looks round, with her hand upon the
door. "I am going down to Mr. Mildew."

"Down to Mildew!" Lorraine is staggered by
the desperate insubordination of the step.

Yes," says she, " since you won't go, Claude."

Come back here, and sit down again. If you
want it, I'll go to the devil for you. I beg your
pardon ; but, on my word, to-day I don't know what ta
make of you, Laure."

Do you mean it ? " she asks, hesitating.

Lorraine begins to laugh. " Well, perhaps I shall
go there, whether I mean it or not. As to old Mildew,
what am I to say to him ? "

I don't know," says she, looking bewildered.

Women are a trial ! " mutters Lorraine. Then
aloud, " Shall I say, * Lady Laure Lucie has sent me
down to ask you if you are alive this morning, and
if you have made a good breakfast ' ? Shall I ask for
particulars ? "

Oh, don't go ! don't go ! " and she takes her forehead
between her two hands, and leans her head
against the wall.

Lorraine is suddenly smitten. He goes up to her,
takes her in his arms, puts the poor head upon his
shoulder. " My poor Laure ! does it ache ? "

But she gives no reply beyond a moan of weary
trouble.

Now, Laure, speak ! I'll do what you want.
Look up now. I'll say everything you wish to Mildew,
and I'll be as civil as if he was the great Turk, or the
Commander-in-chief, or both rolled into one. Stop!
I'll do more. I'll bring him back bodily. And did
I ever say I'd do a thing and not do it ? " says he.
Come, give me a kiss, and I'm off."

But, before he goes, he sends for the waiting-maid.
"Jenkins," says he, "take care of your mistress.
She is not well to-day."

Jenkins promises to do all : " To the best of my
powers, sir." Then she follows him across the hall.
Her ladyship had a bad night," says she, in a confidential
tone. "My lady sat so long by the window.
She took cold, I'll be bound, sir ; and she saw something
as well "

Lorraine cuts her short with a muttered word that
bordered on the impolite. But as he walks away at
full speed, he says to himself, " She's in for a fever or
something of the sort. My next errand will be for a
doctor. I was a fool to give in to her. I ought to
have gone off for one two hours ago."

CHAPTER XVI.

"FOR SO HE GIVETH HIS BELOVED SLEEP."

In veni requiem, Spes fortuna, valet !
Nil mihi vobiscum est ; ludite nunc alios."

Aqua, 1374.

Lorraine starts on his fool's errand, as lie calls it, at
a striding step. He takes precisely the same path
which Mr. Mildew had followed the day before. The
earl may still be pursuing his constitutional walk upon
the road, for what he knows, and he has no desire to
come in for him.

He goes straight up the hill, though higher than
he need. He has not yet mastered as he should the
geography of the place. He has got to where the
broken lines begin to shoot upward in bold spurs to
the jagged summits. Then he finds his mistake, and
strikes straight across the incurring slopes. He has
missed the euphorbia clump, and must cut through
the rise of pine trees that grows above it.

The day has a tropical heat. Lorraine sniffs the
resinous odours, treads deep into the noiseless spines,
looks up at the cool canopy branching overhead, and
feels refreshed. The mountain air and exercise has

warmed his blood and cooled his temper. He pushes
through a thicket of arbutus, hands forward, and gets
severely scratched upon a Heritable British bramble.
Welcome, old friend ! " says he, with a laugh, " though
your shake of the hand is something of the roughest."
His next welcome is to a lovely mass of white-blossoming
heath ; he gathers a bunch of its tall spikes, to be
carried along, with Mr. Mildew, back to Lady Laure.

He is on the road at last. Five minutes after, he
meets Dominique, the boatman. Lorraine has a speaking
acquaintance with this good fellow. The man has
been a mariner as well, and has plied his trade in
every harbour, east, west, north, and south of the
straits. He has a polygon of tongues, which makes
conversation all the more easy. His sentences are
something of a mixture, based upon his experience
that, if one language won't answer, another will.

Good morning, Dominique ! " says Lorraine.

Servitor suo ; " and Dominique gives a tug to his
red cap.

Have you seen Mr. Mildew this morning ? "

No person so likely to have done so as this very
Dominique.

Sicuro ; mais oui." Yes, certainly, Dominique
had not only seen the padrone — now, J\[r. i\rildew was
simply the " padrone " in the mouths of the peasant
folk about — he had not only seen the padrone, but he
had had the honour of taking him a long course in the
Eondinella — the Rondinella being Dominique's breadwinner,

the dearest thing to him in earth, or air, or
sea. And the Bondinella was always at the padrone's
call and service, being drawn up on the shore immediately
below Mr. Mildew's house.

Do you know if Mr. Mildew is returned ? "

Dominique shakes his head. He has no certain
information ; but he is pretty sure that he must be,
because he had taken the padrone the course before
six o'clock, and it was now getting on for midday.

Lorraine looks at his watch. " So it is," says he
What a time I've been coming down here ! "

"The padrone had not taken his cafe latte before
he set out." Of this Dominique is sure, because
Caterina, the housekeeper, followed him down the path,
with the cafe latte in her hand, and he shook his head
at her. " He wouldn't have it ! " says Dominique,,
with a gesture of concern.

Where did you take Mr. Mildew ? "

Cospetto ! Where should I take him but to his
caves ? — he spends the half of his life there."

"The caves are by those rocks on the other side
of the bay ? " says Lorraine, looking that way.

Sicuro."

You did not stop to bring him back ? "

]\Iais, non ! " Dominique represents that he has
been back some hours; that he has put out the nets
since then ; and that at this moment he is speaking to
his excellency. The fisherman's reasoning is logical.

Lorraine says, " Very well," and at the next turn

they come in sight of the white-fronted house. "There's
the house." Lorraine addresses this remark to no one
in particular, but he begins to walk again at his striding
pace.

Carmina vito, vito," says Dominique, sotto voce.
" What did you say ? " asks Lorraine.

Monsieur marche vite."

You get out the boat," is Lorraine's reply. " We
will go as far as the point below the village in it. If
we wet our feet something, it will be better than that
walk up the hill."

We — that is, Mr. Mildew and Mr. Lorraine.
Lorraine means to be all that is civil, as he has-promised.
Moreover, he has vowed to bring Mr.
Mildew back with him. To do this, he will have to put
his ill manners in his pocket.

Dominique touches his cap and hunches up his
sash, as if preparing to get under way, and says,.
"a votre service" with unmistakable satisfaction. He
is glad of such a fare, for Lorraine has got the character
of parting with his money pretty freely.

They are at the gate now, and Lorraine and the
fisherman part company for the present.

Don't lose any time," and as he speaks Lorraine
enters the avenue of oleanders. He goes quickly
through it to the house, and rings the door-bell
loudly.

It is answered by Mr. Mildew's man, Tito.

"Can I speak to Mr. Mildew?" Lorraine takes

for granted, in a natural way, that all the household
understand their master's language.

The man shakes his head.

Monsieur Mildew est il chez lui ? " is Lorraine's
next attempt.

Another shake of the head and silence is still the
reply.

Tito is true Italian of his peculiar type. His face
thin and dark, and much hollowed under the eyes ; his
hands small and bronzed ; his limbs flexible and well
shaped ; his expression keen and stolid ; his eyes long
and half closed — no doubt, they open wide enough in
pleasure or in passion.

Lorraine is at a loss to interpret this second shake
of the head. The man seems to comprehend his difficulty.
He suddenly retires, and as suddenly returns
with Caterina the housekeeper, who has also the honour
of being his wife.

Now, Caterina has none of her husband's taciturnity
;j she has no objection to converse in any
language, whether she understands it or not. She,
too, has something of a polyglot at her fingers' ends ;
but chiefly she prides herself upon her English accomplishments.
She can boil potatoes au naturel,
make dry toast, and even buttered; and can understand
an English sentence if it does not go beyond
three words.

Foreign servants in those days, whatever they maybe
now, were pleasant, friendly creatures to deal with.

They served you with a good will, and with an eye to
your interest as well as their own. They did not think
the less of you if you didn't understand their language,
and it was a glory and a joy to them if they were able
to address a sentence to you in your own.

Caterina is a comely woman, not young — at least
not young for the South ; her face is fresh and fat and
round, and a cap of fluted muslin encloses it ; her
complexion is olive, and her hair scanty. She has
good living and little to do, and she does that little
sheltered from the mid-day sun. Hence the advantage
of a smooth skin which she has over her friends and
neighbours.

The padrone not yet come," she says ; and the
little face assumes an anxious look. " And he go so
soon away in the day. No cafe latte ! " and she
shakes her head sadly.

Lorraine's looks display more vexation than sympathy.


"Me ne displace excellent! The signer come
in ? " and she opens the door back at its widest.

Lorraine does not see much else to be done but to
go into the house and wait. So, for the first time
since here he has been, he crosses Mr. Mildew
threshold.

All this time Tito is lurking in the background.
At the first symptoms of this move on Lorraine's
part, he springs forward, and pushes Caterina aside,
with a broad hint not to interfere with his part of the-reception.


S'accomodi, signer, s'accomodi ; " and he pulls
out an easy-chair when they get into the room.

But Caterina is not to be cut out. She makes a
flank movement, and slips sideways to the front.
^' Che bella giornata ! " and she throws open the
windows, and points to the sea.

Tito, poor fellow, is accustomed to be beaten — that
is the difference between him and Caterina ; and, as
usual, he retreats, with a scowl of weak protest.
Caterina, left mistress of the field, continues to do the
honours. She points again to the beauty of the view ;
then she pushes open the jalousie of a third window,
which looks towards the mountains.

Bella veduta ! " she says.

But Lorraine looks very unresponsive. Perhaps
the stranger prefers works of art to the beauties of
nature. Caterina displays the charms of an alabaster
vase.

Lorraine says, " Grazia " and " Grazia," and affects
to plunge himself into the profound contemplation of
a book-case.

Ah ! " cries Caterina, " it is the books of the
padrone to amuse the signer."

Lorraine makes no reply, more especially as the
book-case is locked, and his amusement can go no
further than the outside covers.

The padrone come now very quick. The padrone
is contentissimo to see sua excellent ; " and with this
terrible misstatement upon her lips, Caterina withdraws.


Mr. Mildew's parlour was all that a bachelor could
desire. A pretty-sized oblong room, with windows
south and east. The floor is neither of marble nor of
concrete plum-pudding, but of polished brood, with
comfortable-looking rugs spread about it. The walls
are thick, with glass cases, holding books, and stones,
and bones, and bottled snakes. Over each case is a
bust; Dante's melancholy profile, and Shakespeare's
bold forehead are not to be mistaken. The Dante is
grandly cut ; it is not white, but of a deep waxy hue
which adds to the expression. A lovely marble fawn
is a pendant, to a dying gladiator in bronze; and a
plaster model of the Temple of Fortune occupies a
facade over the doorway. In a recess stands a buffet
of black marble, with a rough-coloured fresco of
Leonardo's " Last Supper " above it. An open grate
with lately charred pine logs, betrays that the master
of the mansion is insular still in his taste for the
bachelor's best companion. On the green-covered table
a few books and papers lie scattered carelessly, and in
the centre, in Parian, are Pliny's doves.

Most things are represented in this room — Christian
and Pagan art, Nature in past and present, man's genius
and his works, and the mute creation. Woman alone
finds no place ; — neither in stone nor on canvas is there
any trace of her ; and, but for the comely Caterina, you
might have imagined yourself in that planet, wherever
it may be, which has the happy secret of getting
on without her. This room would have suited that

ancient Greek who exclaimed, "Hated sex! neither
in fortune nor in misfortune shall you come within
these walls ! "

But why does Lorraine so quickly change his-lounging
attitude? What is this which has caught
his eye of a sudden, hid in the depths of that snowy
vase, with the four white doves for guardians over it ?
Lorraine knows it at a glance. His lip curls. AVhat
does it do here, this small single yellow glove ?

Lorraine holds it up to view, between finger and
thumb, and then jerks it deliberately out of the open
window.

It was not well done. Yet why is Lady Laure's
small yellow glove lying perdu in Pliny's vase ?

Alas ! poor Mr. Mildew ! here was woman after alL

Now the amiable Caterina again makes her appearance.
" Time ! Where, then, is the padrone ? Has hi
excellency taken breakfast ? "

Lorraine nods his head, and goes back to his
*' Grazia, Grazia."

But Caterina is not satisfied. She is under the
fixed impression that the stranger is come to breakfast
with her master, and she is in despair at the delay on

this account, as well as from her concern at the long
fast of the padrone.

Will the signor not take a glass of good wine ?
It might pass the time away, and she could accompany
it with even an excellent costoletta — a cutlet of
mutton ! "

Lorraine's negative becomes animated now; but
Caterina is unwilling to give him up. Sitting there
all alone, she feels that she ought to contribute something
either to his amusement or to his nourishment.
She strains her wits in vain to find something to door
to say, till at last it strikes her that she will put
the bunch of white heath blooms out of the sun, which
is shining full upon them, beside Lorraine's hat.
'•' For di prima vera," she says, smiling.
Lorraine divides the pretty sprigs, and presents
her gallantly with the half, in the devout hope that
she will take the flowers and go. But Caterina only
sees in this polite attention an encouragement to stay.
Suddenly a bright idea comes into her head. The
"giornale Inglese," where is it? She rummage up
and down ; but it is nowhere to be found.

Now it is Lorraine's turn for a bright idea. He will
read, never mind what the book is. Anyhow, he will get
quit of her this way. At the furthermost corner from
his too friendly tormentor stands a reading-desk, with
a large quarto volume upon it, and the pages are
open; it is close to the eastern window. Lorraine
makes for the book at once. He draws a stool up to

VOL. I. R

the desk, and sits down. With his back well in
Caterina's face, he begins to turn over the pages
haphazard, but with his eyes riveted upon them.

Caterina sees now only a pair of broad shoulders
and the back of a head. But she is not quite played
out; the big book gives her another chance. She
comes nearer ; she even lays a hand upon the desk.
"Yes, why did she not think of it before? In this
gran' libro,' the padrone writes down words every day.
They must be beautiful ; but, as for Caterina, she does
not know ; for * Dio lo sa ' she cannot read ; no, nor
write. But the signor can. He will find much to
please him, for the padrone is 'un savin,' as all the
world knows, and this book is full of the padrone's
words. Only this very morning he sat at this desk,
just as the signor is sitting, with his pen in his hand ;
but that was very early, very early ; and then he went
away without his cafe latte, and *che cosa lacrimevolel'
he is not yet returned ! "

So she prattles on, in her pretty Tuscan chiefly ;
for Tito and Caterina are not natives of these hills.
But the musical tongue does not move Lorraine even
by a hair's breadth. Caterina's last chance fails her ;
there is nothing left for her but to retire. Had Tito
been a witness of the scene, it would have done his
enslaved soul much good.

Lorraine turns the leaves of the big book backwards
and forwards, and arrives by degrees at the
conclusion that he has come upon sir. Mildew's

commonplace book. He finds no scruples about looking
into it. There it lies wide open ; nobody sets down
secrets in an open book! If there had been, Mr.
Mildew might have inscribed them safely enough, for,
as Caterina had declared, God knows, she and Tito
were no scholars.

Musty stuff! " says Lorraine, as he looks into one
page after another. Scientific data, genealogical
trees, philological roots, geological facts, classical
extracts, songs in an unknown tongue — probably the
folk-songs of the peasants ; these occupy half the
volume or more.

Then follow a dozen or so of blank sheets, and
then the writing becomes* closer and smaller. It is in
Mr. Mildew's mother tongue, and takes the character
of original thought.

Lorraine looks through it all, now with a laugh,
and now with a shrug, and now with a look of
supreme disdain.

If the absent man could but have known — what
this man present was about !

Lorraine comes upon a sentence that fits the case

well—

If we only think about it long enough, we shall be
ready to own that perhaps the strangest, and certainly
the happiest thing in life, is our total ignorance of things
pertaining to ourselves, when beyond the reach of our
finite senses. Happy, indeed 1 What a curse would be infinite
knowledge, joined to finite powers I "

Let us look with Lorraine a little further, since

we have the chance, into this poor absent man's mind.
For the most part grave and sad, and not without a
touch of cynicism; and yet with what insisting
sympathy are the thoughts set down! Something
formal, perhaps, like an echo from an older age, taking
the colour of his life, and reflecting its trials and consolations.
What a chord of his lonely existence this
sentence strikes ! —

How good to have done with the world ; to have
passed the limits of the harassing exigencies which belong
to it ; to have shut the door on those importunate guests
which besiege the soul — the fears, the hopes, the deceptions,
the glamour of social intercourse, of w^orldl}'-
interests, the struggle with fortune, the agony of failure !
How great the good to live alone, humble, unfettered, unknown,
face to face with conscience ! How tranquillizing
to have no communion but self-communion ! How great
the calm of the man who expects nothing but a grave ! "

How the man's melancholy humanity breaks out
here ! —

*' Life exists by death. Nature, that loving mother,
has but one fundamental law — the law of blood. She
gives to her children a law, not for the weak, but for the
strong ; she teaches them that the law of preservation is
the law of destruction. Man the lord of all, the brutes his
slaves, alike are bound by the same gory code. Their
terrible necessity, stops with a satiated maw ; with
man alone it has no limits — no limits to the murderous
ascffressor, no limits to the avenp-er of blood, to fields of
carnage, to defaced human corpses. Before everything,
death ! This has been the cry from the beginning, not of
savage ignorance alone, but of the highest aspirations of

human progress. It is the war-cry of new truths against
old forms. Martyrdoms, massacres, sacrifices, — by these
have truth and liberty been bought; thus have superstition
and despotism been maintained; thus alone are
they overthrown. But the law of blood stops not here.
By death come the comforts, the luxuries, the bare necessities
of life. All these are bought by such suffering, such
shortening of life, such torture to the human frame, that
the fortunate few who walk in pleasant places shrink
from fathoming the ghastly secrets of these living charnel-houses,
and spare their decorous nerves a glimpse of these
skeletons of the mine, the labour-field, and the workshop !
To these, add the dumb victims of man's sport, and science,
amusements, experiments, pursued without a pang, or
rather with a pernicious enjoyment. See, too, with what
a dainty content the fine lady decks herself in feathers ;
with what an equable eye the child watches the moth
fluttering round the flame ! Man points to the volcano
that overwhelms the cities; the floods that sweep away
the hamlets; the avalanche that buries shepherd and sheep;
and appeals to nature to justify his acts."

Monomaniac !" is Lorraine's verdict. "But this
is worse. Come ; the man is a perfect ogre ! "

I partake of all animal food with the utmost reluctance.
When I sit down to my solitary meal, the force of
habit, hunger, and preoccupation cannot conquer my
involuntary shudder when I touch with my lips, grind
with my teeth, a body which, an hour ago, was instinct
with life; which lived, breathed, moved; which was
possessed of feeling, affection, understanding, and God
knows how many more qualities of the mind and heart in
common with myself; — I sicken with disgust, and push
from me the remains of the murderous meal ! "

* Sicken with disgust I ' and so do I," cries
Lorraine, aloud. " Only a depraved old cannibal could
have such revolting thoughts. Why can't he eat his
cabbages, if he likes them, without this red sauce ? "

It is no borrowed figure of speech. These painful
realities, pushed under his nose by mr. Mildew's morbid
lucubrations, do actually cause such a rising of his
gorge that, at this moment, the sight of Caterina's
costoletta might have produced upon Lorraine the effect
of an emetic. He does not feel the kindlier towards
Mr. Mildew for all this.

He pushes the book away from him with a look of
supreme disdain, and the leaves turn over of themselves.
At the top of the page under his eyes is this
sentence —

*' The proverb says, ' He who can live alone must bo
either a beast or a god.' Why should he not be a god ? "

Well done ! " laughs Lorraine to himself. "That's
pretty well for such an old mole ! "

The next sentence also excites a scornful smile —

I hold out my hand with distrust to be pecked b}'
strange birds that come from distant lands. I see that
their feathers are fine ; but still I suspect them to be birds
of prey."

Ah ! he calls me a bird of prey, no doubt."
Well, Lorraine was not far wrong there. After this
come a variety of headings : " Old Graveyards," " Unknown
Dust," " Vestiges of Man," " Vanity of Science."
Quite enough, without going further, to make Lorraine

pass them over. But again the text becomes sententious
—

Ready for everything ; resigned to everything ; so
best we live."

But Lorraine has had enough of moralizing, when
his attention is once more arrested — ■

' Quant ca labors in Charybdis ! ' Observe, we say, fall
in love. It is, then, a fall, therefore a misfortune, possibly
a degradation."

By Jove ! he's right," cries Lorraine. " But what
does he know about it ? "

This judgment upon the tender passion, which so
strongly coincides with his own, leads him with a
greater interest on —

How drear 3^ this room is ! How its silence presses on
me ! How this life of loneliness begins to tire, to try,
to exhaust my patience ! In vain does the head seek to
absorb itself ; the heart will have its claims. Have I not
said, ' Be patient ; follow the straight line ; look neither to
the left nor to the right ; take nature for your friend ;
give, but do not take ; minister to want, but bear your
own burdens ; take your soul up to the solitary heights,
where the air is untainted ; hamper it not with the allurements
of the lower earth ; he who would travel surely
takes little baggage ? ' O my God, Thou modest me. Thou
knowest me; I slid not make, I know not myself. Great
Father, let me suffer; but let it not be in this solitary
cell."

The madness," thinks Lorraine, " is setting in
now."

T. -J-

The man who lives in solitude is very soon alone I
Great reader of the human heart, how true that is ! These
poets, these inspired men, this Goethe, this Shakespeare,
this Dante, they are as gods ; they know us ; to them we
must go to understand our own souls. Now I recognize
the hollowness of self-absorption. Have I not said that
the chiefs blessing, is our ignorance of that which is to
come. Possessed of prescience, could I have lived unconsumed
by the fire of my impatient heart, through all these
past long years, all these dull, heavy days and nights that
did divide me from the delight that now intoxicates ? "

Intoxicates ! " criesXorraine. " Intoxicates what ?
—him?"

The page is no longer pursued with an indifferent
eye. Lorraine stares at it, as if he would stereotype
each word —

How gay is my life ; how friendly ! I seem to have
lived all my days with them. How they spoil me ! They
flatter me ; they talk to me of themselves, of their affairs ;
they talk before me as if I belonged to them ; they are so
glad to see mc ; they complain if I am absent ; they expect
me always. We sit together; we walk together; she
and I ; we gather the flowers ; we rest by the way ; she
loves to listen ; she loves to learn from me — she is never
weary with me. When the sun is low, we come back
together ; we pass the evening in happy talk ; we are all
content. So go the days ; the parting brings no sigh ;
we meet again tomorrow. How kind the ' Good-night ' !
how sincere the * Come early ' ! Has not an angel comedown
about my path ?

I came upon these lines just now. Let them speak forme.
My heart is too full for my own thoughts to-day —

' femmes, quel pouvoir vous fut donne sur nous !
Nous soissons vos amants ; nous mourons vos epoux !
Nous prisons enchanted d'un regard, d'une large,
Le bonheur dans vos yeux, des lois a tos genoux.
Contre vous c'est en vain que la raison, nous arme
Et les plus vieux sont les plus fous ! ' "

Fools, indeed, the whole lot of them ! " breaks
from Lorraine. " But whose life is it ? What's the
meaning of all this rant ? "

Of late, books and I have been strangers. I took up
my ' Petrarch ' last night ; I read my old favourite now
with a new understanding. In the early sonnets there is
but the fancy of the poet; in the ' Trionfo della Morte' I
find the feelings of the man. I find no echo now in my
once beloved ' Vita Solitary.' Once it seemed to be my
very self that spoke as I read those lines ; now it is in the
Secret Conflict ' — in that sublime picture of the desolating
weakness of the human heart, that I find the sympathy
I seek. Ah ! Petrarch ; when you and I meet to discourse
in the Elysian fields, thou shalt not boast too much of thy
peerless Laura ; for to-day I see a fairer one beside me."

Lorraine lifts his eyes from the book for a moment.
They are not pleasant eyes just now. " Insolent old
scoundrel ! " mutters he, " with his peerless Laura ! He
had better take care ! "

* Come, live with me, and be my love,
And we will all the pleasures prove,
That valleys, groves, and hills, and fields,
Woods and sleepy mountains yield.'

"I have been transported to-day; transported with
delight. It is a life-time since these sweet lines came to

250 PRINCE FORTUNE AND PRINCE FATAL.

my memory. As we walked and talked, my lips murmured
them, but not aloud — not aloud. And yet lie was
fain to ask me what I said ? What I said ; what I felt ;
what I am ? I am lifted to heaven. And yet, with what a
rapture of pleasure do I tread this dear earth !

"0 man, man! Dost know thyself? Mad, mad as
Marlowe, poor wretch ! wild as his passionate shepherd ;
madder, wilder, more wildly passionate than any ! "

Hullo ! " says Lorraine ; and he starts to his feet
again. " What, in the name of Heaven, is the meaning
of this diabolical rubbish ? " And he reads fiercely on —

What a garden of Eden I live in I I shudder ; I
tremble with the joy that fills my being ; I turn cold in
her presence ; I fear my transports. Can a madman
bridle his mad tongue ? Can he steady his mad brain ?
Reason only compels to silence. While I have my reason
I am dumb ; but madness, like wine, reveals the truth.
Great Heaven, let me but keep) my reason !

To L .

Lower thy large, sweet eyes,
Blue as the skies.
Lower thy large, sweet eyes.

Thy faultless presence veil,
So chaste and pale.
Thy faultless presence veil.

Thy lips let silence tie,
While I pass by.
Thy lips let silence tie.

For sight of beauty slays
Who dares to gaze.
The sight of beauty slays."

Lorraine reads no more. He upsets the book ; lie
stamps his heel into it with impotent fury. He is pale
with rage and hatred.

Good God ! " he cries ; " this monster — this old
cannibal is in love with Laure ! "

He strides up and down the room, giving the
hapless volume a kick at each turn. He calls down
Heaven to punish the imbecile invader of his rights —
rights, Heaven knows, he has set but little store by !
He heaps up all the abuse, all epithets that injure
and dishonour—" Villain! " " Fool ! " " Fungus ! " They
flow freely out, until he stops from pure exhaustion.
And then he turns upon the book again ; he seizes it
up savagely.

Let's have the rest of his impudence ! " and he
tears over the unoffending leaves in mad haste.

The rest of Mr. Mildew's impudence is not much.
There are but half a dozen words more inscribed in the
volume, and after these the sheets are blank. At the
head of these few words stands the date of this very
day itself. The ink has not long been dry —

All is over now. My God, forsake me not ! Be with
me to the end, and bless them both ! I ask no more."

Lorraine stands suddenly becalmed. The agony of
the man yesterday rushes into his mind, — this man
who, in his great agony, gives still blessings for curses ;
these blessings come with no preparation, with the
force of the unexpected.

Therein lay their power upon Lorraine.

He stands, holding the ill-starred book in his hands,
as if at a loss what to do with it. At last he closes
it; but the crumpled leaves will not go down. He
presses them out upon the desk, but to no avail. And
now he sees that the back has given way ; there is a
split from top to bottom in the leather back. He tries
to hold it together, but the loosened leaves slip
through. This crack, this leather crack, fills him with
a keen remorse.

Never mind, happy son of Fortune. Never mind
the leather crack. What is that to the cracked heartstrings
of the poor Old Fungus ?

There is a gloom in the room ; the jalousies must
have swung to. Lorraine will remain in it no longer.
He takes his hat, flings the white heath blooms that
lie beside it ruthlessly on the hearth, and goes straight
out of the room and out of the house.

Caterina catches the sound of his footstep, and
follows after him with all speed. Lorraine goes down
the oleander avenue as if he were escaping for his life.

Beyond the gate stand Dominique and Kenzo, the
long-legged lad who had led the chorus before the
orange grove.

Lorraine looks furtively round. There is Caterina
on his heels. He seizes the boy by the nape of the
neck, and swings on forward with him half a dozen

yards. " Now, sing to me ! " he cries, breathless with
the exertion.

Caterina, in the gate, looks out with her sharp eyes,
but Lorraine is in full talk with man and boy.

"Bestrode !" hisses Caterina between her teeth. The
game is off. There is no need for her to keep to terms
any longer. She shuts the gate with a swing and disappears.


Lorraine gives himself a shake of relief. His ruse
has succeeded. He is well content to have got clear
of the house and the housekeeper. His further search
for Mr. Mildew shall be in different company. But
somehow his desire for a song relaxes.

Dominique, however, sticks to the programme. He
takes the boy by the shoulders, and puts him against
the sea-wall. "Sing," he whispers in his ear, "and
you'll get a bit of money."

Kenzo's wits are still scattered by Lorraine's raid
upon his person.

Sing, then," says the boatman, again. " Let it bethe
* Mariner de la Marina.' "

Lorraine is paying only half attention. He wakes
up with the song. He is dead to many good things,
but not to sweet sounds ; their influence upon him
may be more physical than anything else. Hence
his pleasure in these simple strains of the people.

Kenzo is still panting, but his voice comes apace.
The air is wild, sweet, and monotonous ; it is for two.
First sings the belle —

mariner de la marina,
Oh, cane me d'iina cannon,
Sii la for de I'acua,
Sii la for del mar."

Then the mariner replies —

Monte Bela su la mia barca ;
La cannon mi la canter."

The ballad is a stirring one, and Kenzo is soon absorbed
in it. He sings how the belle stept into the bark, and
how the mariner began to sing and to sing till they had
sailed full five hundred miles away, singing always the
same song ; and how the little belle begged hard to betaken
back ; and how the mariner only says she is five
hundred miles away ; and how the belle cries, weeping,
"What will my mother say?" and how the mariner
answers, "Think not of the mother. Think of the
gallant mariner;" and how the belle says to him,
My stomacher is knotted, gallant mariner ; lend me
your sword;" and how the belle takes the sword
from his hand, and sets it deep in her heart.

When Kenzo comes to this point, he throws all the
tragedy of the story into his eyes and attitudes. He
is grand in the mariner's curse upon himself and his
sword —

Oh, maledetta asia la speja,
E cu la man ch'a i I'ha presto ! "

Then his voice sinks into a dirge-like wail, as the
mariner makes his lament. *' Never, my belle, never,
little belle, shall I take you in these arms alive ; but
dead they shall go round your fair body." And the

finale is that he takes her by her two white hands and
throws her into the sea. And then comes the refrain,
which is gay and light —

Sii la for de I'acua,
Sii la for del mar."

There is a desperate realism in the whole affair. Now
the singer is the little belle; now — the gallant
mariner, j^ow his head is flung back, and his arms
are in the air ; now the long black hair covers the face,
and his hands are clasped; — passion, fear, despair, —
he simulates all by turns. It is a whole opera with
one actor.

Beau ! beau ! " cries Dominique.

Lorraine's ears are chained, but his thoughts are
not with the song.

The boy stares at him, expecting his reward ; but
he looks absently up and down the road.

What can have become of that old man ? " says he.

Yecchio," answers Dominique. " Mezzo vecchio,"
he adds, with an air of demurring.

"Mezzo vecchio," echoes Kenzo, comprehending
the drift. They will not have that their patron is
more than half old. " K'ome o pu fort," says Kenzo,
with a look of contempt at Lorraine. "He is the
strongest man here." Kenzo is secretly indignant
with Lorraine for neglecting both to praise and to pay
for the song he commanded.

Here, boy," says Lorraine, reminded by Renzo's
sulky air. And he gives him about as much as the

boy will earn in the boats in a month. It is not
much of a sum after all, and the boy works well too.
But if his pay is small, his wants are few ; and, as
they say down here, 'the man who has money, has
cares."

Tito, with his hands in his pockets, has lounged
down from the house to see what they are about.
Perhaps he has heard of Caterina's discomfiture, her
resentment having unloosed her tongue, and given
him this advantage over her. He certainly wears a
livelier countenance.

We will take the boy with us. Get the boat ready,
Dominique," says Lorraine.

Dominique shakes his head at Lorraine's order.
It's no good taking him ; he has his work down thereat
the quay. The Bonclinella is light, it can push in
anywhere; it can be at the creek below the villa in
half an hour."

Now it is Lorraine's turn to shake his head. " I
am going to the rocks," says Lorraine.

Carcase il patron ? No good ; he will be on the
hills now."

I shall go all the same ; get the boat afloat."

Dominique is no loser by the arrangement ; but his
honesty gets the better of his cupidity. He shrugs his
shoulders, and appeals to Tito if this is not pure waste
of time and money.

Tito thrusts his hands still deeper into his pockets.
Ci vol pazienza," he says, looking wide of Lorraine.

Pazienza! Lorraine thinks he has had patience
enough !

What's to be done when he gets to the caves, he
doesn't clearly see. But when he is put up to it, he
hates to give up the point. " Perhaps," thinks he, " he's
rehearsing the weeping scene at the villa ; " but somehow
Lorraine has an instinct that this is not the case.

Anyhow, in five minutes the Bondinella is launched,
and they are ois ; but not before Tito has received, with
profound bows, a substantial reward for silence. So
does one reap where another has sown. It is rather
hard upon Caterina.

The bay is gay to-day, rowing craft and feluccas
and larger vessels in the offing. There is a brisk
afternoon breeze ; the small square sail is hoisted, and
the swift dip of the Rondinella is worthy of her name.
Nothing could be pleasant; the day is perfect, the
sky is bright, the sea as blue as ever. But it does
not raise Lorraine's spirits. He is thoroughly upset
and bored by the whole thing. As he said afterwards,
if he had known it, he wouldn't have undertaken it fora
fortune. But the gist of the matter was that he did
not know it.

"Can you find these caves when you're there?"
asks Lorraine.

Dominique points to the boy who has come with
them. "Kenzo knows it all well. He goes often to
the caves, and breaks the bits of rocks for the patrons'*

"Eight."

VOL. I. '-f- S

"Where does he go most?" asks Dominique of
the boy.

D'intre le parma clou Pavillon," answers Kenzo.

"It's the deepest of the grottoes," says the boatman
to Lorraine.

"What's this? Why are you going so far out?"
Lorraine has an idea that the man wishes to spin out
the time.

The river," says the boatman, without turning his
head. Whilst he loosens the sail and shifts the
course, it is as much as he can do to steady the light
craft. Soon the difficulty is past, and they tack in
again, and Lorraine recognizes the ledge of rock and
the reefs, where he and Lady Laure had passed an
anxious hour.

Dominique shoots past it, and round the projecting
rock. "We shall go ashore here," he said.

The boat is soon run in, and made fast to a ring
sunk in a plate of rock.

It is the patron who put it," says Dominique, ashe
tightens the chain round it, " ten years ago now."

Ten years," thinks Lorraine — " ten years digging
up old bones ! The man is certainly cracked ; there's
everything to prove that." It is his final conclusion
as to Mr. Mildew, and the most charitable thought he
has ever had about him.

The scene is lonely enough ; nothing but rock and
sea and sky. The sides of the rocks are as lurid as
ever, with their red and yellow streaks in the sun.

Lorraine looks round him from the point of rock
on which he stands. " There is no way up here," he
says, " that I can see."

Dominique gives a nod to the further end of the
inlet; and then, muttering something about hunger
and thirst, goes back into the boat, and, sitting down
in it with the boy, brings out about a yard of bread
and a bottle of wine — at least, he calls it wine ; the
bread also has a doubtful appearance, — to look at it,
you would say its colour and consistence were much
the same as the rocks about them. But Dominique
has no complaint to make either of the bottle, or the
bread; and he is also hospitable, and calls to Lorraine
to come and share their repast.

Lorraine's "No" is too decisive to be mistaken.

"The signer wants a good appetite," says the
boatman, with a laugh ; and he fills a tin can with his
sour beverage, and, drinking it off, says, "A votre
santa."

They take their time over their meal. Meanwhile,
Lorraine is impatiently practising the goose step up
and down the boulders.

The best thing and the worst, in that transitory
affair which we call life, must have an ending, and so
with Dominique's frugal meal — the bottle is emptied,
the fragment of bread pitched into the stern, and man
and boy are on their feet.

Vite ! Presto ! " cries the boatman ; and at the
words the lad goes leaping away over the boulders and

gullies, with the agility of a monkey, till he gets to the
base of the lowest wall of the cliff, and there vanishes.

Lorraine, who is following with the boatman at a
more sedate pace, stops and points to the spot where
the boy has disappeared. "What has become of
him?"

Va bene ; va bene ! " says Dominique, the ruggedness
of the way cutting his politeness short.

Once arrived at the base of the rock, the mystery
is explained. A narrow spiral ascent is cut in a breach
of the cliff; it goes up in a zigzag, and can only be
perceived when close upon it; it is merely hacked,
something like the steps cut in ice. This they follow,
turning always inwards and leaving the sea, until, after
a stiff bit of pointing, they reach a level, where a
little soil has gathered, the tamarisk grows in tufts, the
trailing stone-crop patches the grey stone, and the
wild pink shoots up in the crevices and corners. Under
this burning sun, its fragrant blooms perfume the rocky
enclosure, as scented flowers fill the heated glass-house,
with their rich odours. To one side of the small
plateau are the remains of a charcoal furnace. It has
been disused for years, and the wonder is how the
wood was got down to burn in it. Close behind this,
juts up a fantastic bit of rock, split into two, after the
fashion of a stunted tree or a stag's horn.

"Echo," says the boatman, pointing to the split
rock. "Voila! that is the patron's parma cou
Pavillon."

At this moment the boy Kenzo's head appears
between the horns of the rock, beckoning them to
-come on.

The opening to the cave is dark and deep,
indented crags overhang it, and the fall is steep,
and under foot it is moist and slippery. With the first
bend the daylight is gone. Lorraine and the boatman
grope their way cautiously along, nor does Lorraine
disdain the assistance of the boatman's hand, though
he grumbles at the necessity, calling it a "den of a
place," which, indeed, it was.

"II fera jour la bas!" says the boatman. But
scarcely are the words out of his mouth, before a
piercing cry echoes as if from the bowels of the earth.

Dominique cries, " Dio ! " and drags Lorraine forward
; then, letting go his hand, he dashes on, regardless
of everything.

The consequences to Lorraine are disastrous. He
falls heavily, and is half stunned by coming sharply
against a projecting crag.

The boatman's voice gets fainter and fainter as he
calls to the boy, " Renzo, mio povero ! Renzo ! "

Meanwhile, Lorraine is coming to himself. The
place in which he has stuck is something less than half
his height. He does not attempt to go forward or
backward, feeling convinced that, if he does, he shall
follow the example of the boy, and fall into some
bottomless pit or other. He crouches down, therefore,
in the damp gallery, and awaits in darkness the return

of the boatman. In time thus spent minutes appear
hours, and Lorraine is in no cheerful state of mind
altogether when, at last, he hears the boatman's steps
upon him.

"AVhat's it all about?"

Come and see ! " is the answer.

"Not I," says Lorraine. "I have had enough of
it. Help me out of the cave, and then you go back to
the boy."

Diavolo ! " and the boatman gives Lorraine to
understand that if he does not choose to go down to
the cave, he may stay where he is. He, Dominique,
knows of another way out, and he means to take it.

There is nothing like the persuasion of force and
necessity. With a bad grace, Lorraine tells the man
to give him his hand, to pull him up, to go back, and
he'll follow him. He is something stiff and bruised,
and thoroughly disgusted. " This comes," mutters he,
of this wild-goose chase after that old fool ! "

As they advance, the passage widens. There is a
chill, humid feeling, and a sound of the trickling of
water.

Gradually Lorraine becomes sensible of the powers
of vision. He sees again ; but it is through the
obscurity of a mist. But at a sharp turn, as they
enter the grotto itself, the full glare of daylight
streams in from a chasm above and almost blinds him.

The place has the air of a charnel-house rather
than a grotto. Bones and stones and charcoal dust lie

scattered about ; no graceful stalactites adorn the roof
and walls ; but, in their place, the water drips down,
blood red, from the rocks above.

Lorraine, still dazed with the change from dark to
light, exclaims, "Where is he, then? What has
become of him ? "

E morton," answers the boatman, solemnly.

Dead ! Impossible ! " says Lorraine, hurrying
across the cave, till his feet are stopped by stumbling
against something which is neither rock nor clay.

But no ; — clay, indeed, it was^living clay, only a
short span ago.

Lorraine's eyes are clear now ; a look of horror fills
them.

Dominique was right. Death is here; but it is
not youth, but age, that is laid low.

There sits the living Kenzo on the ground, holding,
with sobs and moans, the fallen head of Mr. Mildew.
Lifeless and prostrate, the body lay stretched in the
full glare of a ray of light, which shot like a prism
down upon the pale face, and lighted up with a halo,
the long grizzled hair dabbled in the blood-red ooze.

He's asleep ; he only sleeps ! " cries Lorraine.

Ah ! parlez bas, parlez bas," whispers Dominique.
II est mort ! "

Yes ; — speak low, for you are in the presence of the
great King of terrors.

But again Lorraine cries, "He sleeps; he only
sleeps ! "

He sleeps, indeed, the sleep of the Just. Look at
those folded hands, those closed lids, that smile on the
half-parted lips. Already the lines of care are gone
from the broad forehead; the face is like a marble
study in its sublime repose.

"What more ?

The hurried talk over the dead man ; the how ; the
why; the labour of removal. Pass over all these
things.

They stand by the water's edge, — the man and boy
reverently, and, with tears, bear their melancholy
burden into the boat. AYith a shudder, Lorraine steps
in last. They pull out ; the wind is against them, the
sail is useless.

The boatman looks ahead. " We shall not be therein
a minute," he said. " The wind is bad, and the boat
is low."

Yes, the burden is heavy as well as melancholy.
Now they round the rock and face the reefs creek.

Lorraine makes a quick start.

The boatman signs to him to be still, or he will
upset the boat.

Land me here ! " cries Lorraine.

*•' Land the signer ? "

Yes, yes. I know the way ; I shall walk."

It is a long walk."

Lorraine stands up and points to the creek.

The boatman has no desire to follow this po(»
padrone to the shades. He tins the boat to ibe lee&L
*• Sovez poet," he says, — steady to jmnp oat, when €be
boat touches, he means to say.

And Lorraine does jump. Good Heavens, what a
relief! How he welcomes this spot which he had
abused so lomidlT bnt a short while ago! The son is
getting low. Bather — a million times rather, will he pass
the night on this ledge or wandering about thine hilly
than sit for two hours side by side with that dead man!

Bnt before he can climb to the ledge, the boat hails
him again and puts back.

"^ I won't go with them ! " tows Lorraine, mentally ;
*^ not to saTe their lives." StiTI, he goes back to the
edge of the reese.

~ We will not take these," says Dominique, and he
hands to Lorraine a watch and chain, same pieces of
money, and a few fossil bits tied iq in a £iced silk
handkerchief. It looked very inch like that washed-out
cast-off of former days.

Lorraine leans forward mechanically, his aims out.
But again he dra^^ back. Xo ! not for words will he
touch these things !

But the boatman is not prepared for this
He opens his hands. Between the two, watch,
and fossa bits fall fethon^ down on to their deep sea
bed.

** DiaTolo ! Peste >:it ! " The man is between fear

and rage. To him, these last effects are of priceless
value — a value he has to answer for.

Oibo ! males ! " shrieks Eenzo ; which may betaken
to mean, " Oh, horror ! Oh, wretch ! "

The object of these maledictions is quite unconcerned
in regard to them, and not much moved by
the misfortune which has aroused them. He gives one
look after the lost property, which the waves of the sea
have closed over as surely — as irretrievably — as the
waves of death have closed over their once owner.

What can it matter ? " says Lorraine. *' Better so ! '*
and he turns short round, and is again on his way up
the cliffs.

The boy and the boatman stay, calling after him ;
but Lorraine is deaf.

Accidente ! " shouts Dominique, in other words,
Devil take him ! " He is exasperated to a pitch.
He uses the whole of his polyglot to curse him, and
sends the last after him, with a stentorian effort of his

lungs, in unmistakable English. " you ! you did

it ! You go away with you ! You not care one sou ! "

No avian vast ! no avian vast ! " cries Renzo, bearing
his testimony to Lorraine's evil deed.

But it is of no avail. Lorraine does not once turn
his head, and is soon beyond hearing and seeing. And
beyond the reach of the curses ? Well, that is another
matter. Some people think it is not a good thing to
have so many curses heaped up on your head.

It was the Teij inHf cf Face tint lagune AobIiI
1)6 Used to peifivm tiie» last offices for lEc. IGldew^—
the man vliflse Aeneas be ns, the 9nm vImb fce bad
atoned, hated, lomAeA, and lifiicoled.

Heiem let us bdKere and know lliat the dead aie
dead amongst the livii^; that A^liaie no eaiddj
ken, no human Mppaheaaitm, frcolfie^ or senses;
die tills poor son], but just set free^nooM baie i i^i
back again, to edit the miss, 'Better ao!"
back to Ind Maine let be, and meddle not !

CHAPTER XVII.

BROKEN HEARTS AND BROKEN HEADS.

When Time was young, Night 'met the Day, and the Day said to the

Night,
I, monarch of the Golden Rays, put thee. Black King, to flight.
Mount thy dark steeds with kindred Death, and rid me of thy

sight!"

With gloomy frown, lack-lustre smile, the Night said to the Day,

Bright Day ! Proud Life, gold-dowered crowns, your doom is to

obey."
Death conquers Life ; Day yields to Night; for ever and for aye !

It was a long walk, as Dominique had said — a very-long
walk, and many times Lorraine went astray in it,
hind nightfall had set in before it was accomplished.
But he was young and strong and a soldier ; he could
do a fatigue march as well as the rest, when needs
must. Still, short commons were not much in his way,
for, by virtue of his youth and his strength, he was
blessed with a good appetite, notwithstanding the boatman's
blunt remark, and, for the last hour or more of
his tramp, his mastering sensation was a ravenous
hunger.

In the growing dusk, he misses the track down the
valley, and, instead of the olive wood, he finds himself

still in the open, on the hills. He is on the point
of again turning back upon his steps — for many times
he has turned and turned — when, the moon breaking
brightly out, he sees the village half-way down the
heights below him. It lights up the rude slant of roofs
with the distinctness of a stereoscope.

At last ! " cried Lorraine, throwing up his arms.

No mariner, ocean-tost without a compass, ever
welcomed the watch-towers of his port mere fervently
than did Lorraine these white roofs. He feels his
heart yearn towards the rustic eyre. He has scarce
ever been up to the village, yet it is a spot at least
familiar to his eye, for it is within close hail of the
villa, and the sight of it speaks to him of bed and
board and friendly human faces.

Now that the long tramp is so near over, and
Lorraine has the above-mentioned blessings well in
hand, he can afford to pause and consider matters.

Better let them get off to bed before I appear.
I can't very well rehearse the affair of to-day by way
of after-dinner talk. Of course, there will be a scene,
and I hate a disturbance at night. I'm dead tired, too 1
I'll wait till I can go in and be quiet."

Well, it does not occur to him that Lady Laure
has had a long watch for his promised return with
Mr. Mildew, and may be watching still. To tell the
truth, subsequent events and exertions have thrown
that part of the day's business into the shade. But

if he is not to go straight to the villa, what is he
to do?

"Fm as famished as a wolf! I must have some
food somehow. I'd give a pound for that fellow's wine
and bread at this minute. I've a good mind," thinks
he, " to go down there and get something ; they must
have their bricks and vinegar, at any rate."

It is a wildish night ; the clouds chase across the
sky like huntsmen in pursuit. The stars appear and
disappear, like brilliant in their starry setting; and
now the moon is veiled, and now it floods the hills.

It is not the easiest scramble down to this toppling
cluster of habitations. The labyrinth of rocky stair-like
passages, which take the place of streets in it,
stops abruptly with the highest house ; but men and
horses travel well by night — the sense of feeling is,
strangely, a safer guide than the sense of sight — and
Lorraine, though not much of a mountaineer, makes
the descent in the chequered light, without adding
any more to his list of bruises.

Most of the houses are closed ; the people are a-bed
or abroad. They are sleeping or gossipping down on the
place of the church. It is a stage or two lower than
the village proper. You can even drive up to it, and
turn a horse and carriage in it. The difficulty is to
drive down again.

Lorraine follows the serpentine line of the sloping
houses. They are not ten feet apart, and nearly
meet overhead. What light there is in the sky is

excluded here. It is all but dark, and almost as steep
as getting down the mountain, and almost as risky;
for the irregularly cut steps make but a dangerous
footpath.

Lorraine taps at a window or two, but he taps in
vain; everything is shut up tight and still. Here
they have the habit of closing up doors and windows.
It is the savage instinct. Curled up in a space
scarce big enough to turn in, the head buried under
the breast — such is the wild animal's notion of a
comfortable housing, whether beast or man ; and in
the case of the human savage, it cannot be denied
that typhoid and similar dispensations are not sa
much his peculiar portion as of the luxurious tenant
of the airy apartment, furnished with a free ventilation,
especially with the drain-pipe.

Groping his way down, Lorraine comes upon one of
the mule-sheds, and breaks his hat against it. The rough
stable is formed by a bit of roofing stretched across the
foot-passage from house to house. In a more civilized
community the owner might have been summoned for
obstructing the public way ; but up here, so near to the
sky, the regulations of the lower world don't count for
much.

Opening under the stable-shed from the house to
the left hand is a door, with a few stones piled under
the sill, by way of reaching the level of it; a dirty
oil lamp, fixed to a hook on the opposite house wall,
reveals the backs of a couple of mules huddled together.

The creatures appear to be asleep. Over the
door, stuck into the roofing, is a branch of withered
pine. This gives hope of the refreshment he is seeking,
and Lorraine knocks loudly at the door. It gives
way under his hand, and he stands looking in through
the crack.

Dare a porta ! "

Open the door ! " comes from the interior in a
cracked and querulous voice.

Going further into the room, Lorraine perceives an
old crone crouched by the stone hearth. The logs are
alight upon it, and a pot hangs over it. The only
light comes from the occasional flicker of the resinous
wood. Lorraine calls his vocabulary to his aid —

Vin, earn pan."

This was very well, as far as communicating his
wants went, for the old woman begins to move.

U mestre no en casa," she says. But in spite of
the absence of the proprietor, she proceeds to satisfy
Lorraine's demands.' She takes the fellow lamp to the
one that is hanging in the stable-shed, and, lighting
it, opens an inner door. In this apartment, which is
scarcely six feet in height, there is a conglomeration
of all kinds of household gear. Shakedowns on the
floor, wearing apparel, both masculine and feminine,
thrown across ropes strung from side to side, bottles
and cups and dishes, and such coarse provender as the
house contains. Out of this uninviting ensemble the
old creature brings forth a rush, long-necked wine-flask

— peaceful, at least, in shape, swelling well at the
base and tapering high; it has no cork, — it is not

the kind of beverage to lay down in your cellar a

lump of bread, not much the better for being thick
instead of long; and a stick of salam. These she
brings in her arms, and pushes a wooden stool to the
table.

If Lorraine had been a connoisseur in such matters,
this table might have tempted him severely. Its
double spiral legs at the four corners, and the deep
cut carving of the quaint design on the broad brace
that held the legs together, made it a perfect gem in
its way. Lorraine, however, scorns bric-à-brac, and
everything of the sort. Use and comfort to him are
the only merits either in chairs or cups. He thinks
nothing of the table, but a great deal of what is upon
it, and falls to, without a grain of squeamishness. He
draws the broken mug which serves for a glass, and
devours the bread in hunches, and the salam ! — Well,
if he had owned to the truth, he would have said it
was the most delicious preparation he ever partook of.

The old woman stirs up the wood embers, then squats
down beside them with her skinny arms doubled across
her chest. She eyes her guest from time to time, with
a grin of satisfaction, which wrinkles up her old face
into hideous lines. She is taking good note how the
viands are disappearing ; and, as Lorraine disposes of
the last bit of sausage before him, she gets up and
goes again into the omnium gathered, and, feeling in

VOL. I. T

the pockets of one of the depending coats, she extracts
a slice of cheese — such cheese as the people of the
country eat as bread. It is not quite clear that she
has not purloined a piece of private property in
Lorraine's intention ; but it was, at the worst, an evil
deed, set in a frame of good works. But Lorraine does
not blacken her soul with this doubtful sin. He spares
the priest his casuistry in her next absolution. The
piece of cheese is motioned back to its place of concealment.
With that last bit of sausage Lorraine has
struck, or, it may be, hunger being appeased, fastidiousness
is returning.

But now for the reckoning. The old woman jabbers,
and Lorraine reckons up ; but they come to no conclusion,
no sum total, no understanding. The end of
it is that Lorraine holds a handful of coins in his hand,
and makes her a sign to take what she will.

It was a sight to see, — the old head trembling with
a very palsy of greedy joy, the sunken eyes glistening
like a snake's, and the bony fingers stretched out.
One large silver piece, shining like the moon among
the stars, excites a delirious cupidity. She makes a
desperate grab at it, but fails, for, in the act, there
comes a sudden hubbub outside, a scuffling of feet,
a confusion of voices, and the boy Eenzo rushes in,
with a mad troop of screaming women at his back,
the whole body howling, shrieking, and gesticulating.

U nostra patron ! Patron men ! mestre men !
^ mort ! e mort ! Dio ! ahi Dio ! "

When the boy Kenzo sees Lorraine, he points
wildly to him, crying out, " Es rome ! Es rome !
era stay ali ! Es rome ! " *

With the last "Es rome!" the whole female
brigade sets upon Lorraine. Before he knows where
he is, he is dragged from his seat, cuffed, scratched,
spit at, his hat is knocked off, his hair torn in handfuls,
his coat in strips.

Ka bestial ! Piece ch'una bestial ! Ko assassin !
O paire men ! paire ! men patron ! " So they
mingle blows and cries, assailing the victim on all sides.
Lorraine has not the faintest conception what the
row is about. Eenzo is knocked over, and is either
trampled on or has got out of the way. One thing
Lorraine sees — that he is in for it. He defends himself
^s best he can, pushing for the door, with his arms and
elbows. Fists he won't use against a woman, though
she be a fury incarnate. His height helps him.
Another minute, and he will be out of the door. But
when he remembers, what sort of an outside the door
has, the darkness and the steep and broken footway, his
spirits don't rise ; for he expects nothing less than to be
bowled down it, and have his neck broken for a finale.
But the Fates had decreed a different termination to
this affair. It was in the interval of that other minute
that the crisis came, brought about by the old crone
of the cabaret.

" This is the man ! This is the man ! He was there ! This is

the man ! "

Up to this critical moment she had been neutral.
She was too old for active fight, and there were hands
enough ; but when she sees, not indeed, Lorraine, but
her big silver piece escaping bodily out of the door,
she at once takes sides, and, seizing upon the stool on
which her guest had sat, she thrusts it into the hands
of the lustiest virago of the lot. This one is not slow
to use it. Up it goes, flourished by one leg, and the
next instant Lorraine is floored by a well-aimed blow
on the back of his head.

Murder is in the air, and will be done, for the
women are beginning to kick and stamp ; but Lorraine,
though doomed to fall, was not to die upon this ignominious
battle-ground. At the door appears Dominique
the boatman, and half a dozen others, who have come
up to the cabaret to talk over the story he has to tell.

Dominique takes the thing pretty coolly, for he
has seen the world.

Mr. Mildew cold and a corpse, Lorraine senseless
and bleeding — two tragedies for one day's work rouse
him to action, but do not scatter his wits. Dominique
if he chose, could tell you of more tragedies than
this, and in fewer hours ; could carry you into more
stirring scenes; could take you away from this tame
terra firma, and stir your blood with stories of life, and
of death too, upon the high seas.

Time was but the boatman has done with those

wild days; he passes for a peaceable man now. His
bread-winner is the little Rondinella, Still, he keeps

his cool head and steady hand ready for emergencies,
and with these good aids, he heads his mates now, and
goes to the rescue without any of Lorraine's delicate
reserve about the weaker sex. To him and his band, a
woman who fights, is a fighting animal, and must be
met on her own ground.

It is a sight to see ! The seven champions use all
the weapons nature has given them, fists and feet, and
whatever comes handy. They make short work of it.
The attack changes sides, and the victory too. The
fair ones seem to know their masters, and take to their
heels with a vengeance.

With the clearing off of the women, there commences
an active discussion between the men. Great odds, is
the order of the day. They are six to one — Dominique
on one side, and his six mates upon the other. The
six are for leaving Lorraine where he is, and entering
into a silent bond " to know nothing; of the matter. "^
They do not wish to have to answer for the handiwork
of those mescJiine free — those miserable women. But
Dominique will not hear of it. He orders them to lift up
the ionic, and follow with him down to the villa of the
)Signor Inglese. Dominique himself will go forward
and prepare the family. In all things the boatman
comports himself like a man of the world.

His mates, however, still hesitate. Then the boatman's
ire begins to show itself — in the flash of his
eye, which, like the lighthouse, gives warning that
the coast is dangerous, and in the two lines of his
I. small,

white teeth. The look of the tiger comes into
his face, his hand hides itself in the breast of his
loose flannel shirt. Report says that within that loose
shirt there is a whole armoury of deadly weapons.
The common knife the man disdains to run into his
neighbour. It sticks in his sash, to be sure; but it
cuts up nothing redder than bread and cheese, and
takes the lives of none but cold-blooded creatures of
the fishy tribes — ; but maybe, on the principle of an
armed peace, Dominique humours the rumour, and
passes for more defensive than he is. Whether or
no, he stands now, with his hand still in his breast,
and runs his eye — along from man to man.

Ben ! Ave cape ? " says he. " Do you hear ? do
you understand me ? "

Yes, without a doubt, they hear, they understand,
they prepare to obey. There are to be no more
tragedies at present.

But at this point of the proceedings, the boy Kenzo
reappears upon the scene of action. He comes out of
the inner apartment. In that retreat his quick eye,
in the onset of the fray, detected a safe refuge, and
during its fury he lay well-nigh smothered under the
largest shakedown. After the arrival of the relief
party, he had ventured to watch the progress of affairs,
with his head just out; but now he comes forward,
with his gaillaird air come back again, in spite of
the calamities of the day. Perhaps he has been
regaling himself under his shakedown with the good

things of his retreat ; or, may be, the boy was tired of
the dismal side of things, and wanted to sing again.

He is now all eagerness to attract attention. He
alone is in the secret ; he alone can give the true
history of this night's affair. It is quite in his style
too — highly dramatic. As he proceeds, he versifies it
with his natural gift. The men's eyes are fixed upon
him ; they hold their breath. Not Dominique himself
will move them, till the tale is told.

Eenzo paints the stormy grief of the women when
he brings them the news of the death of the patron,
as they sit under the moonlight, down by the church.
He makes a picture how some are knitting, and some
are at play, and some are singing, and some laughing.
And then comes the terrible death stroke, which turns
them into stone — and from this comes the sudden
uprising and the wild rush up to ra maigran, to the
old grey grandmother who sits by the hearth, to tell
her the bad news, and to have her weep with them.
He acts his astonishment at seeing ro mons in the
cabaret ; he cries again, " Es rome ! Es rome ! " and
whirls his arms, and hisses, and howls, and stamps his
feet : — to express the fatal effects of his " Es rome ! "
upon the afflicted women, he dilates upon their feelings,
their fatal loss, their fatal mistake, the blindness
of all sorrow, the heads that become foolish in
despair. He asks where were they to find another
patron ? Love and death, do they not drive the heart
to madness ? Lovers may deceive, but fathers never.

Was not the patron their father? What so good
under the sun as a good father ? Was he not better
than the black earth that nourishes the olive ? better
than the best net that catches the fish for the hungry ?
Must not the weak-handed ones hurry to strike down
the hand that struck their patron — that gave their
father to cold death ?

After this Kenzo comes down to prose. He says
that, quite too late, and yet in the twinkling of an eye,
he saw the way it was all going. But it was too late,
too late. How could he talk reason to the weak-handed
ones? Did not their white arms beat the air,
like flails that thrash the grain ? Was he not in great
terror ? Were not his feet taken from under him ?
What could Kenzo the boy do, but get out of the
way and leave the mons a ra Madone ?

Now, Kenzo's Madone was no ordinary madonna.
She was a madonna, not of poor peasants only, but of
the great ones of the earth ; and Renzo, every Whitsun
Feast, in company with all the devout and the un-devout
of the hills and shores, and even of the distant
cities, made his annual pilgrimage to her blessed
shrine. Many miles he walked by bare heights and
stone-ways and bleak mountains — so bleak that the
great thistle blossom refused to grow, down to the valley
of flowing waters, where stood her Sanctuary. Here,
while some slept ofi" their weariness, and some washed
their travel-sore feet, and some sought refreshment of
the soul in prayer and confession ; and some, refreshment

of the body at the wine-house hard by, Kenzo,
each year with a growing wonder, betook himself to
the arts, and wandered from picture to picture in her
gallery of miraculous interpositions, in which Renzo
and all the devout pilgrims believed and gloried, and
expected nothing less than some day to set up a
picture of their own, an ex vote for their own particular
escape and salvation.

But, unfortunately for Renzo, the boatman Dominique
must have rubbed off some of his devoutness
in the wild scenes before alluded to. He has never
made his pilgrimage, never visited the gallery ; he
makes no account of ra Madone, or of Renzo's pious
trust in her. More than once during the exciting
recital he shakes his fist, and when it is done, he calls
him a young rascal, a males give, an " ill-starred
youth." He tells him that he set the women upon
the mons, and then left him to his fate. What did
he mean by his " Es rome " ?

The boatman is not carried away by his anger.
Perhaps, at the bottom, he excuses the boy, and his
share in the fatal mistake ; perhaps he prefers to
frighten him, rather than to hurt him. He keeps his
hands off the boy, for now, he says, he has other things
to do. But tomorrow — tomorrow — and his brows
grow very black, Renzo may look out for a heavy
reckoning.

The unhappy culprit, who has just got back to his
light heart, shrinks away into the outside darkness

with a heavier one than ever ; for what are two tragedies
in the past, to a sound cudgelling in the future ? At
least, what comparison can they bear in the estimation
of our pious Kenzo ?

Misfortunes do not come singly." It is a proverb
of universal acceptance, and, it must be admitted, what
with the broken heads and broken hearts of this day, its
events afforded the strongest testimony to the reasonableness
of the saying.

Whether there was a Nemesis in the case of the
broken head, it is idle to ask. It is not good to be
ready to see the Avenger in other people's troubles ;
we may leave this to the people themselves, and to
their consciences, if they have any.

As for Lorraine himself, it may be said, positively
and once for all, that he saw no Nemesis whatever in the
mauling he had undergone ; nothing but the brutality
of human nature, and women in particular. But he
never could forget it. For him, the real tragedy of the
day was soon forgotten and wiped out, but the memory
of the finish of it — stayed steadily by him.

If you met him now, let us take it for granted,
although middle age must be creeping upon him, that
he lives and thrives — if he were candid, he would
confess to you that in the midst of a glass of Life's
brightest champagne, the thought of what he suffered
at the hands of those daughters of the South, has come
up, and sent a cold shudder through his veins.

Let him pass this fingers carelessly through his
waving locks, and the chances are that they will stand
on end with a prison, and he feels again the tugs of
those savage claws. Let him stand in the midst of a
bevy of fair dames, clustering round him, like so many
gay carnations, all radiance, colour, and perfume ; — and
up will start the companion picture, of those crowding,
screaming women-creatures, gaping upon him with
their garlic-smelling mouths, and tearing his eyes outwith
their horny, grimy fingers.

Child of Fortune as he was, the indignity was done
and suffered, and could not be undone. It was as inexorable
a fact as poor Mr. Mildew's funeral knell.

CHAPTER XVIII.

MOTHER EARTH.

Pitying Another Earth has ta'en

To her bosom once again,

This poor heart that loved in vain.

Now, ]i\^ him and grief to sleep ;
None he needs for him to weep.
Nor lamenting vigil keep.

Happy Chance to some belong,
For the race is to the strong,
Those who sec good days and long !

Mother Earth for him is lies,
To her kindly bosom prest.
Mother Earth will give him rest.

On his grave our tears fall fast.
Strife and struggle, all are past,
Say farewell — he rests at last.

If misfortunes must visit us in pairs, let us follow the
optimist, who cries, *' There is good in everything."
Let us endeavour to discover the advantage of these
double dispensations.

We should be all optimists if we were content to
view ourselves as the potter's clay we are, and from
this standpoint to accept our fortune or our misfortune.
If men are content to live at all, human reason must

i

compel them to be thankful — before everything. And
how few of the countless millions walking the earth,
having tasted of life, are not content to live on — at any
price !

Euthanasia is as much a dream as Nirvana. In
the realms of non-existence alone, wherever that maybe,
is non-existence a blessing. The human soul is Life,
therefore life, its essence, is its first desired good. But
let us not pitch our eyes too high. If the ant take the
Alp for its standard, will not discouragement be its
portion? Therefore, is the optimist the wiser man,
since at least he holds something in place of nothing —
even if that something be misfortune.

But if this misfortune be duplicated, if the two
evil things are well contrasted, and unequally weighted,
and if the heavier one strikes upon the heart and the
lighter one upon the head, then out of the two, there
comes one unmitigated good. And of this lurking
truth, the broken head and the broken heart which at
this moment fill the Villa Grimaldi with lamentations,
afford a striking illustration.

No doubt there was an all-unconscious blessing
dealt out with this double blow. Whilst Lady Laure's
blue eyes shed blinding tears over the disaster of her
lover's bleeding head, she does not perceive the kindly
veil thus raised between her and the tragedy of the
bleeding heart. And as the anxious days go on, the
blessing goes with them. Bandaged brows and close
tether to bed and couch, make a more impressive show

than the dark and unseen limits of cere-cloth and
coffin. The body's brief, self-bemoaned, articulate
durance, compels a louder sympathy — than its dumb-enduring,
dolorous extinction. The glad sight of the
hair growing again over that scarred scalp — shuts out
the sadder one of grizzled locks that can grow no
more.

But is not all this well ? and well named a blessing
? — negative, perhaps, but a greater boon than most
of our affirmative good. If the living can but live for
the living ; — if we can but bury out of mind our dead
past ; if we can accept, consciously or unconsciously,
the mortal necessity to forget, — then we shall have
possessed ourselves of the best talisman the wide world
contains, against the heart-ache.

As yet, we are at the bitter beginning of these
anxious days. The broken head is still bleeding, the
broken heart is still above the turf; disaster and
tragedy are but one day old.

The sun shines out gloriously, as if to flaunt pale
Death and Care, and the white-fronted house, with its
jalousies all tightly shut against it, looks warm and
gay and all aglow. 'Tis but outside show, 'tis but a
deception ; 'tis not to shut out the sun, but to shut in
sorrow. Inside the white-fronted house there is cold
cheer to-day; in the bright parlour there is neither

sunlight nor air, — only sable draperies, and tapers
flaring, and mute watchers, — and all that once was
Mr. Mildew.

In the red glare, the pale face looks paler than
ever; as yet unchanged, save in the strange smile
which has replaced the first stern look of death — a
smile of mute farewell and comfort. How many
bereaved hearts have been consoled by that last
strange smile ! " He looks so happy ! " sob the
weeping mourners, and they go their way, with that
smile fixed in memory, for future fortitude and resignation.


On one side of the dead stands the Earl Bellarmine,
with much personal concern in his look ; on the other,
is the Abate Faa di Bruno, grave and calm.

He is replying to the earl, in his low undertones.
"I looked for nothing else. His health has been
broken up for some time."

The earl shakes his head. "That was not my
opinion," he whispers. " To look at him there could
not have been a better life." Then he drops his voice
still more, "You don't think that he was just a little
wrong here?" and he touches his own forehead with
the top of his finger.

The priest raises his open hand, as if in the act of
blessing, and then lets it fall tenderly over the deadman's
brow, and then over his heart. "Nothing-wrong
here," — he says, " or here."

The earl stands silent, but not convinced. " I had

noticed quite recently a certain amount of prejudice
in my friend."

Ah ! " replies the abate.

Yes, a most unreasonable prejudice against our
friend, Mr. Lorraine."

Ah ! " says the priest again.

Not to be accounted for on sound grounds, you
see," continues the earl.

I am not in a position to judge," is the reply.

But I am ! " rejoins the earl, quickly. Then he
adds, " But you have relieved my mind by what you
tell me. I was half afraid — of — suicide."

The priest draws back, as if he had received a
mental shock; he lets his quiet eyes rest upon the
Englishman with something of a reproof in their fixed
look, and the dark pupils dilate, though the face
does not move a muscle. Maybe he feels that these
words in the presence of the dead were better left
unsaid.

Insanity, of course," adds the earl ; " of course,
insanity."

And yet you pray against sudden death. Do you
believe in it, my lord ? "

Well, well, of course we do ; but sudden death,
you know — we consider it suspicious."

The priest moves his eyes slowly from the face of
the living to the face of the dead. Both hands join
reverently, as if in prayer ; then the eyes are thrown
up, as if to call Heaven to witness the truth he utters :

"This man died," cries he, "because it was the will
of God that it should be so." The fine head bends
low over the corpse, the hands spread out ; he signs
the holy cross upon the brow and breast, and goes
solemnly out of the chamber of death.

The funeral is for the evening," says the earl,
catching up the abate, who is leaving the house.
The priest inclines his head. " I am surprised," says
the earl, "that the body is not to be sent to some
neighbouring town where there is a Protestant cemetery.
I would charge myself with the expenses whether
more or less."

He will be laid with us," murmurs the abate.
He was, then, one of your flock. Signer Abate ? "
He received lately the consolations of my office."
A Catholic ! Bless me ! " cries the earl, his
usual expletive breaking out with the natural use of
his voice again. " Bless me ! This comes, of course,
of living so long in these parts."

The abate compresses his lips by way of reply,
and then, with a salute in silence, they part company.

Mr. Mildew is laid to sleep far over the hills, beside
a mountain Sanctuary. Near to it are convent walls ;
a sweet, smiling spot, with vines and olive-grounds
stretching about it.

VOL. I. V

The earl and the abate, on their mules, follow as
chief mourners.

Soon the news spread how it was to be, and from
daybreak all the village was abroad, — they go along
with tears and lamentations.

Tito and Caterina, Dominique and Kenzo, all are
there.

When the last ceremony of earth to earth is over,
the earl wishes the priest good day, and travels back
alone. He is not sorry to have done with it all. He
goes along reflecting. " I am truly grieved for him,"
thinks he ; " but I wish his last words had not been so
much against poor Lorraine."

Poor Lorraine ! So let it be. Only let us add also,
Poor Mr. Mildew ! "

CHAPTER XIX.

MURDEROUS MEDITATIONS.

He takes the scroll, and he rends it twice,

And he rends it once again ;
He stirs the flame for the sacrifice,

He lets not a shred remain.

So perish the thought for ever ! " he cries ;

So perish it now and again ! "
But the angels whisper, " Thought never dies."

Never dies," sighs a soul in pain.

Says the earl to Lorraine, " I don't know how it is, —
some men seem to break up so quickly."

The earl is surveying himself complacently in the
long glass of a chiffonier — and reflecting, mentally,
upon Mr. Mildew.

Lorraine is still in the role of invalid, though little
is left of the matter save a black patch at the back of
his head. He lies stretched out, with one leg on a
chair, in a corner of the room, his eyes partially closed.
He has given way to drowsiness of late ; he finds it a
convenient method of getting through the tedium of
the indoors confinement, and the interminable length
of the talking day.

Break up soon ! " he echoes, absently. Then, bringing
his mind to bear upon it, he says, tartly, " Well,
if you get a broken head, it's apt to break you up for
the time anyhow."

My dear fellow," answers the earl, " I wasn't for a
moment thinking of you. What could make you suppose
I meant you ? " and the earl gives to his reclining
son-in-law elect, an admiring glance.

Egotism, perhaps ; " and Lorraine yawns wearily ;
the conceit being taken out of the animal by loss of
blood, — your humble people are all egotists, all thinking
of themselves, and their meritorious humility is
always fitting on caps not intended for them."

There's something very true in that," rejoins the
earl. " Have you remarked, for instance, in a church,
how some abrupt ad hominem remarks, make half the
congregation start with heads up, as one man ? "

Well, no," says Lorraine, smiling faintly, " I can't
say I have ; but then, I've not sat under many popular
preachers, as the saying is."

!Naturally, naturally," returns the earl, apologetically.
" But those who do," he continues, " can't
fail to notice it. I remember a very good story to the
point. A hare-brained young parson of my acquaintance
made a bet with his divinity coach, that in hi
first sermon he would, with his first word, rivet the
attention of all the women. He was a handsome young
fellow, by-the-by, and he won his bet, though not
altogether by his good looks. This was the text he

took : * Let your women keep silence.' The effect was
electrical ; the universal start, the turning of heads, the
severe looks of some of the bonneted faces, the conscious
eyes of others, — it would have been a very
risible affair, but for the solemnity of the occasion."

"Wasn't it risible as it was?" asks Lorraine,
languidly.

For that matter I suppose it was," answered the
earl, laughing heartily at his own lively recollections.
"By-the-by, talking of parsons," says he, when he
recovers his gravity, " didn't I see you walking to-day
with that Roman priest, Laure ? "

Lady Laure is very pale now ; it may be that the
tight-fitting black robe she wears is in too strong contrast
to her alabaster skin. She looks up from writing
a letter to her brother.

"Yes; the abate you mean, papa? He is so
kind; it is so much comfort to me to talk to him,
when I think of — of things." And she flushes, and
falls silent, turns white and red all in a moment.

Oh ! a superior man, no doubt," remarks the earl ;

and very amiable, I dare say. Don't, however "

But the earl also breaks off short. He covers his unfinished
sentence by rising hastily and throwing open a
window. " I wonder," says he, " why we have all the
windows shut to-day ! "

Don't let him make a convert of you, Laure," was
the proper finish of his speech, as it stood in his mind ;
but the earl, all caution and courtesy, caught himself

up, lest his words should convey an undesigned affront

to his Catholic son-in-law elect.

«

Lorraine also had a speech upon the tip of his
tongue, which expired before it was uttered, and it was
just this: "What! have you got another old man
already ? " — But for once he restrains his unguarded
utterance. Lorraine has made a vow never even distantly
to allude to Mr. Mildew with Lady Laure, and
he means to keep it. He wishes, for the sake of peace
and decency, to let the dead alone, and he knows that
with her, he cannot trust himself in common patience
to speak of the man who, whether directly or indirectly,
has been the cause of such a desperate punishment to
himself. As for the fate of the man himself, for the
contempt he has felt for him, for the contempt he has
expressed, he has not a pang of conscience this way —
not one pang.

I am sorry," says Lady Laure, " he is going. He
said Good-bye to-day."

His common creed with her lover made Lady
Laure very fearless about this alliance with her new
friend.

Why going away ? " asks the earl ; — " though I
am sure I'm not astonished at it ; the wonder is why he
came here at all."

He is going to London to see a brother who is ill
there ; he is in the Embassy, I think. We shall begone,"
sighs she, " before he returns."

The joy is more than gone out of her life here.

and yet Lady Laure clings to the spot more fondly
than ever.

"Oh, then, he does return? Singular thing, isn't
it," says the earl, "a man of this calibre being the cure
of such a paltry little place as this ? ''

Oh ! " cries Lady Laure. " I think that is just
the beauty of his life."

I can't agree with you, my dear Laure. That's pure
romance. Any ignorant seminaries would do for this
village. This man's place is elsewhere; he is quite
fitted to be an ornament to society, and, since he has
chosen it, to be an ornament to his Church. You don't
need the red bit of ribbon in his button-hole to tell
you that the man's rank is on a par with his manners,
with his refined and courtly address, and cultivation
altogether. He is absolutely thrown away here — a
pearl cast to swine."

Oh papa ! " says Lady Laure, deprecating, not
the simile of the pearl, but of the swine. Then she adds,
It was the abate's choice to come here."

A grand mistake, I call it," says the earl ; " and
you see, he doesn't make anything of the people. One
of themselves would have more weight with them ; they
are nothing really but a set of savages ; " and he looks
compassionately at Lorraine.

Lorraine frowns under the compassionate glance.
If, once for all, they would have done with their commiseration
and their condemnation! All he wants is
to get over it in peace, and forget it, if possible.

They didn't mean it," murmurs Lady Laure.

Lorraine's ears, in his distant corner, are sharp
enough to catch this " didn't mean it." And his eyes
wake up with his ears ; they positively flash fire across
the room. He cares nothing for pity for his brutal
assault; but, exculpation for the savages, and from
that quarter, too ! Come, that's too bad. He vows an
indefinite vengeance some day and upon some one.
But he's not going to keep up the odious subject now,
or to make a fool of himself at this moment, and to
show his disgust.

He turns his eyes away and takes up a book. But
he is not really reading ; behind the open pages he is
resenting Lady Laure's exculpation of the " savages "
resenting it on every count, for the sympathy it
gives, more than for the sympathy it withholds ; resenting
it, because, after all, Mr. Mildew has beaten him
out of the field, and the broken heart triumphs in its
ashes.

This *' didn't mean it " was as unfortunate as it
was artless, candid, and generous. It was a part of
Lady Laure's nature, and a part of her fate. It was
a part of Lorraine's fate, too. There was nothing very
breakable about his heart ; but if it couldn't break it
could harden, and one way or another it did harden.

Vindictive ! Yes ; Lorraine may have been vindictive
and unforgiving, too, when sufficiently roused and
touched on the right chord. His happy indolence
interfered with the full swing of these qualities; for

their indulgence costs trouble, and ruffles placid enjoyments.
But of these and other qualities it would
be curious to inquire how much comes of ourselves ;
how much is innate, indigenous, and our spontaneous
production ; and for how much we should travel back,
crab fashion, in order to find the responsible unit — that
is to say, the responsible ghost, which may not be a unit
but a unification. Yet, though impalpable, spectral,
diffuse, and disintegrated, has it not a right to answer
for the consequences of itself? Whether it was that
Iberian hidalgo, or that Hibernian progenitor — it is
too far back to be precise — yet it is ten to one that
Lorraine has to thank one or both for a stood deal that
is in him, and had better have been out of him.

This shadowy excuse — and shadowy it is in every
sense of the word — is the more allowable, since the
man had none of the vices that go along with these
passions. The earl took him to be a good-hearted,
well-living young fellow; and so did a good many
other people ; and, on the whole, you would not have
called Lorraine a hypocrite.

*•' During his absence," says the earl, who is always
of an inquisitive turn about commonplace matters,
"do you know, Laure, who the abate is going to
entrust his precious flock to ? or is he going to leave
his sheep, black and white, without a shepherd ? "

That fat little Don Giobbe, whom you often see
about. Every one calls him Don Giobbe ; I don't know
why," says she. " He is to be here for Mass. He has a
little chapel over the hills. It is a delicious little spot,
full of flowers and thyme, and honey and bees. He hasa
little house there of three rooms, with such curious
furniture in it, and a large garden which he is always
working in. I believe he sells the vegetables about
here, and brings them himself. You know him by
sight, papa."

Bless me, Laure," cries the earl, " what an extensive
acquaintance you have in the neighbourhood,
especially in certain quarters ! " The earl could scarcely
conceal his fidgettiness about his daughter's Catholic
proclivities. " I believe I know the man by sight, but
nothing more."

I know him," says Lorraine, throwing his book
on one side, and not sorry to get away from his unpleasant
feelings. "He's a very good little fellow,
and has often invited me to visit his ' delicious spot ; '
but I believe it is an immense way off. He's a little
grise, as they say, and when you make him laugh, he
gives you Benediction, pointing his fingers in the most
original way. But he's a jolly little man, all the same.
He's the sort of priest I like to see ; no artfulness about
him."

Lorraine's appreciation of priests at this moment
was a good deal more ruled by his distaste for the
abate, than for his taste for the rural Don Giobbe.

That's so far true," returns the earl. " Now, the
abate might be a Machiavelli — is probably a Jesuit.
The one man seems to be a buffoon ; the other wears a
mask."

I won't grant that," says Lorraine. "Don Gibbet
kind-hearted creature, but he's no fool."

Lady Laure could also have said, *' I won't grant
that," in the interests of her friend the abate. But
both her nature, and the force of habit induced her
always to retire before a serious argument. And she
went back in silence to the letter to her brother.
Here was the sympathy of a love without fear. Here
she could pour out her whole heart. Here she found
the companionship of the warmest fellow-feeling, the
comfort of an insisting allowance, the safety of the
tenderest construction.

Into the life about her had come a loneliness to
which she gave no name ; yet its shadows were more
real by a great way, than the fancied light shed by
her lover's presence. Wider and wider became the
unconscious gulf between her gentle common sense,
and his strong commonplace. If he had been as
stoical as he was insouciant, if she had been as romantic
as she was devoted, there would have been less jeopardy
in their relations.

The situation was sad and repressive. Full of the
deepest love and the deepest concern for him, day by
day she feared more and more to show him her
thoughts, for now he laughed and now he frowned at

them — and one grievous matter was forbidden ground
altogether. With her father as well, — all indulgent ashe
was, all dutiful as she was, there existed the inevitable
reservations that could not fail to arise between
her age, her sex, and her character, and the middle-aged,
something shallow, something conventional, easygoing
man of the world, whose wealthy and unbarred
life, for the last ten years, had allowed of the expansion
of these characteristics, to the detriment, perhaps, of
the bonhomie which was the other side of his qualities.

Still, there was one heart left to throw herself upon
not, indeed, in a rebound on to some new affection, butin
the rational and confiding trust of a brother's love.
It would be hard to say what a chasm this love now
bridged over in her own heart. It might have been
better away ; without it, she might sooner have learnt
the truth she had to learn. But as it was, in this at any
rate, she for the present was happy, and felt safe. In
this at least, she risked no chance of a sneer or a frown
at her lover's hands — for this long-lost, long-parted
Lucie stood first with Lorraine ; he would not have
denied it, — first — before herself, before all others !

In the late anxious, wearing days, in the shock of
the mischance, of the broken heart, and the mishap
of the broken head, — in all this sad and strange and
grievous trial. Lady Laure's daily consolation came
from her brother. She filled pages to him, and he
wrote pages in return — pages of the deepest sympathy.
He entered into it all, but chiefly into the tragedy of

the broken heart; he pictured the quiet heroism of
the man's life, culminating in the revulsion of the
final catastrophe ; he dwelt upon the mysterious sadness,
so often the unread forerunner of sudden death ;
he saw some strange affinity in her being belated
beneath those gloomy rocks ; he marked the hand of
Fate that led up to the wild scene in the cabaret. He
had not the master-key to the piece, but he read the
events backwards, and traced the steps between them.
His meaning went deeper than his words ; the words
might be hard sayings, — flights, perhaps, of the poet
and the mystic, but the loving intention flowed out
full and free with them, set her tears falling first, —
and dried them afterwards.

As for the earl, he kept up with himself in these
events, which might have discouraged a less equable
person. He took great credit to himself for the way
he bore it all. " These melancholy matters pressed so
much upon him," as he said. " He was the responsible
head, of course, but, though personally so implicated
in it all, it wouldn't do for him to give way." And he
didn't give way. He kept to his fixed habits and
fixed hours, and took his constitutional exercise with
the regularity of clockwork. " If you don't study your
health," as he often remarked, " in these kind of
places, what's the use of them at all ? "

Stepping out of his room between eight and nine
the morning after this conversation upon the spiritual
pastors of the neighbourhood, he was agreeably surprised
at meeting Lorraine, equipped, like himself, fora
morning walk.

Bless me ! " he cries. " This is a good sight. I
hope you slept better. Feel more like yourself this
morning, eh ? "

I believe I've been well enough for the last week,"
says Lorraine ; " only one gets such a confounded habit
of laziness."

Ah ! quite right ! Habit, you know, is second
nature ; but I like your resolution ; you're not going
to let it get the better of you." The earl was ever
ready with a word of praise for his model young man.

For the space of a quarter of an hour, the two
walked up and down the earl's bit of quarter-deck on
the road below the villa. Lorraine was preoccupied.
At last he said —

Mr. Mildew's goods are not removed yet ? "

"No, not dispersed at present; poor fellow, poor
fellow ! It seems so hard, — all his pet gimcracks tossed
very likely into the dung-heap. However, all is as it
was, up to now. The arrival of a cousin is daily expected.
I suppose the house will be cleared then."

Ah ! " says Lorraine, and relapses into his abstraction.


Two hours later, Lorraine is sitting beside Lady
Laure, playing idly with the tiny implements of her

worktable ; when, in its turn, he lays his hand on a
mother-of-pearl penknife. He opens and shuts it, shuts
it and opens it, fidgeting with it heedlessly, till of a
sudden he stops still ; he looks at the blade, feels its
edge, knits his brows, gets up, prepares for a move.
*'Laure," says he, holding the penknife half-way out
of his waistcoat pocket, "lend me this little weapon,
will you, for half an hour ? "

For a whole hour if you like, Claude, but not for
altogether. It's ill luck, you know, to give penknives."

Cuts love, you think ? " says he.

"I am not afraid of that," she answers quickly,
turning her blue eyes upon him.

Why not ? Fear is for self-defence — a valuable
quality for the weaker ones. You should always be
afraid, my dear Laure."

Not of you ? " says she.

Yes, of me, before all things ! "

Of you before all things ! " she echoes.

Yes ; because, one way or another, you have
made it possible, you see, for me to do you a peck of
harm."

Lady Laure's blue eyes dilate more and more.

'• If I were nothing to you, and you nothing to me,
whatever we did, we shouldn't upset each other."

You shall not have the knife," says she, playfully,
taking possession of it; "it's having a bad effect
already."

Come, give it to me, Laure." There's nothing of

a jest in his tone, but much the reverse. When he has
regained possession of the " small weapon," as he calls
it, he looks grimly at it, and says, " If I do a deed of
murder with it, I'll wipe off the blood stains, fair lady,
before I give it back to you."

Ah ! you make me shudder ! " whispers Lady
Laure ; and she draws herself together, as the thrill of
nervousness runs through her.

I forgot your nerves, poor child ! " His voice is
kind; his banter has lost some of its pitiless ring
when the old grudges are out of sight. " With the
loss of blood, perhaps," as he said on a former occasion ;
but not altogether. Due, in part at least, to a more
gracious cause — to simple gratitude.

It flattered his feelings as much as soothed them,
Lady Laure's persistent seriousness, in her sympathy
with his misfortunes. The only side of the matter for
her, was still the tragic side. It was as earnest ah affair
for her as for him, and this struck upon the right chord,
and brought them together in a manner that he could
well appreciate. Now, other people — the two doctors
who came from the right and the left, the two Maires
who had called to express their regrets and to make
inquiries from time to time, the servants, and even the
earl, as the broken head began to heal — began simultaneously
to show a lurking smile at the corners of the
lips when the subject came up. These outward signs
of the ludicrous, in their unfeeling minds, made Lorraine
wince, and anathematize the whole lot of them in his

heart. It tried his temper, too ; and Lady Laure had
to bear the brunt of it. Yet when she shivers at his
speech, it brings her tender sympathy with his broken
head, full in his eye, and he cries with sincerity —

I forgot your nerves, poor child ! " and adds
consolingly, " Never fear ; my murders are bloodless
ones ! " And so he drops the subject of nerves and
murders ; — but he pockets the penknife.

Presently he says he shall take a stroll. The walk
may do him good. He feels better, he thinks, forgoing
out before breakfast. He goes into his reasons ;
but he does not ask Lady Laure to go with him.

Lorraine dawdles into the garden and down between
the myrtle hedges with the air of an idle man who
has nothing to do. At the gate he stops and leans
against the post. There is an exquisite view from this
point: the fir-crowned cape, and the city-crowned
rock, and the craggy ridge that juts, island-like, into
the waves. The air is so clear that you can see their
tiny crests rippling in the pierced crags. There is
the lovely sweep of the shore and the lovely curve
of the hills, and right up above is the human eagle's
nest, hanging over his head. Lorraine's back is this
way. The bare sight of the eagle's nest fills his soul
with disgust and hatred. He is not much of a bird's
mester; but, if he had his way, he would pull that
eyre down over its ears. He stands vaguely scanning
the sea, and leaning upon his stick, as Mr. Mildew had
done by this selfsame gate but a short moon ago, just

VOL. I. X

when his tragedy was brewing. Lorraine looks as if
he were brewing mischief, too. His features belie his
air of unconcern ; his brows knit more than ever ; the
cruel look comes over his mouth ; he fingers the
penknife, and looks furtively over his shoulder back at
the house.

The windows are blank of faces. There is no
sound, no motion, only the hum of the bees, the dip
of the swallow, the wave of the light breeze in the
bushes.

If you had watched him, you would not doubt but
that he meditated scene secret thing or other; — nor
would it take you by surprise to see him give, once
and again, a hurried glance at the house, and then,
with a sudden start, pass through the gate, and cut
into the orange grove.

Not long after, Lorraine might have been seen
dropping leisurely down the road, with the white
house shining full before him. It is poor, crawling
work at the best. Lorraine has not played the role
of invalid in vain; he realizes all the weakness of
returning convalescence. There is no striding step
to-day ; he stops from time to time to rest his exhausted
body.

Another month like the last," thinks he, " and I
should be as dead as he ; " and he points his stick at
the white house, with its never-changing smile.

Now he stands before it. Upon his face is the
expression of an unconquerable aversion ; yet he pushes

open the gate, goes through the oleander avenue, up to
the door, and pulls the bell with a ring of desperation.

The door glides open by a few inches, not wide
enough to admit the comer, but sufficient to discover
a new face within — a respectable man in shabby black,
with a crumpled shirt and a sallow face, and who
speaks good French. He intimates that he is in
charge, and that the Italian servants are gone back to
their country.

Lorraine offers up a sigh of thanksgiving in the
intention of the comely Caterina. Amongst the terrors
of this visit, her face was one of the foremost. He
takes more courage, and gives his card, with the words,
I come from the Villa Grimaldi. Can I go into the
parlour ? "

The card is inspected, turned up and down. To this
follows the personal survey, — equally scrutinizing.

Monsieur is a friend to the monsieur qui vient de
mourir ? "

Friend ! That means Mr. Mildew's friend.

It is all right," says Lorraine, in English, and,
brushing past the man, he crosses the little vestibule,
goes up the short flight of steps, and lays his hand
upon the parlour door ; but he tightens his lips and
holds his breath. He is weak; he changes colour,
before this closed door. But whatever he has got todo,
it must be done, and there's no time for delay.

Once within the room, he feels stifled. All his
sensations in that damp cavern come over him again,

till the very moisture stands upon his brow. The
windows are shut, the jalousies are closed, the blinds
are down ; already the mouldy feeling of the untenanted
chamber, has infected this snug sun parlour.

Lorraine gropes his way to a window, pushes away
the blind, throws it open, dashes back the jalousies,
and, leaning his head out, gasps for fresh air. He
allows himself little time for recovery. Before a
minute has gone past, he is again at the door ; shuts
it with a slam in the face of the man in black, who is
peering in ; and slides a bolt. He searches round the
room, upon the desk, upon the tables, tossing one
thing over another; but in vain. His search is not
over. He goes to work again, shaking the glass cases
at the risk of shattering glass and locks.

Angry and foiled, he throws himself down upon the
nearest chair. But he is quickly up again. With an
impatient kick, he sends the encumbrances upon the
cushion flying — a coat one way, a book another. The
book falls to pieces, back and leaves part company,
and the floor is scattered with the loose sheets. It
is the black manuscript book ; he has wreaked full
vengeance upon it at last! It is a mournful sight;
but Lorraine feels no remorse.

Now for it," he mutters.

His hands tremble with eager haste ; he seizes up
the leaves, and looks them over and over. He stops,
and then, with a vengeful glisten in his eyes, he takes
the half-dozen he holds in his hand, and, bringing out

Lady Laure's small bright blade, he cuts away the
other sheets, which fall fluttering to the ground.

Lorraine stands with the few jagged pages held
out under his eyes. It is done at last, this bloodless
murder that sent the shiver through Lady Laure's
veins. All through these late chafing, dragging weeks
Lorraine has meditated the murderous deed. He holds
this deed to be a simple duty : duty to the woman he
is to call wife ; duty to himself — yes, quite as much to
himself as to anybody else. Other people's eyes maybe
as clear-sighted as his own were; but that contingency
is safely provided against !

Yet — could dead eyes weep, what tears would not
be flowing ! But dry as the desert are Lorraine's eyes,
unmoved as the rock, is his heart. Pity ! he would
laugh to scorn the notion of pity. The man is dead
and buried, — and so let his folly be.

So let it be ; but still, Lorraine is standing with the
corpse he has slain — in his hand, and all about him.

He hears the handle of the door turned. Heavens !
how to get rid of these dead men's tales ! He glares
at the hearth and at the window. JSTo good there.
Now the door is thumped imperiously. The time
is up ; he crams the leaves he holds into his breast,
scrambles up the broken backs and the rest, and forces
them under the chair cushion.

Entrez ! " he cries ; and, stalking to the door,
unbars it, and comes straight upon the sallow face of
the man in black.

Que faites vous done ? " says the man, dropping
all convenances.

"Bon jour," says Lorraine; and, elbowing his
broad shoulders past the sallow face, he is gone.

He turns sharp up the ravine by the familiar path,
and then into the brushwood. He must find some
hole, some dark spot, in which to hide his murderous
burden. He reaches the euphorbia grove. Peasant
voices are singing. He hides in pure fear of his life.
What if he were to get a second clawing ! The voices
come nearer. They are crossing the grove above him.

What poor creatures are the strongest of us !
Fear knows how to take us — knows our weak side.
With one it is a shadow in the dark ; with another,
a giddy precipice ; with another, some creeping insect,
some unconquerable antipathy ; and then — we halt, as
Lorraine is doing, his face as white as Mr. Mildew's
in his bier.

The peasant voices sound no notes of assault.
Mournfully melodious, with a sweet rise and fall, you
might weep to hear them ; but not from fear. It was
the ronda of " Bela Sabe " that they were singing.

Oh ! Sabe, bela Sabe,
To my wedding come, I pray."
At your wedding I'll not be ;
But the dance I mean to see."
If the dance you join to-night,
Come attired all in white."

In a robe of charming hue,

The Bela soon is drest ;
And if 'tis good the blue,

For Hope the green is best

At the first note of the tambour,

The Bela joins the ball ;
At the next note of the tambour,

In death they see her fall.

Oh ! Sabe, bela Sabe,
Do you die by force ? Ah! say ! "
Not by force in death I lie ;
'Tis for love of you I die."
If for love of me you die ;
For your love, so will I ! "
Then out his knife he drew,
And his heart he ran it through.

Before one verse is over, the next is taken up, and
again the third comes into the ronda, and again the
first begins. It is only an harmonious monotony,
infinitely sad and sweet, with " Sabe, bela Sabe "
sounding plaintively through it, like the soft tolling
of a bell.

The singers of this invisible band are men and
women, youths and young girls, and small children ;
they are vine-workers, twenty or thirty of them,
coming down from the vine slopes over the hills.
They sing as they go. Their voices mingle without
method or intention — now two, now four, or more, in
unison together; they catch up the song from each
other as they pass, and drop it as they will. Singing
through the wood, to the tramp of their unseen feet —
some here, some there — the effect is magical.

The tramp, tramp, and the sweet chant are dying
away on the wind, which sweeps with a hush through
the leaves, and Lorraine, with the colour back in his
face, is leaning against the trunk of a tree.

Angels, or devils, or both ! " says he. " Never
did diviner sounds fall upon human ears."

But then Lorraine has a passionate liking for the
simple songs of simple singers ; and now he would have
given a round sum for an encore from this invisible
troupe on their greenwood stage, provided they kept
to the invisible. But whether angels or devils, he was
not at all more ready than before, to meet them face
to face.

I must go back again," says he, half aloud. " I
believe I'm a fool ; but all the same, I wouldn't meet
the lot for fifty pounds."

He begins retracing his steps as fast as he can.
He chooses where the brushwood is thickest; he
tramples through the wild myrtle bushes and rosemaries
mercilessly. It is hard work, and he is horribly tired.
At last he has the comfort to find himself upon the
open road again, with the white house well in the rear.
Now he goes leisurely forward, allowing himself time
to breathe. But with the next turn his tranquil mind
is again upset. He espies the black figure of a man
on before ; he takes sight of him ; it settles his
suspicions. He mutters to himself —

There's that sallow-faced scoundrel on ahead ; I
must get out of his way, too. What a den of thieves
the place is ! One's dogged right and left."

So he gives up the road, and drops down to the
shore. He is intensely weary; the worry of the
morning, and the burning noonday sun, after his role

of invalid, have been too much for him. But here is
rest at last! Down here, under the sheltering cliff,
there is refreshment and retirement, peace and quiet.
The sea runs round and about the broken rocks,
making the shore into a small, stony archipelago.

Lorraine picks his way to where the cliff overhangs
most, and the water and rocks are deep and broad ;
and here, amidst the drowsy lap of the murmuring
waves, he stretches himself down, and falls into a
doze.

A half-dream holds him chained. It comes half of
fancy, half of reality, as dreams are wont to do. He
is down under the sea, with Lady Laure and Mr.
Mildew. Everything is smiling and sparkling about
him. Mr. Mildew looks as young as Lady Laure ; but
this arouses no angry grudge. Stormy hate is changed
into the calm of Good Will. Suddenly, the ronda of
^* Bela Sabe " sounds in his ears, but inexpressibly sadder
and sweeter. Lady Laure melts into tears, Mr. Mildew
melts into air, Lorraine stretches out his hand to hold
him, and with the effort he awakes.

He is sitting upright upon the slab of rock; the
earl is calling him from the shore ; and Mr. Mildew, in
the shape of the tattered leaves of the black manuscript
book, is floating away upon the blue waves, past
recall.

How did these poor fragments of a bleeding heart
loose themselves from the stony prison of Lorraine's

breast ? Perchance some kind angel, passing by,
touched with pity, set them free !

"Who'd have thought to find you down here
amongst the mermaids ? " says the earl, smiling, when
Lorraine joins him under the cliff, having managed to
bring himself and his senses back into the world of real
things.

"I've been on the look out for you," adds the
earl. "There's been a fellow up at the villa, in a
black coat ; he's the locum tenens down at Mildew's
house. He came, he said, to bring the tall English
monsieur to justice ! " Then the earl laughed heartily.
The man is ready to swear that you, this very morning,
made a raid upon valuables — amount unknown —
under his charge. Of course, I assured him that he
was altogether in error ; that he had mistaken you for
some one else ; and that, to the best of my belief, you
had not been near the house since the day of the
unfortunate catastrophe. But it was all to no purpose ;
he was as unbelieving as a Jew ! I was obliged to call
Burton to get him away, and he went off sacre-king as
only a Frenchman can. The odd part of it was, that
he described your face, figure, hair, eyes, as if you had
sat to him for your portrait ! "

Lorraine is flushing all over crimson. The pure
guiltiness of his conscience keeps him dumb during

the earl's account. If he was to be hung the next
moment for it, he couldn't help this confusion of face.

Yes, I've been down there to-day," he stammers
out. " I wanted to look at a book."

The earl gives him a glance of immense approbation.
" Kind of you," he says. " I see how it was ;
you wanted to take a last look at the poor fellow's
household gods, before they're broken up. My dear
Lorraine," cries the earl, "you're the most feeling-hearted
man I know."

Lorraine, once alone, lets his rage burst out.
Murderer and thief ! half killed, and nearly sent to
the galleys ! Come, that's quite enough to owe to a
musty old villain, that's not so much to me as the
dirt under my feet."

Chapter XX.

MEN ANT) ANGELS.

*' Fair angel, coming from the upper sky.

Scorn not a lonely mortal's earth-bon song !
Above the clouds, poor heart ! he cannot fly ;

Only the things of earth to him belong.
He calls thy snowy brow the jessamine ;

He calls thine eyes the fountain's crystal light ;
He calls thy smile the sea 'neath moonlight sheen ;

He calls thy voice the murmur of the night.
Poor heart ! he cannot rise to heights with thee ;

He breaks his wings against the golden bars ;
For thou hast learnt the heaven-taught melody,

Of sun and moon, and of the crowned stars.
Fair angel, coming from the upper sky.

Pity a low-bon mortal's fluttering sigh ! "

Tuscan BUpetto.

^* Laure, my love," says the earl, " do you know if
Burton is back with the letters ? "

*• There he is," says Lady Laure, nodding to the
window.

"* Ah ! that's all right. I am extremely anxious to
know how the elections have gone, especially our own,
-as you may suppose."

Whereupon Burton walks into the room with his
hands full of all manner of news. The earl puts aside
his letters, and shoes at once to the Times.

\

"You cannot estimate, Laiire, the misfortune it
would be if we lost it;" and he fixes his eye-glass
upon his nose and prepares to read his fate.

Lady Laure is already engrossed deep in her
own correspondent ; but answers dutifully, " Yes,
papa."

Anxiously rummaging the sheets, the earl finds
what he wants, and all he wants. He throws the
paper down with a triumphant wave.

"Rejoice with me, my dear! Aboyne is returned
with flying colours."

I am so glad for you, papa ; " but the tears stand
in Lady Laure's eyes, and her voice fails.

The earl is too proud of his victory to notice his
daughter's emotion.

"God bless me! What's this?" The ear i&
staring in blank amazement at a letter he has just
begun to read. His look of triumph is dashed with
dismay. " Grot bless me I " he cries again. He pushes
his hair back, rubs his eyes and his glasses ; he clearly
misdoubt the evidence of his senses.

At this moment, Lorraine comes quickly into the
room, with a black-edged document open in his hand.

'* He's dead," says he.

^ He's thrown it up ! " cries the earL

•• He's going to America," sobs Lady Laure.

Who's dead now ? " asks the earl, querulously,
entirely off his balance.

Only Sir Loftus Lorraine," answers his nephew
and heir, in an indifferent tone.

Come, — whatever has gone wrong, here is a piece of
good news for the earl. It brings him a little round at
once. " Bless me ! is it possible ? How every one
seems to be dying ! Dead ! Your uncle dead at last !
But could you credit it, Lorraine? — that misguided
fellow Aboyne, after gaining his election with the
most unqualified success, goes the very next hour and
throws it up."

Oh, papa ! " moans Lady Laure, " what is that to
Lucie's going to America ? "

America ! " exclaims the earl. " Why, all the
world's gone mad ! What in the name of commonsense
takes him to America ? "

He says he can't breathe in Europe ; " and Lady
Laure sighs pathetically.

Good Heavens ! '* cries Lorraine. " Is he so far
gone as that? You never told me his lungs were
weak."

Poor, unfortunate fellow ! " sighs the earl, in his
turn. " If he were only right, none of this imbroglio
need have happened."

"But America can't be the best place for him,"
says Lorraine.

I should think not," jerks out the earl, angrily.

The changes of the temperature are tremendous
there. I'll go and bring him down here tomorrow;
this is the air for him." Lorraine looks in good
earnest this time.

Oh, it's not his lungs ; it's not his lungs, Claude,"
says Lady Laure, wiping her eyes.

No," says the earl, with a frown, " it's much worse
than that. It's the canker of revolution and red
night-caps. It's Lucie's crack-brained republicanism
which is at the bottom of all this mischief. If he
had not taken up with these destructive principles, he
might have come in himself, without contest or expense
; and now, through his sheer folly, we have to
contend with Aboyne's idiotic conduct, and all this
disappointment — disgrace, I may say ! " he adds,
emphatically.

That's all, is it ? " says Lorraine, coolly.

Silence ensues.

Lorraine drums with his fingers on the nearest table.

Lady Laure goes back to the study of the red
republican's letter.

The earl sits with his eyes on the floor. But,
after all, the cud he chews has sweet as well as bitter
fancies. Lucie's red flag, Aboyne's white feather, it
was all very bad! But still, there was Lorraine's
family escutcheon to throw the scale up again.

It was no small turn in Fortune's wheel, the title
and inheritance which Lorraine this day had come into.

So the earl lifts his eyes, looks across to the
master of Loughmore, and says, in his ordinary cordial
voice, " Well, well, we have to do the best we can in a
bad business ; there's nothing else for it. Meantime,
my dear Lorraine, I have been very remiss in not

offering you at once, my sincere congratulations, on
your accession to your uncle's noble property'*

Thank you," says Lorraine ; " but I can't say I
feel particularly rejoiced at it myself. Sir Loftus
would have obliged me much more just now, by
continuing to live."

Of course, of course, property and position have
their duties." Then, as if he had no remarkable
interest in the question, the earl goes on to say, "By-the-by,
you'll be thinking of Parliament for yourself now."

"Not if I know myself," says Lorraine, with a
decisive smile. "No; I'm no Parliament man, and
never shall be. I should neither know how to speak,
nor when to be silent. I pity the poor party," he
says, laughing, " that catches me."

The earl subsides again.

Here is another disappointment. He puckers up
his forehead and says, plaintively, " Dear, dear me !
what difficulties we are drifted into, all at once ! Now,
who would have thought of all this twelve hours ago ? "

Let us take a look into the letter that has so upset
the Earl of Bellarmine's equable temper, and prosperous
programme of county politics.

"My teak Lord,

I fear this letter will not reach you before
the English papers of yesterday's date, in which you

will learn the success of my election. I wish it were
in my power to leave things as they are, and I wish
also I could profit by the splendid chance of doing
credit to your generous support ; but I have no choice.
You have long known where my affections are unalterably
fixed, and you may, therefore, judge of the
blow it is to me, this morning, to receive from Lord
Lucie the announcement of his sister's engagement to
Mr. Lorraine. Lord Lucie's letter leaves no room for
doubt, or for hope ; and I feel that for myself at
present there is but one course, and that is to quit the
country till I can return to it in a calmer state of
mind. — Feeling, as I do now, I could neither do justice
to you, to myself, or to my constituents. I think
nothing of this check to my ambition ; it is little, indeed,
compared to that other check to all my hopes
and affections. To you, personally, I know not what
to say. I feel I am making a miserable return for
more than fatherly friendship. Nor can I make my
shortcomings the less by anything 1 can say to excuse
them. All I can hope, as to the political embarrassment
I am creating, is, that good will come out of the
evil; and that you will end by finding a worthier
candidate than I should have proved at the best.
Farewell, my dear lord. May Heaven bless you and

yours !

Yours always truly,

"Arthur Aboyne."
No doubt, such a letter from the winning candidate

VOL. I-f- Y

322 PRINCE FORTUNE AND PRINCE FATAL.

of a contested election, to the party leader in the
county, was a crushing discouragement; and, but for
the timely death of Sir Loftus Lorraine, the effect of
it upon the earl might have been serious. With no
rebound, and just at the grand climacteric, it might
have fallen upon his health, and broken him up quick,
much after the fashion of his friend Mildew, which he
had lately, so curiously speculated upon. But the earl
would have told you that he was born under a luckier
star than friend Mildew ; and at the present moment,
Lady' Laure's bright certainties might be quoted as a
proof of the truth of this presumption.

Lady Laure also has found some cheer in the midst
of her trouble. She looks up with vivacity to her
father.

"It's not so bad as I thought, papa," says she.
Imagine ! Lucie, in the end of his last scrap), says
that he is not writing from Paris, but from some place
very near here, and that he expects to be here as soon
as his letter. Imagine ! " cries Lady Laure again.
How delightful ! I thought, you know, he was going
straight off. He says he shall take a passage in some
French ship. Will that be safe ? "

French ships ! French fiddlestick ! " grumbles
the earl, beginning to fume again. "The rubbish
Lucie gets into his head one way or another, and all
through his crazy theories, is enough to drive a sane
man wild to hear of! And yet the boy is far from a
lunatic ; that would be some excuser



r

Though it would scarcely improve the case," says
Lorraine, smiling sarcastically. '* However, we'll bless
the theory, whatever it may be, that brings him this
way. Upon my word, I believe you this time, Laure,
that he really is coming ! "

Coming — really coming ! " and Lady Laure nods
her head with each " coming " in a rapturous way.

But the earl looks as if he were still settling the
affairs of the nation, or some other affairs equally
momentous.

Did you say he was coming to-day, Laure ? " he
asks.

He said he should arrive as soon as his letter."

Ah ! ahem ! Well, you've got the letter, haven't

you?"

"Quite safe," smiles Lady Laure, carrying it to
her lips.

It strikes me," says the earl, " in that case — I
mean, since Lucie comes at once — that I had better start
for England to-night. It is of vital importance that
I should be on the spot to change, if possible, Aboyne's
unreasonable determination. It's no use writing letters
about these things. Just see his letter. What good

has that done ? " The earl's logic is a little at fault ;

but he must be excused — the circumstances are so
trying. " If everything I can say fails, well, then, I
must lose not a moment in finding some safe man to
put in his place. You see, these things can't be done
in a hurry ; and yet there's not an hour to be spared !

Just see what a strait we're brought to, and all through
the folly — I was going to say of a couple of wrongheaded
young men! — for, upon my word, Aboyne is
quite as extravagant in his way as Lucie is in his.
However, to do Lucie justice, he is turning up just in
the nick of time ; for I can leave him here, Laure, to
take care of you in my stead, and you can follow me
to England by easy stages, under his escort and
Lorraine's, — unless indeed, Lorraine thinks he had
better start with me and go on to Loughmore." The
earl is for settling everybody's business all round.

"I am in no hurry," says Lorraine, with a little
shrug.

Now, Lady Laure finds a good deal of this beyond
her comprehension. "But you forget, papa, that
Lucie is going to America in a French ship ; so he
won't go back to England."

Psha ! my dear," says the earl. " Lucie is coming
here to-night or tomorrow; I believe that's the last
programme. What's he got to do in America?
Who expects him there ? But what he has got to do
here is quite another thing. He has got to take care
of you, and bring you home to me. Do you understand
? What I have arranged is plain to the meanest
comprehension. I shall leave a letter for him ; and,
as I said before, you can all travel homewards at your
leisure. But remember, Laure, if Lucie takes to this
place, as he's very likely to do when he's once in it,
encourage him in his fancy, — remain here a week or

more longer ; and so, God knows ! we may get this last
craze — this American lunacy— out of his brain. As
for myself, I don't see that I can do better than start
this afternoon."

As the earl said, his arrangement for the whole
party, was plain to the meanest comprehension. It
wasn't for Lorraine to object ; and yet he did object,
once for all, — from the moment the arrangement was
made, down to the moment it came to an end.

Lady Laure, too, looks grave. She has not the
gift of overruling people, but she has an intuitive
sense of what is wise and best. " Then, pray take
Burton, papa. We don't want him. I don't like your
travelling alone." She is thinking not only of herself;
an indefinite anxiety about her father fills her mind.

"Without an escort, eh? — I can't be trusted. Is
that it, Laure ? " The earl is getting up his spirits.
The notion of taking immediate action in his dilemma
is so much easier a trial, than sitting down passively
to bear it.

He takes out his watch. " There is not much time,
I see; and I have to write to Lucie. I think I
had better go and do it at once, and make my preparations."


He rings the bell. " I want you in my room.
Burton. I am going to England this afternoon, and
you will have to go down to the town and see about
a carriage and horses."

Burton is too well trained to show a shadow of

surprise. He opens his eyes a trifle wider, and follows
his master in silence. Once shut in together, and out
of the hearing of the rest of the world, Burton allows
himself to remark, " that, of course, he can be ready in
an hour; but that he doesn't see how Mrs. Jenkins
can move my lady and herself at such short notice."

The earl ignores Mrs. Jenkins. " Lady Laure," he
says, " remains here for the present. Lord Lucie will
arrive in a few hours ; she will then return to England
with him and Sir Claude Lorraine."

Burton's stoicism is quite upset. He opens his
eyes at the widest [stretch, and coughs alarmingly.
Burton's cough is articulate speech. The earl perfectly
understands its language, and replies at once —

"Yes, the black-bordered letter you brought just
now, announced the death of Sir Loftus Lorraine."

The earl's travelling preparations appear to Burton
interminable, bursting, as he is, with the grand news he
has got for Mrs. Jenkins's ear. At last he suggests,
that, if my lord really wishes for horses to-day, considering
the difficulties of getting any, that he had
better perhaps see about it directly."

To be sure, to be sure. Bless me ! Why didn't
you say so before? Didn't you understand me that
to-day I must start ? You ought to have gone straight
down, before you began to put up the things."

Thus Burton gets his release ; but he does not go
straight down — not, at least, down to the town. Before
he turns his steps that way, he seeks out Mrs. Jenkins.

We shall have our wedding at last, Mrs. Jenkins,"
says he, rubbing his hands.

Mrs. Jenkins bridles up, and smirks with a " None
of your nonsense now, Mr. Burton."

Burton is so swallowed up by the great things in
his mind, that he does not remark Mrs. Jenkins's
conscious appropriation of these nuptial possibilities.

Yes ; we've got our baronet in the family at last.
There's nothing more, that I know of, to wait for."
He throws out his arm, and with the sepulchral note
proper to his office, announces, " Sir Claude Lorraine ! "

Lawks ! you don't say so ! " cries Mrs. Jenkins.
And if I didn't dream last night I saw him with a
black cat on his head, just as plain as I see you now !
There's his luck ; it crosses my dream to a T."

Time pressed, however, and Burton was not able to
linger over further details. It was a dreadful shock
to Mrs. Jenkins to hear that she and my lady were to
be left behind, and she solemnly declared that " no
good would come of it." axis for her, the Yilla Grimaldi
without Mr. Burton, who was to accompany my lord,
would be simply unbearable. She is not naturally
lachrymose, but she goes about all the time they are
getting off, sniffling dreadfully.

You have got a bad cold, Mrs. Jenkins," says
Mr. Burton.

It's not that," says Mrs. Jenkins, " and you knows
it isn't, Mr. Burton."

At four o'clock that afternoon, the earl, after taking

an affectionate heare of Lady Lame, and shaking
Lorraine warmly by the hand, stepped into a small
cabriolet just big enough to hold two persons Burton
sat beside him. A ragged \x)j for driver, and a lean
hoise went in front.

'ewe shan't set the Thames on fire with or
eqmpagey" laughs the earl ; "but we may mend in appearances
as we advance. We shan't make more than
one stage this evening, bat that will be something."

Lady Lore cries out anxiously, 'take care of
yourself ! Pray — pray take care of yourself! "

And take care of yourselves ! " cries the earl, and
wares his hand gaily. And so they see the last of
him at the Yilla Grimaldi

Lady Lanre walks into the house. She does not
raise her eyes to Lorraine. She sits down, rests her
ice upon her hand ; she is unable to conceal the pain
this parting gires her.

Don't first, Laure," says Lorraine, following her
into the room. *^ We young people mustn't let your
lather can off all the good spirits, though I swear I
believe he's deme so. I can't make out my sensations.
I feel just like a babe in a wood. Who'd hare thought
there was such a substantial security in your fisher's
comely £iee here? He didn't seem to do much
beyond eating, drinking, sleeping, just like ourselves ;
and yet here we are ! — all abroad without him. I hope
to Heavens," says he, with something of a forced laugh,
^ that Lucie will aocm some to take care of us ! "

^S9

Be if m change MMT, and 'hed giiem
to be believed of iL

"^CoMv TfWT," he ^^ify , vi a
-wlHildejiMaT^toawalk? r^gotaijksi
It's a kKtnewin't]^ nee we lad <»«£«■

"Shall I tell Jenkins to bring you your shawl,
Laure?" says he, moving away to the door. "You
will find me down below there ; " and he points down
the myrtle hedges.

Lady Laure tries to smile, tries to thank him. She
says she will go herself, and hurries off.

Once alone, she finds her best relief in the
abundant shower of tears she has been all this while
repressing. Now, with none to see, her bursting heart
has its vent, and she is comforted. >

I'm sure I'm not unhappy ! " she sobs, and then
she peers into her mirror and reads the tell-tale story
of her tears. " Why should I cry so ? " murmurs she.
My dear father is gone off quite happy again, and
dearest Lucie coming directly, too ! " Then she seeks
to wash and wipe away the traces of these idle tears.
"Claude hates to see me crying; and what will
Lucie think? If he thinks I am unhappy, what will
he say ? "

So Lady Laure takes herself to task, and tries all
means to efface her fault — cold water, and eau de luce,
and the eau orange that she made herself — and this
brings up a sigh, and half another tear for Mr. Mildew ;
and so she w went along, and it took some time, indeed,
this halting between Grief and Joy.

Lorraine stands smoking his cigar, leaning against
the gate-post — this favourite post of all frequenters of
the Villa Grimaldi. He stands with his back to the

enchanting sea, and with his face to the house. He
must have his eye upon Lady Laure. But Lady
Laure tarries ; she is busy throwing stones into Sorrow's
well, and trying to pick them out again — the last task
much harder than the first one.

Lorraine is not impatient. He doesn't care whether
Lady Laure comes in five minutes or fifty ; he only
proposed the walk to give her something to do — to
take her out of herself.

Gradually he falls into a reverie. He looks back
upon the last six months of his life. A more useless,,
hampering, bothering period of time, he cannot conceive
possible to any man, least of all to himself, — who, if his
life has not kept clear of uselessness, has made its first
acquaintance here, with what it is to be bothered and
hampered. Yet, while he chafes so at it, the memory
of his life before it — is a blank. What did he do in
those old days, when there was no pottering earl, no
mouldering Mildew, no mad brutes of peasants, no
lovely, adoring Lady Laure ?

"They've taken away my life," he cries aloud,
and given me nothing for it."

In the moment of his words, a light touch falls
upon his shoulder, and a voice, musical as a flute,,
makes him turn with a start.

Given nothing for it ! " says the voice.

It is Lady Laure, and it is not Lady Laure. This
blonde head, with its radiance of waving hair; these
large, wide, dazzling eyes; this transparent face of

ideal beauty, is Lady Laure's glorified. Lady Laure's
double wears a white hat at the back of the head,
pepper-and-salt pantaloons, a greenish coat, a greenish
neck-tie, and no collar at all to speak of.

For once, Lorraine is tongue-tied. The wonderful
apparition grasps his hand, tosses back his bright hair,
and cries, " Claude ! "

Then Lorraine's faculties come back, and in his turn
he cries, " Lucie ! "

So without more words, full of a great joy, of which
the world holds none greater, — hand-in-hand, stand
these two friends, who parted boys, and meet as men.
Thereupon, speech began to flow freely. What did
they say ? Did they know themselves ? What do we
all say, when the heart is full, and the soul rejoices,
and the head knocks under to both ?

Linked together, as in old Eton days, they turn
down the garden path, between the myrtle hedges —
these myrtle hedges that have heard so many heart
histories of late, — but they keep silence upon none so
buoyant, none so bounteous, as this renewal of the boy
Friendship of former days.

The new-comer says, " Stop, I have not seen you
yet." Less tall by half a head, he steps back; his
earnest eyes go up and down the bold, broad figure ;
his bright, rejoicing glance rests upon the face ; and
then he cries, " Why, Claude, what a knight paladin
you have grown into ! "

Then Lorraine laughs, and is himself again, and,

throwing his arm round him, still in schoolboy-fashion,
lie cries in return, "And what a Phoebus
Apollo is my dear old Lucie ! "

But Lady Laure from her window above espies her
counterpart — nothing so unlike as this blonde head to
Lorraine's raven locks. In a moment she is down,
tears and sighs and even their traces are forgotten,
as, with quick love, she flies to meet her brother's
embrace.

"My child!"

My darling Lucie ! "

So they greet each other.

Yes, Laure," cries Lorraine, with all his heart for
once in his words ; " here's Lucie at last come to take
care of us ."

If only we could take these rare and precious
moments in our lives, crystallize them, and fix them
in an adamantine setting, and wear them as talismans
upon our hearts, for future renewal and refreshment
in the dark days of distressful doom and disillusionment
! — if only we could do this !

Now all things sing lo Paean ; now the earl is no
longer missed; now Lady Laure's smiles shine out,
clear of all shadows; now Lorraine broods no moreover
his life, past or present; now poor mouldering
Mr. Mildew no longer haunts the air; — now no more

stones are thrown into Sorrow's well ; — for Lucie, like
an Angel from the upper world, has brought with him
a golden atmosphere, and wrapt them in it.

So they sit down together.

We dine at any hour, Lucie," says Lady Laure.
Then she turns, laughing, to Lorraine, ^^ Lucie won't
mind that. He never knows whether he has dined or
not dined ; we always have to tell him."

Lorraine looks affectionately across. He seems to
be taking the whole measure of this beautiful youth
with the radiant hair and eyes. Youth — was beyond
all other words, the most appropriate to him ; its very
aroma seemed to fill his being, and set a halo upon his
brow.

Lorraine brings his study to an end, with a shake
of the head and a smile. " He doesn't look like a
cooking animal, now Laure," says he; "nor much of
an eating animal ; still less like a self-killing and superstitious
animal, which some one said was the definition
of a man." Lorraine looks from the brother to the
sister. " He's very like you, Laure — very like. I'll tell
you what," says he, smiling ; " since he's so deficient

as a man, he must be an angel ! A pair of them ! "

adds Lorraine, gallantly, nodding at Lady Laure.

Do you believe in angels ? " asks Lucie, with his
earnest look.

If they're like you, Lucie, I should be disposed
to do so," says Lorraine.

Lucie shakes his head. "If they would come
quickly," says he, " I would accept them."

Then Lady Laure has something to say. " But you
believe in angels, Lucie. You call me your angel so
often."

I use it adjectively — that which is, for that which
might be," says he, looking at her tenderly. "Like
some other things, they are over-weighted for crazy
brains. If I believed in them, I must go seeking them ;
man could not satisfy my desires. So it is with it all.
Who could tarry here, if he believed something
better was beyond it ? "

As for Lorraine, he takes the world easily — past,
present, and to come ; and he lets the words pass. He
might have given one of his rallying replies, but there
was something in the tone that went with them that
stopt him. Still, he rallies Lucie on something else.

Give us at least a proof that you are an eating
animal, Lucie. As your father says, ' What's the use
of this air, if it does not give you an appetite ? ' "

Lucie smiles, and drinks off a glass of Asti spumante.
Is this nectar ? " says he.

"Very near to it," answers Lorraine. "It was
generous of the earl to leave it behind for us. He fell
in love with it at the place where he picked me up,
and brought us both away together. Two good finds,"
says he, with a lively nod. " When the wine is first-rate,

— which, by-the-by, is rarely — it is the most perfect
of all human drinks."

Lucie pours out another glass, and drinks it slowly.
Are you sure," says he, " that it is not superhuman ?
Its golden pallor betrays it." And he takes the glass,
and looks at it with serious eyes between the light.

Come," laughs Lorraine ; " after your rejection of
the angels, this superhuman Asti seems an unnecessary
provision for the immortals."

Why, then ! " — cries Lucie, " must not the messengers
of the Gods be fed ? AVill you not nourish the
workers of the winds and the sunbeams, of the waves
and the storms? — Ariel and Puck, Elf and Dis,
Damon and Deva, Valkyria and the heavenly Yazatas,
Ribhus and Demiarge, and the seven immortal Abdals."

But you don't profess to believe in them ? " cries
Lorraine, in return, infinitely amused.

The serious eyes, dazzling still, yet sad, — shift from
the glass of Asti to Lorraine's face. " Who knows ? I
don't. Do you ? "

Lorraine's handsome face, with its undoubted prose,
gives back a look of wonder. This long-lost Lucie
promises to become a fantastic mystery ; so beautiful,
so bizarre, so earnest, so boyish ! Strange that it
shouldn't tax Lorraine's short patience ; but it doesn't.

Lady Laure, having thereafter the perfection of

things in her mind, smiles and says, "It would be
perfect if you had not missed our dear father."

But I haven't missed him, my child ; I have seen
him. We met on the way ; but to stop was impossible.
I was going down ; he was going up. On his side a
wall that touched the sky; on my side a wall that
touched the sea ; the path narrow as the road to
Heaven. What would you have ? — each of us with
a Fate behind us! All the chance we had was a
Halloa ! ' and a * How are you ? ' "

"Filial and paternal," remarks Lorraine. "But I
can tell you, Lucie, you missed a moral lecture."

"Say political," answers Lucie, with a faint smile
and a sigh.

Papa was to have written a letter to you, but he
went off so suddenly ; he hadn't time."

Well, I would have read it. I always read his
letters, my dear Laure. I don't set you an evil
example, child. I'm not undutiful ; but yet such
letters as they are, — such sentiments as he has ; it is
enough to draw tears of blood, to see a good man so
sinning against himself — and his fellow-man ! "

Lucie stops. Then a bright laugh lights up the
beautiful face, and the tone of the voice changes into
indescribable gaiety. " But for all that, he looks as if
he had a good conscience. The dear old Pater has
grown fat and jolly here."

I sent Burton home with him," says Lady Laure,
VOL. I. z

with a responsible air. " I couldn't have him travel
alone; so now we have got only a little French maid
and Jenkins and a peasant girl."

-' You forget the hero of the umbrella," says
Lorraine.

But he is not indoors. We have but three really,"
says Lady Laure, reckoning up her household with the
gravity of a matron. " You won't mind Burton's being
away, Lucie, will you ? "

What's Burton to me, or I to Burton ? " and
Lucie shows his white teeth. " To be sure, I miss the
solemn * I hope I see your lordship well.' "

That's just the man," cries Lorraine.

Lucie can imitate every one," says Lady Laure.

Lorraine looks up. " It lies in the mouth,"
says he.

Lorraine was right. This mouth can convey as
much unuttered as uttered thought ; can take all
expressions. Its full, flexible curve, is a marvel of
beauty, and feeling.

Before the sun sinks they set out to wander together
by the shore, and through the terraced groves
in the rising breeze. But Lucie, who will see all at
once, is not content ; but must mount the hills to catch
the double chain of purple summits glittering and gilt ;
to behold the fiery sun sink into a flood of gorgeous
light ; to feast his eyes upon the luminous sea, the line
of the glowing shores ; to look down upon the silvery

^

masses of the olives, the pine-clad cape, and all the
rest.

Becalmed with pleasure, he throws himself down
on a bed of sweet mint and thyme, while the great
yellow grasshoppers bound to right and left of him ;
and falls into a rapturous silence.

In vain Lorraine points to the drowning sun and
cries, " Return."

Lucie is only able to remain.

Why — why not call me," he cries, " to this
paradise before?" There is a pleading pathos in his
upturned eyes. " Why keep it all to yourselves ? "

"Why didn't you come when you were called?"
says Lorraine, in his plain prose, with a laugh.

Then Lady Laure begins to tell, in softer tones,
of how much and how long she had been entreating
him ; of all she had written upon the charms of this
paradise.

You know, Lucie," she says, " you had my letters,
for you answered every one of them."

"Words, words," murmurs Lucie. "How can words
paint such a world as this?"

Now a party of peasants, with their mules and
burdens, come past. They are returning for the
morrow's /es^a from their labours across the mountains ;
the mules are laden, as usual, with the wine-barrels
and great water-gourds, and bundles of vine cuttings,
and with tools for work. The men walk light and

free, the women follow after, loaded ; they go singing
as they tramp by. It is the very chorus of the
euphorbia grove, and the selfsame ronda. In their own
tongue it is far more fascinating. Words and air
mingle into a most melodious whole. It is the long
a " which bears the voices over valley and hill, waking
many echoes as the strains sweep slowly over them.

"Oh! Sabe, bela Sabe,
Vinvio a ra nassau
e noasse non ago pa ;
Anerai a ra dans."
Se a ra dans vo vent,
Viestevo tota in bianca.**

Ra bela seen va viesti,

D'una coin charmante
Se ro blu va ben,

O verd ha ra speranza.
A o primo cou de tambour,

A bela intra in dans ;
A o second cou de tambour

A bela tomba mortal



Oh ! Sabe, bela Sabe,
Votre mori per foarza ? "
Per foarza non moro pa ;
Moro pe r'amo vestra ! "
Se per a mia vo more ;
Mi moro per a vestra ! "
Se rana o sen cote,
E s'o planta went' a coast.

Lucie is ready to move now. He goes first, keeping
up with the peasants and murmuring, " Sabe, bela
Sabe ! Sabe, bela Sabe ! "

vD

MEN AND ANGELS. 341

At the brink of the descent the men turn off to the
shorter cut down by the ravine.

"This is our way," says Lady Laure, taking his
hand gently.

Lucie looks longingly after the peasants ; — now
their voices go, now they come back again, now they
are lost behind the woods.

What a life ! what a life ! " cries Lucie, " for
these children of toil. They live like the lilies of the
field."

But they don't smell quite so sweetly," says
Lorraine.

Lucie turns to him with quick reproach. "Is
this their fault ? Is it even their misfortune ? The
million masses of mankind must be dirty. To be
clean is to have money, to have teaching, to have a
civilization. Can dirt be a reproach for those who
have none of these ? Can dirt shorten life ? Can it
lessen happiness ? Who has said ' Yes ' to this, and
proved it ? Disease and corruption : — who suffers most
from these ? — the savage in his wilds, or the citizen of
a civilized existence ? Nature answers for our coming
and our going; men supply the connecting links of
misery and suffering. Look at those children of
Nature ; you hold your breath as they pass by. Listen
to their joy-notes; behold their Eternal Childhood;
compare them with yourself. Which is the happier ?

which the freer ? As this air, as these waves are free
and bounding, they are free, their hearts are light.
Their Charter is the sun, their bulwarks are these hills,
their store the fruitful earth. Happy hearts ! their
li ives are songs and sunshine ; they can defy the
tyrant's power ! "

Lorraine, with a half-unconscious action, lifts his
hand to the back of his head. "For my part," says
he, " I have not fallen in love with them ! "

The beauty of their lives belongs to themselves,"
cries Lucie. " Ours is the defect if we cannot see it.
Could we put ourselves into their coarse garments ;
could we be unclean, as they are unclean ; gay, as they
are gay ; could we feel as they feel ; could we realize
all good and all evil, whether our own or another's ; —
the false idols of the world would fall before the
universal sympathy with Truth. First would die
Priestcraft, and then Kingcraft; and after these, all
the other crafty things that torture poor Humanity ! "

Lorraine looks at his friend's radiant eyes, fitter
exponents for the love he feels — than the hate he
dreams of, and says, — "Grant the existence of the
angels, and people your paradise with them, and then
your way of arranging it all would do very well."

I will people it with men," cries Lucie — " men,
moved by universal sympathy and love."

So let it be," answers Lorraine ; " only I bargain
for the word * universal.' Don't leave that out ! If

- — y^

MEN AND ANGELS. 31^

I sympathize with the tiller of the soil, let him sympathize
with me."

Ah ! " sighs Lucie, " can the worm feel for the
foot that crushes it ? "

Lorraine begins to laugh. " But what if I don't
crush the worm, you see ? I hate chains and cords as
much as you do, for honest folk. I have only a
partiality for a good set of laws."

** And where will you find them ? " asks Lucie.
Where is the Code that secures to all men their
rights — to all men their deserts ? "

• In your Paradise, peopled by my Angels," laughs
Lorraine.

Lucie does not heed ; he walks on, murmuring with
a sigh, " Nowhere ; nowhere ! "

They are still ui>on the hills ; earthy sea, and sky are
all aglow. Lucie is on ahead — he has gone back to
Bela saba," and its bewildering melody ; when, of a
sadden, he halts, with a cry, and a start, that bring
I .lady Laure and Lorraine to a halt as well.

'where is it?" he cries. "Where is it prone ?
where is the sun ? "

Where, indeed, was the Fire-God and his spreading
rays ? Echo might have taken up Lucie's ** Nowhere ! "

In the full presence of the glorious pageant of th*
sunset, night, string in the power of its intense gloom,
had come up and extinguished day. The pearly sky
was a pall ; the golden earth was wrapt in Siiblo ; the

crimson sea lay dark in shadow ; a touch as of death
chilled the warm air.

Fled ! fled ! " moans Lucie, with a shiver. " Here
is the dark wilderness again ! "

"Here we are upon the hills, after the sundown
! " says Lorraine. " Button up your coat, Lucie ;
if you don't catch one of their fevers it won't be
our fault."

END OF VOL. L

Gi

r

London : PRINTED BT WILLIAM CLOWES AND Sons, LIMITED,
Stamford STREET AND Charing Cross.

^

r

V

./-^

C

I C

\.,

Co.

^<^

r



~^

^

C2.34-0

^

AND

PRINCE FATAL

AND

PRINCE FATAL.

By MRS. Warrington

AUTHOR OF "MY COUSIN MAURICE.'

"Marriage is a desperate thing. The frogs in j£sop were extreme
wist. They had a great mind to some water, but they would not leap
into the well, because they could not get out again." — Selden.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:

SAMPSON LOW, Marston, Searle & EIYINGTON,

Crown BUILDINGS, 188\, FLEET Street.

1880.

(All rights reserved.)

-'

L The Wkced Woud . . 1

IL The Blue Feowes

Ill I :m-T i2~ I ::: >

IV. Home Truths asd Home Thrusts

V. Adgse

VT Xo Quarter . ;

VI I. Lucie sets ™w.y to sate the Wcblb

Vii Lucie saraes about a Catch . 109

IX. Wobld-Wasdebezs .

X. Widowed Mates . . . l-.-

XL Yaieeie . . . 1(G9

X1L Voices of the Xkht

Nul ^-Etzst Mast has a Fool h hb &jkktk" .
Adieu! Adieu!

XV. Corns . . . . 238

XVL Missives asd Mjs&k:

II. L'Apotke .

I. -I AM DISTRESSED FOB TTFrr KT BbOTMEB'"

Chapter I.

THE WICKED WOULD.

All ye who love the Truth, take heed — beware !
To think it is a danger and a snare ;
To speak it, be ye ready, horse in hand ;
To teach it, with the foot in stirrup stand.
Who tells a lie need not be so equipped ;
For much the larger number go whipped !

A week, and yet another and another, — and Lucie is
as much enchanted as ever. He has forgotten his
fancy for the New World, in the garden of Eden he
has discovered in the Old one.

Lady Laure rejoices. She sees it all, but says
nothing ; only to her father she writes of the comfort
it is to her. The earl compliments her heartily; he
gives her all the credit that is due to her, and perhaps
a little more. He affirms thatcher womanly influence
over her brother is most valuable ; that if she continues

VOL. II. B

to exercise it thus judiciously, lie has little fear but
that he will come all right in the end. From Lorraine,
too, he is happy to say, Lucie can get nothing
but good. Lorraine is one in a thousand ; — and the
Lorraine eulogy takes him on to the end of his
sheet.

The earl's letters are brimming also with public
matters. A political crisis is at hand ; the troubles
that loom so darkly on the Continent threaten to
disturb the peace at home. Aboyne's seat is not yet
filled up; the difficulty of finding the right man at
a moment's notice is enormous. As for Aboyne, he
talks of the army and foreign service ; he has let his
splendid place on the Severn, and talks also of selling
his Scotch estates ! " All this is very wild," — he goes
on to say, in his latest despatch ; — " and considering the
sensible and sedate character he has borne, is a way of
going on I should never have expected from him. I
sincerely wish Lorraine would reconsider his decision
as to politics — not that he is to be blamed ; he is a free
agent, and he is not the one to have put his hand
to the plough and drawn back — he would, however, bethe
greatest acquisition now to us, — staunch, but not
bigoted, and bringing at his back all his Irish position
and influence. However, what can't be, can't be,
although one thing strikes me forcibly, and this is,
that Lorraine should be thinking about going over
to Loughmore. I am inclined to think there must be
endless arrears of business there — rents run to waste,

and land too, during Sir Loftus's eccentric tenure.
However, I don't wish you to deprive yourself of Lorraine's
society, and, indeed, protection. You can come
home shortly, though not by France. In this case you
must wait till the passes are open ; don't attempt to
cross the Alps till then. As for France, it's my opinion
that they'll be in the middle of another Revolution
before they are many weeks older. I am glad from
my heart that your brother is clear of Paris, which is
nothing but a hornet's nest ! I was very glad on the
whole I took Burton with me, and I hope you don't
miss him. He's a very faithful fellow, and quite as
good as any courier for travelling. I find him useful
here now in many ways ; indeed, I am disposed to
promote him to the place of steward — in old Reason's
place, who must soon be superannuated. The difficulty,
however, is to fill Burton's ; so, perhaps, matters will
stand over for the present as they are."

Paternal epistles after this specimen arrive once or
twice a week; they keep Lady Laure's pen busy in
replying to them, and encourage her, in her responsible
post of taking charge of her brother, and of standing
herself alone — for, indeed, the proposition that he
should take care of her — was a mere formula of propriety
and of speech, born not of Lucie, but of the
brotherly relationship.

Lucie was all love and self-abandonment in following
after his enthusiasms, and in every cause where,
-according to his notions, weakness and strength, rights

and wrongs met in antagonism ; — but as to taking
care of himself, or of any one, or of anything, in a
regular ordinary way, — this was not his

It was a strange, dreamy life that they led upon
this mountain-side, girt by the sea — the all of human
nature about them, only a few peasant folks, with their
light hearts, and simple ignorance, and serious faith,
and the wealth of their few wants.

Lorraine, indeed, was more sleepy than dreamy, for
now every sun tL returned with its next rising,

a more imperious Conqueror to subdue the earth ;
and Lorraine making no pretence at resistance, gave
in his submission with more than resignation ; for, with
the triumphant noonday heat, came the indispensable

■:a, to break up the unvarying doings of the day,
and provide three hours of tranquil repose. Together
with Lucie, — it completed the benign influences just
at this moment at work upon him.

The breakfast hour was the social fete of the day ;
it was hard to catch Lucie either before or after it.
He would be up before the dawn, whilst the soft l:
still hovered, and the stars shone low and large, to
watch, from some favourite look-out, for the first faint

- '^e in breathless pleasure the pure 1 .
of the new-born day come gliding from ware to
over the slumbering blur — .11 the blushing rays
meet at last in a band of molten gold, and mom.
and grove emerge from their dark shadows, to clothe
themselves ir robes of many colours ;

an peak, and point, and cape, and cliff, and

town, and bay. aL the : ir-distant Isle acs.

stand out uni nile o| :ae morning

a clear and wondrous freshness, as if the magic of the
sunbeams had but just created them.

Then, — having drunk his fill at these sublime fountains
of deep joy, with the world only half awake
around, he throws himself down, — and feels that " ha
must weep or he must die."

But with the breakfast hour, the tangible things
of li: begin gain. Then Lorraine is wide aw
and Lucie is hungry, and moderately present in body
and mind. He eats his petits pains with surer
and if he : ta his : fee and his conti

Lady Laure. all smiles and r. at his

to remind him of himself and hi It

is the prose si:: off with all the

charms of luxurious comfort and loving interior

substantial, an
their fruits and their red wines. But still, it is
no mere material meal : it is the daily bread, as much

it launches the day
ir. —

a cheer ; it gives it a stay, to carry it through its
ennuis and its enjoyments.

What's in the wind now, Lucie ? " cries Lorraine.

Lorraine stands in the doorway of the parlour,

clad in a cool suit of whitish drab, just arrived from

the outer world of agitated life — and of tailors. Lucie

is taking no note of his friend. He is giving all his

energies, aided by Mademoiselle Sabine, to the safe

convoy, out of the window and into the garden, of the

table, spread for the morning repast. The trembling

cups and glasses make a perilous jingle; but the

feat is achieved without disaster. Then Lucie pats

Mademoiselle Sabine's cheek, and whispers in her

ear —

Jusqu'a l'lieure fatale
Ou le noir message
Dans sa barque infernale
Viendra tous nous ranger
II faut boire ma belle, boire ct manger ! "

Fi ! queUfvilaine chanson ! Ne me parlez pas de
9a," cries Mademoiselle Sabine, with a flout.

Clearly the two are on familiar terms. Probably
the pretty grisette flouted the sombre verse, quite as
much for what she didn't find in it, as for what
she did. It was not the mot galant she expected.
But as for Lucie, he always came out with the unexpected,

though now his reply is pithy and to the
purpose —

Villains oui ma belle ! vilaineet vraie"

Then Lorraine quits his position in the doorway,
and takes up another on the threshold of the window.

What's your new move, Lucie ? " he asks again.
If you think I'm going to breakfast under the sun
or in the sea, you're equally mistaken. I am not of
your superhuman nature — as little of the salamander
as the merman."

Lucie points to the sky. " See that unchanging
glory overhead! Why sit under the weight of roofs
and rooms in this ethereal air ? "

I doubt the origin," says Lorraine, with a laugh.
I suspect it comes of your Paris preferences. For
myself, I hate the Boulevard life — pavements, chairs,
tables, petits verres, flanders, and all the rest of it."

Then appears Lady Laure, smiling like Peace,
fresh and fair as Aurora, perfect in her serene loveliness
and matchless repose. She brings her sweet word
to settle the differences. " Maddelena shall help Sabine
to move it under the vine trellises."

The servants will die of the journeys to and fro,"
says Lorraine.

I am content with this," says Lucie, holding up
his bread with a serious look.

"And I am not," says Lorraine, laughing. "My
creature comforts make up a very long inventory."

Meantime, Mademoiselle Sabine is supplying these

creature comforts with no signs of a moribund crisis.
And now Lady Laure finds a spot where the vines
are thick with leaves ; and even Lorraine comes
round to confessing that Lucie's move is not a bad
one.

They still sit chatting and sipping. Lorraine has
brought the consumption of his inventory to a close.
Lucie is yet devouring his bread. Lady Laure continues
to put the creature comforts within his reach,
and he eats them up unconsciously.

Suddenly Lorraine looks behind him with a
Halloa ! what's this music ? "

Lucie is up at once, tossing his bright hair back,
as he goes on his look-out. Lady Laure and Lorraine
await the event deliberately.

A great whimpering and sobbing gains on their
ears, till the key to it appears in the shape of a ragged
little urchin, who comes limping through the gate
and up between the myrtle hedges, crying as if his
heart would break. Soon he sits down upon the
ground ; he takes one leg in his hands, and rocks
himself backwards and forwards.

Lucie comes leaping through the bushes, and
makes straight for the child.

Stop ! " calls Lorraine.

At his voice Lucie halts, his body forward, his
head over his shoulder.

"Let him alone," says Lorraine. "He is acting
his part to extract money."

Lucie springs a step nearer, and confronts Lorraine
with the air of a champion ready to do battle. " Acting
his part, you say ! " Lucie shakes his head fora
moment with a silent protest. " He acts very well,
Claude. He will make his fortune some day. No
doubt, he belongs to that great corps dramatique —
known as suffering humanity. I will go and interrogate
this young comedian." And with that he turns
quickly to the boy.

Much dumb-show follows. The child at first
redoubles his tears and cries. He is overdoing his
part, according to Lorraine ; — according to Lucie, he
is afraid of being kicked away.

But children and dumb animals — creatures weak
and subject — have as keen an instinct for their sympathizers
as for their masters ; — it takes no long time
to establish confidence. Lucie strokes the shaggy
little head, and touches the leg, which seems to bethe
seat of woe. Then the tears subside into sighs
and a sob, the miserable little face unpuckers, and the
pantomime finishes by Lucie taking the boy in his
arms and carrying him into the house.

The servants, Jenkins, Maddelena, ami Sabine,
have also been attracted by these disturbing sounds.

They stand together in a corner as Lucie comes in

with his burden.

"Petit marmot !" says Mademoiselle Sabine,
tossing her head.

Lucie sits down with the child upon his knees,
whispering low words over him. "Petit marmot!
Pauvre petit marmot ! " says he, lifting his eyes to
Mademoiselle Sabine's. " Si seulement il y avait ici
quelque coeur tendre pour meander a te soulager ! "

Then a smile creeps over his face, curls the lips and
the eyelids, and his hand brings out some coins. " Au
coeur tendre, bon cadeau — ou bon baiser."

Lucie's words and signs have the one merit of being
intelligible. Maddelena's peasant eyes, full of the
greed of money, glisten at the sight of it. She takes
half a dozen steps forward. Sabine, with eyes on the
ground, starts after her, and gets ahead. In the end,
they stand side by side before Lucie and the marmot.

Then Lucie's bright eyes open wide. He looks at
them steadily. There is the whole moral of Humanity
in this stedfast gaze.

Mademoiselle Sabine clasps her hands. "Est il
blesse ? " cries she.

From Maddelena come certain sounds, which she
means should pass 'for pity.

Lucie drops his eyes, which have done such good
service. He takes up the child's naked foot — a dusty r
brown little limb, covered with hard skin and scratches;
and he explains that somewhere there is a thorn or
splint, and that soap and water will help them to
find it.

In the second act of this comedie, Sabine is seated
in Lucie's place. She now holds the boy. Maddelena
is on her knees with a basin of water, bathing the foot.
The two are acting the part of coeurs tendres to
perfection. Only Mrs. Jenkins remains stonily in the
background. As she remarked afterwards, — if she had
touched the filthy little ragamuffin, water wouldn't have
made her hands fit to wait upon my lady for a year !

The offending thorn is soon extracted. Then Lucie
suggests that the tears be washed away as well. As if
by magic, or as if Lucie's two handmaids of charity
were in truth the fairy godmothers of the story, so
with this last stroke of their handiwork, the heaven-bestowed
beauty of the boy appears. Born under
another sky, he would have been as fair as his fair
champion. Long violet eyes, long curling lashes,
long pencilled eyebrows, broad low forehead, sweet-cherub
features, the yellow matted hair streaked with
yellower gold.

"Pauvre ange !" whispers Mademoiselle Sabine;
and she kisses the bow-shaped mouth.

Ou done est le petit marmot ? " asks Lucie. Then
he throws back his head — and holds out his handful of
coins. " C'est a choisir," says he.

Maddelena's arm goes out at full stretch. Mademoiselle
Sabine's eyes go again to the ground.

Into the ready hand, with a chink, fall the small
silver monies ; and noiselessly upon Mademoiselle
Sabine's cheek — falls the promised kiss.

Then Lucie takes the child from her, to lead him
away. " Pauvre ange ! " he murmurs ; " come to teach
us the Law of Love."

Mademoiselle Sabine catches the last word. To
her sense, it is the mot galant come at last. With a
half-blush and a smile, she coquets with the speaker ;
but Lorraine arrives to spoil the sentiment of the
situation. He confronts her with a broad laugh, bringing,
as another eyewitness, Lady Laure's disconcerted
face.

"A very pretty little play ! " says he, as they come
up with Lucie ; " and truly French. But upon my
word, my dear fellow, your pluck in the kissing line
surprised me ! "

Lucie stops short with a wondering stare. " And
-can you jest," he cries, "at the kiss which teaches
the sublime truth that all men are kindred?— These
women turned from this little one with cold eyes ;
the one is hardened by a pitiless toil, the other by a
heartless service ; — they know nothing of the blessed
balm of sympathy, bestowed and received. I give
them their lesson, — to each as she can take it : to the
one money, the lack whereof has deadened her poor
soul ; to the other the kiss of human brotherhood —
a brotherhood which her poor heart has had no
experience of! Wide is the gulf between these two
women, yet in both is a step gained ; — for both have
washed the feet of suffering innocence ! "

Lorraine laughs outright. " Such brotherly

salutes," says he, " may come sublimely from you, my
apostle of Humanity ; but when I set about bestowing
the kiss of brotherhood upon such a pretty coquette,,
neither she — nor the wicked world — will give me any
credit for my magnanimous intentions."

Ah ! my Claude," cries Lucie, with a great compassion
in his voice. "Realize the Eternal Truth,
practise it, and teach it, — and after the first half-hour r
the sneers of the Wicked World will go for nothing ! "

Lorraine turns to Lady Laure, with a sotto voce,
Laure, what's your opinion upon these sublime duties?
Shall I begin to practise them at once ? "

CHAPTER II.

THE BLUE FLOWER.

Leave behind old pedigree,
Dead names, nought to you and me ;
Let the soul our father be ;
In the heart our mother see ;
Let our actions be our rank ;
And our hopes our only bank.

Lucie's enjoyment of his new paradise is absolute.
He mourns no more over the crafty things of Human
Life ; he sees no more the cruel wrongs that madden,
the false lights that mislead ; he forgets that the
world is grown old and wise and wary, and that it is
wicked as ever ; — he is buoyed up with the beautiful
wings of a Youth that personates the Immortal. The
swift rush of the ages, is hidden, in the sweet monotonous
seesaw of dawns and settings, that bring only
one unvarying interchange of brightness and beauty.
He fears not the sable gloom of the twilight ; it is no
dark wilderness now ; it is a mysterious Mother, tender
and solemn, soothing her children to repose, while she,
holds for them, — the glories of the sun in one hand,

and of the moon and the stars in the other. He revels
in the delicious earth, in the delicious air, in the
delicious sea.

For whole days and nights he will be missing,
and at evening-time he will return from wandering he
knows not where. He has kept no count of time;
he asks if many days have gone by? He tells of
new mountains that he has crossed; of new horizons
he has come to ; of dark gorges he has threaded ;
of streams he has leapt ; of watercourses he has
waded ; of noisy torrents whose boulders he has made
into stepping-stones ; of the opal pools — of the eddying
whirls, of the backward curl of the struggling waters ;
of inaccessible heights whose summits he has sought
to reach ; of summer tempests that played beneath his
feet ; of cloud-mists that hid the nether world ; of the
voiceless majesty of the solitary valley ; of the midday
slumber in the shaded forest. His garments are
something the worse for it ; his hair is tangled with
dry leaves, — but his eyes beam with inspiration.

At other times he roams along the shore, past cape
and headland and jutting rocks ; he laughs for joy at
his wild games with the waves ; he sits upon the reefs,
with the surf tossing white about him ; he swims into
lonely caves, where never mortal swam before; he
comes back with his golden locks lank and dripping,
but with no damp to the spirit of his delight.

Nor are his pleasures all solitary. He gives full
rein to his personal sympathies ; he mingles with

the peasants, masters their speech, joins in the song-and
the dance ; he knows the names of all the
mothers, learns all the games of the children ; he
goes fishing in the boats, and gossipping in the
groves ; he gathers the lemons, picks up the olives,
and takes a turn at the vine-trimming. Out upon
the hill-side plots of grass, if he comes upon some
sunburnt, weary, woman creature, toiling under the
scorching blaze, he makes her seek some shade to
rest in, while he scatters the top-dressing, or rakes
together the first hay crop, or hoes at the sparse
wheat plant, or the luxuriant spreading gourd. He
empties his pockets and his purse ; he touches his
hat to the young men, and shakes hands with the
old ones ; he greets them as " Mestre " or " Mistress,"
the babes are "Pinions," and the young girl is
Domaijela."

The peasant people wonder first, and worship next ;
and then the wonder ceases, for the miraculous is their
daily food. What more natural than that our Lady of
Good Help, whose shrine looks down upon that distant
grave over the hills, should have restored to them
for a brief space their Patron, with the radiance of
Youth and Beauty set upon his brow ! There is here
nothing to reconcile. When power is equal, one thing
is as another ; — so the simple soul grasps the Infinite,
and so the legend takes root and grows.

Whilst Lucie thus walks, as Lorraine once said,
with his feet on the earth, and his head in the

heaven above it," Lady Laure and Lorraine have
many things on their hands.

Lady Laure has the serious task of conducting the
menage. Jenkins has not Burton's accomplishments
to get along with ; she is silent in all languages but
her own, and deaf and dumb too in that occasionally ;
therefore Sabine must receive all orders first hand,
and interpret them to Maddelena and Giause. Moreover,
there is the bi-weekly despatch to the earl ; and
also a new correspondence which has sprung up with
the old lady aunt and her daughters, — whom they went
to meet and didn't find, — and came across Lorraine
instead.

If that old lady had not been so restless to get on !
if she had not set her heart upon that meeting ! if she
had not been so impatient of delay! — what virtue
might not have belonged to these " Irs " !

Now this old lady is again in the horizon, and there
is no saying what course she may be shaping for everyone
this time ; there is an occult influence about her.
At this moment she is ill, and the daughters are
in trouble ; and Lady Laure is much concerned, and
would be very glad to do anything for them besides
sending off condoling letters, — if she knew of anything
else to be done.

Lorraine also has a good deal to think about.
Pre-eminently there is the unavoidable question —
When shall he go to Loughmore ? "

For months — it has, indeed, grown to many months
VOL. II. c

he lias been chafing under Lady Laure's silken
chains. Now a legitimate excuse offers to break
away, for a time at least, and yet — though truth to
say, the chains drag more and more — he is slow to
take advantage of the chance. But long ago Lorraine
had said, " If Lucie were here, it would make all the
difference." And all the difference it did make, but
not after the manner that Lorraine had anticipated.

Unchanged as he was in character himself; with
a nature which had proved itself, hitherto at least,
incapable of development ; with all his good, and
what there was of bad — much as it was at the beginning
— he was not prepared, in spite of Lady Laure's
chance warnings, to find the soft, sweet-smiling,
sausage-toasting Lucie, with as much modification
of his boyhood's self, — as if his soul had left his body,
and returned to it again, having passed through in the
interim, all the transmigrations of Eastern belief.

Some such idea did come into Lorraine's mind,
as from day to day he watched his friend's tender
abstractions, his unique immateriality, his earnest
devotedness, his sensitive accord with mother Nature
in all her moods.

There's nothing at all " — says he to himself — " in
our state of things here below to give a key to it. He's
some sort of a stray bird from paradise, — though it's
hard to say what ! "

But the symbolical birds of paradise of the world,
are not hailed unanimously as such ; like the chameleon,

they are often quarrelled over, and take their colours
from the lights they are seen in.

There was the earl, who detected anything but an
aroma of the celestial in his son's vagaries, — with the
typical red cap set on his radiant brow ; — and who
would have told you that Lorraine, with his " grosser
correctness," was by many degrees more like to a
wanderer from the spheres !

It took Lorraine no lonsr time to discover that
but for friendship, he had little now in common with
his friend ; — but the fact increased, rather than lessened
his tenderness for him. Tenderness ! It was not
Lorraine's strong point; and yet he was tender, and
nothing else, to Lucie — tender as manhood may be.
to the enticing gambols of a child. He smiled at his
visionary fancies, stood out against his dreamy theories,
rallied him upon his experimental programmes for
making all men, brothers, and all women, sisters, wondered
at his enthusiasm for common air and common
earth and common folk ; — but he had no sneers or jeers
for him. Lucie's presence took the very power of
derision out of him, and the best joke in the world
would be left unsaid, if it risked the giving Lucie a
moment's pain.

Lorraine was not demonstrative, but an outsider
would have seen in everything he said, and did not
say, in everything he did and did not do, — how close
his friend was to his heart ; and it came to this,
that, although he saw but little of him — for all

the day long Lucie was soaring somewhere or other in
his dreamland — to leave the villa with Lucie still
under its roof, was the last thing, when it came to
the point, he could bring himself to do.

All this was quite independent of his will ; he
couldn't help himself. He had his entertainments
as well as the rest. If the qualities of his heart
were nothing remarkable, he was what he seemed to
be when he did profess and protest; — and below an
indefinite amount of indolent nonchalance, there was
a tenacious substratum which never gave way, which
was unchangeable, indelible, and which could be —
implacable.

It was this unyielding quality which bound him
now to his friend. It was no new attraction — not
even a revival ; it was the pulse still beating of
the one affection of his boyhood, or rather of his
lifetime, — an affection which had never subsided, and
had never been supplanted ; an affection which, as he
himself once said, — " when once formed, nothing can
change."

As to Loughmore and its claims, Lorraine found
no difficulty in leaving things as they were for the
present, as far as he was personally concerned. But
it was not so easy to let alone all affairs connected
with it, or to keep at bay the shoal of inflowing correspondence
which set in from the very moment that
the breath was out of Sir Loftus Lorraine's body.
Letters of all kinds — from agents, lawyers, priests,

incoming tenants, outgoing tenants, evicted tenants,
election whips, Church charities, and much more.

Some of this troublesome paper must be looked into,
some of it replied to. It is often a good morning's
labour ; but Lorraine gets rid of it as briefly as he can,
and says nothing about it. It is difficult to be more
reticent than he is on his personal affairs ; and it was
a significant fact, that at the end of something more
than three weeks, Lucie was still unaware of Sir
Loftus's disobliging departure. It was one of those
undeniably important events, which, through the way
they are taken by the chief persons concerned, make
no more stir — than if they were the veriest trifles.

It was the last thing Lorraine would begin himself
to talk about. Lady Laure was full of other matters,
and Lucie was up in the clouds. Their obliviousness
was partly due possibly to their foreign surroundings —
for there is ever a vagueness, a sort of realization
of home and personal matters, in such a situation — a
temporary lull, which is, perhaps, the most resting
and refreshing part of the recreation of travelling.

The servants, too, fell into a curious complicity.
Jenkins, since Burton's departure, had become singularly
dumb ; — and to Sabine, Lorraine and Lucie were
simply — the " Monsieur Anglais " that was affreux, and
Monsieur Anglais " that was fou.

It took Lucie, therefore, with a quick surprise to
see one day, amongst his own letters, a stray one
addressed to Sir Claude Lorraine, Bart. Suiting his

action to his impulse, as was the way with him, he
goes with three jumps to his friend, and, holding the
letter up before his eyes, he cries, " What seest thou,
Claude?"

Lorraine's mind going solely upon the worry of his
Loughmore correspondents, he pushes the letter wearily
away, saying, "If I could only for six days get away t<>
the ends of the earth out of the reach of it all ! "

Lucie flings down the letter, straightens his arms
by his side, looks unspeakable things at Lorraine, and
then mutters, " great soul ! "

What is it now, Lucie ? " asks Lorraine, all
abroad.

Lucie comes near and takes his hand. " Brother
of my heart," he cries, " shall we abandon it all ? —
renounce everything but our love for each other, and
for Humanity ? Let us limit our ambition to this
hamlet ; let us devote our lives to these simple
peasants ; let us call ourselves happy — when we have
made them — virtuous and content. No longer let
us aspire to move the world — to shake thrones ; let
it be enough for us — when in this small community
of human beings, we can see Good ceasing to travel
with its miserable negative. Thus soul with soul,
and soul for soul, we shall save and bless; and thus,
my Claude, at last in you I find my precious blue
flower. I mourned for it ; I pined for it ; I searched
for it; I knew that it was once mine! I knew that
it must be mine, now — once — and for ever. A sense of

desire, of possession, of loss — the memory of that
which has been, and must be again ! "

Lorraine listens to Lucie's words as a man watches
a strange pantomime, straining in vain to comprehend
it. A sharp fear crosses his mind. " Is he absolutely-crazed?"
Thus thinking, thus fearing, he passes his
hand through his arm, and says, waiving all reply,
Laure is in the orange grove ; let us join her."

Lady Laure is sitting in her favourite bower.
Lucie throws himself upon the tangled herb beside
her. Lorraine stands before them, leaning against
the thick clustering branches.

We are come, Laure," cries Lucie, " to talk of
our new life. I have but one doubt. — Do we not consult
sense too absolutely in planting our lives in such
a paradise as this? How this odorous air steeps us
in its rich perfume ! How the sweet fall of the sea
soothes our ears ! How rapturous is the blue heaven
that glances through this tender shade ! "

Alas ! " says Lady Laure, " and in a week the
passes will be open, and we must leave it."

Leave it ! Never ! " cries Lucie.

Yes, yes ; papa says it will be safe and easy to
travel then. Here is his letter. You must take me
home, and Claude must go to Loughmore."

Never, Laure ! " says Lucie, solemnly. " Never !
We shall live here — you and Claude and I, away from
the turmoil of cruel pride, out of the reach of hateful

distinctions — which at least we can annul in our own
persons. Never at Bellarmine shall I, — never at
Loughmore will Claude, — walk over the necks of
serfs and slaves ! "

Lady Laure cries with animation, " Why, Lucie,
you are beginning those old things over again ! "

Old and cruel things ! " sighs Lucie.

Very good things in their way," says Lorraine,
with a laugh, " both for you and for me, Lucie ; and
though for my part I wish Sir Loftus had held on a
little longer, yet since he's made a vacancy, being of
the earth earthy, you will see me take possession indue
time. As to the worthy tenants, my short experience
of them at a distance does not in the least
coincide with my notions of serfs, but rather of out-and-out
bores ; and if they go on as they've begun,
it's my intention to tell them so when we come to
close quarters."

The beautiful face is upturned to the sky; the
ardent eyes are fixed as if in welcome of some
descending brother spirit ; but as Lorraine speaks
on, the eyes droop, with a look of ineffable sorrow.

Is it all a dream, then ? "

Yes, Lucie," says Lorraine, cheerily ; " blue flower
and all ! Laure, with her celestial orbs, is the only
blue flower that I know hereabouts ! "

Lucie's shaded eyes are lighting up again. " It is
no dream," he says. "Our lives will still be one.
You are my brother ; you are my blue flower, Claude ;
and Laure has gathered it for me ! "

CHAPTEK III.

POETRY AND POLITICS.

I must confess, you men of clay,
You have a pleasant time ;
"With every chance you catch the day,
And take life at its prime.

Those fine-wrought souls of tension rare,
"With passions all sublime,
Like sweet bells jangled in the air;
Despair is in their chime.

Lucie's presence had none of the gene of a third
person for the affianced pair; long looked for, when
he came at last, his presence more than fulfilled its
anticipation. With his warmly welcomed arrival a
new epoch set in ; a new fillip was given to the flagging
interests of the day ; and something like real animation
ruled the hours of intercourse and conversation.

Since the decline of the old jests and jars about
poor Mr. Mildew," much of the zest had gone out of
the tete-a-tete^ of the two lovers, for, after all, if something
better, or even worse, had suggested itself, as
an easy topic to talk about, Lorraine more often than
not — would have left Mr. Mildew alone.

But when this sorry piece de resistance so tragically
failed, small talk and serious talk began to fail too ;
and as the days grew longer, and the heat stronger,
even Lady Laure might have been caught yawning.
The fact was, it had been a very dreary time indeed
between that day of misfortune which laid Lorraine
on the sofa and Mr. Mildew in the grave, and that
other day — which took away the earl and brought the
ardent, soul-stirring Lucie.

But with Lucie, for the time, all old things passed
away ; he infused a new interest and a new impulse,
he furnished new food, both to rivet and to divert
attention ; he took them altogether out of themselves
and out of each other. He was the very panacea for
the nameless lassitude which preyed upon them — from
morning till evening the events of the day centred in
him. His flights and his fancies, his wanderings and
returns, the pangs and the pleasures that alternately
tortured and transported his brain, became the continual
subject of their conjecture and concern.

With full consent of both lovers, he was the admitted
rival of each.

Lady Laure had, indeed, no words to express all her
admiration for her lover ; but with all the words she
had, she gave voice to her affection for her brother.

Lorraine, who saw in Lady Laure " the only woman
he could have wooed or wedded," saw also in Lucie —
the only friend, man or boy, who had won his affection
and kept it.

Lucie himself, of all creatures the most winning
in his ways, was also the most surprising. What will

come next ? with him was a question which nothing

but the experience of the moment could decide. Atone
time he was an ignis fatuus, at another an antagonism.
But his powerful sympathies, his prostrate
agonies, his passionate impulses commanded a hearing,
and went home to the heart with a loving persuasion,
that left the reason out in the cold.

Wild as were his words, destructive as were his
theories, impracticable as were his desires, yet, when
he gave vent to his enthusiasms, he lifted it all into
the light of his own soaring spirit. When you listened
to his projects for perfection, when you heard his cry
at the miseries of mankind, you saw it was useless,
you knew it was madness ; but your heart was fascinated.
You took no part in his visionary ideal ; but
you looked at him, and listened to him, and you
realized the inspiration which carried him aloft ; you
saw his beautiful face, his unclouded eyes ; you beheld
the love, the devotion, the innocence, the spotless unselfishness
of his soul, and you said, " Could all be

pure as he is pure, it would be neither madness nor
folly, but a new earth and a new heaven, where to
love your brother as yourself is not an empty letter,
but a living and fertilizing spirit."

In the old schoolboy days, soft and gentle as he
was, yet Lucie's wishes and plans were at the bottom
of all that the two friends did in common. It was the

understanding of their boyish covenant that Lucie
should be at the trouble of initiating everything ; and
from the holiday walk, to that baby betrothal at
Bellarmine, — Lorraine was only responsible for his
acquiescence. As it was then, so it was now ; the
stronger and harder mind was still the least wilful,
and the most complying. Lorraine was ever ready to
live like a lamb under Lucie's eager though tender
yoke. Half-mystery, half-child, unfathomable as the
one, transparent as the other ; when with the dumb entreaty
of sadness or gladness clouding or sparkling in
his eyes, Lucie pleaded for the thing his heart was
set on, Lorraine, — pleased and puzzled at the appealing
earnestness, the sweeping eagerness of his friend,
would give way with an inert pleasure in being thus
disposed of, and saved all trouble of choice and
decision.

But it was not all laziness, though laziness was
Lorraine's besetting sin ; there was a vital spark at
the root of this easy will. If it came of an indolent
habit, it came also of the concentration of an untroubled
affection, and of the gratification of yielding
to its sway. Not that Lorraine was the one to pine
for love of any kind, if he was without it. He knew
very well how to stand alone. Home and hearth — the
ties of father, mother, sister, brother ; the community
of family hopes, fears, interests — were blanks to him.
He lived more than well without them ; and when, at
eighteen, his friend Lucie passed out of his life, he

lived very well also without him. Yet, while the
friend faded in the lapsing years, the friendship remained
freshly present ; a pleasant memory, sufficient
of itself to keep the heart-springs alive — those Springs
which, as life goes on, run so to waste, now over
flowery meads, now over desert plains, but always to
waste, — running themselves dry at last.

As yet, however, whatever Lorraine's heart lacked
in feeling and force, it had never run to waste — never
run dry. Its comfortable condition was that of the
sealed fountain ; torpid, perhaps, in source, and without
vent, but without exhaustion and without fret.

It is Lucie's heart that is the cascade ; it fills and
fills and overflows, so fast, that there is ever room for
more, — and yet for more. Its waste is inevitable, and
its drought too. It wants but Time and the Hour to
bring the melancholy moment when its golden springs
shall have run dry. Yet it has one final chance, — it
may expire before it is exhausted. But this carries us
back once more to that old, cold, comfortless word,
invented of men, that to die early is to die blest, — a
hollow word, without conviction ; a word that can
only probe the mysterious questions of the soul, to
leave them further from solution than before; for to
take again the old formula — Whom do the gods love ?
Do they love the keen and the gifted, or the blunted
and the commonplace ? the Lucius or the Lorraine ?
Is it a mark of their favour to live long and to see

good days, or to be " too good to live," as the
saying is?

Lorraine's rule of the congeniality of contrasts,
upon which he once insisted to Lady Laure, — was
singularly illustrated in his harmonious bond with his
friend. Opposite as the poles, no rule that fitted the
one applied to the other ; and, amongst other things,
Lorraine was as sociable as Lucie was solitary.

All the long day, whether dull or gay, Lorraine —
other matters got through — walks and talks, sits and
chats with Lady Laure. Sometimes he may yawn, and
sometimes he may pause ; but still, he sticks to his
post. Except when things are going wrong with him,
he prefers any company — to none. If Fate had fixed
his life on the outskirts of sociable existence, he would
have followed in the steps of those scattered peoples
who detain the traveller by force in their hospitable
hands, and break up his wheels, so that he must wait
till they are mended again.

But Lucie goes dreaming alone, — not that he loves
you less — or himself more, but that he forgets your
existence and his own as well. When he speaks, — his
words come with a meaning and a force; — but he is
silent, save when he has something to say.

Is it always so ? " asks Lorraine of Lady Laure,
as they sit discussing, as usual, their absent Phoenix.

Lady Laure nods her head with a smile. " Except
when you are ill or miserable, you know," says she ;
and then he will sit all day beside you, till he gets
ill and miserable himself."

It's a fact," says Lorraine, throwing himself back
in his chair, " he doesn't give us much of his company,
or of his words either, even when he is with us. But
still, Laure, I wouldn't change his silence for other
men's rattle, I can tell you."

Lorraine is at his old game, drumming on the table.
After keeping up a steady tattoo for the space of a
minute, he stops and says —

It's all a craze with him, no doubt ; but it's the
craze of an angel, not the stuff mortal madmen are
made of. He's the ideal knight of your Tasso's and
Ariosto's and Arthur's romances. He's the Eastern
prince they tell you of, who left his throne for the
hermit's cell, for the love of God and man. He's more
of a Saint than all the calendar put together. No
wonder he can't breathe in this muddy world, which
has no room at all for inspired creatures like him."

Ah ! if there were more like him ! " sighs Lady
Laure.

Lorraine shakes his head, with a sceptical smile.
My dear Laure, one Lucie in the midst of us men
of clay — partakes of the sublime; two would be a —
simple absurdity."

To them comes Lucie suddenly, with his bright,
glancing eyes, and a journal in his hand.

these critics ! " cries he. " Why do they
understand their business so badly ? Why do they
praise what is worst, and pass over what is best ? "

Lucie complains of the critics, but either they or
something else has thrown him into his happiest
mood. His voice is exulting ; his whole air is buoyant
and triumphant ; he is very rapturous ; but it is no
dreamy ecstasy — he is, where he seems to be.

Ah ! your poem ! " cries Lady Laure, running upto
him and taking the paper from him.

Let me see, Laure," interposes Lorraine, stretching
out his hand. " I am such a judge," says he,
laughing.

She gives it to him. He looks up and down the
columns.

Long quotations, I see." As he reads, his lip
curls a little. " The noble lord is very tenderly
touched up. It's all so melodious ! " Then he throws
the paper across to Lady Laure. " I call it melodious,
Lucie ; what do you ? "

Lucie's task upon earth, no doubt, was to save the
world. But, with all his devotion to his suffering
Humanity, he was also a poet ; and poets, for the most
part, are sensitive beings, keenly conscious of their
poetic selves, alive to all arrows, whether aimed at
them — or not.

Now at Lorraine's jest, Lucie is clearly wounded,

but not resentful. He catches the paper quickly from
Lady Laure, crams it behind a sofa-cushion, and throws
himself down upon it, face under, with a smothered
groan.

How have they found out your name, Lucie ? "
asks Lady Laure.

Lucie moves himself convulsively.

Isn't it published with his name ? " says Lorraine.
" Why shouldn't it be ? A man has a right
to his own name ; and, for that matter, in some cases
the world has a right to it too. I hate all nameless
things ; they're so unsafe and so safe ; that's just it."

Lorraine, for once, is talking wide of his thoughts.
His eyes are fixed all the time, in remorseful gaze,
upon Lucie's crumpled form.

"I don't object to the praise, you know, Lucie.
It's honestly due and honestly given. Only to that
sort of flummery ! "

Wretched work ! " comes with a groan from the
sofa.

What's wretched ? " asks Lorraine, with a disingenuous
voice ; for his conscience is smiting him all
the while, and accusing him loudly of Lucie's wretched
plight.

What's wretched ! " answers Lucie, starting up,
shaking his hair back from his flushed face. "This
is wretched. If that trash had been written by John
Smith, it would have been damned past redemption,
crushed with contempt, torn to tatters in ten minutes.

VOL. II. d

I know all this ; I know it, and yet I did not blush
to read these fulsome words. The fiery of this vile
class worship smelt sweet in my nostrils ! "

Ah ! " cries Lady Laure, unwittingly strengthening
his self-reproaches ; " and he came in so happy ! "
And she looks at Lorraine with a grieved face.

Laure, have pity ! You see I am down in the
dust," supplicates Lucie.

It's all my fault ! " cries Lorraine. " And, upon
my word, I believe there's no foundation for it at all."
Then he gets up, goes to the sofa-cushion, and brings
out the offending journal. He scans, or seems to scan,
its contents ; and then he tosses it on the table. " It's
perfectly reasonable," says he ; " and it's my idiotic
habit of making a joke. I have a good mind to register
a vow never to make another."

Lucie looks across at him with desperate earnestness.
Make no vows, Claude ; bind yourself to nothing.
You are human, — as I am."

The beautiful brow is contracted, drawn up, full of
pain ; the eyes strained ; the mouth with a quiver.

Lorraine is too sorry for this needless woe, to laugh
at it ; but still he tries what a laugh will do. " You
were a good deal happier, old fellow," says he, " when
you cooked our sausages, and that other boy, whose
name I remember not, made our verses, and I played
the part of consumer and critic."

But nothing will bring a smile upon the woebegone
face. Then Lorraine tries another tack —

Now just take it the other way, Lucie, and suppose
your poem to be cut up, precisely for the very
reason that you carry ' Lord ' before your name."

I should see no indignity, and much less dishonesty
in that," answers Lucie.

'•' And for my part," says Lorraine, something out
of patience, " I should see a great deal more dishonesty
in it, and the worst kind of envy. As to class-worship,
it's a cant word ; but if it means anything,
it's all round, — high as well as low. But I grant you
hatred of one class is confined to one class. I don't
hate your tiller of the soil, you know; — but certain
prophets would be very glad to make him hate me."

"Who invented the word ' Canaille?" asks Lucie,
throwing out his hand.

'•' Not an Englishman to a certainty," rejoins
Lorraine, quickly. "Where it comes from, in such
matters, and in most matters, — in my opinion, there's
little to choose and less to admire."

Prejudice, prejudice," murmurs Lucie. Then he
cries aloud, " It is a fatal wrong, — to confound Good
with Bad."

Oh," says Lorraine, laughing, " I'm justice itself !
I'd give even the devil his due. And as to your
friends up there, I don't blame them for their last
move, or for getting rid of a sordid lot ; — but if they
don't stop now, take my word for it they'll get round
somehow to the very [mischief they've got rid of. Their
fatal mistake, or misfortune, or whatever you like to
call it, is to move in a vicious circle."

Never again ! " is Lucie's cry. " Never again ! "

Very soon again ; that's my view of it," returns
Lorraine. " But you'll see, if you live long enough ;
and you need not live very long for that either. However,
I hope they'll keep quiet for the next week or
two. I don't fancy being blown up on one of their
barricades, as one is peaceably passing through their
capital."

Lucie is lying on his back, looking upwards. " I
have dreamt of such a death," murmurs he; and a
shiver of pallor crosses his upturned face.

Come down from the clouds, Lucie," cries Lorraine.
You were lucky last time to get out of it all without
your eyes being gouged out, or your body being made
a target of. If you can't contain your ardour, you
have a remedy denied to the prose part of mankind.
Mount your barricades in verse ; write a * Marseillaise '
for your friends, or something still finer, if you can ;
but don't go and mix yourself up with a lot of needy
adventurers, who only put on the red cap because they
want to knock off their neighbour's new beaver — and
appropriate it ! "

Lorraine throws himself down upon a chair — he has
been walking to and fro, with much vehemence — and
brings his oratory to a close.

Lucie has fallen into a trance ; if he hears the
friendly truths, he makes no sign. Lorraine glances
at him, and then breaks open the cover of a newspaper
and begins to read it. As he reads on, his brow frowns

and his eye dilates ; he has come upon some mischief
clearly. From the study of the newspaper, he takes
to studying Lucie. He can do it at his ease ; there is
no one to see, for Lady Laure has retreated before the
political contention. A mixture of annoyance and
anxiety gathers more and more upon Lorraine's face.
Now his eyes are on Lucie, now upon the columns of
the newspaper, now upon the floor; he is revolving
something which is not easily set aside; but in the
midst of it Lady Laure comes quickly back to break
in upon his thoughts.

Lucie," she cries, " I have such bad news from
Clara ; her mother is not well — she is, indeed, quite
ill — and they are on their way home as fast as they
can, only she is so weak they must stop constantly
for several days. And, can you believe it, their maid
has left them in the midst of it, and gone to another
family they fell in with. Isn't it cruel of her ? Now
they can't tell what to do. They are not far from
here — just at the frontier, and I have a great mind to
send Jenkins off at once. She can catch them, I'm sure.
I am so dreadfully grieved for them," she says.

At the sound of her agitated voice, Lucie starts
up. He goes straight to her, and puts his arm round
her. " What have they been doing to you, my child ?"
he asks, in tender accents.

But Lorraine, with the frown still upon his brow,
exclaims, " It's all very well sending off Jenkins ; but
I should like to know how you are going to do without
ber."

Sabine is such a very pleasant maid," says Lady
Laure. Then, after a moment's thought, she adds, " You
see, Claude, I shouldn't miss Jenkins, and I shouldn't
much mind if she stayed with them altogether."

In fact, you want to get rid of her ? "

I shouldn't care about it," says she.

"Why not speak plain English, Laure? it's so
much easier to be understood. Of course, if you don't
want to keep her, this is a good opportunity of sending
her off. As to Sabine, in my estimation, your disagreeable
old Jenkins, in respectability, is worth twenty of her."

Not in point of beauty," puts in Lucie, with eyes
and ears quite alive again.

"Beauty!" says Lorraine. "The little grisette has
not got a shadow of it, with her round eyes, coquettish
nose, and waspish waist."

Lucie bends his eyes upon him. "You have
looked well at her," says he.

Yes, my dear fellow ; but I haven't kissed her."

Oh ! " cries Lady Laure, " pray don't quarrel about
the maids."

We won't call in the seconds this time, Laure,"
says Lorraine, with a laugh. And so the ruffs and the
tiffs of the morning ended.

Lady Laure takes the promptest action in passing
Jenkins over to the ladies in distress. She thinks she

leaves her nothing to complain of ; she furnishes her
with plenty of money, money for travelling, money
more than due for wages. She bestows upon her much
of her wardrobe that she doesn't want, and some that
she does want, — all the perquisites that Jenkins could
have calculated upon for a year to come.

Jenkins, on her side, is nothing loth to get her
release from this " hole of a place," as she has christened
the Villa Grimaldi, since the light of Mr. Burton's
countenance ceased to shine on it. But notwithstanding
this, and in spite of Lady Laure's bounty, she feels the
bitterest irritation at her removal. It might have
been Lady Laure's emphatic assurances — that she
could do quite well without her !

It's just like their gratitude to us poor lady's-maids,
who wears out our lives in sitting up for 'em,
and waiting upon 'em day and night. But if it was
the last word I was going to say, * I hope she'll live
to repent it ! ' "

With this parting benediction, Mrs. Jenkins turns
her back upon the whole concern ; and Mademoiselle
Sabine is promoted to the very light duties of her
vacated post.

Lorraine's comment upon the proceeding is, " I
very much doubt if your father would like the arrangement,
Laure. And if your name were Lorraine, and
not Lucie, it shouldn't have been done ! "

"How could I help it, with my aunt so ill,
Claude ? "

Nonsense ! " says he. " You know you wanted to
get rid of her ! "

Lady Laure gives a little laugh of victory. " It
is done now, Claude," says she ; " and she is so glad
to go, that I don't believe she would have stopped, if
I had gone down on my knees to her."

But Lorraine does not drop the subject. He sits
with his eyes down, sipping his wine. It is after
dinner, and they are all three together.

As for Jenkins," he says, suddenly ; " in my
opinion, Laure, you couldn't have done better than
to follow her example, and join your aunt. The escort
of three ladies is a much better one for you, — than us
two men ; and ladies always get on with their travelling,
the best when left to themselves."

Oh ! " cries Lady Laure.

It is a most cold-blooded proposition. Lady Laure
has stood out well under the Jenkins's admonitions,
but now the quick blood rushes to her face. " I don't
know where they are now," says she, speaking without
looking at him. " I dare say I shall be a great
trouble," she adds, plaintively.

Nobody talks of trouble ! " says Lorraine, sharply ;
and the chance is lost now. The question is, how to
get you comfortably back to England. For my part,
as I never travelled with a woman in my life, I am
likely enough to turn out useless. And besides this,
there's the upset that's everywhere at this moment."

But, you know," replies she, brightening up

with his last words, "in papa's letter this morning,
he has changed his mind. He says, ' You are safe
enough where you are, but no one can answer for what
you may meet with en route'' You see, papa is against
our moving now."

Your father can know nothing about the state of
things here. It would have been better by a good
deal if he had taken you away with him."

Lorraine gets on his feet. " I shall retire," he says.
Are you two going to sit up all night ? "

Lucie has been listening mutely to this discussion.
Now he goes solemnly up to Lorraine, laying his hands
on his shoulders, and, looking up into his face, he
says, with supplicating entreaty in eyes and voice —

Why put water in our wine ? "Why kill delight
before its time ? Do we not know that when we
leave here we shall leave all joy behind us ? "

I hope to Heavens not ! " returns Lorraine. " For
if we do "

Lorraine is sleepy. He is forgetting himself. He
is about to make one of his frank admissions. He is
going to say, "that if the time here all through is
to be the standard of their happiness, he, for one,
is not likely to have a very lively time of it for the
rest of his days ! "

But Lady Laure's silvery echo of Lucie's sombre
cry, breaks in upon his speech, and saves him from
its risk.

Yes, yes ! Have we ever been so happy before ? "

Poor Mr. Mildew ! Well, Lady Laure, at last,

lias forgotten all that.

Lorraine is silent.

The shadow keeps deepening on Lucie's face. He
turns away. " It is Fate ! " he says, sadly. " Fate
brought us to this fair haven. Fate tomorrow will
carry us into the storms again ! "

A spasm, not of regret, but of apprehension, shakes
Lorraine. " And tomorrow," thinks he, " if I lose
sight of you" — and he looks at Lucie — "you'll be
turning up on your barricade, no doubt. Here — you at
least, are safest." And then he turns his eyes and his
mind upon Lady Laure. "And if a row comes here,
what's to be done with you, I should like to know ? "

He stands still silent, his mind a compensating
balance, with Lucie's safety in one scale, and Lady
Laure's in the other. It was natural to him to fall
back upon a compromise.

"We'll wait another fortnight," says he, at last.
And so he sends his two blonde heads, smiling again,
to their slumbers.

But the fortnight never ran out. In three days
came the moment which struck the note for departure.
It came full of hurry and debate; full of strange
necessities and unlooked-for issues; ushered in by
strains of martial music, which echoed round the hills
and shores, making Lady Laure's heart stand still,
and Lorraine rush out to see, and paling Lucie's cheek
with sympathetic thrill.

CHAPTER IV.

HOME TRUTHS AND HOME THRUSTS.

Two merchants, friends of many years, fell out, and another friend
looked on ; and as the quarrel grew, their wrath waxed hotter, and
their words fiercer.

Scoundrel ! Pickpocket ! " cried one.

The other laughed him to scorn. " Prove your words ! " says he ;
and so leaves him.

Why call him a pickpocket ? " remonstrates the friend looking on.
It has no meaning for him. Why not tell him of the sum of money
you once lost by his foolishness ? That would have been true ! "

"Yes," replied the merchant, "that would have been true; but,
angry as I was, I couldn't wound him with that ! "

To sleep upon a matter is the wise man's counsel fora
safe opinion, and the option of a change of mind.

Lorraine, however, the next morning, got up with
his purpose as little changed as his opinion. It is true
they were diametrically opposed, but that only kept
things more firmly in statu quo. As to the stipulated
fortnight, he was as little satisfied with the concession
as ever. Still, he could see nothing for it but
to stick to it. If, indeed, he could have seen his
way out of it, he might have broken faith ; but the
position of things was unchanged, and the more he

considered it, the more the same difficulties rose up to
hamper him and to bring him to a standstill.

Since Lucie's arrival up till now, Lorraine had
remained passive enough. The old questions — " When
do you mean to quit this place ? " " Are we going to
take root here ? " — were altogether dropped.

But now, the idea having once more come up,
backed by the impasse into which things in general
were getting, his mind would not let him subside
asrain.

This morning he sat down to his breakfast in a
perfect cloud of gloom.

He would have been glad, Lucie considered, — to act
with a better grace, but he could not. He is a bad
hand at feigning, — spoilt, not by people, but by the
isolation of circumstances, small contradictions, when
he feels them to be such, go terribly against the grain.

Without a strong will, and without the clef aid
de cette quality, neither wilful nor obstinate, he yet
fretted under the forced marches of life ; and if
too closely pushed, he broke suddenly into resistance
and unlooked-for self-assertion; he became resentful,
implacable, and his habitual negativeness vanished ;
then he realized thoroughly that he was alone in the
world, and he stood manfully by himself, and in this
self-defence he could go to most lengths. But, happily,
the sleeping lion was hard to rouse, — and slept
through a good deal.

Just now, however, — he was only mightily bored

and bothered, but not indignant ; for Lucie was prime
mover in the affair. He even seeks to excuse himself,
and, for want of a better cause, he lays his rueful
mood upon that heavily burdened scapegoat, the
weather.

No one but such a creature of sun and air as you
are, Lucie," says he, " could stand up against this sultry
heat. As for me, it floors me entirely."

I don't feel it either to-day," says Lady Laure.
I thought there was more breeze ; but you look dreadfully
oppressed with it. I am sure your head aches,
dear Claude."

Dear Claude " grasps at the idea of the headache,
and feels at liberty, under its charitable cover, to lie
about half asleep for the rest of the day. But Nature
took a signal revenge, and when the midnight hours
came, he was never more wide awake in his life.

I shall be mad or in a fever, if I go on this way
for a fortnight," says he, tossing about.

It being decreed that Lorraine should die in his
right mind, the test of this crucial fortnight was to be
spared him ; but, Lorraine not being in the confidence
of the Dark-mantled One, he felt as men are strangely
led to do on the eve of some uprooting change, — an
absolute confidence in the unalterable permanence, of
the thing he was so lugubriously looking forward to.

The second day saw him no more resigned than the
first, but the condition had changed. From the moody
he was passing into the mutinous, he was beginning to

grumble. Yet there was no increase of mischief with
it. Let the world say what it will, there are cases
where Silence is neither gold nor silver, but lead, — and
when the beginning of speech is the beginning of hope
for a man, and for his neighbours who have to bear with
him, — and from the moment Lorraine gave free vent
to Lady Laure of his pent-up discontent, the horizon
began to clear.

Such useless folly," says he, " waiting about here
for no earthly reason, and with the certainty of every
hour's delay exposing us more and more to getting
in for some detestable fix or other. And all for the
gratification of a childish whim ! "

You know, Claude," answers she, " I could now
do just as you like, but it pleases Lucie to stay."

Pleases Lucie ! " says he. " Well, I believe that
no one can say I am ever against pleasing Lucie ; but
if I pleased myself just now, I'd transport you to Bellarmine,
and Lucie into the heart of Africa, or any
other equally distant spot — off the high road to his
firebrands."

But you seemed glad when he gave up going to
America, and made up his mind to come here."

Of course I was. How could I tell all about him
before I'd seen him ? "

"And he came here entirely for you, Claude,"
cries she, with deep reproach in her voice.

Yes," exclaims Lorraine ; " and does that make it
the better? Why, America would be the saving of

him now. Women have no brains for anything but
their sentiment. Can't you see, that if there's another
blow-up in Paris, he'll be off at the first shot ? "

Lady Laure starts at the word. " I never thought
of that!" cries she. "0 Claude, promise me —
promise me you will keep him from going ! "

Easier said than done, Laure," is the short reply.

With the morning of the third day, Lorraine has
come greatly round, and he presents himself at the
breakfast-table with a much more shining countenance.

It's no good being as sulky as a bear," thinks he
to himself. " And as dull as a mole," he might have
added. For the mope of the last two days has brought
the penance, of the most desperate ennui.

Lady Laure, when she sees him like his old self,
and hears the ring of good humour in his voice, is not
transported to Bellarmine, but into the seventh heaven
of delight. She has been on thorns lest Lucie should
perceive his friend's evil mood. Lady Laure can bear
all things for herself ; but for Lucie, even the jar of
a rose leaf, afflicts her with the deepest concern.

"I suppose I must go now to give the orders," says
she, — after one of the old serene morning chats for a
good hour.

I tell you what it is, Laure. If I were you," says
Lorraine, "for the few days we have to be here, I'd
abate those household conspiracies, in which you have
been so notoriously engaged every morning since the
departure of that serviceable couple, Burton and

Jenkins. Why can't you let Sabine and the other
girl manage by themselves ? There's no necessity for
you to be bothering yourself with ordering and consulting
for hours together. And as to the gimcracks
you give us to eat, we never had half the dishes under
Burton's reign."

"0 Claude," says she, in a tone of deep disappointment,
"I thought you enjoyed the things;
and I never saw Lucie with half so good an appetite ! "

He's running about on the hills all the day, and
he's hungry; and when a man's hungry, he doesn't want
spicy dishes to tempt his appetite."

But it is no trouble." Then she says, with a sort
of apology in her voice, " I really like it ; it amuses
me. I must do something, you know. When we go
away, I shall miss the housekeeping as much as anything
! "

Your standard of enjoyment is modest, Heaven
knows ! Nor is your compliment exaggerated to your
companions — companion, I may say, since Lucie leaves
to me the honour of entertaining you." Lorraine's
lips smiled, but his eyes were cold. " She is getting
cured of her adoration," thinks he, as he falls silent ;
" and a good thing too."

He took her naive speech the wrong way. There was
still a screw loose in his temper ; it struck upon an
evil chord; it weakened the strongest of Lady Laure's
silken chains. If she ceased to care for him, what
more easy to himself than to give her up ? And what

more likely than a girl's first foolish love-dream dying
out of itself? So he thought.

He might have thought also, when upon the subject,
that if practice is necessary to keep alive the dream
of love, Lady Laure had every excuse for its dying
out of itself ; for, never lavish of love-making, — of late
Lorraine had let it alone altogether.

Lady Laure's blue eyes, with the quick instinct of
the love that still dwells intense as ever in her young
heart, are fixed upon his silent face with a troubled
fear. She sees too well that something is wrong.

You know what I mean, Claude," says she,
softly.

"Clearly," says he, in return, with one of his
cynical shrugs. "But it strikes me that you must
have lots of things to prepare for your journey. This
fortnight, or rather, thank Heaven ! this twelve days,
don't make up a century. I suspect you'll drive
everything off to the last, as women always do."

Indeed, indeed I won't. Sabine has put up most
of my few things already." Jenkins had tolerably
lightened Lady Laure's wardrobe, as we know.

By-the-by, Claude," says Lady Laure again, " I
hope you won't object to my taking Sabine on our
journey home. She will make me just the sort of maid
that suits me, and — and remind me of this — dear —
place." Lady Laure's voice begins to fail her.

There ! Don't begin to cry about it beforehand ! "
says Lorraine ; but there is a better-tempered ring in

VOL. II. E

his voice. " No doubt," he adds, " we shall come in
for a scene at parting."

And you don't object to Sabine ? " asks she.
Sabine ! She seems to have bewitched yon both.
But why ask me ? I'm not lord and master yet. But
if you wish for my opinion, if the French girl is willing
to go with you, you can't do better than secure her.
In fact, I don't see how you could possibly travel with
us, without a maid with you. — Your father's politics,"
says he, with a sound of rebuke in his words, " seem
suddenly to have blinded him to all his other duties."
"He left Jenkins with me when he went," says
Lady Laure, with a blush.

And you got rid of her as quick as you could ! "
cries Lorraine.

Oh, if it was wrong, why didn't you tell me ? "
cries she, in return.

Gracious Heavens ! Didn't I tell you ? " is his
answer.

Lady Laure is overwhelmed with these sudden
recriminations upon her father's conduct and her
own.

Lorraine looks at her blushes and her distress.
It's no good being upset now, Laure," says he.
and it's nut to be laid at your door ; but your father
was to blame. He huddled off to his elections, and
left you here to the charge of Lucie. But what a
farce, he must have known it to be ! For though I
didn't know Lucie as he is, — his father did. I am nut

going to say that a brother's protection is not accepted
as sound and sufficient for a woman even of
your age. If your father were dead, you would have
no other ; and if I stood in Lucie's shoes, and Lucie in
mine, there would be nothing to say. But Lucie ! "

Lorraine throws out his hand and curls his lip,

and gives a volume of significant protest to that .

But Lucie ! "

Lady Laure's tears begin to flow.

"What is to be done," cries Lorraine, angrily,
when a woman can't listen to common sense without
this eternal crying ? It's your only fault, to be sure ;
but it's the greatest nuisance. Your tears are always
ready, and yet you don't use them skilfully. However,
to do this," says he again — " to do this, no doubt, a
woman must either be a born hypocrite or a born
actress, and you are neither the one nor the other.
You can't bamboozle your neighbours. It might be
better all round if you could — not but what I think
I should see through it ; but I don't know." There he
stops.

I fear, Claude," says Lady Laure, as she gets upto
leave the room, " that you must take us as we are :
my father, my brother, and myself. I am afraid there
is no cure for all these new faults now."

As natural to Lady Laure as her tears, is her
native dignity. Now, with the pearly drops still wet
upon her cheek, as she stands before him, at her full
height, with her folded arms, her motionless figure,

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY nr minis

her calm white brow, her large quiet eyes resting upon
his in royal innocence.

Lorraine is won to admiration by all this queenly
gentleness.

Here had he been rating away about the proprieties,
strong in his home truths and home thrusts ;
and there, for all vindication stood she, the loveliest
incarnation of feminine purity, feminine pride, and
feminine forbearance.

Laure," cries Lorraine, " where do you get that
look of yours — half queen, half statue ? No doubt you
were born to reign over some one, but it was over
a very superior mortal, I suspect, to your humble
servant ! "

CHAPTER Y.

ALONE.

Chance and change reign here below ;
Rest and peace we never know.
As the tide flows to and fro,
So do all things come and go.
Now they please us, now deceive us ;
Now they cherish, now they leave us ;
Cheat with pleasure brief aud vain;
Chain us with the lasting pain,
With the still-consuming sorrow
Of a hope that knows no morrow ;
Crush, the fatal burden sending,
Of a memory unending.

Lady Laure was not the one to harbour malice, whatever
the provocation. Nor was she one of those, whose
balance of feeling being upset, it took much time and
coaxing to restore its equilibrium. And besides the
sweet pliancy of her temper, she had none of that self-consciousness
which creates heart-burning and impedes
reconciliation. Like the blue sea beside which they
were living, her spirits took their colouring from the
atmosphere around. If smiles greeted her, she forgot
or she hid her tears ; and when, a few hours later in

this day, Lorraine met her with a kind voice, and the
cheerful speech of, " Well, Laure, have you been
making a martyr of yourself as usual, in order to
transform us two men into gluttons ? " her aggrieved
heart brightened up, and she was able serenely to do
the honours of the dinner-table.

To do him justice, in his short way, generally,
Lorraine hit the right nail on the head ; his defect was
that he hit too hard, and without sufficient regard for
the brittle substances about. In his lecture to Lady
Laure, it is not to be denied that common sense, as he
declared, was at the bottom of it. But even the blunt
weapon of common sense, if we would not wound the
innocent and defenceless, must be used sparingly and
gently, in a world that is crack-brained — quite as
much as commonplace.

But Lorraine's habit was to act straight upon his
impressions — which, taking a broad view, were, indeed,
rarely at fault — whether it was the earl with his
courteous scheming, his obtuseness or his rashness ;
<»r Lucie's good appetite and unfitness for ordinary
trusts. But here, again, his defect was to make no
allowance for the shades and nuances of motives and
actions — for the parti-colourless of everything in
this life. He made too clean a sweep of it, with his
keen observations, his judgment and convictions ; he
relied too absolutely upon his own sagacity. But,
whatever the mischief to others of his qualities, personally
they had the mastering merit of never telling

against himself. The common phrase, that "man's
own self is his worst enemy," — might have been accurately
reversed in his case ; he had no better friend
than Claude Lorraine, — and he was fully aware and
appreciative of this.

If things and people went wrong with him, he
blamed the people and the things, not himself; he
tortured himself with no self-distrust, and few self-reproofs.
He had none of that self dissatisfaction,
which is the bete noire of some worthy men's lives.
And now, though his words had shot a pang through
Lady Laure's tender heart, had brought up the offending
tears, had sent her away with sighs, — he stands
just as much where he did — in his own estimation — as
in her affections ; he is full as ready, with his careless
jests — as she is with her forgiving smiles.

I've been telling our lady housekeeper," says he
to Lucie, " that you don't want spicy dishes, my dear
fellow, to tempt your appetite."

Spicy dishes ! " answers Lucie. " I eat bread ; "
and he takes up his portion.

Lucie is unconscious of the spicy dishes he eats ;
he realizes the staff of life in its strong simplicity,
and gives it the credit of his support.

Come," cries Lorraine, " there's a want of appreciation
in that. Are you aware that we have been supping
and dining of late as if we had had old Savarin himself
as our chef de cuisine ? "

Lucie, who is at this moment consuming a omelette

a la Soubise — Sabine's peculiar handiwork — pushes
away his plate with a gesture of dismay. " And I —
do I eat in this way ? " cries he.

Eat in this way ! Of course you do, and it suits
you admirably. Look at your cheeks."

Lucie drops his arms with his usual action to
express emotion. "I see it all; I understand the
mystery now. This eating — these spicy dishes have
destroyed my brain. I write nothing, and yet here, in
the glorious freedom of these hills, with such a sea and
such a sky, who would not find an inspiration? "

Lucie ! " says Lady Laure, in a deploring voice.
This is a terrible renewal of the morning's trial.

Leave him to me, Laure," says Lorraine, laughing.
"I will make him see the truth. It is not a question
of cutlets, though it might be one of — no cutlets.
It's the result of other things. Now listen to me, Lucie.
The midnight lamp, they say, is the inspiring orb for
you poets ; but here are yon running about after your
Sun-God all the day, and going betimes to your sweet
slumbers at night, as innocent as any turtle-dove both
of plots and poetry — and so much the better too. You're
getting robust instead of consuming yourself to a
shadow. I'd wager a pound you weigh a stone more
than you did when you first came here."

As to the poets," replies Lucie, putting himself
into an attitude of thought ; "let me consider. Well, I
believe you are mistaken. As a rule, they have been fat,
that is to say, where they have been fed. Poets who

have starved have not been fat, because, alas ! food

and fat go together."

Lucie's voice fell into one of his pathetic tones;
his eyes stared imploringly into space ; he sat conjuring
up the shade of a starving poet, and was
afflicted to the heart by the vision.

Lorraine was so comically struck by his friend's
pitiful tableau that, in spite of his own purgatories of
one kind and the other, he gave way to one of his old
fits of hearty laughter.

Why do you laugh ? " asks Lucie. " Why do you
laugh, — while men are starving — and hearts are
breaking ? "

Why do I laugh ? my dear Lucie. Upon my word,
I am not prepared to say ; but if you only knew the
good you've done me by setting this dolorous picture
before me, in your own incomparable way, you would

not grudge it to me, even at the cost of an imaginary

starving poet."

Lucie sits eyeing him mutely; then he gets up,
and at last he goes away — with Lorraine's dark saying
to brood over.

What does he say ? " he murmurs to himself.
What have I done to make him laugh ? How has he
got any good out of it ? He says he does not understand
me. — It is I that do not understand him ! — What
solitary wretches we are ! — alone, always alone, from the
stars above, to the atoms under our feet, — existence
begins, runs its course, — ends alone. Where is the

Companionship of men ? Where is the Company of the
stars ? Each star is millions of miles apart from its
fellow, and so is man from man. In the blank void
before our birth, in the blank void after our death, we
have been nothing to each other, we shall be nothing
to each other ; and yet for a transitory moment in this
Eternity of Nothingness, we tear our wretched hearts to
threads, for human Love and human Hate. Miserable
victims of a relentless rule ! The very stones that lie
side by side on those wild moraines through the ages
of Time, are more akin than human souls ! "

And so, moaning in his spirit, Lucie creeps away
to one of his haunts, where he can hear the waves
rise and fall, and feel the fragrant perfume of the
groves blowing over his head ; and there he falls
asleep, and forgets his dreary nothingness and his
starving poet, and soars in dreams, into the soul's
golden realm of winged hopes and joys.

Lucie's dreams, golden as they were, did not hold
him long, nor had they dissipated the stony weight
upon his heart, which he carried into his slumbers.

The day had still some course to run. The sun was
yet above the mountain ridges, shedding its full beams
over sea and shore, — when, with slow pace and a dejected
air, he leaves the groves. He looks back towards the

villa and up at the hills; but he feels no desire to
return to the one, no impulse to go up-springing and
vaulting by his favourite paths — with his voice in its
high key, waking the mountain echoes, getting his
good appetite, as Lorraine said, and his damask cheeks.
No ; — he is down-hearted this evening. He turns his
back upon it all, and follows the broken sea-line, below
pine-clad cliff and olive forest, wading round creek and
bluff, not thinking, not caring where his steps are
taking him, till, as the sun is setting, the eastern bay
opens full upon him, and he sees the little town lying
deep in shadow, — and, towering high beyond it the red
rocks, still bright and fiery in the parting rays.

He comes at last to a watercourse, with its broad
shingly stretch and its trickling current, and the old
stone bridge that leads across it to the town ; and here
he stops, for under the spread of the plane trees a crowd
is gathered, and out of it comes a tinkling sound of
music and of song. He sits down by the bridge to
listen. The musical sounds fascinate him, and Lucie
has a natural passion which unites him to all open-air
gatherings, whether great or small.

Before long the low notes of the song cease with
the tinkling accompaniment, and the crowd disperses.
Two figures draw near to the bridge ; they are clearly
the musicians who have been performing. A tall old
man, white-bearded and bare-headed, and a young girl.
They pass close by Lucie to cross the bridge ; and he, —
still impelled by his sympathies and his common feeling

for all wandering creatures upon the face of the earth,
gets up and follows them.

With the instinct of their furtive lot, they leave
the broader road, and turn into a narrow path between
a sloping ditch and a wall ; it is full of foul things,
and turns and twists till it brings them at last into
the heart of the main street. It is a poor affair itself,
with its mean, uneven buildings and squalid roofs.

The musicians, who walk always hand-in-hand, the
girl going a little first, seem to draw up as they enter
it, — as if they felt that the eyes of the world were upon
them again.

Before the low irregular inn, which called itself
the hotel, they stop. They make no advance to go
in, however, — and here Lucie gets his first good view
of them.

They are no ordinary-looking couple, this man and
girl. Girl she scarcely is, for she must have seen
twenty years or more ; but she has the marks of extreme
beauty, — and, in spite of her wandering life by
wind and weather, her face is of a marble paleness.
Her straight features have the stillness of a statue ;
her beautiful almond-shaped eyes move as little as the
face they light, — bright, cold, still, they look as if they
should burn — but do not, — like the fixed stars which
irradiate the night. Her dress is evidently the relics of
a costume — a costume that has been patched and
replaced as it could be; her hair, long and fair, hangs
in two plaits, mixed with discoloured coins and bits of

coral ; a faded woollen handkerchief, that once was gay
with embroidered fancies, is tied round the head, low
on the brow, the two ends hanging over one ear ; in
the ears again are the tarnished coins, and around the
neck. The petticoat is of a dull red, and over it a still
duller shaded pelisse of blue, — it encloses the back and
shoulders, and leaves the arms bare ; an apron of wool,
embroidered like the handkerchief, the bodice laced
and open, and a loose red woollen band, worn low upon
the hips, completes the dress ; — but there is still the
addition of a long, thin, two-stringed guitar, or rebah,
slung over her shoulder.

The man on one arm carries a small rug of Eastern
make, but for all effect, — he has but his fine, despairing
face and head, and flowing beard of snow. He draws
round him a miserable capote to hide the wretchedness
beneath it, and stands with his hand upon the girl's
shoulder.

These two take Lucie's heart by storm at once.
Come, my friends," says he, " why do we stand outside
the inn? There is rest and refreshment for us
within."

Then the girl speaks in broken French. She says
they have no money to spend in rest and refreshment
; the people there gave them nothing. They are
going directly to perform again, to buy their supper,
perhaps, " and perhaps not," says she, shaking her
head.

Come in, and we will sup together," says Lucie.
I have money."

He leads the way down the sloping brick passage,
and turns to the right, into one of the rooms. It is a
rough-looking chamber, running backward, large and
low, — you might almost touch the ceiling with your
hand ; and the long lattice window, with its close mullions,
nearly excludes the little light that is left to
come in through it.

I am your friend," says Lucie. " I am an Englishman.
— Tell me, who you are."

The girl points to the man's eyes and to his lips ;
she says that he is blind, and cannot see, that he is a
stranger here, and cannot understand the words they
use. Then she speaks to the old man, and seems to be
interpreting Lucie's friendly offers, and friendly speech.

The man replies in the same tongue to her. It is
not familiar to Lucie's ears, and yet it tells him that
its full swell can belong to no other land than classic
Greece. After the few words, comes a deep sigh of
suffering, and then follows a burst of tears ; the large

drops roll down from the sightless eyes, a torrent

of misery inundating the majesty of the worn and lofty
face.

What is it ? " cries Lucie. " What does he say ? "

He says that for seven years no man living has
called him friend."

Then, for sheer pity, Lucie's eyes fill too. He takes
the rugged hand, and carries it up to them. " Tell
him," he cries, " that these tears are mine."

Lucie presses his hospitality upon the two
wanderers with all the delicacy he might have used to
Royal persons in disguise ; and when the meal is ended,
and the blind old father is cheered with a refilled pipe,

he takes the daughter's hand gently, and says,

Xow, tell me your history."

Lucie is quite right. They have a story to tell. It
is one truly to touch a manly heart. They are Cretan.
Once they lived well and happily. They had vines
and gardens, and a smiling home beside the sea, and
friends and family, and mother and brothers. But a
day of desperation came for wrongs that Cretan could
not bear. Then they fought, the young men and the
old men, and the women, too ; — they did all they could ;
they gave all they had, all their gold, all their store of
jewels. But it was all in vain — all in vain, that her
brothers bled and died, and her betrothed. " Yes,
they killed him too ! " she cries. " He was so young,
so brave ! " And then she weeps her first tear that
night.

It was all in vain ; they were conquered, and the yoke
was heavier than before. Many women and children had

been killed ; but they escaped, she and her mother,

then. Her mother was young and beautiful. She was
not the mother of her brothers. She was " Janoula the
Jessamine Star;" so she was called always. But the
wicked eye of the Bostandjy was upon her. One day
she was going in their boat to a pleasure garden, and
for concealment she covered herself up with a Turkish

robe. But the Bostandjy was going his rounds ; he
saw her and knew her, and came fast into her boat.
He offered her many insults, the vile Muslim ; but she
would not speak one word. Then he cruelly beat her,
and stript off the robe, and called her an insolent
wretch for wearing it, and much more ; and then he
threw her upon the shore. " And so she died ! " cries
the girl again, with more tears.

And then they threatened us," she says, " and for
my sake my father fled. He rowed us far out into the

sea one dark night. ' If we die, we die not in their

hands,' said he. But a ship took us up, going far to
the Avert, and we were put on the shore of a strange
land, far from our poor Crete. We carried away all
we could, but it did not last long ; but while his dear
eyes remained, he worked for both of us. He knew the
way all flowers must be nourished, and vines and orange
trees, and much more. But a year ago he fell blind,
and since then it is, I — must work for both. I cannot
work. I can only sing and dance. Now we have
wandered through many lands, and Heaven knows
how we have lived. But he," cries she, stroking gently
his face, "has no thought now but to breathe once
more his native air, and die."

So they are begging their way to some port where
they may find a ship bound for their beloved Crete.

The girl takes out of her bosom a small bag of
coins. " These are to pay," says she. " I would
rather starve than touch one of them ! "

This finishes the history.

Then the girl flings herself upon the ground, and
lifts her clasped hands. "O Father," cries she —
Father in heaven, come down with Thy holy angels,
and help Thy Christ to conquer the Turks! Come
and deliver us, Father, from their yoke; and,
God, give us — give us liberty ! "

Amen ! " cries Lucie, " Amen ! " It was his first
heart prayer to the Almighty throne for many a day.
The terrible incubus that he sees in priests and altars,
has driven him from his God; but now the strong hope
and the strong despair, the infectious fervour of white-winged
Faith, bring his heart upon its knees.

And if the spirit of prayer is blest, not in what
it asks, but in what it offers, dare we say of this prayer
and this response, that the one is accepted — and the
other rejected ?

Lucie gets up. He takes a hand of each, but he is
dumb in words ; and they are dumb too, for the old man
has fallen asleep, through weariness of feet, and through
weariness of spirit, and the strange burden of a plentiful
meal ; — and the girl is mute in tears, with her head
buried in her father's open hands.

Then Lucie cries aloud, " Let men go forth in the
strength and beauty of their manhood, undaunted to
torture and to death ; but ye tyrants, spare our eyes the
saddest of all sad sights in this world of misery and
crime — the sight of outraged innocence, of murdered

VOL. II. f

innocents, — of old age, and childhood, and weak women,
forlorn and homeless ! "

Lucie sits down, folds his arms, and is lost in
thought. But when the girl moves from her father's
knees, he moves too. He takes out all the money he
has ; but it is not enough, and so he goes to the landlord.
This man knows him well, and gives him what
loose sums he has, and, when his back is turned, calls
him a fool for his pains.

Feed the wolf, and he'll eat you up," says he to
his wife.

Lucie puts the money in the girl's hands. " I have
no good use for it," says he ; " spend it for me, dine
well, sleep well, — this will provide."

Then, when her thanks are speechless, — he shakes
back his beautiful hair, and the ardent eyes grow
cloudless again, — and the radiant joy of succouring the
suffering fills his full heart.

Sing me one song," he says ; " for soon we must
part."

To sing is the hired labour of her life. She puts
her tears and thanks aside, slings her lute, and
begins.

There is no air in her song, and no regular rhythm.
It is but a wail, chanted in one low key, with the
tinkling twang of the guitar in the pauses. Where

she cannot touch hearts with her sorrows, no doubt
she gleans but little from ears that love a lively-strain.


But Lucie sits, rapt and listening. " It is the
dirge of a dying country," murmurs he.

' Poor bird, wandering alone, where fly you ? What

shelter have you ? ' ' There is no shelter for me. I

fly here, and I fly there. When I was a little one, I was
in my own land. I lived joyfully in myrtle bowers ;
I hoped for so many things ; I sang from the morning
till the evening. I had a young lover. I lived in my
little nest. One day, came a cruel hawk and bore him
away ; he put out the sweet light of my heart ; he made
my pretty nest a desert. And now I fly through
strange lands, without a country, without a lover. I
fly where fortune takes me. I flutter my tired wings
where the wind bears me, where the tempest drives me.
I go where all things go, where my dear ones are gone,
where goes the cruel hawk, and the little wandering
birds "

It is the song of Ipsilanti," says she.
It is the song of a bruised heart," sa

heart," says Lucie.

Another hour, and Lucie and the young Cretan
stand under the stars together.
Adieu, Maria ! " cries he.

Adieu, Lucie ! " cries she.

We must meet again," sighs he.

We must meet again," sighs she.

So in man's eternal farewells rises ever the cry,.
We must meet again."

CHAPTER VI.

NO QUARTER.

"What a wild shock is to-day !
Like a climbing act in a play.
All this affright and affray ;
Like a Niagara scene.
"Who shall read what it may mean ?

How came the mischief about ?
What brought the madness out ?
What raised the anarchy shout ?
Have hearts been jarred all the time,
Or is only one peal out of chime ?

Of Nations and Men, is it truth

That the unredeemed sins of their youth

Remain without pity or ruth ;

Must find and requite them at last,

Though they sorrow, strive, kneel, pray, and fast ?

And so they parted — Lucie and this Cretan maiden
parted, never to meet again ; and yet with hearts
renewed; if with a fresh sadness, yet with a fresh
joy ; if with a fresh fear, yet with a fresh hope ;
and though, it is all baseless as a dream, yet it
is not baseless as Lucie's dreary "nothingness," — for
it comes of human love and sympathy, of human tears

and human sighs, and this eternal parting — comes of
a meeting — that has made them akin for ever.

That night Lucie slept a happy sleep under the
pine branches ; his couch, the myrtle and sweet rosemary
; his lullaby, the waves' soft moan ; his abate,
the twittering swallows' earliest notes.

There are no fears for Lucie at the villa, — they
have long been broken in to his erratic ways ; and when
he comes into the breakfast-room with a mighty fire
in his eyes, and all the signs of a grand inspiration,
his rapturous state makes little effect.

In truth, the lovers look still asleep. This morning
the heat has come to a climax ; the air is fiery as a
furnace ; all the night long they have been panting
under the roofs and rooms that Lucie inveighed against.
The pine wood was a much cooler bedchamber ; — and
now they sit languidly, neither eating nor speaking.
Soupire, extend les bras, ferme Veil et s'endort. This,
though the hour is early, is exactly what they look
as if they would be glad to do.

Wake up," cries Lucie, " and listen ! "

Then with all his solemn seriousness, he comes upto
the table, and taking Lady Laure's hand with one
of his own, and laying the other upon Lorraine's
shoulder, he lowers his head, and looking with his
earnest eyes into their faces, he says —

But first tell me — as I do — you hate the Turk ? "

The Turk ! " says Lady Laure, with a little start.

Lorraine, on his side, is past surprise where Lucie's
pity or hate are concerned. He merely lifts his eyes.

A brand-new theme ! " says he, faintly. Then, with
a stretch and a yawn, he adds, "He's a quiet sort
of a gentleman, I've heard say."

"And I've heard," says Lucie, "that he is a
lazy, lying scoundrel ; sensual, ignorant, and base ;
craven to the strong, cruel to the weak; and I have
said that he shall be swept from the earth he has
disgraced and oppressed."

Lorraine opens his eyes with a laugh. " Lucky for
the Turk that you can't back your words with fifty
thousand men ! "

It is the scandal of the world that I cannot."

Well," says Lorraine, yawning again, " there are
scandalous matters to be tilted at, North as well as
South."

And West as well as East," cries Lucie ; " but what
is that ? Must the whole earth lie down to be trampled
on ? "

Not if it can help it, certainly, my dear Lucie,"
says Lorraine, with a smile. " But what is it all about
this morning ? Have you been dreaming that I appeared
in a turban and yellow slippers, and Laure in
the attire of the queen of the Harem ? "

She shall die first ! " cries Lucie. " Death then
would be a sacred duty."

Lady Laure starts again, this time with something
very like alarm. " Oh, don't worry him, Claude ! " she
entreats.

My dear Lucie, I was half asleep before you came
in ; but you — are positively dreaming still. Wake
up ! as you said to us just now, and tell us what's the
matter."

This shall ring in his adder's ears," says Lucie,
desperately ; and he holds up a crumpled bit of paper.

Ah ! now I see," cries Lorraine. " Come, that's a
relief. You have been taking my advice, composing
a poetic bombshell for this poor Turk. Well, he's
brave, whatever you may say ; he'll stand up to receive
it."

Would to Heavens," cries Lucie, " that it could
blow his worthless carcase to atoms ! "

"That's a mild wish," says Lorraine, laughing in
spite of himself.

Mild ! " says Lucie. " What I say is, — No
quarter ! "

No quarter ! " returns Lorraine. " Isn't that
rather severe from the Friend of Humanity ? "

He is outside that sacred Pale," says Lucie ; " for
monsters in human form there is no quarter ! "

It's what I have always said," answers Lorraine ;
it's my principle exactly — my general principle, you
know. I have not yet, for various reasons, applied it
to the Turk. But now for the bombshell. Let's test
its power. Make ready for the shock, Laure ; and now,
Lucie, — fire ! "

Even Lady Laure's sweet, serious face wears a smile ;
but Lucie sees nothing but his own grand wrath.

It's a Cretan war-song," says he.

But the war began and ended in the days when
we were young, my dear fellow."

It will wake again," says Lucie ; " and then "

Then," says Lorraine, with a mock heroic, " your
song shall lead the patriots on."

"Yes," cries Lucie. "It is fit for nothing else;
but it is fit for that, — polish here is out of place."

Lorraine's tongue has the epithet " melodious " on
the tip. But Lady Laure, ever watchful, sees something
dangerous in his eye.

You tantalize me, both of you," says she, quickly.
Lucie, you must read it now."

Lorraine sees her fence fast enough. He nods to
her a promise of good behaviour. " Go ahead, old
fellow ! " says he ; " and suppose me to be the Turk
for the time being ; — it will add fire to your declamation."


Lucie retreats. He plants his back against the
door, as if to keep the foe out, and recites his war-song
with much vehemence.

Fetters, though silk and golden,

No honest soul can brook ;
It loathes the ease beholden
To tyrant's gracious look.
But when his chains the despot strains,

Who crouches 'neath the ban,
Nor stakes his life in Freedom's strife, —
Has lost the name of man.

Then curse the slave, and bless the brave

Who shares the patriot work.
Death thousand-fold more dear we hold

Than life beneath the Turk.

Wake, Crete ! The war-cry rises

From mountain, shore, and glen ;
And though the Turk despises,
We'll show that we are men.
But be ye sure you can endure,

Your life you must not grudge ;
Though fiends of hell their ranks should swell,
No foot must Cretan budge.

The sword is drawn — behind us

The scabbard cast away ;
Nor force nor fraud shall bind us
To bear the Muslim sway.
Pity and fear must disappear ;
No Cretan heart must know
One coward care his life to spare —
One wish to spare the foe.

Nor take nor give we quarter ;
We neither sue nor save ;

Exterminating slaughter,
We deal it, as we brave.
Or we, or they, death's forfeit pay ;

Each heart is trebly steel'd.
Faith, Country, all, now stand or fall

On Freedom's battle-field.
Then curse the slave, and bless the brave

Who shares the patriot work.
Death thousand-fold more dear we hold

Than life beneath the Turk.

I heard a Cretan maiden,

A patriot song she sung.
A cord with jewels laden

Beside her cither hung.

These pearls," said she, " so fair to see,

Were for my bridal day.
These shall the youth who owns my troth

For weapons change away."

Thus sung the maid of Ida

Her sweet heroic lay.
May every good betide her,
Until she sees the day,
When, tyrants quelled and foes expelled,

And war and havoc done,
Her native isle shall gladly smile,
Its freedom surely won !

As he winds up, Lucie waves his hand high in the
air and advances.

Lady Laure's eyes glisten. Her tranquil soul has
ever an echo for the deeper chords of another's, and
Lucie's rude war-song, as he gives it, wakes that echo.

Lucie, it is splendid ! " cries she.

Not a bad jingle," says Lorraine. " Do you remember,
Lucie, your line — or, rather, the line which
was not yours ? It has always stuck in my ears :
Vita que Moons, carmine Trojan cadit.' So shall
the Turk fall before your song, eh ? — grand, too, was
the Head's sardonic smile, ' That line is not yours,
sir ! ' Do you remember ? — I wonder what's become
of that boy. Now he was a born poet, if you like —
strung off his verses as easily as we strung up the
sausages! Yet, probably, he's never set down a line
since."

Perhaps Lorraine has no admiring echo of his own
to give to Lucie's jingle, that he so wanders back into

the past. Perhaps, too, Lady Laure is jealous for
Lucie's laurels, for she says again —

I think it is quite splendid."

Women," says Lorraine, " are proverbially bloodthirsty.
And you, I see, Laure, are no exception to
the rule."

Bloodthirsty, Claude ! " says she.

If you are not bloodthirsty, what do you mean
by ' splendid ' ? What, gentle lady, do you understand
by ' exterminating slaughter ' ? "

It was the whole song," says she, colouring up to
her fair brows.

Lorraine sits with his eyes on the ground, drumming
on the table after his wonted fashion. Then he
looks up, with a laugh in his eyes and on his lips.

Well, here's my verse. If Lucie's are splendid,
mine shall be called sublime, for I go miles beyond
him. Now, Lucie, what do you say to this as a variation
for your chorus of death? It's to rhyme with
your * patriot work ' —

a And every Cretan shall be eaten
Who doesn't eat a Turk !

What do you think of that, Laure ? "

In the midst of the heroics, Lady Laure is again

compelled to laugh. " I call it nonsense," says she.
Safe nonsense, Laure," returns he, " at any rate."
But Lucie stands eyeing his friend with his usual

silent protest, more expressive than many words.

Come and have some breakfast," says Lady Laure,
going up to him and leading him to the table.

Lucie says nothing, but sits down always with the
same wounded look. He breaks his long roll in half
and begins to eat it, ravenously, as usual.

Lorraine used to say, this gave him a cold shudder
to see. Now, — whether he has a shudder or not, or
whether he wishes to atone, — he gets up and puts the
other matters of the breakfast-table within Lucie's reach.

For pity's sake, take something with that savage
stick of bread, Lucie."

Lucie repeats the word " Pity," by way of answer.

Lorraine takes it home. " Well, you haven't much
pity on the Turk, anyhow," says he. "But stick to
him. It's safer to break a lance there than nearer
home." Unconsciously, Lorraine drops his jesting
tone. " Take an old soldier's advice, Lucie : give the
friends of Liberty your songs and your good wishes,
but meddle no further; leave them to fight it out
between them. It's hard to say who's right and who's
wrong; whether it's good to have one master, or a
million. On the whole, I'm in favour of one."

Lucie's hunger and anger — though the latter word
ill describes either his tender reproach — or his grand
wrath — are subsiding together; and he looks at the
offending one with a patient compassion.

There is something," says he, " in the personality
of the soldier, which puts him naturally on the side of
tyrannic rule."

Thank you," returns Lorraine ; " though I don't
accept the compliment without a qualification. But
take it the other way ; supposing we naturally sided
against rule, tyrannic or otherwise, — with our powder
dry, — there would soon be an end to a quiet life here
below, I think you'll admit."

"No fear of your upsetting your quiet life," says
Lucie, shaking his head dismally to and fro. "No
fear for a trade, that provides thousands with the bread
of indolence, bought and sold for a price."

Something of an indignant flash comes into Lorraine's
eyes. " Every soldier," says he, decidedly, " is a
mercenary, in the sense that he lives by his profession,
and fights ostensibly for his country, but actually — for
the Government that pays him. And as to idleness, I
grant you there's a deal of loafing. It's not to be
helped. What's a garrison to do when it's not in
siege, but to stand about? But you'll remember,
perhaps, that occasionally we come in for your exterminating
slaughter, — and that it's hot work while it
lasts, and deserves a rest between."

Hot work ! " repeats Lucie, making small shot
out of the middle of his stick of bread, and flinging
them furiously right and left. " Hot work ! " he cries ;
mowing down men and brothers to order ! "

Meantime, you've put my eye out ! " says Lorraine,
rubbing the injured organ.

Lucie looks up in astonishment.

"It is your bread pellets, Lucie," says Laure.
You have thrown one into poor Claude's eye !

My Claude, my poor Claude ! " cries Lucie,
springing up, and peering into the wounded eye.

Lorraine laughs, and makes a blinking attempt to
open it.

"Why, why," cries Lucie, piteously — "why will
you talk of these murderous assassins in the midst of
a peaceful meal ? "

Why, indeed, will you ? " cries Lorraine, in his
turn, and falls into another fit of laughter.

Lucie stands looking at him with a distracted face ;
the tear-drops meanwhile stealing down that most
unaccustomed channel, Lorraine's manly cheek.

Lucie takes out his handkerchief, and silently sops
them up, stroking the closed lid between whiles, with
a tender remorse.

Never mind, old fellow ! " says Lorraine, affectionately.
"You have not put my eye out this time.
You may be satisfied that my only blindness, for the
present, consists in my being unable to see the merits
of your modern Goddess of Liberty. In this darkness
you will have to leave me. It is all my mercenary
soul deserves. But here is Laure. She will be your
willing disciple. See how you made her blue eyes
glisten with your heroics! She is ready, at a word,
to become your 'Maid of Ida,' in any cause you
please."

Lucie stretches across to Lady Laure, and takes
her hand caressingly. " Love Liberty, my child ! "
says he. " Before now, women have died for Liberty ; a

holier death than Bela Sabe's, who died for one man's
love."

Lorraine interposes quickly. He speaks with a
careless tone, and yet his face is grave. " Fine words,
my dear Lucie ; fit for the enthusiasm of Youth. Now
listen, you and Laure, to the wisdom of Age. Life is
better than death, and whatever the cause, — it's a good
deal better to live for it — than to die for it."

As Lorraine comes down upon the " die for it," the
till then motionless air throbs to a flash of sound,
in which the deep beat of the drums mingled with the
blast of the far-blowing horns — a thrilling, war-like
melody, that shook the hills, fit to inspire a conquering
army at the turning-point of victory.

Lorraine is up at the first note. " What's this ? "
he cries. And he goes off to get his answer.

It has come, Laure," says Lucie, and the treble of
his voice sinks to the key of awe. For a moment he
stands bewildered with this new thing, and then follows
Lorraine, with his short cut over the myrtle hedges.

But Lady Laure, seized with fright at she knows
not what, flies trembling after him, crying, " Lucie I
Lucie ! "

There is a sound of pain in her voice that he cannot
hear in vain. If he would be stony-hearted, Lucie
must be beyond the reach of touch, sight, and hearing.

What does it all mean ? " cries she.

He turns, and folds her in his arms. His eyes
flash. His heart beats. " Be brave," he cries. " Fear

not. It is the echo of the great struggle between
despotism and despair ; between the oppressed and the
oppressors ! Let us go forth and meet it."

"Oh no, no!" cries Lady Laure, clinging to
him. Then, with the low cry of a greater fear, she
adds, " Claude, Claude ! What will become of
him?"

He is safe," says Lucie. " Who will touch him ?
When you hear the deadly roll of the musketry, it is
the people only that will bleed."

These fear-inspiring words fill her with a new
terror, and with a sudden remorse. " Why, why did
we resist him ? " she moans. " Why have we stayed
here till now ? "

It was our destiny," says he ; and one of his pale
shivers runs through him. " Before my eyes have
been images of blood, white faces with shut lids, and
terrible sights everywhere." He shivers again, till his
face grows white and death-like. — " I thought it was
a remembrance ; but Laure it was a prediction."

Lady Laure looks at him with horror, when of a
sudden comes another shock.

The echoing strains break off, not with the proper
musical climax and finish, but sharp and short, in the
midst of the melody, leaving upon the ear a wrenching
void — of all effects of sound the most startling and the
most apprehensive.

Overcome by the tension of the whole affair, Lady
Laure sits down on the path beside the myrtle hedges,
VOL. II. G

and, hiding her face in her hands, awaits what shock is
to come next.

But the next move comes with a surprise, but with
no shock ; for far and wide a shout goes up — a shout
of human voices — not in pain or rage, but with cries
of joy and triumph, such as these mountains have
never echoed back before.

Again and again resound these signs of good will
and gladness, unmistakable in their meaning ; and Lady
Laure, with a sigh of inexpressible relief, looks up at
her brother beside her, and warmly clasps his hand.

Lucie ! " cries she. " He is safe ! I see it all.
It is a holiday. It is nothing. How could we be so
foolish as to fancy such dreadful things ? "

Keep still, my child," says he, listening intently.
There is more to come."

But Lucie listened in vain ; more did not come ; —
and though the slow-moving moments became anxious
again, as they tardily dragged out, and every stir in
the air was charged with a portentous meaning, yet
these shocks from the outside were not renewed ; and
the martial sounds, and the people's shouts, returned
no more.

In another hour, Lorraine walks in, with a sound
skin, but with something of Lucie's fire in his eyes.
'Tis two battalions of soldiers from over the

border," says he. " They came in for one side, but they'll
stop on the other. The men here went out, unarmed, to
meet them ; but as soon as the troops saw the bust of
their own king, which the townspeople were bearing in
front as a flag of truce, a movement ran along the lines ;
it was impossible to turn it. Up went the bayonets
in a salute, and then grounded. And then came a
general melee ; you might have heard the shouts. Some
shed tears, others embraced, the people threw up their
hats, the soldiers cried ' Evviva ! ' I never saw anything
finer. The business of that scamp over there is settled.
He had better make the best of his way off; there's
nothing else left for him to do. And as to you, Laure,
if you mean to decamp in safety, like that gentleman
yonder, you had also better lose no time, for, take my
word for it, all Europe is astir ! "

Lady Laure is breathless. "Claude," cries she,
with her heart beating enough to stop her voice, " we
will go to-day."

Festina lente," says he. "That's the motto of a
great-grandmother of mine who was an Englishwoman.
I desire to regulate our present movements on this
principle; but tomorrow— can you be ready by tomorrow?"


Oh yes, " says she. " I am ready now. I never
was so frightened in my life. I thought you might
be killed, you know."

Well, I didn't know it," says he. Then he throws

himself upon a sofa. " But I do know — that I am dead
tired and hungry."

Of course you are !" exclaims Lady Laure. " How
dreadful ! Why, you went away in the middle of your
breakfast. "

Yes," says Lorraine, " I remember now, it was
Lucie's war-song that spoilt my breakfast."

CHAPTER VII.

Lucre SETS HIMSELF TO SAVE THE WOULD.

Of all the acts of a man's life, his marriage does least concern
other people; yet, of all the actions of our life, 'tis most meddled
with by other people." — Selden.

Lucie was not within hearing of Lorraine's last compliment
to his heroic verse, for, whilst the others are
talking, he goes off stealthily, like a boy slipping ont
of school. He creeps upstairs to his room, takes a small
pistol out of his travelling-case, looks to the loading, —
pockets it, and then brings out of a corner, a swordstick.
Thus armed, he buttons up his coat, pulls his
hat over his eyes in true conspirator fashion, and goes
down the stairs.

Men will be men. Here is Lorraine, the man of
discipline and order, off his feet, allowing the soldier
to have feelings and to act upon them, and carried
along with a rising against a Reigning House. And
here is Lucie, who abhors Lorraine's red trade and his
bayonets, — arming himself to the teeth. He, however,
is still dans son droit, since he would disarm nobody, —
but the soldier himself.

II. •*-

Lucie, to conceal himself from certain eyes, passes
out by the servant's offices. Here he meets Mademoiselle
Sabine. She seems not to have shared the
general apprehension ; she is singing with much spirit,
as she washes up her spoons —

Vivandiere du Regiment,

C'est Caton, qu'on me nomme ;
Je vends, je donne, je bois garment,

Mon vin et mon rozomme.
Tin tin, tin tin, tin tin, tin tin,
Soldats ! voila Caton ! "

Since the affair of the petit marmot, they have had
more to say to each other than ever. When she sees
Lucie, she stops her song.

Ah ! que c'est beau la bas ! " cries she. " J'aime
les militaires moi ! "

Lucie looks at her with a wandering eye. His
mind is far off — fore-acting possibly, some grand
episode in Freedom's drama.

Mademoiselle Sabine is not accustomed to be
ignored; she tosses her head, and sings louder than
before —

Tin tin, tin tin, tin tin, tin tin,
Soldats ! voila Caton ! "

Lucie stops short up, and stares at her. "Le

grand Pan est mort ! " cries he, and he flashes the thin
blade from his stick across her eyes.

Mademoiselle Sabine retreats with a shriek.

Bourgeois terror ! " mutters Lucie, passing like
a shot through the door.

Plus fou que jamais ! " says Mademoiselle Sabine
to Maddelena.

Lucie takes the road to the town. All is movement
along it to-day. The men go to and fro in troops of
tens and twenties ; they are in festa dress, but they
wear their jackets on their backs, not slung, as commonly,
in graceful fashion over one shoulder; their
belts and sashes, too, are girt tight, and there is no
concealment about the knives that stick in them.

The women's heads are tied up in their gaudiest
cotton kerchiefs; but these weaker, or rather these
more timid ones, are chiefly clustered by the rocky
way up to the village, and at the openings of the
mountain mule-tracks, ready for a stampede, should
matters take a warlike turn again.

As he nears the town, bodies of Mademoiselle
Sabine's fancy appear, parading here and there, and the
townspeople are walking about, singing Italian hymns
of liberty.

Lucie's eyes flash fire under the broad brim of
his hat ; he drives his hands into his pockets, and
bears his slight figure firmly through the people. He
is in the strife of principles again ; his blood warms ;
he is another man ; he is his other self. The dreams,
the tears, the songs of yesterday, are far back into the
ages ; the shivering fancies, the dreary nothingness,
the ideal distractions of nameless woes, have vanished
in this momentary contact with his active desperation.

He makes straight for the post-office. Two letters

with the Paris post-mark, and two from England. One
bears on the face of it, that it is from his father, with
Bellarmine," in good old usage, in the corner.

He has the dirty lobby of the office to himself, yet
he looks round him cautiously ; then he crushes his
English correspondence into his breast, and tears open
the letters from Paris.

He holds both sheets in his hands. They tremble
as he unfolds, first one and then the other. He seems
too eager to learn their contents, to know which to
take first.

At last his eyes are riveted ; he does not need to
go further for matter of tremendous concern to him.

Mon ami, c'est impossible de le douter, reassembled
nous trains, ce Bilboquet avec sa lyre, tu le connais,
et ses creatures, Eh bien ! on chasse nos braves Montagnards.
Et pour larmes ; crois-moi, larmes obiit
toujours aux ordres des general, ennemis secrets
de la Publique — ames damned de la Monarchie!
Entends tu bien ce que je dis ? — On a crie — ' Chargez
moi cette canaille ! ' — Eh bien — On a rendu * Du pain,
ou du plomb.' — C'est la repose du desespoir ! Enfin,
mon Lucie, on bat le rappel, et le jour viendra, — deja
il s'approche, quand la contre-revolution se baignera
dans le sang du peuple ! "

Victims ; martyrs ; traitors ! " groans Lucie, ashe
reads these words of fire; and then he stamps his
feet with his face all aflame.

Suddenly he breaks into one of his long moans,

And what am I, here in this fool's paradise, eating,

sleeping, growing fat ? "

He is wrung with the scorn of his self-contempt,
and into his eyes and mouth comes that look of indescribable
anguish, which no other eyes and mouth
ever did express. The eyes weep without tears; the
mouth is set, rigid and open, showing the pearly teeth
from end to end ; the lips stretch in two equal lines ;
it is the face of a frantic angel.

As he stands thus a soldier looks in. " Che cosa
si sente ? " " What is the matter with you ? " says he ;
but he does not stop for a reply, and follows away fast
after the call of his comrades.

The man's dress, more than his voice, brings Lucie
to himself. He reads no more of his letters, but,
carrying them still grasped in his hand, he goes out of
the archway, and takes the road he has come in by.

There is a sort of wild despair about him that forces
the people to take notice of him. But they let him
go his way ; they are not the people to interfere ; they
might not even meddle, if his way were to destruction.
Their own affairs, are their only affairs, and to-day
they have had a very notable affair of their own.

For has there not been a revolution ? Every one in
the town will say " Yes ; " but they probably would not
tell you, unless you asked them. They do not pose
for public observation ; in fact, their revolution would

require to be stated, for there are no bloody barricades.
These people are not Firebrands, and they have not the
gift of assuming that character.

And yet their martyrdoms have been many, their
bondage brutal. A merciless iniquity has drawn out
of their crushed lives, without a thought, without a
care, — the pampered luxuries of its crowned and idle
wickedness ! — but it has made of them neither cowards
nor monsters, for their blood belongs veritably — to
that Land which has been, by turns, — dead and alive,
awake and asleep, — but Heroic always.

Lucie to-day forgets his zigzag ramblings ; he
keeps to the highway, by the broad sward under the
olives, and the road that skirts the pine forest, and up
the bare rise of the sudden steep. Now he rounds a
bold bluff, with the escaped road in mid-air, and a
dizzy fall below, with nothing to bound its brink buta
few rough-hewn stones, that stand of their own weight.

Before him the sea is everywhere — a blue lake close
in beneath, and in the wide-spreading expanse a vast
watery maze. But of the earth, his eye catches nothing
save the mounting precipice that pierces the sky, and
the tops of the recumbent trees below; all else, the
sharp foreland of this mountain buttress hides from
view.

Here Lucie stops, for here he enters upon the

Royalty of that other power, which he follows blindly.
Here is Nature's solitude, whose still voice brings him
ever into subjection. Now it speaks to him once again,
in its limitless tones, — of rest, and calm, and thought.

He pushes off his hat, and the shimmer of the sunbeams
are caught like a prism in his bright, wild hair.
It is a lovely face and head. Those who beheld it
never wearied of the cry of its beauty ! Those who
encountered the appeal of its unearthly pathos, gave
unbidden, the reply, " Thou canst be judged by an unearthly
Judge alone."

Upon the rude wall Lucie lays his hand, and
with a steady gaze looks down the bewildering fall.
His physical nerves give him no warnings ; his mind
may tremble to a touch like a sensitive plant, but his
body approaches danger with the placidity of a child.
The wall itself he considers next ; there is something
in its structure which attracts him. He pushes one
stone, and then another and another, but they are firm
as the rock against his efforts, and then he murmurs
aloud the moral it makes to his mind.

"Formless and rude, but true — true to each other,
thus they stand. Below yawns the abyss ; yet there is
no fear ; thus — thus the world is saved ! Ah me ! When
shall we save the world ? — When shall it avail the rough
sons of want and work to stand true, and breast together
the howling waves of tyranny ? When shall the
ignorant and destitute, stand by the bottomless pits dug
by the smooth hands of wealth and power, — and not be

engulfed therein ? Will it be ever so ? " cries Lucie ;

and, leaning full against the perilous support, he

looks, with eyes that are only wistful now, far over
the sea.

As he stands, all unanswered, his sight grows
fascinated with the grand monotony that fills it ; and so
gazing, a ray of melancholy comfort dawns upon him, —
for, as many have found to their relief in the time of
trouble, there is a mighty sympathy between grieving
hearts, and the great heaving bosom of the Ocean. The
stable earth has no such depths of consolation as the
salt waves hold for the salt tears of sorrow-laden souls !
In Lucie's face remains, the ineffable sadness, but the
rage and the shame are gone.

It is not too late to die with them," says he, and,
though despair begets the thought, yet the drooping
head is lifted, the folded arms are raised, and he turns
to walk on, with an air that says, " Prepared for any fate."

As he moves, he drops his letters from his hand.
He picks them up, tenderly brushing off the dust.
The action reminds him of those other two, as yet unopened
in his pocket.

He takes them out listlessly; they can have
nothing for him ; only the level words he knows beforehand.
And so he breaks the seals. And yet, if he had
been Seer as well as poet, his hands might well have
trembled once again ; — once more his heart might have
ached ; once more his spirit might have quailed — before
the fate involved therein.

But Lucie sees no further than the pages before
him.

He takes his father's letter first. The writing is
shaky and irregular ; nothing of the earl's usual firm
and flowing characters.

You will wonder, my dear Lucie," he writes, " at
the purport of this letter. It is not in many things
what I could have wished ; but Necessity is a hard
taskmaster, as we have all to own ; and provided in the
main we can do what is best, the rest must be left.
Since I last wrote to Laure, now ten days ago, matters
here at home have begun to assume a most threatening
aspect. God knows, if this goes on, what we shall
call our own twelve months hence. Chartism is rife,
and discontent widely spread; and no lack of demagogues
to poison the public mind and stir up the
ignorant right and left. Thank God, the bulk of the
country is loyal, and every loyal Englishman will do
his duty.

But it would be idle to underrate the danger of
the situation. On the Continent, things are drifting
from bad to worse. In Paris, the Revolution promises
to burst out in a still blacker phase than before.

Your friends! B and B and B I don't

fill up the blanks, but most significant is the * B, B,
B,' of their initial letters; — these restless plotters
are doing everything in their miserable power to
destroy the last hope of their distracted country, and
to make it impossible for any government to stand

there for the next three generations. In fact, such is
the state of almost every country, that I cannot counsel
you to attempt to bring Laure back to England,
through such a line of hornets' nests ; and even if she
were here, I could only wish she were somewhere else, —
well and happy. For here there is nothing to cheer
her at present, — only anxious faces and harassing discussions.


"And this leads me to the important matter of
my letter. It was my hope and intention that
Laure's marriage should take place this summer at
Bellarmine, with everything that could set off so
festive an event. But as things are, it could not be
done. The times are out of joint, my dear Lucie, for
such happy celebrations in our part of the world ; and
I am myself strangely out of sorts too. Yet I have a
dread, more than I can express to you, of delaying this
most desirable marriage. Who can say what delay
may not bring forth ? Next year, those who live to
see it, may witness things worse, not better. For
faction has crossed the Channel, and, strange as it
sounds, Irish property now is more secure than our
own hereditary lands. Primogeniture is one of the
delectable cries, against the pillars that are to be
razed to the ground. Believe me that delay may be
fatal to Laure's welfare and happiness. Therefore I
say there must be no delay ; this marriage must be
hastened by every available means. God knows, if I
had the power, I would return to you all, at once ; but

that power I have not at present ; as I told you above,
I am strangely out of sorts. Therefore to you, my dear
son, I leave this sacred duty to your sister. See that
it is fulfilled. I leave you to take my place in this,
as, in the end, you will have to fill my place in
all else.

There must be a Catholic ceremony first ; this can
safely be trusted in the hands of the Abate Faa di
Bruno, who, no doubt, is returned ere this to his cure.
I have not many sympathies with the man, but your
sister is friendly with him, and, being of education and
high birth, I believe we may trust his honesty and
judgment in the necessary preliminaries and conduct
of the matter. The Protestant ceremony can take place
at the first embassy they come to when they can travel
with security ; but the first ceremony legalizes the tie
to all intents and purposes.

Tell Lorraine and Laure I shall be glad if I am
able to write each of them a separate letter ; but I may
not be equal to it ; the effort of writing so far has
caused me some exhaustion. I hope now that in all
this I have made myself clear ; but I write somehow
with extreme difficulty. I have been in several ways
not myself lately, as I told you ; in fact, last night
I had a sort of fainting fit, which left me for some
hours weak and partially unconscious. But Tompkins
to-day has brought me round ; and, please God we tide
over our present straits, I hope I may shortly be right
again, and ready with a ringing welcome and a

glorious home-coming to our dear bride and bridegroom.


I must not close this letter without speaking of
Arthur Aboyne. His conduct has been noble. He
came here last week to say farewell, but seeing my
worry and vexations, he offered to stay if he could be
of any use. I saw what it cost him to give up his
quixotic notion of self-banishment, and although, no
doubt, he gains by this concession to friendship, I
don't the less value the motives which led to it. He
has acted as a son to me. When you meet him treat
him as a brother.

Your affectionate father,

Bellarmine.

Pes. — God bless you all ! Aboyne's seat is safely
filled up."

Lucie's second letter is from Aboyne himself. It
also begins with the remark that its contents will
create surprise.

I wish, indeed," he writes, " that surprise were the
only emotion I have to give you. My news is rot
good, and, but for it, I should already have left England.
That I had not done so will always be a satisfaction
to me, as I have, I am glad to say, been able to
be of some use to your father.

"When I came to Bellarmine last week, I was
painfully struck with the change in his appearance
and spirits; he had lost all his genial temper; he

was nervous and absent, by turns depressed and
excited. Burton said he believed his master was
ill, yet would not own to it. At dinner one day,
he took nothing but a biscuit and a glass of wine.
His mind was continually occupied with public
affairs, of which he took the most deplorable view.
He spoke also upon another subject, of which I am
incapable of saying many words. He says that he has
written to you at great length, and has enlarged fully
upon his wishes, and the step he considers the most
necessary to be taken at once. He has conjured me to
urge you to follow his wishes without delay. He says
often, * If I can only live to see this accomplished ! '
It is hard for a man to say ' God grant ! ' to an event
that must break his life in half; but we may, in this
life, as well take the whole Cross as the half. But I
can say no more than I have, except that, knowing your
father's wishes, you know how to comply with them.

During the conversation in which he communicated
all this to me, your father was much
agitated, and went early to bed. In the middle of
the night, he rang his bell, but before Burton could
get to him, he had fainted. Tomkins, the house
surgeon, owing to the illness of one of the servants,
happened fortunately to be sleeping here, and was at
hand at once with his remedies. He wished, however,
immediately to get advice from London. But the earl
would not hear of it ; he declared his full confidence
in Tomkins, and spoke lightly of this particular attack,
VOL. II. H

though he admitted that he was out of health, no
doubt. But Tomkins, I can see, is very apprehensive
about the case.

The earl will not entertain the idea of the return
of yourself and Lady Laure to England at present. It
is greatly to be regretted that this should be impossible
; but, as far as I am able, you may rely upon
my fulfilling your duties to your father, in your absence.
And if I may be permitted to do so, let me ask
you to say this to Lady Laure from me.

Always yours,

"A. Aboyne."

After going through these letters, occasionally
missing the thread, and then going back to master it,
Lucie doubles them up, with none of the anxiety in his
face that might have been expected.

First, as to his father's health; with the picture
before him of the hale and hearty face and figure,
and the jovial smile and voice which had greeted
him, but a few short weeks before, with such robust
cheer as they passed at a gallop not far from this
very spot on this mountain roadway, — Lucie thinks
lightly enough of the fainting fit, and the dinner
off a glass of wine and a biscuit !

And as for the earl's political woes and worries and
pessimist prophecies, they make still less impression.
Lucie has heard them all through before, and has said
in his heart, " The sooner he realizes his prophecies, the

better it will be for himself and the rest of the world ;
and when that time comes he'll be surprised to see
that it has not brought everything to an end after

all ! " And Lucie's heaviest sigh now is that, that

time is, alas ! still so far off.

And as to Arthur Aboyne's modest moan over his
modest passion for Lady Laure, it was, in fact, all
through so modest, — that it moved no one but himself.
And his devotion to his guardian was of such longstanding,
and so unpretending, that this likewise came
to be considered of very little account.

But his father's desire for his sister's immediate
marriage ; — this is, indeed, matter of close concern — of
keen interest to him. It is a bright light in the midst
of a great darkness. It even covers his own desperate
distresses, for, though he is, indeed, as far as ever from
seeing a way out of their troubles for his friends, he
sees his own way clear enough now — into sharing them
with them.

But for this fortunate proposal of his father's, what
could he have done with Laure ? Now all difficulty
is over. Lorraine will take her safely out of his

hands but for this, he might have been planted on

the horns of a dilemma, from which he could only
have extricated himself with pain either way. Yes,
he is spared a great pang.

And Lady Laure is spared a great pang, too ; for
which way Lucie would have taken, — does not admit of
a doubt. As yet, he had not had time to think ; only
n. -j-

to feel agony, remorse, desperation. But before this
time tomorrow the critical moment will have come —
the rumblings of the distant storm will have sounded
again and again in his ears ; and Lucie knows that the
call will be too strong for him to withstand.

He knows — that he will cast fraternal duty to the
winds, at the call of that other duty which he owes to
the great Brotherhood of man ; — for him the Power
Supreme ; — the power, he holds superior to all bonds of
friendship, all ties of blood, all personal feelings ; the
duty which justifies the cutting of all love, the breaking
of all vows, the abandoning of all obligations, the
sacrifice of all claims !

Therefore Lucie can see before his eyes, in these
letters from England, only a great deliverance. And
with the inscrutable rebound of one thing against another,
which the human mind is the prey to — although the
situation is unchanged which had well-nigh crazed his
brain an hour ago — yet his spirits rise, his heart beats
free, his brow relaxes, and he throws back his hair with
the old graceful fling, as if he was but just comedown
from dreaming away the morning, in the woods
and hills.

As in this improved plight he goes lightly forward,,
he hears a friendly, " Burn giorno ! " and confronts the
comely countenance of Don Giobbe.

Don Giobbe is truly indeed as a Satyr to Hyperion,
compared to the Abate Faa di Bruno. But there is not
much amiss with him in the main. Lorraine was not far

wrong when he called him " a good little fellow ! " He
is a sociable soul, and loves to make acquaintance with
the few straggling foreigners who are to be found in
his neighbourhood. He is well stored with gossip of
past days in other parts. Lombardy was his birthplace.
He had seen a good deal of life there when he
was young. He has also a fund of local matters ; he
knows all the rights and the wrongs of every one, high
and low, and has some dreadful stories to whisper about
a certain palace not far off, — and its owners! He is
very much of a republican at heart, and has all the
old traditions, which have led his frocked brethren to
fight valiantly in the ranks of Freedom.

Moreover, he has much hospitality, and he invites
his friends, with great pride, to visit him in his homely,
one-storied dwelling across the hills. It stands hard
by a small whitewashed church with a slim campanile ;
no other house within hail. A smiling little nook ; if
lonely, — at once shady and sunny ; — just where the
mountain-side takes a sharp dip into a little circular
vale, as if it had been scooped out.

He takes his visitors round his vines and his olives,
and shows them the glories of his bee-house ; when he
unlocks this, and displays the rich combs, thick with
yellow honey, hanging close-packed between the narrow
spines, he rubs his fat hands, and boasts that before
winter he shall make a good price of his luscious
stores.

Then you will be asked to walk into the parlour.

The parlour is also his sleeping-room. You will be likely
not to notice the high crib which, serves as a bed, filling
a recess behind the door. The two lattice windows look
east and west, and are shaded with vine creepers. The
gem of the room is an old walnut cabinet, quaintly
fretted. From this he takes out some soiled papers,
tied with a bit of black ribbon ; these are the records
of his various cures, and testimonials of his services.
He sets great value by tm-se public documents, for
they are mostly printed ; but to you they seem nothing
but a list of names and numbers.

Before you leave him you must partake of the cold
collation he sets before you. It consists of thin bits
of stale bread, neither black nor white, but dirty yellow,
flavoured with something of coriander seed; between
the bread you will have sliced salam ; and possibly a
few uncooked tomatoes, sprinkled with salt ; these are
to be washed down with wine, of home manufacture.
Don Giobbe makes no excuses ; he thinks it is a
repast fit to set before a king.

Of the other two rooms, one is the kitchen, and in
the other lodges his sister. It is she who keeps the
house and does the work of it. She does not venture
beyond the threshold of the parlour, except when
waiting upon the visitors. This she does with a modest
face and lowered eyes, — and if by chance you speak
to her, as if she were her brother's equal, she is
greatly embarrassed.

In return for this hospitality, Don Giobbe claims

a chat whenever he meets you, and he is open to dine
with you as often as you like — not that he had ever
got an invitation to the Villa Grimaldi. If you had
heard his private opinion of the earl, it would not have
been complimentary.

But Lucie and Lorraine are on friendly and speaking
terms with him ; and Lucie, in his wanderings,
has often put up at the priest's rustic quarters, and
shared his horticultural labours, pottered with him
about the bees and the vines, and hoed the falsify and
eaten it also, and found the sour draughts of the home
manufacture an excellent beverage.

Lucie's natural hatred of the class — a hatred bred
of many things, and based on quite different grounds
to the earl's equally strong dislike — was altogether
disarmed by the priest's liberal politics and open and
unvarnished manners, — which he took to be the signs
of a frank and honest soul ; and Lorraine, as we know,
inclined to the same opinion. Lucie, in fact, went to
the length of feeling a keen pity for him, and even
admiration ; and when Lady Laure, on this point,
strong in her preferences and prejudices, remembered
her friend the abate, and remonstrated with her two
cavaliers for their fancy for Don Giobbe, Lucie would
call him "an honest, peasant-born soul, chained to a
stake, whose heart cannot rust behind its prison bars,
because the natural man still lives within."

But with all his good feelings for Don Giobbe,
never had Lucie sprung to meet him with such eagerness
as now.

Here is the very man — the man who is able to play
the part of the Deus ex machina in his deliverance.
Whether Don Giobbe or another, what are the odds ? —
the essential point is the priest.

What is the matter with you ? " says the priest,
repeating the question of the soldier, and for much the
same reason.

The hot blood is full astir now, rushing through his
heart and brain, flushing his cheek, and flashing in his
eyes, as he sees all the chances befriending him ; — ashe
stands staring, without words, at the priest, silenced

with the magnitude of all he has to do with him.

For now that it has come to the point, Lucie begins to
realize the novelty of the ground he has to break, and
how all unpractised his tongue is in such meddling
with the fate of other people.

Don Giobbe understands things his own way. By
this time he knows something of Lucie and his
enthusiasms, and he inclines to think that, beguiled
by the fever heat of this day of Freedom's triumphs,
Lucie, like one or two others, has been too liberal in
his libations to the Goddess of his worship.

The sun is hot," says the priest ; " you had better
get in," nodding in the direction of the Villa Grimaldi.

Lucie, for answer, puts his face close to the priest's
head, as if the rocks had ears, — and says, in a whispering
tone —

I have something to say to you. Are you going
to the town ? "

It is all over, they tell me," says the priest.
You had better go to your friends."

I will go back with you to the town," says Lucie.

Don Giobbe makes no reply. He sees now that
Lucie is not drunk, but he suspects he is up to some
mischief, and, — " simple creature" as he is, — he uses the
habitual fence of his class — of holding his tongue and
letting another speak.

"There is no time to be lost," says Lucie, and
draws out his father's letter. This is of inestimable
service to him. He shows the priest the signature,
explains that the letter is from his father, living just
lately at the villa ; and then, turning to the page which
refers to the marriage, translates it word for word.

Lucie could not have gone a better way to work to
explain his ends and to secure Don Giobbe's cooperation.
The expressions used by the earl are
strong enough for all he wants; he could not make
them more to the purpose if he tried.

As he reads, he stops from time to time, to
strengthen his words with dumb-show. He taps the
priest on the shoulder, on the pouch — this last — expressively,
and grasps his hand with energy.

Don Giobbe, on his side, begins to warm. He has
also his pantomime : he retreats, he advances, he points
before him. It is a very animated interview by this
time. And by this time also, conviction has come to
Don Giobbe that it is a serious affair, which there is no
doubt about ; that the business is certain to be undertaken

by some one ; and that he shall not be the loser

if that some one, happen to be himself and then

he throws himself thoroughly into the matter. He explains
to Lucie that the ecclesiastical authority must
be arranged with ; that the Residence now, is some stages
off; that his best plan is to take a conveyance, and
drive there direct ; that all he wants are the names and
conditions and religious beliefs of the principals. He
says that there is no fear but that it can be arranged ;
there is no great difficulty now ; there was a marriage of
the same sort three or four years ago, over there, and
he points behind him. But the authority will know all
about it ; while as for himself, he, Don Giobbe, living
at his small church over the hills, how can he pretend
to give any answer? But what he can say is, that,
at the quickest, he cannot be back before tomorrow
by Ave Maria — if then.

Lucie, all impatient as he is, burning to get free,
submits to the inevitable with moderate calmness.
He gives the priest his father's letter, and takes the
pencil out of the priest's breviary case, and sets down
upon the outside sheet the necessary particulars.
Necessity, and his own desperate stake in the success
of the affair, are making him thoroughly practical and
intelligible.

And now, matters being so far made clear between
them, without further debate they begin to walk back
rapidly to the town.

At the outskirts Don Giobbe leads the way. He

leaves the broad road, which cuts the town in two,
and begins mounting one of the steep streets of the
most miserable part of it. It is rough and narrow,
scarcely wide enough for wheels ; but the priest seems
to know what he is about. Half-way up, he turns at
a sharp angle, and points to a low clump of buildings
facing alone, and making the opening into a sort of
cul de sac — the way lies between broken stone walls
and evil-smelling rubbish heaps.

A couple of shabby chars stand under a shed ;
and as they come closer, a strong stable odour, with
a coughing, like that of some broken-winded animal,
indicate that the place is something of an hostelry for
poor purses. The priest pushes open the door of what
appears to be the human dwelling, and steps inside.
Much haggling and words are heard. After a while,
he comes out, followed by a ragged, limping lad —
the only human creature about the premises ; the rest
of the inmates, evidently, have gone off to swell the
numbers that enacted the grand scene of the morning, —
and now are probably talking it over in some more
cheerful place of entertainment than their own.

The lame ostler fastens back the stable-door with
a stone, and brings out a wretched, gasping animal,
which may be described as broken-winded, broken-kneed,
raw on the shoulder, and weak in the spine.

Now ensues more haggling and more noise. Don
Giobbe will have nothing to do with this sorry steed.
In the end he is master. The half-dead horse is led

back, and a stout mountain mule produced in its
stead.

Va bene ! " cries Don Giobbe. Then he claps his
hands. " Flora ! Tito ! " says he, impatiently.

The lad, considering his infirmity, is surprisingly
active in obeying Don Giobbe's order to be quick.
In less than five minutes he has harnessed the mule
to the smallest char ; dived into the house, and reappeared
with the wonderful transformation of a clean
face, an embroidered jacket, sheepskin leggings, and
a broad felt hat, decorated with a knot of coloured
ribbons, and a bunch of maize blossom stuck to one
side, flowing like the plume of a bird of paradise. The
priest mounts at once ; the lame ostler follows, and,
perched edgeways upon the narrow board that serves
as a driving-seat, he presents quite a fine appearance.
He is quite conscious of the effect he produces, and
cracks his whip with the air of a venturing with four-in-hand.


Don Giobbe waves adieu.

A demain ! " says Lucie.

And thus the out-works to the preliminaries, which
the earl writes of in his letter, are carried, as it were,
by storm.

Lucie has not yet saved the world ; but he has
set the train for a very pretty denouement for the
world about him. And now, with all speed, he retraces
his steps to find his two unsuspecting principals,
and to prepare them for their important parts.

CHAPTER VIII.

Lucre BEINGS ABOUT A CATACLYSM.

All lovely things are useless now ;

The storm of Fate has washed away

For me all hope and joy to-day.
The fragrant breeze, the flowers that blow,
Are naught to me but weary woe.

Unbraid my hair, unbind my feet ;
Thorn-torn I'll tread the valleys long
Of grief and silence, sin and wrong ;
Where Good and 111 in battle meet,
And Death spreads out his winding-sheet.

Ah, me ! as dreams in waning light
Die out, so dies Youth's dream in me ;
The chill wind sighs, and wails the sea.
Cover me up, thou friendly night,
And hide my sorrow from men's sight.

Lucie reaches the villa, with a sort of breathless -
repression in his face and heart. He walks straight
upon his mission to the common sitting-room, but he
finds it empty.

Then, with all haste, he seeks Mademoiselle Sabine.
He finds her with her spoons set by, and herself
arrayed in her most coquettish coiffure. She sits fanning

herself with a feather brush ; her eyes partially
closed, indulging, possibly, in a day-dream of some
wandering militaire who might come her way.

At the sound of Lucie's ringing voice, she starts
up, and cleverly puts the chair between him and her.
It is not from coyness, but Mademoiselle Sabine has
not forgotten the dangerous symptoms of the morning's
interview, and acts on the defensive. She does not,
however, refuse to parley at a safe distance, and from
behind her entrenchment ; and she tells him that
Miladi s'occupe seule dans sa chambre," and that
she believes monsieur is doing the same.

Three steps at a time, and Lucie is at his sister's
door. Then with a sharp knock he goes in.

Lady Laure sits upon her couch, with her hands
clasped over her knees, a strange mixture of astonishment
and alarm in her fair face.

Ah, Lucie ! " cries she, — " at last you are come ! "

She goes to meet him, and throws her arms round
his neck, and hides her head in his shoulder.

What is it, my child ? Why are you agitated ? "

As Lucie asks the question, his voice loses the
natural tone of inquiry ; he has a sudden apprehension
of the true state of the case. He remembers to have
met Giause, now the slow-footed Mercury of the villa.

No doubt the letters are delivered ; no doubt the

earl, after all, has written to Laure, — possibly to Lorraine
as well. Lucie gives a silent exclamation. After
all ! — the way is paved before him.

Lady Laure's next word makes surmise into
certainty.

Head this letter ; read papa's letter."
Lucie is wonderfully composed and calm. " I know
it all, my child," says he. "And you are happy, my
pretty bird ! " and he strokes her face coaxingly.
Oh, it is so strange, so sudden ! " falters she.

Strange ! sudden ! But your love, — Laure ? his
love ? — Are these things strange and sudden ? And

this, now so near to consummation, — will it not

crown your desires; — his desires? crown your father's
wishes ; — my wishes ? But more than this, will it not
fulfil your father's commands ? Is it not what he has
settled, decided, determined ? More than this still, is
it not what your Destiny has settled, decided, determined
? You have no longer any Yea or Nay in this
thing ! Listen to me, Laure," and Lucie's voice sinks
into its key of awe. " The Destinies of men cannot be
withstood ! "

Thus, with his native passionate utterance breaking
out, Lucie, after his own self, — fulfils his mission.

Lady Laure trembles under the vehemence of his
words, and his mysterious meanings.

I have not seen him," says she, " since "

She gets no further.

But I shall see him. I have arranged everything.
Your marriage will take place tomorrow evening."

A long " Oh ! " — ending in a smothered cry, bursts
from Lady Laure.

Laure," says Lucie, with a tone that went through
her heart, " you do not love Claude ! "

Oh yes, oh yes," mingled with sighs and sobs, is
the reply.

Then why do you shrink with terror now that you
are to become his wife ? "

Dear Lucie, it is not that ! " and then she sheds
another flood of tears.

Then Lucie took her to the couch, and sat down
beside her. " My child," he says, " when you wed, you
wed for both of us. We two — you and I — have been but
one. We have but one heart, and that is given to our

beloved Claude. Long, long ago I saw, I knew this.

AVe were three children then, — yet to me it was given
to lay this corner-stone of our lives. When, on that
New Year's Eve, we three stood together, our threefold
Fate was founded and fixed for ever ; — and now, in its
unalterable course, comes the fulfilment. All hopes
may perish and may fade; — all things may change
and fall away; — but, Laure, this is changeless as the
sun's course! — unalterable as death itself! "

The prophet's fire is in his voice.

Lady Laure's tears stand unshed within her brimming
lids as her blue eyes stretch wide in fear and
wonder at these mysterious sayings; she has no words
of her own to give in reply ; she sits as if fallen into a
dream.

Sit still, my child," he says. " It needs no effort
of yours ; it needs no effort of ours. We were brought

together ; we were divided ; we are brought together
again. We have no will in this. It is the will of the
Inexorable. For me," he cries, " outside this triple
bond, there is no human love, no human tie ; none
decreed, none desired ! Outside of this, the things
that hold me — that command my life, my devotion,

my destiny, are of quite a different colour. Yes,

steeped deep," cries Lucie, with a rending pathos in
his voice, " in quite a different colour."

He, too, sits silent now, holding her in his arms.
Almost he weeps as well as she. It might be the
passion of a last farewell, such agony mingles in their
embrace. Lady Laure weeps more and more.

Then, with a sudden thought, Lucie starts up.
His voice is ominous and full of warning. "Laure,
take care ! Hide these tears from Claude. If you
begin in tears, with tears you will both end."

Lady Laure puts both hands to her head, as is her
wont in dire distress and difficulty. She tightens her
fingers round her brows, and shuts her tear-swelled
eyes. She has but her own heart to go to. The outer
world, which so long has spread about her a path of
flowers without a thorn, for her is barren as the desert
in woman's friendly confidence — and wisdom's precious
counsels.

So she remains, forcing back her tears. Then she
looks up.

Lucie," she says, " I will conquer it. He shall
not think I do not love him."

VOL. II. I

"Happy love," whispers Lucie, "should be wreathed
in smiles. Meet him so, my child. He deserves it,
this dear Claude, that we two have loved so long."

But you — you must speak first to him," she
murmurs.

Yes, yes, my child ; I will speak to him. And
then — then fly you to meet him."

And so he embraces her again and goes, and the
door closes between these two isolated ones — this
loving brother — and loving sister.

Outside, Lucie stands still, a flood of thought, crossing
his speaking face — pathetic, resolute, triumphant.

She is happy," he says to his beating heart ;
happy and safe. And tomorrow — I shall be free ! "

He turns to go to Lorraine, but his door is thrown
back ; the bird is flown.

Time enough to speak to Claude," murmurs he.
Laure was the only difficulty, and that is gone."

The windows of the long passages are thrown open,
for the sun is low ; the jalousies are hooked back ; the
long, slanting light dances along the walls and flickers
on the floors. The soft south wind blows freshly
through ; it comes laden with the motion of the free
waves, perfumed with the fragrance of the orange
blossoms and the myrtle ; it speaks of love and joy,
and freedom from all life's weary burdens, all life's
burning sorrows ; — it is disarming, enchanting, bewildering
I

The old passion takes possession of him; it conquers

and constrains him ; and in another moment he
is away by the paths he loves, climbing the mountain-side
— away for another ramble in the fool's paradise
he has upbraided. His bright hair streams to the
breeze ; his bright eyes dance in the sunlight ; his
light steps bound like the butterflies that still float
airily over the flowery maze ; his heart springs buoyant
within him, as if every mortal thing were hidden from
him save the beautiful earth he revels in.

Lady Laure, left to herself, gentle and brave,
nerves herself to fulfil the promise she has made;
nerves herself to prove to her beloved — how dear he
is to her. Love and truth give courage to the maiden
instinct that has filled her heart with trembling fear,
on the verge of this unknown life placed so suddenly
before her. But she nothing doubts. Doubt has no
part in her agitated feelings. She trusts in this " dear
Claude " as in heaven itself.

It is not that," as she cried to her brother.

No! it is not lack of confidence; not lack of love; not
lack of joy. Not to herself can she say what her terror
is, only that it is a fear — strange, sudden, serious.
But with never a will of her own, and with ever a
faith in the will of another, whether father or brother
or lover, she strives to follow their bidding now in this
crisis of her life, — as she has done in all the level ways
before it.

Then her gentle soul is comforted and her strength
renewed, and the tear-clouds pass from her sweet face,
and lighter cares arise — lighter, but, to a girl's young
mind, full of grave consideration. Is she, then, really
tomorrow to be married ? But where ? by whom ?
How can it all be? And then — then, what can she
wear ? For this crowning event of her life she must
look her best.

So she rings for Mademoiselle Sabine, and, with a
blush and a smile and a sigh, she relieves her yearning
heart, and feels, with the first word of confidence
spoken into the pleasant waiting-maid's practical ear,
—quite cheered and gay again.

Ciel ! " cries Mademoiselle Sabine ; and then,
mais mon Dieu ! "

And then she stops to breathe, and, as she takes
breath, she stands looking at Lady Laure, with more
of scrutiny than any other expression.

Ce n'est pas bien ! " says she, decidedly.

Sabine has all the frankness of the Noise about her.

II faut, au moins quelques semaines pour se preparer."


Lady Laure explains the exigency of the case, the
necessity for immediate removal, the impossibility of
a return to England, the wish of her father, her
brother's words, her own duty and compliance.

Et monsieur, votre fiance, qu'en dit il?"

Sabine cannot keep her aversion within due bounds.
She lets flv at Lorraine.

Croyez moi, je le connais ! II pourra ce role improve
de bien mauvaise grace ! — II lui faut du temps
pour tout — mere pour se garter — II est lourd lui !
vrais Anglais ! Hates vous interment — n'est ce pas
bien lui ! "

A smile plays round Lady Laure's rosy lips.
Sabine's graphic description of her lover is irresistible.

Et la robe de noces, madame ! " continues
Sabine. " Mais c'est impossible ! " cries the waiting-maid
in despair.

Lady Laure, with Lucie's happy advent, had returned
to life's rainbow hues, both in her heart and
in her robes. She says that her new sea-green dress
will be just the thing.

Ce n'est pas la couleur qu'il faut pour une robe
de noces ! " is the discontented answer.

But it will do ; it is pretty, and it suits me,"
argues Lady Laure.

Bien ! comme vous voudrez, madame ; mais ce n'est
pas ainsi, que je me marie rais, — moi ! "

Nevertheless, Mademoiselle Sabine throws all her
vivacious energy into the affair. She whisks out the
sea-green robe, turns it over and over with a critical
shrug, and at last carries it off, declaring that "au
moins faut-il y ajouter quelque chose de blanc ! "

After this, Lady Laure, following her brother's last
counsel, arrays herself in her brightest smiles, and goes
down with a fluttering joy to meet her lover.

Lucie must have talked it all over with Claude
by this time," says she to herself. " Perhaps they are
still talking."

She hopes so much that they are. The thought that
she shall find them both together encourages her, for
she begins to tremble again with the fear of this first
encounter — this meeting under these new circumstances.


Outside the large sitting-room she waits. The
door is ajar ; her agitation is coming back in full force,
her beating heart beats faster still, for she can see
into the room, and at the upper end, facing her, sits
Lorraine — alone.

His elbows rest upon his knees, his chin upon his
hands ; in his face is a look she has never seen there
before — fixed and frowning ; the lips tightened sternly,
defiantly ; the eyes hard and cold under the bent brow.
No ardent lover's face is this ! She draws back with
a cold thrill, as if her warm heart had clashed with an
iceberg. She needs, with her past experience, nothing
more to tell her that something again is wrong — fatally
wrong this time.

As she suddenly moves, her dress rustles audibly.
Who is there ? " asks Lorraine, with a voice that
vibrates as little — as smothered sounds — when coming
tempests deaden the air.

But Lady Laure fights against her fears. He has
been waiting ; he is tired. Yes ; she will — she will
believe it must be this, this only that is amiss ; and,

eager to atone, she goes quickly into the room, her
blue eyes beaming with love, her blushes, her smiles,
her sweet timid voice mingling in tender confusion
as she runs softly up to his knees and says —

It is I, dearest Claude ; I have come down to find
you."

Have you ? " says he, icily, and he says no more.
He does not alter his attitude ; he only turns away his
eyes from her.

There is no more doubt. Who could doubt the
meaning of that relentless face ; of that ruthless
voice ?

She stands motionless, with her eyes on his —
changed to a statue, you might have said, but that the
cold marble could never give the breathing meekness
of those folded arms. There is a dead silence, maybe
of some minutes. Lady Laure would have told you
that it was longer to her than her whole life before it.

He gets up at last. He pushes his chair back, —
before he moves, to avoid the touch of her flowing
robes. He does not speak, but begins to go rapidly
up and down the room ; twice and thrice he brings
himself to a stand, as if about to open his lips, and
again he goes on with his silent walk.

But the crisis must come ; and he faces round upon
her with the glare of a hunted animal at bay. It is
against nature to see such a look given to the meek
creature — standing there with her folded arms before
him.

"It is useless," says he, "prolonging this scene.
After Lord Bellarmine's extraordinary letter to me,
there are but two courses left to me — to comply with
his unseemly proposition, or to take my leave. I
choose the last. I see — I regret to see, by your manner
on coming in just now, that you are in this — this — I
know not what word to give to this grand coup demain
! " Lorraine smiles bitterly. " I see now the
drift of this fortnight's forced delay. Well, I could
not have credited it ; but I am glad to say I know
very little of these manoeuvres, or of women — and their
miserable petty ways ! "

A stop. Then he goes on — the momentum of his
haughty indignation increasing as he speaks —

If you have anything to say to me, it will be
well for you to say it now, for I leave this house in
half an hour." And then he begins his march to and
fro again.

In the sudden shock of this blow, before all other
feelings came up, she might have cried aloud for
mercy, but that she was speechless — struck dumb
with astounded anguish.

"I am sorry to pain you," he says, turning halfway
round, as he stands in the middle of the room.
Take my word for it, it is a thing that will pass ! " —
Again comes the bitter smile. " There might, indeed,"
says he, raising his voice stonily — " there might have
been a pain for both of us not so easily got rid of ; but
happily, that risk is over. I open my eyes in time.

This indecent haste, this trick to surprise rne, finds me
not quite the poor fool 1 am taken tor ! "

She shivers from head to foot.

Pardon me," he says, seeing her trembling form ;
do not be alarmed ; no harm is done. I did not mean
to put into words what I think and feel — at this gross
thing ; but I owe it to myself to say something — to
say something in justification of the step I take, — something
to let you know that I fathom this pitiful family
plot ! "

She gives no answer to his cutting words, but,
with the downcast eyes of grief and consternation, she
turns to leave him. The door is reached. She must
look at him once again — once again. There is a
heartrending desolation in her large blue eyes. She
clasps her hands, and holds them out to him — a mute
prayer for pity.

He walks straight up to her, putting his own hand
out. " Let us part friends," says he. " We may never
see each other again. But if we chance to do so, — it
can be as friends. Better so."

There is no emotion in him ; he neither feels it nor
simulates it. In his own opinion, as he says to himself,
he is a victim, narrowly escaped out of a trap deliberately
set to catch him ; and he is acting in a very
honourable and dignified sort of way.

"Let us part friends," are his last words. "We
should never have been anything more, and then it
wouldn't have come to this ! It was a grand mistake,
but none of my seeking ; my conscience is clear there.
But it's no use talking of that now." Then he adds,
You see, I might have left, as I was tempted to do,
without seeing you again, the instant I received that
letter. It might have been pleasant to both of us
if I had ; but I was weak enough to allow my feelings
to influence me."

The bad Spirits who were, no doubt, close by just
then, must have laughed, after their demoniac fashion,
to hear Lorraine talk of his — weakness and his
feelings !

"And, after all these months, I couldn't well go
without a right understanding." — So he winds up.

Oh ! you don't understand us ; you don't undermine!"
cries she, with a broken voice.

Well, let that pass with the rest ; it signifies
nothing now." Then he holds out his hand again.
We part friends, Laure — or Lady Laure, let me say."

Lorraine's evil genius was in diabolical ascendancy
this day, if ever. In the final word there was the ring
of the old callous sneer. It is the last straw that breaks
the camel's back. This — " Lady Laure," this tone, this
sneer ; it is too hard, too cruel.

She unclasps her hands, and drops them down.
She will not touch his offered hand, offered in such cold
blood ; but she raises her eyes to his and says —

Heaven bless you ! "

Something more she might have said, but the
words die in their utterance. And so, with her bruised
heart, and blessing on her lips, she passes out of the
room and leaves him.

Heaven bless you ! " So blessing, Mr. Mildew
passed away from his presence. So blessing, Lady
Laure passes away, too.

Don't break her heart ! " cried Mr. Mildew.

What is the matter, Laure ? What does he mean ?
The man is mad, hopelessly insane." So said Lorraine.

Poor Mr. Mildew ! Safe at last, safe with the
ghosts ; safer and surer than if he had lived to see
this day.

CHAPTER IX.

World WANDERERS.

It is night.
Four seers watch the stars together.
A meteor sweeps and bursts. It moves with wild speed.
From it come sweet, rending cries, and harsh, grating tones.

Then the first seer speaks :
1 Are not these the voices from an exploding Elysium ?

Who knows ?
The cruel gods locked the gates of Tartarus.'

Then the second seer speaks :
Are these not world-wanderers— persons who have lost love ?

Who knows ?
Do they not follow their doom— some over earthly mole hills,
Some up sorrow's transfigured mount, some with celestial harps?'

Then the third seer speaks :
Are these not ghosts ?
Who knows?
A thousand million walk the earth at noonday.
Ere the watch ticks, a thousand will have vanished,
A thousand will have arisen.'

Then the fourth seer speaks :
1 Are we not all ghosts ?

Who knows ?
This life, this blood, this brain, this force,
These passions, these crimes, these sorrows,

These hopes, these joys, —
Are they not the vapours gathered round the shadowy Me ? ' "

Lorraine remains planted in the middle of the room,
his hand held out, his lips in the attitude of speech,

his face full of the haughty condescension of his last
words.

Perhaps, after all, he has taken himself by surprise
with the courage with which he has alienated himself
from his own Fatality. Yet, surprise is not altogether
the expression which he wears, as he stands staring
through the opened door, — as if expecting some one to
appear.

Does he, indeed, expect to see the fair saint he
his just driven forth, returning, with her face upraised
to Heaven, appealing once more against the vast unconquerable
wrong she has to bear? He may stand
staring a long time — before love so forbearing, passion
so innocent, truth so confiding, will run, either in
smiles or tears, to welcome him again.

His rage has had its vent, and so it cools. If put
through the same conditions, he would have comported
himself the same. He has no compunction ; no hark-back.
Yet, with the cold wave of the Irrevocable
covering up these love-passages of his life, which now
have passed positively out of all possession, the immediate
outcome of it all is a sense of irreplaceable
loss, physical as much as mental — as most of his feelings
are ; — as, indeed, a good share of the feelings of the
rest of the world might be proved to be, could they
be analyzed by a method as subtle, as their own
organization.

Standing thus poised, in this pause between the
acts, Lorraine hears voices outside, and in the next

moment he is face to face with Lucie's ardent eyes,
and the grand presence of the Abate Faa di Bruno.

Lucie hurries past the priest to his friend.

Claude," cries he. Then, looking fixedly at him,
he cries again, " Claude, my brother, you have seen
our Laure. I see it ; your hearts have met."

Yes ; Lucie has the unerring sense that some crisis
has passed over Lorraine, standing there, with that
abnormal petrified suspension.

It was not the Lorraine of his everyday self. His
ready tongue, too, is petrified ; he has no words for a
reply. This meeting has come upon him too soon
after that other parting, and before he has had time
to buckle up his habitual coat of mail. For the
moment he does not master what next must be the
move. When he knows this, no one better than Lorraine,
— come what come may, — to go straight at the
thing to be done.

But Lucie ! as he exclaimed when he delivered
his moral lecture before Lady Laure; — with
this sensitive, irresponsible creature, there must be
management.

Lorraine does not unite Lucie to his suspicions.
The earl's correspondence, according to his full belief,
is all with his daughter. Lucie is neither a plotter
nor to be trusted by plotters.

So Lorraine remains in his arrested attitude, as
if dumb or dreaming. But there is no dreaming
within; his mind is on the full stretch, considering,

with hurried thoughts, how this " management " is to
be managed.

Lucie, however, asks for no words. These mute
signs of his friend — a man stint in show of feeling —
speak to him with more force than volumes of protest.
He takes this dear friend's hand, a world of love in
every tone he utters.

"At last, the hour is come," he says, "for happy
Claude — and happy Laure."

His voice sinks down ; his eyes, wide fixed, fill
full with tears ; and then, with another of his tender,
boyish impulses, he smoothes the waving hair back
from Lorraine's bold forehead. Wistfully he smiles,
as his fingers linger among the glossy curls.

For happy Laure and Claude," he cries again ;
" and for this poor Lucie."

Like music's echo in a sea-washed cave did " this
poor Lucie" fall upon the ear — a sorrow within a
joy, a knell in marriage bells. It goes through Lorraine
like a sword.

And there, behind Lucie, stands another disarming
influence — the priest Faa di Bruno — a presence, indeed,
to console some, but to awe others. Lady Laure, in
past days, found talking with him comforting and
cheering, but Lorraine had always frozen up before him.

Now, in the gathering evening, as he comes forward
to speak, with his tall figure and his majestic Southern
voice, he seemed to Lorraine to fill and overshadow all
the space.

"I am fortunate," he says, "to have returned today,
and to be able thus, in my own person, to fulfil
what I am assured is Lord Bellarmine's specified
desire; and it is a favour due to our brother, Don
Giobbe, that I am here myself to discharge this duty,
which should by prior arrangement have been his
appointed office."

Some muttered sounds escape Lorraine. He is
utterly incapable of saying anything to the purpose.
He is neither bully nor coward, he will tell you, and
yet some people may think that a while ago he acted
very like the one, — and in this moment he begins to
think that he feels very like the other. The dead-lock
is driving him desperate, and he plunges forward to
clear himself bodily and get off. But there is small
chance here, in these close quarters, of his safely
slipping his cable. Lucie clings to him, and the
abate draws himself up in front with a look of surprise
; and so he falls back discomfited.

In this conjuncture, Lady Laure comes again upon
the scene.

All thoughts, all things reeling about her, she has
gone out under the sky, wandering she knows not where.
She chokes, she stifles, she falters and faints under the
rude shock ; she must have air, silence, solitude !

But when consciousness returns to her poor scattered
brain, she flies back ; for here abroad, may she not
meet that merciless one, with new taunts, new accusing,
to wound and assail her? So she comes

sighing in, not hearing, not seeing, till she is in the
midst of the three men.

Lucie springs to her side ; his arm goes round her,
his hands hold her, he whispers loving words to her,
and bears her up dazed and bewildered to Lorraine.

No, no," she murmurs, and with weak effort she
struggles to get free.

"My child, you are ill! This is Claude, your
Claude, our Claude. What is it ? What has befallen
you, my child ? " So Lucie soothes her.

But now Lorraine's lips are forced apart. "It is
for me to explain."

Not you, not you ! " cries Lady Laure, waving
him back with her hand.

Now the abate takes his part in this strange
medley. "Calm yourself, dear lady," says he, advancing.
" Trust me. Nothing shall be done without
your full and free consent ! "

At the sound of the abate's voice, Lady Laure
breaks from her brother, a strength as from Heaven
inspires her ; it is the voice of a father in her ears — of
a father near unto divine. In her forlorn strait, in her
new and desperate fear, it speaks to her, not of comfort
there is no comfort for her — but of succour, support,
counsel, and appeal.

Abate, good abate," cries she, " take my brother
away. I must speak to him alone." She points to
Lorraine, but she does not look at him.

With the unanswerable command of his manner,

VOL. II. K

the abate lays his still hand upon Lucie's arm and
leads him away.

Leave them a while," says he.

Lady Laure looks after them till their figures pass
out of sight into the evening gloom. The house, too, is
growing dark ; she cannot see his face — the scornful,
daring, superb face, which owns the cruel heart and the
stinging tongue, and which now once more she has
put herself freely into the power of.

Lady Laure has scarce reached eighteen summers.
Dainty and delicate has been her rearing ; smooth as
the sea in moonlight nights of June has been her
existence. She is all trust, all dependence upon others ;
timid, meek, and gentle, there is no trace of selfishness,
scarcely of self-reliance in her; but she is no Ophelia
not the fair flower that must perish in the first rude
storm ; not too fragile to endure the contradictions of
Fate ; not one who has to die — because she cannot
endure the conditions of her life.

Love, deep, true, passionate, has filled her heart,
but it embraced not her whole nature. Bereft, scorned,
forsaken, her mind has still its centre, her soul its sense
of duty ; and with Lorraine's first extricating word,
Duty triumphs above Love's despair. But duty is
all too cold a word for the pure flame of the fraternal
tie — for the mastering motive which makes her bravo
all, to save her brother the pang which would be bitter
to him as death itself.

As now she stands gathering up her strength, tall

and white in the dusk room, you might have taken
her for a shadowy spirit from a better world, but that
the hands that cross her bosom press down in vain the
rising spasms, that still swell her throbbing heart. But
though she is growing mistress of herself, and although
the dignity of sorrow is replacing its distraction, yet
the first effort to speak to him is tremendous, and her
words fall from her lips slow and measured, like the
beat of some solemn timepiece, which gives to each
flying moment the gravity of an hour.

Mine is to be the blame," she says. " Kemember,
it is I that have changed my mind. That other
thought would kill him. From you he could not
bear this thing. Kemember, it is I — I who have
done it ! "

Lorraine sees it all — sees that she will put her
woman's heart before all fate ; sees that her instinct is
inviolate, that her words are pure gold, that this pious
falsehood is truer than all Truth ; but, half ashamed
of himself and his own sorry part, he answers —

Impossible."

She makes a step nearer to him. " He has done
you no harm. You will not gain if you break his heart,
too ! "

Once more despair creeps over her. Will he, then,
have no mercy? Will he pierce both their hearts
through and through ? Then again, in the dire energy
of trembling and imploring supplication, she clasps her
hands.

Promise," she cries ; " promise ! Oh, there is no
time to wait. Have pity on us ! "

This grace for which she entreats, is as large a
good to himself as to her ! Lorraine is not so blind as
not to see it — not so dead to his one redeeming affection
as not to desire to spare, if he could, Lucie's tender
heart. If pride would have let him, it is the very
grace all this time he would have been glad to ask of
her. And so he gives his promise, yet awkwardly
enough.

It shall be as you will," says he. " I promise you
this."

And you will never betray me ?• — never ? "

Never," he answers.

Perhaps it is the words of this new compact which
bring with them a meaning that rips open all her
anguish.

She breaks down again. " You have done all you
can," she cries — * all you can for me, and I forgive
you ! " And then, with a burst of the first tears she
has shed upon this shipwreck of her life, she goes
tottering away.

Laure ! Laure ! " cries Lorraine ; but she hears not,
she heeds not.

One thing and another have at last brought his
cold heart to feel. " Laure ! Laure ! " he cries again.
But there is no reply She is gone from his sight —
lost, like the other two, in the gloom of the coming
night.

Then he draws himself up ; he rights himself, mind
and body. " She is right ; and it's best so ! " It is
his last word, and thereafter he neither tarries nor
expects.

His small preparations for departure were made on
the first rebound of his disgust, and despatched in
secrecy by the bribed hand of the venal Giause to the
town. Now, to be wholly quit, he has but to take his
hat and go. There is no safety but in flight. If Lady
Laure, in this moment, were to return with love in her
blue eyes and with Lucie's tender friendship at her

side ■ Well, he is not going to risk it, and so he

takes his hat and — he goes.

"Yes, it might have come to something serious,
some day," thinks he, as for the last time he brushes
rapidly along by the pine forest, and through the
weird shades of the olive groves. "But now, this

marriage Why, it would have been the worst thing

in the world for me, and the very worst thing in the
world for her, too. I oughtn't have turned out quite a
brute ; but I should have been a very unbearable
husband, that's certain ! "

And so he turns out of the black recesses, where he
has had to steer well to avoid the fantastic embraces
of the hoary giants he has been threading, and takes,
with some relief, the sweep up the open hill.

The night is moonless, but the vast purple sky
hangs overhead in matchless glory; its boundless

depths — pierced with the innumerable stars, keeping
their mighty courses, calm and changeless, above the
changeful lives of restless men. Lorraine stops for a
moment to look, and to admire ; and then, if mortal
ken had been upon him, it would have seen a shade
deepen in his eyes, and his face grow momentarily

ive.

Maybe the grand, heavenly hieroglyphics appealed
to him, with their far-reaching language, and touched
that chord, which never sounded yet in human heart,
without awakening some awed, unravelled conviction
of the Divine Ordinance of things.

Then he brings down his eyes, and looks straight
before him into the dark gloom, and with strides, fast
and firm, he makes for the town.

If I were a Methodist parson," thinks he, "I should
call this the hand of Providence. I am clear off, and
it won't break her heart, and it will save his head ; for
now she's alone, he can't leave her if he would — that's
clear."

Lorraine can never get away from his banter, and
yet, God knows, his words had their desperately earnest
side, and a desperately thankful side, — and not for
himself alone.

It was in full faith of the absoluteness of these
results that Lorraine went on his way, with the worry
of months wound up and over, the anxiety of weeks
relaxed, the doubts of conscience altogether dispersed.

Half an hour after Lorraine had thus turned his
back upon love and friendship, Lueie and the abate
walk into the house. The hall is lighted, and
Mademoiselle Sabine is posted at the door.

Where are they ? " cries Lucie.

Pour lui ; il est parti ! " Ineffable contempt ig in
her voice.

He ! Gone ! " cries Lucie.

"Oui ; est ce que c'est la une chose a regretter ! "

Lucie stands struck.

Then the abate closely questions the waiting-maid.
She is probably mistaken," he says ; " it is only to
walk out — not a serious departure."

But Mademoiselle Sabine sticks to her point.
Does she not know what she is saying ? Does she
not know what she has seen ? Did he think to deceive
her, when he took Giause behind the hedges, and gave
him money and his ' bagage ' ? "

Conviction is dawning upon the abate, and he is
arriving fast at new conclusions. He draws Lucie to
one side and speaks to him.

"Your friend has acted for the best," says he.
"What could he do here, at this moment, in the
state of mind in which your sister clearly is ? This
sudden arrangement — excuse me if I give my opinion
frankly, and term it ill advised — finds her maidenly
heart naturally unprepared. If this marriage, which
you seem so much to desire — you and your father —
is to take place with happy consequences, you must

give her time. Her hesitation is such as you must
respect and submit to. You will do well to bear in
mind that it is your sister who is to be the principal
in this important matter, not yourself — a point in the
society of some countries too often overlooked, but
quite otherwise, I apprehend, in yours, for which
reason marriages should be more fortunate with you
than elsewhere. For this young man, he appears tome,
— in thus at last relieving your sister of the inconvenience,
if nothing more, of his presence, — to have
taken a most politic and considerate course — a course,
indeed, which, remembering that his pretensions are so
strongly supported, takes me, I confess, quite by
surprise, with its generous and self-denying moderation.
It is not what I expected from — from what I may say
were my previous impressions of him."

The abate looks up ; his face fills with austere
reflection. " You did not know poor Mr Mildew ? "
says he. The question of the abate is rather a
reply — a reply to his own thoughts.

He died," answers Lucie, vaguely. Neither his
mind nor his lips move with the inquiry. AYhat has
this dead man to do with it ?

Yes, he died," says the abate.

And so Mr. Mildew drops again out of the company
of the living. It was only Lorraine's "generous and
self-denying moderation " that made him turn in his
quiet grave !

Lncie had been electrified with the first ne
Lorraine's unlooked-for retreat ; now he grow becalmed.
The priest's even voice, with its even words
and even sense, subdues him. His deep eye holds him
fast, as the bright eye of the snake fascinates the bird
in the midst of its airy flights.

But all this time another eye is upon both of them,
it is Mademoiselle Sabine

ne vaut pas la peine attend: ? she,

tossing her head in the most independent fashion.
Miladi ne descended pas ce soir ! n and then she
vanishes herself, muttering, as she goes, many words
about ** la pauvre chere," and to the effect that she
Sabine, will take very good care nobody else shall get
near her to torment her this night.

But with the sharp sound-moselle Sabine's

voice, and with her words, which bring Lady Laure up
in all her sorrow, all her abandonment, before his eyes, —
Lucie breaks away from his brief bondage, and,
one of his long wails, he cries out —

And I. too, — I must leave her ! "

It is the abate's turn to start now. He is not
more ignorant of the nature of the angels than fa
of Lucie's inner self. Most men, indeed, he has but toscan,
to fathom. Mr. Mildew's troubled waters, Lady
Laoie'i sweet calms, — the weakness, the pride, the
deceitfulness of men, which, by turns
give out in callous self-assertion, — these and their
kindred qualities, are bare to his discerning glance

are the pages of an open book. But the strange
depths of Lucie's mysterious soul, the conflicts which
struggle within his resting heart, his unspeakable
devotedness, his inexorable sympathies, his terrible
earnestness, — into these the abate penetrates not.

It is true that he has been studying the wonderful
face, — that he has marvelled at its surprising beauty, at
its unspotted look of purity, at its radiant youth ; but
when all is said, he has seen no deeper than the azure
eyes, the waving hair, and the stainless brow. But
now, as with this distressful cry there comes into the
speaking face an agony that seems to sum up the
whole sorrow of a lifetime, the abate starts with a
new light.

He is a man too well acquainted with the shows of
Grief to misdoubt its true significance, and here he
beholds it in its most earnest and most piteous form —
he reads some relentless necessity, some imperious
motive at the back of all this wretchedness; but he
speaks with the customary calm of his trained voice.

Surely," says he, " there is no immediate reason
for you to leave her ? "

Lucie replies not at once with words. He takes
the abate's two hands, and looks into his face as if
he would read into his very soul. Long and stedfastly
he looks, and then comes his answer —

You can help me — you only now. But you are a
priest," he says, "and priests have cold hearts and
crafty souls ; their tongues are snares ; in their hands

are chains ; they have dug Freedom's grave ! But
Freedom," he cries, " is deathless ! Freedom knows no
sepulchre ! "

He who had set his heart upon deciphering the
abate's mind, might now have been carried away with
a swift reading of it.

Not a shadow of resentment, not a breath of retaliation
comes from him ; he is not even taken with
amazement. — His brow expands benignly ; his lips open
with a gracious smile ; his eyes fill with a tolerating
charity. One large, soft hand gently disengages itself,
and is laid weightily and firmly upon the beautiful
head, half suppliant, half defiant, — and with the action
come the words that fit it —

Calm yourself, my son," he says. " Take comfort.
God has willed that I should be here to pity and to
hear your trouble. He will be with us, and by His
help, I, weak man like yourself, can, I doubt not, help
you."

Then Lucie's heart, neither cold nor crafty, but
changeful as Heaven's bow, yet beaming like it with
the eternal colours of Truth and Beauty, forgets the
snares and chains it had so boldly challenged, warms
to the magic touch of sympathy, and abases itself low
before the pious humility of the bland voice, which
gives back its good words, for evil ones.

Pardon ! " he cries ; " pardon ! My words have
wronged you ! One there may be in a thousand ; yes,
one in a thousand. Give me your pardon ; but not

pity. For me there is no pain, no trouble. I go where
I am called ; I go with all my will, with all my heart,
with all that I have to give. But for her, for my poor
child, for poor Lave, there is pain, there is trouble,
there is no love, no arm left to go round her, no
Claude, no Lucie, no friend but you, good priest ;
Good, — Good. Let this word wipe out those others."

Think no more now of that," says the abate.
Our hearts are hard, but they cannot soften in vain.

Already all is forgiven — There, where forgiveness

is precious indeed ; " and the priest pauses ; he looks
solemnly upwards, he is wrapt in holy abstraction.

When he raises his voice again, it has a still fuller
tone of hope and cheer. The solemnity has
away ; it is the cheer of an earthly Hope, which now
sounds in his words, and beams in his eyes.

Go in peace," he says, u since for you there is no
alternative. To me, as to a father in the Lord, confide
your sister."

So speaks the abate, and Lucie, speechless, brimming
over with the insisting gratitude of his full
heart, carries the hand he still holds to his lips.

Oh, these elected ministers of the Great Unseen,
what a boundless Vicegerency they wield! Rebel, resent,
react as we will, in the dark days when soul or body is
sick unto death, — what an unalienable grace is theirs, to

heal, to subdue, to sustain ! "With what a majesty of
power, they approach the troubled hearts of men !

"And now, for one last word with you." says the
abate. " Let me not send you away assured of that,
which I have not the means of fulfilling. I cannot tell
how things may turn out. I have not the power to stop
your sister's tears, or to stay her sighs. She is a tender
flower, and the wind which would be but a trifle to some,
to her may prove a rude blast. But while she desires it,
she shall have all that I can command — my watchfully

assistance, my protection; nay, if it will be a
consolation to you, if she will consent to it, she shall find
a friend — one in a thousand, indeed, as you were pleased
to say just now — a friend, and a tranquil and sheltering
roof not far from here, with my own sister. With her
she can remain, until" — and the abate gives one keen
glance from under his broad brows — u until your obligations
release you," he s

Does the abate sruess at the nature of these obligations
? He asks no questions, neither comments further
nor further dissuades. Whatever they are, he sees that
they do not thwart the possible part which he begins,
not dimly now, — to apprehend, may be his to play in
the strange sequences of these family events.

Lucie hears him, and does not hear him ; he is

nearing his goal ; he is dreaming far away ; in spirit he
is already gone. The grand, authoritative voice of the
abate, expanding into its full tones of strength and
promise, is lulling to rest his fears for his poor Laure,
is making a haven of safety out of the forlorn hope he
had turned to in his desperation; and he has no half

thoughts. In his tenderness and his inexorableness,

in his aversions and his enthusiasms, he is all sincerity
and candour.

He opens his pitiful appeal to the abate with a
wild anathema upon his class, and in the next moment,
when the homage and thankfulness of his heart are
enlisted by the sublime benevolence of the man, he
calls him " Good priest," and carries his hand to his
lips.

So now, with the path smoothed behind him, he
feigns none of the anxious concern he does not feel ; he
is prepared to leave all, to trust all, to better hands
than his own ; and for himself, he makes ready to plunge
headlong into the tempestuous darkness of the road
that lies before him.

I shall see you tomorrow," says the abate,
moving to go.

Lucie's eyes have been looking into space, filled
with a terrible Joy. Now, with both hands, he drives
back his hair, bares his white forehead, and the hands
remain clasped above his head. It is the action of a
desperate crisis. — In this last moment he will see all
things clearly.

"For to-night I leave you. We will meet tomorrow,"
says the abate, once again.

Then the hands fall, and the wild hair is shaken
down to hide the storm of feeling that is resolved to
rise.

"There is no To-morrow here," cries he. "No

To-morrow for Laure and Lucie. But give her this.
Tell my poor child to love Claude for Lucie's sake."
He takes a shabby ribbon from his neck ; a small gold
ring hangs to it.

The abate holds out his hand, but in vain ; for

Mademoiselle Sabine is lurking behind. She makes
a snatch at the farewell token.

C'est a moi de le prendre, puisque je suis seule a
servir miladi ! "

The abate looks after her, with a face of stern
rebuke, as she makes off with her prize.

Mademoiselle Sabine tosses her head over her
shoulder, and meets the reproving eye. " Soit ! " cries
she ; " pour la servir, je donner jusqu'a mon ane ! "

"There is good in that heart," says Lucie;

and she loves Laure," sighs he.

And so, with this last kind word for Mademoiselle
Sabine, the curtain falls upon Lucie's farewell.

CHAPTEK X.

WIDOWED MATES.

I left thee alone to thy sorrow ;

I left thee to bear it.
I cared not what came to thy morrow,

So I did not share it.
The tears down thy cheeks that were stealing,

My cold heart accused not.
To look with no shadow of feeling

My cold eye refused not.

Of thy bright youth I gathered the flower ;

The dew of thy morning.
I left thee with truth for thy dower,

And my bitter scorning.
I can give thee back nothing to-day,

Of all I bereaved thee.
I leave thee to weep and to pray

For him who deceived thee.

Into which hands will you fall: rascality, with its
revolver ; or honesty, with its virtuous indignation ?

At first sight, the question appears too idle to be
entertained. And yet it is not altogether an imbecile
one. Rascality, if it uses its revolver, is like to be
hanged, poor wretch ! and possibly may die penitent,
confessing its sins, — all which contingencies are

deterrent. It, therefore, thinks twice ; and you have
your chance of escape. But honesty is off-hand ; its
clutch is sure ; it flatters itself it has the Bench and
all the Bishops at the back of its virtuous indignation ;
and, having crushed you out with it, it goes on its way,
with its head quite high, attesting nothing but the
integrity of its own proceedings ; — and the best, or the
worst of it is, — it is no hypocrite !

But there is honesty and honesty ; and yet both
are honest. Yet to be of one kind is to be one picked
out of ten thousand ; and to be of the other is to be
one "who never ate his bread with tears."

Our Prince Fortune — figuratively, it is no inappropriate
title for Lorraine — would have found it a
hard matter to be anything but honest. Without
vices, with a full purse, with what he holds to be
Truth, ever the readiest thing upon his tongue, without
even the faculty for garbling it ; — whether blindfold
or with eyes wide open, he takes involuntarily the
paths of honesty. But —

He knows ye not, ye heavenly powers ! "

And amongst other causes, it is this effortless
honesty which is at fault: a quality of mind which
serves the double purpose of opening the eyes but
closing the heart, of leading him right and landing
him wrong — not wrong as he takes it. If you can
convince Lorraine of the wrong absolutely, as far ashe
goes there will be an absolute end of it.

VOL. II-{- L

Now, if you had met him at this juncture of his
affairs, it would have been hard to discover any signs
about him of the man with a troubled conscience. In
fact, it is all the other way with him. In his general
wind-up with the pair he has quitted, to say the least,
abruptly, — he has the fullest conviction that he has
acted honestly and justifiably — honestly in regard to
them, justifiably in regard to himself. Not indeed, that
he held to the justice of his first fiery words of reproach
and accusation ; for these, if he had had the opportunity,
he would have been ready with the most ample
recall and regret.

Lady Laure, as usual, had been the hapless scapegoat,
doomed to receive the whole vial of his wrath in
its first grand outburst. But again, as usual, with his
second thoughts, he recognized the complete guiltlessness
of this hapless scapegoat; and he would have
honestly told you that it did not need the anguish of
her suffering innocence to prove this to him — to prove
to him, beyond a doubt, that the plot to entrap him,
as he termed the proposal for this hurried marriage,
originated solely with the shortsighted eagerness of the
earl, — too exclusively set upon securing his wishes, to
have eyes for anything but their consummation.

But this vindication of Lady Laure in his mind, left
his views as to final results unchanged. And now,
strongly as in the first wrathful moment of his rebound,
he congratulates both himself and Lady Laure upon
the breach which has come at last ! He is convinced of

this, and convinced also that he has not done badly,
considering everything all round, even down to that
affectionate fable that was to make him white and
Lady Laure black, which, however, was not his doing,
but hers.

I should like to know," thinks he, " how that
could have been carried through, if I hadn't gone
off."

With these comfortable convictions to go upon,
right glad is he to belong to himself again. He eats
well, sleeps well, and does not find it unpleasant to
remember that, besides " that heritage of woe " which
has been his lot pretty well all his life, he can now
reckon upon the very agreeable annex of a rental of
twenty thousand a year, more rather than less.

The frontier crossed, Italian battle-fields loom in
the distance. But, though in excellent spirits, he is
not in heroic mood. He has had enough of love, and
feels no inclination for war; and so he takes the
nearest pass and puts himself into Switzerland. There
things are quiet now. The Sitters have had their
brush internally, but, as the good citizens said,
*' Heureusement, il n'y a plus de Sunderland ! "

Once in face of the high Alps, he is fascinated.
It is his first acquaintance, and it is love at first sight.
Here at last, he believes, he has discovered the panacea
for all ennui. Here he no longer chafes with the
languid restlessness which devoured him in the Land

of Enchantment he has just escaped from. Yet here,
also, Nature has her incantations. Here are smiling
valleys, fertile and flower-bestrewn ; green Alps and
level heights and rocky ledges, deep dyed with rose-red
blooms ; and solitary pines, hoary and bearded,
that breast the pass; and sombre forests that shade
abysses black as night; and lofty, lonely pools, the
silent fountains of the mighty rivers ; and rapid waters
rolling down, gathering the sparkling falls of trembling
stream and cataract ; and lakes of wondrous colour,
cold and clear, whose quiet depths swift-flowing rivers
cleave ; ice-walls, and rainbow mists, and stony wastes
and soundless deserts ; and dreadful rocks that rise
amidst a world of awful summits, white-mantled and
sublime ; — and strange and touching melodies — the
pious calls from clanging cupolas, the piercing Alp-horn's
heart-sad doubling echoes, and the sweet ringing
of the cattle-bells.

But here he finds no Siren Beauty to bewilder
hearts ; no faint and perfumed airs to steep the senses ;
no lapping waves to lull the drowsy soul. Here, on
the treacherous snow-fields, across the slippery glacier
and the deadly crevasse, up the dazzling sides of frozen
Pis or Horn, upon the perilous Cols, with the wild
Tourmente darkening all the sky, and distant avalanches
rumbling down, — here Lorraine walks cool and steady.
He does not pretend to doubt if he is walking upon
his head or his heels ; he has no boding and serious
sense of sinister mischance. Here, though there are

fierce suns that scorch and blister, and freezing winds
that scorch and blister too, and plenty of discomfort
and hard work, hard fare, hard beds, — he has forgotten
what it is to grumble and to be weary of his life.

What is the spell that works ? Is it that, amongst
the Eternal snows and the Cerulean ice-seas, the rays
grow bluer and banish human spleen ? Or is it that,
at these stainless heights, so near to the imponderable
realms of space, body and soul become buoyant together,
more subtly toned and sublimated ?

In days gone by, Lorraine, with one of his half-cynical
laughs, pledged himself to a certain performance.
He said, " Some day, Laure, we'll go up a real
mountain together ; but we'll reserve this breakneck
adventure for the appropriate occasion of our wedding
trip!"

Now at last he is having his fill of breakneck
adventure, and, though the season is early, with a
crowning success ; he is getting to serious work — real
climbing, — not a lady's walk.

The guides compliment him upon his ready training
; they admire his pluck and his purse and his
prudence. He is not foolhardy ; he doesn't risk their
lives or his own ; he has plenty of staying powers ; he
takes his ten hours a day easily ; he can add another
five to them, if demanded ; he never grows footsore ;

he has a capital circulation ; he has no need for
goggles ; he is never off his food or his sleep. He
is making a reputation ; he is called " Le grand
Anglais ; " his broad shoulders command extreme
respect. For himself, he has never been so engrossed
by anything in his life.

But, alas ! for the appropriate occasion ; for Lady
Laure and the wedding trip ! Alack-a-day for them t
They have passed into oblivion, together with the
grumbling and the weariness of life.

It is after this healthful and stimulating fashion
that Lorraine moves about by old towns, and beaten
routes, and high valleys, and Alpine hamlets, as yet
untrod by the crowding multitude ; now here, now
there, caring little which way he goes, so long as
snow-peaks meet his eyes, and Alpine outposts are the
limits of his wandering. Everywhere he finds something
to like, something to praise ; — now it is the iced
milk of some shepherd's chalet; now the bread is
perfection; and now the trout. He is too early for
the sweet Valais grapes ; but the fruits in syrup, and
the salads ! Never was a roasted chicken set so
temptingly before him. The people, too, are to his
mind. He is taken by their frank civility, their independent
lives, their manly sports, their wrestlings, and
their rifle shootings. It does not trouble him that

the women do all the work, and are an ugly race. He
does not expect to encounter any amazons armed with
claws amongst them.

Thus it came about that one bright afternoon,
Lorraine, travelling with a venturing, comes down the
fruitfulness valley of all the Cantons. It is a lovely,
sweeping basin, full of cultivation and prosperity.
For the moment, barren steeps and chasms are forgotten,
till, with a sudden turn, all the savagery comes
back as the valley terminates, with a fine dramatic
effect, in a grand breach in the line of rock, through
which the stream that waters it, baulked and pent-up,
rushes with mad force to join the broad river of the
plain beyond.

Lorraine is not very happy, for the snow-peaks are
all behind him ; but there is a famous gorge hereabouts
which he has a mind to see. The place, however,
does not keep him long. The gorge once seen
is seen. The town is dull and prosaic ; due south and
facing the plain and close under the mountain's brow,
it is of a stifling heat, which calls up unpleasant
memories. So the second morning after his arrival
sees him on the move again.

This time he must take the diligence. The venturing
goes no further ; he is bound to bring his horses
back by a certain day. Lorraine offers to make it
worth his while to take him on, but Toni shakes his
head ; — somehow he cannot risk it.

In the grey light before the dawn, Lorraine stands

in the court-yard from which the diligence starts,
surveying it ruefully. It is one of the oldest of those
old machines which, in former days, conveyed masses
of crushed-up human creatures with a lumbering sloth
about the Continent — twenty was the average; and
although the four-footed creatures were in proportion
to the freight of bipeds, the accommodation was not.

Every place is crammed, — interior, coupe, banquette,
and the dark caves behind it, where, amongst
the baggage, at least half a dozen peasants are stowed
away ; all but the rotonde, — there is room there. Now,
the rotonde was never a favourite position, — it was
too dear for the peasant, and too cheap for his master ;
travellers stamped it as bourgeois ; but for people with
money enough, and without pride, — when the vehicle
was crowded, it was much more endurable than the
more honourable places.

Lorraine is of this opinion, and jumps at the chance,
especially as it will not be full even with his addition.
In the half-gloom, he and his fellow-passengers take
their seats, and he closes his eyes at once for a good
two hours' sleep. At the end of the first stage he
opens them.

The sun by this time has put in a cheerful appearance,
but the route is dull. The level river runs
through a rich alluvial plain, planted with grain,
between two lines of tame and uninteresting mountains.

As a resource, he betakes himself to a consideration
of his fellow-passengers. They consist of three

personages. A tall, grizzled, close-cropped, sallow-faced,
heavy Frenchman, in a frogged coat and eyeglass;
of middle age and morose manners, — morose
after the manner of Frenchmen, which must be seen to
be appreciated ; an Englishman might take it to be a
travestie of his own savage realization of the quality.

The second personage is a woman ; she may be
twenty-seven or less — a Frenchwoman is of no age.
Petite and piquante, perfectly dressed, perfectly at her
ease, perfectly amiable ; a mighty lot of black hair,
rolled tightly round a well-shaped head ; the very nez
retrousse so much scorned in Mademoiselle Sabine's face ;
exquisitely coral lips and pearly teeth, — the mouth,
for this reason, possibly, constantly breaking into smiles ;
and long, black velvety eyes, with curling lashes, which
cause the eyes to smile as well as the lips.

The third personage engrossed abundantly the
attentions of the other two ; it was, in fact, a large
black poodle, half shorn, with a wig that might have
graced the bench. Let it be added an intelligence
too, — that would not have disgraced it.

The lady constantly addressed it as " Manchon ; "
the gentleman as constantly called him " Mouton."
It was a subject of frequent well-mannered bickering
between the two as the journey went on.

Tu sais bien, mon pere, que mon pauvre Hegesippe
lea nomme Manchon."

Et tu sais bien, ma chere Valerie, que ton pauvre
pere appelle Mouton."

Besides the dog, the lady had another charge —
a rosebush, in buds and blooms, in a green pot. At
the different resting-places, milk for the poodle, and
water for the plant, took precedence of all the human
necessities of the party.

Lorraine was amused with the quartet — if one may
include the rosebush. It was to this floral impersonation,
as possessed of least capability of active
annoyance, that Lorraine chiefly gave his civilities.

"Ah! you are good," says the lady, as Lorraine,
saving the pot from a fall, on the jerk of a sudden
stoppage, lifts it up from between the lady and her
father, and places it securely in his own corner, stretching
his knee across it.

Lorraine bows.

I speak English, you can see," pursues the lady.

Admirably, madame ! " is the reply.

"Oh, quite little." And then she laughs; and
then she sighs, " C'est du cote de ma mere, elle etait
Irlandaise."

Indeed ! " rejoins Lorraine, mentally resolving to
keep his own kinship with the Emerald Isle out of
sight.

"C'est preciseness pour cette raison Monsieur," says
the gentleman, " that you find us to speak the little
English. Ma pauvre femme ! " Then comes a ponderous
puff. " Ah ! on ne perd pas une spouse sans
bien des soupirs ! — II y a plus de vingt cinq ans, que
je souffre de ce triste veuvage ! "

There is a crushing inference to be drawn from
this melancholy date.

"Au moment meme oil je vins au monde, monsieur,"
explains the lady, with a quick look, which tells the
inconsolable widower that he has made a slip of the
tongue.

But he is somewhat thick-skinned, notwithstanding
his soupirs. He continues to give his family details
with an imperturbable voice —

"Et, depuis ce triste vehement c'est toujours mon
excellente belle soeur, qui se conspire a ma famille
acte de denouement qui touche a l'heroisme."

Lorraine looks at the pretty little Frenchwoman
before him, and thinks the term a strong one. A
maiden aunt could do worse with her life than devote
it to such a charming object ! But, again, when the
physiognomy of the father catches his eye — a sort of
solidified combination of the oil and vinegar cruet —
he is inclined to the admission that the self-abnegation
which twenty-five years of devotion to such a cause
involved, deserved the strongest praise that could be
given to it.

There must be an opening to every acquaintanceship.
Some canine pet, some precious trifle, some
accident of common interest or of common politeness —
it may be of uncommon impoliteness — lead to much of
the unpremeditated intercourse of life, and indeed to
many of its most serious issues. But as for Lorraine,
he thinks no more than to get through the journey

as pleasantly as he can ; and as his fellow-travellers
are not quite commonplace, he keeps up the negative
friendliness thus begun ; in fact, he finds conversing
with the lady singularly easy, not to say agreeable.
They talk of a thousand topics ; chance and ordinary
matters that come up of themselves. The snow-mountains,
and the ice-grottoes, and the waterfalls,
the peasants, their wood carvings, and their costumes,
the hotels, and the charges, and the hot springs.

"Mon pere prends toujours les eaux," says she.
Partout ! " And she makes the " partout " the more
expressive by a quick movement of both hands.

Then she clasps them gently together with a
charming smile, "Mais pour moi, jamais," she adds.

Ah ! " laughs Lorraine ; " that's quite right. It's
all a conspiracy between the doctors and the hotel-keepers,
and as long as the waters are nasty enough,
it doesn't much signify what they're made of — sulphur,
iron, magnesia ; it's all one. But the odd part of it is,
you never catch the doctors taking their own share of
their famous remedies."

"Pardon, monsieur," interrupts the Frenchman,
with a deep inclination of the head. "Pardon! Je
marquette d'un devoir, en vous assurance, que les parties
constituents des sources, sont de la premiere importance!
Par exemple, les sources sulfureuses sont
recommended dans tous les cas de rheumatism, de
tumours, de caries; et de l'autre cote, les sources
magnesiennes sont bonnes a guerir les "

Mais, in on pere," cries the lady, " pourquoi done,
ces details decourageants ? "

]\[adanie a raison," says Lorraine. " The memory
of these melancholy ailments, may be left behind with
their curative waters."

Then, to turn away from an awkward subject, he
begins to talk of his high mountains again ; and to
lament the heaviness of the air of the plains, and
to exalt the glories of snow realm and glacier world.

Je le crois bien ! " replies the lady. " They have
told me, up there it is like the heaven. You feel the
wings ; you are comme les anges, — non seulement on se
sent leger de coeur et de corps, mais en mente temps
raine se calme et sleeve."

"I am inclined to think," replies Lorraine, "all
that depends a little upon circumstances." Then he
gives one of his half-quizzical smiles, and says, " But
if, indeed, it is a general truth, I fear mountain climbing
brings with it a serious responsibility ; — the measure
of oar naughtiness at the top of a snow-peak must
be in proportion to our height above the sea level."

The lady is not quite prepared for this scientific
and conscientious view of her pretty sentiment; but
she gives one of her little sighs and says —

"Helas! I have not the hope to find myself so
high above everything. Je voyage toujours avec mon
pere, et malheureusement a son age, on n'aime pas
a grinder sur les montagnes ! "

Lorraine is about to reply with some polite consolation,

when the gentleman breaks in. It is now his
turn to resent the insinuations of advancing years.

Pour une fille," says he, waving his hand to the
lady, " un pere n'est jamais jeune ! mais regardez moi
bien, monsieur. Je suis a l'age ou Ton peut tout !
Non, non ; c'est la guerre ; ce sont les pleasures rescues
pour la patrie, qui m'empechent reine de bien monter
l'escalier."

"Monsieur est militaire?" says Lorraine, with a
furtive smile.

The veteran bows with a stiffness that might have
been the result of a regulation collar; and to the
bow there follows such a sudden and ferocious stare,
that Lorraine, in his surprise, jerks his head back,
till he hits the low top of the vehicle. It pleases this
son of Mars to see the effect of his fiery eye ; — and he
gives the native of perfidious Albion, a sardonic smile
of triumph.

These warlike signs are so irresistibly comic to
Lorraine, that he is obliged to start up with his head
out of the window over the door.

Ah ! here is the border of the lake at last ! " says
he. "But I fear, madame, you have still many
fatiguing hours before you, unless you mean to rest
for the night at the next place, and take the boat
tomorrow morning."

"Ah!" Well, the lady is doubtful. What does
monsieur mean to do ?

Monsieur means to stay where he is; and

madame and 3Ianchon and the wounded warrior do the

same.

The longest lane has its turning; and this long
journey came to an enl the diligence

drawing up for its final state at an old city just on
the other side of ther boundaries, standing low

and level, where a broad river flows out of a wide-spreading
lake.

Unl all informed, you might take yourself

to be on Swiss ground still, as, once upon a time,

not lone b compatriots of the lively Valerie,

ignorant of her geography, was led to do ; who, when

her francs were valued according to the exchange,

roundly rated mine host and his staff, for their base

deception in bel fatherland : — it was a

cruel circumstance ; — for this patriotic daughter of la

belle 1 had vowed a vow, never - again

therein ! The night, too. advanced, but, though

she must breathe the hated air, she will neither sleep

nor eat, and goes off with the dawn to a more kindly

territory. — Some who looked on smiled, and one or two

sighed: there was such a piteous earnest tnesfi in the

angry dismay.

The hotel at which the travellers put up wi
old mediaeval building, once a convent. The mon

160 PRINCE FORTUNE AND PRINCE FATAL.

cloister still remained, overgrown with ivy, and the
quaint garden, with its sundial and straight walks,
ended in a pavilion, shadowed with tall trees, stepping
out upon the lake itself.

"You stay here, as we do?" says the lady to
Lorraine.

A night or two," he answers, with a slight yawn.
One must stretch one's legs after that cramped-up
inconvenience."

Ah ! I hope more than that little time," says she.
And so they bid good night.

The " night or two " runs on to two and three, and
after that the days are no longer counted. The town
is a sombre place, and the lake is tame, but it is open
and pleasant and lovely in the sunsets. Beyond this
are the attractions of nice little excursions by land and
water, and even a snow-mountain to be seen — at least
its tip, when the clouds will permit.

Imperceptibly, Lorraine fell into something like
intimacy with these new friends, whose names he discovered
to be Colonel Achille Le Bran, ancien officier
des Chasseurs du Boh, and Madame de'Keradec.

Je suis veuve," she says to Lorraine upon the
third day. " C'est triste, n'est ce pas ? " and then
comes a sigh.

The little coquettish air which set off the sigh
gave such an odd turn to the speech, that Lorraine's
tendency to a ready laugh was again desperately
excited.

The next morning, Madame de Keradec proposes a
walk in the garden. " Qu'il fait done chaud ! " cries
she — "nous serons mieux a sombre du bois ! "

The garden had but scanty resemblance to a
wood, but it answered the purpose of one at this
moment.

You will stay here one week more ? " says she.

He shakes his head.

Do not do that, I beg ! I hope so much it will be
possible for you."

"If she is going to fall in love with me," says
Lorraine to himself, " all I have got to remark this
time is, let it be upon her own head. I have no
pity upon widows in search of their second."

Nor upon maidens in search of their first," he
might, with much candour, have added.

Since you do me the favour to wish it so much,
it gives me great pleasure to oblige you, madame,"
says he, — tout aliment, as she might have expressed
it.

She looks up in his face. "You will stay here
one greek ; une bonne semaine, parole honneur ? "

Lorraine begins to laugh. " Parole honneur,"
Bays he, gaily.

u Then," replies she, promptly, " please now to come
into this pavilion, and give me the permission to write
down your nam* ."

"This is advancing," thinks Lorraine; but upon

VOL. II. M

his new principle of washing his hands of the eff
of his fascinations upon women in general, and widows
in particular, he follows her into the old stone summerhouse
which acts also as a landing-stage for the plea-surcoats
which go off from the hotel.

Madame de Keradec has come prepared. It is a
most premeditated scheme.

Xow tell me," she says, " you see I laye pencil
and some paper. Sir Lorraine, it is. How do you
spell it?"

laude comes between." He is still laughing.
Ah! you laugh at me! I am what you call
stupide ! C'est ce pas ? Sir Claude. Ah ! this will be
right. At Lorraine it is you lire, votre terre.
• Sir Claude de Lorraine ' ; " and she shows him her
performance with much pride.

Lorraine sets himself with lucid patience to explain
to the pretty Frenchwoman this insular nomenclature,
the mystery of which not even her Irish descent helps
her to sole.

When the name at length is satisfactorily inscribed,
she takes out a letter, into which she puts the scrap of
paper it is written upon. The letter is evidently one
from herself to some correspondent.

[ay I see the address of that letter?" asks
Lorraine, laconically. He has no idea of his name
being sent about to parts and people unknown to
himself.

"Ah! yes, certainly, mais e'en dites rien !

In the comer. L.L. B.

And pny why," i5>3 fmiiij "me jm

tt By H«tob! d tkmks Lonane. ~ What stride
Render, fix the rest of the day, skill

cue tint he should saxe the May of fang

r'-2.-fi \~~- Ifr :- f: izl :' f broils-!:>- nil:

him the ham ::' ■ nl ■ ;ce

the natal of On IbUbc WlfLfTer fa

]-I.i " .~r if If: .^: :- :' f

I am not going fin here till I get to

Colonel Achille Le Brun scarcely improved upon
acquaintance. He developed more and more into what
his countrymen understand by a vieux groton ; an
obstinate Legitimist, a fierce belligerent at a safe
distance, an absurd egotist, and an inveterate boaster.
He had very few contradictory elements in his character.

Whilst Madame de Keradec talks away, he sits
smoking his cigar and twirling his moustache ; butin
the intervals of her lively words, he relieves his mind
to Lorraine of his political nightmares, and his patriotic
sacrifices.

There is no occasion for Lorraine to give more
than a "Yes " and a " No "or a nod by way of reply.
The old moustache does not desire to hear any one's
political sentiments but his own.

La France, monsieur, avant tout ! You see me to
be here — vous croyez, que je suis ici de mon plein ogre
point du tout ! c'est moi, qui dans ma propre personne
prove toutes les douleurs de l'exil. Pauvre pays ! —
pauvre Paris ! What do you say ? it is now six months
that I do not walk upon the earth of my poor France.
Voici maintenant le cholera qui account se joindre aux
brigands de republicans pour menacer les vies sacred
de nos braves compatriotes ! Tout est sens dessus
dessous ! et voila ces fous qui client : — Vive le diable r
Mort aux riches ! — Vive la peste ! A bas tout le
monde ! "

It was not an attractive state of things, no doubt,

and the warlike colonel, like many of his loyal friends,
had found the key to the difficulties of the situation
by beating a safe retreat.

Enfin ! que voulez vous ; " and then comes his
favourite ultimatum, " Tout vient a qui sait attendre ; "
and, with a shrug of the shoulders, he proceeds to wait,
and to roll up another cigarette.

On the sixth morning, a letter is placed in Lorraine's
hand, whilst he is partaking of that enjoyable and
seasonable meal, the pleasures and the philosophy of
which, English folks, who eat heavily betimes and before
they are hungry — thus beginning each day by a species
of self-destruction — know nothing.

The letter is ill addressed, in an uneducated and
cramped handwriting. It is somewhat thumbed; it
is from Paris ; it has an evil smell with it. It might
well have come from a pest-house.

An indefinite sense of mischief once more seizes
upon him. He has had some weeks' absence of bother
and worry. It seems an age of comfortable respite.
There has been no monotony in it; yet between the
time that went before it and the present moment there
is the gap of an impossible distance. And now this
unsavoury letter looks as if it could bring the two
ends together again with a sounding clash ; — it comes
to him as the very embodiment of bad news. He

drinks off an ample draught of the vin du pays, byway
of a mild fortifier before he opens it.

Madame de Keradec, who is discussing her cutlet
at his elbow, gives a sharp side look at the letter.

Laissez moi voir," says she ; and before Lorraine's
glass is set down, the letter is in her hands under the
tablecloth, and deliberately broken open.

Ma-dame ! " exclaims Lorraine, with a tremendous
emphasis upon the first syllable.

Monsieur," she answers, smiling ; yet she gives an
anxious look at the vieux groton to her left.

Then, — still under the tablecloth, she slips for a
moment into his hand an enclosure. It is addressed
to herself in respectable characters, and is, in fact, all
that the letter contains.

The scene in the pavilion flashes upon his mind ;
here is the clue to it — the clue to the lady's desire to
prevent his departure, and to that parole dlwnneur he
was called upon to give.

It is not alarming and it is not flattering. —

But Lorraine says to himself that the flattering
folly of women he can very well dispense with. Yet,
flattery or no, somehow it is a flat ending to his obliging
gallantry, his suspicious smiles, his defiant nonchalance,
and all that !

It shuts up his powers of talking for the rest
of the breakfast, and now, as he sits thinking over
the affair, it begins to take a mysterious appearance
again. With such a wrong-headed old fool as the

father, in this new love affair of his daughter's there maybe

some need of secrecy and independent action ;

but that Madame de Keradec, a widow of moderately
mature years, and with such a vivacious energy, should
be as much afraid of her father as if she were a girl
of sixteen, this is rather inconceivable.

However, thinks he, " she's not in love with me, or
going to be, that's clear, and that's all my concern
in the matter."

Now that Lorraine has sufficiently dived into the
bottom of Madame de Keradec's mystery, to satisfy,
at least, " his concern in the matter," there is, evidently,
no further necessity on this score for his remaining in
her neighbourhood, ind yet he makes no start ; he
seems, in fact, more settled than he has been at all,
and the truth of the matter is, that he is spending
about as pleasant a time as he ever can remember.
There is not the smallest excitement in it; it is
nothing but hours well filled up.

Every morning sees Lorraine, the colonel, Madame
de Keradec, and the poodle — whom' Lorraine chooses
capriciously to call " Mufti " — en route for some easy
expedition by land or water. There is plenty • of
variety, and the lake in these long summer days is
quite delightful ; and then there is the fishing, —
Lorraine loves the sport and the food too ; and both
are seasoned with Madame de Keradec's liveliness and
graceful little way of deciding upon everything that
II. +-

is to be done, and how it shall be done, and by whom
it shall be done, and, as Lorraine says, " saving everyone
else such a lot of trouble." All this makes him,
for the time being, a perfectly contented man.

No doubt, there are a good many springs at work
behind the scenes : his old inertia ; the lazy pleasure
it is to have such a pretty creature to amuse him ;
the want his six months' breaking in to women's society
has unconsciously created; and more than anything
possibly, the state of absolute security which the
discovery of Madame de Keradec's " new love affair "
lias placed him in.

CHAPTER XI.

VAL^KIE.

Love to his mother went one day.
Mother," he said, " a mask, I pray,
Find now for me to hide behind ;
So I shall seem of harmless kind.
They shun me when they see my bow ;
I make no way with So-and-so ;
But if I once could get a hearing
Behind a mask, why, there's no fearing
But I should better do that way
Than if I came in open play."

The lovely mother smiled and said,
Ah ! Cupid, what a cunning head,
My little fellow, you have got !
You're up to every sort of plot.
But since I can deny you naught,
Take this, 'tis much by mortals sought ; —
Friendship its name. This mask, my son,
Will hide you till the game is won."

It had been raining hard all night, and the day broke
grey, with the clouds low. There should have been a
thunderstorm, but the wind changed, and the storm
rolled off to the mountains, leaving the low rain-clouds
behind.

What bad weather this ! " cries Madame de

Keradec, shivering. " And the lake, how triste it looks
to-day ! "

Lakes, in spite of Lorraine's predilection for them,
are inclined to be sad and shivery spots, unless sunshine
lights up their land-locked waters.

But Lorraine, however, is true to his tastes. He
argues that it would be much more triste without the
lake, and the day is good for fishing. " We should
have netted twice as many lately, if the sun had not
blazed out so fiercely. Is it to be fishing ? " he asks,
looking at her. " What are we to do to-day, Madame
de Keradec ? The poodle, the colonel, and myself are
at your feet."

J'ai bien autres affaires en tete," says she, in a
melancholy tone.

The colonel lifts up his shoulders and his eyebrows.
C'est un mauvais vent," says he, " qui ne souffle pour
personne, les poissons resteront heureux dans l'eau ; "
and he lights his cigarette, and goes off with his slow-march
limp to find a feuilleton to fill up the morning.

You are grave this morning, Madame de Keradec,"
says Lorraine. " I should say it was not in your nature
to be out of spirits without a good cause. I wish my
heavy wits could invent something to enliven you."

Ah ! " cries she, " now that my father is gone, I
will tell you all about it."

Lorraine has an instinct that this " all about it "
is connected with the mysterious correspondent. He
draws back. Next to being made love to by Madame

de Keradec, to become the confidant of her " new love
affair" would be most distasteful to him. He has
become sufficiently interested in her not to light up
very warmly to her interest in some other man. He
points to some people hanging about outside.

Perhaps those people are coming in," says he, ina
cautionary tone.

But she answers, " I do not mind them."

At this moment the colonel stalks back past the
window, feuilleton under his arm, puffing away solemnly
at his cigarette. He gives them a wave of the hand ashe
passes.

"Ah! there he is again," sighs she. "It is no
good."

Lorraine walks up to the open window, and puts his
head out.

It is going to be fine," says he, coming back to
her. " A drive will do you good. Will you try it ?
Let me order a carriage."

She looks languidly up, and shakes her head. " I
could not take pleasure in it ; I have something here "
she presses her hand upon her heart — " you call it
anxious."

I am very sorry ; " and he has the most concerned
face ; " but still, I think the drive "

Non, non ; " and the " non " comes with all her
lively decision. " Pray ask me not to do it ; a quoi
bon m'amuser tristement ! I am better as I am."

A smile creeps into his sympathizing looks.

That's what you give us the character of being
adepts at. Put it down to my English stupidity that
I should suggest so bad a remedy to you."

Stupidity ! mais comment ! I think you very
spiritual, very wise, very kind. I remember always
how good you were to my dear rosier. But for you it
would now be dead ; and I value it so much. It was the

farewell gift of my " Then she looks timidly round,

and breaks off. " And you are so good to be here now.
I was so afraid that you would go away ; and what then
would have come ? Helas ! I should never have had
my letter then ; " and she sighs and looks full into his
face.

She is a most charming little woman," thinks Lorraine,
" and quite as frank as she is charming. Clearly
she looks upon me as a sort of fellow fit for nothing
better than to be Love's letter-carrier. Perhaps I am
getting to look old." He takes a glance at himself in
the dusty mirror ; he becomes reassured on this point.
It is very odd ! " The final thought leaves him the
more puzzled.

Madame de Keradec, after her confiding glance,
has allowed her pretty [eyes to droop till they well-nigh
close. So she sits passive.

Have you seen him pass up again ? " asks she.

"Who?"

Mon pere."

"I have not been looking out that way." Lorraine,
in fact, had been surveying her melancholy pose.

Will you go and see if lie is reading ? He will
be in the smoking-room, I think."

Lorraine is off on the word to do her bidding. He
is her most obedient squire on every occasion ; and,
moreover, he is naturally polite when circumstances
leave his nature alone. Thus much must be said for
him. He comes back, smiling.

No, he's not in the smoking-room ; but he's safe
for the next half-hour. He's disputing, as usual, with
your countryman, the concierge." Lorraine begins to
laugh. " I believe your father, Madame de Keradec,
will end by running that man through; so prepare-yourself
for a catastrophe."

C'est affreux ! " she murmurs. " Cela ne finira
jamais ! " She gives a despairing look to the ceiling.

Have I alarmed you ? " cries Lorraine. " How
absurd of me ! Believe me, there is no danger. Your
father I take to be, after all, a most prudent politician;"
and he smiles again.

Oh, I feel no alarm," says she. " The concierge
is quite in safety, I know ; " and she smiles faintly.
But my father will not let his prejudices to rest for
one moment ; he cherishes these bitter thoughts till
they get more cruel, plus acharnees, plus dures, with
every day that comes. That is the cause of all my
unhappiness."

Harping on the love affair still," thinks Lorraine.

At least, it will keep him away now," says she.
And I can tell you the sad reason of my low feelings
to-day."

"Now it comes," mentally ejaculates Lorraine.

I cannot tell why it is," says she, lowering her
voice to a whisper, " that it is now another week, and
you have no more letters from my brother."

Your brother ! " cries Lorraine. " But I assure
you, madame, I do not even know that you have a
brother."

Et la lettre, de qui done ? " says she, fixing her
eyes upon him.

I thought " says Lorraine, and there he stops.

Then he tries it again. " I thought possibly it might

be from " A singular expression is upon his

face.

She reads the whole thing — thought, hesitation,
judgment, and all. " Un amant ; " and she fills up his
blank, with a quick anger flashing in her eyes.

"And where do you go to get your very bad
opinion of women ? " says she, a deliberate displeasure
following the quicker impulse.

My bad opinion ! " stammers Lorraine.

Yes ; and your very bad opinion ! Sans cela,
you could not have had it in your mind to accuse me
of such a — bassesse ? "

Bassesse ! " cries he again.

She answers him with her eyes on the ground, and
in an undertone, as if she was herself deciding upon
the enormity of the deed. " Selon moi, une femme qui
agit ainsi avec un stranger, en faveur de son amant
commit une bassesse ! "

Then she looks him in the face, and gathers herself
up and clasps her hands. " Mais non ! c'est incapable !
All this long time you go quite silently with this
bad thought of me in your mind ! "

I am very sorry," says Lorraine. He still seems
more surprised than anything else. "How was I to
guess it?" He stands looking at her face, more
brilliant than ever in her excited indignation.

Then he gives a glance behind him. They have
the room to themselves. He drops on one knee ; he
tries to look penitent, yet still he must laugh.

"I beg your pardon a hundred thousand times.
Is that enough ? Will you forgive me ? "

Then she, too, subsides into a smile. Madame de
Keradec's smiles are quite bewitching, with the coral
lips and the pearly teeth before mentioned, and the
long, curling lashes veiling the closing eyes — eyes
that dance behind the lashes like houri's glances
behind a gilded lattice.

You are so useful to me," says she, " that I am
obliged to forgive you. But remember, it is on condition
that you will now for ever think much the
better of women. Des ce moment ! " she adds, lifting
her finger with a pretty air of command.

"With you," says he, "I run my best chance of
doing so."

Madame de Keradec sits contemplating Lorraine
with a mixture of pity and admiration.

Helas ! " says she, speaking half to herself, " quand

un homme est jeune, beau, et riche que de dangers
partout ! "

She reflects upon his ready friendliness with herself,
upon the quick intimacy that he has been so willing
to strike up.

Ah, oui ! " she sighs. " Je le sais bien, il existe
pour ltd des femmes, qui sacrament profiter de tout
cela!"

Then, addressing her words quite directly to him,
she says, with a candid fear and sympathy in her eyes,
Peut-etre, — as you say in English, — you have fallen
into the bad hands."

A flush, akin to remorse — to shame, crosses his face.
He remembers that suffering silence, those crossed
arms, those bitter tears, his bitter suspicions, his dishonouring
accusing, her last sacrifice, her last pardon I
Something compels him to vindicate the absent one y
though all unknown to the woman who speaks to him.

Few men," says he, " have had so little to do with
your sex as I have." And here he stops. Then he
adds, resolutely, " I have been intimate with but one
woman only, and her fault was that she was too good."

C'est un bien singulier default ! — It will never be
mine," cries Madame de Keradec, with an expressive
little look of self-depreciation.

No, certainly not," says he, looking at her
seriously.

You do not flatter me," she replies.

■' Why should I, when truth is the better compliment
? What is the use, in this world, of being too
good for it?"

Describe to me," she says, eagerly, " this too good
woman. I have such a great curiosity always; it must
always be finding something out. My friends laugh
at me — ils disent qu'il n'y a rien que je ne centre ! "

Lorraine laughs at the naivete of the admission.

,; Faites moi son portrait ! " says she.

She is very different from you," says he, studying
her face.

Ah ! mais oui ! cela va sans dire ! "

I mean to say her style is different."

Naturellement ; she is too good for the world.
Must she not then, be an angel ? Regarded moi ! Me
trouvez vous lair d'un ange ! "

Lorraine does not laugh as he might. He looks at
the piquante brunette critically again.

No, you have nothing of the angel in your face,"

- he, " and not in your heart either, perhaps. The
object of your curiosity is the higher type, no doubt ;
and she is something more. She has the dignity of
a queen, the simplicity of a child, the repose of a
statue. You would think all this of her."

Then his voice takes a gayer tone, as he adds,
But she has not the abandon of Madame de Keradec ;
not her brilliancy, not her playfulness, not her vivacity,
not her fascinating influence. Are you content ? " asks
he. " Will you remain yourself ? "

VOL. II-i- N

But before she can reply — for something keeps her
silent — he says, with a laugh, " Possibly, if you could
be both made into one, we might have the perfect
woman at last ! "

Madame de Keradec's countenance has changed
and changed again, as he sets the two pictures before
her. When he stops speaking, she sits tapping the
floor with the slight chamois-tipped stick she carries
fancifully about with her. At last she looks up.

She is your fiancee ? "

She was."

He says no more ; the words sound like a sentence
pronounced. Lorraine is being completely sifted.
Madame de Keradec's friends only did her justice in
the character they gave her.

And you have, then, quarrelled together, and you
are separated ? Certes a sa place je serais resolve,"
cries she.

JSTo, madame," says Lorraine, with something of
his old cynicism. " On the contrary, you would be
consoled."

"You mock at the feelings of women," says she,
looking away from him.

"What have I said?" asks he. "That it is not
in your nature to let any sort of grief overwhelm you ;
that you like pleasures and amusements; that life is
short ; that you will make the best of it for yourself,
and for the fortunate people about you."

But all this you did not sav," cries she.

All this and a great deal more I said — forgive
me the contradiction. I said that a certain amount
of what is called unhappiness is the lot of every human
creature. To some it comes in the shape of downright
misery ; to others in the shape of downright worry.
But whatever form it comes in, there remains still a
bright side and a dark side to everything, and I believe
that you would look steadily at the bright side. All
this I meant by the word ' consoled.' "

It sounded very fine, all this peroration upon
Madame de Keradec's amiable philosophy ; and it had
a most convincing and winning effect upon herself.
But it is still to be doubted whether Lorraine's eloquence
was not slightly the result of second thoughts.

I am sorry in my heart for both of you," says she,
looking at him full of friendliness, and passing over
the praises which were still sounding so pleasantly
in her ears.

Lorraine shakes his head. " It is really not worth
talking about."

"Ah ! I see the truth. Then it is acres tout, only
a bagatelle ? "

He does not speak.

With a quick glance at him and a quick change
of colour, she adds, " Un de ces jours vous epouserez
cette belle jeune fille ! "

Do not prophesy that," he answers, shortly, " unless
you would like to see two people uncomfortable ! You
shall be welcome, madame, to set before me the

enormity of my misdoings ; but you shall not make
serious prophecies about me."

You are a young man — quite young ; and young
men they do not know what is good for them to do.
But you will see each other some day, par hasard peut-ere
; all your love will come back ; all will be M

One more prophecy, and I shall take to flight,"
cries he, laughing ; but the laugh scarcely comes from
his heart. He has forgotten how the subject first came
up ; but he can't stand any more of it, and that's the
truth.

A lot of strangers have just come into the salon.
Lorraine looks round at them —

This room is filling unpleasantly," says he ; " and
see, the sun is actually shining. We are going back to
our blue skies

Then he adds, with a confident and flattering air,
u Come, madame, let me venture to think that I know
what is good for you, and very good for myself. Will
you say ' Yes ' to a drive now

She looks across at the noisy party, laughing and
talking in chorus ; then at the blue sky ; and then at
Lorraine.

He goes on. u We will take Mufti to make a third,
unless we can find the colonel. The dog has been
yawning horribly all the morning, and if something
is not done for him, he'll break his jaw before night.
Come, let it be for Mufti's sake. I own that I — am
all unworthy of the favour."

"I will go," she says, brightly. U Y A it.

I can take pleasure in it now."

"That is like yourself: that is all right. Xow, weare
going to take pleasure in a drive together." and
he touches his hat to her with a half-smile, as he
goes off to make the arrangements.

As he passes the poodle, he pats him on the head.
Poor Mufti ! poor fellow ! " he says.

The clog's brown-blue eyes glisten; he shows his
happy gratitude to the best of hi intelligence.

Poor Mufti ! n repeats Madame de Keradec

The poodle stretches himself at her feet; she
caresses his curly ears. Lorraine looks back with a
laugh. He gives the dog a low call; he knows hi
power over him. The poodle starts up, but Madame
de Keradec catches him fast by the collar —

•'•' Infidels ! " she cries.

Then the velvety eyes grow more velvety, and her
head bends down over the curly wig, and she sighs,
and she whispers, u Oui, mon chien, nous sommes infidels,
tons deux, maintenant tu es Mufti ; le pauvre
Manchon n'est pi

The dog with three names wags his tail, and expresses
absolute satisfaction at the existing state of
thir

After no very strict search for the colonel, the party
of three set off upon their u drive of pleasure." By
English-looking lanes and hedges, more English than
anything else, — after a mile or two the close road is left,

and they enter upon a level and treeless bit of wide
champaign, till again the character of the landscape-changes
into upland and woodland, green and sweepings
any English park.

They have been going with the lake all the way,,
though they have lost it by the bends and falls of the
road. Now it bursts full upon them, with a wooded
island rising just off the borders.

A light viaduct spans the broken ground, and the
strip of water from side to side; a gate stands invitingly
open; there is not even the ceremony of ringing
a bell ; no porters or toll-gate bar their entrance.
They cross the bridge, and gallop up the little steep
and through the shady trees, leave their carriage at
the stables of the mansion, and in eye minutes more,
with Mufti, — who should have been locked up with the
horses, walking sagaciously between them, they are
wandering about as they will, on a lovely island, the
Isola Bella of this part of the world.

It is Madame de Keradec's favourite resort. The
trellised berceaux, the terraced paths, the expanse of
water, the seats to rest where the views are best r
exactly suit her taste and her strength.

"Ah!" cries she, as they stand with the island
rising behind them and the lake spreading before.
"Ah! What a dear retreat this is! See, there is
nothing but the island and the lake. How far it
stretches ! To our eyes it has no shores. Let us make
a dream. Let it be that we three, escaping from all

storms, have found an enchanted refuge in one of
those bright islands that mariners say are hidden in
the lovely Southern Seas."

She spoke in her own graceful tongue. It gave to
her fancy the light turn that made all its charm.

But Lorraine laughs at her sentiment. "Mufti
and I," says he, "find ourselves much better here; and
you, too, would be of the same opinion after the first
twenty four hours. By that time the novelty would be
over, and the dulness would have set in. I should
have you asking to go back to the storms for a
sensation ! "

Que vous eyes prosaique," says she.

"Well, I generally speak in prose myself. You
know, language, Madame de Keradec, is so apt to be
misunderstood; one may as well make it as clear as
one can."

If you had lived in our old Brittany," she answers,
"like me, you would have always the storms in your
mind. And such sweet calms as this would seem to
you beautiful as a dream."

This calm I find no fault with. You will please to
remember that Mufti and I are very well contented
with our present position."

Lorraine turns to her and says expressively, " But
you find fault with our prosy contentment. You will
have all the storms before you get to your calms. You
start badly. Now, I like the calms alone — such calms
as this, remember ; not dreamy calms ; " and he gives a

184 PRINCE FORTUNE AND PRINCE FATAL.

shudder. " I have known them ; they are a burden to

bear, and a prison to break from. As for the storms,

I get out of the way of all of them, of all kinds, to the
best of my power. You see what a very prosy fellow
I am in my tastes ! "

Ah ! " cries she, a sudden shadow clouding her
bright eyes. " Ah ! if only my poor brother thought as
wisely as you do ! I was in a joke, as you say — only
that, — you may believe me. I do not think you full of
a dull prose. If my dear Louis would only get out of
the way of these wild Paris storms, I should have no
sorrows ; but he is always in the middle of his terrible
clubs. He has even fought upon the barricades. I
never know from one day to another what may not
have arrived to him."

Let us hope," says Lorraine, in a cheering voice,
that I may soon have a letter from this unknown
correspondent, bringing good news."

Then he adds, with a smile, and lifting his hand
with a good-tempered protest, " But I have something
to complain of there ! You were hard upon me in that
matter. It was not a self-evident thing that that
mysterious despatch was from your brother ; tout au
contraire, as you would say. There is usually not so
much secrecy about a woman's brother."

You deserved it all," cries she, " quite all, and
yet more. I did not tell you that it was Louis that
was concerned, because I fear always to speak of him
if my father is not very far away."

But naturally," returns Lorraine, getting the facts
out by degrees, "that ought not to increase the
difficulty."

It makes it impossible," she answers, emphatically.

Lorraine brings up to mind the picture of the
colonel, " grommelant entre les dents," as the concierge
said of him, — with his hard egotism and his
obstinate ideas; — and he thinks to himself that the
veteran might prove a very crusty father for a son to
contend with. And yet he has to own that, between
the father and daughter, he has never seen a shadow
of disagreement.

Your father and you, Madame de Keradec," says
Lorraine, with a smile, " are models of harmony."

Ah ! " says she ; " pauvre pere ! il ne fait, que ce
qui lui plait."

Except, indeed," adds Lorraine, laughing, " in the

case of Manchon and Mouton ; and now Mufti has

settled that question, haven't you, old fellow ? "

The dog, thus appealed to, lifts his nose expressively.


Mufti knows all about it, doesn't he ? " says
Lorraine, patting him.

Ah ! yes," says she ; " Mufti could tell much if
he could speak. He would tell you that I have passed
many hours in tears and prayers, begging my dear
Louis to give up these things that he risks, indeed, his
life for. But with my father it is quite different. He
no longer loves Louis ; he upbraids him. Always there

are scenes between them; and now it is guerre a
outrance. Louis being in Paris excites his passion
against him beyond all bounds ; it has spoilt his
temper, too ; un rien l'irrite."

Lorraine smiles to himself at the-idea of the
colonel's spoilt temper.

I have something, indeed, to do," says she, with
a tear rising, " between these two."

Lorraine looks at the brave, tender, animated face,
with the tear standing ready to fall.

"You shall command me," says he, "while I am
here, if I can be of any service to you."

"Ah! thank you," says she. "It is such a good
thing for us that he can write to me through you.
My father forbids me even to mention his name ; he
is so violent against him, and so afraid of being suspected
himself, that if he had made a discovery of
the letter which I had that day from Louis, and could
learn thus where he is, he would, by this moment,
have denounced him, for he does not care if he dies.
Perhaps," sighs she profoundly, " mon pere would feel
a miserable joy if" and then her voice falters.

There is no good in pursuing this hopeless subject.
With the father and son at the two political extremes,
Lorraine can see nothing for the warm heart which concerns
itself so much for both of them, — but to do as he
said awhile ago — to take all the consolation it can find.

It is my turn to prophesy, Madame de Keradec,"
says he, taking a gay tone. " You may take my word

that, before long, you will be all safe and sound in your
old Brittany again. Paris is getting as tired of these
rows as you are."

Then he looks at the elegant and graceful woman,
and he speaks his thought. " But it is impossible that
you can have lived all your life down there."

We are of Provence," says she, " but always we
have been so much in Paris. But in Brittany I have
a little terre, with a small chateau that goes with my
name. It is all wild and desolate about it ; the Landes
stretch down to the rocks by the sea — terrible rocks,
with the great waves dashing even higher still. Ah !
it is a very bleak land, assez triste ; but I love it much."
She looks down at the poodle. " He was born there,"
sighs she, " and my poor Hegesippe is buried there."

A long pause follows. In it, with a genuine regret,
Madame de Keradec devotes herself to the memory of
her poor Hegesippe."

"In summer," says she, recovering her spirits,
"Louis and I spend two happy months together at
Keradec. We bathe, and we fish, and we ride, and
we listen to old stories. They would frighten you,"
says she, smiling. "We have so many spectres
down in Brittany, and there is la vielle tante also.
She tells us always her stories of her old Ireland ;
they are much gayer, but always wonderful. She is
the sister of our mother, and now she is always at
Keradec. She loves it as I do ; it makes her see again,

she says, her own father's house, — it, too, was by the
sea, with all the country wild about it."

Lorraine smiles at the allusions. " You describe,"
he answers, " a most charming life. If you will invite
me, I will come down and share it some day, and pay
my respects to madame votre tante, and to yourself
and your brother."

Ah ! indeed, yes. You must come," cries she ;
4i that will be a pleasure. And you will know my Louis,
and you will like him. II n'est pas a craindre," says
she, smiling. " He is quite like me ; he is only one
year older."

"Not half so dangerous looking as your father, I
would wager," says Lorraine, laughing. " He is very
terrible to behold, when the democratic concierge stirs
his blood ! "

Madame de Keradec shakes her head. "And yet
you may believe me, that he-is the most peaceful man
in the whole world. He hates the sound of a shot
and even the sight of arms. He has given it all up
so long, you see," says she.

Yes," returns Lorraine, charitably, " the colonel's
day is over for that ! " — Maybe, too, it is the daughter's
charms that he covers up the father's defects with. —
Now he fights with words, and not with swords,"
says he.

I like neither," she replies. " If we could only
agree to live without quarrels and without fighting !
I have seen so much of it. I tremble at the name of it."

You are braver in your deeds than in your words,
I suspect. But as for fighting, I am a soldier myself,
and I cannot cry down my trade ! "

At these last words, the magic power of memory
took Lorraine straight away back to that animated
breakfast scene — the last, the very last it was, with
his poor Lucie ! He hears again his heroic verse ; his
cry at the murderous trade ; his remorse at putting his
eye out ! Trifles all ; and yet with what power they
rise up before him !

You are thinking of something ? " says she.

"Yes, I am thinking." And he begins to think
again.

He takes a wide sweep. He goes back to his
boy days ; to his boy friend ; and then, after the long
parting, after the long desire, across the long years, —
to that happy moment when his eyes beheld the friend
once more. He remembers all he felt, all he said,
when, like an apparition from the sky, his Phoebus
Apollo, decked in his bright hair and glancing eyes,
beauteous in form and face, stood glorified before him.

It was a moment in a million years — in far more
in the eternity of things ; a moment that Lorraine
knows can never come to him again.

His eyes fall ; and, falling, meet Madame de Kera-
dec's speaking human eyes, that kiss the sunbeams as
the long lids half close in the bright glare.

Think still on," whispers she. "Do not care for me."

There is more sympathy in this brief encouragement
to his thoughts, than in many spoken words.
As she stands there, silent and sympathetic, she takes
her own place in the thoughts she has bade to flow.
She does not fill up the void left by that bright,
vanished apparition ; but she stands in it.

Yes," says he, taking up the thread of their talk
again. " Yes ; I will come down and see you in your
old chateau by the sea ; and, when barricades are over,
you shall make your Louis bring you to see me, — at
my old chateau by the lake."

You have, then, a chateau ? "

Yes," says he, with a smile ; " a chateau in my
old Ireland."

'• Ah ! mon Dieu ! " cries she. " Vous eyes done
Irlandais ? "

Yes, as you are Irlandaise. Let us shake hands,
as good compatriots should."

She puts her hand in his. " I see it all," says she,
looking thoughtfully at him. " This, then, is the
rapport between us ! "

He holds her hand a moment, and then releases it.
"Compatriots and friends. Let it be friends also,
madame de Keradec," says he, with an earnest smile.

She shakes her head slowly. " There is nothing
certain in the friendship of men with women. Do you
not know that ? " asks she.

I will not know it," he answers, firmly. " Our
friendship shall last for life."

I would not set my happiness upon it," — is what
she has got to say to this large offer ; and then she
looks round. " It ifl growing so cold. The rain has
always a chill. And see those clouds; they grow
black again. It is time for us to go away now."

Let me wrap your shawl round you." Lorraine
puts a marked solicitude into his attention. •'•' Xow, if I
laye kept you out too late, I shall not forgive myself."

They are soon en route again for the return. The
shawls and wraps are all in their right places. Everyone
is made snug and comfortable, and covered up,
even to 3Iufti, who has a large red rug of Lorraine's all
to himself.

Driving in the evening or under the clouds hasa
silencing effect. It is the time for unspoken reflections.
Hadarue de Keradec looks at the landscape.

Lorraine looks at her face. It is very charming, and
loses nothing by the shadows overhead. It has its own
brightness, its own brilliancy. It is not a mirror; it
is a diamond — a diamond impossible to misjudge,
impossible to mistake. At last he says —

'* Let us try that friendship we talked of, !Madame
de Keradec ! I should not make a bad friend, I think.
Will you make trial of me ? I want just such a friend
as you would make."

She looks at his handsome face, lit up with unusual
expression.

'•' You want a friend ! " cries she. * Ah ! that is
not possible. You can have all the friends you please."

u Many friends," he answers. u are not to my
mind. In all my life I have had but one friend —
but one*'

Ah ! " says she ; " your fiancee ! But that is
love, not friendship ! "

Lorraine is not prepared for this rejoinder. It
plunges him again into a trance of thought. This
distinction, so simp] I, is indeed no trifling

shade, no splitting of hairs. If friendship had but
remained friendship to the end !

'• And v thinks he, "' when was it

ever anything more with me

Then he falls to comparing. Here sits Madame
de Keradec beside him, personifying Friendship : .

self-contained, even in her emotions. With her,
he may plead for prescriptive privileges, and bind himself
with vows which he "nail be eternal ; and
he shall still be free as air, hampered by nothing,
iron all ties and complications. And here, in the
background, stands Love — a pale, sad-eyed shadow, with
clasped hands, and broken sighs, and agonized t
and endless perplexity and entanglement.

Lorraine looks up, and meets Friendship's velvety
eyes. They have their language, and so have his.
Then, with one of those senseless actions, which have

but a baffled meaning, he stretches across to the
poodle, and pinch .ky ear.

A low whine from the patient animal brings the

pressed to his senses.

"La, pauvre bete"' cries 31a:! ane de Keradec;
mais qu'a-t-elle done fait ? w

says Lorraine ; ■ I was thinking again,
I believe."

u Always — always thinking of that friend." says she ;
u always your heart is sad for your belle fiancee ! " and
Madame de Keradec sighs deeply.

•• 1" :>u are kind ; but don't ys Lorraine :

I hare no sadness about the master. What I rear
a very different thing. I regret all the mistakes, the
misconceptions, all the pain between us, — this is all I
feel or ever could feel about it : " and he stops short.

But your friend, then — the friend you think always
about

He was the friend of my boyhood. For years we
were never apart. Then, for years we were lost to each
other. Again, by chance we meet. — It was a happy r
ing, Madame de Keradec

LorraiiiT glisten. He is thinking of his

Phoebus Apollo. — n oblivion he he 1 all

the rest of it in !

"And now"* — and hia-inks with the melancholy

word — u now I have lost him once more, and this
time without a hope, — with no chance of another hv
meeting."

vol. n. o

Helas ! " cries she, " nothing can stand firm against
that cruel death ! "

Death ! " echoes Lorraine.

Ah ! then he is not dead ? " says she, with a
bright look.

God forbid ! " exclaims Lorraine. " But though
he lives, he is lost to me all the same."

He looks stedfastly into her face. — " I do not know
why I talk to you of all this, — but yesterday I was
an unknown cipher to you, and yet to-day I bare
my thoughts to you, as I could do to no one else
alive."

He does not wait for a reply; he will fain close
up the subject of his feelings ; and begins a lighter
strain. " Why, here is the town. Is it possible that
our pleasant drive is so nearly over ? Ah ! Madame
de Keradec, how soon the moments fly away in your
company ! "

But she is thinking, — not of his gay speeches, but of
his feelings still. " You speak to me from your heart,"
says she, " because you know, that you have still a
friend near to you — a friend here ! " and with genuine
expression, she presses her hand upon her bosom.

The moving action, the kind words, the velvety
eyes that meet his with a tenderness worthy of the
warmest name, — plunge him back hopelessly into his
feelings again.

He takes possession of the attesting hand ; he does
more, — he carries it to his own heart. Must it not

bear witness for him as well as for her ? He whispers
a word soft and low, " For ever."
A jamais ! " she answers, simply.

And thus Lorraine once more — and how soon ! —
pledges to intriguing woman — his second vow of
eternal fidelity.

Madame de Keradec smiles brightly on the quiet
little suburb, on the homely people, on the handsome
face of the friend beside her. She allows herself some
quiet raptures.

"Comme l'amitie embellit la vie," cries she, "et
adoucit tous les chagrins ! Que je me sens
heureuse ! "

"Ah! Madame de Keradec," replies Lorraine, "judge,
then, how dear the gift that you have given to me ! "

"When we are alone, I will be Valerie for you. It
is the custom with friends in our old Provence."

Valerie ! " He repeats it after her. " What a
pleasant name it is to speak, and to hear ! It was your
name that first attracted me to you, I believe."

My name, then, gained my friend for me. I owe ita
great deal."

Do not be too grateful on that point," says Lorraine,
with a smile.

It is with us a name of the family ; nous avons
toujours eu des Valerie."

The usual official knot stand prepared in the doorway
to receive them; it was the fashionable hotel in
those days. The democratic concierge was in the background,
on the look out for a new arrival.

When he sees the old faces, he turns away with a
toss of his hand, — if the host does not weary of his
guests who make long stays, the servants get desperately
tired of them !

New faces, new fees ; — it is only natural.

In leaving the carriage, Madame de Keradec makes
a false step. Lorraine is swift to receive her in his
arms.

It is nothing," she says, " un vertige seulement ; "
but her voice is faint.

His arm must still support her as they mount the
stairs. " Lean on me," says he ; " you tremble still."

The democratic concierge jerks his thumb after the
retiring pair, the head waiter gives a shrug, the porter
breaks into an open laugh.

It is my fault," says Lorraine. " I have worn you
out, talking about myself."

Incredible," sighs she, with a reproachful look.
How many, then, will have to be the lessons before
you understand the friendship of a woman ! "

And yet," says Lorraine, low in her ear, — " today,
I have made a progress — that surprises me, if it
does not satisfy you."

A ce soir, mon ami, je vais reposer pendant une
heme."

Can you walk ? Shall I lead you into your room ? "

No further now. I am better."

Au revoir ! Reposes bien, Valerie."

Ah ! " sighs she, " qu'il c'est doux de vous entendre
parler ma langue."

It goes best with your sweet name," is his answer.

A look, which is not his common look, comes into
his face. He takes her hand once more ; — his voice is
soft and tender as a lover's.

"And to think — to think," he says, "that I, tonight,
— should be calling you Valerie ! "

CHAPTER XII.

VOICES OF THE NIGHT.

In the moon's light stood a soul set free ; and to it came four, who
cried aloud, " Thou wandering soul, bow down to us, we be thy
masters ! " And the soul answered, " Who be ye ? "

Then one said, " I am Life ; " and the soul answered, " Thou canst
not leave me."

Then one said, " I am Death ; " and the soul answered, " Thou canst
not hold me."

Then one said, " I am Fate ; " and the soul answered, " Thou canst
not harm me."

Then one said, " I am Time ; " and the soul said, " Thou canst not
touch me."

Then the soul cried aloud, " O Life, O Death, O Fate, O Time, yeare
my slaves ! "

Fed upon the ethereal fare of their newly forged ties,
these two votaries at Friendship's sacred shrine had let
the " moments fly," as Lorraine had exclaimed, and so
had missed the dinner hour — not that by the sun the
time was late ; but this was the land of early hours for
rising, and retiring, and dining, and everything else.

Lorraine dined alone, and did not dine amiss.
Madame de Keradec also was not forgetful of her
creature comforts, and did full justice to her pommes
de terre writes, omelette, and demie bouteille, — and revived

and refreshed on the strength of this repast, achieved
a charming toilette, — it was a fascinating blending of
blue and green, which none but a Frenchwoman could
have ventured upon. It became her admirably, set off
her olive and damask tints, and accorded perfectly
with her subdued and sensitive mood.

Lorraine himself was something subdued also ; he
found himself speaking low ; he was more inclined to
sentiment than to satire ; he even sighed unconsciously
as he took his seat beside Madame de Keradec. He
was going, in fact, from surprise to surprise ; his natural
vis inertia kept him passive, whilst he drifted away
from himself, — letting " the great river " take him
where it would.

In keeping with the strange phenomena of this
day's sensations, was his first active step in this new
role of friend-elect.

Night after night, with a filial patience beautiful
to see, Madame de Keradec was her father's antagonist
at the exciting game of dominoes ; but this evening
Lorraine volunteers to take her place.

Keep yourself still quiet," says he aside to her.
Then he looks to the veteran. " Monsieur le colonel,
will you accept me as your opponent this evening ? "

The colonel frowns and stares ; his " Comme vous
voulez " comes with a growl of menace.

If the colonel," says Lorraine, " gives me a regular
defeat, I hope I shall properly keep my temper."
Madame de Keradec sits by, watching the fortunes

of the two players, fanning herself with her sandalwood
fan. Mufti sleeps the sleep of a good dinner at
her feet ; and Lorraine, between the moves, leans back
over his chair, with his hand upon the dog, and his
eyes upon the lady.

Game after game the colonel wins, till be becomes
aggressive in his triumphs. " Monsieur, je me venge
de Waterloo ! "

But Lorraine takes it all with the most immovable
good manners. The more he loses — the more he smiles,
the more the colonel crows — the more courteous he
grows.

This was the smooth scene that the red summer
moon came streaming in upon, making the lamps burn
dim, — through the open windows not a breath stirred.

Quelle nuit superbe ! " says Madame de Keradec.

I think the colonel has humiliated me enough for
once ! " says Lorraine, laughing. " Shall we take a turn
by the lake, Madame de Keradec, so that I may have
a chance of regaining my equanimity ? "

Then, with a mock gravity, he turns to the conqueror.
To-morrow evening for my revenge, colonel."

Ouf ! " grunts the colonel, with a glum grimace.
Qui vivre verra."

They are walking together side by side. Under
the white light the black shadows are still a mantle.

Lorraine stops. " Let our walk," says he, " be
English fashion for to-night. Take my arm ; these
shadows are deceptive, and you might miss your
footing again."

Madame de Keradec tacitly consents.

He lays his hand upon hers to make sure that it is
there, and leaning down to her he says, — " Certainly I
sold my country signally this evening ; no one was
ever more soundly beaten. But I could not look at the
game and you too; and if there had been more at
stake — well, I should still have looked at you."

What a night it is ! The moon hangs in the sky
with such refulgence, that to the eye " with white fire
laden " is indeed no metaphor.

Along the shores, buildings and boats stand duplicated,
distinct and motionless, as if carved in stone.
The darkly azure lake, with its broad silver streak,
shows not a ripple in the sheen, — yet from its bosom
rises the cool fragrance of the eternal snows that feed
its depths. Everywhere rests the fulness of a rapturous
repose.

Ah ! " cries Lorraine, " if this sort of thing could
last without change on its part — or weariness on ours ! "

Ah ! if it could last ! " echoes she.

Well, Valerie," he whispers.

Helas ! " sighs she, " it cannot. You know our
proverb — tout passe, tout casse, tout lasse."

"It is but a conceit of words," answers Lorraine,
gaily. " We will defy it."

It was a rash word, for Fate will not be defied ! —
How close upon our boldest bravado conies often the
chill warning of its mysterious hand !

With a start, as if struck with pain, Lorraine stands
still.

She is startled by him. " Quaver vous done ? "
says she, nervously.

You heard it ? " says he, with a voice all changed.

Nothing — nothing I heard. What is it ? " and she
draws closer to him.

A voice — a voice clear as yours. You must have
heard it. Impossible but that you heard it," he
persists.

•' Nothing did I hear — not the least sound. What
was it like ? What did it say ? "

Lorraine's voice falls to a tone of awe —

It said— 4 Claude my brother ' "

She shakes her head incredulously. " Ah ! it
cannot be. Some other sound, some fancy, formed these
words in your ears."

I heard it all as clearly — as I hear you."

His face grows sad and stern and white under the
moonlight. She shudders to look at it.

Ah ! this is terrible ! " she murmurs.

Yes, it is terrible. — Why is it come ? It was his
voice, sweet and ringing — Lucie's voice, the voice of
my friend ; " and Lorraine drops the hand that rests
upon his arm, and turns gloomily homewards.

But she will take courage ; she will try to comfort
him ; she will strive to drive away this mystery of
the night, which has struck him with this sudden
dread.

"Think not too much," says she, as she walks
beside him, " of this strange thing. These voices of
the night, I know them well. At Keradec, in winter
nights, and even in still summer evenings, I have
heard shrieks and cries as of the drowning sailors off
the coast; and yet it was but the deceiving of the
ear."

It was too clear. My ear could not have played
me false."

Then her hope rises, for she has won him to speak
again. " In our Brittany," says she, " even the stones
speak and imitate the human voice. There is, distant
but by a mile from our chateau, a great stone ; it
stands alone ; it has stood so for thousands of years ;
and when the wind blows — the wind from the west —
you will hear it speak in words ; . not in the language
we speak, for it is a Breton stone, and it must speak
as our peasants speak in our Brezonec. The words are
simple. Sometimes the days of the week — Dilun,
Divers, Chercher, — that means to say, Lundi, Mardi,
Mercredi. But then," says she, " after all, it is only

the moaning of the wind. Dilun ; does it not sound

like it ? But as for our peasants, they have so many
beliefs ; all the rocks, and the islands, and the stones,
and the streams, and even the grass lands, for them

are full of spectres and dwarfs. They will tell you
that our old stone belongs to some malicious little
creatures who dance round the great pillar, and sing
these words whenever they are going to do some piece
of mischief to some unlucky person."

So she talks in her animated little way, with her
woman's tact, leading him away from his disquieting
delusion, yet keeping in the same strain. " But," cries
she, summoning up a laugh, " see, I am making you
quite a discours ! "

The charm of her words acts upon him like a
spell. Already her lively voice has dulled the keen
ring of that voice of the night, has deadened the force
of that startling portent, has drowned the black
shadow of pain, in the pleasure of her bright presence.
Already his strong certainty is shifting into the doubtfulness
of a past impression.

You put me to shame with your courage, my
brave Valerie," says he; "and yet I did not take
myself for a coward."

He stops, he half relapses ; she feels him shiver
from head to foot. As he finishes his sentence he
grows hoarse and agitated.

"It would be hard to tell you what I have
suffered in these few moments since I heard that
voice."

You shall not tell me," she cries, quickly. " You
shall not speak one word of it. You shall forget it —
to make me happy."

If I cannot forget, — I can remember," — says Lorraine,
softly. "Come what may, come omens, come
fulfilments, I have your friendship ; and this is a prize
that every hour I feel to be more precious."

Ah ! est ce bien vrai ! " murmurs she.

His answer is to draw her closer to his friendly
heart.

CHAPTEK XIII.

"EVERY MAN HAS A FOOL IN HIS SLEEVE."

An idle thing is foolish Hope,

A foolish thing is idle Love ;
Yet wide as Heaven is their scope,

Below — above.
All things they do make otherwise ;
Wisdom and folly equalize ;
Sighs in cold hearts they naturalize ;
Earth's worms they lift beyond the skies.

Yet, choose the black, or choose the white,

Or choose life's colours as you will ;
Playthings, or penance, or delight, —

Yet I say still,
That watch it warily as you may,
From Monday unto Saturday,
A losing game its fine must pay,
A bubble burst — must take its way.

It is a very good proverb — the one above, though not
encouraging to our self-esteem. It is as useful,
perhaps more useful, to the wise man, than to the fool ;
fur the fool is not taken by surprise with the discovery;
but the sleeve in which lies the wise man's fool, is
somewhere well out of sight. It preaches modesty
and caution ; it is another word for the old Apostolic
It saves us from playing the fool by showing

us how prone we are to it. It would have us be
charitable, and to know that no man is so wise but
that he may not presently be ranked amongst the
number of the fools. Therefore it says to us, " Judge
not, that ye be not judged."

Possibly some people will say that Lorraine just
now is playing the fool, and truly they may say
rightly. And yet he is no more of a fool than he was ;
and in not anything more of a knave ; and in some
things he is the wiser man. He has realized at least
what it is to be happy — happy, not with a slothful
languor, but with the incentive of an active interest.

These midsummer skies above him are not warmer
and brighter than the sunny hours which are taking
flight, winged with the charms of Madame de Keradec's
endearing society.

Though seasons differ, it is just such glorious
bright weather as when, with a light and lazy heart,
Lorraine first sat under the orange trees with Lady
Laure ; first played at ball with the golden fruit ; first
sat and rallied her in his own lackadaisical, half-unmerciful
way ; first made pictures with shut eyes, — of
Lucie, his boyhood's friend — the one rare solid, in the
midst of the thistledown of his airs and graces.

To-day Lorraine is Lorraine still. And yet he has

not lived from that time to this — in vain ! — If, not in
vain — may be taken to mean, not indeed — a new man,
as the phrase goes— as the snake casts its skin, it is
a sharp process this, which may be too rapid to be
relied upon — the new gloss of the reptile after all, is but
skin-deep but rather, a modifying of the crude cynicism,
the insouciant banter, the impatient judgments
of a fortunate Manhood, that had known as little trouble
as love, — a broadening of Human Experience, and a
small holding made for the thin end of the wedge of
Human Sympathy.

To the Land of his enchantments, where all these
foundations were laid, Lorraine looked back with a
shudder ! He called it a time of weary thrall, yet
that time was the key to all his higher instincts, — from
it dated, his actual life, — with this weary thrall was
made the first breach in his Castle of Indolence ! The
apprenticeship to the better life here below, is but a
thorny trial : — if it is to bear fruits, it must have its
thorns, — there seems no other way through it! Yet
Lorraine's thorns, with any other man might have
passed for flowers — nevertheless, they were very thorns
to him — yet not too sharp — if they had goaded him
too severely, they would have marred rather than
made him. His burden was just the safe and effectual
one that fitted his case. It did not crush out
hope, or destroy his faith in Human nature. In
spite of his diatribes, in spite of himself, it raised
all his standards of Woman's merits, and Man's

virtue ; — it shook his plausible scepticism, to witness
the truth of a spotless passion; — it conquered his
lukewarm egotism, to behold the transports of a
purely heroic soul. When his thrall pressed heaviest,
he must still do homage to Lady Laure's sweet heart.
When his self-assertion is strongest, he must still leave
himself behind, — as Lucie moves him with his rare self-devotions,
his divine self-forgetting, and last, but not
least, with his sublime crazes, which claim a forbearance
that Lorraine has the happy chance, — for the first time
in his life, to give to a fellow-creature, — for the simple
sake of love alone !

In this, singly, lay a whole redemption. Whatever
" this poor Lucie " lost or won, he was, from
first to last, — a salvation to his " dear Claude."

The ancients had the saying, " Contra felice vix
Deus vires habet ; " — Even the Gods can scarcely get
the better of the fortunate ; — and, as the natural man
judges, it is one of the truest words ever uttered about
the fickle goddess. To some she will give nothing ; to
some she will give all. Yet, in this last case, those
who watch and wait till the end, may obtain the insight
that at the bottom of her favours rests something more
meaningful than mere caprice, — which, indeed, must betaken
as a mere form of speech. For to everything its
purpose.

VOL. II. +- p

And the man. whether good or bad, ordina:
extraordinary, who runs his course laden with ben
and gifts, whose good fortune is unconquerable, whose
very loses are gains, may after all be but a spoke
in the great wheel — a unit necessary :

I million souls, but one other single unit in the
great chain of human life.

If in so grand a destiny — for grand it is to help to
and bless — Lorraine has no art or part, he ha-least,
Fortune persistently at his heels.

In his own serious in* : is hard, it is rather

next to impossible, for him to take a false step.

he breaks up the calm he has chafed a gains:

with a wrenching crisis, and departs out of it all, not

only unharmed, but carrying a precious leaden of

good, all unconsciously at work within him.

He goes wandering, with unpremeditated este*
to the solemn grandeurs of the Alpine world. He
betakes himself there, purely for lack of any better
thing — without expectation, without and he

is brought, as it were blindfold, face to face with his
-in — with his first and lasting delight.

This white and lofty land, whose glories are inexorable
cold and silence and grim heights that dare
the foot of man ; — whose beauties are snow-peaks swimming
in crimson clouds, and crystal precipices clad in
luminous mists ; — whose mysteries are the tremendous
seer ime and Life and Nature ; — this land of

Beautiful Death, had at the first sight, an inexplicable

~j«: :-ili — Li-was

it. tint the ana's perfect health

t ::r n: r^T^:: ;: ill
was it that the Eternal

i— ::.i j: - :^:::*.::

i^I Lin:. L:::^: villi n lr? :^r

de Keradffc. It k
:';: nn :::n: :~: r:«:»i
it h ill of a
Yet m this a

L.'rr.^nf ?:*s «~1"j:: :•-:"::: 2'Ii Lin-r It Zfrii^:-
,ni r: :.i:ifr. in nj: Lii :n.-: sir: ::sf> i :shearing
potiteacas to the onetb e i hag eolaaelaas not

one of the smallest. The loftier sorts of uncongeniality,
in times past had driven him beyond all
bounds; but he sits down under this lower form of
boredom with immovable civility.

They are discussing vin de grave and vin du Thin.
They have trout and ices and leckerli de Bale.

It is fete-day and Sunday. The whole world is
keeping holiday. It is the last day of one of the ever-recurring
fairs. Here, where John Huss suffered, good
Catholics are the order of the day. Business and
pleasure are both in the ascendant. The peasants
have crowded in from the mountains ; — gay jackets,
and twisted-up hair knots under black and silver headgear,
velvet bodices, and silver chains are moving about
• 'very where. The men sling their new boots over their
shoulders, two and three pairs at a time ; the women
have portly parcels under their arms ; the children
coax their wooden toys, and suck sugar-sticks and
gingerbread — gingerbread, the earliest passion of
young Germany. Book-stalls and picture-stalls, and
stalls for strange eating and drinking, and for cheeses
and sausages of noble dimensions ; cheap jacks and
circus folk, and jugglers in motley dress.

But, chiefly, there was the brand-new exhibition
of Cherubino and Zephirina, which for the present
is lying perdu in the recesses of a long, covered
wagffiron, with little windows let into the side, and a
stove-pipe running up through the middle of the
roof. From time to time, a man, whose costume

consists of a sword buckled round the waist, and a
brigand's hat and feather, blows a trumpet from
the steps of the waggon, to let the expecting world
know that something will be done by-and-by, and
that they are not to be disappointed. This is
merely the property-man and stable-man in one, cook
as well, and also head nurse to the children. He is
a good creature to them, and is, in fact, the brother of
their dead mother, who, not having much work in him,
has taken to this Bohemian life for their support.

The head of this noble company is Herr Alfaret ; —
the name was chosen for its Spanish sound. At this
moment he is playing at cards in the back of a booth,
and winning the small money largely, whilst some
of the lookers-on are muttering that he is a wizard,
and ought to be turned out, — which impression of his
character is favoured by his extremely thin body, and
long pointed nose.

As to the stars of the exhibition, they are performing
a drama for their own entertainment behind
the waggon. They have large hunches of black bread
and thin slices of cheese, which they eat between the
acts. As yet, they have no gauze and tinsel glories,
no wands or wings ; but this does not detract from the
force of their acting.

Cherubino is a wizen little fellow; but Zephirina
deserves her name, she is as bright and as light asa
rose leaf. They do credit to the manager, for they
are moderately plump and as merry as kittens. At

a safe distance, with some envy in their eyes, stand
a little tribe of the good children who go to school
and live in houses ; but the Histrionic couple take no
heed of them, — they go on with their playing and
singing, quite regardless of this improvised audience.

Undisturbed, they went on playing,
And I marked with what entreaty
Kneeled the mouse-prince, quite distracted,
To the proud cat-emperor's daughter."

Just such may be their game, and they may be singing
as well —

Girofflino, Girofflette ; "

for it, also, is just the sprightly, saucy cuckoo-note to
suit this whirling, twirling, merry and knowing, and
quite infantine pair of wise heads.

The hotel is in the very thick of the finest part of
the affair. Outside of the windows a military band is
playing. Every one is going in and out. All the
rooms are taken ; all the tables are engaged ; and
besides this, the two best salons are retained for private
parties. And presently a grand-duchess, with her
suite, drives up, to contribute her gracious presence to
the general hilarity.

Lorraine is thoroughly engrossed by the scene ; — it
is completely the easy way of amusing himself that is
congenial to him.

There is a side view of the waggon, and of the
trumpeter in front, and of the drama at the back.

"Those are the two children themselves," said

some one, who has just come in from an investigation,
and has lost four courses of his dinner thereby.

What an airy little fairy it is ! " says his friend.
Even in its shabbiness, it looks as if it would take
wings and fly away. It will be bewitching when it
appears on the boards."

The two men speak in French.

Madame de Keradec's eyes follow the speakers.

Pauvre mignonne ! " says she ; " quelle vie ! "

It is Zephirina they are talking about.

It might be worse," says Lorraine. " What they
haven't in one way, they have in another. You may
take my word, that even to a child, there are great
compensations in this sort of life."

"Very bad compensations," she answers, shaking
her head.

W T ell," says he, laughing, " what do you say to
taking her as a playfellow for Mufti ? "

Ah ! no, no," is her quick reply. " There is too
much against that. What would that pale-faced little
boy do ? And I could not have both ; — they might
have quarrels."

Lorraine is highly amused. " Poodle and pet lamb,
you mean ? "

But this is not all," she says, still with her eyes
upon Zephirina. " She will not always be a child. She
will have her own ideas some day. And if they were
ideas that were no good for her, what could I do ? "

You reason like a double-dyed philosopher," says

Lorraine. " But I tell you what we will do ; while the
colonel is taking his nap this evening, you and I
will go to the first representation of Cherubino and
Zephirina."

He goes back to the study of the scene outside.
"Since we can't be in two places at a time," says
he, "and are unable to compress half a dozen pleasures
into one, — I don't know whether these people
are not at the top of human felicity. They are absolutely
content and beaming; you can see it in their
faces. What more can you have ? I suppose I am
not sufficiently hardened to it, but I enjoy the sight of
this pleasure-taking mixture of all ranks together,
almost as much as they seem to enjoy it themselves.
The bill of costs, too — which is the crown of the
thing — is, I suspect, almost as cheap to them as tome.
It is not a matter of who has got the most money.
Down in the South, I used to spend hours looking at
the natives, watching their ways — peasants all of them.
There's a good deal more exclusiveness there than
here, — but that may be the climate. But they are a
savage lot there in the villages," adds he, — certain
rough doings coming up in his mind.

Are they savage ? That surprises me," says
Madame de Keradec. "With us, in Brittany, our
peasants are certainly a little savage, and very sad
also. We have so many fete-days and fairs that it
stops all labour; but the peasants have such triste
faces, you cannot think they are happy, even in the
midst of their amusements."

You must be a singular contrast to your surroundings,"
says Lorraine, with a smile. " As for your peasants,
I suppose they are like certain other sea-bound people,
lis s'amusent tristement.' It is an entertainment that
I have reason to remember you particularly object to."

Ah ! " cries she, with a sigh and a smile. " How
blind I was ! That drive ! How much you had to
persuade me ! And yet it was such a happy clay. The
first of everything is so delightful."

Lorraine smiles again. " To compare," says he,
the celestial with the sublunary, it is like the aroma
of a first glass of this Marcobriinner. The second glass
is a terrible falling off."

She gives him an arch look. "You find it, then,
so ? " is her word.

He lifts his hand playfully in reply. " Nectar,"
says he, " of whatever species, is incapable of degenerating.
It is the food of the gods. It is the essence
of life. Do you understand me ? "

Ah ! what fine words ! " she says, laughing. But
she looks as if the fine words had a very fine meaning.

If they are too fine, blame yourself," says he.

What do you say ? " inquires the colonel. " If
the wine is not good, order another bottle ; " — which
short speech tried the gravity of the two friends.

At this moment, the head waiter, according to
private instructions given to him, to deliver all despatches
arriving for Lorraine at once into his own
hands, placed a letter to the colonel's side of him.

Madame de Keradec gives a suppressed " Ah ! "

Lorraine sees instantly the quarter from which it
comes. It is addressed as vilely as before, and still
more thumbed and soiled. Lorraine exchanges looks
with Madame de Keradec.

Do not open it," she breathes almost inaudibly,
without moving her head.

Not for the world," is Lorraine's reply, delivered
in the same tone.

All this time, the colonel, unobserved by his companions,
is fumbling for his eye-glass. At last he gets it
into his hand, and levels it at once at the letter.

De Paris," says he, in a grunting way, clearing
his throat afterwards, with the same kind of grating
snort. " What friends have you there ? " he asks
abruptly.

Something brings two words to Lorraine's lips ; they
come with a half-smile, with a half-glance at Madame
de Keradec —

A brother."

A flash of colour and of pleasure suffuses her face.
She cannot resist raising the velvety eyes to return the
glance, and the velvety eyes have a wonderful language.

Lorraine has eyes that can speak, too, — only he rarely
pleases that they should. But the Spanish element of
fire and flame is there ; it is not extinct, it only
smoulders, for it has never been burnt out ; — as yet it
has scarcely been stirred.

Let me give you some wine," says he, filling her

glass. It is an excuse for a fuller interchange of this
expressive mode of communication.

As she sets her glass again upon the table, with a
singular act of galanterie Lorraine takes it up and
carries it for a moment to his lips. On her cheek the
rose changes to crimson, — in his dark eyes out come
the fire and the flame, till she trembles — and his heart
beats.

If at that instant their tongues had been as free as
their eyes ! But what is the use of an " if " ?

It takes fewer moments to act than to tell, as such
things commonly do ; and with the next beat of time,
it is all put to flight, by the unmelodious voice of
the colonel. He is fingering the unopened letter,
and turning it over. It has been a part of Lorraine's
manoeuvres to leave it, with a show of careless security,
on the cloth.

De votre free. Hum ! He is a child, then — quel
griffonage ! " he mutters. " Diantre, on lui assert la
tete dans ce nid de vaurien ! "

I hope not," says Lorraine, with a furtive smile.

E'en soyez pas trop certain " — says the colonel,
twisting away, and preparing to address himself to his
other neighbour, an elderly German frau, who, with
her family, takes her dinner habitually at the hotel,
as a Sunday indulgence.

She is, however, deaf or disinclined, and receives
his advances with increased attention to the roti that
has just come round.

Ah ! " whispers Madame de Keradec, " if it contains
bad news ! "

Now, why are you alarming yourself in this way ? "
remonstrates Lorraine. " I am going to put it in my
pocket, to keep it out of harm's way." He speaks with
a motion in the direction of the colonel.

But her fears are up. " Oh, je meurs ! " murmurs she.

He touches her with his hand. " Look ! " says he.
"Do you see that fellow in the crowd, hocus-poussin,
as we say in England, the coin out of those rustics'
pockets, with his conjuring tricks? I'll borrow his
wand ; and all the bad news, if there is any, shall pass
from you to me."

What next will you not do for me ? " sighs she.

What would I not do for you ? " and his eyes
begin to speak again.

Fine words, indeed ! as Madame de Keradec said
just now.

The dinner is a lengthy affair. Being Sunday, the
guests are doubled, and the courses are doubled also.
Half the uttermost of the business townsfolk dine at
this table every seventh day ; and not only are the
courses extra, but extra time is allowed to do them
justice. When at last the tedious process winds up
with the glace a Vltalienne — also a Sunday luxury —
there still remains the colonel's cafe noir, and his petit
verre of Mrschen masser.

But with patience, the two friends are set free, and
are at liberty to retire together, the colonel wheeling
off to the smoking-room.

Come with me to the pavilion in the garden," says
Madame de Keradec. " To-day we shall have it all to
ourselves. Every one is this way for the band, and to
watch for the Grande-duchesse. She has a charming
face, n'est ce pas ? "

I did not observe her enough to judge," answers
Lorraine, in an indifferent tone.

Not observe her ! She is greatly admired. Half
the crowd about here is to see her pass up and down
in her drive."

I dare say," he says. " When I have an opportunity
I'll look at her more attentively ; but seeing
a woman in that passing sort of way makes very little
impression upon me."

Lorraine spoke exactly the truth. He was not
straining after a compliment ; yet it fell like one upon
Madame de Keradec's sensitive ear ; — and what with
his eyes of fire for her, and his no eyes at all for the
grand-duchess, — it was not in her woman's nature to
resist a distant conclusion.

CHAPTER XIV.
adieu! adieu!

There falls a star, descending

Out of its glittering crown ;
It is Love's star of beauty

That I have seen fall down.

There fall from the apple branches

Blossom and leaves so thick ;
They come, the frolicsome breezes.

To chase them with wanton trick.

There sings a swan on the river ;

It steers up and down the wave ;
And ever softly singing,

Sinks to its flowing grave.

It is so still and gloomy :

Blossom and leaf are fled ;
The star is broken and shuttered ;

And the song of the swan is dead.

After Heine.

Madame de Keradec, with whom rested always the
decision as to their movements, for the last week had
led the way — without, indeed, saying why — anywhere
rather than to the beautiful borders of this lovely lake.
In the mornings they had fished, in the evenings they
had sailed, just as before ; but they had not wandered,

arm within arm, in the hush of the rising night, by
the path which made the charm of the hour the
greatest, where land and water met in a cool and calm
embrace.

A week and a day had passed in smooth pleasure
since that sweet moonlit scene, so jarred by Fate's
discordant note, so soothed by friendship's harmonious
voice. Lorraine had turned cold before the one, and
had wanned again beneath the other ; but " Fata via
convenient," and though the poet declares that Jupiter is
King of all. in the next breath he is driven to confess,
that mortal good and ill must fall as the Fates decree.
Save in the term, all human experience bears out the
truth.

But, call it by what name you will — with what
to finite apprehension must appear an unreasoning
inexorableness — to one is apportioned sorrow and
tears, to another smiles and joy. So it has been, is,
and will be, from the beginning to the end.

Vague words! which tell only of meetings and of
partings, of chains of birthdays and sepulchres; of
Time-fate's black Empire, with its two doors of Life
and Death, for entrance and escape. Beyond the
comes tin' realm "t' the Unknowable — the realm also
of Faith and of Hope, and to Borne also of Resignation,
and to some air.

But let there be very few— rather let there be not
one of these last. Those other three have wings — not

bright alike, but even upon the duskiest pair the soul
of man can bear itself up and onward to its Aftermath ;
and after this wise, if we will, we may remain children
to the end, that is, to the end we wot of, in happy
ignorance of the Before and After.

It is a good thing to close all thoughts with a
word of cheer ; let childhood be that word now. There
is pretty Zephirina, and Cherubino with his pale little
face, to show us what childhood even, can do for itself.

They walked softly out of the house by the glass
doors which led into the garden. They would ;not
attract, by a sound, any eye ; but there was no need for
these precautions — the spot was quite deserted. Now
they walk into the shade of the trees. On a day that
seems now very far back, Madame de Keradec had
called this " sombre du bois ! "

She halts for a moment in this place of repose and
quiet, and Lorraine's quick ear convicts her of a sigh.

Why do I hear you sigh ? " he says. " Will you
not have confidence in my assurance ? "

Ah ! " cries she, " ni l'un ni l'autre nous ne
sommes le Tout Puissant ! "

And then they enter the pavilion.

In such a summer day as this, no temple, consecrated
to Friendship or to any other tender and gentle

divinity, could be imagined more coolly seductive
than this stone pavilion by the lake.

The pebbled floor, in gay mosaic, contrasts with the
dead half-shade of the walls ; the frescoed roof, rising
groined to the centre, displays in airy attitudes groups
of partially draped figures suggestive of repose and
abandon — Christian seraphs or pagan nymphs, as taste
or fancy may decide ; the stuccoed eaves keep out the
sun ; the birchwood seats, carved with the flow and ease
of the pure art of the country, are at the right angle
for reclining; two little tables are models to tempt,
beyond resistance, the fanatic for the like graceful
gimcracks; a serpentine recess, retiring into gloom,
shows some cleverly simulated stalactites, bluish,
greenish, and white; a small fountain flows over into
a tank, helping the delusion ; faint rays of light slant
in from deep and irregular slits and openings, through
which nothing but the watery element beyond can be
discerned.

The mind which designed it all — lived in the body
of a poor house decorator, aged eighteen years. He
lay awake dreaming out his conceptions, and, rather
than give up the costliness which they involved, he
gave his work for bread alone. He was a true artist,
but for lack of expansion for the genius that burnt
within him, he sickened and died. He left this
pavilion behind him for his sole memorial. For the
rest, he was an orphan ; even his name is forgotten.

This retreat is a sort of aqueous bower ; it enlists

VOL. II. Q

the three elements to complete its charms. The cool,
soft airs that fill it have the freshness of the lake that
washes it, and the fragrance of the lime trees that overshadow
it. And what a panorama spreads out before
it! What a foreground ! What a far-off ! Unspeakably
distant, yet unspeakably distinct, in the clear ether
hangs one shadowy snow-peak, putting summer clouds
to shame with its transcendent whiteness ; from water
to sky rise the feathery fir forests, confounded at last
with the mountain's purple sides. To the right is the
sweep of the level shores, the grey little cities set like
landmarks along the margin, and far and wide in the
midst — is the lake, gleaming in the sunshine, gay with
its steam craft and light shallops, and decked in its
Sunday best.

Alp with hoar head of snow,
Lake with soft eye of blue,
Hills with black-crested brow, —
Oh what a laud for you ! "

So exulting to his heart, cried one homebound, hither-returning
wanderer.

There is no wonder that the sons of these lands
of "the mountain and the flood" make the fondest
patriots in the world. The wonder would be if they
did not.

Oh how cool and fresh ! " says Madame de
Keradec. " Quel plaisir, after that hot salle ! "

Lorraine puts a chair for her in the most inviting

corner. Then he sits down beside her with his eyes
upon her.

"Valerie," says he, "I have never been so happy
before in my life, and yet I cannot remember to have
had a single sorrow ; and not until now," he adds,
lingering upon the words — " not until now, one taste of
real delight."

These are moving words, and yet Madame de
Keradec is slow to answer to them.

Then he takes her hand in his. " If you do not
share my happiness," he says, " you will destroy it."

First, I will read my letter," she answers, " and
then I will be happy, if I can."

"Not yet, Valerie. Sit awhile thus." He throws
off his hat, and pushes his hair off his forehead.

She releases her hand, but he will not have it.

No, no ; bring back that captive. I cannot spare
that little hand ; — it shall make me happy, though you
will not."

But she is restless. " Give me the letter," she
entreats.

Five minutes more ; give me five minutes more."

So, clinging to the safe side of things unknown,
clinging also to the new passion springing up in
his heart, — Lorraine fences off the inevitable.

Not till I know the worst can I be happy without
fear."

Why the worst ? Let it be the best ! Why will
you fear so much ? " says he, a shadow coming into his

I cannot tell," cries she. " It seems to me as if I
must lose everything — everything ! "

Slowly, with averted eyes and unwilling hand, he
puts the letter into hers, stretched out eager to receive
it.

He will not look on as she reads. He gets up and
goes half-way down the landing-steps. They are six in
number, broad and low. Here the oarsmen of the
pleasure-boats sit through the morning, waiting for
their fares from the hotel. The water laps the wall
of stone with its soothing rise and fall, murmuring to
the ear, and telling its calm tale of the great river
sweeping through its depths.

As Lorraine stands, eyes fixed, ears fascinated by
the watery companionship, the moments seem petrified
to years. He sees, as it were, nothing ; he stands in a
maze, full of strange, unfathomed feelings. So he
stands until his trance is broken up by a cry from
Madame de Keradec.

In a moment he is at her side ; he puts his arm
round her.

Bon Dieu ! quel malheur ! " she murmurs.

What has happened to him ? " cries Lorraine.

Nothing, nothing ; he is safe as yet." She takes
his hand and looks mournfully into his face. "Was
he like you ? Ah ! how sad ! how sad ! "

A shudder creeps to the roots of Lorraine's hair ; he
frowns without a word.

"I knew there was bad news," she says. She is

still looking at him with her pitiful eyes. " That brave
young Englishman ; you might have known him —
dying — dead now ; and so cruelly."

Lorraine's lips blanch white as the snow-peak.

His name ? " He is choked for more words.

Ah ! there are no names. It would be ruin. But
he is the dear friend of Louis."

Now her tears must flow. " If I had not known
you, I should have felt it less," she says. " You are
not like any one else ; and Louis says he was not like
any one else ; his face was so beautiful ; — such wonderful
hair, golden as a child's ; such eyes, so noble in his
soul ; his thoughts so burning. Louis forgets all to
write of him."

Then she wipes away her tears, and adds, with a
deep sigh, " Et avec cela, le coeur si tendre ! "

Lorraine has stood staring and listening; now he
grasps her hand till the blood stops flowing.

Fly God ! " he groans ; " it is Lucie ! "

He drops her hand, drops his arms, stands like a
man changed to a statue.

She comes to his side ; she seeks to know the truth
of this new trouble; she would lain say to him, "Do not
be so ready to fear ! " She desires to give him back all
his consoling arguments ; but she sees that he is not to
be spoken to, that it is more than he can bear, that be
is filial with a dread — or a certainty, that surpasses
all her powers of consolation.

He, on his side, shrinks back from her, shuddering

Once more he goes away to the steps by the lake, this
time to throw himself down, and to bury his face ina
hands.
She. looking after him. with eyes brimming with
deep pity, creeps softly back to the darkest corner of
the pavilion. Here she will wait with sad patience.
until she can learn more, until he moves, until he can
bear to speak and to be spoken to.

She takes up the fatal letter : she reads once more
the harrowing story it tells. •'•' Ah ! it is terrible,"
sighs she — " terrible ! This poor young man ! But he
may be mistaken ; he may be quite wrong in all his
f earlier
eyes fall again upon the letter ; she tears it
into small atoms, and so doing, she gathers up the
pieces of this evil messenger, and, going into the
grotto, scatters them out upon the lake.

•• Whatever it may be, — these miserable words he
shall nev

But with the act the sit ip. " Men

pauvre Louis ! " she cries. " Adieu a ta lettre cher

For Lorraine it seems that the tragedy of his life
has come ; but although he is not shaken by a ray
of hope in his questionless dismay, yet at present he
is only dazed by it. Everything is va m to the

being whose unravelled fate it all involves.

The horns go by ; the day wanes ; and still these
two are chained. As long as he stays, so long will
she stay. As long as he is silent, so long will she be
silent. She has patience, she has pity, and she has
son-rtLiLi; 11 ::s.

TL~ ran sinks low : the zl^izzlz.z lake
-1 1 :LtL -t . -> :•; 1 !:•:■! :-l-i.:tt1 -;:
lis m! ;.- -; s=:i:\:s nl-::.;:.r. ':. rs-^n.,: 1:
T r ::ln- 1 £ ;•:•.: liss sir 11- n .-, >-:. ::' :■ :• >L

goes down the day, and slowly the twilight
deepens, till all is again transformed. The dark
;,-.:;l s-« ~:1t1 ii.-.-: i is>tS. :ir z-:j •";- 5il::« —'.:

.' i'd: £; " ." . : ." : . !li -

?L.v.I:-s .'. — - r- r: il :;t t : - : - - ' - -' ;' r I:
:s a : :: ■ :■: ••—.—:■: ;:::::" : : : :- : t ;!.? ■
: j s t:'s 1 .7 1: ■:- :his : - - is

It is all gone! — sunset and twilight, eokras and
-

lis s: \rs :.:s " : : :is :.:^i-' 1: : - I11 ill
still, with no sound bat the
until, as the night wears on, the
::—T . '. .!> : :1 : '.--.-> 7 : :

i" :i- .1:. .1 1 :i : ^:: i : 1?:. l:l«:s \ lels/rei i"tS1 : t
•\ and Mis foil

Madame de Keradec has sat so long, — with all
things around her changing into the gloom of night.
She may have been sleeping, — she may be dreaming ;
she sees a black, monumental figure standing between
her and the white moon. She is born brave, but
the strain has been too much for her. She gives a
smothered cry.

A hand is laid upon her shoulder. "You here
still?"

Her dream is gone now, for it is Lorraine that
speaks.

Her heart bounds to his words. She whispers,
hoarse with long silence, " How could I leave you ? "

It is not fit for you to be here," says he ; " you
should have gone in long ago. It is night now."

He speaks simply, with no word of what he fears
or of what he feels — only in his voice is the echo of
that which is within him.

It is dark under the trees ; he guides her out of
the pavilion, and up the narrow paths.

I have much to say to you," says he. " Where can
I say it ? We must be alone."

She is silent for a moment. They are now in the
vestibule of the house. She looks up and round. Then
she says —

There is nothing else to be done ; you must come
to my own room."

As they walk up the stairs — he after her — they
meet the waiter who does the service of her floor.

Light my candles," says she, " and draw the
curtains over the alcove."

The man obeys. " Encore ? " he asks.

Merci," she answers, but her voice has a tremble
in it.

Then he leaves the room, and bangs the door to
behind him, as is the wont of his class.

She throws off her shawl, and stands eyeing Lorraine
from a distance.

He draws two chairs to the table, where the lights
stand.

Come and sit here with me," he says.

So she comes and sits beside him.

What is your brother's address in Paris ? "

She looks askance at him without replying.

He lays his hand firmly upon the table. "You
must give it me, now in this moment."

But why— why ? " falters she.

A look of impatience crosses his face, and then
comes one of pride.

If I am not fit to be trusted," says he, haughtily,
I will go without it. It must be a hard search if I
don't find it at last."

Ah ! it is not that — not that," she cries, with a
look of despair. " But do not go ; do not go ; it is so
dreadful there. You do not know how terrible things
are there."

Not more terrible there than here — for me now."

But there is fighting and killing every day ; " and

then her voice sinks into a tone of terrified awe. " And
there is now this sickness to make it worse. You will
not go there in face of this horrible disease ? "

Why should you think that I am the only man
you know who dares not face fighting, and sickness, and
death, if needs be ? "

She is silenced.

Soon she speaks again. " Do not believe all you
fear. Do not be so sure of this great trouble. There
are so many more of your brave countrymen, — young
and "

"Be silent, Valerie," says Lorraine. "You only
distress me ; there is no hope, and I know it. And now
let us speak only of what is of some use. Comfort, just
now, there is none."

She persuades no more. She takes his hand, and,
leaning her head over it, the hot drops fall thick upon
it. Presently she looks up at him.

Let me go with you ! " says she.

The tears are streaming down her face.

What ! and leave Mufti and the colonel to their
fate?"

He touches her cheek with his cold hand. It is no
damask cheek to-night.

A smile follows his words, sad enough, but still it
is a smile.

My brave and tender Valerie," says he, and he
says no more.

For one half-hour longer they sit together. She
proves herself as brave as she is tender ; she helps him
all she can ; tells him where Louis may be heard of — it
is the old address — traces the journey ; reckons up the
time it must take ; prays God to be with him, to spare
him, to protect him ; speaks of everything — but herself.
She burdens him with no promises, and makes
no protests. She intrudes nothing upon his sorrow

but her sympathy and her aid and yet she loved

him.

At last comes the farewell. What can be said of
it? A woman's burst of tears; a strong man, half
broken down ; — a first and last embrace.

He is on his feet ready to be gone. He looks at his
watch. " It is not ten. How long the night will be ! "

Then he looks at her. " You are worn out. Go to
bed, try and sleep well."

Ah ! you know," she cries, " I cannot sleep tonight."


Try," he says. " I am going to leave you now, at
once, Valerie."

One moment more," she entreats.

He shakes his head. " It will do no good," he
says.

His face is like marble, his mouth curving with
emotion, the depths of his dark eyes gleam with many
feelings, his dark hair pushed all back bares his broad
forehead. He stands erect in his firm resolve. Never,
in the lazy days of his handsomest smiles, had Lorraine's
face come up to the noble beauty of this
moment.

For many and many an after year, Valerie de
Keradec called up the memory of this night, this face,
this friend, this farewell.

And so Lorraine goes at once. It is a hard struggle.
He does not concede that moment more ; — he dares not
concede it. He dares not to take even one last look
as his hand touches the door. His heart is resolute,
but his head whirls as he opens and closes it again —
closes it upon this woman who loves him, this woman
he has been so far more than near to loving.

He confronts a lot of people : the waiter of the
floor, and the porters with luggage, and the chambermaid,
and the democratic concierge, — who has been
conducting a party of late-arriving travellers to their
rooms.

They make way for him to pass with obsequious
respect, but when his back is well before, they indulge
in significant innuendoes.

"Elle siamese bien," says the adverse concierge,
munching his shoulders ; " pendant que le vieux cochon
dort en bas ! "

Ah ! well. This night—

An angel might have stooped to see,
And blest her for her purity."

CHAPTER XV.

CONFLICTS.

Into the darkling night ;
Down by the seething shore ;
In the whirl and the sweep and the dash
Of the hurricane's staggering lash ;
In the thunder's deafening roar;
In the flash of the forked light,
As it flares over land and sea,
As it glares over thee and me ;
Come away !

Into the crimson field ;
Under the cannon's din ;
In the horror, the rage, and the pain
Of the struggle 'twixt slayer and slain ;
Where murder is counted no sin ;
Where the heart to mercy is steeled ;
Where blood, as a gory sea,
Is flowing round thee and me ;
Come away !

Into the golden ring,
Where honour is lost and won ;
Where a Nation's rule is the prize,
And a Nation's fate underlies ;

Where great deeds are done and undone,
Pygmies and giants contending ;

Where the end no mortal can see ;
While they bear along thee and me
Come away !

Into the darkened room ;
Into a presence of Might ;
Into the hush and the sorrow
Of a moment that knows no morrow ;
There face to face with the sight
Of man and his mastering doom —
Doom of the slave and the free,
Doom both of thee and of me ;
Come away !

How long the night will be ! " was Lorraine's cry.
And what a long night it was ! But as yet the whole
desolateness of its dreary length had scarce set in.

In the immediate present, urgent matters engage
his attention. There is much to find out : the mode
of travelling ; the earliest moment for departure ; the
shortest route ; his place to secure in the public conveyance,
if there is one ; and after all this, his bill to
have made out — it is a long reckoning, and these
good people can do nothing in a hurry, and they have
their own roundabout way, too, of giving information.

Lorraine pushes impatiently through it all ; but he
would have done much better to have spun it all out.
Listening to this one and to that one, or to every one
talking at once, was, in his own way of speech, a simple
nuisance ; but the silent company of himself and his
harrowing feelings, would probably be a trial that
demanded far greater fortitude.

He was very soon able to make the comparison,
for, the particulars of his journey once mastered, and
his bill paid, he finds the salons below suddenly
darkened, and there is nothing left to him but to

retire to his own room. The window opens on to a
long stone corridor which overhangs the lake from the
second story. The old monks, no doubt, said many a
midnight orison up and down in it, — and Lorraine has
found it the very spot for a midnight cigar. But
to-night he is equal to nothing that takes the form
of enjoyment.

He leans over the moss-grown parapet, looks up
at the sky and down at the moonlit lake. It gives
him no comfort, lovely as it is ! It is too calm, too
fair, too white and still. It falls like a weight of ice
upon the restless fever that fills his heart.

He turns from the scene, and paces up and down.
The moonlight streams in white through the open
arches cut at each pillar by the black shadows of the
stonework. He walks till he is nearly dazed, in this
alternate shade and glare. At last, he betakes himself
to the narrow limits of his room. He shuts to the
window, and lights his candle. Here, with two chairs
and a table, there is nothing to daze — nothing to
distract him ; and here he sets himself, with a
desperate resolution, to revolve all the chances that
may have happened, all the disasters he may be going
to discover — all the fears, all the hopes.

Heaven knows, there are few enough of these last ;
he cannot doubt, much less hope. Was it not Lucie's
picture to the life ? — that beautiful face, that wonderful
hair, those ardent eyes, those burning thoughts,
that tender heart ! — Yes; it is Lucie; — Lucie, and no

one else. He has escaped away to his mad designs.
And all those safe measures, those contenting results,
which were to make all things square ? Thrown to
the winds ! Idle words ! Worse, — far worse !

Then, from his own regrets and remorse, he rebounds
against Lucie's madness ; against the miserable
plotters that have entrapped him to his destruction,
that have survived to send about sentimental pictures

of their dupe and victim ; if the miserable plotter,

if the hand that penned this picture is Valerie's
brother ! What of that ? The transports of his indignant
grief will concede nothing; he would have
hailed with savage joy the like retributive destruction
upon the head of every one of them.

So, in bitter helplessness, he kicks against those
grievous pricks, and the longer he thinks the more
he fears.

He is dead — this is the word that he arrives ever
at — that he comes always back to. His conviction is
certainty. Still, he will go — go at all costs. He will
search him out. In Paris or out of it, living or dead,
he will find him he will know the worst.

With this — Know the worst, — his mind darts back
to that ill-omened letter. She said — she must know
the worst! and he — he said this worst should be for
him. Heavens ! What a worst it has proved ! And
then he hardens, even against the friend he has just
left in tears. But it is not for long ; — that tender face,
that brave heart, come up before him; and those

VOL. II. K

hours of happiness — hours that he would have bid
stay on for ever.

Ah ! Valerie, Valerie ! " he cries ; — and he falls
into a waking dream of a lost love.

He dreams, but as yet he does not sleep. Then
he throws himself upon his bed ; the heart-subduing
theme calms his restless nerves, till the world and its
good doings, and its bad, sink into a blessed oblivion.

The day still tames, the black shades are not yet
put to flight, — when a noise rouses him with a start. He
experiences that momentary scare, which to a traveller
supersedes for the time all major and minor considerations.
The diligence is setting off without him !

He hurries up and down in a breathless state of
irritation, — but only to find the house absolutely quiet,
and the drowsy night porter loudly proclaiming his
slumbering unconsciousness. But Lorraine will not
be satisfied; and he wakes the man up and makes
him open the door.

There it is ! " cries Lorraine, as he sees the dark
form of a lumbering vehicle across the road.

Betide ! " is the unceremonious reply of the yawning
functionary. " With two horses truly. That is
how the Poste travels, is it not ? "

Lorraine can neither see one horse nor six ; there
is not light enough for that.

What is it, then ? " he asks.

What should it be but the new Exhibition ? The

waggon must clear off before daylight. If they had
wanted to stay longer, they should have arrived
before."

Cherubino and Zephirina ! " cries Lorraine again.
" Ah ! " and with this interjection he walks'without
delay across the road.

The trumpeter, minus his sword and plume, is
harnessing two very wretched beasts to the waggon —
a tall, lean, big-boned chestnut horse, with a hairless
tail ; and a small, white — very dirty white pony. The
pony is in the better condition of the two, being of
the hardier race; but it has a piteous raw upon the
shoulder.

The first question Lorraine puts to the trumpeter
is the reasonable one of how he is to make himself
understood. His acquaintance with the grand Teutonic
is limited to " yes " and " no," and half a dozen nouns
for the necessaries of life.

But the trumpeter hastens to give the satisfactory
reply that he can speak the French language, " assez
bien."

Thereupon Lorraine proceeds with his intentions.
He learns the whole history of the children ; and of
the dead mother ; and of the good-for-nothing father,
who is alive and well, " meme riche!" somewhere ; and
of the uncle's efforts, after his kind, to support them :
and of the tremendous talents of the small artists.
especially of the graceful Zephirina. And then the
trumpeter rubs his hands and cries, " Mein Got ! "'

and declares his triumphant belief that, as for Zephi-
ring, " Elle fera notre affaire un de ces jours ! "

Lorraine's face does not reflect any of these sanguine
expectations. He shakes his head compassionately.

Meantime, this conversation outside the waggon has
disturbed the sleepers within it, and, by the lantern
hung above the door, two tumbled little heads are
seen peeping round it, — yet half hid by the bony
haunches of the chestnut horse. Lorraine's heart is
altogether melted by the sight of these two sleepy,
shivery cherubs. He goes up the steps of the waggon,
and, taking Zephirina in his arms, her tiny bare feet
dangling in the air, he gives her two kisses. But
when he sets her down, she goes pattering to the back
recesses of the waggon to find the less courageous
Cherubino, who has run there to hide at the sight of
the strange man's face, and dragging him out, she
insists that he, too, shall be kissed.

Lorraine empties all his German money into the
hands of the devoted uncle. This worthy person
pockets it all without scruple. Why, indeed, should
he have any scruples in so good a cause ? But he has,
all the same, a look of furtive anxiety upon his face.
He clears his throat twice, and then lets fall the
caution that should the monsieur have the pleasure
of meeting Herr Alfaret, perhaps he would be so kind
as not to mention these trifling sums which have
passed into the hands of his assistant. — The word
trifling " is entirely in the intention of Herr Alfaret.

Lorraine understands it all, and sets all anxiety
at rest upon this score. But he hazards the question
of " Where, then, is Herr Alfaret ? "

The question is answered with another. "sein
Got ! Does any one expect that Herr Alfaret is sleeping
in the waggon ? No ; he is to be picked up at
a gaston in the town. Herr Alfaret is manager of the
Exhibition ; he does not live as they do ! "

But why not take the children about yourself ? "
says Lorraine. " It seems to me that Herr Alfaret,
at his inns, must eat up all your earnings."

"Each ja! and does he not? But there must
always be a manager, and the manager must always
have the air of a superior person ! And, for the rest,
how could he, Franz Jacob, set himself up with a
waggon and pair ? "

It was an unanswerable argument. But Lorraine
goes away, meditating that, as in some other cases, the
beast of burden — is the worthier animal of the two.

The interlude with the good-hearted Franz and
his orphans has been a godsend. The poor vagabonds
have absorbed something besides his money — they
have taken up both his time and his thoughts. And
as he turns to wave his hand once more to the three,
looking after him with smiles of wondering pleasure,
he sees the welcome dawn breaking up the eastern
horizon.

It dissipates but little gloom at present, and he
is almost ran over by the six horses of the diligence,

which at last comes rattling up, punctual to its
appointed hour.

Lorraine glances up at the house. The lazy
shutters and blinds are all close and fast. Her room
is to the garden. He passes in again, and out by the
glass doors. He will take a last look. Here the blinds
are up, — no curtains drawn; she has not cared to entice
sleep. The open panes stare blankly at him; but
there is no Valerie.

Adieu ! adieu ! " The passion of another farewell
rises in his heart, gleams in his eyes. " My brave
and tender Valerie — Adieu ! adieu ! "

It is time to make the start. With an effort, he
turns from the window. He walks through the house
with a quick step. He must pass the porter's room ;
the door stands ajar. A long whine wakes the sleeping
echoes of the lagging day, and Mufti is on him ina
trice, seizing him by the leg ; he does not use his
teeth, he merely holds on.

Poor Mufti ! poor fellow ! " says Lorraine, regardless
of the leg and its covering.

He stoops down, and holds the poodle's head
between his hands. " Take this to your mistress,
Mufti," says he, touching the curly head with his lips.

Lorraine is liberal with his kisses to-day ; he gives
them right and left ; and yet it is not his instinct.

But these kisses are given, not with the lips, but
with the heart. They belong all to a cheek, unseen

yet filling him with a moving emotion — a cheek —
pale with the purest sympathy in his sorrow — wet
with the tears of a passionate farewell.

Mufti acknowledges his kiss with a grateful wag of
his tufted tail. Then he gives a lick at the friendly face,
by way of a return salute ; but after these marks of
affection, he droops his head, — he is not in good spirits.

Now Lorraine prepares in earnest to go ; takes his
final step out of the house ; touches his hat to mine
host, who has tumbled out of bed to do honour to his
departing guest ; and mounts to his seat.

A miserable howl breaks from the poodle ; he runs
to and fro in disconsolate helplessness ; then he stops
and points his expressive nose after the receding vehicle.

Poor Mufti ! He knew all about it. He knew
all this was coming, and therefore he made the
friend he loved a prisoner. He does his best, but it is
with a poor hope, for his humanly disciplined dog
nature, knows that Necessity is too strong for Love. He
knows that Lorraine must go, and that he must stay
behind, and that the poor little mistress must stay
behind too. He knows that he would give his silken
ears to go, and he knows that the poor little mistress
would give half her life to do the same. He knows. —
God knows only what a dog, after his dog fashion, does
not know.

But it is altogether a black day for Mufti. Ashe
slinks back, broken and submissive, to his corner
in the porter's room, he encounters the democratic

concierge, savage, amongst other things, at being
dragged up before his time.

Peste de toi ! vilaine bete ! " he mutters between
his teeth, and for the sake — not only of the dog, but of
his friends, he saves him a kick that sends him reeling.

Mufti himself, poor fellow ! to the end of his life,
remained always Mufti ; and though from time to time
"le pauvre Hegesippe" was borne in kindly remembrance,
" le pauvre Manchon " was quite forgotten.

'■ once again Lorraine sets his face to the future,
once again a world-wanderer on the great high v.
but this time it is with no callous conscience, with no
contenting commonplaces, no easy generalities upon
men and things, but with a heart in pain, — for what
he leaves behind — and for what he goes to me

In those days there were railways and railways —
already along most of the great routes ; but off these,
only here a bit, and there a bit. That Utopian era
had not thoroughly set in, when travellers at will or
pleasure, could be propelled by steam, through the
bowels of the earth, up to the tops of mountains, or,
like arrows from a bow, right and left, north and south,
in lines that cross and rr cross, and — alack for the
travellers ! — that sometimes meet midway.

It was a quieter time for the locomotives than
now, and for locomotion also ; the science and the
slaughtering were both scarcely developed to their full
capability:

But there was plenty of movement otherwise
the world from dozing. Under the sun there
is always something stirring, — if not new to the sun,
moderately new to the folk upon the earth.

Two ways were open to Lorraine to choose, both
leading to where he was bound. He decided upon
the most picturesque. Not, indeed, that he was ina
state of mind to make this a consideration, but
because it was the route he could find out most about.

If he stuck to it. the diligence, or rather the eihcagen
service would take him to the frontier some time or
other. — But he had not reckoned upon the hills there
were to climb, the forests and mountains to skirt, and
the deliberateness of the transit.

Finally, however, after a couple of days of it. he
has the relief of coming out upon the great river
plain, and he arrives, as the last rays of evening sink
behind the black-bearded mountains, at the ramparts
of a venerable city — the City of the Stork —

du wunderschonr B

In dir da liege begraben so nianniche:

As the old song sings of it — Great in lofty roofs and

in a loftier minster, and thriving with a bold, broad-shouldered,
free-stepping, patient, industrious, honest
German-speaking people.

It was hard to believe, until some harassing formalities
convinced him of the fact, that he had crossed
the frontier.

He saluted the Country, not for the love he bore
it, but for the sake of those who did love it, — and
whom he loved.

The city was fortified and guarded, and the gates
closed at eight o'clock. Half an hour later, and
there would have been " no admittance."

Lorraine passes by the old grey walls, and the
wonderful, wide moats, once held to be so strong, now
proved to be so weak, — at least, for all defence. Soldier
as he is, he does not give any of it a thought ; he
does not even take a look at the famous spire. He
is worn out with all this tedious travelling, and these
jolting day and night; worn out, too, with his impatience
to get on. But there is no getting on
to-night ; so he seeks an hotel, and when he finds it,
he surprises the world by going straight to bed.

The hotel is in a noisy street ; — a great, gloomy,
many-storied structure, much the pride of the citizens,
full of high and narrow passages running at every
angle, with half a dozen staircases, and endless rooms
overdone with furniture, which clings to you as you
make your way through it ; gaudy with gilt mirrors,
gilt clocks, gilt cabinets, and all the rest of it. Still,

the general effect is dark and depressing. It is all of
a piece with his mood; but this does not make the
contrast the less to that dear, old-fashioned, tranquil,
low-roofed house by the lake, with its homely fittings,
and its homely cheeriness, and its homely cleanliness.

He is put into an apartment with a salon and an
ante-room ; it is first-rate — in price, if in nothing besides.
Its stone balcony, with the three corner windows,
commands the length of the street. In this warm,
summer evening, all the city is abroad, streaming up
and down, smoking, singing, talking, laughing aloud.
Even under misfortune these people are a cheerful
set.

But Lorraine has no smiles, nor pleasure in smiles ;
his enjoyment in looking out upon happy crowds is
entirely damped. He stands, whilst they are bringing
up his baggage, moving about in his room, gazing
down upon it all with a cold eye, or rather, with a
weary one. There is something dejected in his attitude.

Der Herr scent ungliicklich zu seen." " The
gentleman seems to be unhappy."

It is a woman's voice ; it comes from the primly
dressed chambermaid, with her white-frilled cap tied
under her chin, and the towels upon her arm. She
stands eyeing him with a face charged with sympathy.

The good looks of the object of this compassionate
concern may have something to do with it. The melancholy
— of a bald and corpulent gentleman, arriving
off a journey, might have aroused a less tender feeling.

But let her have her due. Pity, eonie how it may, has
ever a spark of things divine in it.

It is all lost, however, upon Lorraine. He looks
round, but it is to see if they are gone. All he wants
is to get rid of these good people, and to close his
eyes and his senses upon the world and its troublesome
doings. He has arrived at that point of weariness,
in which mind and body become incapable of any
other sensation whatever.

At twenty-five, a man sound in health is still young
enough to sleep through, if he cannot sleep off, his
troubles ; and Lorraine is blessed with these advantages.
It is his first serious attempt at sleep since the fatal
tidings fell upon him in the stone pavilion by the lake ;
and the attempt is entirely successful. No dreams of
the living or of the dead come to break up this precious
repose, and though the Babel of voices goes on till
past midnight in the street below, it makes no odds
to his chained senses. He has bribed the porter not
to fail to awake him at five ; but it takes some rough
persuasion on the part of this functionary, when that
hour does arrive, to convince him of the fact.

He is up at last — up and off again, and with some
of his old stamina, some of his old self-possession. He
may need both where he is going. This night's sleep
may be worth more to him than money can buy.

Yet he lacks his old sanguineness. Then for a

moment, Hope tries her specious arguments again.

Has he not taken fright too hastily ? May there
not be other beautiful English youths, frantic and
fanatic, — vowed to the regeneration of this unfortunate
country after Lucie's mad fashion ; — Youths
with souls as tender as they are crazy, with thoughts
as burning as their eyes are bright ?

And then sad-eyed Fear steps in and drives out
Hope. He shakes his head and cries, " There is but
one Lucie in the world, — but one Lucie ! "

He has regained, however, that soberer state of
reason, which tells him that with this suspense, neither
hope nor fear have anything to do ; and that the more
calmness he can command in awaiting this foregone
event, the better are his chances of making it out.

So, between. Hope and Fear and Reason, he keeps up
his spirits as best he can, and pursues his journey withall
the speed he may. But though he has got to the
iron road now, the speed is not what it might be. The
uproar in the capital has reached far and near. The
regular hours up and down are upset ; the trains have
to make long stoppages, and get on how — and as they
can.

Hideous tales are brought away from the insurgent
city — of fire and carnage ; of mines laid, and houses
and human beings blown to atoms ; of horrible scenes,
in which slaughter is the mildest feature: men sawing
off the legs, women gouging out the eyes of the
wounded, children pouring molten lead from the
windows into the streets; decapitated heads, stuffed

with burning pitch, paraded on pikes, and turned into
ghastly May-poles. — Tales, too, of liquid combustibles
flung about ; and of poisoned drinks, which have raised
the cry of the pestilence.

Lorraine's mind rejects these wild stories ; — they
are all past belief. At another time, he would have
smiled at the grotesque gesticulations of the narrators.
The groups of excited talkers on the platforms, to his
eye as a foreigner, have something strangely absurd in
them.

But when, as evening comes on, he gets within a
near circuit of the disastrous focus, the desperate reality
of the affair is not to be doubted ; for over the outskirt
plains scour flying crowds, soldiers and national
guards following fast on the chase, the miserable
wretches falling to their shots like rabbits in a warren ;
and along the railway lines artillery ready, at the
word of command, to send travellers and all straight
into space. But this is little to what comes next. Here
is the actual thing ; here the dismal proofs are close
under his eyes. Here are the heavily laden trucks,
filled with the dead and the dying, taken as they come,
despatched en masse out of the murderous streets !

Lorraine is not prepared for this bloody sight ; he
chills with the horror of it, and with the horror of his
fears. — He sees Lucie's golden hair in every blood-bedaubed
head, and Lucie's ardent eyes under every
pair of dead white lids.

He travels by himself. The passengers in the train

are few enough, and none of them go beyond a small
station, a few miles short of the city. Here the doors
of the compartments are thrown open, and " II faut
descendre ! " rings in their ears.

What becomes of the rest of the people, or of the
train, Lorraine doesn't know. What becomes of himself
is to remain where he is, and to divide the hours
of darkness between listening to the ebb and flow of
the tumultuous sounds that reach him from the distance
beyond, and in walking up and down, awaiting
the dawn.

To him it seems long in coming, — longer than the
longest of these dreary night watches, which have
been his lot of late ; and yet it is not so very long
in fact, — for he is miles further to the north ; and it
is full Midsummer, and the splendid June sun is up
betimes.

With its first rays, he puts himself upon the road,
and, leaving his baggage to its chance, starts on his
feet for the city ; any other way of getting there, for
hours, — is out of the question. But before it is broad
daylight, his usual good luck overtakes him, in the
shape of a market cart, moving along at a tolerable
pace, with its garden stuff.

The driver at first turns a deaf ear, and will have
nothing to say to him ; but when his tongue incontestably
proves him to be English, and not Parisian,
he is taken up with a good grace. This relenting maybe
partly due to the fact that this obliging driver is

a fine, brawny, country wench. She looks as fresh as
the dawn itself, with her glossy brown cheeks, smoothly
brushed hair, and white crimped cap. Such a picture
of cheerful health is absolutely refreshing to Lorraine's
eyes, after the closing sights of the night before. She
is not alone. Her companion is an old man. He is
fast asleep, stretched in an uneasy position across the
pole of the cart behind.

Lorraine gets seated somehow, and makes friends
with the girl. He commends her courage in venturing
into the city under the circumstances.

The girl replies — that anyhow they must live.
The vegetables have now been cut three days, and
one day more would be the ruin of them. She is sure
to make her money of them in the city to-day ; for if
many are killed, many are still left alive. Yes ; there
are plenty of mouths still left to eat her beaux ,
and they can come to market to-day for
u Messieurs les emeutiers " have caught it at last, as
the gran' mere says, " du baton qu'on tient on est
souvent battu ! " And it is just so. Last night it was
sauve qui peut ! " And then she looks up in his
face, and cracks her short whip, and cries, " Maintenant,
tout est fini ! "

Fini ? " says Lorraine.

Yes," says she, " fini." Francois had come in
the middle of the night, to tell them the good news.

Francois is her brother ; he is a blouse himself, —
he belongs to the city.

Lorraine is not thinking of Francois, but of his
tidings. He repeats the word " fini " with a doubtful
shake of the head.

The girl is observing enough ; she sees that Lorraine
demurs to her good news.

The gentleman," she says, " does not believe her.
Well, he will find that her words have truth in them.
The gran' mere said it would be so. ' N'est ce pas
qu'on a fusible, monseigneur l'archeveque.' After that
what could they expect ? Was he not good as an angel ?
She knew him well. Every day he walked smiling
past, * le petit marche, et ces miserable la ' shot him
through his good heart, — the silver cross shining on his
breast all the time. Did not Francois see it done ?
Francois is not bad ; he will have no more to do with
them, — he would have shot himself first. As for herself,
while she has cabbages to sell, and fine beans, and
petits pois well-grown, in the season, — she is content.
They have to work for it, but they have a good soup
every day; and other people might have the same,
il faut travailler pour manger ! ' And if they will
have cabbages and beans to eat, somebody must dig
the ground ; and if the cabbages are to be fine, ' il
faut aller au fumier,' every one can't have clean hands
and sit all day doing nothing; and so she has told
Francois."

Lorraine ventures to take exception to this last
sentiment ; — he suggests that people with clean hands
may still work in one way or another.

VOL. il s

It is the same thing," says she. " They don't seem
to work ; — but she does not find fault with that. Francois
is a coach-builder ; he puts on the varnish better than
any one. Well, as she has told him, if there were no
rich to drive about in the fine carriages, where would
be his trade ? — he would be worse off."

Francois is evidently the fortunate recipient of all
this rough wisdom, of which her new acquaintance has
now the benefit.

Lorraine opens his eyes in some astonishment at
his voluble charioteer, though her philosophy makes
more impression upon him than her facts. As for the
story of the shooting of the Archbishop, he dismisses
this as an invention, with the rest of the rumours. But
the coolness all round of the girl does surprise him.
For a dame de la liable she strikes him as singularly
moderate, but her sang-froid in the midst of all
these alarming affairs is equally singular. He gratifies
her with a compliment, however.

Mademoiselle a autant de bon sens, que de courage,"
says he.

And she laughs and answers, "Besoin fait faire
beaucoup de choses ; " and it is not to be supposed that
at first she was without fear, but they have been going
on for a long while now — " a la fin, on s'accoutume a
tout." Then she laughs again and says, " Monsieur
est stranger ; he does not know that there are no more
mesdemoiselles in Paris, nous sommes tous Citoyens ;
and that should content them. She does not see what
they can have more."

As they jog on together, Lorraine passes the time
by getting to the bottom of the girl's simple history.
Her name is Jeanne — Jeanne Dunois. Her father was
once a wood-cutter in the forest they passed on the
road ; but he is now well off, — he has a plot of ground,
and grows all these vegetables which she is going to
sell ; but he is not so strong as he was once, he is becoming
old. It is he who sleeps behind ; he has worked
much in his day. The poor mother is dead, but they
have an excellent gran' mere ; and they have besides a
very good friend in a certain Madame la Baronne, who
indeed it was that bestowed the bit of land upon them.
Jeanne is her god-daughter, and has also the honour
of being foster-sister to the young seigneur. Madame
est veuve, — that may be understood ; she is sad now, for
the young baron, who is " brave et beau," is in the city,
fighting with the rest of the soldiers and generals, and
it is possible for him to be killed.

Jeanne's voice is a little harsh truly, but she speaks
very well. Madame has charged herself to educate her ;
and Monsieur l'Abbe, at the chateau even, has given
her lessons. In fact, it is clear that Madame la
Baronne has acted in a most patriarchal way to her
poor dependents.

They are now close upon the Barrier. Jeanne
pulls up, and says that here it will be necessary to say
adieu; for that monsieur is to understand that all
the market carts are searched before entering the city,
and sometimes now even in the streets, — for there is

the chance that they may carry something else in
them besides green food, — powder and cartridges, for
instance! She does not object to this herself; she
takes it as it comes. She has nothing to hide; but
monsieur might find it annoying.

Lorraine is quite of the same opinion ; and so they
prepare to part company.

Jeanne rummage out a small sprig of green ; it
looks like a bit of garden thyme; she offers it to
Lorraine.

En souvenir de la pauvre Jeanne," says she.

If it had been all that is most precious of the
floral kind, Lorraine could not have accepted it more
graciously, and he sticks it in his button-hole.

Non, non ! " cries she ; " they may take it for a
token. Mettez le dans votre poche ! "

They are still some yards from the barriers. Some
scattered soldiers can be seen in the further distance.

Vite done," cries Jeanne.

He makes no move towards pocketing the green
token. He stands with one hand on the cart.

Adieu, Jeanne," says he. " Bon voyage ! You
shall go on first."

But before she takes up her reins, Jeanne leans
over and whisks the green token out of his coat, and
back into the cart. " Comme cela done ! " says she.

Jeanne is quite practical in the midst of her farewell
sentiment. She will not have the handsome Anglais
get into trouble through her doings.

Lorraine takes the girl's rough hand in his own.
If your countrymen were only made of the stuff you
are, my good Jeanne ! "

Jeanne has already made the start. She looks
back, waves her short whip to him ; and so this roadside
friendship comes to its end.

Tout est bon a Paris sauf la santa." It is the
Parisian's proverb of experience, but in its elastic air,
even upon a November day, it is hard to give credit to
this, — from one's feelings, at least in the fair city.

Now, — in the first hours of this lovely summer
morning, though the city must be reeking with death
and gunpowder, no sickly vapours are felt or seen.
No mists shroud the clear outlines, the atmosphere is
bright and fresh as at noonday on a mountain-side ;
the swallows are making their joyous circuits in the
deep blue skies ; and the doves are cooing on the housetops.


And if the city had been one great graveyard, with
none left within it to suffer or to weep, it would have
been just the same.

Yes, just the same ! The sun would still be shining,
the birds would still be singing, for their appointed
time. Mother Nature has no sympathies with her
sons ! Man indeed, sympathizes with his great
Mother, — with her dumb charms, with her voices of

ht. Her shadows and stores touch his heart :
but for his shadows and storms, she has no respond
gh& Not, indeed, that we should gain

were it the other war. Life would be truly an
Arctic Night — if Nature's smiles were measured by

But Lorraine, whether grave or Barry, is not the
one to have such thoughts as these. Sunshine is sunshine
to him, and trouble is trouble ; — he goes no
deeper into things. Upon him their effects are simple
and direct, and at this moment the sunshine has exorcised
some of the trouble. The brave talk, too, of
the honest market girl has cheered him up ; — he follows
along after her at a brisk pace, and sniffing the
air, he says —

ey have a splendid day to recover themselves

in

For the one moment, he has almost forgotten all
that lies before him, and so he arrives at the barrier.
a through it unchallenged, but —

Sentinelle, prenez garde a vous ! " falls sharp upon
his ear.

Soldiers are stationed every few yards, and the
word is carried on from one to the other ; and Lorraine
is back again with his trouble.

He does not relax his pace, but he does not hurry ;

he tries to assume an unconcerned look, bat he is*

oil :•: :: ,z 1 sir Lr >-Tj-l 7 rrzz^ij if
":.:>= ^zyzzizz ':-' -, : z-;zz::z ^: if
hi? passport, which is vied ior half a

I-rj::: :Zt-Li :-.

Tif IfSfZZfZ-rr:-. zLf

and doors, in this broad i

Z z: :: L : : L:^:~ Ltz tz: :' tt l~ z: i:Lz zi

;:t II. z ~. i r . r ; ~ f z~ z t r t z ff "iz f z • : z f — zv ?,

Err— -^ ;:i.-£—.::- : z z zzlzi:z. zzi I-
pieces, and mortars, fill the way.

TLf fz zzf :t: :- t * i jez fail
the artillery stand the ««iin^«« each at his j
tif Places are lie emahy c:zziz>- heavy
z .— ■ !.:: :Lf zi-fi . . zzt^ izt L: :*f::zf z
i:z:- f- zi:-. ::^i-7i zzr :: u z: zl: z: : — z
z zz: :~ : T z :.-r'i : zLf-z:,z.i zz —-. .
hold it.

Who can doubt it? Mot Confine. It does hi
good, this show of strength, — this absence c all s£|ra
:Lf i.s: : - z:L :: 5 ':--zz.L .frl : LtZ ;z iz
zL:z Lzs ','rz. z; . ioizLzL

Zz:
Lzz izzfZff- : : - «. z. i: Lz* :,
zlv:„ z .If ;: Lis .:'; Zz
way, so he retraces his steps all the length of the
Z- zifTjcIf, . z zz :. •.• iz: f rer-plf"?
and into the side streets. And here he
zif ; sz

A deadly reckoning it is ! The houses are riddled
with balls. Here are the barricades. One after another,
they cross the street, they reach from house to house,
they rise to the first-floor windows, — a wild mass of
all things that came first to hand when the paving-stones
ran short ; but the dead and the living are nowhere.
All that remains of this fratricidal fight are the
clotted pools of half-dried blood, that stain these cruel
ramparts and stand about in the broken street so
thickly that you must pick your way to clear them ;
but there is no avoiding the gory contact, — the ground
is soaked. Lorraine, if he wouldn't fall, must go with
eyes down upon it all. He staggers and turns sick.
Lucie's bright head comes up again to his distracted
thoughts. " His blood !" he groans ; " his blood ! "

In the moment of this thought — he starts as if he
had been shot himself, as a roar of musketry deafens his
ears. Again — and again — come the horrid detonating-echoes,
till the riddled houses threaten to fall with the
concussion.

Good Heavens ! they are at it again ! " he cries.

Qui va la ! " sounds behind him.

Lorraine starts again ; these sorry sights in place of
a breakfast have shaken his nerves. But he meets what
he expected when he faces round, — a* soldier, a veteran
certainly ; a fine, warlike-looking figure, bony and thin,
decorated with medals, and a scar on his cheek ; he has
seen service.

The sight of something alive and human reassures
Lorraine.

He goes frankly up to the man ; he may he a sentry,
but still he will speak to him, — it would be allowable
here, anyhow. He gets his French together to be
well understood.

What is that firing ? Are the people rising
again ?

The sergeant makes an inimitable gesture, and
points his finger downwards.

Are they rising again ? " repeats Lorraine.

Probably not," says the man, grimly. " That has
just silenced some hundreds."

"Silenced! Where?"

Anglais," the man remarks as if to himself; then
he adds cheerfully, " You ask where they are. I will
tell you : Dead inside a platoon in the gardens."

Just then some more scattered shots, — sharp and
irregular, break the air.

Not quite dead yet, do you hear ? They are
finishing them off."

But the man's own tongue did better justice to the
mixture of unconcern, — jest, — and animosity, in his
voice and manner.

This is horrible ! " says Lorraine.

You find it so, do you ? So do they, no doubt ; —
but they won't keep quiet without it, you see."

It is well argued from the man's point of view.
It will have to be repeated till they do ! " — says he,
and he begins to walk a few paces up and down.

Again Lorraine brings himself up with the recollection

that he is wasting the precious time, that he
has no business here, that he must press on to the
place for which he is bound. Many times had Madame
de Keradec gone over the way to it with him. She
was not at all sure of it herself, — she knew little more
than the direction in which it lay ; and yet she had
begged him not to ask his way, — it might risk his
life to do so.

Lorraine, standing here, sees the fallacy of all this.
If I am to find this place, I suspect I shall have to
ask not once, but many times," thinks he; "and I
may as well begin at once. A soldier is as much to be
trusted as any one else, and moreover there is no one
but soldiers to be met with."

So he overtakes the sergeant with a quick step, and
touches his arm. "Will you have the goodness to
direct me to the Kue des Crapauds?"

Lorraine puts the question with all the cool indifference
he can muster.

The whole bearing of the man changes ; he shifts
his musket — with a ready-to-flre look.

What do you do there ? " says he.

"I seek a friend, — an English youth ! "

Lorraine's voice falters with the words, "English
youth." They bring up all his miserable errand. He
stares on the ground, his eyes transfixed.

One of them ? "

"One of them," repeats Lorraine, his eyes still down.

The man lets his musket drop. " You won't find

him," says he. " The odds are he was shot down the
day before yesterday with the rest of them."

Good God ! " cries Lorraine. " Did you see him
fall?"

The man laughs at Lorraine's terrible earnest. " I
should have a good memory if I could tell you ! "
But there is something about Lorraine that the man
takes to.

"I tell you what it is; c'est un vilain trou que
celui la ! Better keep away from it. If you go, you
mayn't come back. If he sees you going in there, —
my comrade, — he may take his aim at you, and he's a
sure mark ; and if he happens to miss you, you're none
the safer. The place is a pretty sort of menagerie, I
can tell you,— and the beasts in it are savage."

Thank you, my friend," says Lorraine ; " but as I
am going there, you see, you may as well tell me the
way."

You have an obstinate head ! " — the man laughs —
"I suppose it's not worth much to you. Well, now,
attend ! " — he points before him — " Go straight down
as far as you can go; take the left turn; again the
fourth to the right, and the third to the right ; turnup
the first passage to the left, — you are there! and
I wish you well out of it ! "

Lorraine is won by the rough friendliness of the
man. He forgets that he comes to him red-handed.
"Thank you," says he with just one of his natural
impulses. " I'm a soldier myself, so let's shake hands."

En route pour l'autre monde ! — bon voyage ! " says
the sergeant, giving him a hearty grip.

Lorraine steps on. The man has still his eye upon
him. Lorraine has a feeling that he is looking after
him. He turns round, and, by way of a final farewell,
carries his hand to his hat. And so French and English
soldier part company.

CHAPTER XVI.

MISSIONS AND MISSIONS.

We grope along with shrouded eyes,

Nor see a step before us ;
Nor where for us the future lies,

Nor what the spell that's o'er us.

This will we do — to that we're bound —

And this the goal that calls us !
Wide of the mark we're always found —

The unlook'd for still befalls us.

Unseen the hand that guides us still,

Unfelt the force that bends us ;
Mannikins moving to the will

Of Fate that still attends us.

And so from birth to parting breath,

We go till life forsakes us ;
Till to the silent Land of Death,

The same veiled figure takes us.

Straight down as far as you can go, to the left turn ;
take the fourth to the right, — the third to the right ;
turn up the first passage to the left, — you stand in
the Rue des Crapauds.

Lorraine goes over these directions, as he walks
rapidly the length of the street. They are too precise
for him to go wrong, provided they are right to begin

with. He has no option about it. His only chance is
to follow them out to the letter. He pushes through
the blood-stains, the broken way, the barricades of this
ill-starred quarter, till, with a relieved eye and heart,
he turns out of it all into a more peaceable thoroughfare.


Carefully keeping to the order of his going, he
turns and turns, until he comes to the third to the
right ; — and now for the passage. Ah ! Here he has
it. He crosses the road to the narrow alley, and,
looking up, reads on a board that bridges it overhead,
Passage des Crapauds."

The street, then, must be close at hand. He
hastens with quick breath, taking first one twist and
then another, and then down a flight of steps, all of
it close, narrow, dark, and dirty, till he stands in a
street not greatly wider than the passage itself. There
was no more doubt, — the lettering on the first house
was plain to read, " Rue des Crapauds."

It was an uninviting situation. There were no
trottoirs, the stone way running through it divided
itself in the middle, with a gutter, filled and choked
with rubbish and stagnant filth, — but there was no
blood.

Clearly this was not the spot the champions of the
people had selected for their battle-field.

Too near the rookery," thinks Lorraine.

The houses were chiefly gabled, and of unequal
heights ; the rising stories projected one in advance of

the other, like a staircase reversed, till at the top
they all but met in the middle. There were only two
signs of life that Lorraine could perceive.

In a high window, a caged lark was singing with all
"its full heart;" and through the same lattice stretched
a woman's arm, tending some flower-pots, which hung
low from the sill by cords, dangling in perilous prominence
over the pedestrian's head.

This was old Paris still. The Kue des Crapauds
has long ceased to exist, — swept away by the new
broom of the remorseless Prefer of the second Empire.

But not to be captious, — these brooms that were
soon to be brandished over the mouldy corners of the
quaint old cities of France, and her Capital, were about
the cleanest things of that new Empire, whose evil
destiny was now trembling in the scales of dis-union ;
that ill-omened rule, which took its start as much
from the imbecility of the honest as from the craftiness
of the dishonest; which sprang equally from the
National Assembly, the Kue des Crapauds, and the
Elysee ! There is no saying into whose arms terror
may not push timidity.

Lorraine paces up and down the narrow way, without
discovering No. 22. He stops finally at No. 21.

It is a low, tumble-down wineshop ; the upper
stories, with cobwebbed windows, — look unused. The

shop itself, so far as he can see through the doorway, is
only a front.

To the right of No. 21 is a closed house ; to the
left the building is half pulled down and ruinous ; — fit
habitations, all of them, for owls and bats.

He pushes wide the door of No. 21, and goes in.

The greasy counter, except in grease and grime,
shows few marks of being frequented, though two or
three rows of dirty glasses, and some bottles partly
full of doubtful-looking fluids, together with a pervading
smell of absinthe, give something of a contradiction
to the otherwise deserted look of the place.

Lorraine taps loudly on the counter more than
once. There is no one to answer him. He turns to
go. But before he passes the doorway, he takes another
glance over his shoulder, and is arrested by a most
extraordinary apparition. Behind the counter, and
little more than on a level with it, is a black, shock
head, with twisted features, and eyes set all awry.
The head is enormous ; — so revolting is the face, that
Lorraine's first instinct is to retreat, — but second
thoughts bring him back. On a closer inspection, he
perceives that the head belongs to a creature about
four feet high, furnished with hands, feet, and ears, to
match a giant.
Comment."

The apparition can speak, it is therefore human.
Lorraine sets himself to see what he can get out of
it. He conquers his repugnance, and begins with all
the civility he can muster.

Monsieur, is this No. 22 ? "

I know nothing about it ! " is the answer. To
this follows a question. "What do you come here
for?"

I want to find No. 22 of this street."

You have nothing to do but to look for it."

Lorraine involuntarily looks all round.

It is no good your standing here," says the dwarf.
You must go."

This is No. 21 ? " Lorraine takes no notice of
the warning to depart.

Preciseness ! " The dwarf puts his big head to
one shoulder, and yawns hideously.

Lorraine changes his tactics. "You look tired,"
says he.

"So would you, if you had sat here for twelve
hours without food, and with only these beastly drinks
to go to."

Shall I take your place, while you go out and get
yourself some breakfast ? "

"You!"

Yes," says Lorraine, friendly. " Why not ? "

A la bonne heure ! Quel drove de corps que cet
Anglais ! "

Well," asks Lorraine.

"Don't trouble yourself about me. I shall take
to my heels of my own accord soon. I've had enough
of it!"

The dwarf nods his head with a sort of savage

VOL. II. T

vindictiveness. " They shall do without me, I can tell
them ! "

You had better take a little money to go with,"
says Lorraine, handing him some gold.

The dwarf's piggish eyes glisten like diamonds.
Quel drove d' Anglais ! " he says again.

Lorraine pushes the money into the uncouth hand.
I have more," he says, " if it is not enough."

The dwarf and Lorraine change their relative
positions. Lorraine is now the apparition ; the dwarf
looks up at him with all the wonder that a being
descended from the skies might have excited.

Before the creature's amazement at the Fortunatus's
purse, which has just opened for him, has passed off,
Lorraine leans over the counter, and says with a half-smile
—

Before you go to your breakfast, friend, just listen ;
I have a word to say to you."

Go to breakfast ! The fine idea ! " Quelle bonne
teted'An "

Laissez done 1' Anglais," says Lorraine, curbing his
impatience. " Listen, I say. I come here to seek a
friend. I know that he or his people are somewhere
hereabouts. I have a letter for him; I come as a
friend to friends."

You ! Their friend ! " The dwarf makes an indescribable
grimace.

Lorraine brings out a letter which Madame de
Keradec has entrusted him with for her brother.

Can you read ? " asks he.

The dwarf pushes him away. " You think the inside
answers to the outside," says he. " I can read as
well as you ! "

I beg your pardon," returns Lorraine. " But now,
do you know this name ? " He shows him the address.

Lui ! ce jeune fou ; — encore lui ! " Then comes a
shrug of the heavy shoulder, and the eyes half close.
You had better hasten your steps, if you wish to see
this one I suspect, if my ears, an hour ago, were not
mistaken."

You know him ? He is here ? " cries Lorraine,
eagerly. " Bring me to him, I implore of you ! "
Lorraine is full of a sinister dread, the dwarf's hints
at mischief are not to be mistaken. " Where is he ? "
he says. "You know where he is; — you know all
about him ! "

The dwarf limps round the counter; — the gait
and the full figure are something to recoil at. But
Lorraine is past such impressions ; his whole soul is
absorbed in his momentous quest.

What will you give me?" says the dwarf.

Twice what you've had," replies Lorraine.

The dwarf looks at the gold, still in his hand. He
seems to be making some calculation.

Three times as much ? " he says.

Yes, three times as much," repeats Lorraine.

Still looking at the coins, the dwarf mutters something
to himself ; and then he comes a step nearer.

That will do," says he. " And now prepare yourself."


"I have nothing to prepare. Which way do we
go?" and Lorraine moves to the door.

Stop, my fine friend," says the dwarf, with a grin.
We don't go in and out by doors here ! "

Lorraine thinks to himself that the plot is thickening;
it only makes him the more eager. "Come,
make haste," says he.

I'm waiting for you to say your prayers ; " and he
grins again.

"There's danger everywhere," returns Lorraine,
assuming an indifferent air.

The dwarf gives him a sulky look, and moves
back to his counter.

I've changed my mind ; I'm not going to run into
it for you ! "

You'll do what you've engaged to do, or I'll know
the reason why."

Brave bird ! Hear how he crows ! "

Lorraine feels inclined to throttle this Caliban, who
baffles him at every turn. "Small good that would
be," thinks he. So he swallows his rage, and tries his
civil words again.

If you are going away from here for good, you see,
and don't mean to come back, it can't harm you to do
what I ask. You'll have the more money to go
with."

More money ? " says the dwarf.

Yes, more money ; " and Lorraine takes the gold
out again.

These remarks change once more his prospects of
success.

The dwarf begins with a look of serious consideration
this time.

It's no good you're going in without the word ;
if you met any one without it, well — there." And the
dwarf suits the action to the word — implying by both
that with Lorraine it would be all up.

Give me the word, then," says Lorraine ; " you
know it."

Oh yes ; I know it. They're obliged to trust me,
you see ! " and he winks horribly.

Then it is simple," returns Lorraine. " You have
only to give it me."

The dwarf is convulsed with laughter, his contortions
are diabolical.

Simple ! it is simple. Oh ! le drove d' Anglais ! "

Yes, simple. There is nothing to laugh at," says
Lorraine.

"Yoyons," whispers the dwarf. "I let you in;
then I go away."

And it can't matter to you what you leave behind
you," says Lorraine, cutting short the dwarf's calculations.
" Now for the word."

"It is simple, as you say. Don't forget it when
you've heard it. It is* simple ! Oh ! Oh ! " The dwarf
is relapsing into his convulsions. The tears are in

the furrows of the horny face ; they have relieved his
risible spasms.

Look here," he says. He takes a chalk, and scores
on the floor behind the counter '93. "Simple, is it not ?"

Ah ! yes," says Lorraine, with a grim smile ; " to
be sure ! "

Ken ember, I — told you nothing."

Lorraine waves his hand. " Now, go forward." His
patience is oozing out.

The dwarf is occupied in effacing '93 with his
splay-foot.

You are losing time," remonstrates Lorraine. " If
you don't make haste, some one will come down, and
you'll be caught yourself."

"They'll not come out this way if they can
help it."

What ! are there other entrances ? "

The dwarf looks at Lorraine as if he pities his
innocence. " Shouldn't you think so ? " asks he.

What are you here for, then ? " returns Lorraine,
still in the depths of ignorance as to the habits and
necessities of the Saviours of Humanity.

"What for? Who's to take in their letters ? Who's
to play at the make-believe ? Who's to listen to the
talk of the men who turn in to drink ? Who's to druse
absinthe when they have got hold of a likely fool ? "

A whole chapter in the history of the regenerators
of society is unfolded to Lorraine's uninitiated mind.

The dwarf goes to the door, looks up and down the
street.

Personne, — il n'y a personne," says he, addressing
himself. He waits for a minute on the door-sill, and
then he comes in and closes the door with a bolt.

This done, he moves about with extraordinary
agility. He begins by climbing up on a chair, and.
taking down a lot of old coats and hats hanging on
rusty nails against the wall ; he then kicks out from
the corner some half-dozen boxes full of empty bottles,
a pile of tattered charcoal sacks, and some bits of torn
and trodden mats, — admirable blinds, all of them.

Whilst thus engaged, the dwarf seems to warm to
his work of revenge upon these unseen employers.
Morbleu ! they shall miss me to-night, ces messieurs !
Work, work, on their devil's pay — work till I drop off
like a rotten apple." He sets his teeth with a scowl.
"Allez! You'll be rotten apples tomorrow, mes
maitres ! You're played out " — then comes a sardonic
smile — " and Monsieur le Prefer up there ! Aha,
he has studied the pose in his carriage ! — in his loge !
Coquin ! which will be the worst off of us two ? Gutters
with money, galleys without ! "

The clearance is at last got through. At a sign from
the dwarf, Lorraine comes behind the counter.

The dwarf holds up his finger. " Look," says he.
Then, with a mere touch, he slides a panel in the wall
where the coats hung, and displays a long dark passage,
with one ray of burnished sunlight shooting down
from a window high up on a staircase at the end.
ii. tithe

dwarf motions to Lorraine to go on. He speaks
in the lowest whisper of his harsh voice.

Mount up there ; on the second floor you will see
four doors ; on one is a red cross chalked ; open it, it
takes you into the next house ; you will find yourself
on another staircase ; mount again to the third floor ;
you will see three doors — one chalked white, one red,
one not marked ; go in there, climb on the stove in the
corner, you will see all, hear all — all they're doing, —
who's there. There's a chink in the boarding above the
stove. I made it at nights for my own amusement " —
the dwarf touches Lorraine's arm significantly. " They
won't see you ; they don't know it's there, — not they ! "
and he laughs internally.

Now, then;" and again he touches Lorraine's arm.
This time he clutches it. " Now the money ; " and he
holds out his bony palm. " There's no engagement,
you know, to get you back again," says he, with one of
his grins.

None," says Lorraine ; " you have fulfilled your
word."

This dwarf was neither pleasant nor amiable, nor
faithful to his masters, — but his fidelity to Lorraine, in
his eyes, covers all his defects. His heart warms to him
so generously, for this introduction to this promising-lair,
that he gives him the double of what he had
agreed upon ; he even takes the deformed hand in a
friendly farewell.

Lorraine, after all, is not fastidious ; he can put up

with his fellow-creatures as well as most men, — if
necessary.

It was good policy, however, with this dwarf ; — this
poor monster, yet still human, full of all the intelligence
of deformity.

You give me the hand," says he. " It's more than
they'd do, and I'll give you your chance. I'll leave
the panel ajar for you, — if you can get clown again toit,
it closes to this side."

The dwarf slides it half-way, and then wriggles himself
through.

See," says he ; " don't forget— to this side "this
head still fills the opening — " and don't forget little
Bijou when next you meet him."

Bijou ! " exclaims Lorraine.

Chut ! " — The dwarf makes a sign to be cautious.
Oui ; Bijou, a votre service," says he ; and then with
a leer, " Didn't my mother give a pretty name to her
pretty little boy ? "

With this speech the face of the dwarf disappears,
and the panel slides.

Lorraine goes along the dark passage, and up the
dusty stairs, which creak under his feet. He is afraid of
every sound he makes ; he hears no one, he meets no
one, the place is quite deserted. Has the dwarf played
him a sorry trick, and turned him into this trap while
he makes off with the spoils ?

But, no; here at least is something to the purpose.
On the second flight he comes upon the nest

of doors ; he takes the one with the red cross ; it yields
to his hand, and he finds himself in the other house.

Here things assume a more comfortable appearance ;
the staircase is pretty clean, and there is plenty of
light, though shaded by stained glass. He mounts again
to the third floor ; the dwarfs account is true to the
letter. Here before him are the three doors, with the
red and the white chalks and with none ; and there
are men's voices within one of these closed doors.

Lorraine has courage, and yet his heart beats like a
girl's. He tries to be calm. If the place has an ill
name, he's not going to denounce it; he only seeks
Le Brun, and seeks him to ask but one question, —
but still his heart will beat, almost too much for him
to use his ears.

He lays his hand upon the handle of the unmarked
door. The dwarf may have prepared a bad surprise
for him ; he may find himself planted unprepared in
the midst of these unknown speakers.

But somehow Lorraine feels less distrust of the
dwarf than of any other part of his situation. And he
is right. Bijou has betrayed his masters; but he is
faithful to his new employer, — and to his revenge upon
his old ones.

Lorraine steps into a half-darkened room; rough
boards are nailed against the windows, but the sun
comes streaming through the chinks, and he can see
piles of firearms against the wall, and cases, as of
ammunition, on the floor beside them.

The voices for the moment have ceased. Then one
of the unseen gives a cough, which, harmless as it is,
makes Lorraine spring half off his feet, for it sounds
close at his elbow. Clearly the dividing partition
between these two rooms is of the thinnest.

He makes for the stove, which, like everything
stands precisely as the dwarf described it. Lorraine
prepares to get up by it ; he will at least see what is
doing in there — how many they are, what they are like,
before he goes further. But he is stopped of a sudden,
by a sentence which falls on his ear, clear and distinct
as the cough.

•* Am I. then, in the midst of assassins ? " The voice
is low, and full of reproach.

'silenced'* is the reply — "Silence and li-citizen,
we will forget your words. If remembered,
they would prove your own sentence. The mission of
those who would save a nation is terrible, but it is
grand. You are a soldier."

"I am a soldier, not an assassin," is the steady
answer.

Hold, madman, and listen ! When your commander
gives the word to advance, you advance,
day. when the Sacred Republic calls upon you to
advance, you hold back."

'• I hold back from murder only* is the interruption.

Murder ? you say. I will reason with you ; it is
more than your madness merits. Let me ask by what
right does the soldier do murder on the battle-field?

By what right does an armed brigade, with uniforms on
the back, shoot down, slay, level with the earth, unarmed
men, — men unknown to them, men who have never
injured them by word or deed ? You are silent ; you
have no reply."

Then the reply comes fast and quick. " Put me face
to face with a man of my own age — young, vigorous as
I am, and we will struggle for life or death ; but a stab
in the dark — that noble man ! those grey hairs ! that
hand stretched out in friendship ! that trust from him
to me ! — I cannot. You do not see what you ask of
me. It is impossible."

Head the oath ! " cries the first voice. The words
are relentless in their deliberate fall.

Lorraine hurries, yet holds back ; he dreads to
move — to raise a sound ; yet he must — he must see
with his eyes this scene his ears are unfolding to him.
His hands tremble, his feet seem to tread on a groundless
footing, his head swims, and his heart beats more
than ever, as step by step he climbs to the top of the
stove.

All mistrust of the poor dwarf is gone now. He
knows that he shall find the chink. He knows that,
once up, he shall look down upon this den of assassins.

He is up at last ; his eye is laid level to the crevice.
It is full wide. The dwarf has risked discovery in
the pursuit of his amusement.

It is a singular interior. A long, large, well-furnished
room. At one end is a table spread with

the remains of an ample breakfast — wine-bottles,
half-eaten pates, half-emptied glasses, galantine, petits
pains, fruit, ices, — it is luxurious. Clearly these conspirators
clo not go hungry.

The aspect and outlook of the room is the same
as the one in which Lorraine is making his observations.
The full sun is pouring its full light into both
but broken by the boarding in one, and the lowered
blinds in the other.

The furniture is more than comfortable — it is
costly. Couches covered with velvet, lounge chairs,
buhl cabinets, clocks, pictures, girandoles against the
wall.

A long table, covered with a green cloth, fills the
lower middle of the room ; a raised desk is at one end
of it, and at the other are strewed a few feuilletons
and letters.

The dramatis persons are four only.

Before the feuilletons sits a heavy-browed, middle-aged
man, with good features and a bad expression.
He has thick shoulders, and is strongly built. He is
beating time on the table with one hand, staring at the
cloth, with lips compressed.

In front of the desk, as if playing the part of
secretary, sits a raw-boned, red-haired, Slav-faced
fellow; you would have sworn he was a Russian or
the next-door neighbour to him.

With his back to the windows, stands the accused
slight, elegant looking, well dressed, with black crisp

curls. He stands side way to Lorraine, his face averted,
fixed upon the man before the feuittetons.

Facing this unlucky individual, full to the light, —
in a negligent attitude, in a low chair, is stretched a man
in a workman's blouse. His arm is thrown over the
chair, and his leg crosses his knee. He has a look of
intellect and power, and of the capacity of enjoyment.
The face is oval, the chin rounded ; it would please, —
but for the cruel curl of the red lips inside the light
moustache, and the cunning closing of the corners of
the eyes.

Whilst Lorraine, with held breath, is seeing and
heeding, and watching for what next, the red-headed
Kuss is fumbling in the desk. At last, what he seeks
comes to hand. With a steely glance at the accused,
he proceeds to enrol a small parchment, and straightway
begins to read aloud. The crisp hiss of his voice
is enough to curdle the blood.

In the name of the Sacred and Inviolable Republic,
I swear "

The cold, grey eyes of the Kuss are raised, and
move slowly till they rest on the slight figure standing
in dark relief against the red blinds of the sun-lit
windows.

I swear eternal hatred to kings, to aristocrats, to
all oppressors of humanity. I swear absolute devotion
to the people, and Fraternity to all men. I swear to
punish traitors "

Halt ! " cries the man whom we will call the

president of this secret tribunal. " Read that clause
again."

I swear to punish traitors."

You hear ? " says the president.

I hear," repeats the accused.

I swear to give my life, — to mount the scaffold, if
by this sacrifice I can promote the Sovereignty of the
people. I swear to pursue the enemies of the Republic,
whatever and wherever they may be, with fire and
sword. I swear to deprive myself of fortune, to leave
wife, children, family, friends, at the first signal of
alarm, and to present myself a combatant in the ranks
of the patriots of the Republic, and at the command of
the Revolutionary Tribunal. I swear to this tribunal
inviolable obedience, whatever may be its orders. I
swear that if, amongst our sacred brotherhood, a traitor
should be found "

Heed well ! " comes from the president.

If it is given to my hand to strike him down, I
swear to pursue him, to discover him, to destroy him,
in whatever hiding-place, in whatever land he may
have fled for refuge, were he my friend, were he my
brother, were he my own father. If I break this
oath, may I be devoted to the execration of all who
bear a patriot heart ! May the hearth which I tread
be accursed ! May the hand wither which is stretched
out to save me ! May a dagger pierce my heart, my
wife's heart, my children's hearts, my friend's heart !
may we be one and all pursued to the death, with fire
and sword and poison."

The Kuss stops. He holds the parchment high
above his head.

The action implies a fine bravado — bnt the actor's
face and lips are livid, as if struck with terror.

Send it on," says the president.

The Kuss passes the parchment up by the hands of
the man in the blouse.

The president rolls it up, leaving a part still open.
He walks with it to the accused.

"Do you know this writing — signe de mon plein
gre ? Do you know this signature ? "

It is mine," says the accused.

You acknowledge it ? " is the rejoinder.

Have I not said it ? " is the answer.

Citizen, attend ! I have a last word to say to you."

The president goes back to his seat, and sits eyeing
the accused, as if to take the measure of his strength.
The longer he looks, the more savage grows his
mouth, and the deeper the frown over his eyes, and the
more relentless the glare of the eyes themselves ; for the
strength seems to hold out, the victim does not flinch
under this merciless survey.

The eyes shift back to the parchment with a muttered
" Soit ! "

Then this self-constituted judge enters upon a summing
up.

This signature of yours," says he, " below this oath,
should take the place of all discussion between you
and us. By this signature you have made yourself

part of us — an unalterable and unalienable part ; you
belong to us for life and for death. Let it, then, be
clear to you that the fire, the sword, the poison with
which you have sworn, as we have sworn, to pursue
kings, aristocrats, oppressors, and traitors — mark you,
traitors — will pursue you, your family, your friends, if
you are so convicted. Mark, also, — the timid-hearted,
the hesitating, the relenting — with us are traitors."

The accused man still stands motionless.

You have five minutes' grace. Your fate is in your
own hands." He takes out his watch and lays it on
the table, his eye steadily following the advancing
hand.

With folded arms and face now sunk upon his
breast, the accused seems communing with himself.

The silence is of the dead.

Lorraine neither moves hand or foot, but he makes
ready for a dash, — he will not stand behind this chink
to the end of the act.

Over ! " and the president's hand comes with
thundering force upon the table.

The victim starts at it, it seems, half a yard in the
air ; — it is purely physical. The next moment sees him
in his first firm attitude, the head up now — and well
thrown back.

The president nods to the Kuss. This one looks

more livid than ever. He gets up, and goes to a table

behind him ; from this he takes a phial, a cup, and a

heavy pistol. He puts all three beside the president.

VOL. II. u

As he puts them down, Lorraine can see that his hands
tremble uncontrollably.

The face of the president, on the other hand, exhibits
a look of murderous resolve. He takes up the pistol
and cocks the trigger ; the small, sharp click falls on
the ear with all the force of the death-knell for
execution.

You seem to have made your decision," he says,
in a callous tone.

I will not murder a defenceless man."

In spite of the man's high courage, Lorraine sees
his chest heave with a sigh that seems to come from
the depths of his being.

We have done with that," says the president. He
pushes across to him the phial and the cup.

It is an easy death," he says.

"Neither murder nor suicide!" All the man's
strength is back again.

Was it for such as these," he cries, " that I gave
myself, body and soul ? "

Your oath ! " shouts the president.

Yes, my oath. I swore it. My death shall cancel
it. God forgive me ! "

The voice is sublime in its despairing determination.

A derisive smile crosses the president's face.

All well," says he. " The citizen admits that there
remains now nothing but this."

And he points to the pistol lying on the table
before him.

Numero Quatre come, to my left hand."

Still the accused does not quail, but he tightens his
arms over his chest.

The Kuss hesitates, but the man in the blouse
jumps up —

Morbleu ! cela ne se fera pas ici ! Pas dans mon
salon ! Take him down below, if you like."

This last refinement of the model conspirator is lost
upon Lorraine, for, before the words are well uttered,
he is upon them like an avenging judgment. With a
blow from behind, he floors the president, and seizes
the pistol. With his magnificent height, and the
splendid passion in every feature, he is grand.

Escape ! " he cries to the accused.

The man, like the rest, stands stupefied.

Lorraine drags him by main force and pushes him
out of the room. Then he faces round, and raises the
pistol.

For the first who moves ! "

The president lies senseless on the floor. His head
has come in contact with the bronze leg of an elegant
antique, — and this collision makes the complement to
Lorraine's knock-down blow. The Fuss moves, but it is
backwards, to the remotest corner of the room. The
man in the blouse is the only one who shows fight.
He takes one step forward.

You had better stand still," says Lorraine. " Assure
as you come on one step more, I will shoot you
through your worthless heart."

The blouse thinks better of it ; he walks down " his
salon," and joins his friend the Kuss.

Then Lorraine, the pistol still to the fore, makes
them an address.

The man you would have murdered," says he, " is
now safe from your desperate hands, and it is lucky for
you that I have not the taste for blood that you seem
to have. If I had, I would conclude this remarkable
sitting by shooting you down one after the other, as I
hope you perceive I could very well do. This thing,
I see, has two barrels to it ; " and he shakes the pistol
at them.

The Kuss dodges behind the blouse. The blouse
turns white with rage. He would fly at Lorraine, if he
dared, — but he does not dare.

All this time Lorraine is covering with his words
the retreat of the escaping man.

Safe now," thinks he. " And I'll be off too ; or
maybe a reinforcement of this interesting band will
arrive."

Then, with one of his finest sneers, he touches ibis
hat to the pair quailing before him.

"Before I wish you good morning, let me assure
you that I consider you three of the biggest cowards,
the biggest humbugs, and the most confounded
scoundrels on the face of the earth ! "

It was Lorraine all over. He delivered his parting
salutation in the full swing of his mother tongue.
Whether it was understood or not, or what were its
effects, he did not stop to discover.

He clashes from the room almost as rapidly ashe
had entered it ; but his wrath is boundless when he
comes right upon the man whose life he has saved.
His indignation against the assassins is diverted to
their rescued victim.

"In the name of God, what are you doing here?"
he says. " They are capable of murdering you ! "

Lorraine waits for no reply, but takes the man's
arm and carries him along with him down the stairs.

On the second flight the man is turning into a
room.

Lorraine drags him back. " To the other house,"
he cries, " the wineshop is open."

In double haste they go through the door, and
down the creaking stairs and dark passage.

The faithful dwarf is faithful to the last; he has
proved himself a real jewel, — worthy of his name ; the
light is shining through the slit of the panel.

"We will wind up with a feu de joie!" cries
Lorraine, and he fires up the dark passage, and flings
the pistol away from him.

In another moment they are through the panel,
and stand in the wineshop.

Lorraine's head has only grown the cooler with
the advancing stages of this desperate adventure ; but
now sets in the reaction.

Ah ! — how, after these great escapes for life, we gasp
for breath ! How, after these hairbreadth risks, run
clear with steady steps, — the frame trembles, the blood

rushes ! How the blessed word — safe ! — rings through
the brain, — till the feet reel, and the sight swims with
the rare certainty held in hand !

These two men, fresh panting from such a race
against Fate and Death, stand silent and overpowered.

Lorraine presses his hand to his brow ; the other
leans giddy against the counter. At last gratitude
brings this one to himself.

My deliverer ! " he cries.

Take better care of your life, now you've got it,"
says Lorraine, his hand still to his head.

The peril is past, but he goes back again to his
protest. " You were mad to stay up there."

How could I leave you ? " is the answer.

The man's voice is of exquisite tone, rich in the
depths of its emotion, mellow in the sweetness of the
organ ; but it is neither its feeling nor its melody that
makes Lorraine start. It is none of this, — it rings like
an echo through his heart.

He throws away his hand from his brow, and looks
full into the face before him.

It is in good sooth a well-favoured and touching
face, — with its smooth contour, its sensitive features,
the damask colour back into the olive cheek, and the
terror of near death passed out of the brown velvety
eyes.

No more — no more.

With a passion of deep joy, Lorraine cries aloud,
"Le Brun himself! "

You know me ! " exclaims the man.

But Lorraine makes no reply. He stands with his
eyes fixed on the other's face, murmuring to himself,
Valerie, my brave and tender Valerie, — I have saved
him for you ! "

And this, though he saw it not, was Lorraine's true
mission to Paris.

CHAPTEK XVII.
l'apotre.

Paul ou vas-tu ?

Je vais sauver le monde
Dieu nous done, une loi d 'amour —
Apotre la sueur t'inonde ;
En festins ici passe an jour.
Non, non — je vais sauver le monde
Dieu nous donne, une loi clamour.

Paul ou vas-tu ?

Je vais secant des larmes,
Dire aux pauvres, Dieu seul est grand !
Crains le riche si tu Salaries ;
Crains le pauvre s'il te comprend —
Non, non— je vais merchant des larmes
Dire aux pauvres, Dieu seul est grand ! "

Stranger.

These things are too near to the fatal seriousness of
facts, to be fitting to this page ; they belong, as the
phrase goes, to history. Here they are but the prologue
to Lorraine's own tragedy, and are so far indispensable.
Lorraine and Le Brun had walked full a mile from
the Rue des Crapauds before they exchanged a word.
With mute consent, they had left the wineshop, — Le
Brun taking the lead. By this time, there was no

manner of doubt on the mind of either — who the other
was. Side by side walking on, each revolved in silence
all the bearings of this strange chance, which had
brought them this day together.

The streets, in truth, just now, were not the place
for conversation, though a singular change had taken
place in them since the morning.

The military were clearing off — clearing off, withall
their gear — to the eye at least ; within recall, no
doubt, of one beat of the rappel. But this recall was
not to be to-day. As the faithful Bijou discerned, the
game of the revolutionists was, for the time being,
pretty well played out.

The shops still remained closed, but the pavements
were filling rapidly. Yet this reappearance of the
human element scarcely made the gloom the less, for,
with the quick adaptability of the impressionable
populace, every one bore some outward sign of mourning,
and hundreds were crowding to the churches and
cemeteries, with tapers and immortelles in their hands.

Gangs of workmen are hard at work at the practical
business of restoring the broken thoroughfares ; barricades
are yielding to peaceful blows, and bloodstains
are vanishing before the mild efforts of water-carts
and hose.

As they traverse one street after another, Lorraine's
British build, with his broad shoulders, six feet, honest
face, — honest and handsome, excite some remark, but
no suspicions ; and Le Brun at his side, with his singularly

slight and youthful figure, though the elder of
the two, — produces no impression, — an eclipse he is not
inclined to grumble at.

Once only there is a bring-up, with a patrol of gens
d'armes, who seem inclined to be rusty ; but the omnipotent
passport, brought out of the breast pocket,
passes them on again.

These risky chances make a diversion from their
personal preoccupations. Still, from time to time,
Lorraine turns to his companion with a distracting
question trembling on his lips ; and as often the commotion
without, and his emotions within, make the
words die upon his lips.

So they go on, until Le Brun lays his hand upon
his arm as a sign to stop.

•• Where are we now ? " asks Lorraine.

Rue Chateaubriand," says Le Brun. " It is to
that house opposite that I have been guiding you.
You will find there an apostle and a martyr."

Lorraine stops short. " But first " says he.

Le Brun interrupts him with a gesture of pain.
You will learn all there," says he, pointing again with
his finger as he crosses the street.

"Take this at least." says Lorraine; and he brings
out the letter confided to him with so many fears and so
many tears.

The whole parting scene rises to his e

Before he parts from this letter, he carries this
dumb effigy of love and sorrow to his lips, and he is
not ashamed of the dispel

Ah ! mv sister ! n cries Le Brun ; " my dear Valerie ! r '

But when they stand upon the threshold of the

house, other thoughts seem to seize upon him. His

brow contracts : he crushes this letter, which has been

the very guardian angel of his life, absently into his

breast ; a tremor of apprehension fills his whole manner.

On the entresol is the room of the concierge. The

man stands with the door open, — a comfortable little

ige, wife, child, and something savoury dishing up,

behind him.

Le Brun grasps his arm. "Le maitre, est il en
haut

'•' It is an hour since he came in."

u Ah ! mon bon Gerard. Dieu merci ! Dieu
merci ! " and as they mount the staircase, Lorraine
can hear him muttering, " Sauve, sauve ! Grace a
Dieu ! "

As they are passing up, they meet two women, one
with a child, and an old man, — a veritable blouse this
one.

*• Are you going to see him ? " asks the woman with
the child. " Ange de bone ! See what he has given
me. And he is poor ; he will have no wine this week."
And she shows a handful of coins.

- What is money," cries the other woman, ** to his
kind words ? Ah ! my poor heart ! The good he
done it ! n

The old blouse has only hie ra filling the

furrows of his withered cheeks for a testimony of his
gratitude to this unnamed yet universal benefactor.

They stop at the third floor. Le Brun lays his
hand upon the bell of the right-hand door ; and then
he waits, without pulling it.

The same indescribable emotion as before takes
possession of him.

What is it ? " exclaims Lorraine. " What is
here ! "

He is coming again under the shadow of the horrors
some new and terrible phase of the dread issues that
are unloosed ! But nothing will surprise him now.

Le Brim's face does not express terror. What he
gives Lorraine is a most rueful look.

When we pass this door," says he, " we shall
stand in the incorruptible presence of the man — this
miserable hand was to have struck down ! "

He throws out his right hand, as if he would be rid
of it for ever.

Lorraine starts at his own commentary upon these
words.

Good God ! " thinks he. " On what an errand might
not this man now be standing here ! "

Le Brun's hand is always on the bell-knob. He
shakes his head pitifully.

A man," he murmurs, " broken by all the
storms, — crushed, but sublime ; a life of grandeur
and of contumely; a life-long struggle for the right
against the wrong ; a man who has trodden under his

feet honour and power and rank, who has abandoned
fame and friends, who has borne with the niisjudg-
ments of the honest — and the misstatements of the dishonest,
who has endured persecution and calumny for
the sake of his conscience and of his fellow-men." Le
Bran's eyes fire up as he goes on, and his voice
comes up.

It is but a flash. In a moment all his spirit breaks
down again. His hand drops from the bell-handle.

•• My courage fails me," he cries. " I cannot look
upon that noble face ! "

Le Bran shrinks, self-condemned, before the stigma

7 7 —

of the deed he would not do, — the deed — he chose
death rather than commit ; tor still, before himself, he
stands committed to the act, though guiltless of it. He
stands there a criminal in his own &

He sees nothing of his own ordeal. He values nota
straw his own heroic stand in that deadly alternative.
He recalls nothing of the death shiver that iced his
veins. He feels nothing but — shame, remorse, and
grief !

What heroism is there not in human nature ! Of
how many types. — yet all heroic ! Truly man is only
a little lower than the angels.

*e -

Lorraine is not a sensitive person. He does not

well understand Le Brun's condition of mind. He
can see that he has escaped a tremendous snare, and
he can see only — unbounded thankfulness for his predominating
feeling.

But, then, Lorraine has never been a conspirator.
He has never steeped himself in that red bond, never
sworn that red oath, never written his name with that
red fluid. He has never felt the hopelessness, the
recklessness, the sickening scourging sensations of the
man who, — with good in him, beholds the Johanna of
his worship unveiled at last, and sees the hideous
lineaments flaunted in his face. No need for further
mask. — Is he not bound hand and foot ? Is he not sold,
body and soul ?

It is not only the dire loathing of this murderous
bondage, but it is the unspeakable degradation of it,
which does not depart — even with a blessed escape.

Le Brun is turning back down the stairs, but Lorraine
stops him.

Be just to yourself," he says. " Kemember your
hopeless risk — your courage — your constancy "

But Le Brun cuts him short. " What could have
happened to such a worm as I am, but death ? — no
loss, no miss. But, such a rock of defence — such a
tower of strength as this one life, — to be allotted to
the assassin's stab ; — and mine the hand ! "

Lorraine presses Le Brun's arm. He cannot seethe

good of all this — all this hesitation. For him, too,
there is something behind that door which, since he
must face it, he will know the dismal worst of at once.

Let us go in," he says.

"■ Ah ! " says Le Bran ; "lam forgetting you ! " —
And with that, he pulls the bell. Its short, thin
rattle makes him tremble, as if it were the last
trumpet call !

The grate of a bolt, withdrawn inside, sets the
door free.

Lorraine steps in after Le Bran, holding his breath.
He has caught something of the awe of the other
standing out there, with all these remorseful spasms ;
and his own choking questions are again swelling
at his heart.

The entrance reveals a passage, with a door on each
side and one facing up from the end. This stands
wide, — and from it comes a voice at once commanding
and sympathetic.

Entrez done, chers amis, entrez done."

It would seem that none but trusted friends are
expected here.

The next moment Lorraine starts as if he himself
had received the assassin's stab, as he sees Le Brun
rush forward through this opened door with headlong
impulse. In the first moment of this rush he falls

back, — and then he too clashes through, headlong,
like the other.

His mauvais quart dlieure in that thieves' den
has even contaminated him. His faith in human
nature is shaken ; his moral judgment is confused. A
horrid doubt takes possession of him ; his mind is still
out of joint, deranged by any sudden turn. Can he
have been walking side by side all this time with the
concealed poniard of a wily murderer ?

It is but the panic of the moment — a panic which
dissolves with the tableau that meets his eyes.

On his feet is a man of noble countenance, — grave,
resigned, ascetic, austere, and yet benign, with a breadth
of brow well befitting a leader of men ; with a mouth
that grows the sadder with its smiles, well befitting a
martyr. Only in the deep-set eyes live the fires of the
soul.

On his knees is Louis Le Brun.

- Mais, qu'as tu done, mon Louis ? "

A large, kindly hand is laid upon the glossy head,
and the agonized face is turned up to the searching
glance of the questioner.

Then Lorraine, with one of hi mp&u inspirations,

steps forward ; the revulsion from his wrongful
doubts to this telling scene, moves him to the quick.

He opens his lips, and, with simple words as is his
wont, he tells this morning's tale ; he tells of the fiendish

temptation, of the frantic alternative, ot the faithful
stand. It takes him but half a dozen sentences to set
it all forth, brief and plain ; bat it loses nothing thereat
is a tale that requires no working up ; and
Lorraine, concise as is his tendency, can't conclude
without a second rolled at his cowards, humbugs, and
blackguards.

in time to time, in this short recital, the commanding
voice murmurs a word, the sad lips quiver.
and the fire of the eyes deepens.

mur. And tl-ain laid, as if in blessing,

upon the bent head of the kneeling penitent.

But soon the voice regains its tone, and the king
are turned to Lorraine.

tt own act in this day's
work. Wit! . this head"* and he strokes tenderly

the crisp curls — ** without you — this head would
have been now laid low, and its fate — a mystery for

n, with a frank advance. Le Bran is passed by.
and a friendly hand is offered.

u are an Englishman, we know by your
and your manful courage; but we ■ to


It is Le Bnm'a opportunity to recover himself.
he stands with a hand on each.
n. x

Mai t re, cher maitre," he cries, " we know him
well. He is Valerie's good friend — our Lucie's friend.
He is Claude, his brother ! "

It is come at last. It is Lorraine's time to question,
to listen. He has no voice for the task.

But he is in the presence of a man accustomed to
all the signs and moods of grief. He leads Lorraine
to a distant seat, and waves to Le Brim not to follow.
Then, drawing a chair near to him, he puts himself at
his side.

Mon ami," says he. " II a pris sur nous, un peu
d'avance — un peu d'avance. — Voila tout."

And then, with the manner of confessor and consoler
in one, which the habit of half a lifetime had
impressed upon him, he speaks and reasons with him,
as great souls alone can do in the days of the heart's
tribulation.

Long he speaks ; and long Lorraine sits at his
side. The strong breast heaves; the strong frame
shakes ; and tears, the first since childhood's day, force
through the hands that cover them, and give vent at
last to the pent-up pangs of many days. The master's
eyes are moistened too.

Be comforted," he says. " If we could bring him
back, could we have the heart to do so ? Could we ask
for his life for such a world as this ? — for such a world
as you have seen to-day ? — for such a world as makes
this to-day — possible ?

The hour of the body's sufferings of our heroic boy-were
sharp, but they were short. Let it be a consolation
to you to know — that I am here to give you the
history of that sad struggle ; that you are on the spot
from whence his sweet soul took flight ; that you are
face to face with the friend who never left him, from
the hour the dire disease struck him till death released
him. Let it be a consolation to you to know — that all
that my great love could do, was done ; that all that
skill could do to stay, to save, to soothe, to smooth
the way of the fiery trial, was done. In my arms this
matchless being resigned his hold upon this miserable
life, and rose — who can doubt it or deny? — to fitter
arms, — to a fitter company, — to a fitter world."

The head of the speaker sinks down. "It was a
fiery trial," says he, — wrung by the painful memory.
But, you knew him. — What were these brief pains to
the enduring pangs that daily rent his soul ? What
were these few fiery darts to the poisoned arrows — a
suffering and a tyrannous world daily implanted in

his heart ?

he was not the rock to breast the waves; he was
the ocean itself, — a prey to all life's tempests, tossed
by all the winds of human woe. This world, this life,
as men make it for their fellow-men, — was for him
too hard a thing to bear. Himself endowed with all
things fair and fortunate, guarded from all the want
and oppression of a low estate, he was still borne down
II. *-

by the weights of poverty and want, by the tears of
eyes that weep in vain, by the clank of the chains
that bind the poor and the friendless. He was ever
drinking of the cup, ever consuming the portion of the
weak and the wretched ; — and since of this cup there
is no emptying ; since of this portion there is no ending
; since woe, and want, and weakness, and wretchedness
make up the inexhaustible cruise which Heaven,
for our sins, has given our race to subsist on; — what
hope in such a life, in such a world, — could there befor
so divine a soul ? "

Lorraine takes heed but imperfectly ; the eloquence
of the preacher, the reasoning of the scholar, the keen
thoughts of the despairing philanthropist, the sympathies
of a kindred spirit, do not touch him. He
does not follow it. To him it is all words. He sits
with fixed eyes ; he sees nothing but two pictures :
Lucie, the golden-haired and with the radiant eyes,
rapturous and rejoicing, coming down from his new
paradise, — his hair all a-blown, his cheeks and eyes
all alive and kindling; — and Lucie, stricken where he
stands, — the sunk eye, the ashen cheek, the body
writhed, racked, tortured with the agonies of a remorseless
disease. He had prepared himself for much
for a pierced heart, for bleeding wounds, for the
dimmed sight, the pallor of an heroic death. — But

this ! — but this ! It is too hard a fate ; it is too cruel —
too merciless a close to this beautiful life, too hideous
a shroud for this radiant form — for this body so free
from mortal stain.

Like Job, in the bitterness of his soul he could
have cursed God, and cried aloud, " Let me die also ! "

The master leaves him — leaves him to himself, and
goes away from the room, taking Le Brun with him.

Then bursts forth all his lamentation. Up and down
he treads the narrow floor ; to and fro he goes with
folded arms, ' moaning to himself, "Dead and gone!
dead and gone ! "

But the voice of the comforter is within hearing —
within recall : it is again beside him.

Dead, but not gone," says the master. " Ever
with us — ever in love, in memory, — in example of all

things pure, — in the hope of all things true. Ever

with us, in the spirit's close communion, here and

hereafter."

II.

CHAPTER Xviii.

"And direst thou sicken, droop, and fade, and die,
My heart's lov'd brother, dearest sweetest friend, —
And I ne'er knew it ; nor at hand to tend
Thy couch of pain, and ease thine agony ? —
I, who had flown from earth's extremest end
To soothe and watch with tenderest sympathy,
And would Lave deemed well changed, a life's long joy,
One hour beside thy dying form to spend, —
To catch thy slightest wishes from thine eye,
To serve thee day and night with ceaseless care,
To weary Heaven, day and niL'ht, with prayer
To stop the current of thy destiny !
Ah me! I so ha 1 watched and wept and prayed,
That Heaven, perchance, its pitying hand had stayed."

H.

Lorraine remains an inert guest under the roof which
the Last of Lucie. He has no illness that has a
name, and yet mind and body are both shaken.

He has succumbed. He has lost his fine power of
taking arms against his troubles. He feels chained to
the spot where the tragedy consummated — the

life ! He haunts the chamber :
stands beside the couch. But here illusive memory

comes to his aid. He can but see Lucie as he saw
him, — in the full glory of his fresh youth, in the full
glow of his fragrant health.

Pot Lorraine, — the Lucie he mourns for passed
away with all the signs of hope and beauty upon him ;
and grim < with its direful tokens, falls back

among the shadows.

So let it remain. Let him forget that his bright
Phoebus Apollo was but poor mortality. Let the
kindly shades hide the hideous tale. Let his mind

in make for itself two pictures, and both glorious:

ie as he was on earth ; Lucie as he is in heaven !

One day, the master laid a letter before Lorraine.
You can bear these things now' said he.

Lorraine took it up listlessly, and turned to the

ire. It was from Aboyne. He took the black

edges for the sign that Lucie's death had travelled

sir. But it was not so : it was, in fact, add -
to Lucie, — and it told him his father was dead !

Yes — Earl Bellarmine is dead.

"It is a very terrible break-up." says the master,
■• — very terrible : and very hard for the desolate young
girl, all of a sudden deprived of her natural protestant

with unnatural wealth and influence thrust upon
her. These great exclusive fortunes are a mistake — a
great mistake ! "

Lorraine looks at him, as if, at present, he had not
taken it all in.

You, who must have her fate at heart," says the
master, " will learn with comfort that she is under
some protection ; that she is not quite friendless ina
foreign land ; that she is in a safe retreat."

The master looks at him, as if expecting some
reply.

Lorraine is gathering up his thoughts, — bewildered
again with this last stroke of a persistent evil Fate ;
but his tongue is still held in check by the invincible
repugnance he has to approach the subject of this
"desolate young girl," whom he has made trebly
desolate ! — Where, indeed, would have been this desolateness,
if he had kept his faith ?

But the master is still looking, and he must bring-out
the reluctant words which conscience, perhaps,
makes it so hard to him to utter.

Where is her safe retreat ? " says he.

Close under the shelter of the hills where her
sorrow has fallen upon her. You know the Abate
Faa di Bruno. She is with his sister, a very saintly
woman, superior of the convent where, for the present,
Lady Laure has found a home."

"A convent?" repeats Lorraine.

"A convent!" returns the master. u You &
like it ? "

"I — I — " be stammers — "I have nothing to do
with it."

"So I hear," — says the master, quietly. "The
abate is an old Roman acquaintance of mine. At
the instance of poor Lucie, I wrote to him, to commend
his sister to bis care: but the wish had been anticipated,
— Lady Lanre was already at La Stella,' 1

"Ah*" comes from Lorraine. Then he Looks up.

Bnt she will not remain there," says he.

The master shakes his head. u It will be hard for
her to break away again.' 1

u To break away I Lorraine, sharply. "

why not? What is to prevent her?"

"All! What is t<> prevent hermon amir That is
question! You are acquainted with her youth,

her sorrow, her unworldly gentleness, her u

simplicity; with her tender affectionately, and with

her wealth. Ber character, in the letters I ha
written to her poor brother, is i L "k r ou

know all this," continues the master; M bu
do not know— the Abate Paa di Bruno, a man

wide sympathies, but an astute Italian an astute

Italian

you m< I lorraine, u that bell

her in that cnv.-nt in the shape ot' a nun. you |

take my word for it he won't 1 know her bet!

What is there to know about a young girl," asks
the master — " a young girl of this description, save that
she is the virgin page, which takes its colour from its
closest surroundings, — that she is the wax — to the best-directed
impression ? "

I have no experience of them," says Lorraine ;
but as to this one, I know a little of her. She had
taken her colour and received her impression before the
Abate Faa di Bruno had anything to do with her ; and
if he has any designs, he'll fail, and the reason is —
that all she has left to care for, is out of a convent,
and not in it ! "

Plunged so far into it, Lorraine goes on with' increased
spirit — his conscience, pricked in spite of himself,
finds a ready balm at hand in this impersonal
vindication of " this desolate girl."

As to the letters," says he, keeping up his voice, in
spite of the topic, " between two such affectionate and
artless beings, what was there to draw out beyond these
qualities ? I have seen her differently matched ; her
character is gentle, but not weak, and in my opinion
she is capable of some courage and more constancy. I
don't think," he adds, "she'd be turned round in a
minute by anybody's finger' — He might have further
added, — " Except by my own."

Lorraine receives into his own bosom the reward of
his doings, or rather sayings. The episode has done

him good ; it has made him think and speak and feel —
a little outside his own heavy bewailing.

I was going to propose to you," begins the master
again reverting to the same subject — "as a duty to
your lost friend, to go down to her."

I — I — " says Lorraine ; and he begins to stammer
again.

Then he casts about, like a drowning man, for some
straw of excuse or show of excuse. His eye tails upon
the letter, barely half read. He takes it up, goes
through it carefully. Then he puts it down. It has
furnished him with more than a straw of excuse.

I see that Mr. Aboyne," says he, " actually writes
from her neighbourhood. It seems he was himself the
bearer of the news of the earl's strangely sudden death ;
otherwise, he would not have known how to address
here."

Lorraine's countenance is again taking up its
dejected look; he feels crushed by the whole of this
destructive sweep. He goes back to poor Lucie and
his blue flower, to his impossible Utopias, to his visions
of the perfect life, to his rank and titles cast behind !
And here — here is it, all cast, not behind, — but into the
great gulf of the grave !

Lorraine is not able to recall or get on with what
he was about to say.

Who is the person who writes this letter ? " asks
the master. " Is he a friend of the family or what ? "

Lorraine gives a look of assent. Then he acids, " He
is there, still with her — as much her friend as a man
can be ; — I — could do no good."

And then the matter drops.

It is the last evening.

To-morrow will see Lorraine return, a sadder, if nota
wiser man, to the country he calls his own. 1$ is a
moment for much thought.

During these past melancholy weeks, all that strong
sympathy could do for him has been done by Le Brim
and by the master; and the bond between them has
grown daily closer. New lights have dawned upon
Lorraine, and by them he has made a new reading of
his Lucie's enthusiasms. He has beheld the apostle
of his faith, and the disciple of his following. He has
communed with Le Brun, he has listened to the master,
and he has made acquaintance with " the firebrands"
of his rallying jest in clays gone by.

Lorraine's conversion — if he is converted — is not
after the fashion of those who shut their eyes and
choose, but of those who distinguish — who divide the
chaff from the wheat — who have ceased to confound
the true with the false.

In Le Brun and his master — he sees a soaring enthusiasm
and self-immolation. But he sees nothing
still of a groaning world or of a suffering humanity.
He views the scene of all this frenzy and faction, this
murder and madness, this wickedness and weakness ;
and he believes more strongly than ever in the utility
of bayonets, — and in the futility of allowing people to
govern themselves.

The time for him to be converted by a peaceable
republic had not yet arrived.

But he has got so far as this, in his advanced ideas,
that he not only beholds Le Brun and his master with
unfeigned admiration, but he has come to believe that
the existence, and efforts, and example, and teachings
of such men — must be for the Ultimate Good of the
human race.

On this last evening in which these three men are
to be together, by common consent, they turn their
steps to the spot where Lucie, their common friend,
and their common loss, sleeps his last sleep.

As they toil up the steep graveyard, with storied
urns to right and left, the master's eyes are on the
ground ; he is not concerned with these memorials.
They tread in silence the dim labyrinths of costly
mausoleums and sculptured marbles, and of those grey,
half-hidden stones, which mark some bit of earth, made
immortal by the dust of an illustrious name.

The close air of this crowded city of the dead is
heavy to breathe. The damp chill of the declining
day is hanging about these tombs. For them the light
soon goes.

But what they seek is not amongst these depressing
shades, not beneath these hard, unresponsive stones.

They mount higher ; they leave the cold monuments
behind them. They stand clear; they can breathe
again.

Once more they are in the sun ; the wind blows
fresh. The city is stretched in all its beauty at their
feet ; the circling heights are glimmering in the sun's
slant rays ; and the sward that slopes away before
them catches these last gleams, and bares its breast to
Heaven, — laden with no heavier burden than a turned-up
sod.

Here are the graves of the poor. There is nothing
here to stifle the soul — nothing but the green earth,
the golden sky, — and the wind blowing where it
listeth.

Here he lies," says the master ; " in the company
of the nameless and the poor — in the common grave of
the people he loved so well. It was all that we could
give him ; it was all that he would have desired ; it is
all that I — will have given to me. And, my friends, it is
a better bed for us to stand beside — a better bed for us
to think upon, than if he lay beneath those blocks that
cumber the earth so vainly yonder. For him, what
matters — grass or marble ? He is now beyond the thick

veil — in that world of which we know nothing, — save
that it must be."

It is well on to midnight before this last day is
broken up.

They sit round the lamp in the master's modest
room, — he speaking, the younger men listening, hanging
upon his words ; for he has the gift of an austere and
touching eloquence — austere and touching by turns.

As the sorrowing woman said, "His words did
good to all sick hearts."

But he has a grand invective for those he condemns.
His blood, his birthplace, his training, gave him the
dowry of a spirit inflexible — uncompromising. His
conscience was his standard, Truth was his beacon ; and
with these he went forth to slay and be slain.

The great outer world of alienated friends, of exasperated
foes, called him a lost sheep, a false prophet,
a misguided, a bad, and a bitter man!

They talked of his miserable collapse, of his baffled
ambition. They gave him back his hard words with
interest. They rendered anathema for anathema ; they
credited him with nothing better than talents misused,
and honey turned to gall.

They saw nothing of his love of truth, of his pity,
of his patriotism, of his self-denial.

They took no account of his long years of vast sadness,
of his bruised friendships, of the envenomed
arrows which malice and misrepresentation and misunderstanding

had planted in his heart. They held
for little — the unwavering fortitude with which he
met the rude shocks of his life.

The world is older by many years since that day.

It is still full of Hate and Invective. But if the
master had lived till to-day, he would have found more
Charity, — and had more Hope.

Lorraine sits leaning his head upon his hand. Now
his eyes rest upon Le Brun, now upon the master.
He is learning by heart the lineaments of these friends
of his friend. He would fix for ever in his memory
the form of those lips which poured words of love into
that dying ear ; he would look so long, that he shall
never forget the expression of those eyes which shed
tears over that radiant head.

He looks at these two men sitting there, with their
lives in their hands, prepared, like Lucie, — for any
fate. He recalls the horrors but just gone by — the
blood-stained streets— the assassins' den. He takes a
hand of both, and cries —

"Would to Heaven that I could leave you tomorrow
— safe, and at peace one with the other ! "

My friend," says the master, smiling sadly ; " you
give us — too good wishes."

I wish you but ordinary security to life and limb,"
says Lorraine.

"We must not count on that," says the master.
- We have to run our course, as others have done
before us."

Who has run such a course ? " cries Lorraine.
"Do you reckon yourselves back by a thousand
years ? Here in this city, the centre of civilization
diabolical conspiracies ! human bloodhounds ! mock
tribunals for murder and revenue ! "

Ah ! my friend," says the master, " these things
are not the root of the mischief. They are only a fatal
necessity of its growth ! "

Lorraine looks at him with the expression of a

man, who would reconcile two opposite things

moreover he has to remember that he sits in the
presence of at least one member of the secret tribunal
of the Eue des Crapauds — at least one — but he must
speak out.

They are," he cries, " beyond justification — beyond
excuse — an outrage against man, and an offence against
God ! "

"Believe me-says the master, calmly ; "it is the
desperate wrongs that are to blame. These desperate
wrongs — beget desperate remedies. The banded
strength of open oppression, drives weakness to take
up arms in the dark. And in the dark, who shall

The angels and the demons meet each other

undiscovered, inter the shades of night. Huddled

ther in some dark hole — meet the patriot soul.

prepared to gire his all-heart — arm — life itself — fired

V<»l IT. Y

with the noble passion for freedom ; — and the hunted
adventurer, ready to sell his soul for greed, thirsting
all round for blood; the man who has everything to
lose — and the man who has everything to gain, — each
by virtue of what he is. enrols himself in these dark
ranks. So. and by no other means, can the world go
free ! Terrorism met by terrorism ! M

Lorraine shakes his head. " You are all mistaken,"
says lie. u Such combinations are enemies to
every one. Their members are nothing better than
associated outlaws : they are beyond the pale of the
humanity about which they rave."

Lorraine is getting warm. Again he feels, as in the
old days. that it is at the shrine of this false Moloch
that his Lucie has been sacrificed, — and now there are
these other two going just the same mad road !

It tries his patience. It makes indignation take
the place of sorrow.

-And yet"" begins the master, with a frown — bending
his brows sternly over his deep-set eyes — u and yet,
the most tremendous of these secret associations — the
most world-wide in its workings and authority — the
most mysterious and vast in its combination — the most
irresponsible in its laws — the most inexorable in its
ways and means — the most inflexible in its decrees—
the most impersonal, impenetrable, uncontrollable,
pitiless, and passionless, and persecuting, without remorse,
and without rebound, — exists in the name of
religion — in the name of God Himself ! "

Lorraine looks at the master with a start of pain
and surprise.

o feel — so to speak — how must he have suffered !

The master folds his arms. His face grows dark
with passion ; his mouth is hard and stern ; and a cold

learns from under his thick eyebrows.

Would not such a face become the Grand Inquisitor
himself ?

•'• ^What,*' cries he to Lorraine " is this small knot
of banded men — this puny affair that you have had a
glimpse of, to this gigantic and defiant power? — an
ant-hill to an Alp ! A power that in cold blood trains
childhood to its deadly purposes ; wh is to kill

the heart — to divide all love — whose victims are as
much within, as without — whose members are its
slaves ! A thing of falsehood and fatality — of false
gods — false teaching — false witness : — a thing no
human arm can cope with ; hydra-headed in its
vitality : — a thing which blasphemes Heaven with its
assumptions, and goes unharmed : — a thing v.
blows come not with cold steel, but by some inexplicable
sequence: — the inevitable debt is paid — a
grim smile — a shrug of the shoulder. — The world goes
on as before ! "

•• Ah ! mon maitre," cries Le Brun, the tears standing
in I : "Have patience, have hope; a time
will com-the

master's head droops dejectedly on his

•• A time will never come, Louis. And if it did i

it would be on the wheels of destruction ; — it would pull
down the world with it."

Lorraine, for himself, has no reply to give. He
sees a great soul torn to the very centre. He does
not judge him by his words, — but by his woes.

All three pass into the silence of their own
thoughts.

Le Brun speaks the first. He turns to Lorraine.
We shall hear from you sometimes."

I am a bad scribe," replies Lorraine.

"I cannot bear to think," cries the other, with
eager voice, "that you should fall out of my life
again."

Lorraine replies, with a sigh, " It is the way with
everything."

But Valerie."

There is a world of question and appeal in Le
Brun's two words.

Ah ! Valerie," sighs Lorraine, again. " Brave and
tender Valerie ! "

You suffer, my friend," says the master, the
tension of his roused spirit giving way to the returning
tide of sympathy.

Yes, you suffer ; I see it. We all suffer. We have
all to swell the deep sigh, which has traversed the
ages — and which will bear our sorrows onward with it,
unto the Ages and sorrows yet unborn."

His voice is again in the key of the comforter.

You have suffered, and you will suffer. All that
goes by the name of man suffers in the body and in
the spirit — suffers not only from the sorrows he can
tell of, but from the nameless sorrow that each one
carries in his heart. And in this lies all the sublimity
of human life. This want, this void, this wail, this

unsatisfied desire, is the germ of our immortality :

could we be content with daily bread, and with the
little all, that fills our little hour, from the cradle to
the grave, what a fall for us ! But no, — a Power Divine
forces us to aspire beyond ourselves ; yet from time
to time are our aspirations but shadows — but the
delusions of the soul ! We see the desired good close
before us ; we think to seize it, but it evades us, — we
grasp but the shadow of the substance which is therein
its illimitable distance — as unattainable as ever.
Then the misguided soul is swallowed up in its own
bitterness ; it sees the light that has led it on, sink in

the deep waters," he lifts his hand, " look up "

he cries — " high up, you will find it again there ! "

The master rises. They all stand up.

And then one more last word from Lucie's apostle.

My friends, give me your hands. You are young.
I am already old. This meeting, as we meet now,
can never be again. Hear the experience of a life
that something tells me has not long to run.

This life of ours is to be lived for life. To live
for death is a dead worship, worthy of a dead creed.
Such exists, — but it is not for such as you.

But to live worthily for life, the man must consecrate
himself to things outside himself. He cannot
sit down in a corner, and say, ' Here I will set myself
to the task of saving my own soul.'

That is not life. It is death in life.

I spoke to you just now of the aspirations of the
soul. It has also its aims. Its aspirations belong to
eternity, its aims to time — to the time within the
span of each mortal existence.

This aim outside himself is duty — duty to God,
and duty to man.

Its lamp, once lit, cannot sink in the deep waters.
Of all the lights about our path, it burns with the
steadiest flame ; not all the storms can prevail against
it. It is the lighthouse of the soul ; it can never fail
you ; it will fill your lives with joy — severe and sad
perhaps, — but still joy, — deep and inexhaustible."

Farewell and Farewell !

END OF VOL. II.

Printed BT WILLIAM CLOWES And SONS. LIMITED,
Stamford STREET AJCL. Chasing CK'

"/

> O0M&SQN

:smM

OF THE
U N Diversity
Of ILLINOIS

CZZ^c>
V.3

y^

jL^

V^A^'

PRINCE FATAL

AND

PRINCE FATAL.

By MES. Warrington,

AUTHOR OF "MY COUSIN MAURICE."

•' marriage is a desperate thing. The frogs in aesop were extreme
wise. They had a great mind to some water, but they would not leap
into the well, because they could not get out again." — Selden.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE & Livingston,

CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET.

1880.

(sall 1 iglds reserved.)

PRINTED BY WILLIAM Cleaves AND SONS, LIMITED,
SXASIFOKD STREET AND Charing CROSS.

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

Chapter PAGE

I. Saint Swithin . . . . 1

11. OuLD Ireland . . . . 18

III. Myrtilla . . . . . 31

IV. The Herdsman . . . 42

V. Deeds, not Words . . . . 57

YI. The Sea! the Sea! . . . 75

VII. Under the Porticoes . . . 83

VIII. Shrines and Solitudes . . . 100

IX. Saints and Sinners . . . 114

Interlude . . . . 130

X. The Sphinx . . . . 131

XI. The "Timon" . . . 141

XII. War, Horrid War . . . 152

XIII. His Name is up! — he may go to Bed . 175

XIV. "Helas! Je Debris le Hair ! " . . 182

XV. Married . . . . 191

XVI. Sans L'Oublier . . . . 207

XVII. The Curtain drops . . . 22y

CHAPTER I.

SAINT SWITHIN.

Sing, yoimg hearts, while still ye are —
While ye still are young and fair !
Songless age creeps on when ye
Shall despised and loveless be —
Be despised like flowers overflown,
Whence are scent and beauty gone —
Like sere lilies be despised,
Now no longer plucked or prized.

Tuscan Maggie.

Another farewell, another meeting, and another parting
! How great their significance ! And yet how
light their hold ! how brief their day !

"It is the way with everything" — as Lorraine
said — helplessly enough.

Now, when he turns his back upon this meeting and
this parting, it is with the sensations of a man, who,
having been whirled violently through the air, stands
VOL. III. . B

again on terra firma, with brain and senses vibrating
to the degree of stupor.

He is on his road to England. Why ? Simply
because he cannot bring himself to the consideration of
doing anything else.

Two other courses are fairly open to him. Considering
the afflicting loss in which Lady Laure holds
so great a share, without asking her to condone the past,
and without the risk of raising expectations, it might
seem natural — even humane, to follow the master's
suggestion, — to seek her out, and to do for her what Le
Brun and the master have so abundantly done for him !

To do Lorraine justice, the idea of this step could
never of itself — have been presented to his mind. The
thing would have gone by default, — as if, with a sponge.
Lady Laure had been clean wiped out. If Lorraine
had set up a tombstone to her in his memory, he might,
with much correctness, have inscribed upon it the word
"Effaced."

Effaced, so far as there was anything to efface. He
had said that she was simple, dignified, and faultless,
and courageous and constant. But it was a truth that,
with all her gifts and graces. Lady Laure had never
moved him ; had never left her mark upon him ; had
been no surprise, no enigma, no amusement, no excitement
; had barely pleased his eyes — not greedy after
beauty, and from the moment that Lucie appeared, had
become wholly supplementary, — had subsided into a
sort of lay figure, and was, as if she was not.

In his role of lover, Lorraine, from first to last, was
little better than a cardboard maronite. When the
strings were let go, he fell flat to the ground. It can't
be said that he ever deceived himself into believing
that he was anything much else. He had fallen from
the clouds unawares into this engagement ; he got accustomed
to it ; it was just bearable as it was ; pushed
to its limits, it became unbearable, — and thereafter
came the crisis.

So weak to get entangled ! So wanton to carry it
on ! So wicked to break it off ! It is the probable
verdict.

Of everyday occurrence are these unpremeditated
entanglements; and then the man, passionless and
loveless — either through idleness, cowardice, compassion
— or a sense of honour — goes halting long between
the two alternatives that still remain. Early, indeed,
he chooses with Lorraine. And yet it is a question
whether there is not a grim kindness in inflicting the
sharp pain — rather than in risking the lifelong drag ;
whether a blow once for all — is not better than the
chance of a fatal rebound !

Lorraine, we know, thought he had done well, — as
well as could be done under circumstances for which
he held himself only very moderately responsible ; —
quite as well done for Lady Laure, as for himself.

He may have been mistaken in his self-estimate.
Once in regular harness, he might have made a docile

sort of husband, like the rest, — what with Ms inertia?,
and Lady Laure's charms. Yet there were just the
other possibilities, and they were ugly — especially ugly
for Lady Laure herself.

But all these considerations with Lorraine are
things of the absolute past — past recalling, past regretting,
past remembering.

The smiling calm beside the blue lake ; the mad
succeeding storm ; the whirlwind of swift fate, that had
swept Lucie from the earth, — had placed the lapse of
ages between Lorraine and Lady Laure. In the perspective
of his mind, she was a mere point, and scarcely
that.

But there is a nearer perspective, — and the picture
is in his heart. It stands out in full relief. It has no
tame shadows ; yet it is soft and quiet. Bright and
warm it is too, — so bright and so warm, that Lorraine's
blood goes throbbing with its rich colouring still.

It is the picture of Valerie de Keradec.

Since he had broken away from the fair and gentle
lady of his buried past, Lorraine had come across a
woman who had avenged her sex ; — who had put to
flight, without a contest, all his preconceived ways of
thinking, speaking, and acting in regard to women ; —
who put it all to flight, without his so much as knowing
it ; who had taken him by storm at a glance ; who hit
his fancy to a nicety ; who kept him always amused,
always pleased — pleased with himself and pleased with

tier ; who drew out of him all the good in him — all the
softness, all the energy, all the earnestness, all the
courtesy; who piqued him by her frankness; who
touched him with her sentiment ; who bewitched him
with her curling velvety eyes, and with her taking little
face ; who exacted nothing, yet made him her most
devoted slave ; who had all sorts of pretty ways ; who
showed all her feelings, except her feelings for him ;
who made him believe himself safest, when danger was
nearest ; who called it Friendship, and made it Love ;
who, in the day of trouble, could forget the love-sick
woman, — and be the friend in need, and in deed.

Yes, in Valerie de Keradec, Lorraine has found the
very echo of his own heart. Why, then, after these
sore troubles — why not fly to wake that sympathetic
echo again ? Why does he hold back from the second
course ?

It may be — these sore troubles that rule his conduct.
It is not lack of feeling or of memory ; it is not
caution or distrust ; it is not weariness or satiety.
Absent, she still stirs his heart, as it has never been
stirred before, — his brave and tender Salerne.

She is always the Yalerie of that first and last embrace.
Fond as was the parting, he could go without
fear to as fond a meeting, for Yalerie has kept all
chains out of reach of eye and ear.

And yet he does not go.

Yes, whether Yalerie or Laure, he is as far from
seeking the one as the other. He gives no account to

himself of all this ; he has no motives, no objects, no
plans. As far as he can say, plus his title, and his large
fortune, he is going back to England to take up the
life, he left behind in it.

Loughmore — with its images of gloom, its deserted
rooms, its dark waters, its misty vales, its lonely glades,
looms in the distance. But — let Uncle Loftus sleep a
little longer before his new-made heir comes brushing
the dew off the sod. Wait a while, till the grass grows
green over his head.

It was Saint Swithin's Day when Lorraine, his six
months' leave nearly doubled, walked about dinner-time
into the mess-room of his regiment.

In the morning he had come up from Dover,
having slept at the Warden over-night.

The white cliffs the day before, had given him a
dazzling greeting, and as he steamed into the harbour
it struck him that these blue depths of sky and sea,
rivalled the hues that had been wearying his eyes for
months.

It's all a sham, those Southern skies," says he to
himself.

But Saint Swithin, who was well on the look-out,
with his watering-pot, made him suffer for his slander
of poor Lucie's new paradise, before he was twenty-four
hours older.

By the time lie got into London, there was no confusion
of ideas as to skies and skies in summer weather ;
something near upon thick darkness prevailed at noonday.
And the rain, — there was no mistake about the
rain either. It fell as if it had never fallen before ; — it
came down with the force of a new sensation, or as if
the clouds were in revolt, or as if a new Deluge was to
be the upshot of the matter.

Hansoms — they were just coming in — cut about, over
the crossings and round the corners, fins et gallants,
in all the pride and glory of their high-stepping screws
and brand-new paint.

More than one unlucky pedestrian, taking his
shower bath and wading up to the ankles, fell a victim
that day to the victorious vehicles.

Lorraine got through the half-dozen things ho had
to do with little delay. It was his misfortune, being
an idle man, that he couldn't dawdle over what he
had to do.

Within something like a couple of hours — thanks,
possibly, to one of the aforesaid two-wheelers, as much
as to his own energy — he managed to report himself at
head-quarters, go to the livery stables, choose rooms
at the Albany, and call upon his banker and his
tailor.

Then he looks at his watch, and looks all round.
There is absolutely nothing more to be done.

He might go to the club. But no, — he wasn't upto
gossip, smoking, and ecarte to-day.

As he is passing, he looks in at the Academy. It
will soon be closed.

Looking at pictures ! — the most bilious thing alive,
and scarcely worth the suffering ; but he gets through
an hour or so, chiefly by sitting down with his eyes
shut. Then he is off again, this time on foot, — it will
spin out the time. Everything looks wonderfully
secure, to be sure, and wonderfully wealthy. Security
and securities ; — yes, that is the Briton's boast.
Chartism nowhere, except en Vair. There is a tinge
of heaviness all about; but under such a sky the
Venus de' Medici would look lumpy.

South-west by west he steers, till he finds himself
inside the old circle of things again.

As he walks across the barrack yard, he thinks
he never beheld anything so depressingly hideous in
his life.

He turns into the stables ; interviews his servant,
who seems glad to see him. But what they have to say
to each other is soon said.

The man has done his duty by the horses, and he
gets a five-pound note. The horses seem to know
their master, and make a low whinnying which is
gratifying. The stable-dog leaps up; but he is a
mongrel cur, and excites nothing but a sigh for the
absent Mufti.

The dog's name is Mops.

Down, Mops, down," says the servant.

This is aggravating ; — it is so near to Mufti.

Like Mufti the faithless, and like Bijou the faithful,
— Lorraine turns out of the stables, — yawning
horribly.

Many a hearty shake of the hand ; many a cordial
How are you ? " and much friendly congratulation,
make up Lorraine's welcome, as he walks into the
midst of his old friends again.

In the van stands the doctor, — a single man, and
not too rich, and never known to be absent at dinner.

"Better?" asks he, closing one eye, as if for a
microscopic observation.

I've had nothing the matter," answers Lorraine.

Ah ! I thought it was sick leave," says the doctor,
as if correcting himself.

So it was," returns Lorraine. And he begins to
yawn again.

"Come, old fellow," says the friend to whom he
had delivered his parting blessing. " This is too bad ;
you look as bored as ever — and yet "

Lorraine cuts the "and yet" short. He detects
a dangerous smile in the corners of the speaker's
mouth.

"What would you have?" says he. "I'm dead
tired ; and the weather is beastly ;eyes, beastly is the
word."

As for the weather, it's been splendid till to-day,"
says the doctor.

Ah ! well," returns Lorraine ; " I suppose I've

brought this to you, by way of a change. You may
look out for storms now I've come among you. I've
caught the knack of brewing them ; " and a grim
smile follows the words.

Faith," cries a fellow-countryman ; " then you've
come back somebody else, I suppose ; for that's not
you at all ! "

"And yet," says his other friend, resuming his
interrupted speech, "report says that you have
come straight from a fair lady's feet. You didn't get
your stormy habits there, did you ? "

Report is a liar," returns Lorraine, bluntly.

Well, it's the talk of the clubs, and there's the
lady's father for authority."

Lorraine cursed the lady's father in his shroud, for a
gossipping old idiot. Then he starts round and says,
with the look of an animal at bay —

The lady's feet I do come from is the red goddess
of the Paris mob."

Lorraine's tactics were not bad. He turned the
talk right round. Half a dozen questions assail him.

Were you in the thick of it ? "

Did you storm a barricade ? "

Was it really so bloody ? "

Did you see many shot down ? "

"Awoke pretty often to the tune of the Paris-angelus,
I suspect," says the doctor, — who had studied
medicine in the emotional city, under some revolution
or another.

Angelus," — repeats Lorraine, absently ; and this
mind flies off to a mixed picture, — a grey city of the
dead, chill and misty ; — and snowy little Sanctuaries,
dotting the purple hills beside a deep blue sea.

Angelus, to be sure," repeats the doctor. " 'Tis
another name for the din of their rajpjpel. I remember
we turned out every night for a week from our
Quartier Latin, to its drumming."

Ah ! to be sure," comes from Lorraine.

The words are drowned in much laughter, at the
doctor's new application. He was the wit of the party,
and it was the habit to laugh at all he said, whether
witty or not.

Lorraine escaped into the Park when the dinner
broke up. What with " the lady's father," the doctor's
jokes, his fellow-countryman's brogue, the pungent
tobacco, the witless mirth, — he had had enough of
this revival of olden days for a first dose.

But the other extreme that he has plunged into
is equally distasteful.

As he skirts the Side, and turns up by the water —
though the nine o'clock guard has not yet been told
off — he scarcely meets a soul. Round by the gardens
it is still more dismal; the damp hangs in the
branches, the rain drips from the leaves, and the wind

sighs and soughs, as if each old tree held an imprisoned
dryad.

What a sponge of a country it is ! " cries Lorraine.
"No wonder we cut our throats periodically, and
drown ourselves upon a system ! And what a lot of
kill-joys we are at the best ! As for those fellows,
of course, they can't help it ; and there's no harm in
them ; but, one way or another, they've become insufferable
to me. I suppose I've got out of the go of it all, —
if I ever was in it ! Anyhow, I can't stand it at present,
that's a fact."

Lorraine gives a shiver. " Here's a pretty evening
for the middle of summer ! "

Then he looks round him. " And here's a pretty-desert
for the middle of a city ! in the middle of the
season, too ! "

Lorraine had altogether lost sight of St. Swithin
and his watering-pot. But he hit the right nail on
the head when he said he was " out of the go of it."

The earth and sky, the places and peoples, the
ways and words, the habits and manners, the friends
and the company, he had left behind him, — were too
entirely opposed to this first night's home experiences,
for him to take to the change right off, — without a
growl and a grumble.

Those balmy nights by that deep blue sea ! Those
children of the sun, who slept so little and sang so

much! That etherealized dulness, — so endurable,
after all !

That gracious lady, at whose feet he had, in truth,
sat bodily so many hours a day, in spite of his vindictive
retort upon Rumour's false tongue !

And that friend — with the dazzling eyes, and the
tender heart, and the far-reaching soul !

And that other blue-eyed water! that moonlit
lake ! that island garden ! those holiday folks ! those
silver trout ! that ruby Rhein win !

Good Heavens ! What would he not give at this
moment — his dinner digesting — to be taking a beating
from the old moustache, with Mufti and Mufti's mistress
within close reach of hand and eye ?

Then in his mind's camera, rises the modest interior
of the Rue Chateaubriand, with its fierce background,
its fiery lights — life-stirring scenes — soul-stirring
thoughts — the master's martyrdoms — Le Brun's
heroism — Lucie's last rest — that last night's communing,
— that last farewell !

It is too much for solitude. He hurries across the
foot-track, comes out by the lodge, and passes through
the gates. Here he comes upon the blaze of gas and
the stream of traJBSc. Plenty of faces ! But he may
walk a mile without encountering a smile. Every one
is in haste — every one intent, every Voice under its
breath. If some one would only seem to be out for
his pleasure ! If some one would only laugh ! If someone
would only sing !

One of the doctor's bad jokes would be a saving
mercy, if it could only break the monotony of this
lugubrious gravity.

Stop ! What is that ? Yes ; he has got his wish.
Lorraine throws back his head to listen. Yes, 'tis the
human voice, pitched in a musical key. A smile
crosses his face ; he pushes on, as pleased as a child —
as eager as a dilettante to catch the first note of a new
prima donna.

It is no emma donna, though it is a woman.

A dozen paces up a private street stands a black
figure ; the bonnet hangs back on the shoulder ; the
dark hair falls loose ; in the glare of the gas above it,
the sallow and sunken face looks wan and wild.

The voice is a broken contralto, worn with rough
usage and rude necessity ; but it has been a voice once.
The refrain rings out with the true artist touch —

Joli mois de Mai, mois de mes amours,
Quand reviewers tu ! —

Jamais! ah, jamais!"

This poor waif is a Frenchwoman then, — waking
the echoes of the quiet street with her " Jamais I ah,
jamais ! "

Lorraine is inspired to go up to her. He puts a
piece of gold into her hand.

The woman starts as the yellow coin glistens in the
lamp-light. She takes a glance at his face ; the face
decides the wavering honesty.

'Tis gold ! " She holds it out to him. Her spoken
voice is low and hoarse, and it has its unmistakable
alien accent.

Lorraine puts it away. " Keep it, my poor creature,"
he says.

The woman turns her eyes full upon him ; though
the cheeks are faded, the eyes keep their fires — soft
fires ; velvety eyes, with the tears brimming over the
curling lashes.

Lorraine thrills as he stands. These eyes ; they
are Valerie's! — the eyes of his brave and tender
Valerie ! More gold — still more gold — he presses
into the thin, brown hand.

Go ! " he cries — " go back to your own happy
country ! "

Ah ! never ! " says she. " They would not listen ;
they would not give me this ! " And she holds up
the yellow gold in the dazzle of the gas.

Lorraine walks on ; he no more looks out for smiles
and songs. He is absorbed, like the rest. There is
still much to do, — much to be balanced, before he can
square things all round.

I suppose I was a fool for my pains," thinks he,
as he nears his new rooms, — summing up the episode
of the quiet street.

*' She had fine eyes, though, — Valerie's eyes, tears
and all ! " Yes, just that tearful glance that bade him
adieu !

Mois de mes amours'' murmurs he, with his
resonant baritone, well kept in. "She had a good
voice. Poor creature ! What will become of her ? "
He hums it again, " Jamais ! ah, jamais ! It's immensely
pathetic. I wonder who wrote it. I'll try
and get it."

And he did try, — and he didn't succeed ; but it
was all one. To the end of his life, from time to
time, Lorraine broke out with the refrain — with the
plaintive pitch of the one high note, and with the
dying fall, " Jamais ! all, Jamais ! "

There's your old song again ! " said his friends.
Everybody knew it; everybody called it his; and
nobody knew any more about it. " How does it go on ? "
"Where did you learn it?" " Who wrote it ? " *^ Where
did you find the air ? " But Lorraine knew nothing, —
so he said.

Some hearts sighed to it ; some lips smiled to it.
And as the years sped, these same hearts ceased to beat
and these same lips ceased to smile ; but Lorraine
sang — still sings on; sometimes sings, and sometimes
smiles, and sometimes yawns, and rarely sighs.

Such, for him, is the life ordained !

The next day beholds a quite new programme for
our hero. He puts his name down for the next and
last levee of the season. Within a week he is duly
presented, "on his accession to his title." He gets
extended leave, upon the plea of pressing affairs ; and,
though St. Swithin has still fifteen days to run out, he
bribes him to become a false prophet; and starts for
Loughmore, with the south wind filling his sails, a
blue sky overhead, and a sun worthy of the dog days.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER II.

OULD Ireland.

Three merry gipsies once I found

Under a tree together,
Whilst my car, with a creaking sound,

Slid o'er the sandy heather.

One delighting himself alone,

Fiddle in hand, was seated ;
And, as on him the sunlight shone.

Rollicking songs repeated.

Another watched how the eddies curl'd,

Smoking away at leisure.
Seeming sure that the whole wide world

Had not a greater pleasure.

Stretched along was the third, and slept ;

On a branch his cymbal swinging ;
Through whose chords, as the breezes swept,

Dreams to his heart were singing.

Patched and torn are the clothes they wear,

Little but rags and tatters ; —
Devil a bit the gipsies care

About such trifling matters.

Thus, thrice over, I've learnt to scoff

Sorrows that e'er pursue me, —
To smoke, to fiddle, to dream them off.

Should ever life be gloomy.

Onward plodding, I long looked back
On the group from which I parted ;

Those dark faces, and curls of black,
Seeming so careless-hearted.

After Lena.

Notwithstanding the aforesaid favourable auspices,
Lorraine landed upon his ancestral shores with a predetermined
disgust.

It was all in vain that Dublin Bay looked its very
best. In vain that the Wicklow Hills shone crimson,
tipped in the rising sun. In vain that the handsome
terraced city, rose fair and white, out of its umbrageous
surroundings. In vain that the western mountains
hung soft and purple in the shadowy distance. In
vain that the crested waves fringed the bold promontory
with a line of snow. In vain, on this rare
summer morning, that the air was as subtly clear as
in a Southern climate. The only thing it did for
Lorraine — was to bring up before him the Land of his
Enchantments, and to give him a shudder like the
echo of a bad dream.

They are soon alongside of the quay.

Now, it is not to be doubted that to step cheerfully
from shipboard to terra fir ma, — to land pleasantly
anywhere, requires a previous stock of hope and good
spirits — a certain confidence in what you are stepping
into.

This short voyage had been a somewhat longer one
than usual ; but Lorraine had not complained of this
tardiness. He had the gift of patience ; and he had
another gift, which landsmen call — "being a good
sailor ; " and, moreover, the safe repose of these wooden
walls, which shut out the strife, of crowding numbers
of men and women, — was inexpressibly welcome to him.

But his landing sent him into the thick of it all
again. His baggage was seized upon by a quartet of
lusty tatterdemalions, and he himself had hard work to
stand his ground as they pressed round him, pouring
forth the national tongue in the most cajoling accents.

It's me, Dick O'Malley, that's been on the lookout
for ye all this blessed night," says one.

Git gone, ye rascal," cries the second ; " and isn't
it me the one, that's sent down express for the gentleman,
by the guv'nor himself?"

And whare will I have the pleasure iv taking yer
honour ? " inquires a third.

And whare will this be going to ? " asks the
fourth, clinging desperately to hat-box, and carpet bag !

Lorraine positively sickens at the sound ; he takes
it as the type of the entire country.

But he survives the first brunt of it ; and after that
it comes easier to him.

The Capital did not detain him ; he saw nothing in

it to attract. He pursued this journey to his possessions
leisurely; there were no affairs to hurry about. At
the present moment his life had not a single goal
before it, except its end.

He travelled by cars, stopping here and there, as
his inclination, or the time of day, decided. His way
was west by south. As he advanced, locomotion became
more and more arduous ; but it was scarce a
penance to move at a foot pace by these mountains
and lakes, and these blue rivers ; — these breezy moorlands,
redolent of fresh fern odours and fragrant peat
burnings, — issuing from some unseen cabin or secret
whisky still.

Exquisite solitudes ! which, with all his heart, Lorraine
enjoys.

It was with these amended feelings that he arrived
at dusk, with his one-horse car and its ragged driver,
at the place which figured as the post-town to
Loughmore.

The only building above the level of a hovel in
it, was a small hostelry, built by his grandfather,
for the convenience of arriving and departing guests.
He had written to secure — till further orders — the one
bed-chamber it boasted, iii ease he might find it convenient
to wait there for the night, before going onto
the Castle, — a distance of some six Irish miles
or so.

Making sure of the empty bedroom, Lorraine was
not inclined to announce himself by name. That was a

moment much dreaded by him ; — a dread, — he was free
to confess to himself, — if to no one else.

"For this night," thinks he, "I will still belong
to myself. Heaven knows what nuisances are not in
store for me tomorrow ! "

So, hitting his hat against the low doorway of the
house, he calls out for the landlord.

Now Tim Phelim, who at this epoch filled the
important post of landlord of the Loughmore Arms,
was a considerable respecter of persons. Making his
observations out of the tap-room window, he at once
decided that this arrival was one of no account. He
had been looking for an arrival night and day, to be
sure — anxiously looking ; but that would come up after
a very different fashion, — outriders at the least, if the
exigencies of the roads impeded a carriage and four.
So he took his time in presenting himself at the
door.

You seem to be all asleep," says Lorraine.

Never a bit iv it," returns Tim Phelim, coolly.

I want a room for the night."

Yell be in luck to get one, thin," is the reply.

You have a room."

Fist so," is Tim's curt rejoinder.

"Where is it?"

"Aviary is it invade! Whare should it be but
under the roof?"

Lorraine prepares to look for this room under the
roof, himself.

But the landlord seizes him by the coat. " What
wud ye be after ? " he cries.

I am going to find this room."

"The Lord forgive us! — And what wunna, ane iv
yer sort be going' for next ? "

Phelim has an undisguised contempt for the
supposed nationality of the traveller.

Lorraine endeavours to shake him off; but mine
host only holds on the tighter.

I'll be obliged to ye to guv up that ! " says he.
D'ye happen to know who's inside that room, at this
vera time ? An' if ye don't know, I'll be after telling
ye, that it's just his honour o' the Castle, arrived frae
the foreign parts ; it's just Sir Claude himsel' ! "

Sir Claude ! " exclaims Lorraine. The statement
was sufficient to unfounded our hero for a moment.

Could any one be personating him ? But no ; there
was a most veracious look in Phelim's face.

Nonsense," says Lorraine. " I shall be obliged to
you to prepare that room, and pretty quickly ! "

Then Phelim rises to the occasion.

'' Devil a go ye'll get in there this night ! " Then
he stops short. " An' if ye'll no be after behaving' iv
me word, I'll just call a witness to the fore, though we'd
no deserve that I should tak' the trouble iv convincing
iv ye — at all."

Whereupon Phelim retires with his injured
innocence, and, seizing Barney, his Jack-of-all-trades,
by the ear, whispers into it —

War' for the life iv ye, that Sir Claude himsel'
is in the bed up thar, or I'll sink ye pretty deep, and
no mistake."

I'll answer, never fear ! "

And so Barney goes to the fore. He is a person
capable of all sorts of swearing — at the least ; he can
swear black or white, or both. It may have come
of his vicarious offices — tasman, boots, and ostler
in one.

Lorraine's petulance is subsiding into something
like amusement at this first specimen of the trustworthiness
of his tenantry.

Barney comes forward to where he is standing, with
a fine swagger in his air.

And isn't it for me to speak' out, and to tell ye the
word that I know ? — for didn't I tuck his honour in
betwixt the sheets an hour agone by the clock, with
these vera hands ? "

Lorraine's gravity altogether gives way.

If you did, he's got out of them again," says he ;
for I am Sir Claude Lorraine. And now get me some
supper, and put some candles in my room."

It was thus that Lorraine took his leap in the dark
into the midst of "the nuisances." And it was, perhaps,
the least harassing way of making his first plunge into
them ; — it made him laugh, at any rate.

But Barney's master has a word to say to him in
private.

Te would hay then," cries he. " An' what were ye

after, sticking that big lie on to the tail of the truth
fur?"

The truth ! the truth ! " cries Barney. " Oh,
thin, ye reprobate. It's hold me tongue that I will
after this. The civil a taste iv it, if I lie again fur ye,
Tim Phelim ! "

And what axed ye ? " retorts Tim.

What axed me ! Didn't ye war' by the Lord we'd
sink me, if I was not to the fore to war' out my two
eyes, that his honour was lying up thar in the bed, — an'
he standing' thar, sat an' aise, all the blessed time ? "
groans Barney.

An' if I did, ye black varmint, am I to have me
own mither's best linen put under the first ne'er-do-weel
that comes up to the door ? — an' i very thing set
out as fine as paradise, too ? "

It is a clenching argument, and Barney, who is no
sophist ; — as he says " holds his tongue." But it is
as an aggrieved man that he gives in.

As for Tim Phelim, he is unacquainted with shame.
He accepts the change in the face of affairs with
alacrity ; pushes Barney into the background ; does the
honours to Lorraine in his own person ; and when he
sets the grilled salmon before him, he remarks that his
honour will not get it better cooked at the Castle
itself.

Barney slinks off to the stables, and pours forth his
woes into the sympathizing heart of the ragged car-driver.


Mush ! " says he, " it's a pig that he is ! "

The — " he " — is the unabashed Tim Phelim.

An' he in thar after going' in to his honour as

would as brass. On — gh faith ! " — sighs Barney — " an'

I'll never forget it."

The home-coming of the succeeding heir is ever a
gracious event. It is in human nature happily to have
more sympathies with things present than past ; and
although the world promises itself soon to have done
with kings, yet the proverb, " Le roi est mort ; vive le
roi," will still hold good here below.

Lorraine's stealthy advance had, indeed, in his case,
shorn his home-coming of its glories, — had put aside
blazing peat fires, triumphal arches, crowds and processions,
banners flying, and the like.

And even now that he was recognized, the most
enthusiastic were scarcely impelled to unharness the
poor beast that had brought him thus far, and to supply
its place to the one-horse car.

But this was a small matter with these warmhearted
people. They got no end of whisky, at any
rate, to drink his health in ; and that was the main
thing.

There was little ceremony amongst them, and, what
was better, no discontent. They had had their own way
for many a generation. It was not, perhaps, the best way ;

but it gave them all they wanted — whisky and potatoes,
and wild game in abundance ; fishing, too, by coast and
lake and river ; for the lands of Loughmore stopped
only with the sea, — and the fishing, like the game, was
to be had for the taking. If they had no specified
rights over the one or the other, there was no one to
say them nay.

Light rents, too, or no rents, as the law of custom
had decreed ; — those who had always paid rent, paid it ;
those who had never paid it, lived rent free. If the
latter were too idle to be independent, the former were
too proud to be dependent. There was room for all, and
somehow, both in the Castle and the cabin, both ends
did a great deal more than meet. It was not the most
profitable way for any one perhaps, but it was perfectly
patriarchal.

In these distant wilds, far away south by west, the
race was pure — Irish of the Irish ; no mongrel mixture
with either Saxon or Scotchman. If they swore by the
Green, you must go beyond their boundaries to fall in
with the white and the yellow — with Eibbonism and
Oranges. A free fight amongst themselves, without
malice, and for their own personal pleasure, was their
sole fisticuff enjoyment. The agent and the exciseman,
born and bred amongst them, went with safe skins, and
the noblest quarry that fell to their shots was a shy
woodcock flying low.

Want was kept at bay — for if potatoes ran short —
no one was without a pound to buy better food. They

were not great at management, — they had yet to learn
what can be done with a handful of grain, though
sown on the top of a mountain ; — still, to all intents,
they lived hy the land, as well as on it. ,

Lorraine saw into things by degrees, and after his
own fashion, — saw enough to wish to let well alone.

Sir Loftus had drained nothing out of the estate, —
and, with his own peculiar difficulty of getting rid of
money, he was not likely to drain it either.

Some day or other," said he, " I'll see into those
fisheries;" and that was his one idea for the present, of
future improvement.

But if he took his responsibilities too lightly, and
looked with too superficial a glance at the interests of
his possessions, he surveyed with no indifferent eye
their external charms.

The Castle, in truth, was gloomy enough. But these
broad lands that spread beneath the sky ; — with what
a charm did they strike him ! — a charm too, as of something
old, and of something very new.

It was full summer still, and the season was enchanting.
Here there was no chained air, no breathless
atmosphere.

The west winds came over the moorlands charged
with the fresh flavour of a thousand miles of ocean.
Here there was no stereotyped glare of unmitigated
sunshine to bring up his cold shudders. All day
long the inconstant shadows chased each other momentarily
over mountain and lake. Here there was

no strip of earth, narrowed betwixt shore and height,
to make him chafe at prison bounds. Here water and
land interchanged freely. The variety was endless, the
stretch seemed boundless. The lakes lay with their
black islands thick with yew ; the fat green meadows
spread seaward, awaiting only the fat cattle to graze
on them ; miles of brown bog and rock-strewn heather
spread far and near; and in the midst, up-springing, rose
the mountains, with their conical shapes and their fantastic
distances, hiding many a dark cave and defile
never touched by ray of sun, and many a rock-bound
tarn, known only to the birds of the air.

Matchless, too, was the solitude in its safe repose ;
and yet swarming with life. Here, where for a generation,
the huntsman's horn and the cry of the hound had
never sounded, all wild creatures found their Garden of
Eden. From copse and glen came the whirr of the
winged game ; under your feet scurried the rabbit and
the hare ; all unawares you came upon the grand red
deer, — neither his race nor his lichens as yet uprooted
by new men and new measures ; all tribes of webfooted
fowl peopled the lakes — the red plover and the
curlew with its plaintive call, and even the solitary
bittern's boom was still to be heard there. Such was
the wild Eden that Lorraine found ready to his f )ot.

And all his own ! It was not the sort of paradise
he had left behind in the Land of his Enchantments ;
and he thanked Heaven for it !

The great gap that divided him from his earliest

recollections closed up, as by a magic teach. With
unpremeditated feelings, he went straight back again,
through the years, to their very beginning. Even as
then he had roamed wild and free and happy, so now
came the same sensations of careless pleasure, as he faced
the fresh sea air from some breezy hill, or walked
through the mountain mist, or took his risk across the
bog, or lay stretched at noonday, between tufts of bog-myrtle
and heather, upon a bed of fern.

At times as he so lay, with half-closed eyes, and
senses lulled with the murmur of the insects, and the
mountain fragrance, and the stillness of human life, —
all that had intervened between those years, and these,
seemed to him but a tissue of visions ; — Lucie, Lady
Laure, Valerie, — they were none of them half so real —
as Uncle Loftus seated in his chair, watching the burning
peat.

CHAPTER III.

MYKTILLA.

Thus writes the cynic of his age
Neath Cupid's image on the page —

Whoe'er you are, your master, know,

He is, or was, or will be so ! "

But all one's life cannot be passed dreaming away,
under the sky, upon a breezy hill-side. Amongst other
sufficient determines, skies may be drenching and hillsides
damp, — a not unfrequent accompaniment to life
in the open in this wild Eden. The alternative upon
such days was to be sought, as Tim Phelim might
have expressed it, " under the roof." But as the Castle
stood, the alternative was rather a forlorn one.

The word "gloomy" scarcely expressed its condition.
Something like a century — possibly you might
make it two — had passed over its grey walls without a
single meuhle being altered or replaced, and for half a
century or more these same meubles had hardly gone
through the form of being so much as moved. It
needs but little imagination to fill in the picture.

For a mortal endowed with the aesthetic tastes of

the present day, to come in for such a field as it offered,
would be such an intoxicating windfall, as possibly to
turn his craze into downright craziness ; — the gros lot
of the lottery tickets would be nothing to it. But
unluckily for Lorraine, his mind did not take even
mildly to these distractions. The utmost efforts of
his genius in the way of restoration amounted to the
brushing out two of the reception-rooms, and having
the old rooms he had lived in as a boy fitted up for
himself.

This done, there was little to do further, save to eat
and sleep and look down into that black moat which
had had such an ominous effect upon his worthy
nurse.

But it is time, perhaps, to say a word about this
worthy nurse herself, — still in the land of the living,
and not less comely and flourishing, than when she
first entered the grim portals of the Castle full five
and twenty years gone by. Strong as were her first
antipathies to the house and its master, she has still
stuck to the spot, — out of love to her nursling, so she
says ; — but also because, for these last twenty years,
secretly or openly, she has been the faithful spouse and
better half of Mr. Burke. No more cogent reasons for
overcoming the force of first impressions could possibly
be adduced.

Even before young Claude was despatched to Eton,
it had become a question with Sir Loftus what was to
be done with this good woman.

Give her money and send her off," said Sir Loftus
to his confidant.

But an' if she won't be after going' ? " suggests
Burke.

Won't be after going ! " cries Sir Loftus. "But she
will be after going, and at once."

It'll break the young master's heart."

Sir Loftus heaved a heavy sigh. He knew all
about broken hearts ; and thereupon he fell into one of
his long dreams.

Sitting' thar," as Burke used to say ; " a-thinking'
all about nothing."

The next day, Sir Loftus put a sum of money into
the honest Burke's hands.

Put a bed," he said, " into the Lough Beg Lodge,
and send the woman there ; but mind you, I'll have
no gates unbarred — no gates unbarred."

The sum of money covered a good many more
household necessaries than the bed Sir Loftus considerately
provided; and within a few weeks, nurse
was standing, with her comely face, at as pretty a lodge
doorway as heart could desire. How she was to
subsist there was not a matter that Sir Loftus concerned
himself about. But since this devoted woman,
by the marriage tie, was already Mrs. Burke, there
was no difficulty in the way of these two going shares
with board as well as bed.

VOL. III. D

The society of the outer world — one of the paramount
nuisances which Lorraine had pictured to himself
— proved to be neither a nuisance nor the reverse.
It was too scattered for much intercourse. What there
was of it was well bred and well mannered and cordial, —
and, after all, Lorraine found nothing amiss with it,
except its scarcity. With all his imaginary dread of
his fellow-creatures, the actual man was of a sociable
and gregarious turn ; and found himself more cheerful
in the company of the dullest heads in the world than
in no company at all. He was not hard to please
either. His tastes inclined always to the simpler side
of things — simple people, simple words, simple songs,
simple life.

What so natural, then, as that Lorraine should
bestow some of his vacant hours upon his second
mother, the tenant of the Lough Beg Lodge ?

It was a picturesque exterior. Here the hand of
man had not been idle; the fairest of the floral
treasures, culled from bog and glen, bloomed here in
sweet luxuriance. Bound the rustic porch, and
framing the low lattices, twined thick masses of green
myrtle; — not such myrtle as grows south, not such
myrtle as tries to grow north ; but such myrtle as grows
only in the moist wealth of this Western Isle ; no
withers, stunted sticks, no parched-up, dusty boughs,
fragrant, succulent, exuberant.

The deep shade of the black yews — the tree of the
country — fabulously old, shelters the low roofing. And
a stone's throw behind lay the lake that gave it its
name — a gem of watery beauty, wide, open, catching
the sun all day and the moon all night. It was green,
too, like all the rest; its clear waters reflecting its
green banks with such a mimic truth, that as you
looked down into its far depths, and beheld the growing
trees and the grazing sheep, you were fain to
believe in the fabled meadows of the fairy lore of the
land.

In calm days this glassy lough scarce moved a
petal of the water-lilies that floated upon its bosom ;
but in the fury of a western gale, it too grew furious, —
fatally furious, it might be, to those who were caught
crossing it at the worst moment.

The interior of this rustic lodge is also picturesque.
Not too much light, but always the peat
fire gleaming, and the door half ajar, — this last, the
necessity of something too much now and then, of the
smoke. But peat smoke is fragrant, and moreover, when
taken in moderation, imparts to an interior a rich
brown hue, reminding you of a Rembrandt or a Teniers'
touch, thereby favouring also the picturesque. The
space is roomy, the quaint old furniture somewhat
scanty ; but you see the better who is moving about :
a central table, that does not change its place, fixed to
the log floor ; six chairs, all armed and easy ; an

armoire ; a small book-stand and table in one, with a
modern look to it, a mirror over it, and a rush chair
beside it ; and everything rubbed up to the highest
degree of homely polish. There is another fragrance in
the room; it comes from the fresh rush mats which
stand in front of each armchair.

The hearth is wide, and the chimney wide too,
arranged for the smoking. On one side sits nurse ; —
the name still clings to her; it is the name of all
others that she still loves the best. Beside her
stands her wheel; she has learnt to spin, like the
rest here, and she spins well too. On the other side,
in something more of a chimney corner, sits Mr. Burke
himself. No longer the active-stepping Mr. Burke of
former days. He looks now of great age, with a gentle
and venerable face, surrounded by long white hair. He
is feeble, and his hands continually tremble. His
voice is the firmest thing he retains of the happy
days of his prime, and he likes to use it. Mr. Burke
indulges more than ever in his glorious histories of
Cormac Lharhane and his peers.

The third figure in this interior is charming in
contrast, and charming in fact : — a young girl.

If you saw her for the first time, you must be struck
by her rare beauty. But you would be struck with
something more, — a candid daring, at once ingenuous
and resolute. Her clear grey eyes — clear as an eagle's
glance — meet yours quite honestly, and without a
blush. Her complexion, browned by the air, yet white

as snow at the roots of her auburn hair, has a splendid
glow in it. And this hair, the gift of her Kentish
kindred, has a glow, too, tinged with the gold-red of
setting suns. It sits upon her head like a fine coronet,
and she carries it with all the pride of a young queen.
Tall, robust, and strong, — her figure is full and finished,
and her bare white arms befit a young Amazon. .

This is Myrtilla — Myrtilla Burke, — a beautiful
young woman in her eighteenth year, born under the
roof of the Lough Beg Lodge, the very month which
saw Lorraine an Eton boy.

As it happened, things could not have fallen out
more opportunely.

The mother took the babe in her arms. " God is
good," she cried. "He has sent me this in place of
Master Claude."

The father planted a myrtle by the door. "She
shall be called Myrtilla," said he.

In bestowing this name upon his daughter, — Burke
looked both far forward and backward.

Tak' gut care, wife, o' the darling," said he to her
mother, " an' we'll live to see the day yit, when the
gates 'ill be unbarred fur another Sir Claude ; an' our
Myrtilla 'ill be the first to hand him the grandfather's
sprig o' myrtle."

It all came true ; only Burke's second sight didn't
go so far as to see the new Sir Claude's look of amazed
admiration, at the magnificent portress, — or the trembling
wonder, rapture, and shame, that swept through the

young Myrtilla, — as that look of amazed admiration
sank deep into her heart. It was given in honest
innocence, in honest ignorance of the expression it
conveyed and the effect it produced. But it did not
fall harmless all the same.

It was Lorraine's first realization of what Irish
beauty — the beauty of the South — is in woman.

Those who know what that beauty is, in face,
figure, air, and carriage, will be inclined to absolve
Lorraine for his look of amazed admiration.

But there was yet a fourth to complete this rustic
interior. There was beauty here too — fine manly
beauty, but it was not of the soil. It was a youth
who stood six feet two without his shoes. He had
laughing blue eyes, and curly brown hair, and a mouth
that laughed as much as his eyes. He had a healthy,
florid colour, and a good bold walk. He had nothing
of the clod-hopper about him ; yet he was a tiller of
the ground and a tender of the cattle, the son of a
Kentish yeoman of very low degree.

After " Master Claude," — as was natural Mrs. Burke's
pride centred in her Myrtilla. As she grew day by
day to her womanly perfections, Mrs. Burke laid out
many plans, which for the most part she hid in her
heart.

She had, as she had proved, got over her local
prejudices as far as Mr. Burke went ; but then, from
the first, she had found him affable — unlike the rest

of them, and she could understand what he said; —
she had understood it, in fact, to very good purpose.

But — for the rest of them ! Well, they never got
nearer to her heart than they did the first day ; to her
mind, they were always a rude, outlandish brood, more
to be avoided than conciliated.

It followed, therefore, that the most alarming bugbear
in Mrs. Burke's eye Alas the possibility of this
wild brood furnishing a mate for her precious Myrtilla.
Many silent vows did she make to herself that this
climax of disaster should never come to pass.

It was to this end, therefore, that young Harry
English, the Kentish yeoman, appeared upon the
scene. It is needless to follow out the wary steps by
which she gained her point. She allowed her hand
only to be seen by degrees — and she played it skilfully
— so that now, in the twelfth month of the youth's
presence here, he had been for the last three of these
months the affianced lover of the fair Myrtilla.

Myrtilla herself neither said nay nor yea. There
were no rivals on the ground, at any rate; and so,
without much persuasion or coyness, Myrtilla let herself
be disposed of after her mother's heart.

Mr. Burke had little to say to the matter. Infirm
and partially blind, and with a fine respect for his
wife's prudent sagacity, he had only acquiescence to
give to all her proposals.

The young pretender, too, had something universally
winning about him. Frank and light-hearted and ready-handed,

and entirely without fear and without prejudice,
— he fraternized with the youth all round, as if
he had been to the manner born amongst them.

The one drawback to the alliance was the staunchness
with which Harry stood to the determination that
he would take his bride across the seas, and settle
down with her upon his father's few acres. Mrs. Burke,
in her secret heart, acknowledged that he was right ;
even more, — it was the thing she desired. And yet she
dreaded it. She wished both ways, as we often are
driven to do.

But to Myrtilla, it was the real attraction — the only
attraction in the affair. The girl's mind was not a
mere tabula rasa, upon which to write her maiden fancies
down. She, too, like her mother, had her ideas — her
secret plans, which she unfolded to no one.

She was ambitious. She wanted a wider scope.
She would see beyond these lakes and mountains.
She would hear people speak, one and all, in the
smooth speech of the gentry folk. She had sat at the
feet of her mother from her babyhood, listening to
her tales of the fine things to be seen, and the fine
ways people had of going on, in England.

Mrs. Burke often let her imagination run away
with her. As she talked on, it ran the faster, and the
stronger the effect it produced.

Sentiment had nothing whatever to do with Myra
plans. She would like to be a fine lady if she
could. Once over there, she thought the way to this

iine-ladyism would come of itself. She knew that
Harry was not a fine gentleman well enough ; but still,
she took him to be a step to her own elevation. Beyond
this, she had a burning stock of ungratified curiosity.
As to any yearning of affection towards her mother's
kinsfolk and country, she had not a shadow of it. Her
father was dearer to her than her mother; — at least,
she loved him with a tenderer love ; and, what was
more, she took from him and his blood, the qualities of
her mind, — signally that quality, which combines love
of country, and readiness to leave it.

Matters in the little household of the Lough Beg
Lodge were precisely in this position when Lorraine
one day fulfilled Mr. Burke's prophecy, and, in the
character of the new Sir Claude, rode through the
unbarred gates, and accepted from Myrtilla his grandfather's
badge, — the myrtle sprig, giving her, in return,
that which he could not take back again.

CHAPTER IV.

THE Herdsman.

But Tunica alone loved not a herdsman."

The southernmost half of Loughmore was a land of
many waters, — waters of all varieties : — lakes, gloomy
and gay, black and green; — rills and streams and
falls ; — everywhere the wild element was to be seen,
reflecting the heaven above it, sleeping lazily among
reeds and rushes, or dancing and dashing about, breaking
up the earth with its silvery lines and curves, and
giving to it, under the sun, a never-ending and ever-changing
glory.

But Lough Beg lay high, and far outside this

watery maze, though united to it in fact ; but the

stream that formed the connecting link had a long way
to travel, — first round the base of a great conical hill,
that blocked the head of the lake, and then by many
a mile of pleasant upland, before it encountered the
serious torrent which bore it off breathlessly, and without
reprieve, to a joint death in the black depths of
the great mere beyond.

There were no waters on the estate which were

better for the white trout fishing than this stream
which flowed out of the head of Lough Beg : — it was
one of the boasts of the spot — and one of its prime-pleasures
; — and when tired of this, there was the quaint
conical mound for a more active sport. Its smooth-shaven
form, which looked as if it had been thrown up
from a mould, invited you to a slide down, — and halfway
to its peaked summit, if you raised your voice, you
could wake the echoes in a hundred glens, — wake them
for so long — and with such a strange recurrence, that
it was hard to believe that it was you only who first
set them going.

Another pride of Lough Beg was its clump of old
beeches — rare survivors of the timber of past days ; —
these, together with a rich growth of thorn and wild
ash, made an impervious shelter for the lodge to the
north, and gave to the scene that woodland beauty
which was the only charm lacking to the perfection of
these broad landscapes.

No wonder, with its bright interior and its pleasant
surroundings, that Lorraine, with his love for such
simple matters, found plenty of occasion to visit Lough
Beg Lodge, — besides the natural kindliness that led
him to look in upon the good nurse, — and to listen
awhile again, to the garrulous memories of Mr. Burke.

A change of clothes in case of a wetting, fishing-tackle,
and other matters, speedily found their way
thither ; and Lorraine soon discovered the necessity of
fitting up for himself a small room which had been

used for the same purpose by his grandfather, and
which Mr. Burke had turned to his own uses as a
potato-house, tool-house, and cow-house.

A boat, too, was soon seen to grace the waters of
the lake, — a little pinnace, with a mast and a sail, and
a small punt to land in the shallows ; and Harry English,
whose Kentish home bordered upon the Channel
shores, and who had almost as much of mariner as of
herdsman in him, was appointed chief mate.

Lorraine himself pretended to the post of captain.
It is a not uncommon arrangement in nautical government,
where the responsible action rests with the second
in command. — There remained only the name to provide
for. Well, the fair daughter of the Lodge furnished
this. The Myrtilla. What could be prettier ?

And Myrtilla herself, — what was she doing all this

time ? She could not have told you, perhaps : and

yet, it was an absorbing pursuit, — nothing less than
the perilous process of multiplying the effects of
Lorraine's first look of amazed admiration, by that
mathematical term, which represents things unlimited.

As for the look itself, it stood alone. There was no
need of a second to stimulate the power of the first ;
but if there had been, it did not appear.

Lorraine was pleased, and friendly all round. He
took his seat in an armchair, and lit his cigar, with his
thoughts upon anything or nothing, and his eyes following
also these two useful parts of speech.

When nurse and old Burke had struggled to

their feet at the first acquaintance, Lorraine had said
cheerily —

Ashen you come to see me, you can stand up, if
you think it proper. When I come to see you, we'll all
sit down and be comfortable."

The Lord bless him ! " murmurs Mr. Burke ; " and
isn't he the vera mirror of his grandfather — the vera
mirror ? "

Lorraine took plenty of notice indeed of his pretty
foster sister, as he called Myrtilla ; but it was after the
fashion of a grown man encouraging a growing girl.
He commended her stature and her strength ; he called
her his helle hateliere — a word, happily, she could not
construe — when she took an oar with Harry across the
lake. He turned over the books upon her little stand ;
they consisted of a thumbed breviary, a small print
copy of the "Irish Melodies," a volume of saintly lives, a
still smaller print copy of Irish songs in Gaelic, and an
extremely old volume, with the date of 1619, printed
in English and Irish, containing a singular essay upon
the miracles wrought somewhere in the sacred isle, by
the relics of St. Francis Xavier. Evidently the true
Church had had the selection of Myrtilla's library, and
Mrs. Burke, considering how she was situated, did wisely
in putting her Protestantism in her pocket.

With a smile, Lorraine put aside one volume after
another, and patted the girl on the shoulder, and said,
he was not much of a reader himself ; but if she liked

the amusement, there was better than this to be had ;
and that when he went to Dublin — which he must do
one of these days — then he would bring her back a lot
of new reading, — she might make sure of that."

It was all "sat an' aise thither," as Barney the
ostler might have said. " Sat an' aise " — for every one
but Myrtilla, who went on steadily sowing the wind ; —
the season for the reaping of the whirlwind had not yet
arrived.

So matters advanced, Lorraine finding nothing
that he could not very well endure in his life at
Loughmore.

Some duties he had to perform, some calls to attend
to, some slight acquaintanceships to keep up. But the
claims upon him were very impersonal ; it was other
people's interests, and other people's lives that he had
to be troubled about ; and as long as he was not
dragged with personal complications or implications
into such affairs, he was as little impatient of them as
his neighbours.

The winter was wearing away apace ; but here,
where no frost is felt, and no snow lies lower than the
mountain-tops, it is not worth while, according to
northern notions, to speak of the season as — winter !
Sometimes it is a pure summer's day — and sometimes
an Atlantic hurricane. Lorraine takes both in friendly
part. He takes the whole life at Loughmore in friendly

part ! — it is indeed the life of all others, just now,
most congenial to bis feelings — most able to wean
bim from the heart regrets, the jarring crisis wbicb,
after a calm of five and twenty years, be bad bad suddenly
to face, one after another: — and, as be always
said, none of bis own seeking ! — be stuck to that.

He is not a person to fight against the impossible,
or to refuse, after the first shock, to accept the irrevocable.
He chafes away at small things ; but he is not
the one to break up bis life for great ones ; — and he
has not broken up his life. Still, whilst there is the
shadow of an association to carry him back, these cruel
memories — all these memories, so cruel, so tender, so
irritating, will come up, and come up ! It is only
under the sky of his far-distant Loughmore that they
begin really to dissipate — not into thin air, but into
Time's softening distances.

It is true that be may be wrecked again in the
society that he has to mix with. There is no safe
guarantee for him as he enters bis neighbour's 
against bis encountering bis fate again under
some pale, queenly brow, or some pair of bew itching,
velvety eyes. But Fate is merciful.

As be remarked to himself after his first small
round of visits —

The young and the single seem improved away
out of these people. What a blessing it would be if
all the world could be married and middle-aged!
They'd be rather dull, but they'd lead up to nothing."

It was all very safe and true, as far as the visits
were concerned. But there was always My rt ilia to
represent youth and possibilities at the Lough Beg-lodge.


But these possibilities were as far from Lorraine's
mind as the poles ; further, in fact, since they had no
place at all in it.

What he had in his mind was a genuine desire to
please the young girl, and a very cordial sympathy
with her matrimonial prospects. Harry he took
to be a capital fellow; and he was only sorry that
the pair were not to settle down and marry on the
estate. He was full of kind deeds to both of them,
especially to Myrtilla; and as the months wore on,
the little book-shelf in the corner became gaudy with
brand-new covers, from Dublin book-shops. And when
a forced visit to London about regimental affairs took
him over the Channel, the result of it to Myrtilla, was
a chain of gold for the wedding-day.

The girl took it all, and said nothing. But she
began to say less than nothing to Harry English.

Mother," said that youth to Mrs. Burke — it was
the word he had begun long to call her by — " Mother,
what's the matter with Myrtilla? She won't speak tome
and she won't look at me. She passes by me as if
I was the leg of the table."

Mrs. Burke, when the night was quiet, and the
others were in bed, took Myrtilla to her knees again.

Sit down here, my child," said she, " and tell me
what's amiss."

But My rt ilia, as yet, was only sowing the wind.

Why d'ye ask, mither ? " says she. " And what's
Harry English after throublin' ye about ? "

So Myrtilla put off the whirlwind.

It was now full spring again ! How green and
fresh, and what sweet odours everywhere ! And what
nosegays of violets and sweet asphodels, and bright
May gowans, filled with their dainty spring perfumes
the Lough Beg Lodge !

Lorraine had been visiting first one and then
another of his middle-aged married friends, — paying
visits of some length. He had presided at some spring
races ; the sport was good ; he enjoyed it excessively.
In fact. Lough Beg Lodge had seen very little of him
of late.

But one day he went down there betimes. The wind
was westerly and a little gusty, but delicious in its
soft motion, — it stirred his hair as he walked along,
and gave him that sensation of quiet exultation which
such a day in spring, — where spring is really spring, —
has the power of exciting.

At the door stood Harry English, leaning against
the post, with the door itself half closed, as usual.

The young man's accustomed brightness was so
shaded that even Lorraine, not prone to observe,
stopped and made a remark upon it.

VOL. III. E

Why, Any," he said, " what's this ? "

Harry does not pretend to deny that he understands
what the " this " was.

I am thinking," says he, " of returning to England."


We must prepare for the wedding, then," rejoins
Lorraine, briskly.

Harry gives him a singular look — lost, however,
upon Lorraine, and then turns away with a very
audible sigh.

But Lorraine calls after him. " Stop, Harry ! " he
cries. " I came down to have a sail. There's just the
wind for it. If you'll get out the pinnace, I'll be
down directly ; and Myrtilla shall steer for us. I feel
too lazy to-day to do anything much ; " — and so
Lorraine goes into the lodge.

Mr. Burke is asleep ; — it is a weakness which often
overcomes him now. Mrs. Burke is in the inner room,
attending to her household affairs. Myrtilla is standing
in the middle of the floor, with an attitude of
arrested attention. She had been listening, perhaps, for
Harry's explanation in reply to the question, " What's
this ? " which a moment ago she had heard put to him.

As Lorraine entered, she sprang forward, going outby
the door. In a moment, she is in again, holding in
her hand a myrtle spray, with the tender green buds
opening down the stem. She offers it to him.

He wanted to pick it," says she, pointing in the
direction of Harry.

And why not ? " says Lorraine, taking it leisurely,
and sticking it in his button-hole.

And why not ! " cries the girl, with eyes all afire.
Why not ! When it was for the master that I have
been watching' it all these days ! "

Lorraine raises his head from arranging the myrtle,
and looks full at Myrtilla.

It was not in mortal man to see those dilating
grey eyes, that face and figure expanding to all the
passions at once, without becoming sensible of the
magnificence of the beauty of it.

Why, Myrtilla," he cries. " Why, has your tarry
godmother come down here since I've been away?
What has come to you, child, that you are grown so
tall, and so ? "

So handsome," Lorraine is on the point of adding.

But Myrtilla is on her knees at his feet ; his hand
is pressed to her trembling lips, and an —

Ah ! thin, let me die for ye this minnie ! " breaks
from her heart.

To this scene enters Harry English. He says
that in his opinion there is too much wind for the
pinnace.

An' what do ye, Harry English, know about the
lough, I'll like to know?" cries Myrtilla, starting to
her feet, and facing him with the glare of a young
tigress.

Harry falls back before the attack.

An' if the master w ill go, an' won't I be manasrinir

the pinnace my own self for him ? " continues the
attacking party.

Lorraine has slightly followed Harry's example.
His hand again free, he retreats a step. Absolutely his
head is a little giddy with the suddenness, both of the
overture and the after-piece ; but he comes quickly to
his equilibrium again.

"Some lovers' quarrel," thinks he. And so he
sums it up ; his part in the drama he passes over.

Harry and Myrtilla are still standing at bay.

We'll try it, anyhow, Harry," says Lorraine.

And so the three go out together.

The wind certainly at this moment did not justify
Harry's opinion. It had sunk well-nigh to a calm ;
but the sun had gone behind a black cloud.

We shall be having a squall," says Harry, still on
the side of evil prognostic.

An' what thin ? Are ye afraid o' drowning' this
day ? " says Myrtilla, looking back at him.

Harry's face wears the expression of a man sad and
sorry ; there is very little look of fear in it, except of
Myrtilla's bitter tongue.

The trio are soon afloat — Harry at the oars, Myrtilla
at her post of steersman, Lorraine looking on.

But, like the wind, they seem all becalmed. The
flame of Myrtilla's passion is burnt out. Harry's
smiles are not re-lit. Lorraine's cheery words hang fire.

Slowly they cleave the still water in the direction
of the Great Mound at the head of the lake.

As they round the jutting point of it, the wind,
without a note of warning, rises with a great swirl.

Lorraine's eyes are half closed to the scene ; — it is
possible that the silent lull of this watery motion has
sent him into one of his old siesta. But he rouses to
the freshening of the wind, and then he speaks.

Put up the sail, Harry ; we shall get along a little
now." Still, he scarce opens his eyes.

Harry shakes his head more ominously than ever.

Myrtilla's eye is upon him. — With a look of killing
scorn, she throws round the rudder, and, with her arms
so white and so strong, " raises the mast as if it had
been a reed, drops it in its rest, and begins to haul up
the sail.

St02^, 3Iyrtilla ! " cries Lorraine. " What are you
about ? Where's Harry ? "

The pinnace was small, and the full figure of
Myrtilla hid from Lorraine's awakening eyes the recalcitrant
body of Harry in the background.

But it so chanced or it was so predetermined that
no opportunity was given for a deliberate reply to
Lorraine's startled inquiry. In fact, before shock
number one was over, — shock number two set in. The
rudder was loose, and the sail was loose, and the wind,
equally unstable, took another sudden shift with a
double violence, and sent the little craft over by the
beam, — sending also these two unprepared ones,
Lorraine and Myrtilla, over with it.

Harry, his eyes calmly about him, has time to seize

III. -r-

the rudder, and wretches it round with the vice of a
giant. He knows what he is about full well. Nor does
he rely upon the powers of the pinnace in vain. The
obedient creature, like a thing of life, answers to the
appeal ; and on the very verge of its catastrophe, rights
itself for all safety.

But safety is not the word at this moment for these
two in the water. All that Harry can do for them is
to steady the pinnace. For one desperate moment he
loses sight of both ; but with the next they come up
again. Myrtilla's head scarcely clears the keel of the
pinnace. Aghast at the peril, Harry flings himself
half out of the boat, and, seizing her as best he can,,
drags her up to him ; — but with a shriek, she breaks
from him.

Where is he ? " she cries, and, throwing up her
arms, plunges back into the water.

Lorraine by this time has got into a serviceable
condition.

The best of his Eton accomplishments was his
swimming, and he had never lost it.

It was with no faint confidence in his powers, that
in days gone by he proposed that swim for rescue, to
Lady Laure.

A yard or two ahead of him he perceives Myrtilla
borne up by her full skirts, yet near to sinking. It is
the work of a moment to put one arm round her, and
to strike out with the other.

Myrtilla — petticoats and all — is no slight weight to

bear alone in this swelling: water. And she is restive.
Possibly she has an idea that his life is risked to save
hers.

But in this matter at least, Lorraine soon brings
her to order. There is no mistaking the sternness of
his command.

Be still, Myrtilla, or you'll have the pleasure of
dying — not for me, but with me ! "

Probably other people would have . worded it
differently. But this was Lorraine's way of speaking
for Life and Death.

It all came to a good ending as far as lives were
concerned ; a shallow estuary was close at hand, and it
took no very long effort for Lorraine to put himself
and Myrtilla barely knee-deep in water, — and after that
they waded to land singly.

Harry, with a beating heart and strong oar-strokes,
followed them with the pinnace ; and pushing in, takes
them on board it again.

Then he makes an attempt to turn the sail to the
safer use of wrapping it round the dripping Myrtilla.

The water seems to have had the unusual effect of
rekindling her flames. She pushes away the forgiving
hand, and applies herself to Lorraine's drenching coattails.


Let it alone, Myrtilla," says he, laughing. " We
must be wrung out — entirely, as you say here, before
we're dry again. No doubt, we present a pretty picture ;
but there's only Harry here to laugh at us ; and we're

better off anyhow than if we were playing the parts of
merman and mermaid at the bottom of the lake."

Harry's face has not the shadow of a laugh upon it.
He sees nothing even hopeful in the situation ; but he
devotes himself with all his nautical skill to prevent
further mischance.

The wind was still skittish, but their upsetting
were over for the day.

In spite of Myrtilla's unceremonious objurgations,
Harry proved himself to know a good deal about the
practical navigation of Lough Beg.

Now and then he looked askance at the wet skins
of his freight, but it couldn't be helped. Slow and
sure must be the order now, and so, with the oars only,
and skirting far round under the lee of the banks,
Harry lands them at last pretty well dry — to the eye, at
least — at the stage behind the lodge.

CHAPTER V.

DEEDS, NOT WORDS.

Oh, soft, brown eyes ! Oh, glances turned away !
Oh, burning sighs, and tears so often shed, —
Dark nights in vain awaited, — vainly fled !
And oh, the vain returns of shining day !

Oh, sad complaint ! Oh, longings nought can stay !
Oh, useless toils ! Oh, time all vainly sped !
Oh, thousand deaths, in thousand nets outspread !
Oh, still worse woes, for me, their destined prey !

Oh, hand, arm, fingers, — laughter, forehead, hair !
Oh, voice and plaintive lute and viol rare !
So many flames one woman's heart to burn !

I blame you of so many fires possest, — •
Which from so many sources scorch my breast,
That not one spark upon yourself you turn.

From the French of Louise Lab.

Let us suppose Lorraine departed, and the inmates of
the lodge settling down for the evening, after the
agitation of this eventful day.

Myrtilla is crouched between her father and the
hearth, — with dry garments, and a smoking glass of
the national beverage in her hand.

Let it be Patrick Flanagan's potheen, mither,"
directs Mr. Burke, addressing his wife, when she prepares

to make the brew. " Ye'll find it 'neatly the bed,
whale pit it this martin'. It's no sic murders Tim
Phelim's pisan, — it's just as sat as silk, an' as yellow
as crew, — mak' it het an' Strong an' state, fur the
jewel," says he, touching the glowing cheek lovingly.

Then the old man subsides again into the tears
that had been flowing more or less ever since he got
knowledge of the matter.

"Me darling," sobs he; "an' ye had never kim
up again, — what wud the pore father lev bin after
coin' without ye ? "

Harry sits at the side of Mrs. Burke ; his cheek
is not glowing, — for him it is almost pale ; and the
young man has a look of quite unusual care and
thought.

"Now it's your turn, Harry," says Mrs. Burke,
holding up the remainder of the potheen she has
drawn out of the keg.

But Harry shakes his head. He declines the
private whisky. He is in no mood for its inspiring
charms.

Mr. Burke makes a sign to his wife to pass the
horn over to him. As he sips and sips, he drops the
lachrymose for the cogitative.

I'll never know the rights o' it," says he, with his
eyes on the silken cream. " The wind was no sae vera
high this day ! "

It was poor Myrtilla's fault," says Harry, all
innocently speaking the truth.

An' it was pore Myrtilla's fault ! " cries the girl,
firing np again. " An' it wasn't the pore Harry's fault
that we serena drowned entirely, the twa iv us ! — was
it ? And the blessed master in the water, and Harry
English setting as dry as a duck in the boat all the
time, —-the pore pittiogue ! "

Pore pittiogue ! " That is an untranslateable expression.
It is neither cursing nor swearing, — Myrtilla
was not given to these accomplishments ; and when she
pleased, she could speak fair English ; but when she
raged or rejoiced, she was apt to relapse into her
mother tongue.

Pittiogue ! — Well, the nearest approach to it maybe
taken to be " pitiful fellow ; " but that is not it
either, — it combines every possible contemptible
quality, that is not exactly vicious.

Harry had not taken many lessons in Irish, — he
saw no need for it. He meant that his Myrtilla should
speak English with him, when they were man and
wife. Still, the scorn in the voice and eye gave him
a pretty clear interpretation of the meaning of this
word which was applied to himself, and had just then
fallen from the lips of his betrothed.

He made no reply, — though upon this word turned
the whole fate and future of every soul present.

Half an hour afterwards, Harry English got up
and loft the lodge.

Myrtilla," cries Mrs. Burke, " why did you call
our Harry a pittiogue ? And didn't Sir Claude say that
he behaved like a man through it all ? "

Then Myrtilla got up, and, kneeling down by her
mother, she hid her face in her knees, and sobbed as
if her heart wouhl break.

Mither, mither," she murmurs, " I'll never marry
Harry English ; I'll never marry him ! "

Myrtilla was a good girl, in spite of all. She was
full of duty to her mother, and of tender devotion to
her father, making his age and his weakness as light
^a trial to him as she could.

She never wandered from home or spent the day
lazily. It Alas she who kept things bright and spruce
within the lodge ; and who was up the first, and to bed
the last; she was less friendly than she might have
been with the lads and lasses about ; she held her
head a little high ; — it was laid down to English pride,
bred in her by her mother.

It was one reason — the only one, perhaps — that
Harry English started with no rivals in the field.

Mrs. Burke went to her slumbers this night sorely
perplexed as to what course to pursue. She loved
Myrtilla too well to make her unhappy ; but yet, to
see at one stroke all her prospering plans vanish and
pass out of reach, — distressed her bitterly.

Harry, too, poor fellow, after all this time, what
should she do with him ?

There never was a truer love than Harry's for
Myrtilla ! " cries she. And so she leaves it.

Lorraine had taken greatly to Harry English. This
honest manliness, and these simple yet not boorish
manners were entirely congenial to him. Allowing for
the difference of rank, and some other differences,
Harry was a reflex of himself. If you had seen them
walking along together, — as far as the physique went,
and at a passing glance, you would not have found
much to choose between them. Upon closer intimacy,
indeed, you would have discovered in Lorraine a grace
a nameless yet most expressive grace, which the other
lacked, but still, the common verdict would have been
that they were a couple of very fine young men.

As a consequence of this kind of rapport, Harry's
appointment to the post of chief mate of the Myrtilla
did not stop there. He was as much at the Castle as
at the lodge, — always the one applied to in any small
need of the master ; in fact, he became a sort of henchman.
If Lorraine had gone in for valets, no doubt
he would have been the valet, — but this anomalous
appendage was quite outside his notions of personal
comfort.

Lorraine was out betimes on the morning after the
lake disaster, and none the worse for the " trifling'
wetting'' which, as it had had no ill consequences, was
treated something as a joke by his faithful followers
below stairs.

Outside the Castle, he came across Harry English, —
still pale, with his hair somewhat unbrushed, his erect
air gone, and a disordered look ; in fact, he had not even
made an attempt to sleep all this night, — and Harry's
first experience of not sleeping had a very serious
effect upon his outer man.

I have been waiting to speak to you, sir," says
Harry.

"All right, Harry," returns Lorraine. "But how
done up you look ! And yet you didn't get into the
water as we did yesterday ! "

No, Sir Claude ; and therefore I am a pittiogue."

A what ? " says Lorraine, staring at him full in
the face.

"A pittiogue," replies Harry. "And that is the
reason that I shall be glad to speak to you."

Of course, Harry ; but certainly you've taken
leave of your senses."

As Lorraine said this, he looked more closely into
the young man's face.

Now, Lorraine's readiest solution to anything
peculiar in his fellow-creatures was mental craze. As
long as people kept their senses, he could not conceive
their conducting themselves in an out-of-the-way
manner ; and looking at this moment closely into
Harry's face, and listening to the strange jargon he
has got in his head, Lorraine thinks to himself,
Here's another of them going mad ! There's no safety
for any one ! "

"Well," says lie aloud, awaiting what more of
Harry's eccentricities were to come out.

I am going home," says Harry.

Ah ! " replies Lorraine, " I wonder how Myrtilla
is this morning. I was just going to see about her;
but, as you're going down, you can do it as well."

"My home is not there," returns Harry, with a
stolid air. " My home is in England, and I am going
there."

"Well then," rejoins Lorraine, still obtuse, yet
truly not wilfully so — it is his nature never to be
digging for motives — "AVell then," cries he, briskly,
we must look sharp about the marriage, as I said the
other day. But I shall be sorry to lose you, Harry —
to lose you both. Can't you think better of it, and
settle down at Loughmore? I'll make it worth your
while, Harry."

There is persuasion in every syllable of Lorraine's
words.

Harry's face wears a smile of a very unusual kind.
Neither here nor there, Sir Claude. I am going
to England alone; and never, please God, to return
here, at any rate."

Harry fires up with his last utterance.

Harry ! " exclaims Lorraine, stopping still in the
path.

They had been walking leisurely forward till now.

Harry draws himself up to his full height. When
he stands as he does now, he tops Lorraine by an inch.

Sir Claude," says he, " I'm nothing but a Kentish
herdsman. I am quite well aware, sir, what I am."
Harry gives something of a gulp. "And I can only
speak in plain words. Sir Claude; and so here's the
truth — Myrtilla is not in love with me ; and she is in
love with you."

Harry ! " cries Lorraine for the second time, and
with a good deal more vehemence.

You look as if you didn't know it, sir ; and I've
no reason to doubt that you're a true gentleman. But
it's plain enough to my eyes, and I should have
thought to yours."

Lorraine grasps the Kentish herdsman's hand.

Harry, I swear to you "

Don't swear about it, sir," says Harry, sadly.

But Lorraine takes no heed to that.

I swear to you," he cries, " that neither by word
nor deed have I injured you with Myrtilla ! Neither
by word nor deed," he repeats.

You can't help your looks, sir," says Harry, still
more sadly this time.

My looks ! " returns Lorraine. " What folly all
this is ! Lift up your head, my dear fellow. Your
looks are a match for mine any day."

Harry shakes his head. It is a way he has — a way
with many people who are poor in words.

Listen to me," says Lorraine. " The thing can
be put into a nutshell. Here's Myrtilla. Lie is an
Irish girl. You've not been here long enough to know

the race. It's as proud as Lucifer. Well, you two
quarrel. She won't give in. Her temper is tremendous
; her tongue, no doubt, the same. She gives
vent to a hundred things, — merely the outburst of her
passion, and, I suppose, calls you by that name — whatever
it was ; " and he stops.

A pittiogue," says Harry.

Ha ! Well, pittiogue. Have you an idea of its
meaning ? " asks Lorraine.

No, sir," says Harry, briefly.

Well," returns Lorraine, cheerfully, " for aught
you or I know, it may be a very complimentary term."

It don't sound like it," says Harry, gloomily.

Harry was right. It didn't sound like it. In
these ancient forms of speech, savage or classic, sound
and sense are wonderfully together.

"Now, Harry," begins Lorraine, taking up again
the consolatory strain, " leave the matter in my hands.
I'll speak to Myrtilla myself; and I suppose if she's
willing, you won't hold back from the bargain."

Harry shakes his head again. As he felt yesterday,
so he does now ; he sees nothing hopeful in the
situation.

But Lorraine walks away from him in the full confidence
of his persuasive powers and his diplomatic
skill in the matter of bringing two true lovers together
again.

But first, for a moment he goes back into the
Castle. He has just the very convenient sum of money

VOL. III. F

in hand to-day upon which he much reckons as a
supplementary argument with the fair Myrtilla. As he
remarked to himself, "None of these people are indifferent
to money."

Thus armed, and armed also with the most honest
good intentions, Lorraine takes the road to the lodge.
But he has not walked half a mile before he meets
Myrtilla herself.

There is nothing downcast here. She comes joyously
forward to meet him ; her face is radiant with its
fresh beauty, and as she steps along, it is with the
spring of an unclouded spirit.

Lorraine is a bad hand at opening a subject. He
takes the girl's hand and turns her back with him.
Then he lets it go, — and, looking at her, says with a
laugh —

Well, my little mermaid, are you ready for some
more fishing to-day ? "

Myrtilla is quite ready. She springs on before him.

Lorraine calls her back.

"I'm after finding' Harry English for the boat,
yer honour," cries Myrtilla, scarcely slackening her
speed.

Stop," says Lorraine, again. " You'll not find him
that way."

Myrtilla does stop, and looks straight at Lorraine.
Her eyes are full of last night's wrath again.

The pittiogue ! " she cries. " And what's he out
o' the way now foi: ? "

Who are you calling by this name ? " says Lorraine.
" What do you mean by it ? "

And he takes his stern look, which makes her
flinch.

Oh, an' wud I be after sin' iv it to yer honour,
when I wud die for ye, if it pleased the Lord to let
me ! "

Nonsense ! " says Lorraine. "Don't let us have that
again ! It brought you no good yesterday, did it ? "

He has an idea that he might appeal to the superstitious
side of her nature.

No good ! " cries Myrtilla. " And was no that the
states day to me of all my life before and after ? "

There have not been so many days since ; but
Myrtilla must be pardoned for this national imagery.

Let it all alone now, and listen to what I have
got to say."

Then Lorraine takes out a small pocket-book.

Look here, Myrtilla," he says ; " here's a hundred
pounds. I give it to you for your own. It will furnish
up your rooms nearly when you get to England, and the
best thing to be done now is, that you and Harry
should make a match of it at once."

He hands her the pocket-book, and she takes it —
without hesitation, and with complete deliberation,
holding it in her hands. She fixes her eyes on the
ground, and so stands, perhaps for a minute or two. To
Lorraine naturally it appeared many minutes.

Well, Myrtilla," he says at last.

Not even then did lie lift her head and eyes

when she does, wrath and joy are both gone. She
is a shade paler, perhaps ; her eyes are cold and
clear. Something seems to quiver round her mouth,
but yet she speaks with wonderful composure and
self-control.

You wish it ? " she says.

I wish it," replies Lorraine, " and with all my
heart, My rtilla!"

She stands with her eyes chained to his face.

With all my heart," repeats Lorraine.

With all yer heart," echoes Myrtilla.

And then she turns back the way she had been
coming. But again she comes to a stop, and he, still
standing looking after her, calls her by her name.

Obedient to his voice, she looks round, — and, with
the natural action of untutored passion, she raises one
of her white arms to heaven.

And when I'm gone," she cries, " if I never see ye
again, Sir Claude — if I never see ye again — the Lord
above be wit us both."

And then she turns and goes.

Lorraine turns too. He walks with slow steps and
a thoughtful face, revolving in his mind Myrtilla and
her fortunes.

Lorraine is given to summing things up in his
mind. He is rarely without a decided conclusion.
This was what he said now to himself —

Harry may be right. The girl is full of all sorts of

wild passion, — that's clear ; and she'd as soon slay you
as love you, I suspect. But she has taken the money,
and that clenches the affair, as I expected it would ! "

And then he quickens his pace ; but again he relaxes
it ; he even looks back, as if he might expect to see the
subject of his thoughts coming running towards him.
He can at this moment recall her perfectly to his
mind; her glowing cheeks, her eyes in their grey
splendour. He can see the half-haughty, half-tender
quiver of her perfect features ; and he sees the very
swing and spring with which she bears her bold, supple
figure on to meet him.

His gaze is still fixed upon the vacant distance.
There is something grand about that girl," says he,
half aloud ; " and if she's got a temper, Harry will anyhow
have the handsomest wife in Kent. I'd lay a
wager to it ! "

Lorraine was at fault if he expected Myrtilla to fill
again that vacant distance. Not even once did she
slacken or stop till she reached the door of the lodge.
It stood, as always, half ajar. Here she laid one hand
upon her breast, — as if to gather up her spent breath.
And yet she was not breathless. It might have been to
gather up her strength for her resolve. She goes at last
in quickly ; and Mr. Burke, who is dozing as usual,
awakes with a start.

Poor father ! " says the girl. "Did I wake you ? "
"And isn't it a glad wakening' from ye, me darling?"

says the old man. "Ye let me sleep too much all
day."

It's gnd to sleep, father," says Myrtilla ; " then weare
no thinking."

"No thinking', jewel ! Ye don't be after thinking'
too much wit yer bonny face. It's alone for ane ould
sick crater as yer father to be after thinking," . says the
old man, sadly.

"Yes, father, yer right," is the answer, and then
she comes tenderly up to him, turning the subject.
"Ye have no had yer parritch broth this morning',
father."

The mither is gave to the town," says he, " and
ye have been takin' the air, and it's just what ye shuld
do, acushla."

"It's just what I should no do when yer wanting'
the pritchard

then Myrtilla sets to work to stir in the meal,
and boil the mess.

It is gut, father. But wait," she cries, " where's
the bit o' butter ? "

The bit of butter is added, and the old man at last
well engaged with his breakfast.

Myrtilla slips away, and in less than a quarter of an
hour she is back again. She has changed her dress.
This one has a plain black stuff skirt, full and pleated ;
and a dark jacket that covers up her white arms ; and
upon her head is a little scarlet hood, which is almost
too simple a coiffure to become her proud face.

Moreover, she has a little bundle in her hand, and,
as she passes the book-case, she stops to look, and
taking one of the brightest-covered volumes out of it,
she slips it into the bundle. Then she goes up to the
old man's side; she pushes his grey hair apart, and
kisses his wrinkled brow.

The mither 'ill soon be back now," says she ;
but you'll hae the time to tak' another nap, father ;
and ye'll tell the mither, when she'll be coming' hame,
that Myrtilla is gave aff to see Honor Marat and
her famille; for it's tomorrow that they'll all be
down to Cork for America."

And ye'll be back this night ? " says the old man,
still supping his porridge.

No, father, I'll no be back this night. 'Tis lang
way there and back; 'tis a lang — lang way," says
Myrtilla, saying the words with a slow and low utterance.


Give me your blessing', my father," says she, and
she kneels down at his side and takes the porridge
basin from him.

And won't I bless thee, me darling ? " cries the old
man. " I'd be blessing' ye day an' night if I had me
own gait. But it's no much worth, the blessing' iv an
ould sinner like yer pore father. It's the Man above
that must bless ye, an' may the blessing' of this same
Man rest upon ye, an' may the merciful Queen o' heaven
look down on ye, me heart's darling ! "

The old man has exhausted himself with his unwonted

energy. He leans back, and closes his eyes, his
trembling hand still upon his daughter's head.

Take the parritch now, father ; " and Myrtilla rises
from her knees, and gives him back the bowl.

But the old man gently puts it back. " Not awhile,
darling. I'll just sleep a bit again, I'm thinking."

And the mither 'ill soon be back, father."

And with this last word, Myrtilla goes away with
her bundle. She does not stop on the threshold, nor
falter, nor weep. She goes away calmly and quickly.

Mrs. Burke was soon back, as Myrtilla had said, and
her husband rouses up again as she comes in at the door.

And where is Harry ? " asks she ; " and Myrtilla,
father, — where is she ? "

Mr. Burke has a puzzled air. "I was to tell ye
summit," says he.

Has Sir Claude been down, then ? "

Nae, nae ; 'twas from the darling. Ah ! now, it's
to me mind. She's gave over to Honor Marat;
they'll be off to Cork tomorrow fur America."

"It's a long way," says Mrs. Burke; "and she'll
never be back to-night."

Nor tomorrow.

It was about the upsetting on the day after this
one that Mrs. Burke, standing in the doorway watching
for Myrtilla's return, sees Barney of the Loughmore
Arms limping in through the gate.

He has anything but a cheerful countenance.

It may have been later troubles, and it may have
been that injury to his feelings, done by the audacious
Tim Phelim on a well-remembered occasion.

As he comes up to Mrs. Burke, he hands her a
letter.

It's an hour and mair that I hae 'ud been here,
bit fur this limb o' mine," says he ; " bit it ud a' bin
all the same. They're aff all thither this lang gave."

The speech is dark to Mrs. Burke ; but the letter
throws light upon it.

It is from Myrtilla; it begins —

"Dear Mother,"

(There had been "dear father" after the "dear
mother," but the " dear father " is crossed out.)

"You'll be after wondering' no to see me
hame, but I've something' to tell ye, and this letter will
spake to ye fur me. As I would ye, it's no marrying'
Harry English that I can ; and it's no staying at the
Lodge fur me any more, and sae I've just gone wit
Honor to America. Ye have no need to groan into
any particulars to the pore father ; he's no so sharp ashe
wer', and ye can just pit him aff wi' ane o' yer tales.
Tak' care o' yersel', mither; I'll be after seen' ye
again ane o' these days ; but the father, never again. An'
down go to frit about me, fur I'm just groan off to see
what's going' on, away fran the Lodge.

Yer loving' daughter,

"Myrtilla Burke."

Nothing could be more prosaic.

Except the one touch about the father, there is not
one regret.

If Myrtilla had her feelings, she hid them, and did
not work upon the feelings of other people.

Chapter YI.

THE SEA ! THE SEA !

Lovers twain on a summer's day ;

And this the burden of what they say,—

All for love ! come what, come may.

Parting in tears on a summer's day,
Breaking their hearts in the regular way,
^r|^j^ a— Never forget ! come what, come may.

East and West on a summer's day,—

Some to work and some to play,

With a— Fate to follow ! come what, come may.

Times are hard on a summer's day,

Knocking about and the devil to pay,

With a— Fight for your hand ! come what, come may.

Smiles suit best on a summer's day ;

Life goes well, if hearts are gay,

With a— Never say die! come what, come may.

Lovers twain on a summer's day ;

And this the burden of what they say,—

Better late than never ! come what, come may.

It would take more time that can be spared to write
the history of the next few days, both at the Castle and
the Lodge.

Much that is sad and piteous might be set down,

the father's misty misery, Harry's crushed heart,
Lorraine's unpleasant enlightenment.

As for Burke, his eyes soon closed altogether on
the scene. No one told him his child was gone, — he
was put off, as she had said, with one tale after another.
But he was restless, — he missed her, — and when she
did not return, he cried out in the confusion of his distress,
that they had drowned her! And so he died.
The loss did not kill him, but it helped Death's hand,
which was already upon him.

As for Mrs. Burke, this blow takes all the pride out
of her life. Even the charm of " Master Claude " is
gone. She says, she will go back and live amongst her
own people.

I shall feel it less. Sir Claude," sighs she, " if I
am with them." There is no violence in her grief;
she has always been a quiet woman, both in her good
fortune and her bad. When her first trouble fell upon
her, her tears fell fast, — but she had hope ; now she
sheds few tears, — and has no hope.

"But Myrtilla will return to you, nurse," cries
Lorraine.

I think not," says she.

But it is for young Harry, perhaps, that Lorraine
feels the most sympathy.

Come, Harry, cheer up," says he. "There's always
a home here, and if you'll throw in your chance with
mine, where I am, there'll always be room for you."

But Harry is silent.

"You'll wish to take nurse over, no doubt," says
Lorraine again.

Harry is still silent.

Tell me what is your mind," says Lorraine, with
patient persuasion.

Then Harry finds his voice.

"You are very good, Sir Claude," says he, "and I
feel it very much, and I should be glad to serve
you " — here the poor fellow begins to break down — " I
should be very glad to serve you " — his voice is husky
with his smothered anguish, as he stammers out — " but
I didn't know my heart till she was gone. I can't live
without her, and I must go after her, — and if I never
find her, I'll go on looking for her till I die."

They are all gone : Burke, and nurse, and Harry,
and Myrtilla. The door of the Lough Beg Lodge no
longer stands ajar, — it is tightly closed, its windows are
dull and dusty; there are no bright faces, no bright fire
flashes behind them ; the winds have torn the myrtle
down, and there is no hand to nail it up, — it is all gone
into a wilderness again.

Once more only, does the master of Loughmore
ride through that way. He stops to look and to think ;
then, as he passes on

Bar up those gates," — he says.

Yes — bar up those gates ; — it is a spot, not for the

traffic of strange feet ; — a sacred spot, for here too, his
life has seen some happy hours — begin and end.

Whatever was Lorraine's share in turning the sunny-lodge
of Lough Beg back again into a silent wilderness,
nobody laid any blame to his charge, — neither
Harry, nor another, — nor himself. As he had sworn to
Harry, neither by word nor deed, had he sinned in this
matter. Had he so sinned, it would have been a much
simpler problem for him to solve.

For a month he took to silence — took to sitting
with his eyes cast down, fixed upon the smouldering
peat, like Uncle Loftus. No catastrophe of his life —
or rather, no catastrophe of the last two years — had
taken a stronger hold upon his mind, than this, the
latest.

The solution of the problem which at last he
arrived at, was not calculated to lighten the weight
upon his spirits.

There's nothing new in it now ; " so he thinks to
himself. " It's not the first, nor the second time only ;
and I'm neither a vain fool nor a blind idiot, nor I think
vicious ; but it's a fact, that, in regard to women, there's
something baneful that goes to and fro between them
and me, — something which is continually breaking up
my life, — and doing them no end of mischief,"

This was Lorraine's solution to his problem, and
not a satisfactory one.

But he rouses himself at last ; — there is very little
of Uncle Loftus in Claude Lorraine, — and he spends
the next month after a different fashion. He goes
again amongst the married and middle-aged ones.
But this does not answer as it had done before. The
dulness is oppressive, and their society gives him no
distraction from the effects of this new mental jar, — it
is, in fact, quite the reverse. He becomes nervous ; he
thinks of Harry's artless words

You can't help your looks, sir ; " and he grows
afraid to look even the middle-aged ones in the face !
It was neither pretence nor affectation — it was
physical. Perhaps — the result of sitting indoors for
that month, after the breezy life abroad under the sky,
which went before it.

The wise man says, " Consider the end, and you will
never do amiss." Lorraine had no particular wisdom
above his fellows; he had the practical sense which
kept him from extremes, and which taught him also
to take care of himself where it was possible. He
could perceive, too, the advantage of considering the
end ; his difficulty was, that he could not for the life
of him discover — what sort of an end, humanly speaking,
he had got to consider.

He must live, — and he has no one to live for, still
he must do something with his life — but to be bandied

about as he has been, tumbling from one shock on to
another — no sooner out of one pitfall, than into the
next — and all with no seeking of his own — this is a
condition of existence that he will go to the poles, or
to the middle of the earth, or to any other neck-nothing
distance, to avoid.

What's the matter with things ? " cries he. " I
wonder if it's the same with every one else ? "

But no man thoroughly puts his mind to a matter
without turning something or other out ; and Lorraine,
thoroughly in earnest, at last found a saving idea, —
more than mere saving. He hailed it as a drowning
man does the rope thrown to him in his last extremity ;
he seized upon it with unfaltering confidence.

It will be my salvation ! " he cried.

This redeeming idea — occurred to him after a hard
day's ride through an autumn drizzle, as he stood,
pretty well soaked to the skin, wind-blown, and with
the salt spray dashing hundreds of feet up to his eyes,
upon the sheer edge of an Atlantic precipice. Before
him stretched the great ocean ; and at his side gaped a
huge sea chasm, where day and night, with deafening
roar, the mad breakers beat against the barbed rocks
that pierced its black depths ; — and round and round
deep down in the awful gulf, circled the chough and
the sea-mew, glancing like snow-flakes in the darkness.

It was a stormy standpoint for a resolve, but Lorraine's
was taken then and there.

The bluster of winds and waves had never come

amiss to him, and he laughed aloud now with the
excitement of the wild scene ; — it filled him with a new
life.

*' Water," laughs he, " water everywhere ; — it's the
best thing I've come in for — for many a day." One
minute more and the resolve comes.

The sea for me ! I'll take to it altogether. Thereat
least," he cries, " I shall be safe, and I need not
fear my looks ! "

The winds did not hear his vow, for the uproar in
the chasm drowned all lesser sounds ; but it was registered
all the same, — and it was kept.

In another month he was launched. His "trim-built
wherry " was not just such a floating palace as the
world steams round the world in nowadays, but it
was tidy and taut, with plenty of beam, a safe concern,
in fact, in all ways. He called it the Timon ; he
thought the name well chosen. When he came to take
his crew, he looked back to Harry English with a keen
regret.

If it had not been for all that," thinks he, " what
a time of it afloat, we should have had together ! "

Thus once more Lorraine goes forth a world-wanderer
I — and once more, his Fatality sends forth
from an exploding elysium, two other wandering souls,
VOL. III-1- G

driven from their safe joys ! — And by one of those
coincidences which Chance seems to take a reckless
pleasure in adjusting, they are all three launched
bodily, yet singly, upon the same stormy ocean.

Castle Loughmore and the Lough Beg Lodge stand
now alike. Gone back to silence !

The spirit of Sir Loftus may return in peace to
brood over both. Mayhap it has never departed ; —
unseen, yet not unfelt, it may have lingered, to infect
his heir with its own morbid estrangements.

Pes. — We must take leave of our hero for the present
; but let no one be alarmed about him, — he is
always Prince Fortune, — not born to be drowned.

CHAPTER VII.

UNDER THE PORTICOES.

Sara Italia — edifice
Sulla vacant arena
Chi tenta oppor^i — misery !
Sui sogni lor la plena
Dio verse del Populo :
Curate 11 capo, o gente,
La seme del recent,
La nova Roma appear '.
Non deported Ja spada
Finches asia schiavo un angelo
Dear Italy contract ;
Finches non asia Italia
Una air Alps al Mar !

GoiPREDO Mameli,

fell defending Rome, 1849.

It is much more than time, if we would not have her
drop altogether out of mind, to seek again the gentle
company of our Lady Laure.

We have been following too exclusively the steps,
and the example, of her recreant knight. She is all
but effaced from our pages, — but not from our memory !
It may be a question, if even from the memory of
that recreant knight — she has ever been truly effaced.

We know, when brought to the point, with how
III. -J-

much spirit he could speak up for her " courage and
constancy."

In her oivn ivaij, Lady Laure made her mark, —
and that mark was borne in more than one human
heart — borne through life to death.

But in regard to that other, who left her so easily ;
who lived out of her sweet presence with such
apparent satisfaction. What can you say ? Can you
do more than repeat that which the prophet said long
ago?—

Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard
his spots ? "

Tht^.re is the fatalism which underlies everything
in it ! — And yet what profounder truth exists ? Exists
for those who cannot forget, and for those who cannot
remember; for those who cannot be comforted,
and for those who cannot mourn. Exists under a thick
veil, or a thin one, in ourselves; — and in everybody
else.

To find Lady Laure, we must turn again toward
the land of Lorraine's enchantments ; and to the skies
of poor Lucie's new paradise. It was she, who, for all
of them, made the first discovery of this enchanting
Eden, — she loved it from the first, and she loves it to
the last.

And the safe retreat wliicli shelters her sorrows
is none the less soothing to her, — that it is beneath
those skies which beheld her in all the forlornness of

her desertion and bereavement; which look down

on the land that saw her happiest and saddest.

To find Lady Laiire, we cannot go direct as the
crow flies, nor take our flight with the far-wandering
swallow, — though, considering that we travel on the
winsfs of thought, it miojht be allowable to us to do so.
But it would not be convenient, for we have some notes
to make by the way ; and we are in the happy position
to choose. Therefore we make our first stage only as
far as the gates of a little city that once was called
II giojello d'ltalia."

A little city which in times past, from the traveller's
point of view, was better appreciated than it is now, —
now that there is the demand for all in everything.
But to some it is a jewel still. It has fine streets and
piazzas, and statues, and palaces, and porticoes ; and
fine gardens by the side of a fine river. And one step
across the bridge, and you are into the midst of the
mountains, the green hills, and the sylvan woods, and
the slopes dotted with villas and with a fine palace
and crowned with a Royal mausoleum.

Under the clear skies that rule here, all through the
day from high windows you may see, in their glorious
freshness, filling the cloudland, the white peaks of the

great Alpine giants. There lurks a disabling fascination
in this for the stranger, new to such phantom
realities, — he forgets to run about the city for its
sights; and stands gazing and gazing, taking clouds
for Alps, and Alps for clouds.

On summer evenings, as you stroll across some open
square — or quitting the porticoes, walk down the
broadway to the fine river — you may catch the tinkle
of the cow-bell, in sight of the gas-lamp, and even hear
the rustle of the leaves in the woods of the near hills.

It is a pleasant place to find yourself in, when you
are aweary both of crowds and solitude, for you can
have town and country, — you can be gay and quiet.

But at this moment there is but little gaiety in
this pleasant city. A cloud is on every brow, and a sore
sorrow at every heart. Upon some faces there is the
pallor of despair, and upon others the red flush of an
anger that is akin to shame.

A grievous trouble has come upon its loyal people
and its Royal House. High hopes have fallen, and a
King is gone forth from their midst, with broken fortunes
and a broken heart ! And yet — in all his life he
has never been so honoured by his people, so dear to
their hearts, as in this moment of his defeat and self-abasement.


In a cafe under the porticoes sits an Englishman,
revolving in his mind all these things and many
others ; nor did he look much gayer than the rest.

The single cup of coffee ^Yith which he has broken
his fast, seems to have satisfied his appetite ; his white
truffles, his Asti, and his rossini — all delicate specialities
of the place, stand before him untasted. Now
and then he crumbles, now and then he nibbles one
of the long bread pipes, — and that is his best attempt
at this midday meal.

This is not his first visit to this little city. He
has been here a year ago — a year almost to a day —
twelve long months of anxious, impatient, weary
waiting.

He sits with his eyes fixed upon a statue in the
Piazza, of which he catches sight through the arch
of the portico. It is of heroic size. The uplifted
arm is in the act of sheathing a sword, that is never
sheathed.

It has the force of a cruel truth for him.

In his turn, he is the object of observation. The
head waiter of the cafe has been considering him
attentively — and even anxiously, for the last ten
minutes and more.

Inglese — sicuro ! " says he to himself.

If he had spoken to any one else about him, he
would not have used his good Italian, — for here there
is little good Italian to be heard. If you would have
wished to be understood in those days, you would
have done well to speak in French, or in the dialect of
the country.

As for our head waiter, he would tell you with
pride that here he was born, but, like the rest of
them, he had bided about, first in one city and then
in another, till he has forgotten his dialect, and learnt
his good Italian ; — as for French, he will not speak it
to you, except under compulsion.

He has taken to our Englishman, because he cannot
only understand, but reply to him in good Italian.
It is this interest, in this meditative Englishman, which
is at the bottom of his anxious looks.

English ! " thinks he again ; " not to be doubted.
What other country could send here a man who would
sit staring out of doors, with a dish of white truffles
before him served a la fonduta ! "

The cafe is getting empty. The natives take this
meal earlier by an hour.

The head waiter retires into a corner, throws his
table napkin over his shoulder like a weapon in rest,
and, putting one foot over the other and leaning against
the corner of the buffet, he takes out a tattered
volume. This is his hour for reading it, only his time
has been abridged by the conduct of this infatuated
Englishman.

It is a copy of the " Inferno." Nothing wonderful
in that ; — not more wonderful than that an Englishman
should neglect white truffles, and that English waiters
should not know their Shakespeare by name — that is,
the English waiters of that distant time.

English waiters of this present time are mostly not
English at all.

Giuseppe — such is his name — can bear it no longer.
He turns to the buffet, pours out a small glass of
liqueur, and, marching with the air of a commander
to the table of the dreaming Englishman, he cries —

'* Drink, and eat ! " Then he sets down the glass.
"It is vermouth," says he — "for the appetite —
Drink, and you will eat ! "

The Englishman's conscience is aroused, as well as
his mind. He is well acquainted, with the sensitive
feelings which burn or smoulder, — or are smothered, — in
the length and breadth of this much-divided, land. He
loves it well, — he loves its people, — he loves its tongue.
In the midst of his own troubles he could sit down
and weep with it, and. for it. He does his best to
atone for his exasperating conduct, — he takes the dose
with an apology, and drinks it down.

The outraged Giuseppe touches the neglected dish
with the tips of his fingers — and shrinks back dismayed.


Fresco," he mutters ; " freddissimo ! " And he
whisks it off for a rechauffe,

Eat, then," is the command that accompanies the
second appearance of the dish of white truffles — " good
buonissimo ! — fit for a king ! "

Then Giuseppe stops. He is clearly of the
country.

He turns away to his corner — and he murmurs to
himself, " Ah Dio ! povero Ke — j)overo — inflict —
inflict."

And surely that is a tear that Giuseppe is brushing
away.

But when one has to work, one cannot stop by the
way to weep — at least, not stop for many tears ; and
recovering himself — but still with the pitiful face upon
him, inspired by the nobler and sadder theme — and
altogether softened and subdued, Giuseppe advances,
and begs that the dish may be at least tasted ! — at
least tried !

The Englishman thanks him, and always in his
good Italian — and he has a surprisingly sweet befitting
voice ; — this, with a pair of wonderfully kind eyes, are
all the bodily charms he has to boast of.

Giuseppe starts.

Italian ! " cries he.

Ma no"—

But no " is the safe second thought. Ko ; —speak
Italian as well as he may, he is " English, not to be
doubted."

And when this one gets up to go, and gives for his
douceur four times as much as Giuseppe hoped to get
from him, — from the natives he gets nothing at all
perhaps —

"English, and not to be doubted," comes over
again.

There is no particular advantage in this excess of
liberality.

As a foreigner once remarked : " You English

go about the Continent spoiling all the places and the
people— for the rest of the world. You have made
masters and servants uncivil — you have turned the
children into beggars — nobody will do "anything except
for money ; — and then you complain yourselves of — our
exactions ! "

Well, to be sure, the Americans, in their turn, have
helped the English in these results.

Happily, all the places are not yet spoilt ; and there
exists still, many a quaint and comfortable little inn,
in remote valleys and out-of-the-way towns, where it
is a pleasure to live on your few francs a day, — where
you will dine well and sleep well, and receive at all
moments the gracious smiles of a contented host, and
still more contented hostess, and the untiring assiduities
of all the household.

Giuseppe was perfectly correct in his verdict of
English, not to be doubted."

There are other indications which mark this
stranger to have come from the British Isles — beside
his neglect of white truffles, and his open purse.

Til ere is the cut of his hat and his coat — and his
high-low boots — and his walk, which is so inexpressibly
different to the rest of the world about here.

For the rest, he has sandy hair and whiskers ;
extreme height, broad shoulders, — and extreme ugliness.


But it is an ugliness so set off by a pair of large
benevolent eyes, that, after the first ten minutes, you
forget all about it. It is the ugliness of ungainly figure
and features, — not that of expression and vulgarity.

As for the eyes, they might have been framed for a
portrait, both when they beamed forth in all their
active benevolence, and again, when not in observation,
they opened larger and wider — with a vast unconscious
look, which might have made you believe the owner
to be a dreamer, — but for the power of intellect which
went along with it, and which seemed to be on the
stretch with some mighty abstraction of the mind.

They were the eyes of a man, who loved his
neighbour better than himself, and who placed the
severities of study, before the attractions of ease and
pleasure.

The owner of these eyes now, however, appears
absorbed in the mundane occupation of staring eagerly
into every shop window that he passes. Up and down
under the porticoes he goes searching evidently for
something which he is slow to find.

First, he draws up before the shops of mixed
curiosities, — and then the carved-ivories attract him,
and then it is the jeweller's, and then the fans.

Such fans! Of all sizes, of all lengths, of all
colours, — simple and gorgeous. Then he goes on to
the great magazines for the silk and velvet tissues.
And then he falls back again upon the fans.

I must take her something," says he — " something
to speak to her a little of the world, — the world,
thank God ! I am going to take her back into."

So he goes into the shop, and he buys his fan. Ashe
walks away, he gets nervous about it. " I hope
I've done right," thinks he ; — " it is useful."

Just then, he is crossing the open piazza, and he
meets four ladies, and each lady holds a fan high
between her eyes and the sun. They walk well, and
have fine handsome faces ; they wear the veil of the
country, which sets off both their carriage and their
features.

"Yes," says he, growing more satisfied with his
purchase — "a fan is useful; it is not a worldly
ornament. And yet " — thinks he, with the four ladies
in his eyes — " a fan seems to me full of the witchery
of a woman's face, and it is a woman's most bewitching
ornament."

Now this Englishman knew that this little city
had once held the title of the "jewel of Italy;"
indeed, he knew most things simple and profound, —
for he was a scholar — and a reader — in all tongues.

It is a little jewel of a city," thinks he, as he
stands under the porticoes at the entrance of his hotel.
It is rightly named!" — and his eyes follow the figures
of the people as they cross from every angle the Castle
Square —

Peasants from the mountains, with their short
petticoats and mules and broad flat-crowned hats ;

Bersaglieri, with their raven plumes that sweep their
shoulders ; fine-made women, poor and rich, all with
their fans ; cautious-treading townsmen, with their look
of North and South in one ; and the jeunesse donee,
with their dash of pride and their air as much of the
camp as of the court ; and black-frocked priests ; and
brown-cowled friars, — and of these our Englishman
thinks —

They would be a loss to the picture, —but no loss
anywhere else ! They were at the bottom of this
mischief! — of all this patriotic failure ! "

This is our Englishman's private opinion, — which.
Heaven knows, every born Englishman believes he hasa
right to hold and to declare !

As for our friend, — the truth of it is, he is not in
love with priests just now; he has been chafing at,
and fearing them for twelve whole months !

It is enough to put a man out of conceit with his
dearest friend. —

As he thus stands making his comments, close
under his eyes pass two men. They walk as simple
citizens, but every one makes way for them.

The elder man looks for all the world like one of
the cautious-treading townsmen. He is thick-set, and
under the middle size. But the second impression
corrects the first. His face is thoughtful and wary.
He is sj leaking calmly, — but he smiles, and now and
then rubs his hands sharply ; but the smile and the

gestures are more shrewd than gay ; the mouth has no
lines; the face is smooth-shaven; the lips often tighten
The spectacles he wears do not hide the astute fire of
his quick eye. He has the look of a man who cannot
lose hope.

The younger man — younger by many years — has
all the dash, all the haughtiness, all the pride of the
jeunesse donee, with none of its graces, and more than
its martial air. The head is thrown back, the chest
open. He walks the street with the fierce earnestness
of a man in the melee of a battle. He has the look of
a man who can never lose courage.

Behind these two follow two others — one with the
romantic air of a painter or a poet ; the other with the
carriage of a military martinet.

These four cross the square to the homely-looking
royal house that bounds it. As they pass out from
under the porticoes, the younger man looks over his
shoulder and says, " Cassino." And at the word, the
four close up together.

Behind the Englishman stands the concierge; —
in any other land, you would have called him above
his station. But here, the people — like their songs —
partake by nature of the cultivated.

He touches the Englishman on the shoulder.

There," cries he, with a tremble in his voice —
there they go ; and there goes the hope of our
unhappy country ! "

I know," says the Englishman ; " and if the outside

look of men goes for anything, your hope will not
fail you ! "

Let us use our privilege — and survey the years as
they pass forward in this little city.

Still these four figures go to and fro to the homely
palace, and still the good concierge watches them —
still points them out for Hope — and then for Pride —
and then for Triumph !

But one day follows another, and men move on and
move off, — and man's life is but a shadow, and here,
more than anywhere, the mighty changeful Hand
makes itself felt : — and one by one the figures of this
Band of Hope pass out of the ken of the watchful
concierge. Time has not forgotten to streak his black
locks with grey ; he has left his youth behind him ;
but still it is with a smile to his sigh, that he talks to
you of all the changes, — and as the night falls, he will
draw you out of the court, under the porticoes, and say
with the old pride —

Look across to that little window ; the lamp burns
there to-night ; — He is there ! "

But there comes a day, when the head of the concierge
— it is white now — is bowed to the dust.

No lamp burns in that little window ; there is no

cheer in the long frontage of that homely palace, — only
a line of closed shutters.

Just then a traveller comes that way. In many a
year gone by, he has stood chatting with the friendly
concierge ; he is acquainted with all his hopes, and all
his pride, and all his triumph.

But this year they meet in silence. The traveller
respects the grief of the old concierge, — he even
shares it.

He is not there ! " cries the old man, with a burst
tears.

Nor there ! "

And he points his trembling hand to the gorgeouS'
chapel on the hill.

"My friend," says the traveller, "take comfort f
Man cannot live for ever. This one has fulfilled all your
hopes ; he has made a Nation ; and won for himself a
grave in the Eternal City."

A grand and moving drama ! Worthy of all
regard.

But our Englishman stands only at the opening of
it. He beholds only these four manly figures crossing
the Castle Square, in all the strength of their lives,
and of their purposes. The web in which the great joy
of it, and the great grief of it, are tu be so inextricably
woven up, lies as yet, a mass of indestructible threads :

VOL. III. H

coming events indeed are so strong that by all eyes,
the-willing and the unwilling their shadows are to be
seen ; but our Englishman is a stranger fresh to the
land ; — he sees only a little way into these shadows ;
he does not fathom the fateful histories going on
around, — the threads of that web, waiting to be fully
woven.

But he has his willing eyes, and his sympathetic
heart, and he turns off down the porticoes with the
verse on his lips of a young hero-poet, who like
that hero-prince of the homely palace, has been
claimed in death by the Eternal City, as unalienably
her own. —

A claim that could not be disallowed ! And yet,
like all the rest, made up of grief and joy : — a crowning
pride, and a crowning pang to the cities that gave
them birth.

As for our Englishman he knew neither the
name, nor the birthplace, nor the heroic story of
the young poet of his Song of Liberty — he had
bought it that morning on a broad side off a vendor
in the streets, and he murmured to himself this
immortal,

Fratelli d'ltalia "

because its words took hold of his mind, and stirred
his feelings, — as they have stirred the souls, and fired
the blood of many a son of Italy since that day ! — and
of many a true heart besides !

Yes ! — whilst Freedom is cherished, and her patriots
and martyrs are remembered, the fame and
the fate of.

Mameli, his young breast silenced

^^from Song "

will not be forgotten !

CHAPTEK VIII.

SHRINES AND SOLITUDES.

The knees are weak, the race is long,
The battle hard, the foe is strong.
Narrow the gate, and strait the road,
The cross to bear a heavy load ;
And faint and fearful, oft I sigh
For rest, and for security.

Think not of rest ! But deem thy life
A struggle and a deadly strife ;
Toil, watching, prayer, alone can be
On earth thy soul's security !
A rest indeed the saints shall know, —
But 'tis in heaven, not here below ! "

H.

Once more by the blue sea !

Here again is the sweeping coast-line, with its bold
beauty, — with its towns and villages, crowning the
cliffs, or nestling in their clefts, or bordering some level
creek or promontory, — each various, each a little picture
in itself!

Here are the rocks set six fathoms deep in blue
water, and the coral caves, where the waves may hide
when a-weary of tossing their white foam along the
shore.

Here is the wealth of the earth in gold and grey
and green — citrons and olives and vines.

Here is the perfumed air; and here are the
chameleon lights that tint a glassy sea, lilac and rose
-and amber sheen, — lovely as the pearly shells that
lie below it.

Here are the light shallops that skim the surface ;
and here are the ships that seem to sail into the sun ;
and here are the white crests that chase each other in
an endless race.

Here is the shelf they call a road ; and here are the
blood-stained rocks, and the dark gorges ; and here is
the river, a foaming torrent again.

And up there is the village on the rock, — and up
and down go the peasant folk as of yore — some for
the sea, and some for the hills, with their orange kerchiefs,
and their red caps and sashes, their sunburnt
cheeks, their light fare, and their lighter hearts !

Yes ; and here is the white-fronted house, with the
garden gate ajar, and the gay oleanders, and the green
jalousies, smiling as ever, under the rule of the new
tenant.

And there, too, stands the Villa Grimaldi.

Closed and cheerless, — the myrtle hedges meet, the
magnolias are all untrimmed, the verandah has broken
down ; the curtains hang in splits behind the sustained
windows, — they are bare and blindness, they
stare at you with eyes of blank desolation ; a ghost looks

out from every vacant pane ; — it cries aloud that it it
empty, — and yet no one cares to hire it. It has none
of the snug comfort of the white-fronted house.

It is a doomed price, — doomed altogether, and its
owner will pull it down, and set up two little villas in
its place, — little villas on the plan of the white-fronted
house ; and then the ghosts will be put to flight, and
human faces and human footsteps will bring it into the
life of the sun again.

Why it has grown so forlorn no one can say. The
rock shuts out the blast securely as ever, the waves keep
up their sweet murmuring, the citron grove is still full
and fragrant, and the purple hills stretch away behind ,
it with their old seductive charm of sun and shadow, of
mountain path and mountain wilderness.

All unchanged, too, are the stars of these hills, — the
snowy shrines and sanctuaries, which stand out from
their lovely heights, safe and secure — cynosure fur
prayer and pilgrimage, where wandering angels perforce
must tarry, till they leave a blessing for their
ransom ! Safe and secure, — the storm and the thunderbolt
pass them over, rarely the scat of the tempest
comes nigh to them. So they stand all the years round,
never shaken, never forlorn, never forsaken, — with
no ghosts looking out of their uncurtained windows.

To such a shrine must we go ; for it marks the way
we are to take to find the retreat which shelters our
Lady Laure.

But first, if only for the sake of contrast, let us
seek a ruder Solitude.

The way to it is arduous, — beyond these near hills,
and their encircling heights, and along the falling
ridges, to a wild valley stretching between pine-clad
steeps.

Its broken level is a moraine, the glacier bed of a
13ast age, — it lies under the sun, the Gehenna of these
mountains, the hoary giants of the forest, hurled down
by winter blasts, like bleached skeletons, lie rotting
year by year, upon its imperishable debris.

It is the very type of desolation ! But still, it lies
under the sun, — every inch of it is lit up from dawn to
dusk : — it is a smiling garden compared to the black
defile which breaches it northwards.

A huge and gloomy cleft, tortuous and long, and
lofty and narrow. JSTo golden ray has ever cheered
these Stygian depths, — no life, but the torrent of
stormy water ; — this has life, and to spare ! It turns
the head giddy with its wild caprices — now flashing
through the abyss like a white ghost, now becalmed
in strange black pools, which bewitch you to gaze into
their stealthy quiet, — now hissing and hidden between
the confused boulders which block its course.

It is dark down here; the yawning rocks hang-close
and high, they look as if they had been split
apart but yesterday, and seem to strain to meet again
above you, in a terrible embrace.

It is a place of awe and loneliness, nevertheless, it

is a pati to an inhabited abode. A path with a tumble
and a scramble to it, for venturesome feet to follow ; —
but then, you may break your neck upon a kerbstone !
and down here, as elsewhere, if your steps are sure,
you will reach your goal at last, and stand high and
free, the black defile lost in the distance below, and
above you a black shadow against the sky.

A fortress raised by the hand of man, upon a fortress
of Nature's raising. It stands alone, on its defence
against all the storms, defying all the powers of darkness,
whether they assail the body or the soul.

Here live the Grey Fathers, with their many privations
and their one pleasure — the matchless panorama
that Nature provides for them.

Here, from their narrow slab, they behold — morning,
noon, and night — all that earth and sky and sea have
best to display.

East and west spreads a boundless upper region,
peak beyond peak. Below, stretch the lesser heights,
sparse and bare, and lower still slant the green forests,
covering up valley and glade ; — the delusion to the eye
would have you believe that there is but to slide down
these green roofs, to reach the blue sea, which, far-stretching
to its dazzling horizon, bounds this enticing-picture
of a world, to be seen — but not enjoyed.

Behind them rises a different world, which they
may enjoy if they please, — the upper world of virgin
summits, untrodden by the foot of man, sublimely
calm and still.

What dawns are theirs ! What setting suns !

And what nights, when the myriad stars hang low
in the purple darkness, in an atmosphere the dullards
of the plains have never dreamt of! Or when, with a
stranger beauty still, in the sudden twilight straight
up above, upon the solitary towering snow-peak, sits
the one star of evening, large as a moon, red as a
flame ; it is hard to think, that beacon light is nota
fire kindled by human hands — by some benighted
wanderer of these alpine solitudes !

Solitudes, — God-given, and glorified.

But it is not among the Grey Fathers that our
Lady Laure must be looked for.

A thousand, and a thousand feet, below this
monastic fortress, — round by the sweeping valley, and
between the undulating hills, cradled in a nook which
catches every ray of this Southern sun, and holds
it in fruitful possession, — with nothing to see but the
olive wood before and behind, and the trail of the vine
gardens to the right and to the left, — stands the companion
Solitude, — the shrine of Our Lady of Consolation
— the sheltered convent house of La Stella.

Up above there, the poor monks must face the icy
winds, with neither tree nor slope to shield them.
Here below, the favoured nuns breathe a joyous and

sunny atmosphere. Up there, winter with all its frosts ;
down here, spring with all its flowers.

Up there, the scarred branches of some solitary fir ;
down here, the growth of the fig and the olive, festooning
vines, and pasturage for cow and goat, and all the
cultivated treasures of orchard and flower garden. Up
there, they will eat their crust, but they will lack the
handful of herbs to season it ; down here, we shall
make up our dishes, — falsify and haricot, spinach and
asparagus ; and what gatherings and drying of figs
and of plums !

Down here, wee will take our noontide rest, upon
our banks of blue violets. Such violets, — large, pale,
double, intensely scented blossoms, which the world of
folly loves to see crystallized, and in their honhonnieres!

What flowery carpets in crimson, and white, and
yellow, and blue ! What berceaux of roses, loose-blossomed,
thornless, creamy, — all sorts, all kinds, and
how they perfume the air !

What graceful evergreens ! what pointing cypresses !
what aloes ! What a stem of bloom, as tall as the
cypress near to it ! And what a shrubbery there is of
the spiky leaves ! Up and down you may go by terraced
walks and flights of steps, — only the model lawn
is wanting ; — in these lands the planner of pleasure-grounds
has no notion of that. Where all is in
Stature's profusion, — shaven grass, would be out of
place !

There is water too, but no torrent, — a single silver

fall, coming down without a splash into the brimming
tank below it. No gates, no walls, — a simple modern
house, closed round by olive groves and vine gardens.

Here dwell the sisters of the Consolation, with
their pension, and their orphanage, and their dames
pensionnaires.

They are full of godly vows and godly works and
godly recreation. They are the human lilies of the
garden, — here they flourish safely and serenely guarded
by their two good angels — their Virgin Saint, and their
watch-dog Ferocity

is as enticing a Solitude as the bounty of the
earth has to bestow; and maybe it possesses one
charm the more, — that it is a Solitude within close hail
of the outside world. A zigzag cut through the thick
olive wood, with a fall of a hundred feet, comes straight
upon the mountain road. The Consolation is hid
behind its impervious veil, — but sound can burst through
prison bars ; and as the white-hooded nuns glide with
their noiseless steps in the wood, — breviary in hand
reading their of&ce, or with eyes on the ground making
their daily meditation, — the crack of the venturing's
whip, the jingle of the mule-bells, the songs of the
trudging peasants reach their ears, and perchance their
hearts, and speak to them of the busy world they have
done with for ever !

And here we shall find Lady Laure.

But surely — we see her now — upon that terraced
walk ! X *■

She is not so changed in that strait robe, and that
white head-gear, which shades her face, but that we
can know her again.

To look at her, her attire varies but little from that
sister who is walking some few paces on before her, —
but still it varies.

Lady Laure has not assumed the habit yet.

She does not walk alone*; — beside Infer is another

figure to be recognize. . . . ^

\ GraVe and wkh ' a lofty brow, with calm and farseeing
eyes, — and a presence transpire hope, and trust*"
and unto some — awe. With a voice also' to match the
presence, — the very echo of all it tells of.

He is speaking, — and the large blue eyes turn to
him, with all the confidence of their first look in
infancy ; — not a doubt — not a fear — not the shadow of
a distrust, or of a thought kept back.

What is he saying ? His hands behind his cassock,
his look fixed upon the ground he treads.

His words fall like the dropping of water, — calm
even, — distinct and low.

Have trust ! You are taken from the worlds — you
are delivered from its snares. Do you think that the
Divine Hand that deprived you of all your friends in
this world — laid on you these grievous trials to no

end ? Was it not, think you, to perfect the graces of
your soul, already so abundant, — to lead you to walk
in the right and perfect way, which conducts to all
good ? "

But it is now Lady Laure's turn to speak —
"Abate," says she, "our Father in heaven is so
good, that He must love all that is good, — and there
must be many kinds of good — many ways of seeking
it. I cannot think there is only one way — only a few
who find it."

Only a few who find it." It falls from the abate
like an echo, with the key-note changed ; — a plea
changed to a sentence pronounced.

Strait is the way and narrow is the road ; — have-you
not been taught that ? If all can go in, — what is
the meaning of this strait and narrow way ? " and he
bids her stop and answer.

"Ah ! " says she, " I was thinking of all the good
people. I know that there are bad people as well as
good."

What do you mean by good ? " asks he.

"How can I tell you all the ways there are of
being good ? " There is a tearful reproach in her eyes.

There is," says he, " but one way by which good
can be sanctified for us."

I know that we must believe," says she.

To believe aright — we must be taught aright."

The abate's voice lias its most inflexible tone,
and Lady Laiire feels it to her heart.

Ah ! " cries she ; " it is that, it is that, abate !
I can only believe as I have been taught. I can only
Avalk in the way that I have always walked in. I
cannot walk in yours, abate, because — because I do
not understand it."

Then she clasps her hands with all her gentle
fervour. " But you know — you know that I love and
reverence you all. You cannot doubt that."

Once more the abate bids her stop and listen.

His eyes leave the ground, — they meet hers with
the fullest compassion. All the inflexibility of his
voice is gone, — and in its place is the soothing and
kindling solemnity of the office that is his.

"My child," says he, "you say that you do not
understand, — but if you had the love that you lack,
you would then not lack the understanding. To love
and to understand are words which express each other,
only love must lead."

Again the abate's eyes fall to the ground. " The
love that is part of the Divine," says he, "consists in
the submission of the heart, and of the will. Its
source is in the heart,— it has nothing to do with the
knowledge of the human understanding. In the
pursuit of human wisdom, knowledge excites love, —
but iu the wisdom of the saints, love produces knowledge.
He that loves most — knows most. We must

all be as little children ! " cries he ; " we must all
begin as little children ! "

The abate pauses, as if lost in thought. Then
once more he speaks, and with a more exalted tone.
'' What," he exclaims, " are the lofty, the ambitious,
the fruitless conceptions of the unsanctified human
mind in its highest flights, — but the dust and ashes of
vainglorious conceits, — the dead bones of a body without
a soul ? In what does it all end ? In discord, in
detraction, in disappointment, in depression, — in dismay
it may be ; — and it may be, in defiance. Is that a
better state for the soul ? By faith and works, so we
must live ; not by a faith of our own inventing, or by
works of our own selecting. We must find a guide.
It is the gift of Heaven to choose our guides aright.
But let us suppose the soul in safe hands, — and then,
this faith, and these works, will unite her to her Creator,
and instruct her how to love Him."

"Abate," sighs Lady Laure, "I do not think
that it is love that is so wanting in me. It is only
that I cannot change. So many changes — so many
hard things to bear, have come upon me. So much
do I owe to my life here, — so much to you, — so much
have you helped me to says — 'His will be done.'
But yet — I cannot change. I am the same as I was
before it all began. If I could think it a fault, I would
say so ; — you know I am not proud in my heart. But
I cannot think that I am wrong. Something tells me
that tomorrow, when I go from this dear shelter — and

these clear friends, — when I go from you, my best and
kindest friend, still in my old mind, — that I shall do
what is right, and not what is wrong."

Her voice is troubled — and the tears stand in her
blue eyes. But she has courage. She is constant.

So near to all safety ! " murmurs the abate —
so near to it ! "

And he strikes his breast with the bitterness of
baffled hope. Then once again he turns the full power
and searchingness of his commanding eyes upon her.

AVhat is that something ? " says he. " Are the
spirits of darkness less active than ever ? "

Ah ! abate," cries she. " Do not frighten me ;
for I cannot change ! "

"Cannot change!" he repeats. "Is it to change,,
to rise higher, — to advance a step in the ladder of
holiness, — to see the angel at your side, — to take his-hand,
— to be so helped onward and upward ? This is
not change ! It is but to move nearer to the safe road
which we should all seek, — which, if we saw clearly,
we should have no doubts, no hesitation about. It is
but to bring the beautiful twilight of the soul into the
full sunshine of heavenly light."

Lady Laiire meets those commanding eyes with
her own, brimming with tears and tender gratitude
and regret.

She sees how vain are all these words. If they
reached to heaven itself, could they move by one iota
the standpoint of either of them ?

She lays her hand upon his arm.

Come with me," she says — " there ! " And with
the other hand she points into the distance.

I must go there — once more with you."

She half leads the way, turning her head with a
look of gentle entreaty. But he does not hold back, —
he is soon at her side; — then, with slow steps, and
silent lips, and eyes cast down in pressing thought,
they leave the boundaries of the Consolation.

A slant of steps cut below the olive wood, takes
them down to the level of the mountain road ; once
upon it, they follow its line upwards.

They are still silent, — for to-day, there are to be
no more of those fruitless words —and tomorrow — will
see Lady Laure beyond the reach of their renewal.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER IX.

SAINTS AND SINNERS.

He has burst from many a tether ;

She is pure as angel bright.
As they take their way together,

To them comes a priest in white.

On their brows their lives are written,
And the priest can read them well —

Read that sinner sorely smitten,
All her graces he can tell.

Sheep without a shepherd wandering,

He and she go up and down.
Pious priest ! these souls from foundering,

Save ! and win the ransom crown.

Stops the priest that smitten sinner,

Holds him in his pious clasp ;
But he fails to touch or win her, —

Like a cloud she leaves his grasp.

Safe, poor sinner ! take thy rest, then !

She must wander on alone;
All her graces still unblest then, —

Cannot save her or atone.

We left Lady Laiire and the Abate Faa di Bruno,
with a silence between them, that came of a tacit
consent.

As a usual thing, — there would have been nothing

forced in their walking side by side with voiceless lips,
for they were not talkers.

The abate was a man who never opened his
mouth but to say the thing that had to be said ; and
Lady Laure had the happiest sort of taciturnity, which
neither weighed upon herself nor on her companions.

But to-day it was neither the lack of a momentous
topic, nor the repose of happy silence, which closed
their lips, — it was rather, as Lady Laure said sadly to
herself, because to speak was vain.

They are mounting the spur of a projecting cliff.
The ascent is sharp, — the cliff is steep, — and the fall
is fenced off by a parapet of stone.

As they near the crest, they behold two objects : a
white-washed shrine, set into the parapet, — and opposite
it, on the more level ground, the four low, white-washed
walls of a small enclosure. It stands bare and treeless,
the iron gateway fastened with a single ring. Inside,
sparsely scattered, are a few rudely carved wooden
crosses.

It is the Campo Santo of La Stella, — and it is here
that Mr. Mildew, his troubles over, found his rest at last.

These two who knew and loved him well, who had
some guess of what and how keen those troubles were,
stand together now, to take another last farewell of
him, — and of each other.

In the happy days of poor Lucie's new Paradise,
poor Mr. Mildew dropped out of mind.

But in the Purgatory that followed so swiftly upon
it, Mr. Mildew came up again ; — came up with a still
tenderer tie for Lady Laure, since the safe shelters
kind Heaven granted at last to both of them were near
unto each other. To Lady Laure, at first, it seemed
but a small thing, the difference between his retreat of
death and her retreat of life; — to her they seemed
once more together.

Day by day she stood beside his grave, — she brought
to it the flowers that he loved, and she loved, — she
opened all her heart to him, and it seemed to her that
he heard her and replied.

Yet not all her heart. She talked to him of the
father she had lost, — of the brother she had loved, — of
the friends she had found, — of the peace that was entering
her heart ; — but not one word of the lover who had
forsaken her, — not one word does she say to this dear
dust of that disdainful scorner.

She breathes no word of all the broken-hearkened s
of the quick fulfilment of those prophetic fears. And
if she could have spoken, it would have been with the
same halting words as in the old days, when her sighs
were the foreshadowing of her abandonment. She
could neither have blamed nor justified, — for she was
still herself — still unchanged.

As she said with her sweet appeal to the abate —
*' I cannot change."

Not in any chosen spot — in truth, in this narrow
space, there is no chosen spot to take — but with its
Wooden cross, just like the rest — is the grave of Mr.
Mildew.

Spes — fides — Capital." So runs the legend,
roughly cut in a sort of nimbus, on the three arms of
the cross, with just his dead name in the middle, joined
to these three living words.

Lady Laure's tears are flowing, — she is touched to
the heart with all the pathetic thoughts of this last
interview.

She takes the hand that has been the hand of a
lather to her, she looks through her tears at the green
grave at her feet.

And — " Ah, my friends ! " she cries ; " if I could
but once more hold a hand of each ! My friends, —
my friends ! in what world shall I find you again ? "

But the hand of another Friend — of another Father;
the Will of that other Power, which has overruled all
her destiny, — which has not quitted her for an hour,
unseen — unfelt — unknown, — but always beside her,
with its resistless sequences, its silent forces, its secret
springs, its halt, and its advance, — is here at this
moment, strong, prescient as ever : — here with its
mighty shield, and its mighty stay, — and it brings up
for the next turn of her fate — the heavy rumble of a
travelling carriage appearing above the crest.

The noses of the leaders come first, it advances

upon them with all the speed of a cracking whip and
four horses; — and within it sits Arthur Aboyne.

We have seen him before, face to face — and but
just lately too, — for he is our Englishman with the
benevolent eyes — with the willing eyes and the sympathizing
heart, whom we made acquaintance with
under the porticoes of the little city.

Just a year gone by — all these had met together
on this spot, even as they do now, — the Abate Faa di
Bruno, Lady Laure, Mr. Mildew the silent witness,

and Arthur Aboyne ; but then two were to stay,

and one to go ; — now it is all reversed.

Then boyne was going — going with infinite regret,
infinite anxiety — going alone !

In the last moment he spoke up — as men are wont
to do with their last words.

He owned to a deep personal feeling, but he said
he put it far from him ! He said — he would ignore
from that day forth its very existence !

He took higher and broader grounds. He urged
his duty, as a father's substitute, and how it behoved
him to act as the man who received that father's
failing words, — he told how one beloved name was
the last upon that father's lips, — he spoke of the vow
he made to be to his child all that a father could be, —
to watch and guard over her, if needs be, with life

itself, and as long as life should last, and he bade
them know and feel, how a firm trust in this vow and
its faithful fulfilment, smoothed that last hour of
agony, and sent a father smiling to his doom.

And he asked, how — how he is to reconcile this vow
how his conscience is to permit him to turn his back
upon his ward, and upon his sworn duty to her !

How is he to leave her thus — barely eighteen years
of age — in a foreign land !

Yes ! " cried Aboyne — " Why should I dissemble
my fears ? — and in the hand of an alien Church ! "

In one year, Arthur ! " sighed Lady Laure.

Leave to me my year of mourning, — leave me for
this year, — in this holy spot — with this holy man — with
these friends who have beheld all my sorrows, who
have known all my tears ! Leave me here in this
abode of peace and consolation for this one year — and
then — I will come ! "

And so he went — condemning his own weakness,
and distrusting hers.

And here he is — true to the day, and to the hour —
come to claim her promise.

And here is she too, ready to redeem it, — it is more
than he has dared to hope for, it is a boon he has only
dared to pray for !

There are but few words between these two men —
between the man who would take her — and the man
who would keep her.

They look at each other with mistrusting eyes.
True — each one credits the other with the desire to
befriend this " desolate young girl " — and to see her
befriended. But they do not stop here — it is with
something more than this that they credit each other.

In Aboyne, the abate sees a possible lover, whose
passion is backed by the power of a guardian, and
whose persuasion is strengthened by the intimacies of
family relations.

In the abate, Aboyne beholds the champion of
his Church — the propagandist, greedy after human
souls, if after nothing else ! — presuming upon the
tenderness of youth, and the sympathies given to
sorrow in the time of need.

There can be but little love lost between the representatives
of such opposing interests, — and scant enough
is their mutual greeting. They content themselves
with a cold bow of the head, as they meet again this
day, — with the prize or the prey, as they may please to
call it, between their four hands.

Five minutes more, and Aboyne, at least, can afford
to smile.

He is nearer to the winning-post than that other
now, in spite of all his opportunities, by many a
mile.

"Our departure will be for tomorrow," says he.
He steadies his voice, — he speaks under it. But if he
could have his fling, he would make these rocks and
hills resound again and again to his words !

But he is afraid even to give a sign of his joy, — he
has a superstitious dread of upsetting all this blessed
release and restoration and redemption by some eager
word or rash look. He does not even face Lady Laure.
He looks at the abate with all the benevolence he can
muster ; — it is no hard task for him, for he is endowed
by nature with the full power of its kindliest expression.
But this time, indeed, he dissembles all his
feelings.

The abate answers his look with his most commanding
glance; — he is calm, and cold, and concentrated
; — all the majestic power of the man comes out, —
and Aboyne recoils before it.

How — how," he cries to his heart — " how has she
withstood him ! "

Then the abate bends his eyes to Lady Laure,
and lays his hand upon her.

"You leave us, then, tomorrow ! my poor child !

tomorrow "

What an unspoken regret echoes in that last —

"To-morrow"! and what an unspoken blessing

dwells in those eyes, and in the touch of that hand !

Ah, no ! ah, no ! " cries Lady Laure. " I cannot
bear it. To-night — now — all is ready ! And I am
ready, — Arthur, I am ready ! "

She speaks to Aboyne — but she looks at the
abate. She takes both his hands — she hides her
face in them — her sobs and tears break out, and she
cries aloud —

Oh, my friend, my father, how shall I go on without
you ? — how shall I live in that world again ? "

With the last exertions which surround the last
moments of all departures — Lady Laure's composure
returns.

She feels — but her feelings are under her control.

And now, as she had said, — all is ready, — and she
is ready — ready for the start ; — the horses are harnessed,
the carriage is in sight — and stowed away
behind it, is the small amount of luggage she takes
with her.

It raises her at once in the good opinion of Paolo —

the venturing,— in whom the sight of big baggage
invariably excites an ill-disguised contempt for his
live cargo.

He is already on the box, his reins gathered up,
his long whip in rest, — and in his broad-brimmed
hat a bunch of red flowers, which greatly set off
the black eyes and curly locks that shine beneath it.
At his side sits Mademoiselle Sabine, — yes, — our old
acquaintance Mademoiselle Sabine. We will give
her a friendly greeting, for to her were addressed
the last words spoken, in our hearing, by our dear
Lucie !

Convent life has not embellished her gristle face,
there are some lines about the mouth and eyes — and
the tint of the skin is yellowish. She sits with her
face curiously puckered up, — it is difficult to say
whether she is laughing or crying ; but by the light
of her subsequent conversation, when they drive off,
addressed partly to the shade of her mother, partly to
herself, and partly to Paolo, it is made clear that she
is crying — crying for joy !

Oh ! pauvre mere, si tu pouvais pendant quelques
instants quitter ton pauvre tombeau, si tu pouvais voila
joie de ta pauvre file, cela ferait du bien a ton
pauvre coeur ! — Ah, Dieu ! — le bonheur de se sentir

hors de cette affreuse prison! On n'aura pas a

chercher Infer dans Autre monde, tant que ce convent
existed dans celui-ci."

And she o-iyes a look of concentrated horror and

hatred back at the receding trees which conceal the
House of Consolation.

Paolo, like his fraternity in these lands, is inclined
to be a bit of a wag, a bit of a cynic, more than a bit
of a " bon Catholique."

He pulls up Mademoiselle Sabine sharply, and tells
her she'd better look out, or else she will get into a
place of this name, not so easy to escape from.

He further remarks that " Pour une femme comme
vous, — who could want to be troubled with you up
there?" — and his whip-handle takes the direction of
Mademoiselle Sabine's looks of aversion.

Upon which she begs him to know that nobody
up there did want to be troubled with her ! — that they
had done their best to get rid of her ; that it was
une vraie persecution ! " but that they had persecuted
her in vain.

She says that long ago she had told the Signer
Abate himself that she would go as far as the original
of that place, to serve her white angel, and she had
done so ; and she would " never have come away
without her, and that is more ! "

Paolo shakes his head. He says, " II faut vivre, et
pour vivre, il faut travailler, — mais il n'est pas toujours
possible de choisir son genre de travail — voila, qui est
clair ! "

Dame ! " cries Mademoiselle Sabine. " Vous ne
me croyez done pas ! Une coiffeuse, comme moi ! —
je ne serais pas embarrassed de trouver une place,

n'importe on! — mais je vous dis, que j'y suis rested
parceque cela me plaisait, en cepit dieux, et me mount
dieux tout le temps ! "

Paolo gives in ; which is the man's proper province
in a war of words.

But certainly the poor nuns ought to come in fora
share of whatever commiseration may be extended to
Mademoiselle Sabine for her voluntary imprisonment
amongst them.

But let us put aside Mademoiselle Sabine, and go
back to the group gathered round Lady Laure.

It is a sweet tableau of parting friends — outside
this modern house, upon the well-kept terraced walk of
this graceful garden.

The sun is just past its meridian height, — its rays
are half screened by the tall trees to the westward, —
the flowers are contributing their brightest colours,
their most fragrant odours, — and half a score of canaries-twitter
within a green wired aviary, — they bob up and
down within their narrow boundaries, with the tied
legs of all imprisoned creatures, created for the full
freedoms of life, — just as the sisters do, when recreation
time comes round, — only the voices of the canaries pour
forth their songs all unchecked and unrestrained, for
they have been born behind their bars, and their
hearts are glad, and there is no pining with them for
the liberty they have never known.

What a picture is this group of calm-featured

sisters, in their girdled soft-coloured robes, and snow-white
veils. And in their midst Lady Laure, taller
by a head, — attired now in the garb of the world she
is going to live in again.

She has lost none of her beauty through her
sorrows and her tears. The matchless calm, the matchless
air, and the tranquil hours of the shelter she is
leaving, have added to her strength, and to her stature.

Every one would embrace the gentle lady, who
is bidding them farewell, — even the lay sisters claim a
share in this tender adieu.

To her hands come up the young pupils with a
Wondering air — they do not understand the transformation
; — nothing is asked — nothing is explained within
convent walls.

At her feet, clinging to her knees, are the orphans
in their convent dress ; — they have been Lady Laure's
especial interest, — many of those coarse linen frocks
and pinafores have been put together by her own fair
hands. And there stands the gardener, the recipient
of many a franc, — and at his side Feroce, the recipient
of many a bone ; — there is no need to tell the secrets
of the day to friends of his race — they know what's in
the air ; — and Feroce, great fellow, will let them know
it too, — he will not be left out — he leaps up — he will lick
her face with all the expressive marks of a dog's farewell.

And further down is the mild eyed ruler of this
household, the low-voiced Lady Superior, and — " Bless

you, my cliilcl ! " — says she. " We will remember you
in our prayers."

And further on is a tall, calm, commanding man —
his eyes, his voice, his hands have still in them that
unspeakable blessing which he is there to bestow; —
and with the bestowal of this benediction, which —
who can look in his face and doubt ? — comes from his
very soul, — he holds out a small medal of base metal ;
if it were cut out of the heart of a ruby it would not
add to its value in the eyes of the giver.

And wear this ! " he says.

He does not add, — for my sake — but, " For the
sake of our Blessed Lady ! "

But just as the whip is lifted for the plunge of the
start — another travelling party drives up and appears in
their midst ; — the four horses back, and caracole, and
are drawn with difficulty to one side, — and the little
catechise is made room for. Two ladies descend from it,
and one holds with intense precaution a covered
burden ; — it is not the weight of it, that you see in her
careful manner, — it is the preciousness of this burden
which attracts all eyes.

These ladies are no strangers to this holy sisterhood.
They are pious women, — come to make their
temporary retreat from the vexations and vanities of a
troublesome world, — and also to get out of the way of
the troublesome possibilities of an exposure to the
blasts of the mistral, which has presented itself, quite
out of season, in the less sheltered places of the coast.

Though nothing is to be asked, or to be explained
within, — yet curiosity as to things coming from without,
is a quite legitimate indulgence in the religious
life, — and our good sisters do not fail to indulge in it.
One after another they attempt to relieve the younger
lady of the precious burden she is carrying with something
more than politeness.

Ah, mesdames ! how good you are ! " cries the
mild-eyed Superior. " You have brought us again your
beautiful flowers for our altar ! "

Mais non," says an aged sister, whose hairs
would call down your veneration, if such hairs were
visible.

" Mais non, ma mere," cries she, with the freedom
of superior years to superior rank.

C'est bien le calice door, pour la chapelle, que
madame nous a promis ! "

It is a costly promise, — and at its reminder, a disturbed
look crosses the face of the elder lady. With
inconsiderate haste she catches the burden out of her
daughter's hands, — and depriving it rapidly of its
covering she displays — a sick parrot! chained to its
perch, hanging down its green head half denuded of
its feathers, — blinking its white eyelids, — and presenting
a most deplorable spectacle of bird invalidism.

You voyez, mes amis ! " — cries the lady, with a
helpless look of appeal. " Que faire ! c'est elle," —
nodding at her daughter with something of disgust.
C'est elle qui Ira voulu ! "

The mild-eyed Superior gives an expressive smile ;
the aged sister clasps her hands for the fun of it ; —
and, with the cue given, the inferior ranks begin to
laugh merrily — and even loudly.

It is an admirable tableau, could it be fixed with
the pencil — and an admirable sample of the mild jests,
that these mild-eyed, mild-thought communities, are
permitted to make merry about.

As for Lady Laure, — this little comedy came
altogether opportunely.

It arrived at the very moment when she was near
to breaking down again, — and sent her away from her
safe retreat amidst a shower of smiles, instead of tears.

One face alone wore no smile amongst this crowd
who were bidding her God-speed, — it was the face of
the Abate Faa di Bruno. In truth, his lips were
made for all things else, but the smiles of mirth.

He smiled in pity — in kindness — even in condemnation
; — but the smiles of unburdened souls, or of
spirits that could be sad and glad by turns, were
not the signs of his grave rejoicing. i

VOL. III.

Interlude.

'Tis night ! the tempest howls, the torrent roars.
Ope, pious monk, your still monastic doors.
Here let me rest till summoned from my cell
To prayer and penance by the matin bell.
Give me, — 'tis all you can, and all I crave —
Your rule, a sackcloth garment, and a grave.
Death I forestall a little ere I die,
And like the hopes I leave — a ruin lie.

From the French.

The thick snows are falling fast, — not with the soft
fall of low-born winter skies, but with the dreadful
strength of the white land of the tourmente and the
avalanche.

Whose reckless foot is this which mounts in the
declining day, to the ice realm of the Alpine king ?

- What intrepid traveller is this, who has dared to
face the blinding storm, — who climbs the last ledge of
slippery rock, and stands safe in life and limb before
the gate of the Grey Fathers.

He rings the rusty bell with a firm hand.

'Tis rusty with disuse, as well as with age and
rough weather. But, if some rare chance awakes its
hollow clang — it echoes from height to height with so

wild an alarm that it scares the chamois from its
hiding-place— and sends the affrighted eagles circling
round in unwonted disturbance.

To-night it is muffled with the falling snow —
muffled like a peal for the dead.

The lay brother who throws back the unwilling
doors — heavy and mailed, to keep out, not men, but
storms — starts at the tall black figure which comes
between him and the white wall behind it.

A majestic figure, and a majestic voice that claims
an audience of the Prior himself.

This late traveller has not long to wait, — nor is he
received as such chance visitors may expect to be.

Along the uneven courts, and up the rough and
narrow steps that lead to the Prior's own cell, the lay
brother shows the way.

The door is low ; — the traveller must lower his high
head almost to his knees to enter in.

It is an act of abasement, — a daily act.

Good for the soul," — said the pious anchorite,
who raised this solid mass upon the foundation of his
fragile hut.

"Father," says the man who has now performed
this act for the first time, — who hopes that it will bean
act that he Avill repeat each day, with his daily
orisons, until he come to die

" Father," says this man, — ^' I bring a life fora
life — a soul for a soul. No man can do more."

Long, and very long, does the lamp burn in the
Prior's cell this night ; — and when the first rays of
the morning dawn — this lamp is burning still.

Night is still hovering over the plains, but for this
high Avorld, the sun has risen ; but not as the setting,
is the dawning : — the tourmente has stayed its fury ; —
there is only the stealthy avalanche to fear. Cloudless
is the lower earth, cloudless is the upper sky.

The giant sno^Apeak rears its great head, dyed rosy
red — each lesser summit gleams with the kindling-touch
of the glorious orb, as it shows its golden face,
across the sea of mountain-tops, — with the white
mantle everywhere. Out of the dark cells and cloisters
of this dark building, two figures step forth into the
full blaze of this gorgeous scene. Their sight is dazed
with the sudden glory, — but the eyes of one are, by long-habit,
seasoned to this ever-recurring splendour of the
opening day ; — eyes, clear and bright as are the eagle's,
which at this moment is winging its bold flight into
the midst of these fiery rays.

A venerable head ! — white with age and penance,
in height and noble carriage, not yielding to the
majestic form of the man who stands beside him, with
his face hid in the folds of his long garment.

A holy man, from a land up in the far North.
Maybe for this cause he has chosen this region of snow
and ice, to live in — and to die in.

"Brother," says he, "let this thought — this
night, pass away out of your mind like the thin vapour
up yonder, which has this moment gathered, and
which, ere we cease to speak, will have dissolved again
before our eyes. Take your life back to its appointed
service of our dear Lord. The harvest is still for the
reaper. Go in hope, — and go in peace."

CHAPTER X.

THE SPHINX.

As in caverns of the earth.
Nature, at the jewel's birth,
Paints it with a stedfast hue
That pervades its being through, —
Lady, such my love to you !
So your image is combined
With all thoughts that haunt the mind ;
So pervades and fills my heart,
That the twain can never part.

As the jewel's native hue.

Which doth every part pervade ; —
Time can never dull nor fade,

Never change nor stain anew : —

Lady, such my love to you !

So your image Time nor Fate

From my heart can separate.

And though force the jewel split.
Still as every shattered bit
Keeps unchanged its early hue, —
Lady, such my love to you ! '

And although my heart may break,
It can ne'er your love forsake.
Nor another image take."

H.

To place no limit to her trust in the friends that
claimed her confidence, was the most supreme gift of
Lady Laure's supremely gifted heart ; — and this virtue

of hers seemed in her case to beget a corresponding
candour and integrity.

She could say she had had three sincere friends.
How few can do as much !

As for her friend Arthur's sincerity, that indeed
was a thinoj never to be doubted. He was not a man
to protest much in words, but his deeds spoke for him.
But these deeds were too little on his own side.
Candid as was his character, he never showed himself
oS he was.

All his life he . had been playing the cold part of
the silent lover, — and all his life he had been making
b his heart the most fervid protestations, — and all
Ms life Lady Laure had been the object of them. In
f poetry, and in sober prose, and when the moon shone —
md by the garish light of day — it was always the
came vow. Love for ever ! Love for ever !

But — melancholy fatality ! — when the moment came
:hat he spoke out as he never spoke before, — with
i bold avowal of this personal feeling, and before
witnesses, — joined to it, came the oath to put it far
from him. With one hand he bared his love, — with
the other he flung it away. He declared it lived, — only
to swear that its very existence should henceforth befor
ever utterly ignored.

Does any one suppose that it was in his power —

that it could be in any man's power — to keep such an
oath ? It is open to him to retire again into his pale
abstraction of the silent lover. But — to put his love
far from him ! — as well require of the living entity to
divide the heart from the brain.

Yet by Lady Laure he was readily credited, and
with a full belief.

She did not enter into the depths of his love. Her
experience of the love of men had not been such as tc
invest it with any very vigorous vitality. She did no;
weigh the gravity of the stake he had been throwing
for, all his life. She did not fathom, that when h(
had spoken thus, it was in the fervour of an imperious!
desire, a desire, which he realized as his first duty ii
life, to remove all obstacles that could stand in tht
way of his rescuing her from a near and paramount
danger, — a danger which to his mind was the greatest
that could menace or befall her. And moreover, sid
had none of these fears for herself; she did not perceive
the full force of bis cry — To the rescue !

The cry when the enemy at all costs must be routed,
when all considerations save the battle to be won,
vanish from a man's mind.

Lady Laure's sadly serene blue eyes see nothing of
all this, — they meet his in the fullest confidence that for
all time, this personal feeling was to be looked upon as
an extinct volcano.

If indeed in her recollection this volcano had ever
been in visible action, even her confiding soul might
not have been so trustful.

But as for these silent lovers — these smothered
fires — what in the nature of things can they look for,
except that we should tread upon them, if needs
be, as if they were nothing but the dead ashes of a
buried past ?

But not only this, — everything else that was on the
surface, helped Lady Laure's woman's confidence in
these impossible disclaimers.

What was there to suggest a tender passion, either
felt or inspired, in Aboyne's own personnel ? — it is hard
to find another word to express the altogether of a
man's appearance ; — what was there in that ungainly
figure, which overpowered you with its proportions ; —
what was there in that face and those features, those
sandy locks, which would look unkempt, whatever their
luckless owner could do to the contrary; — what had
the luckless owner of all this in common with the
erotic god ?

Even the eyes would look nothing but benevolent,
do what he could.

There mio-ht have been a lurking: blessing" in the
midst of this curse of ugliness — if he had known how
to handle it aright.

It gave him the entree without opposition, — it disarmed
fear ; — but the man was not made for wiles.

He was a simple creature, and was in all things as
God made him, and left him.

For Lady Laure herself, these unrestrained relations
were full of a blessed balm. To sit thus face to face
with a friend, who has sworn to be her friend and
nothing more, — who has sworn to be her friend for life,
whom she knows to be the soul of honour, truth, and
justice, — whose heart she believes is the temple of all
the virtues, — what greater balm than this could she
have found at this crisis to mitigate the trial of her
lonely lot ? She wished that all things but the volcano
should be between them as in the old days — days
which dated back to the earliest of her life.

Arthur," says she, " why say ' Lady Laure '? If I
am not Laure to you, to whom else can I be Laure ?
Who else in all the world have I left to me but you ? "

They travel slowly. There is indeed no need to
hurry. He will have her delay here or there — or whereever
there is aught that he knows can distract or
divert her mind — or help to bring it back to its old
channels.

He has always some ready excuse to offer. " A few
days hence," says he, " will be better to arrive there ; "
and " to go round by that way, we shall find better
accommodation. ' '

As for himself, his volcano was never before so near
to an eruption in its smothered existence.

But lie kept it down, — shut his eyes, and enjoyed
with all his soul this brief present hour.

It was a wonderful hour for him. There had never
been any hour like to it in all his life ; — and a voice,
that by fits and starts tolled like a miserable knell in
his ears — said that for him there would never be any
hour like it again.

But he would give it no hearing ; he cast it behind
him, as if it had been the Evil One himself; — in fact,
he treated it very much as he had proposed to treat
his personal feeling.

Thus he shut both eyes and ears, and drank off all
his life's joy at a draught.

But it was not for many days that he ventured to
bring out his fan. With really shut eyes, he had spent
many a moment of these days picturing its effect and
reception. He was one of those men to whom women —
his ideal at least — were of the nature of their great
sister of the desert.

They were a wonder and an enigma to him.

It was not with Lorraine's scornful cry, " I know
nothing about them," that Arthur Aboyne approached
the other half of human-kind.

It was rather in the spirit in which men, imbued
with the passion of a past age, approach the shrines
which, by the sacrifice of their lives, they have at last
unearthed.

They stand iu this unfamiliar presence, — wondering
by what process they have brought themselves so far.

They stand — still unsatisfied, — trembling, fearing,
hoping. They would know all the mysteries of this
shrine, — they would behold all its beauty, — they would
read all its meaning ; and yet they hold back — they
fear to find it nothing but the baseless fabric of a
dream.

It is the sensitive tribute of the scholar, not of the
man whose wits are keener than his tastes.

And such a poor sensitive scholar is Arthur
Aboyne, — rich in many sympathies — in much learning ;
poor in the wisdom of this world — poor in grasping
the substantial things ^^hich make up the resisting
power of life, — a man whose fate from first to last is to
exist upon shadows.

It was in the most alive of all the dead cities, —
whose antique vitality could not be destroyed, even
by the presence of a hated and an alien rule, — a city
with so many voices of the past, that even the time-stained
marble of its statues rings to the touch with
a living note, pitched in the very key of human
utterance : — in a garden of cypresses, which reckoned
their ages by centuries, — whose boast it was to spring
nearest to the sun's eye, and yet to debar mother earth

of none of the golden rays : it was in this garden of

cypresses and sunshine that Aboyne brought out his
fan.

Lady Laure took it with a kind smile of thanks.
She spread out upon her black dress its snowy glories
of silk and seed pearl, and feathery fringe and ivory ;
and then she looked at him and then at it.

We are hasting away, Arthur," says she, " from
the land where a fan is something more than the mere
toy of a woman's toilette, and a feeling in my mind
tells me that with such toys I have quite done — done
with altogether."

Then she adds, " When we get back, I shall go to
my dear home. I shall not find it lonely — not more
lonely than it was for me in my childhood — and before
all these — last things came upon me. You know I
was so often alone — so often alone there ; — and the
dear faces that I shall miss there, — I miss everywhere
here as much as there !

At Bellarmine I shall spend the second year of
my mourning. You will come and see me there — you
will live there all you please, — but I shall see no one
else — no one of society, I mean, — and after that " —
says she, turning her blue eyes upon him — '' after
that, I shall do what I am called upon to do, — I shall
mix in the world again, — I shall try and make the
name I bear honoured ; — I am the last of my race, — I

will not hide their name under a bushel, Arthur !

But I shall never quit this black dress, — and I
shall never more put on gold or jewels — or wear all
those pretty things which are for the entirely happy ! "

Such was the programme of her life to be, — laid
down by Lady Laure.

It was evoked — nay,, it sprang life-size out of her
heart, with the sight of Aboyne's snowy gift for beauty.

He had thought long, — before he could fix his
mind to it. How many times did he walk up and
down under the porticoes of that little jewel of a city
before he could decide which of her jewelled Avares
was most worthy of the lady of his thoughts ! " It
must be something to speak to her a little of the
world, — but not too much ; " and then he fell to moralizing
about the witchery which resides in women and
in fans.

To the last he is a little doubtful, — it is his nature
to distrust himself; — but lately, as he had watched day
by day the fair face which mss to look from behind
this fan, he was in better heart about his choice.

It came to him with a hope that these serene eyes,
which saw all things with a quiet pleasure — that this
composure, this gentle expansion, this power of resolution,
betokened a returning cheer.

He was fain to think that already the grey veil of
time was falling between Lady Laure and those
vacant chairs. But he was mistaken.

He was like the man who, finding a treasure — a
calm and gleamy moonstone — looks into its tearful
petrifaction, and expects to see the sparkling water of
the diamond.

No ; Aboyne did not read his enigma aright, — and
as the years went on, he read it never the more clearly.

He gave her all his patient life, and she gave him
all her quiet smiles, — and these smiles bewildered him.
Then, one day, the patience took fire, — and the volcano
burst forth.

And it burnt as it had never burnt before. It
could not be helped, — but it was the end of it all.

For him thereafter, there were neither enigmas nor
smiles, — nothing but dust and ashes, covering up an
unquenchable volcano, — nothing but a life to be lived
and a death to be found — somewhere !

CHAPTER XI.

THE "TIMON."

And I have sworn this sainted sod
Shall ne'er by woman's foot be trod."

We have not quite done with solitudes.

There is Lorraine with his solitude of the Timon,
A breezy sort of solitude to be sure, with its —

Sweep through the deep,
While the stormy winds do blow ; "

but still a solitude — an absolute solitude as far as
woman-kind are concerned.

Yes ; Lorraine still sticks to the Timon, and as
the years go on his adherence is only the firmer.

That good craft has fulfilled all her engagements ;
she has neither sprung a leak, nor carried away her
masts ; and, what her master prizes yet more highly ;
her deck is still guiltless of a woman's foot !

Time indeed flies fast on ship-board. The husband
or the lover, who at the end of his three years' commission
holds his wife or his betrothed to his heart,
cries with a strange wonder, " And can it be three whole
years, my love, since we so met ? "

Three centuries, say," is the quick reply. " Ah !
what a long weary time it has been ! "

Not that Lorraine — like England's gallant admiral
roamed the seas, with never a sight of her white cliffs
to glad his eyes. With the Timoyi to fall back upon,
he ventured into every portland there were few harbours
at home or abroad, which didn't know full well its
green pennant, and its master's gay and hearty presence.

Yes; Lorraine is grown gay and hearty. The
fickle waves to him have proved the model of all
fidelity, — the trustiest of all true friends. They have
swept the cobwebs from his brain, — they have opened
the floodgates of his heart, — they have intensified his
downrightness, — and steadied his instability; — they
have made the man of him at last.

It is the softest summer sunrise that ever dawned
upon the earth.

The Timon, her white sails set, filled by an invisible
wind, is borne along upon sparkling waters to a city
all of gold — gold at least to the eye, as it sleeps in
these amber and ruby lights.

A glittering mass of gilded domes and ^ polished
balls. A wilderness of fantastic roofs and cupolas,
too intricate, too bright almost, to rest the eye upon.

VOL. III. L

It is a relief to look beyond, to the waving
branches which sweep down to the waves ; — and to the
softer confusion of tapering minarets, fairy palaces,
and the pointing cypresses of the gloomy gardens of
death.

But soon the sleep of the city is over, and with a
great heave it awakes, — and as the Timon takes the
course towards the shore through a forest of masts, and
the molest crowd of vessels ever gathered together —
the noise grows distracting.

Every narrow deck has its own hubbub, — big guns
are firing, bands are playing, — national anthems to one
hand, national volleys to another, — alongside boatmen
are clamouring, commissioners are vociferating, — and
then at a moment, as the great disc comes fully up, the
shrill sweet cry of the muezzin pierces the air, — it
follows, and it follows from mosque to mosque, — it
comes nearer and nearer, — and then it dies away as
it came, — and this is beautiful — it is like an angel's
presence in a pandemonium.

On the shore itself the turmoil is indescribable ; —
men of all skins, all tongues, all costumes, — all crushing,
all calling, — all getting out of the way of yelping
dogs, of titanic porters with burdens too big for
elephants, and of the gay Arabas with tinkling bells,
oxen and black slaves, and eyes full of depth and
languor peeping between the silken hangings.

It has all been described before, and of late fast
and furiously — ad nauseam — and possibly this may
prove the last straw that breaks the camel's back.

But it is done with here, for the master of the
Timon does not set foot on the shore.

He is something of an epicurean still, — he has heard
of mean aspects and ill-payed lanes, of evil sights and
sounds and smells, of white slaves and black slave-dealers,
— of fair women in market pens, and of merry
children playing with human skulls.

And he says he will let well alone, — the external
enchantments are enough for him, he will not risk the
internal disenchantments.

No doubt, indeed he remarks, the stuffs are fine,
and fine are the mosques, — and the women's eyes are
finer still ; but these things he is not curious in.

There is something more to be said for the tobacco,
which is also fine ; but that can be had for the sending,
— so he sets no foot within the city of the Golden
Horn ; — he will investigate neither its charms nor its
chains, neither its beauty nor its bestiality. But lie
is in no hurry to leave these waters.

When the stores that can be got — or that cannot
be got — are laid in, or done without, — the Timon sails
out again, and rides quietly at anchor on these still
waves.

The gilded caiques glide here and there, the warm
wind fans the air ; — the sparkling sunshine is over all
save the precious head-piece of the master of the

Timon ; — an awning shelters this, and beneath it this
happy individual passes, it must be owned, many idle
hours ; — stretched at full length he takes his Kef, — it
is the glorified siesta of this Eastern land. Eyes half
closed, — soul and body in complete repose, — the senses
just awake enough to keep the rosewater rising and
falling in the amber-mouthed narghile.

Every day, however, the cutter is dispatched into
port.

Lorraine sends punctually for his letters, though
his correspondents are few.

That, in fact, does not seem to make much difference
in the diurnal desire of people to fathom the contents
of the post-bag.

One day, however, a letter does arrive — its date is
New York, and its weight double — due, it appears, to
the solidity of the sheet.

Lorraine does not open it — he turns it over andover
; — that too is a natural action. Though the solution
is in the hand, there is an indescribable pleasure
in guessing at an unknown writing — provided the letter
doesn't look like a bill or a begging one — and provided
you have faith in your destiny, and have not too many
irons in the fire.

It was in the midst of his Kef that it was delivered,

and Lorraine took it altogether in the spirit
of Kef ; — he placed it beside him, and mused drowsily
upon it, — till of a sudden he started up with a most
dangerous energy ; — such conduct in the midst of Kef
Would lead a native to look at once for your last
hour.

But Lorraine, made of much sterner stuff, survived
it, and seizing the letter cries out — " From Harry English,
I'll swear ! "

He did not swear falsely; — this double weighted
letter was from faithful Harry English.

Lorraine tears it open, — his hand positively trembles
with eagerness and suspense — trembles like a girl's.

The handwriting is round and clear ; he has only
to read it off.

Honoured Sir,
ewe

"We!" says Lorraine— " We ! " And he looks
about him ; — then he does the reasonable thing of
going on with the letter.

" We have said so often that we must write and
tell you all about it."

By all that's good," cries Lorraine. " They !

but let's go on."

Then he takes up Harry's tale, and does not break
it short again till he gets to the end of it.

You see, sir, it's all come out, as you said, and we
hire got married. It was a long time before I found

her, though, and when I did, the poor thing was as pale
and weak as a willow. It's a long story sir, and I can't
trouble you with it all. Of course, they took all her
money from her before she'd landed a month, — and
she was forced to go into service, first one place and
another and she got the fever — and got into the
hospital, and that's where I found her. I am ashamed
to say that all the time I kept well and hearty ; and
I grew quite stout, sir, to what I was, — and the air here,
which is sharp and hot by turns, browned me, so that
my poor girl didn't know me ; — and she thought I was
some charitable gentleman come to take pity on her,
and help her to go back to her mother. Well sir, I
won't go over it all, but when my poor dear knew who
it was, and that I'd been searching up and down for
her, for these two years, she put her poor thin arms
about my neck, and cried as if her dear heart would
break. But with me to take care of her, sir, she soon
got well ; and now, sir, she's handsomer than ever —
although I say it, as I suppose I shouldn't do, considering
that we're one now. We often talk of coming
back again to the old country, but I don't know how
it is, Myrtilla seems to find this place the best now,
now I'm with her, to make all right. And we get on
very well in the money way. You know, sir, I can turn
my hand to most things, and if you can do that, this
is a good place to be in. We've got one boy, sir, and
we hope you won't take it amiss that we've given him
your name, sir. He's a fine little fellow, sir, and very

like this clear mother. We often have a letter from
dear mother ; — and now she s£ijs she shall die happy.
Please accept, sir, of Myrtilla's duty and mine.
Your humble servants,
Harry and Myrtilla English.

To Sir Claude Lorraine, Baronet."

"Bravo! Harry, bravo ! " cries Lorraine. "What
a brick that fellow is ! "

After thus relieving his excited feelings, Lorraine
stops for a few minutes, to consider, — but not in the
spirit of Kef by any means. Then he brings his hand
down on the deck with such a hit, that it makes the
narghile jump again.

"Things are coming round again," he cries,
" coming round all right. This is step number one."

This was exactly what it was —

Step Number One.

Chapter XII.

WAE, Horrid WAE.

Tliougli still earth's guest, of quitting meditate,
When on some morning either soon or late,

The bare lone soul must all it hold forsake,
And its far flight to the veiled region take.

Another year, — and another.

In what other words can the history of a life be
written ? So they hurry on to swell the sum of the
past, — units in that mighty sum, smaller than the
smallest grain of the sands of the ocean, — yet all
numbered and taken account of.

This year, which has just been wiped out of Lorraine's
life, has been a unit in every sense of the word,
calm, easy, uneventful, — entirely to his mind.

He has still stuck to the Timon, his trusty friend ; —
if not of all his friends the trustiest, to him the most
serviceable.

Since that morning when Lorraine roused up so
rashly from his Kef under the white awning of her
whiter deck, — she — 'tis the only she for him — has borne
him safely and surely into many a strange port.

To-day she sails once more into the waters of the
Golden Horn — sails straight up to the centre bridge,
and straight into the midst of the steamers of all
nations, and ships of war of all nations too.

There is the same Babel of voices, the same hubbub
and crash ; — but no, not the same ; — to-day it must be
multiplied indefinitely. Thereunto must be added also
all sorts of extraneous matter, not indigenous to the
confusion, and a most pronounced military element.

Solemn human boulders, — if these men do not
know how to fight, they look as if they know how
to die.

The cutter of the Timon is lowered, and the master
of the Timon goes over the side, and taking his seat
in the cutter, points to the crowded shore.

He is going to land, then, upon this soil so blest
and so cursed. Has he got over his prejudices? By
no means, — but he bears private despatches to the
English ambassador, to be delivered by his own hand.

The Timon has out sailed herself in the effort to
reach this shore by this day.

The Straits take time, and naturally the Timon
could not make a short course across the Continent,
but she is here to her day.

"It's all right," as Lorraine cries out, when he
sights the two capes.

He lands in the midst of it all. Some formalities
must be gone through at the custom-house ; — they are
mere formalities in his case, and soon over, — the crowd '^'^

make way for him as if he were a mammal with a grand
pianoforte on his back. Their obsequiousness is not
altogether due to his imposing person, — it is rather to
that which covers it, — a British soldier's uniform ! — just
now the object of the warmest worship in these parts.
It was not without a sigh for the dear old pea-jacket, the
sou'wester, the loose collar, and all the flowing comfort
of his nautical manner of dress, that he has arrayed
himself to-day in all this new splendour — splendour of
gold, and splendour of silver, and splendour of yellow
and blue.

Nor was it the old splendour of days gone by, — he
has changed his colours, though not his flag. He has
grown glazier than ever ; — his mimic quarter-deck life —
twelve feet up and down the Timons narrow plank — has
added to his weight and to his inertiae ; — for his part,
he'd rather ride than walk, so he says, into a battle, or
down a lane, — it is an all-sufficient motive to Lorraine ;
and therefore to-day he stands in the most dashing-garb
of the most dashing horse regiment of the British
force.

His despatches delivered, he turns again on his
steps by the way he came, — by mosques and palaces,
by graveyards and broken ways, by fountains and
gutters, till he is in his cutter again, and steering full
for the Timon.

There he will await the bugle call, — not yet awhile
to sound, for it is smiling spring still, — smiling

indeed, — all nature smiles, as if no frown could ever
come again upon earth, or sky.

But as for Lorraine, — he will have no smiles but
those of these laughing waters ; — and he may well
be content, — for they sparkle and dance enough to
gladden and satisfy any heart.

For the rest, — he will have nothing to do with it, —
neither embassy balls nor embassy dinners, — nor the
sweet waters, with their human flower-beds.

The taste of it all will be bitter to him, — at least,
he believes so.

The Timon drops anchor again ; — she takes her
moorings between a huge barrack-like building and
a sort of fairy tower, which more remotely rises out of
the blue water, white as sno^^'.

It is a lighthouse, and bears a classic name.

The master of the Timon reverts to his Kef under
the awning. But it is not for long, — the hours oi. Kef
are numbered.

Soon arrives the Division, and this parts these two
friends, and converts the master of the Timon into a
cavalry captain.

So long as the life of the man whose fate and
fortunes ^\e may have resolved to record, keeps to
its private career, whether it abounds in shocks orin
repose, in bitter or in sweet, we can follow it in

peace ; — but when his chances take him into the
melee of nations, when to speak of him we must meddle
with history, it is a very different affair.

But your fictitious lives, some one will say, — you
are surely at liberty to take these where you like best.

No, — it is not so.

Even in these fictitious lives, there is an involuntary
agency, — a fate that drives along, — if not this
fictitious body, — your living brain.

All we can do now is to hurry, in the brief limits
of a page, through the grim years of that grim war,
in which Lorraine took his part, as he was sure to
take it — when in good earnest, — honestly and bravely,

With all the rest ; from that day when the very

first shot fired came from his own brigade ; past

that hour, when, with it, he bore his charmed life in
and out of that dreadful ride, — the ride for life and
death, and for the honour of the British soldier, who
goes where he is sent, — if it be to the cannon's mouth ;

down to that still more dreadful winter, — cold and

Ave and Aweary, which his stamina carried him through

Avhen others sickened and died ; and outward still,

to the moment Avhen, a volunteer for the Sedan, he
stands in the pitchy darkness, made light by the fires
of bursting cannon and blazing barriers, — in the midst
of shot and shell, and of a fiendish struggle — hand
to hand, bayonet to bayonet, — men dashing out each
other's brains, — a hellish uproar of yells and rage,
and anguish and frantic curses !

Thus closed in, lie sees before him a man fall, —
and straight upon him set a dozen bayonets. The
man is not wounded, he has but stumbled, so he
thinks ; — therefore he lives, — and he has some one to
live for — is Lorraine's answering" tliou^'ht.

And then he does what has often been done
before. He leaps into the middle of the bayonets;
two men he knocks over with his spring, — he fells
the third with his sword, the fourth lifts his arm fora
stab, — but the cannon blaze is gone, and under the
cover of the kind darkness, Lorraine drags his man
away.

The little Timoii has not been idle. Lorraine has
the money, if he can only know what to do with it,
and now it came handy. He sets up a little hospital
just for one or two, on board the little craft ; he appoints
his surgeon, and has his infirmary, everything
in proper rule ; — and not one, and not two lives only,,
have looked up again to hope and health under her
green pennant.

This is what has been going on all through the
dreary winter in the little Timon ; — and now, as a
natural step, he sends under safe charge the man he
has rescued from the bayonets to the same sanatorium,
not as whole as he had hoped, — one fatal thrust had
struck before his saving leap.

But for himself, Lorraine must stay by this work.

The city has fallen, — but the work is not over; — and
not until the dreary winter is past and gone, — not
until the earth and sky smile again in the sweet days
of spring, — not till then does Lorraine step on board
the Timoii.

But many are the inquiries he makes after the
rescued life. It does not make progress ; — the surgeon
shakes his head.

And yet," says he, " I do all I can."

Of course you do," replies Lorraine. " It's an odd
thing you can't find out who he is."

He's so reserved," says the surgeon.

The moment at last comes for Lorraine to find this
matter out for himself. Free again !

Ah ! words could never express the sense of infinite
relief which pervades him, mind and body, as he takes
his seat in the cutter, and once more steps on to the
deck of the little Timon.

The gentleman would like to see you, sir," says
the mate, " when it's convenient."

I'll be down directly," answers Lorraine. " But
tell him to keep himself quiet; — there must be no
excitement."

Lorraine is quoting from the surgeon, but it's a
word for himself as well as for the patient.

His dread of a scene is as great as ever; — it is
natural that a man should be a little warm when
thanking another for his life, but he wishes it were over.

"The gentleman seems sinking," says the mate
again. " There's a great change in him."

Lorraine does not wait for the third summons ; — he
hurries down to the cabin.

Propped up by pillows, and white as the sheet that
covers him, lies the wounded man, — a gaunt, haggard,
lifeless face, worn with loss of blood and pain ; only
the eyes seem still to be alive, — large, kind, brotherly
eyes — yet with a sorrow in them, — eyes that would
befit a Christian martyr on the verge of his willing
martyrdom.

Lorraine is struck with pity, — all sorts of piteous
sights have met his eyes during these grim years ; —
but this, the last example of their horror, touches him
as keenly as if it had been the first. And this man
is more to him than another, — he seems to belong to
him, — did he not save his life ? — yes, at the risk of his
own ; — and now he could have wept to see that this risk
has been all in vain.

Something he murmurs, he knows not what; — he
goes up to the couch, — what of a sudden can the lips
of a stranger find to say to a dying man ?

With an effort the large thin hand is held out to him,
and the pale lips move, but the voice will not come.

"I had hoped to hare found you better," says
Lorraine, — and he presses his hand.

The pale lips move again. " Lorraine, Claude
Lorraine, — thank God, I have lived — till now to thank
you — to thank you."

Lorraine stands bewildered. Who is this that calls
him Claude Lorraine ? Something speaks to him in
this voice — in those eyes ; — what is it ? — whose are
those eyes ? — what voice is this, that seems to come
to him from the very back of his life ?

Who — who are you ? " he says. • He represses
Avitli violence the agitation which has seized upon
him; — he is in terror lest a word from him should
hasten by a moment the end — so near — so very near.

Then he looks again into the face, — it might have
been young six months ago ; but — now — what a wreck
it all was !

Who are you ? " Again he says the word.

But the white lids have dropt over those strangely
kind eyes, — and the man has fainted.

Now the surgeon is summoned.

"Better retire, Sir Claude, for to-night; this has
been too much for him."

Is he — is he ? " Lorraine cannot utter that

word which in every language has the ring of a knell
even to its sound.

No," said the surgeon, quietly ; " he is not dead, —
he will not die yet ; leave him to me."

Lorraine's first sentence the following day was an
inquiry for the wounded man below.

He has slept better than he has done for many
weeks, — and this morning he has revived a good
deal."

He will recover," cries Lorraine.

The surgeon shakes his head. "That," says he,
is impossible."

In an hour Lorraine is again by the sick couch.

The surgeon is right, the man has much revived,
he can converse with a few words now. As he lies
there his eyes rest upon Lorraine.

You do not know me," says he ; " and yet I should
have known you, Lorraine."

Have known — me ! " stammers Lorraine.

Yes ; you are little changed to my eyes."

Again the voice rings in his ears, like a distant
bell, and the eyes chain him.

You will tell me, then ; " but he breaks off, — a
sudden light is thrown in.

Good God ! " he cries ; — " it is Aboyne."

Yes ; it was Arthur Aboyne.

This man, who stood second in his antagonisms, —
for whom he has felt a sort of nameless scorn all his
life, — lies before him there, on his bed of death. — He
stands beside him, hand in hand ; he has risked his own
life to save his, — his eyes are wet with pity for him.

It is a very sad step — very sad ;but still it is —
Step Number Two.

Soon the Timoii weighs anchor and is off, sailing
away for ever from the Golden Horn.

VOL. III. M

The wind is up, and she skims the transparent
waters like a bird.

To-day they are peopled more thickly than ever.
Frigates of all nations, and trophies, and steamers,
and a huge British three-decker, not yet relegated into
the lumber of the past ; — and antique feluccas of
classic build ; — and caiques light as air, shooting
here and there, like watery meteors ; — and behind, in
the silvery mist of the morning, gleams the golden
city.

The white mosques and variegated minarets, the
scarlet kiosks and gilded palaces, and the deep verdure
of the thick massed foliage, are all dissolving away into
the distance like a rainbow of many colours, — or like a
fantastic dream, with a wild scare in the middle of it.

Nothing of all this life and motion remains with
the Timon ; — she has outstripped the shipping, and
now for all company she has only the albatross and
the sea-gull, that come and go in hovering flights, and
flit around her bows and her masts, like the disembodied
spirits of the dead hecatombs left behind.

With the next morning, they are again in the
midst of the bright things of the land. They are
cruising through the islands, — green spots of loveliness
scattered upon the blue sea.

Skiffs and boats again shoot here and everywhere,

and there is again the stir of human life. There
is still the turban and the heavy gait, still the signs of
the alien conqueror ; — but there is also the scarlet cap)
and the tunic, and the unconquerable air, the grace
and the noble brows of a people, that tyranny cannot
debase.

To the surprise of the surgeon, — and to the great
content of Lorraine and of the little crew, the poor
patient whose condition engrossed all their thoughts,
began perceptibly to revive.

The face seemed to draw together again, and to
look less forlornly hollow, — so it seemed to Lorraine's
eyes, but it might have been that his eyes had become
accustomed to the grievous sight.

It is this sea voyage," said the surgeon ; " it can
do wonders, — at least for a time."

So also can the sympathizing cheer of a light and
friendly heart.

Every day Lorraine said, " You look better," and
'' You look better."

And again, when Aboyne would shake his head
sadly, Lorraine would say, " That's not fair now,
Arthur" — they had got to Claude and Arthur again
" What's the use of it all, if you won't help us a
little?"

I have nothing to live for," sighs Aboyne.

And Lorraine will reply. " Try and live, — try and
live ; — there's plenty for all of ns to live for."

And so by degrees the blessed infection worked, —
and Aboyne caught some of the cheer of his friend.
And then the doctor gave leave, and the awning Alas
again hoisted over the deck, and under it lay a pallid
face, and a long and broken body, — very different
indeed to the robust and lazy being who took his Kef
beneath it a year ago, — all the difference indeed between
Prince Fortune and Prince Fatal !

They were just through the Straits. The skie
were perfect, — so too was the sea, — so too were the soft
airs that stirred between the two.

It was all as near to the mortal picture of the
Heavenly Land as ever by mortal painted. That
Heavenly Land — which is not of this world, — a land
which has nothing to do with earthly things, — and
which a blue sea and a blue sky may stand for, as well
as anything else.

Aboyne, in a sitting position, is reclining under the
a^Miing against the pillows, — and is curiously watching
Lorraine's performances with his narghile. The doctor
is in the stern-sheet, fishing for the small fry that dart
about just under the glassy wave, — an occupation
which, though not blessed with much success, is still
a God-send for his empty hands.

It's pleasant, I suppose," says Aboyne, his eyes
still on the smoking machine.

Pleasant enough," replies Lorraine ; " but you

require certain things about you, — quiet, for instance,
and sunshine, and complete repose. When we get into
the Bay, I know I shall give it up in disgust."

It looks pleasant," repeats Aboyne, still with his
eyes on the narghile.

I tell you what it is, — you shall try it one of these
days, Arthur ; you breathe a wonderful deal stronger
than you did, — and it's not fatiguing ; — trust its headman
for that ! Over there," nodding eastward, "they
don't like trouble." Then he added, " I had an idea
myself that it might be good for you. I asked the
doctor about it yesterday, but the worst of him is he's
such a negative fellow."

"He knows more about it probably," replies
Aboyne, languidly.

About what ? " says Lorraine, sharply. Nothing
gave him now a quicker sensation, sometimes of displeasure,
sometimes of alarm, than if any one threw a
doubt upon Aboyne's better condition.

About my breathing," is the answer.

Now, why will you try to make everything in
vain ? " cries Lorraine.

Why then in vain ? " says Aboyne.

You know," says Lorraine, with some reproach
in his eyes, " how much depends now upon your
spirits."

Am I low-spirited, Claude ? I think notes—" All
things considered," he could have added.

And if ever anything Alas not in vain, — it is " —

Aboyne's voice falters — " it is your heroic action, and
your generous friendship for me."

Nonsense," says Lorraine ; — " let's talk of something
else."

No, Claude, it is good to think of these things.
You have not only saved my life, you have taught me
to desire to keep it. There is little chance of this,"
says he, smiling sadly ; " but still, all you have done
will not have been in vain, — and you have given me
the happiest hours of my life."

Aboyne holds out his hand, and Lorraine clasps it
in both of his.

Such hours," says Aboyne, " are worth more than
learning or ambition."

Then he pauses, — the large brotherly eyes fall full
on Lorraine's.

Or woman's love," he sighs.

Or woman's love ! " cries Lorraine, with all his
heart in his voice.

Yes, yes, worth a million times more, — a million
times more ! "

The brotherly eyes still meet his, — but the thoughts
beneath them are With one fair face : — and then all the
soul goes back to Lorraine, and the eyes speak as
plainly as eyes ever spoke, and they say —

You, too, have suffered ! "

The bad spirits are at work again with their vile
equivoque, — and Lorraine must again stand by and see
himself taken for whiter than he is ; — for he reads those

eyes ! Unless he were blind or clipped in Lethe, how
could he fail to read them ?

It is too much for him, this false part, — and with
Aboyne, too.

Arthur," he says, " you are mistaken, — the fault
was not on her side."

A flush of crimson mounts to the thin cheek, and
as quickly fades, leaving face and lips white as death ;
and one by one the large drops of a great agony come
out upon the pallid brow, and stand like summer dew
upon the flower. But Lorraine sees nothing of it ; — his
effort to do justice to the absent has plunged him also
into discomposure. All this has been so long dead
and buried, that even the ghost of it is too substantial
a remembrance. He leans forward, and rests his
elbows on his knees, and his head on his hands. Buta
quicker eye than his is on the patient.

It is the doctor, his fishing over, who comes
brusquely up.

You here ? " he says, " when you ought to have
been below an hour ago. And what's this, too ? What
have you been about ? How's this ? " And he lays
his finger lightly upon Aboyne's moist brow.

Some word he tries to utter in reply.

"Don't speak," says the doctor. "You've been
talking too much already. Come, Sir Claude, we must
get our patient to bed at once."

Lorraine starts up from his attitude.

"' What a fool I was," he says, " to let you stay
talking up here ! "

But Aboyne is almost beyond hearing. The doctor
has called his two aids, the mate and a sailor, and they
are moving the patient out of harm's way as fast as is
allowable to him.

But the harm is done.

That justice to the absent — has taken from him the
only ray of comfort that his heart has fed on for many
a year .

Lorraine's discomposure did not entirely depart,
nor was he easy in his mind about Aboyne.

He sent one message after another. At last the
doctor, who had his own shrewd way of managing-things,
said, " Tell Sir Claude, that some sound sleep
to-night will, I hope, put things where they were."

There was immense relief in the message ; and
Lorraine let the ghosts of the past go quickly back to
their graves, and forgot his discomposure in this release
from the anxious fear of the moment.

But," thinks he, " we'll not run any more of these
rigs ! It comes of that fellow's confounded fishing.
Why didn't he come and see about Arthur before ? "

That night, when all but the watch slept, Lorraine
walked the deck. He walked it in all ease, — he had long-gone
back to the pea-jacket and sou'wester, to the loose
tie and flowing collar. Up and down he takes his solitary
tread ; — and yet he is not alone. There is an inexpressible

companionship in the measured plunge of
the vessel's bows into the gurgling waves, — as she
leaves forward before the wind. This lullaby of the
sea has no music in it, — it has only a voice — a voice
that says, like the solemn pendulum of time, " Go
forward ! go forward ! "

The stars are overhead, in the countless millions of
these marvellous skies. The Milky Way in clear outline,
divides the glittering throng. There is no moon,
but these myriad fires light up the dusky wave.

There is the spell of a triumphant solitude, as
the lonely vessel bounds over the lonely sea, under
the silent stars. Lorraine feels it in his own way.

"There is no life like it," thinks he. "No lifelike
it — never alone — and always alone, — that's the
beauty of it ! "

And then, with a quick transition, his thoughts goto
Aboyne.

God grant that poor fellow may be better tomorrow
! I shall miss him, whenever we part. He's the
best companion to my taste I've had for many a long
day — strange, that it should take half a lifetime to get
to the bottom of the good that's in a man ! "

But Lorraine, with just the present before him, has
forgotten that with half the world between them, and
a whole world of prejudices, — he had not been in a
position to get to the bottom of the good that was
in Arthur Aboyne.

Lorraine got becalmed with his midnight walk
and it was full eight o'clock before he came on deck
next day. He was met by the doctor. His face was
a little grave.

He is gone," said he. " I did not call you, for he
was not conscious."

Dead ! Don't say he's dead ! " cries Lorraine.

Yes," says the doctor, — " internal bleeding. I
knew it must come, — and he talked too much yesterday."


The doctor's voice was without pathos. He was a
thoroughly skilful man, and thoroughly devoted ; — ashe
said, " he had done all he could ; " — but he had seen
too many " last moments " in the course of the years
gone by to be affected by this one. He would have
been as glad as the rest if his patient could have recovered,
— but he knew he couldn't, — and now he's
proved to be right.

It is an hour before the sun goes down. The ship is
brought to in the golden path. All hands are calledon
deck, and then they Avrap him in the British flag,
and they lower the green pennant half-mast high, and
with reverent hands and uncovered heads, and some
eyes wet with tears, they commit his body to the deep.

I Head A Voice from Heaven, saying unto me
Write — From henceforth blessed are the
Dead which die in the Lord : even so saith the
Spirit : — for they rest from their Labours.

All through the night the sublime Hymn of Hope
sounds in Lorraine's ears. The doctor read the Service,
and he read it well.

He suffered much," said the doctor, as next day
they paced the deck together. " I took to him from
the first, — he had the most benevolent eyes — and voice
too ; — the fellows aft would do anything for him."

Ah ! " cries Lorraine. " He'll be blest, — no fear
of that ! And his troubles are over ! " And then he
gives a great sigh.

And yet," he cries again, " I would have given
the world to save him, — but it was all in vain ! "

So his mind confuses this release from mortal
trouble, and this vanity of human effort.

That night they were in the Bay. There was no
need to take the bearings — the Storm-House of the
Ocean spoke for itself.

The wind grew to a hurricane and the sea ran
mountains high, and the Timon looked like a fly in
the depths of each yawning gulf. If it was not a
matter of life and death, it was at least a critical
moment. The masts were reefed bare — with only the
jib set — closed ports, and hatches tightly screwed
down, and for safety they must steer wide of their
course.

The Timon is trimmed to an inch, — she dashes
along before the wind as steady as a top.

The darkness is pitchy, and the decks are swimming,

and in the midst of it all, a man is washed
overboard. It was his shipmate who felt him go.
They could see and hear the man, as little as they
could help him !

But you must be in it before you can know what
it is, — before you can understand these perils of the
deep, which the witty Dorset improvised his dashing
song upon, in the days when come what may — all the
world was merry !

These perils of the deep! — they remain for us
amongst the things that eye cannot picture — nor pen
describe. Amongst those things that suffer no change
the same yesterday, to-day, and tomorrow. The
grandest type of the Divinity. No wonder that the
sailor is of all men most moved to belief.

It is astonishing the sort of breathless pause which
succeeds to a howling storm, — whether it comes of
contrast, or whether this calm is more absolute than
any other, it is hard to say.

To use a ship-board phrase, no one had turned in
during this night of jeopardy ; — and when the morning
dawned, they looked with a touch of passing awe at
each other's washed-out figures and faces.

Such a night ! — and it was icy cold, too, after the
late soft heats ; it was enough to blanch the ruddiest
cheek for the hour.

This grey morning light reveals to them that thej^
have had companions in the storm, — companions who
have met with a more disastrous fate. As they sail on,
they come upon much ship-gear, — spars and broken
wood, and floating barrels, — a rich harvest of flotsam
and jetsam if the coast and the reapers were near.

There is not a wave to be seen. The sea has
swallowed up its prey, and now, like an angry child,
its strength exhausted, there remains only the sob
and the swell of the heaving bosom.

We begin to find our legs again," says the doctor,
taking a trial stride past Lorraine.

Lorraine says, " Yes ; " but he speaks with an inattentive
eye, looking vaguely about him. He finds his
legs better than some other things which he misses this
morning ; — and the experience of the last night has not
been exactly of the best sort to set him right again.
He was still in the maze of it all, too. •

He had often come in for bad weather, and he had
called it a jolly storm, and he had laughed with
pleasure as as he stood buffeted about by it. There
is no saying, if it had not surprised him down at zero.

but that lie might have laughed last night, — at the
mad weather at least.

But still, it was a new experience, — his jolly storms
were but the tempest in the duck-pond to the convulsive
throes which the Timon that night had lived
through. The little Timon ; — where Alas the little craft
that had behaved better than she had done ?

And yet the ties were giving way; — there was a
screw loose somewhere.

It's all for the best," says the doctor again.
What should Ave have done With that poor felloAA^ last
night?"

Ah ! What should Ave have done ? " echoes
Lorraine.

Then he betakes himself to the little poop. He
leans upon his elbows over the guuAvale. It is a
favourite post, — a familiar attitude.

Many an hour has he so stood, revelling in this Avide
ocean. Yesterday it Alas the dear home of his choice,
to-day it is only a great Watery grave.

When the sea shall give up her dead ! " he murmurs
; — " Avhen the sea shall give up her dead ! "

CHAPTEK XIII.

HIS NAME IS UP I — HE MAY GO TO BED.

"What your ancestry, — God wot !
This, I say, concerns you not ;
Nor your merits, for it's plain
Meritorious acts are vain
Fame and fortune to attain.
Withers' words of wisdom were —
I nor lack, nor have, nor care ! "
You with much security
May say likewise — if you see,
Somewhere in your history,
In the now or in the then.
Fortune's bird — the snow-white hen !

^* England, — with all thy faults, I love thee still ! "

It is a terribly hackneyed phrase ; — and yet, to argue
from generalities, we may fairly assume that the more
hackneyed the sentiment, the more truth is at the
bottom of it. And it is a fact past denying that there
is something in the white cliffs, which stirs an Englishman's
heart ! Something in them which makes him —
for the time — glad to see them again.

He may behold behind them toil and trouble; —
but this has no effect on the nearer prospect.

He may have come from lands which his soul loves

which his heart yearns after. He may have left
behind in them the inspiration of his powers, and,
what is more, the life-springs of his existence — the
very breath of his nostrils ; — but still, his heart bounds
to the white cliffs of his native land. It smiles to
his eyes as he draws near to its shores. Let it be in
the first glow of a June dawn, — it will intensify the
feeling. Before him rises the old castle, with its
green frowns ; — below it, the old city, shut in between
the old cliffs, — their heads in the open sky, their feet
in the grey, green sea, their sides radiant with their
own white hue, and the young beauty of the day.

Nor is this grey, green sea a mean element in the
home picture, — with its spirited contrast to the softer
colourings of the lands, and seas he has left behind
him.

In the case of Lorraine however, he did not take
his first step on British soil with such harmonious
surroundings ; — it was in the fog and draggle, the
smoke and heavy traffic of the London Docks ; for,
having arrived in his own ship, he had to take her to
her own place, — at least he preferred doing so.

Let us suppose a fortnight to have passed over
since his arrival, and the Timon to be safely moored
alongside one of the smaller wharves down the river.

It has been a busy week for Lorraine. He still
makes the Timon his head-quarters, but his days have
been spent, for the most part, on shore, — monopolized

by a variety of things, — pleasant things, all of them.
In the great city he has found much to hear, much
to say, and many things to begin again. And, when
did Fortune ever fail him ? He has arrived in the
nick of time, to receive in person his allotted honour,
and to come in, with the rest of the picked band of
war heroes, for his decoration, at the gracious hands
of his Sovereign, — and for the admiring eyes and
tongues of a smiling and sympathizing mass of
observers.

It was an august and moving ceremonial — somewhat
sad, and somewhat solemn — and Lorraine forgot,
in the mixed feelings it called up, to find the conspicuous
part he had to play in it, either a tax or a
bore ! Like the great actors on the mimic stage, he
was too much carried away by his part, to have any
thought for the crowd of lookers-on. Yet, if he had
seen^a little further into this emotional gathering,
there was a pair of glistening blue eyes on the outskirts,
which followed his every movement, and which,
had they met his, might have stirred a tender chord
in his heart ; — might have, — or might not have ; — who
can say ?

These things gone through, Lorraine proceeds to
another personal matter, — purely personal this time ;
namely, the winding-up of his actual relations with the
little Timon. It is a little hard, perhaps, to have to
say it, but it cannot be denied that Lorraine sets himself
to this business without regret, and contemplates
VOL. III. N

his final step off her white decks, without so much asa
sigh.

If a third party coukl have spoken in the confidence
of both, the remark woukl probably have been
that the Timons part in Lorraine's life was pretty well
played out. She had been to him all that her consoling
sex can be, of cheer and charm and companionship,
but the tie was loosened. Happily for him, ashe
takes such ties, — with this " she " — the tie could be
loosened ; — whether he was likely to fall in with that
other hitherto impossible she, who would take her
place, — this Lorraine was not likely to trouble himself
about one way or another.

He had never been in the habit of this sort of
forecasting. In fact, he was not given to forecasting of
any sort ; — he Avould tell you that in his opinion it was
an idle waste of time, — and probably he would add, that
in his experience, you never know what's coming next.

Generalities — yes ; — they are quite Lorraine's affair.
It is his way of conversing, — not, perhaps, the most
brilliant, but it does not provoke contradiction.

Lorraine had lost no time in getting to England.

After that day of doom and dread in mid Atlantic,
when the awful veil was lifted for him, just so far as to
bewilder with its darkness and its doubts, — he felt no
inclination to linger on his course.

Once again the winds grew soft, and the suns were
bright, — and the moon's light silvered the water ; but

not once did lie think as in days gone by of laying
to, and lowering the little cutter, and enjoying
the delights of a row upon this shoreless sea ; — the
inspiration was past !

But what Lorraine did do — ^^■as to make straight
for his port, and not to slacken sail till he found himself
off the Thames.

Fine weather, in fact, they had to the end ; — but it
had not been a cheerful cruise.

It was that vacant couch which depressed him ; — he
could never get away from it.

All through the day it stared at him with such a
blank appeal ; — but in the half lights, or by the
flickering of the swinging lamp, he could fancy its
empty space shaped itself into a semblance of its
patient burden.

Then once more he seemed to see the haggard face,
and the gaunt and broken form, — and the benevolent
eyes, looking at him as through a glass darkly.

But it is hard upon the little Timor, that, because
of this vacant couch, and because of that wreck-strewn
ocean, and because of the inscrutable wheels upon
which mien's lives do move, Lorraine should turn his
back upon her to-day without regret.

Yet — if she can avail herself of it there remains
to her a quiet consolation.

And she is so near to a thing of life, that for the
moment we may well suppose her a little further

endowed; — and with this consolation in view, let us-believe
that she sees her master depart, and her green
pennant hauled down, with the modest conviction that
she has done her work, — and done it well — done it so
well, in her master's interests, that there is nothing left
for her to do now, but to pass him on to the next stage
of this career, for which she has so well prepared him.

On Lorraine's side, there may be some inconstancy
it is human nature — but he has done with the
capricious cynicism, born of an isolated lot. He takes
.no longer for his motto the burden of that jolly miller's
song, who lived by the river Dee.

But still, he is Claude Lorraine, himself and no
other,— and if he could bring himself to speak upon
the sorest sorrow of his soul, he would still tell you
that in all the world he has had but one friend — one
friend, whose image, ever at his heart's recall, lies
embalmed in the starlit vaults of memory.

He is still Claude Lorraine, a man incapable of
cherishing an unappeased regret for a woman, — however
brave and true and tender, — however gentle and innocent
and devoted. But there is nothing left in him
of that inert disgust at the existing state of things,
which once ruled his words and ways.

He steps forward to-day with a reasonable content,
and with things tangible about him, — if not with a
goal, at least with something right and left to turn to.

He is no longer the lay figure in his profession.
That lazy devil ! — which he had startled Lady Laure's

innocent ears \Yith, in the old clays of his enchantments,
has been finally exorcised, and by the very means he
put up his prayer for.

And the old isolation, which was half boast, half
bugbear, — that, also, is modified.

Far from him, indeed, has it been to form new friendships,
— but there are friends and friends, and there are
those that he neither can nor will shut out of his life.

There are the comrades with whom he has shared
the perils and privations of this grim war, which, God
be praised, with its muddle and mire, its blood and
misery, and its scant glory, is over at last ! and there
is the poor brotherly eyed ghost of the little Timon,
whose life he saved in vain ! — ^\ho had pointed to a few
brief hours and called them " happiest " ! — who had
sighed out, " Not in vain," with the ring in his voice
of the near death-note echoing back to him — " in vain,
in vain ! "

Yes — in vain for this poor ghost, but not for
Lorraine, to him there remains a most undoubted
Not in vain." Henceforth he will go up and down
in the company of an heroic deed, — upon his breast he
will bear the cross For Valour ! — and on its bar will
be read the day in which he saved this poor ghost's
life — in vain — and not in vain !

The fulness of years is not to the strongest, —
the fulness of success is not to the worthiest ; — The
survival of the fittest is the only law we know of.
Alas ! poor ghost ! Quarta Luna nati.

CHAPTER XIV.

Helps ! JE Debris LE HAIR ! "

'Tis hate, alas ! I ought to feel.
Such sorrow has he caused my heart.
So full of tears and wounding smart.
So desolate, so slow to heal.
'Tis hate, alas ! I ought to feel.

In the kiss claimed on this return,
When all his soul came back to me,
My own, — which fain would hidden be,
Saw how his love began to burn
In the kiss claimed at his return.

He says we ne'er shall part again !
What fear is mingled with delight !
Fate wills our hearts should reunite, —
To struggle further is in vain,
He says we ne'er shall part again !

After the French.

It was in this exhilarating company — i.e. of the aforesaid
heroic deed — that Lorraine stept off the Timon, —
walking briskly away, or rather getting quickly into
the cab that Alas waiting for him by a kerbstone othe
Docks, — with the words, " Drive fast."

It was latish in the evening ; — as yet he had not
domiciled himself on shore.

He was bound for a West End reception — a Ministerial
reception, — not a thing for him just now conveniently
to refuse, even if he wished to do so ; — but he
had no desire to avoid it. On the contrary, he looked
forward to some pleasant meetings this evening with
old acquaintances.

It is a sufficiently dreary drive east to west. The
evening is rainy and dark, and the wind westerly, and
the showers drive due east, — so the drop glasses of the
hansom must be let down, which does not add to the
cheerfulness of the situation.

The street lamps flicker and fade as the cab threads
in and out — one street after another, in an endless sort
of way, wheels and windows shaking and rattling with
a correspondingly ceaseless monotony.

Lorraine starts with plenty in his mind, — and he
turns it over and over ; — but gradually the roll and the
din and the flicker are too much for him, and he falls
into a sleep-and-awake sort of lethargy, till he is
aroused, still only semi-conscious, in the middle of a
regular hullabaloo.

The rain falls thicker than ever, and he peers
through the dripping glasses into the stark look-out,
with the vaguest ideas as to where he is, where he is
going, where he is come from, — and with the remnants
of the feeling still upon him, that as he was moving
so he would move on for ever.

Let any one try it, and see, if on a night like this,
a two hours' solitary course through London streets, ina

London cab, does not land him at his destination in
much the same condition.

But Lorraine has not reached his destination.

The street police are bawling to his cabby to fall
into line, and this individual, having an ardent mind
in a drenched body, is howling back imprecations at
the strong hand of this pull-up.

There are still twenty vehicles and more ahead, —
plenty of time for Lorraine to wake up and be himself
again, — and for cabby to meditate upon the vanity of
slanging the police.

But everything comes to an end. Lorraine hears
the report of the whip on the roof, — feels the swing of
cabby, still indignant, as he leaps to the ground, — and
himself prepares, with complete self-possession, so to
descend as to save his head, and to keep his epaulettes
clear of the muddy wheels.

The house he has drawn up before has nothing of
the imposing in it. It stands alone, inside a pali-saying
a little withdrawn from the great thoroughfare
in which it is placed ; — a long frontage, of which the
first floor windows, neither large nor lofty, lighted
to-night from end to end, just reveal, between the
festooned curtains, the crowded figures moving to
and fro.

In those days small groups of gay flower-pots were
to be seen in the alcoves of the palpitating flanking
the gates ;— this bright and simple adornment gave a
refined home-ness to the exterior, — which was a good

conductor to the cultivated and graceful ease that
ruled the interior.

Lorraine follows up the announcement of his name.
And many turn to look, as he bears his broad
shoulders and his badge — For Valour, on his breast,
into the room.

There is no lack of stars and orders in this august
assembly, — the rooms are positively dazzling with them ;
but this badge For Valour, a simple thing to look at,
to-night is the mark to attract all eyes.

Amongst other things, it is, in the way of honourable
decorations, the latest, and the newest.

Lorraine has not far to make his way through the
groups about the doorway, to find the hostess of these
salons.

Salons they are ! — or rather, a salon it is, in the
most cultivated sense of that word, — the nearest
approach in the English metropolis to its old Paris
prototypes.

She meets him with something more than the
gracious welcome accorded to all arriving guests. He
is one of the expected lions of the evening ; — but much
more than this, is the ancient kinship between their
families which had made this house familiar to him
during his one brief London season.

Ah, Sir Claude ! " says she ; " you have come

back to us at last ! Plow many years is it since you
disappeared ? "

And she gives him a soft questioning look,
It is hard to count up time," says he, with an inclination
of his head, and a smile to the lady, — " when
there is nothing before us to mark its flight ! "

The lady laughs, and says, " You have been
away to some purpose, I see ! You have learnt to pay
us compliments at last ! "

It has been a brilliant evening, — but the rooms are
now beginning to thin; the most notable personages
have taken their departure, and Lorraine is thinking
of following their example, — when his attention is
caught by the statuesque figure of a woman some yards
to the right of him, — standing alone, — dressed in flowing
folds of sable gauze, — with gently folded arms, and
a grave sweet face, — a face of regal beauty, — a matchless
serenity on the brow, — and with her large quiet
eyes fixed full upon him.

He returns the look with the same abstracted air,
it might be, in very fact, two statues gazing at each
other, — so absent is all expression of admiration,
curiosity, or any human feeling.

Then, — she always, with the same sweet tranquil
gravity, moves away into a small boudoir behind her.

Lorraine moves too, — and comes right against a

man, who had joined one of the knots of talkers, of
which Lorraine had played the part chiefly of listener,
earlier in the evening.

It is a sufficient excuse, however, for addressing this
stranger.

*• Can you tell me," says he, " who is that destine
woman standing alone in that little
room there ? " — and he points to the boudoir.

Something begins to stir within him, and prompts
the sudden question.

Don't you know her ? " says the man. " She is the
most remarkable woman here this evening, — and she
has the most remarkable fortune, too. — She is Lady
Laure Lucie, a most singular person ; — you must have
heard of her ! — extremely handsome, as you see, — with
enormous wealth, too, and yet never appears except in
these dark weeds : — Queen of the Night ! Queen of the
Night ! But not with her stars ! — not a jewel — not an
ornament ! — only on one finger an old seal ring. A
countess, too, in her own right, — and yet doesn't assume
the title ; — and yet she's not mad, — not moody enough
for that ! — but odd — remarkably odd !

As to the men, — they're afraid, they say, to go near
her, — at least with any request of more importance
than, * How do you do ? ' She is one of those unapproachable
calm women, who inspire us men with the
most terror."

And the man, who is about up to Lorraine's elbow
looks up at him with a chuckle at his joke.

But here lie is checked, in the midst of his flow of
communication, — for the ears it is intended for, seem
sealed.

Half turned from him, motionless and without
speech, Lorraine stands as if in a trance, his eyes
fastened upon the boudoir and its occupant.

You find it remarkable," says the man.

But his words still excite no reply.

He hunches up his shoulders and his eyebrows, —
draws down the corners of his mouth, and turns on his
heel.

Crossing his path he sees a vieux militaire of his
acquaintance, and accosts him with —

You'll hardly believe it, general, but I've suddenly
developed something of the mesmerist in me.
It's extremely alarming. I wouldn't if I knew it
touch that sort of thing with my little finger, — nor
with a pair of tongs either ! "

Very incredible indeed ! " says the general, beginning
to move off, — but a finger is laid on his
arm.

Stop, let me put you in possession of the facts. I
was talking just now to a tall man in uniform. I don't
know his face or his name. I was chatting away to
him the merest gossip, when all of a sudden I perceived
that he was not attending to me, — he didn't
seem to hear a word I said, — his eyes were fixed — his
tongue tied — body and arms stiff" — and the gossip-longer
dropped his own with a jerk — " in fact, rigid,

sir, rigid ! I positively trembled with apjn'elierision
at the obscure cause of this phenomenon."

The general smiles.

*•' Ah ! I see yoii are incredulous. However, you
can judge for yourself. Just cast your eyes behind mei
won't look that way again myself — close by a small
plaster cast of a fawn and Bacchus."

The general's eyes follow the directions.

Your bird is flown," says he.

"Oh, you're not looking in the right direction —
the man's big enough to be seen, — he's six feet, if he is
an inch."

"Look for yourself," rejoins the general. "You
may venture — you'll mesmerize nothing but Bacchus
and his fawn."

But stop," says the general quickly, with a laugh.
I suspect I see your mesmeric subject, with his back
to us, talking to Lady Laure Lucie."

Bless me ! So it is ! What can he have to say to
her? Five minutes ago he didn't know her name!
Clearly he had never set eyes on her before ! "

"Well," says the general, "they seem to have
plenty to say to each other now ! I have been observing
them all the time you have been talking, and I
think I saw him take her hand in his."

The gossip is struck dumb ; his eyes devour the
scene.

I never saw Lady Laure Lucie vouchsafe so long
a tete-astute to any man before," remarks the general,
himself a little taken by surprise.

But the gossip-monger is not to be foiled ; lie awakes
with a start to the true situation.

"I'll tell you what it is," says he, lowering his
voice. " It's her fortune he's after ; — I was telling him
how tremendous it was."

That won't do ! " says the general. " Now I see
who it is ; — it's Sir Claude Lorraine, — he's got fortune
enough for himself and for you and me too ! "

The gossip-monger shakes his head.

Sir Claude Lorraine," repeats he. " Well, I tell
you, it's her fortune he's after! those Irishmen are
such fortune-hunters ! "

The gossip-monger has made up for his former
reticence in the matter of looking behind him; — he
has never taken his eyes off the couple.

"He's a remarkably fine-looking fellow," says he.
I shouldn't be surprised if he Averse to be the right
man at last ! "

He's quite one of the best men we've turned out
in the Avar, I can tell you," says the general ; — " brave
as a lion. He's got the ncAv cross ; and if there Averse
any other orders of merit for saving life, he deserves
them, — for the beds he set up on board his yacht
pulled many a poor fellow through Who must have
died otherwise."

Ah," says the gossip-monger, " do you knoAv
where he is to be found ? I must leave my card on
him to-morroAA\"

Do you think it Avill be safe ? " says the general.

with a quizzical smile, as he makes a determined
advance to the doorway.

The gossip laughs too.

I'm quite satisfied about my part in the affair,"
says he ; " and I think I see his as well."

AVell, that's satisfactory," says the general, " at any
rate ; " and finally escapes from his button-holder.

He's a funny fellow, that ! " says the general to
himself; — then he looks towards the boudoir.

"No chance of getting a word from Lorraine tonight,"
thinks he. " Upon my word, I am inclined to
think the funny fellow was not so far out."

As for the funny fellow, as far as he could give it
notoriety, the next character in which Lorraine appeared
in public was. The Irish Fortune-hunter !

But what is going on in the boudoir ?

What is Lorraine saying and doing with this broken
thread of his life taken up thus unawares, and put into
his hands with such abruptness ?

It might have been made a matter of very even
betting what he would do, and what he would not do.
And if Fate had not lain in wait for him with such
a combination of fortuitous influences, he might as
likely as not have got no further than his favourite

dictum, — You never know what's going to happen
next !

But this involuntary homage he has so uncon-^
consciously given, — this unwitting gossip's very pertinent
chatter, — the novelty of these brilliant social
surroundings, — the proud allurement of this imposing
central figure, — and the proud certainty, that if he-pleases
he can go in and win, — he, the only man out
of all men ; — all this moves him quite away from the
region of his prosaic generalities, — and invests this
tardy meeting with something that is altogether beyond
the simply unlooked-for.

It lays him under a spell, — and this spell, which,
has at first transfixed him, and then has sent him with
three strides up to Lady Laure, works with no diminished
effect when he stands in the full lustre of
this most queenly presence.

He is taken by storm, — it becomes a crisis, — and it
leads him at once to one of his sudden resolves.

But he is no longer mute, — and with this happy
restoration of his powers of speech, he becomes himself
again; — himself, with the addition of his sudden
resolve this remains.

Lorraine's resolves once made partake of the unalterable.
They have nothing to do with that sort of
impulse which blinds the eyes, and bewilders the
head, — that unreasoning rashness, followed after in
haste, to be repented of at leisure. To conduct such

as this, with all his prudence, Lorraine is personally
no stranger ; — he will tell you, that once upon a time
this kind of impetuous folly upset his own commonsense,
— to his subsequent and great bewailing.

No, — Lorraine's sudden resolves are of quite a
different nature to this : — they are few and far between
; — but when they do come, they have the force
of an inspiration for him ; — they have the value of
deliberate action, — they are based upon an instinctive
conviction of the best thing to be done for himself
in particular, and generally for every one else.

No doubt, there was something headlong in the
mastering feelings which impelled him into the
boudoir, but now that he is come to himself, his
spoken expression of these feelings is quiet enough ;
and he breaks the silence of years with —

'* Laure, I am here — here at last."

For a moment — for one moment she hesitates; —
and then, both white hands go out to meet him.

It is the very movement, the very action of her
old despair, — the despairing action that he so remorselessly
put aside.

But now, there is neither despair nor remorseless-ness,
— nor indeed, remorse.

He takes the two white hands, and says, "I am
come, for my wife at last, Laure."

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XV.

Married.

In the joyous noontide day,

Who can night remember ?
Or amid the flowers of May,

Think of drear December ?
So no cloud of sorrow past
Can the present joy o'ercast.

Love springs not, nor shares of earth

Its mortality.
'Tis a seed of heavenly birth.

And can never die.
Where it mingles, naught can sever ;
Lighted once, it burns for ever.

Angry storms perchance may rend,

Winter's frosts may chill it ;
Here their baneful powers end, —

They can never kill it.
Genial breezes, sun and rain,
Soon shall make it bloom, again !

H.

Yes ; — they are married, — married, if not settled ;—
and Lorraine sits down beside Lady Laure, and watches
her white fingers weaving always their pretty mysteries
of silk and lace just with the old half-lazy stretch.

Only, to-day there is the expression of absolute
content in every word and look and movement.

He has at last found the end he had to consider.

And he starts anew, with the good little Timon's
fair and fond and faithful successor, for life's final
coal ; — with always his easy conscience in the past, —
and with abundance of faith in the future.

Con million corso e con maggiore stella," and
thus he arrives at Step Number Three.

As for the gossip-monger — the general's 'funny
fellow," he ran about for a week after the event —
which, indeed, created a singular sensation in society —
with a " I told you so ! "— " I told you so ! "

But the old general's verdict was —

I have myself not the smallest doubt in the world,
but that it was an old engagement."

After all — with poor Mr. Mildew left out, — and one
or two necessary differences, — it was astonishing how
much the life of this married pair resembled the life
of that pair of lovers eight sears before.

With Lorraine there never could be sentiment at
any time of his life, — or under any circumstances ; —
and he sits now, talking his generalities and his
common sense, just as he did then; — just as if they
had never been parted ; — he rallies her, and laughs

at her, — and amuses himself with all the grand
emotions — as he called them one day — left ont as
much as ever.

One emotion excepted.

Alike for one and for the other, there exists one
profound dolor — one unhealed scar, — one deathless
regret, — one undying memory, — one name breathed
not again till now.

Grief itself is mortal," — but to die well, it must
have vent ; — and this sore sorrow of their souls has
prevailed in silence.

But now it can speak out ; — and now the scar that
has seared both their hearts may begin to heal.

Now once more, as of old, they sit together
through the long summer morning, with Lucie's name
upon their lips, — with Lucie's winning ways, with
Lucie's wayward worshipped self before them.

He stands the very same, — the radiant hair and
eyes, — the tender transports, — the paroxysms of pain,
the inexpressible gentleness, — all are there.

His image —

"Like a star ;
Beacons from the abode where the eternal are."

All through these years — from then till now —
the rending pathos, the intense appeal of his latest
words, — fired with the prophetic passion of a soul

strung with the supreme agonies of life and death
and suffering, — of fate and love and sacrifice, — have
swept like unfathomable echoes through her heart.

All through these years, — the wail of " this poor
Lucie," — of " Claude, my brother," — has ring with a
never-ending knell through his soul.

What a boon, after these long years of voiceless
echoes, — of soundless knells, — of pent-up saddest loss,
to say, heart to heart, and eyes looking into each
other's troubled depths —

"His will has been strong as Fate. His wish is
fulfilled ; — he is our brother ; — we will mourn for him
together " !

And there is yet another memory, — yet another
regret, — yet another name, to summon up from the past
of their divided lives, and to unite them in a common
sympathy. Lady Laure listens with as much pride
as pity to Lorraine's unvarnished tale of the last cruise
of the little Timon.

Pride in the Timoii's master, — pity for the Timoii's
poor ghost.

Lady Laure will hear all about the heroic deed, —
but it is the fate of the poor ghost that Lorraine has
in his mind.

Again he calls him " a good fellow." And again

lie says, " I would have given all the Avoid to bring
him back alive." And again he sighs. " I saved his
life in vain, Laure ; I saved his life iii vain ! "

Then a tear glistens in her eyes. And then she
takes the Badge for Valour from its case, with a smile.

And let me look at it, Claude, let me look at it,"
she cries.

And so, with smiles and sighs, — but without a fear
or a froAvn, they begin their married life.

Not let some one prone to cavilling say that they
are all too old for Love's yoimg dream.

If they had not begun to count time so early, they
would not have had such a long look back now.

Reckon up their joint years as one, and you will
have a good round sum ; take them singly, and with
the balance well to his side, and you Avill find that for
wedded folk they are still in Life's green leaf.

As Lorraine said one day with one of his old laughs,
It was all for the best, Laure. If it had come about
then, we should have been an old married couple by
this time, — while now, we're nothing but a pair of
young lovers."

The sun of the dog days was beginning to make
the town unendurable hot, and Lorraine's new-born
patience was straining to its limits, — when he cried
out one stifling morning —

Since roasting on a slow spit is not to my mind,
Laure, what do you say to our taking tomorrow
that break-neck adventure, which, if I remember right,
I set down myself in our programme, for this appropriate
season ?

What do you say? Shall this be carried out like all
the rest of it, — finally, fully, and to the very letter ? "

Lady Laure laughs and says, "Yes," and "yes."
And — let us . go tomorrow ! " she cries. " Sabine
and I don't want much preparation ! "

Lady Laure was still, when back in her happy
self, prone to her pretty impulses.

But Lorraine replies, " To-morrow ? — whoever
thought of getting off by tomorrow? Haven't I a
week's affairs to get through ? And there's the Timon.
I must see about sending her round to Loughmore
Bay!"

Then Lady Laure laughs — laughs as in old days,
with her large blue eyes surprised and smiling.

And how could I tell," cries she, " that you didn't
mean what you said ? "

But the break-neck adventure came to pass in due
time, and the bridal pair set off for the high Alps, —
with Sabine — the faithful Sabine — as sole suite and
attendant.

"You have got that Frenchwoman still for your

maid," said Lorraine to Lady Laure. " She didn't
take to me in those days. I don't know how she'll
fancy me in these, for your master and hers."

Ah ! " cries Lady Laure, " Sabine is like her
mistress; — she understands things better now."

What things ? " says Lorraine, with malice.

Then Lady Laure is embarrassed.

You know what I mean, Claude, — the world and
its ways ! "

The world and its ways ! " says he, still with his
pleasure in persiflage.

So, I see, I represent to you and to the discriminating
Sabine — the world and its ways ! "

Then Lady Laure begins, with all the gravity of
her sweet face, to enter into her explanation —

"She has learnt, as I have," says she, "who to
accuse, — and where to excuse."

"Upon my word, Laure," cries Lorraine, "you
and she have learnt to talk very wisely. We have
changed places, my dear, — I am growing the Simpleton,
and you the Sage. You see I share the force of both
the epithets ; — but don't be learning too much of the
ways and the wisdom of this world you have taken to
studying. It's a very corrupting world at best, I can
tell you ; and you were just as well off, Laure, when
you understood nothing about it."

Lorraine's argumentative strains are as apt as ever
to fall off into their old consequences !

Let us suppose the break-neck adventure well in
hand, — and with neither broken necks nor shattered
limbs.

Lady Laure revives her old accomplishments
taught her by her Grey Squire with distinguished
success. she goes up a real mountain ; she sets up her
stone on the top ; and Lorraine cuts an L on the flagstaff
for both, — and they devour their hunch of bread
and bottle of milk with an exuberance of appetite and
high spirits.

Lady Laure's pale serenity is put to flight.

Auburn tresses are all a-flowing, — cheeks and eyes
are all aglow, — she is breathless with the proud exertion
; — she is radiant in the cloudless sin and sky of
this clear upper earth.

Lorraine, himself a little breathless, has still eyes
for these new charms.

Let me look at you," he cries. " Why, I don't
know you ! I'll tell you what it is, Laure. AVe'll build
a chalet somewhere in these high parts. This milkmaid
style becomes you a deal better than your milk-and-water
one, you may believe me ! "

They aa ere immensely happy.

But pleasures purely as such, if they are to remain
pleasures, must be partaken of sparingly, — and one
day, when the beds were particularly hard, and the
partitions between them and their neighbours particularly
thin, — when the wine was thin too, — and the

bread was like stale seed-cake without the sweet, —
when the mutton was goat, and the chickens were
sparrows, and everything else in accordance, then
Lorraine said —

"For the present we have had enough of it; — we
will go down."

And why ? " said Lady Laure, after sundry more
ups and downs, — and when they were near unto the
direct home route — " And why shall we go round that
way, Claude ? "

Because," says Lorraine — with something between
a smile and a sigh — " because

There I spent some happy hours,
Which live in memory yet.'

That's the poetical way to put it, isn't it, Laure ? " and
he turns the smile into a laugh.

Ah ! when ? " cries she.

Ah ! Avhen, indeed ! Ah, woeful when ! " says he,,
and the smile and the sigh come back.

Listen, Laure ; can you bear to hear the truth ? "

You know I can," is her ready reply.

Lorraine half laughs again. " You've caught your

hare ! Well, that's the essential point to sensible

people like you !

It was full eight years ago," — and then he stops
to consider, — and then he looks curiously at his companion.


"You've not forgotten, Laure, have you, the day

I bounded away from you like a bullet off a — a ?

You see, I can't find any simile for you, but an
alligator — I might say rhinoceros, but there's not the
slightest affinity to you in either of these mailed
beasts, — the metaphor is too forced. I — do very well
for the bullet — but as for you "

Oh, never mind," says Lady Laure, laughing at
his absurdities — " you are tantalizing me."

"Laure," says Lorraine, with seriousness real or
affected, "you have not the gift of observation, — do
you not perceive that I am making the time out, and
that I can't come to the point exactly ? "

"Then do come to the point," says she; "why
shouldn't you ? "

"Well," he answers, "I am not so clear why I
don't, — whether it is because of you sitting there, or

whether it is because of However, here it is. In

that old city, which we shall reach one of these evenings,
I came upon the greatest consolation of my past
life ; — a consolation that was all consolation, — no vexation,
no distrust, and it came in the shape of a
woman ! "

Lady Laure has caught her hare, and holds it well
in hand, and further than this, she has no fears that
it will turn restive.

But still she colours up.

Of course," she says, with an awkward pause.

Of course ! " repeats Lorraine. " But why of
course ? "

Of course," says she, with a little firmness, " you
would not go through all these years without something
of that " And she stops.

Something of what ? " repeats he again.

Something of that sort of thing, Claude."

Lorraine laughs.

Well, as to that sort of thing, to come no nearer
to its particularity than you do Laure, I have had
precious little of it in my life, but quite as much as

I wanted , but now your

question is answered, and you know the reason why
we have, as you say, come all this way round."

If Time in our century had no other landmarks,
the changeful locomotion of the age would alone be
sufficient to show its strides.

But with the ancient city Lorraine is going round
by, not even the modes of reaching it had suffered any
change.

It is all just as it was, when he and Mufti, and
the flower-pot, and their bright little mistress, and the
sour old groton filled the rotonde of the rumbling

big diligence, and arrived at its gates, — pretty well a
decade before.

Laure," says Lorraine, " did you ever travel in a
diligence ? "

She shakes her head.

You know," says she, " I have really travelled
very little."

Well," he rejoins, " it's not exactly the traveller's
experience most to be coveted."

Why did you ask me, then ? " is the answer ; —
and Lady Laure rests her blue eyes upon him, with
one of her old, quiet, wondering looks.

Why ? — of course, there's a why to everything,
Laure ; — and this why is, that if you've no objection,
we'll take the rofonde of the diligence to ourselves
tomorrow, and go on, that way to the spot of my consolation."


How can I object ? " says she. " I dare say it's
very comfortable in its way."

And I dare to say it's very uncomfortable in its
way ! " is his quick reply.

What do you mean, Claude ? Why do you go
by it, then ? "

That's just the mystery of it, Laure, for you and
for me too, I begin to think. How do you like the
idea of going about the world with a husband who

lias a mystery in this sleeve ? Why do we do this

or that, or anything ? I've often asked myself these
questions, and I never could get a satisfactory reply."

To Lorraine, Lady Laure could never be more than
the half-child she began by being.

But yesterday is not to-day. Yesterday her eyes
would have filled with tears at his wayward remarks ;
to-day she sits down at his feet, takes his two hands
prisoners, — looks up at him with her sweet blue eyes,
and says—

"Kiss me."

I object to tears " was the rebuff those blue eyes
met with in the old times.

In these new times, the corresponding rebuff — " I
'Object to kisses " — has yet to be given.

CHAPTER XVI.

SANS l'oUBLIER.

Without forgetting — we our love may fly,
And banish far the lover's name and speech ;
From absence we may strength and hope beseech,
To 'scape the thraldom of his mastery, —

Without forgetting.

Without forgetting — streams there are that course
And carry life far off to other flowers ;
I quit the fields that hueless death devours,
And wander like the stream that quits its source, —
Without forgetting.

Without forgetting — a soft voice and dear ;
What ages bora and dead I since have known !
Not yet untroubled could I bear its tone.
tt is a voice that I have ceased to hear, —

Without forgetting.

After the French.

Lorraine's plan for the next day's travelling was
completely carried out.

The venturing who had brought them thus far
agrees to take carriage and horses back again with
him. It was not the arrangement they started with,
but the omnipotent napoleon conquers all difficulties.

It's all right," says Lorraine, coming in with the

air of a man who has achieved his object. "I've
talked the fellow over, and he's off; — but we shall
have to be stirring early, you know,^sharp five,
Laure, sharp five ! "

Sharp five found every one ready, and shivering
somewhat, as they stand waiting for the word to mount,
in the courtyard of the office of the diligence.

It is the small capital of the district, not placed
to perfection, and the clammy chill of the early morning
fills the level valley.

Lorraine walks to and fro and stamps his feet.
I wish we were off, Laure ; it's old for you ! "

Sabine looks pinched and cross. She is beginning
to distrust the late signs of amendment in her old
aversion.

There are plenty of diligences, half a dozen or
more, and all about to depart ; — and there is the risk,
if you act precipitately, that you may move off in the
opposite direction to your baggage and your intentions.

Lorraine is too old a soldier to fall into any such
trap as this, and though his patience is still not what
it might be, he awaits the word of command.

With time it comes, and he and Lady Laure and
Sabine — Sabina, as Lorraine, for some occult reason,
insists upon calling her — take their seats in the
rotonde, and endeavour to fill it.

It is still the twilight of the dawn.

Lorraine, with a striking repetition of a former
era, proceeds to take a peaceful nap.

But with the nap the similarity abruptly ends.
He opens his eyes to the sun's awakening rays, but he
beholds no Mufti, — no flower-pot, — no bright little
mistress, — no vieux groton.

What he does see is, — Lady Laure and Sabine,
with their veils down, asleep in their respective angles.

It was Lorraine's first attempt at a sentimental
journey, and it was his last.

Shut yourself up for a twelve hours' spell in the
rotonde of a diligence, with your wife and her lady's-maid,
— with an atrocious smell of tobacco, — with your
head, do what you will, encountering the roof at every
roll and jerk of the ill-built vehicle,^with no stretch
for your legs, and nothing to speak of, to sit upon, —
and you will appreciate Lorraine's specific against
sentimental journeys.

Here at last ! " cries Lorraine. " Whatever form
of thanksgiving, Laure, you like to put up, I'll join
in it."

Oh ! there's nothing to complain of ! " says she.

Well, all I've got to say," says he, " the next
time you're bent upon another edition of it, you'll
have to leave me out of your expedition."

Lady Laure is on the point of saying, " Why, it
was you, Claude, who were bent upon it ! "

But Lady Laure has grown wise and wary, — as her
husband said.

VOL. III. p

You shall never do anything of the kind if you
don't like," says she, with a happy laugh.

And so they roll through the gates, and into the
highways of the old city.

Lorraine might have quitted it yesterday. The
streets are just as dull, the lake is just as fair, the
gloomy old minster stands where it did, — and so does
the quaint old inn.

It looks small," says Lady Laure, trying to take
a general view of it as they draw up.

Lorraine is thinking just the same thing. It is the
first perceptible difference that occurs to him, in the
external look of things here.

But he rejects the admission with — " What in the
world would you have, Laure ? Maurice's or Coleridge's !
Women raise their expectations so wildly ! "

Not quite that," says she, laughing. " But for a
town it certainly looks a little place." And so it did.

Lady Laure was correct, and Lorraine was not
candid.

When he last looked up at those windows, what
a breadth and depth there was about them !

'How is their light departed ! and how are their
proportions dwarfed and diminished !

So the world goes round, — with flourish and fade, —
with fancy and fact, — with old spells and new ; — and

Lorraine makes the best of it, — chooses their rooms —
first floor rooms, rooms farthest from his old sky parlour
— farthest from a well-remembered door ; — leads
Lady Laure thither by the well-known flight of stairs ;
sets Sabine to work to provide her with tea and all
available solaces, and turns off himself to take his cigar
and to refresh his associations.

I was a fool," thinks he, " for coming ! I've let it
rest so long, — what was the use of bringing it all upto
my mind, just at this moment, too ? "

Lady Laure also addressed one word to herself —
What an odd place this seems for Claude to have
met any one ! I wonder who it was ? "

The journey was of twelve hours. These antique
lumber-waggons were for the most part punctual, and
having started, at sharp five a.m. they arrive almost
to the moment, at sharp five p.m.

The sun has not set. There is the old glory upon
the lake, — " Sombre du bois " is to a shadow the
same, — and the pavilion — it too stands unchanged — the
frescoed nymphs are untouched by time, — the water
laps the steps with its old tranquillizing monotony.
And Lorraine himself, — he stands in the midst of all
these stationary memorials, — to look at him, as stationary
as any of them, — the very incarnation of fair and
fortunate manhood. But there is a flaw for this brief

moment in the smooth inner man, — the old scar is
half inclined to bleed, — an old sigh bursts ont again, —
and he is driven to cry aloud, " All gone ! all gone ! "

The lake is still gorgeous. There are the little
towns, set in the golden lights. There are the black-bearded
mountains. The scene is lovely as ever, but
it gives him more pain than pleasure, — and he turns
away — turns up the serpentine path beneath the
trees, so often trod, so well remembered, — and going
in by the glass doors he is taking his way to his wife,
but, what does he see at the other end of the covered
corridor — the corridor along which he and a pair of
velvety eyes have so often watched for an unwieldy
body with a halting step to appear, — or better far, to
disappear ?

What is that curly wig and cropped coat and tufted
tail that he catches sight of ?

Mufti, Mufti, poor fellow ! " cries Lorraine.

And with a spring, a white poodle is crouching at
his feet.

The world may laugh, but as for Lorraine, he could
have wept for joy !

Yes ; it is Mufti,— if not that Mufti— this Mufti ;
always Mufti.

Waking him out of his sudden transport comes the
rumble of 2;ratin2: wheels on the tiled floor advancing

behind him, — and starting out of the way, he falls
into the midst of a yet dearer surprise.

Can he believe his senses ? Is that, indeed, the
vieux groton muffled up in a wheeled chair ? — and are
those the sweet velvety eyes that he catches sight of
in the distance ? Yes, it is all a fact. The eluding
shadows of the rotonde, — of the pavilion, — and of his
forgetting heart, take shape and substance, and stand
before him.

Ah ! I see you again ; I see you again ! " And
this is Valerie's greeting.

What does he say ? It were hard to set down.

He holds her hands, and he looks into her velvety
eyes and he says, soft and low —

"Yaldrie! Valerie!"

Eight years ! Well, if not eight, seven. Who
could credit it ? AVho, to look into that bright,
speaking face, into those velvety eyes ; — who could
credit that all these years stretch out between this
moment, and those long-past happy hours ?

These years, that have transformed Lady Laure
from a shrinking girl into a stately woman, — have left
Valerie de Keradec the same sweet woman still, — to
the very quivering smile of the soft, red lips, — to the
very sparkle that comes through the dark fringed
lashes.

" Valerie, Valerie ! My brave and tender Valerie ! "
He has no other words. He has no other thought, —
no other memory.

From his dilating eyes — eyes that tell the strong
joy that swells the heart beneath them — all things
vanish but one form, one memory, — all things fade
and fall away : wedded ties and wedding tours and
wedded life. He sees only Valerie de Keradec. He
remembers only the happy hours they passed together.

But the Present has at hand a sure and swift
memento, — and spinning along with her flapper, to
keep him alive to the things that concern him, comes
Mademoiselle Sabine.

Kind Heaven ! Is this, — are these tumultuous
joys, nothing but the dead Past? And does the
living Present exist alongside of that pert lady's-maid
?

Even so.

Sabine's round eyes have again the old malice in
them.

This journey ! — this caprice ! Lorraine is again
lourd, again " vrai Anglais ! "

Miladi," says she — when Sabine is on her high
horse, she invariably reverts to her mother tongue —
Miladi ne pourra jamais supporter la fatigue de

pareils voyages ! Monsieur elle se meurt, je vais la
coucher de suite."

Miladi !

The whole force of the awakening, — the whole
history of the situation lies, in that word.

Madame de Keradec sees — hears — and comprehends.
She does not draw back. She does not start
nor weep — nor frown — nor even sigh. She is the
complete mistress of herself.

All right," says Lorraine, — head, heart, thought,
all still whirling, swimming, throbbing.

Avec son, — all right ! Toujours son, — all right !"
and with the hiss of a stage whisper, Sabine departs.

Madame de Keradec follows her with her eyes.
Sabine is truly du fays. She appreciates her so perfectly
— malice and all — and then the velvety eyes
meet Lorraine's.

I find you married."

Yes, — married, Valerie ! " He speaks with one of
his old, dogged tones.

Married — to your too-good woman, — your angel,
your child, — your statue, — your queen ! "

The velvety eyes drop with the last word.

"You have a good memory, Valerie," says Lorraine,
bitterly.

Ah ! Je vous I'ai dit," murmurs she, — the eyes
still down.

"eyes ; — and I didn't believe it," is his reply.

Ah ! quel bonheur pour elle ! "

And the eyes go up, glistening now with the bright
tears that will not overflow.

Take me to her, my friend, and let me learn to
love her also ! "

And then the tears flow freely down.

Valerie, Valerie ! " cries Lorraine. " It is you
who are an angel. My good angel, if ever mortal
had one ! "

In all his life, Lorraine never spoke a truer word.
In this moment, all things are again trembling in the
scales. And in this moment, — Valerie, brave, true, and
tender, — throws herself, with all her weight, on the side
of Honour and Truth.

There he stands before her, — weaker than he has
ever been ; — even the soft companionship of his few
wedded days makes him the more easy prey to the
old passion, which has sprung up so fiercely.

She has only to put the match to these fires, which
have but slumbered, and she can make the old passion
burst into such a blaze as his heart has never yet been
scorched by.

She can break up his life with a vengeance; and
she can turn the honied bliss of her happy rival to
gall of the bitterest dye.

But Madame de Keradec's heart has changed as
little as her face. She understands now more than
ever the absoluteness of love once given ; — and more
than ever she is capable of making the sacrifice of it

with the calm and simple courage of a true and tender
mind. It costs her a tear ; — it may cost her many more,
for she is tender and constant ; — but, she can forget herself,
— she can think only of another, — she can accept
her own sacrifice, she can love, — and not forget. She
is an alchemist, and can convert the dead weights of
life into soaring pinions. She is brave and true and
pure. She is the very woman of all others to be a
man's good angel. But of such there are not many !
They are like the visits of the angels themselves, —
few, and far between.

Et mon pauvre pere, comment le trouvez vous ? "

It was the question of all others, that was the most
calculated to bring Lorraine back to himself. What
was he to reply ?

Le vieux groton was still to be recognized, — though
swelled in face and body and legs, with watery eyes
and palsied hands, — he is a sad specimen of what maybe
in store for the most valiant of us.

Lorraine endeavours to express all his sympathy for
this state of suffering.

But I hope Monsieur Le Brun will soon be
on his feet again," he says, addressing Madame de
Keradec.

But the invalid breaks in with a voice thicker than
ever.

Monsieur le colonel, — Monsieur le colonel."

There is a vain attempt to lift the swollen eyebrow,
but Lorraine catches the eye glaring with all its old
ferocity from beneath it.

Ah ! certainly," he answers ; " I ought not to forget
that you have fought for your country, Monsieur le
colonel ! "

As of old, for Valerie's sake, he will humour the
old man.

Ah, la patrie ! " is the appeased reply, " vous I'avez
bien dis ! Ces pleasures, monsieur, — you may now
judge of what they were — now that you see what they
have made of me ! Ces pleasures ! que j'ai repues, le
coeur rempli d'une fierce guerriere, en combattant pour
ma patrie, ces pleasures me meneront au tombeau ! "

Colonel Le Brun had talked so long, and so
valiantly about his wounds, that whoever else was
sceptical, his own convictions in them were not to be
shaken.

But with the next turn of the chair the concierge
came out of the glass doors ; he had the house porter
with him, — quite a different concierge to the democratic
one — affable, and condescending, he might have
been the her healer himself.

Colonel Le Brun is under his especial charge — and
he intimates, with a profound obeisance, that the supper
prepared for Monsieur le colonel " vient d'etre servi,"

and he proposes, with the assistance of the house porter,
to conduct him to it.

The colonel waves his shaky hand, or tries to do so
with a corresponding condescension, and gives a sort
of snort of satisfaction ; — it is made up of the anticipation
of the supper, and of the gratification given to him
by the respectful manners of the concierge.

The colonel has two passions — to inspire terror,
and to extract homage.

So left, these two friends — friends and nothing more
look at each other silently and sadly, — not with the
sadness of sorrow, but with the sadness of all those
things that touch the heart.

The sunset is on the lake, Valerie," says Lorraine ;
" let us look at it once again together. Let us goto
the pavilion."

He takes her hand for a moment, to induce her ;
but she has the full will to do what he wishes, and so
says frankly —

De tout, mon coeur ! "

Ah ! mon Dieu," she says to her heart, — " can I
refuse to stand there once more with him ? Is it not
for us the spot sacred as the Temple of Heaven ? "

And then, without more thoughts or words, they
thread together the shade of the plane trees, and the

serpentine walk, — and stand once more side by side in
the pavilion by the lake.

Once more — once more ! — the words have that
'' dying fall " which goes with sweet music at night ; —
they have a pathos which can only chime in with —
Never again.

Valerie," says Lorraine, " it was the merest
chance, — the merest chance ! "

Madame de Keradec has no affectation ; she does
not pretend not to know what this — it — stands for.

Ah, no ! " says she. " It was always to be, — one
of the days to come."

And then she goes a step forward. She rests her
arms against the low pillar of the steps, — and looks
down at the lapping water.

It is the very spot he stood upon, on one dark
dreary night-fall, awaiting the fate that was to part
them, — as friends, for years, — as lovers, for ever.

So she stands, thinking perhaps of that Past, and
that parting — of this Present, and this meeting ; — and
perhaps driving it all from her heart, and gathering up
her strength for the future.

Lorraine is glib enough of tongue, and perhaps
something too much of it, — when matters, whether good
or bad, go no further than skin-deep.

But in those rare moments when his heart is touched,
he is of all men the poorest in words.

Madame de Keradec has thought out her thoughts,
and she turns her brave tender face to this silent man.

My friend," says she, " you see well how it was all
meant to be. Your fiancee — the sister of your friend
bien aime, — tant pleure. she is your wife. We are
friends, — we end as we began — friends — a jamais ! "

The tears glisten again in the soft eyes, — they even
stand on the fringed eyelashes.

But she will not have them overflow this time.

And ah ! " she cries, " is it not so much better like
this ? If you had come to me, and had said what you
said to her, — what could I have done ?

I could never have left mon pauvre pere ; and I
could never have given to you that cruel No."

With " that cruel No," one rebellious tear brims
over on to the oval cheek.

Lorraine, with a sort of dumb helpless action, holds
out his hand, as if to say — Make of it what you will.

Madame de Keradec accepts the sign ; — she advances
to him, — she takes his hand, offered not indeed to her —
but as it were to the winds, — takes it with that inimitable
fascination in voice, look, and movement, which
is her unalienable charm.

It is agreed," she says ; " you give me your hand
upon it. We are friends — three friends ; — vous me
comprenez bien, n'est ce pas ? "

Three friends," echoes Lorraine.

"And now," says she, leading him off to other
thoughts, just in the old way, — just with the old power,
just with the old generous sympathy, which would
spare him one pang the more, — which would at all
costs spare him

" And now," she says, " will you not hear some
news of Louis — Louis, who owes his life to you, my
friend ? "

It was the best day's work in my life ! " cries
Lorraine, with a profound sigh, — not the sigh of grief,
but of relief — from the thraldom of being tongue-tied :
he has found a word to utter at last.

I never knew how it all happened ! " says she —
with a look in her face, which says, " Tell it to me
now."

It's just as well that you didn't," says Lorraine.

Ah ! I could never bring him to speak of it."

No wonder ! " His eyes are fixed upon Madame
de Keradec, but he sees the shock head of Bijou,
and the cadaverous countenance of the red-haired
Fuss.

It was revolting," says he, — " revolting."

Madame de Keradec, as she once was fain to own,
had her little curiosity about her friends, — and she
could exercise it skilfully, to the unravelling of their
mysteries. But she lays aside her talent now. The
curiosity still remains, — but she does not even say to
herself, " pour une autre fois ! "

She goes back to her brother.

Louis, — he too is married," says she. " I was so
glad, and so sorry, — that is always the way, is it not ? "
and she looks up in his face.

"With women, perhaps," says Lorraine; — "not
with men, Valerie."

He stops with his hand to his forehead.

What do you think of ? " she asks.

I was regretting ; " — and then he stops, and
considers her. He looks at her, as she stands therewith
her typical face, and typical character, — typical
of all that comes the nearest to his highest standard of
woman as she should be.

What was Lorraine regretting ? A mixture of all
things, perhaps, — but the predominant regret was one
not unworthy of him ; — it was the regret that this
woman, — so bright and winning, — with the tact and
tenderness of unselfishness decked in smiles, — should
be condemned, either by his fatality or hers, or both, —
never to make the happiness of some man, if not of
himself, of another, — should die a flower ungathered,
for what can " le pauvre Hegesippe " count for ? —
should be chained through all her beaux jours to the
Juggernaut car of the vieux grognons wheeled chair !

Parlez done," says she, gently.

I was thinking, Valerie," says he, " of the difference
your brother's marriage must make."

His wife is charming," says she, quickly. " Elle
fut mon amie dependance."

I was not thinking of him," says he.

They have not long been married," she answers ;
but soon we shall begin to see each other very much."

Ah ! " says Lorraine. " Somehow or other, men
always belong to their wives ! "

He speaks with the brother and the telle soeur
solely in his view, and by the inadvertence of a preoccupied
mind, he does not even perceive the application
to his own position.

But she does.

It is getting dusk, and the flush of the damask
cheek — and the so near to pallor of the retreating
flood, — are hidden from all eyes.

But the flat truism has stabbed her heart, — not with
its utterance, but with its truth.

Then suddenly comes a rustling through the leaves,
and a whine and a dash.

It is Mufti, — he has sniffed them out.

Poor Mufti ! poor fellow ! " Lorraine is already
making an alliance.

We must take him in," says Madame de Keradec.
The hotel people are in despair if the poor animal is
loose in the garden, — and for him too it is safer — weare
so near to the lake."

But he can swim," remarks Lorraine.

Yes, I dare say ; but he was nearly drowned in that

SANS L'OUBLIEPv. 225

place where there is that waterfall, ^\e tried it this
year, — but it was * detestable ! ' " — The " detestable "
takes the pronunciation " du pays." — " We are so much
more happy here ! " she cries.

Are you happy, Yalerie ? "

'' Oui, mon ami ! " says she, — the velvety eyes
opening wider than they have ever done, with the
courage of the moment. " E'en toutes point ! II est
heureux,— celui qui croit I'etre ! " and she gives him a
bright smile.

And then they address themselves to keeping-guard
over Mufti's high spirits and capers ; — just as if
his good behaviour was, of all serious things, the most
serious they had now to consider. Once passed
through the glass doors, they give him his liberty;
but he dashes out by the hall into the road.

Shall we follow him ? " says Lorraine.

We had perhaps better," says she, in return. " He
is young, he may get lost ; " — and she looks anxiously
through the window.

Lorraine whistles in vain.

This Mufti is unacquainted with his call.

So they walk up and down. Suddenly Lorraine
stops.

What are those booths," says he, " that they are
setting up to-night ? "

"It is the fair tomorrow; — you do not forget, we
saw it together ! "

VOL. III. Q

Lorraine does not forget.

And will they come," says he, " Zephirina and
Cherubino and the uncle ? "

He sees them only as memory paints them, — still
the two merry elms, with white curls, and tumbled
frocks ; — he can see even the back of the raAvboned
chestnut horse.

Helas ! non," says she. " It is a too sad tale. I
always asked for them ; — you know that I Alas to take
Zephirina ! Ah ! all that was a dream. It was the
second year, I think, they came as usual. She was
no bigger, — just the same ; always la petite fee. Well,
it is so sad, — the brother and the sister both took a
fever, and died in a week, just over there-sin the
waggon where it stood, — and the rough man, perhaps
he was the uncle, — he was found drowned in the lake.
They said he drank wine to drown his care, — and so
fell in."

Maybe," answers Lorraine, musing over it alb
with his eyes fixed upon Adhere the waggon stood, —
"and maybe he asked the lake to drown his care,
Avithout the go-between of the wine.

I can see their two heads now," he says, "with
their kisses and their little hugging arms, all in the
dark and the cold of that raw, miserable morning ! "

Mais comment," asks she, " how was that ? "

Didn't I ever tell you ? " asks he.

Did you ever write to me ? " she cries.

He turns to her, with a work of shame and self-reproach
in his eyes.

Never ! Valerie, never ! not once ! It is as
hitter a truth for me as for you ! "

And then again, opportunely as before, bounces up
the rampaging, rollicking Mufti. He nearly upsets
Lorraine's equilibrium.

He is still so yomig," says Madame de Keradec.
Excusing the dog, — she passes over the man.

What is to be said of his transgression and its
consequences — save that it was to be ?

He is so young," says Madame de Keradec, — " and
wild still ! " Then she adds with a sad voice —

Helas ! no Mufti has been like that Mufti ! " and
the voice grows sadder still, as she relates how that
mufti came to an early grave.

"I always thought," she says, "that he pined to
death for the loss of you ! "

Poor Mufti ! he was a dog of fine feelings, — it was
quite a possible dog-tragedy ; — but there was also that
kick of the democratic concierge delivered in the
intention of them all; — Mufti's heart and ribs may
both have been broken together.

Only one short week, — one short week after I saw
you depart ! "

Lorraine looks up at the windows.

You were not there, Valerie, — not even at your
own windows ; — they stared so blankly that morning

I saw you," she whispers, half shady ; — " I saw
you." And then she speaks out. " Can you think I
shoukl let you get up and be driven away from me,
without my sending after you un — un — adieu, mon
ami ? "

The play of his old raillery comes into Lorraine's
eyes — when the jest of the thing strikes him ;— it is a
clear proof that he is becoming master of himself.

Un baiser, Valerie ! Why not say the word ?
There ^^as no harm in it then, and I don't know that
there would be any harm in it now ! " Then he looks
down at her, frankly and fearlessly, and with steady
and honest eyes.

This friendship footing," says he, " remains to
be arranged. But one thing I am sure of, — that I
have found you, and that I don't mean to lose sou
again ! Whatever you may think of me, — you hou'
you can trust yourself! We have got our lives, — and
we are going to make the best of them, and, by God's-help,
Valerie, we are going to do as we'd be done by,
all round ! "

One more word winds up the scene.

To-morrow, Valerie, you and Laure must make
acquaintance."

Chapter XVII.

THE CURTAIN DROPS.

'' Farewell ! a word that must be . . .
A sound that makes us linger ."

There are certain persons who are never contented
with their pleasures till they have drained them to
the dregs. They sit up through the small hours
talking over the play when it is done ; — they insist
upon stopping for the wind-up of the tragedy, though
they know it is likely to turn the pathos to bathos ; —
they are the self-elected claqueurs of encores ; — they
cork up their claret, and put away their melon to the
next day ; — they will utilize all the dross ; — they will
even read their newspapers a day old rather than not
read them to the full ; — they cannot bring themselves
to fling away any of the husks of their mortal coil ; —
they eat their oysters with pleasure, but behold with a
pang the shells lying on the dust-heap. It is a dark
saying to them, that the half is better than the whole.
They arrive at your house the first, and leave it
the last ; — they are the staying bores of morning
visitors. '

They are fidgety people to live with, bent upon
destroying the aroma of everything in life by the
necessity which exists for them, — to exploits all
their opportunities to the uttermost, — a strain which
even reacts upon themselves ; — for they are mostly
persons of bilious habit, with little to say for themselves,
— dreary in countenance, and prone to yawning.

But of all these exjMteiirs, the long-winded storyteller
is perhaps as great a sinner as any, — he even
sins when he knows better : — that " invincible ignorance
" which is not answerable for its state, is not
for him, — nor does he, like the rest of these sinners,
escape the penalty of his misdemeanours, — one way or
another, he rarely goes unAvhipped !

One single plea may be advanced for him, — his sin
is not a grovelling one. If there is a spark of vitality
in his characters, it is because they have interested him,
if they interest no one else, — and when the moment
comes to bid them farewell, he is fain to linger over
it, — to put off by a few words or a few pages, that
melancholy " must be ; " — a hazardous indulgence, like
all unlawful pleasures, for his next leaf may see him
floundering in the abject miseries of anti-climax.

If you are down upon him, it is only what he
deserves, not for his feelings — but for the way he has
mismanaged his expression of them. The sentiment
itself is one hallowed by all time.

It must have been from pure affection for their
creations, not from paucity of imagination, that the

story-tellers of all ages have clung to the figures
already upon their canvas, — have reproduced the
same impersonations in one grouping after another, with
merely the connection and sequence that cotemporary
or advancing life suggests, — advancing so far as to
bring even the children's children upon the scene.

But it belongs only to the few master hands to do
this with success ; — the smaller folk must do it at their
own peril.

It may be all a very lame excuse, seized upon by
one of this latter tribe ; — but it must serve the purpose
of an apology for bringing up Prince Fortune and his
friends again, in a final chapter.

It is so soon to draw the curtain over this career.

Lorraine has barely got through the half of the
years allotted to man ; — the fruits of his life are barely
maturing.

We left him taking one of his strong resolves ; —
it might be better art to leave its fulfilment with a
doubt; — but since it is nigh upon a quarter of a
century since that resolve was taken, — as far as the
unities go, there need be no doubt attached to it ; —
and there is a satisfaction in setting down that he did
not vary in this from his former precedents.

His strong resolve once taken, he kept to it — to
the letter, — and in its entire spirit.

He made the best of his life, — and did as he would
be done by, all round.

He kept Friendship at his left hand, and Love at
his right ; — and if he did not say, ^' How happy could
I be With either ! " he did say, " How happy I am
with both ! "

He lived in an old-fashioned way, — and he had an
old-fashioned family, — plenty of sons and daughters.

Room for all," — as he was given to say with the
arrival of each little stranger! • >.♦ ^ ^a

Plenty of money, — too much ; — they were too rich,
they had too much to dispose of: — three great
fortunes, and as many and more great places. And
with Lady Laure's persistent disregard of the jeweller's
counter, — and Lorraine's own personal difficulty in
spending, — their abundance was the only crushing
thing in their lives. -

You see, Laure," says Lorraine, " it mayn't be a
fault, but it's true, there's nothing of the spendthrift
in you, or of the fine miser in me — and there's a limit
to the setting up of Almshouses and Hospitals — in
fact, it's admitted on all hands, that too much of a
good thing is a nuisance ! "

Then Lady Laure laughs and tells him "not to
be unhappy — by-the-by, the boys will make it quite
easy for him."

There were all the old names oyer again, — ringing
new peals of Youth and Joy in their ears. Liicie and
Arthur, and Louis and Yalerie ; — but this Lucie who
romps with his father — his first-born and his darling, —
who climbs his back, and shrieks for joy, — is no inheritor
of the radiant hair and eyes that once went
with this dear name ; — he is the very image of his
father, with his robust beauty ; — and it is better so ; —
long ago, Lorraine had said, " There can be but one
Lucie in the world ! "

There is even a Myrtilla ; — and Myrtilla herself,
staid and full-blown, acts as sponsor and head nurse at
the christoiijg- ^^oice more the Lough Beg gates are
starred; — 5nd once more she sits with the loose

^

door flung wide open now, — with half a dozen rosy
urchins of her own, running in and out of it.

And Harry English, in a still more unfeeling state
of breadth and weight, making almost two of Lorraine
himself, is head mate again of the pinnace, and 
on board the Timon.

Castle Louo'hmore and the old chateau of Keradec
compare notes, — and summer suns see a living freight
of old friends and young faces, arriving upon the shores
of La Yielle Bretagne ; — and to receive them, j\Iadame
de Keradec, always less changed than any one, — and
Louis and the telle soeitr, — and the vieux groton, in
his chair, who cannot die, — and la chere tante, with
her weird tales for the young ones, who continues
to live.

Thus around Lorraine all good things group and
gather ; — there is but one jar left, — and that, he would
tell you again, — is none of his own seeking !

None the less, it is of his OAvn making, — at least,
you might say so — at the first glance.

Hoar far we do or do not lead up to the occult
things of our oAvn lives, it will never be given to us to
know.

How this came about was simple enough.

It was Lady Laure who laid the first stone of it, —
it was not wise of her — for she ought to have known
her husband by this time.

But, as we said long ago — to unite the wisdom of
the serpent to the harmlessness of the dove, was the
one human perfection in Which Lady Laure was found
wanting.

It was at the birth of the third son.

We will call him Horace," says Lady Laure.

AYith all my heart " — answers Lorraine, offhand.
"But — wasn't that the name of your old Fungus?
Take care, don't bring the boy up on that food, my
dear, — anyhow ! "

He laughs at his joke. There is not the shadow of
a frown upon his brow at this ill-starred revival of the
old jarring topic.

And as to Lady Laure — she is not so sensitive — not
so easily wounded now. Moreover, her strategy of
married life was laid down in her honeymoon, and she
has kept to it unwaveringly.

But the A\"orst of it was — that it was not — " Withall
my heart."

Lorraine never took to the boy, and the thing gre^\'
upon him. There is no romping with Horace — no
high games here ! The child is the youngest of three,
but he does not always remain in his petticoats, — and
when the time comes for him to take his place with his
brothers — with his father — there is no place for him.

Children have such an instinct, such a preternatural
insight into these things. They do not know
whether it is for their own sins — or for another's — they
do not connect it with offence, — but they feel in a mute
bewildered way, the icy difference there is between
those who are loved, and the one who is not loved.

Some well-merited cuffs do the other youngsters
come in for, — but not once has Lorraine lifted his
hand against Horace.

And yet Horace is the only one who does not —
who cannot rush up to him, asking for all he wants —
or dragging him away to his revels, with the fearless
confidence which a father's indulgence inspires.

So the boy takes to his mother, nestling at her
knees, — following her steps, — watching for her opening-door,
— telling her all his troubles, — confiding to her all
his pleasures, — clinging to her with all the kindling-love
of a child-heart, that knows what it is to be left
out in the cold.

And as the boy grows older and can no longer sit
all day at his mother's knee, he quits the noisy rounds
of his brothers' sports, and betakes himself to the wild
company of the birds and the beasts, — he wanders alone
in the lovely wildernesses of these moors and lakes.

Not with the sombre eye of Sir Loftus, but with
the quick ken of Nature's elected child. The dumb
creatures are his playfellows, — they come at his call, —
the birds sit on his hands, — the beasts crouch at his
feet, — he grows learned in their ways and wiles, — and
he grows healthy and happy apace.

His mother's eye marks it all, and is glad.

Day by day he brings his armfuls of wild blossoms
to her lap; — she takes them tenderly, — she will not
throw one away, — she parts his brown wavy locks, and
kisses his broad boy's forehead, — and looks at his
large grey eyes speaking their innocent language
through their curly lashes, — and listens with rapt
attention to his eager histories of his birds, and of his
beasts, — of his races with the butterflies, and his
rambles after the flowers, — and calls him her darling
Horace, — and thinks of her Grey Squire !

She thinks that she sees his mantle descending
upon her boy !

She thinks of him with the chastened pleasure of a
memory that has lost its pang.

Thinks of the smiling days before it all began : —

Of that sunlight everywhere, of that land where it
was a bliss to live ! — thinks of those days, when she

was young and lie was strong, — and they took their
way together — by hill and dell — by rock and shore, —
thinks of the joys of those long wanderings, — of the
delights of those long teachings, — of the charm of that
companion, — of the tenderness of that true friend.

Ah ! poor Mr. Mildew ! " sighs Lady Lau.re, — her
hand still amongst her boy's brown curls"'

Who was that, mother ? "

A wise good man, Horace, who loved all birds and
beasts and flowers, — just as you do."

Where is he, mother ? " cries the boy.

She turns the bright young face up to her's, and
gives it again a mother's kiss.

^ " He is with God, my child," says Lady Laure ;
and you have his name, — he too was Horace."

Poor Mr. Mildew ! — poor generous soul ! Did he
not feel it ? did he not kno^^■ it ? — know — that Lady
Laure's first love was her Grey Squire !

A gentle love, which had no meaning beyond the
burst of the rosebud to its new-found world, — which
had no passion but its own sweet gratitude, — a glowworm
flame, which prepared her maiden heart for the
fiercer fires, which too soon were to come by.

From the first, a dim instinct of this may have
been at the bottom of Lorraine's implacable resentment
at the man's name, and at everything concerning him.

For all his indifference, and in spite of his own
Friendship and Love, Lorraine was the last man to
endure his rivals with patience ; — rivals with any success,
— rivals who unknown to him, had broken up the
ground before him ; — a more unpardonable offence,
possibly, than trenching upon territory that he had
been the first to appropriate, and appraise.

With such men, the thought is the thing !

Lorraine could take the poor loveless ghost of the
little Timon by the hand, and to his heart. But never
^ilr. Mildew !

Laure," says Lorraine, " why do you let that boy
of yours run wild as lie does ? He grows as solitary
as Uncle Loftus ; — there is not a spark of spirit in him ! "

Ah, Claude !" cries Lady Laure, forgetting all her
married tactics ; " you do not love Horace, — why is it ? "

Why," says Lorraine, with a frown — " why did
you give him that name ? "

FINIS.

LONDON: Printed BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,
STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

Imported by Messrs. Sampson Low & Co. can

be had on application.

Crown Buildings, i88, Fled Street, London ^
April, 1880.

9 selection from t&e Sit of aSoofeeJ

PUBLISHED BY

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston.

ALPHABETICAL LIST.

A CLASSIFIED Educational Catalogue of Works 
wished in Great Britain. Demy 8vo, cloth extra. Second Edition,

revised and corrected to Christmas, 1879, 5^.
About (Ed??iond). See " The Story of an Honest Man."
About Some Fellows. By an Eton Boy, Author of ''A Day

of my Life." Cloth limp, square imo, 2s. 6d.
Adventures of Captain Ago. A Phoenician's Explorations

1000 years B.C. By Leon Cahun. Numerous Illustrations. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, ^s. 6d. ; plainer binding, 5^.
Adventures of a Young Naturalist. By Lucien Biart, with

117 beautiful Illustrations on Wood. Edited and adapted by Parker

GiLLMORE. Post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges. New Edition, is. 6d.
Afghan Knife the). A Novel. By Robert Armytage

Sterndale, Author of " Seonee." Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Afghanistan aid the Afghans. Being a Brief Review of the

History of the Country, and Account of its People. By H. W.

Belle, C.S.I. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Alcott louisa 31.) Jimmy s Cruise in the " Pinafore." With 9

Illustrations. Second Edition. Small post 8vo, cloth gilt, 3^. 6d.
Aunt Jo's Scrap-Bag. Square imo, 2S. 6d.

(Rose Library, is. )

Little Mei : Life at Phunfield with Jds Boys. Small

postSvo, cloth, gilt edges, 3^. 6d. (Rose Library, Double vol. little

JVo?nen. i vol., cloth, gilt edges, 3^. 6d. (Rose

Library, 2 vols., is. each.)

Alcott louisa M.) Old-fashioned Girl. Best Edition, small
post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 3^. dd. (Rose Library, 2s. )

Work aid Beginning Again. A Story of Experience.

Experience, i vol., small post 8vo, cloth extra, several Illustrations.
(Rose Library, 2 vols., \s. each.)

Shawl Straps. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 35. dd.

Eight Cousins; or, the Audit Hill. Small post 8vo,

with Illustrations, 3^. 6d.

The Hose in Bloom. Small post 8vo, cloth extra,

1$. 6d.

Silver Pitchers. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 3^. dd.

Under the Lilacs. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 5^.

yack and yUl. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 5^.

"Miss Alcott's stories are thoroughly healthy, full of racy fun and humour . . .
exceedingly entertaining We can recommend the ' Eight Cousins. '"—
Athenaeum.

Alpine Ascents and Adventures ; or, Rock and Snow Sketches.
By H. ScHUTZ Wilson, of the Alpine Club. With Illustrations by
Whimper and Marcus Stone. Crown 8vo, lor. dd. 2nd Edition.

Andersen hans Christian) Fairy Tales. With Illustrations in

Colours by E. V. B. Royal 4to, cloth, 25^.
Ani}?ials Painted by Themselves. Adapted from the French of

Balzac, Georges Sands, &c., with 200 Illustrations by Granville.

8vo, cloth extra, gilt, ioj. dd.

Art Education. See '^ Illustrated Text Books."

Art in the Mountains : The Story of the Passion Play. By
Henry Blackburn, Author of "Artists and Arabs," "Breton
Folk," &c. With numerous Illustrations, and an Appendix for
Travellers, giving the Expenses of the Journey, Cost of Living, Routes
from England, &c Map, and Programme for 1880. 4to, cloth, loj-. dd.
Of the many previous accounts of the play, none, we are disposed to think,
recalls that edifying and impressive spectacle with the same clearness and
vividness as Mr. Blackburn's volume." — Guardian.

He writes in excellent taste, and is interesting from the first page to the
last." — Saturday Review.

Art of Reading Aloud {TJie) in Pulpit, Lcctm-e Room, or Private
Reunions. By G. Vandenhoff, M. A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ds.
Art Treasures in the South Kensington Museum. Published,
with the sanction of the Science and Art Department, in Monthly
Parts, each containing 8 Plates, price is. In this series are included
representations of Decorative Art of all countries and all times from
objects iu the South Kensington Museum, under the following classes:— "

Sculpture : Works in Marble, Ivory, and Terra-cotta.

Bronzes: Statuettes, Medallions, Plaques, Coins.

Decorative Painting and Mosaic.

Decorative Furniture and Carved Wood-Work.

Ecclesiastical Metal Work.

Gold and Silversmiths' Work and Jewellery.

Limoges and Oriental Enamels.

Pottery of all Countries.

Glass : Oriental, Venetian, and German.

Ornamental Iron Work : Cutlery.

Textile Fabrics : Embroidery and Lace.

Decorative Bookbinding.

Original Designs for Works of Decorative Art.

Views of the Courts and Galleries of the Museum.

Architectural Decorations of the Museum.
The Plates are carefully printed in atlas 8vo (13 in. by 9 in), on
thick ivory-tinted paper ; and are included in a stout wrapper, ornamented
with a drawing from " The Genoa Doorway " recently acquired
by the Museum.

Asiatic Turkey : being a Narrative of a Journey from Bombay
to the Bosphorus. By Grattan Geary, Editor of the Tunes of India.
2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, with many Illustrations, and a Route
Map, 2%s.

Australian Abroad [The). Branches from the Alain Routes
Round the World. Comprising the Author's Route through Japan,
China, Cochin-china, Malaria, Sunday, Java, Torres Straits, Northern
Australia, New South Wales, South Australia, and New Zealand. By
James Kingston ("J. H." of \.\\^ Melbourne Argus). With Maps
and numerous Illustrations from Photographs. 2 vols., 8vo, \\s. each.

Autobiography of Sir G. Gilbert Scott, R.A., F.S.A., accredited
by his Son, G. Gilbert Scott. With an Introduction by the
Dean of Chichester, and a Funeral Sermon, preached in Westminster
Abbey, by the Dean of Westminster. Also, Portrait on
steel from the portrait of the Author by G. RICHMOND, R.A. I vol.,
demy Svo, cloth extra, iSj.

JDAKER lieut-gen, Valentine, Pasha). See "War in
J^ Bulgaria."

THE BAYARD SERIES,

Edited by the late J. Hain Friswell.

Comprising Pleasure Books of Literature produced in the Choicest Style as
Companionable Volumes at Home and Abroad.
We can hardly imagine better books for boys to read or for men to ponder
over." — Times.

Price 2S. 6d. each Volume, complete in itself, flexible cloth extra, gilt edges,
with silk Headbands and Registers.

The Story of the Chevalier Bayard. By M. De Servile.
De Joinville' s St. Lou is ^ King of France,

A 2

The Bayard Series (continued) : —

nie Essays of Abraham Cowley, including all his Prose Works.

Abdallah ; or the Four Leaves. By Edward Laboullaye.

Table Talk and Opinions of Napoleon Buonaparte.

Vathek : An Oriental Romance. By William Beckford.

The Ki?ig aid the Commons. A Selection of Cavalier and
Puritan Songs. Edited by Prof. MoRLEY.

Words of Wellington : Maxims and Opinions of the Great
Duke.

Dr. Johnson'' s Tassels, Prince of Abyssinia. With Notes.

LLazliifs Round Table. With Biographical Introduction.

The Religio Medici, Hydriotaphia, and the Letter to a Friend.
By Sir Thomas Browne, Kent.

Ballad Poetry of the Affections. By Robert Buchanan.

Coleridge's Christened, and other Imaginative Poems. With
Preface by Algerian C. Swinburne.

Lord Chesterfield's Letters, Sentences, and Maxims. With
Introduction by the Editor, and Essay on Chesterfield by M. DE Ste. -
Veuve, of the French Academy.

Essays in Mosaic. By Thos. Ballantyne.

My Uncle Toby ; his Story and his Friends. Edited by
P. Fitzgerald.

Reflections ; or. Moral Sentences and Maxims of the Duke de
la Rochefoucauld.

Socrates : Memoirs for English Readers from Xenophon's Memorabilia.
By Edw. Levied.

Prince Albert Golden Precepts.

A Case containing \<i Volumes, price 315. 6^. ; or the Case separately, price 3J. 6d.

Beauty and the Beast. An Old Tale retold, with Pictures by
E. V. B. 4to, cloth extra. 10 Illustrations in Colours. 12s. 6d.

Bearers' German Copybooks. In six gradations at \d. each.

Biart {Liicien). See "Adventures of a Young Naturalist,"
My Rambles in the New World," "The Two Friends," " Involuntary
Voyage."

BickerstetlCs Hymnal Companion to Book of Common Prayer
may be had in various styles and bindings from \d. to 2IJ. Price
List and Prospectus will be forwarded on application.

Bickersteth rev. E. H., MA.) The Reef and other Parables.

I vol. , square 8vo, with numerous very beautiful Engravings, 2s. 6d.
The Clergyman in his Home. Small post 8vo, \s.

The Master's Home Call : or, Brief Memorials of

Alice Frances Bickersteth. 20th Thousand. 32mo, cloth gilt, is.

The Afastet^s Will. A Funeral Sermon preached

on the Death of Mrs. S. Gummy Buxton. Sewn, dd. ; cloth gilt, \s.
The Shadow of the Rock. A Selection of Religious

Poetry. imo, cloth extra, is. 6d.

The Shadowed Home and the Light Beyond. 7th

Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5^.
Bid. The Authorized Version of the Four Gospels, with the
whole of the magnificent Etchings on Steel, after drawings by M.
BiDA, in 4 vols,, appropriately bound in cloth extra, price 3/. 3^. each.
Also the four volumes in two, bound in the best morocco, by Suitably,
extra gilt edges, 18/. i8j'., half morocco, 12/. 12s.

Bid's Illustrations of the Gospels of St. Matthew and St. John have already
received here and elsewhere a full recognition of their great merits." — Themes.

Biographies of the Great Artists, Illustrated. This Series is
issued in the form of Handbooks. Each is a Monograph of a Great
Artist, and contains Portraits of the Masters, and as many examples
of their art as can be readily procured. They are Illustrated with from
16 to 20 Full-page Engravings. Cloth, large crown 8vo, sid per
Volume.

Titian. Rules. Tintoret and Veronese.

Rembrandt. Leonardo, Hog-art.

Raphael. Turner. Michelangelo.

Van Deck and Hals. The Little Masters. Reynolds.

Holbein. Delaroche& Vernet. Gainsborough.

Figure Painters of Holland,

"A deserving Series, based upon recent German publications." — Edinburgh
Rez'ieiv.

Most thoroughly and tastefully edited." — Spectator.

Black {Wm.) Three Feathers. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6j.

Lady Silver dales Sweetheart, and other Stories, i vol.,

small post 8vo, 6s.

Riley : a Novel. Small post 8vo, cloth, 6r.

In Silk Attire. 3rd Edition, small post 8vo, 6j-.

• A Daughter of Heth. nth Edition, small post Svo, ()S.
Sunrise. 15 Monthly Parts, \s. each.

Blackmore (i?. Z>.) Lorna Doone. loth Edition, cr. 8vo, 6s.

Alice Lorraine, i vol., small post 8vo, 6th Edition, ds,

Clara Vaughan. Revised Edition, ds.

Crack Powell. New Edition, ds.

Cripps the Carrier. 3rd Edition, small post 8vo, ds.

Mary Waverley. 3 vols., 31^. dd.

Enema ; or, My Father's Sin. With 12 Illustrations,

small post 8vo, fjs.

Blossoms from the King's Garden : Sermons for Children. By
the Rev. C. Banquet. 2nd Edition, small post Svo, cloth extra, 6j.

Blue Banner the); or, The Adventures of a Mussulman, a
Christian, and a Pagan, in the time of the Crusades and Mongol
Conquest. Translated from the French of Leon Cahun. With
Seventy-six Wood Engravings. Imperial l6mo, cloth, gilt edges,
7 J. 6d. ; plainer binding, 5^.

Boss Froissart the), js. 6d. See "Froissart."

Brave Ja?iet: A Story for Girls. By Alice Lee. With
Frontispiece by M. Ellen Edwards. Square Svo, cloth extra, 3^. dd.

Brave Men in Action. By S. J. Mackenna. Crown Svo,
480 pp., cloth, los. dd.

Brazil: the Amazons, and the Coast. By Herbert H. SiMITH.
With 115 Full-page and other Illustrations. Demy Svo, 650 pp., 2\s.

Brazil and the Brazilians. By J. C. Fletcher and D. P.
Kidder. 9th Edition, Illustrated, Svo, 2\s.

Breton Folk: An Artistic Tour in Brittany. By Henry
Blackburn, Author of "Artists and Arabs," "Normandy Picturesque,"
&c. With 171 Illustrations by Randolph Caldecott.
Imperial Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 21s.

British Goblins : Welsh Folk Lore, Fairy Mythology, Legends,
and Traditions. By WiRT Sykes, United States Consul for Wales.
With Illustrations by J. H. Thomas. This account of the Fairy
Mythology and Folk-Lore of his Principality is, by permission, dedicated
to Her. II. the Prince of Wales. Second Edition. Svo, iSj.

British Philosophers.

Buckle henry Thomas) The Life aid Writings of By Alfred

Henry IIuth. With Portrait. 2 vols., demy Svo.
Burney capt.) See "On Horseback."

Burnham Beeches {LTeath, F. G.). With numerous Illustrations
and a Map. Crown Svo, cloth, gilt edges, 3.?. 6d. Second Edition.

"Writing with even more than his usual brilliancy, Mr. Heath here gives the
public an interesting monograph of the splendid old trees. . . . This charming
little work," — Close.

Butler ( W. F.) The Great Lone Land; an Account of the Red
River Expedition, 1869-70. With Illustrations and Map. Fifth and
Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7^. 6d.

The Wild North Land; the Story of a Whiter journey

with Dogs across Northern North America. Demy Svo, cloth, with
numerous Woodcuts and a Map, 4th Edition, iSj. Cr. 8yo, 'js. dd.
Akini-foo : the History of a Failure. Demy Svo, cloth,

2nd Edition, i6j. Also, in crown Svo, 7j-. 6t/.

nADOGAN lady A.) Illustrated Games of Patience.

^ Twenty-four Diagrams in Colours, with Descriptive Text. Foolscap
4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 3rd Edition, \2s. 6d.

Caldecott {P.). See " Breton Folk."

Carbon Process {A Manual of). See Liesegang.

Ceramic Art. See Jacquemart.

Changed Cross the), and other Religious Poems. imo, 2s. 6d.

Chant Book Companion to the Book of Common Prayer. Consisting
of upwards of 550 Chants for the Daily Psalms and for the
Canticles ; also Kyrie Lessons, and Music for the Hymns in Holy
Communion, &c. Compiled and Arranged under the Musical Editorship
of C. J. Vincent, Mus. Bac. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d. ; Organist's
Edition, cap. 4to, 5^,

0/ various Editions of Hymnal Companion, Lists will be forwarded on
application.

Child of the Cavern {T7ie) ; or. Strange Doings Underground,
By Jules Verne. Translated by W. H. G. Kingston. Numerous
Illustrations. Sq. cr. Svo, gilt edges, ']s. 6d. ; cl., plain edges, 5^.

Child's Play, with 1 6 Coloured Drawings by E. V. B. Printed
on thick paper, with tints, 7^. 6d.

Neiti. By E. V. B. Similar to the above. See New.

Children's Lives and Slow to Preserve Them ; or, The Nursery
Handbook. By W. Lamas, M. D. Crown Svo, cloth, children's

Magazine. Illustrated. See St. Nicholas.

Choice Editions of Choice Books. 2s. 6d. each, Illustrated by
C. W. Cope, R.A., T. Keswick, R.A., E. Duncan, Birket
Foster, J. C. Horsey, A.R.A., G. Hicks, R. Redgrave, R.A.,
C. Stonehouse, F. Taylor, G. Thomas, H. J. Townshend,
E. H. Werner, Harrison Weir, &c.

Bloomfield's Farmer's Boy.
Campbell's Pleasures of Hope.
Coleridge's Ancient Mariner.
Goldsmith's Deserted Village.
Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield
Gray's Elegy in a Churchyard.
Neat's Eve of St. Agnes,

Milton's L' Allegro.

Poetry of Nature. Harrison Weir.

Rogers' (Sam. ) Pleasures of Memory.

Shakespeare's Songs and Sonnets.

Tennyson's May Queen.

Elizabethan Poets.

Wordsworth's Pastoral Poems.

Such works are a glorious beatification for a ^o&i."—AtIienc£um.

Christ in Song. By Dr. Philip Chaff. A New Edition,

Revised, cloth, gilt edges, 6s,
Cobbett ( William). A Biography. By Edward Smith. 2

vols,, crown 8vo, 25J.
Comedy the) of Europe iso — 1890. A retrospective and

prospective Sketch. Crown 8vo, ds.
Conflict of Christianity with Heathenism. By Dr. Gerhard

Unshorn. Edited and Translated from the Third German Edition

by G. C. Smyth and C. J. H. Ropes. 8vo, cloth extra, loj-. dd.
Continental Tour of Eight Days for Forty-four Shillings. By

a Journey-man. imo, ij.

"The book is simply delightful." — Spectator.

Core the). See " Forbidden Land."

Covert Side Sketches: Thoughts 07i Hunting, with Different

Packs in Different Countries. By J. Nevitt Pitt (H.H.of the Sporting

Gazette, late of the Field). 2nd Edition. Crown Svo, cloth, los. 6d.
Trade-Land of Arts and Creeds ; or Nothing New tinder the

Sun. By Charles J. Stone, Barrister-at-law, and late Advocate,

High Courts, Bombay, Svo, pp. 420, cloth, 14J.

Cripps the Carrier. 3rd Edition, 6s. See Blackmore.

Cruise ofH.M.S. '' Challenger'' the). By W. J. J. Spry, Ren.
With Route Map and many Illustrations. 6th Edition, demy Svo, cloth,
iSj. Cheap Edition, crown Svo, some of the Illustrations, 7^-. dd.

Curious Adventures of a Field Cricket. By Dr. Ernest
Candf.ze. Translated by N. D' An vers. With numerous fine
Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 7^. 6d.

T^ANA {R. H) Two Years before the Mast and Twenty-four
^-^ years After. Revised Edition with Notes, imo, 6s.
Daughter {A) of Heth. By W. Black. Crown Svo, ds.

Day of My Life {A) ; or, Every Day Experiences at Eton.
By an Eton Boy, Author of "About Some fellows." imo, cloth
extra, is. 6d. 6th Thousand.

Day out 0; the Life of a Little Maiden {A) : Six Studies from
Life. By Sheer and Angler. Large 4to, in portfolio, 5^.

Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid. Crown Svo, 6s.

Dick Cheveley : his Fortunes arid Misfortunes. By W. H. G.
Kingston. 350 pp., square imo, and 22 full-page Illustrations.
Cloth, gilt edges, ^s. 6d.

Dick Sands, the Boy Captain. By Jules Verne. With
nearly 100 Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt edges, los. 6d.

Dodge mrs. AT.) Bans Brisker; or, the Silver Skates. An
entirely New Edition, with 59 Full-page and other Woodcuts.
Square crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5^, ; Text only, paper, u.

Dogs of Assize. A Legal Sketch-book in Black and White.
Containing 6 Drawings by Walter J. Allen. Folio, in wrapper, bs. Sd.

Might Cousins. See Alcott.

E

Eldmiiir: An Art-Story of Scottish Home-life Scenery, and
Incident. By Jacob Thompson, Jun. Illustrated with Engravings
after Paintings of Jacob Thompson. With an Introductory Notice
by Llewellyn Hewitt, Fas. A., &c. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, I4J-.

Elinor Dryden. By Mrs. Macquoid. Crown 8vo, ds.

Embroidery handbook of). By L. Higgins. Edited by Lady
Marian Afford, and published by authority of the Royal School of
Art Needlework. With 16 page Illustrations, Designs for Borders,
&c. Crown Svo, english

Catalogue of Books the). Published during 1863 to
1871 inclusive, comprising also important American Publications. 30J-.
*#* Of the previous Volume, 1835 to 1862, very few remain on
sale; as also of the Index Volume, 1837 to 1857.

Supplements, 1863, 1864, 1865, 3^. 6d. each; 1866

to 1880, 5J-. each.
English Writers, Chapters for Self-improvement in English

Literature. By the Author of "The Gentle Life," 6j-. ; smaller

edition, zs. 6d.

English Philosophers. A Series of Volumes containing short
biographies of the most celebrated English Philosophers, designed to
direct the reader to the sources of more detailed and extensive criticism
than the size and nature of the books in this Series would permit.
Though not issued in chronological order, the series will, when
complete, constitute a comprehensive history of English Philosophy.
Two Volumes will be issued simultaneously at brief intervals, in square
l6mo, price 2s. 6d.

The following are already arranged : —
Bacon. Professor Fowler, Professor of Logic in Oxford.
Berkeley. Professor T. li. Green, Professor of Moral Philosophy,

Oxford.
Hamilton. Professor Monk, Professor of Moral Philosophy, Dublin.
J. S. Mill. Miss Helen Taylor, Editor of "The Works of

Buckle," &c.
Manse. Rev. J. H. HUCKIN, Dad., Head Master of Repton.
Adam Smith. Mr. J. A. Farmer, M.A., Author of "Primitive

Manners and Customs."

E77gUsh Philosophers continued : —

Hobbes. Mr, A. H. Posset, B.A., Fellow of New College, Oxford.
Bentham. Mr. G. E. Buckle, M. A., Fellow of All Souls', Oxford.
Austin. Mr. Harry Johnson, B.A., late Scholar of Queen's

College, Oxford.
Hartley." ^ Mr. E. S. BoWEN, B.A., late Scholar of New College,
James Mill. ) Oxford.

Shaftesbury. |
Hutchison. )

Erchovienon ; or, The Republic of Materialism. Small post

8vo, cloth, jeremy
; or, My Father's Sin. See Blackmore.

Eton. See " Day of my Life," " Out of School," " About Some

Fellows'"
Evans (C.) Over the Hills and Far Away. By C. Evans.

One Volume, crown 8vo, cloth extra, los". 6^.
A Strange Friendship. Crown 8vo, cloth, ^s.

rpAMILY Prayers for Working Men. By the Author of
■*■ " Steps to the Throne of Grace." With an Introduction by the

Rev. E. H. BiCKERSTETii, M.A. Cloth, is. ; sewed, 6d.

Fern Paradise the): A Plea for the Culture of Ferns. By F. G.
Heath. New Edition, entirely Rewritten, Illustrated with Eighteen
full-page, numerous other Woodcuts, including 8 Plates of Ferns and
Four Photographs, large post 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, \2s. 6d. Sixth
Edition. In 12 Parts, sewn, is. each.

This charming Volume will not only enchant the Fern-lover, but will also
please and instruct the general reader." — Spectator.

Fern World the). By F. G. Heath. Illustrated by Twelve
Coloured Plates, giving complete Figures (Sixty-four in all) of every
Species of British Fern, printed from Nature ; by several full-page
Engravings. Cloth, gilt, 6th Edition, Is. 6d. In 12 parts, is. each.
Mr. Heath has really given us good, well-written descriptions of our native
Ferns, with indications of their habitats, the conditions under which they grow
naturally, and under which they may be cultivated. " — AtheticBtim.

Fern {A) Hints on Proving Wills. Enlarged Edition, ij-.

First Steps in Conversational French Grammar. By F. Julien.
Being an Introduction to " Petites Lc9ons de Conversation et de
Grammaire," by the same Author. Cap. 8vo, 128 pp., is.

Five Years in Minnesota. By Maurice Farrar, M.A.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, flooding
of the Sahara the). See Mckenzie.
Food for the People ; or, Lentils aid other Vegetable Cookery.

By E. E. Orlebar. Third Thousand. Small post 8vo, boards, is.

A Foots Errand. By One of the Fools. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 5^.

Footsteps of the Master. See Stowe (Mrs. Beecher).

Forbidden Land {A) : Voyages to the Core. By G. Pert.
Numerous Illustrations and Maps. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 2ij.

Four Lectures on Electric Induction. Delivered at the Royal
Institution, 1878-9. By J. E. H. Gordon, B.A. Cantab. With
numerous Illustrations. Cloth limp, square imo, y.

Foreign Countries and the British Colonies. Edited by F. S.
Pulling, M.A., Lecturer at Queen's College, Oxford, and formerly
Professor at the Yorkshire College, Leeds. A Series of small Volumes
descriptive of the principal Countries of the World by well-known
Authors, each Country being treated of by a Writer who from
Personal Knowledge is qualified to speak with authority on the Subject.
Ie Volumes will average 180 crown 8vo pages, will contain Maps,
and, in some cases, a few typical Illustrations.

The following Volumes are in preparation : —

Franc maude Jane). The following form one Series, small
post 8vo, in uniform cloth bindings : —

Emilfs Choice, ^s.

Hairs Vineyard. 45-.

John's Wife : a Story of Life in South Australia. 4^,

Marian ; or, the Light of Some 0?ie's ILome, 5^.

■■ Silken Cords and Iron Fetters. 45.

Vermont Vale. 5^.

Minnie's Mission, ^s.

Little Mercy, ^s.

Beatrice Melton. 4J.

Friends and Foes in the Transfer : An Englishwoman's Experiences
during the Cape Frontier War of 1877-8. By Helen M.
Richard. Crown 8vo, cloth, vos. 6d.

Froissart {Fhe Boy's). Selected from the Chronicles of England,
France, Spain, &c. By Sidney Lanier. The Volume will
be fully Illustrated. Crown 8vo, cloth, 'js. 6d.

Funny Foreigners and Eccentric Englishmen. 16 coloured
comic Illustrations for Children. Cap. folio, coloured wrapper, \s.

Sampson Lory Marston 6^ Cots

r^ AMES of Patience, *Sd Cadogan.

Gentle Life (Queen Edition). 2 vols, in i, small 4to, vos. 6d.

THE GENTLE LIFE SERIES.

Price 6s. each ; or in calf extra, price los. 6d. ; Smaller Edition, cloth
extra, 2s. 6d.
A Reprint (with the exception of " Familiar Words " and ** Other
People's Windows ") has been issued in very neat limp cloth bindings
at 2s. 6d. each.
Tie Gentle Life. Essays in aid of the Formation of Character
of Gentlemen and Gentlewomen. 21st Edition.

Deserves to be printed in letters of gold, and circulated in every house." —
Chambers yoitrnaL

About in the World. Essays by Author of " The Gentle Life."

It is not easy to open It at any page without finding some handy \Aft2u." — M morning
Post.

Like unto CJwist. A New Translation of Thomas a Kempis'
** De Imitation Christi." 2nd Edition.

Could not be presented in a more exquisite form, for a more sightly volume was
never seen." — Illustrated London News.

Familiar Words. An Index Variorum, or Quotation Handbook.
Affording an immediate Reference to Phrases and Sentences
that have become embedded in the English language. 3rd and
enlarged Edition, ds.

"The most extensive dictionary of quotation we have met with." — Notes and
Queries.

Essays by Montaigne. Edited and Annotated by the Author
of "The Gentle Life." With Portrait. 2nd Edition.

We should be glad if any words of ours could help to bespeak a large circulation
for this handsome attractive book." — Illustrated Tunes.

The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia. Written by Sir Philip
Sidney. Edited with Notes by Author of " The Gentle Life." ']s. 6d.
"All the best things are retained intact in Mr. Friswell's edition." — Examiner.

The Gentle Life. 2nd Series, 8th Edition.

There is not a single thought in the volume that does not contribute in some
measure to the formation of a true gentleman." — Daily News.

The Silent Flour : Essays, Original and Selected. By the
Author of "The Gentle Life." 3rd Edition.
"All who possess 'The Gentle Life ' should own this volume." — Standard.

LLalf-Length Portraits. Short Studies of Notable Persons.

By J. Hain Friswell. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, ds.
Essays on English Writers, for the Self-improvement of

Students in English Literature.

"To all who have neglected te read and study their native literature we would

certainly suggest the volume before us as a fitting introduction." — Examiner,

Hie Gentle Life Series continued : —

Other People's Windows. By J. Hain Friswell. 3rd Edition.

"The chapters are so lively in themselves, so mingled with shrewd views of
human nature, so full of illustrative anecdotes, that the reader cannot laiitobe
amused. " — Morning Post.

A Man's Thoughts. By J. Hain Friswell.

German Primer. Being an Introduction to First Steps ia

German. By M. T. Pre. 2j. dd.
Getting On in the World ; or, Hints on Success i?i Life. By

\V. mathews, LL.D. Small post 8vo, cloth, 2s. dd. ; gilt edges, 3^-. 6</.
Gilpin's Forest Scenery. Edited by F. G. Heath. Large

post 8vo, with numerous Illustrations. Uniform with "The Fern

World" and "Our Woodland Trees." 12s. 6d.

"Those who know Mr. Heath's Volumes on Ferns, as well as his 'Woodland

Trees,' and his little work on ' Burnham Beeches,' will understand the enthusiasm

with which he has executed his task. . . . The Volume deserves to be a favourite

in the boudoir as well as in the library." — Saturday Review.

Gordon {J. E. H.). See " Four Lectures on Electric Induction,"
" Physical Treatise on Electricity' &c.

G Cliff e. The Royal Cookery Book. By Jules Gouffe ; translated
and adapted for English use by Alphonse Gruff£, Head
Pastrycook to her Majesty the Queen. Illustrated with large plates
printed in colours. 161 Woodcuts, 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2/, 2s.

Domestic Edition, half-bound, loj-. dd.

By far the ablest and most complete work on cookery that has eve been submitted
to the gastronomical world." — Pall Mal Gazette.

Gourd (Mille.) Four Gold Pieces. Numerous Illustrations.

Small post Svo, cloth, 2s. 6d. See also Rose Library.
Government of M. Tiers. By Jules Simon. Translated from

the French. 2 vols., demy Svo, cloth extra, 32j.
Great Artists. See Biographies.
Greek Grammar. See Waller.

Guizot History of France. Translated by Robert Black
Super-royal Svo, very numerous Full-page and other Illustrations. In
5 vols., cloth extra, gilt, each 24$-.

It supplies a want which has long been felt, and ought to be in the hands of all
students of history." — Tunes.

Mas son's School Edition. The

History of France from the Earliest Times to the Outbreak of the
Revolution; abridged from the Translation by Robert Black, M. A.,
with Chronological Index, Historical and Genealogical Tables, &c.
By Professor Gustave Mason, B.A., Assistant Master at Harrow
School. With 24 full-page Portraits, and many other Illustrations.
I vol., demy sto, 600 pp., cloth extra, i6s. 6d.

Guizot History of England. In 3 vols, of about 500 pp. each,
containing 60 to 70 Full-page and other Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt,
24^. each.

For luxury of typography, plainness of print, and beauty of illustration, these
volumes, of which but one has as yet appeared in English, will hold their own
against any production of an age so luxurious as our own in everything, typography
not excepted." — Times.

Guy on {Mde.) Life. By Upham. 6th Edition, crown Svo, 6s,

Handbook to the Charities of London. See Low's.

of Embroidery ; which see.

to the Principal Schools of England. See Practical.

JLalf-Hours of Blind Man's Holiday ; or, Sinner and Winter

Sketches in Black & White. ByW. W. Penn. 2 vols., cr. 8vo, 24^-.
Half Length Portraits. Short Studies of Notable Persons.

By J. Hain Friswell. Small post 8vo, 6s. ; Smaller Edition, is. 6d.
LLall {W. W.) Hou to Live Long; or, 1408 Health Maxims,

Physical, Mental, and Moral. By W. W. Hall, A.M., M.D.

Small post 8vo, cloth, is. Second Edition.
Plans Drinker; or, the Silver Skates. See Dodge.

Have L a Vote ? A Handy Book for the Use of the People,
on the Qualifications conferring the Right of Voting at County and
Borough Parliamentary Elections. With Forms and Notes. By
T. H. Lewis, B.A., LL.B. Paper, 6^.

Heart of Africa. Three Years' Travels and Adventures in the
Unexplored Regions of Central Africa, from 1868 to 1 87 1. By Dr.
George Schweinfurth. Numerous Illustrations, and large Map.
2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth, \<^s.

Heath francis George). See " Fern World," " Fern Paradise,"
"Our Woodland Trees," "Trees and Ferns;" "Gilpin's Forest
Scenery," " Burnham Beeches," "Sylvan Spring," &c.

LLeber's (Bishop) Illustrated Edition of LLymiis. With upwards
of 100 beautiful Engravings. Small 4to, handsomely bound, 7j. dd.
Morocco, i8x. dd. and2ij. An entirely New Edition.

Hector Sei'vadac. *S"^^ Verne. 10^. 6^. and 5^.

Lleir of Kilfin7ia7i the). New Story by W. H. G. Kingston,
Author of " Snow Shoes and Canoes," " With Axe and Rifle," &c.
With Illustrations. Cloth, gilt edges, "js. 6d.

History and Handbook of Photography. Translated from the
French of Gaston Islander. Edited by J. Thomson. Imperial
l6mo, over 300 pages, 70 Woodcuts, and Specimens of Prints by the
best Permanent Processes. Second Edition, with an Appendix by
the late Mr. Henry Fox Talbot. Cloth extra, 6j.

History of a Crime the) ; Deposition of an Eye-witness. By
Victor Hugo. 4 vols., crown 8vo, 42J- Cheap Edition, i vol., 6j.

England. See Guizot.

• '- France. See Guizot.

of Russia, ee Rambled.

Alc7xhant Shipping. See Lindsay.

United States. See Bryant.

— Ireland. Standish Grady. Vols. I. and IT., 75. 6^.

each.

American Literature. By M. C. Tyler. Vols. I.

and II., 2 vols, 8vo, 24J-.
History and Principles of Weaving by Hand and by Power. With

several hundred Illustrations. By Alfred Barlow. Royal 8vo,

cloth extra, i/. second Edition.
Hitherto. By the Author of" The Gayworthys." New Edition,

cloth extra, 3j-. dd. Also, in Rose Library, 2 vols., 2s.
Home of the Edda. By C. G. Lock. Demy 8vo, cloth, its.
How to Live Long. See Hall.
How to get Strong and how to Stay so. By William Bailie.

A Manual of Rational, Physical, Gymnastic, and other Exercises.

With Illustrations, small post 8vo, worthy
of every one's attention, whether old or young." — Graphic.

Hugo ( Victor) 'ninety-Three:' Illustrated. Crown 8vo, ds.

Toilers of the Sea. Crown 8vo. Illustrated, 6s.; fancy

boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d. ; On large paper with all the original
Illustrations, los. 6d.

See " History of a Crime."

Hundred Greatest Men the). 8 vols., containing 15 to 20
Portraits each, 2\s. each. See below.

"Messrs. Sampson Low & Co. are about to issue an important 'International'
work, entitled, 'THE HUNDRED GREATEST MEN:' being the Lives and
Portraits of the lOo Greatest Men of History, divided into Eight Classes, each Class
to form a Monthly Quarto Volume The Introductions to the volumes are to be
written by recognized authorities on the different subjects, the English contributors
been,' Dean Stanley, Mr. Matthew Arnold, Mr. Froude, and Professor Max
Muller: in Germany, Professor Helmholtz; in France, MM. Taine and
Renal ; and in America, Mr. Emerson. The Portraits are to be Reproductions
from fine and rare Steel Engravings," — Academy.

Hygiene and Public Health {A Treatise on). Edited by A. H.

Buck, M.D. Illustrated by numerous Wood Engravings. In 2

royal 8vo vols., cloth, one guinea each.
Hymnal Companion to Book of Common Prayer. See

ElCKERSTETH.

Illustrated Text-Books of Art-Education. A Series
•^ of Monthly Volumes preparing for publication. Edited by Edward
J. Pointer, R. A., Director for Art, Science and Art Department.

TAe first Volumes, large crozvn Svo, cloth, 3 j. 6(/. each, will be issued in the

following divisions : —

PAINTING.

Classic and Italian. j French and Spanish.

German, Flemish, and Dutch. | English and American.

ARCHITECTURE.

Classic and Early Christian. | Gothic, Renaissance, & Modern.

SCULPTURE.

Classic and Oriental. | Renaissance and Modern.

ORNAMENT.

Decoration in Colour. | Architectural Ornament.

Illustrations of China and its People. By J. Thompson
F.R.G.S. Four Volumes, imperial 4to, each 3/. tes.

In my Indian Garden. By Phil Robinson. With a Preface
by Edwin Arnold, M. A., C.S.I., &c. Crown 8vo, limp cloth, 3^-. 6d.

Involuntary Voyage {A71). Showing how a Frenchman who
abhorred the Sea was most unwillingly and by a series of accidents
driven round the World. Numerous Illustrations. Square crown
8vo, cloth extra, Js. 6d.

Irish Bar. Comprising Anecdotes, Bon-mots, and Biographical
Sketches of the Bench and Bar of Ireland. By J. Frederick
Flanagan, Barrister-at-law. Crown 8vo, I2j. Second Edition.

yACK andyHL By Miss Alcott. Small post 8vo, cloth,
gilt edges, 5^.
facquemart (A.) History of the Ceramic Art. By Albert
Jacquemart. With 200 Woodcuts, 12 Steel-plate Engravings, and
1000 Marks and Monograms. Translated by Mrs. BURY Palliser.
Super-royal Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 28j-.

fiefs Cruise in the Pinafore. See Alcott.

J^AFIRLAND : A Ten Months' Campaign. By Frank N.
Stratified, Resident Magistrate in Kaffraria, and Commandant
of Native Levies during the Kaffir War of 1878. Crown 8 vo, cloth
extra, 7^. dd.

Keble Autograph Birthday Book (The). Containing on each left-hand
page the date and a selected verse from Keble's hymns.
Imperial 8vo, with 12 Floral Chromic, ornamental binding, gilt edges,

Khedive's Egypt ( The) ; or, The old House of Bondage under
New Masters. By Edwin de Leon. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, %s. 6(1.

King's Rifle the): From the Atlantic to the Indian Ocean,
Across Unknown Countries ; Discovery of the Great Zambesi Affluents,
&c. By Major Sera Pinto. With 24 full-page and about 100
smaller Illustrations, 13 small Maps, and i large one. Demy 8vo.

Kingston (IV. H. G.). See " Snow-shoes."

Child of the Cavern.

Two Supercargoes.

With Axe aid Rifle.

Begin's Fortune.

Heir of Kilfinnan.

Dick Cheveley.

T A DY Silverdal^s Sweetheart, ds. 6"^^ Black.

Lenten Meditations. In Two Series, each complete in itself.
By the Rev. Claude Banquet, Author of "Blossoms from the
King's Garden." imo, cloth, First Series, is.dd. ; Second Series, 2s.

Lentils. See " Food for the People."

Liesegang (Dr. Paul E.) A Manual of the Carbon Process of
Photography. Demy 8vo, half-bound, with Illustrations, 4^.

Life and Letters of the Honourable Charles Simmer (The).

2 vols., royal Svo, cloth. Second Edition, 36^.
Lindsay ( W. S.) History of Merchant Shipping and Ancient

Commerce. Over 150 Illustrations, Maps and Charts. In 4 vols.,

demy Svo, cloth extra. Vols, i and 2, 2ij-. ; vols. 3 and 4, 24^. each.
Lion Jack : a Story of Perilous Adventures amongst Wild Men

and Beasts. Showing how Menageries are made. By P. T. Barnum.

With Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, price 6s.

Little King ; or, the Taming of a Young Russian Count. By
S. Brandy. 64 Illustrations. Crown Svo, gilt edges, 7^. 6d. ; plainer
binding, ^s.

Little Mercy; or, For Better for Worse. By Maude Jeanne
Franc, Author of "Marian," "Vermont Vale," &c., &c. Small
post Svo, cloth extra, 4J. Second Edition.

Lo?ig col. C. Caille) Central Africa. Naked Truths of
Naked People : an Account of Expeditions to Lake Victoria Nyanza
and the Mabraka Niam-Niam. Demy Svo, numerous Illustrations, iSj-.

Jj>st Sir Massinger. New Edition, crown Svo, boards, coloured
wrapper, 2J.

Lola's German Series— ^

1. The Illustrated German Primer. Being the easiest introduction

to the study of German for all beginners, is.

2. The Children's own German Book. A Selection of Amusing

and Instructive Stories in Prose. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner.
Small post 8vo, cloth, is. 6d.

3. The First German Reader, for Children from Ten to

Fourteen. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner. Small post 8vo,
cloth, IS. 6d.

4. The Second German Reader. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner.

Small post 8vo, cloth, li'. dd.

Buchheitn's Deutsche Prosa. Vivo Volumes sold separately : —

5. Schiller's Prosa. Containing Selections from the Prosa Works

of Schiller, with Notes for English Students. By Dr. Buchheim,
Small post 8vo, 2s. 6d.

6. Goethe's Prosa. Selections from the Prosa Works of Goethe,

with Notes for English Students. By Dr. Buchheim. Small
post 8vo, 3^. 6d.

Lola's International Series of Toy Books. 6d. each; or
Mounted on Linen, is.

1. Little Fred and his Fiddle, from Asbjorasen's "Norwegian

Fairy Tales."

2. The Lad and the North "Wind, ditto.

3. The Pancake, ditto.

Low's Standard Library of Travel and Adventure. Crown 8vo,
bound uniformly in cloth extra, price "js. 6d.

1. The Great Lone Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.

2. The Wild North Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.

3. How I found Living-stone. By H. M. Stanley.

4. The Threshold of the Unknown Reg-ion. By C. R. Markham.

(4th Edition, with Additional Chapters, los. 6d.)

5. A Whaling Cruise to Baffin's Bay and the Gulf of Boothia.

By A. H. Markham.

6. Campaigning on the Oxus. By J. A. MacGahan.

7. Akim-foo : the History of a Failure. By MAJOR W F.

Butler, Cab.

8. Ocean to Ocean. By the Rev. George M. Grant. With

Illustrations.

9. Cruise of the Challenger. By W. J. J. Spry, Ren.

10. Schweinfurth's Heart of Africa. 2 vols., 15^.

11. Through the Dark Continent. By H. M. Stanley, i vol.,

1 2 J. 6d.

Lou's Standard Novels. Crown 8vo, ds. each, cloth extra.

My Lady Greensleeves. By Helen Matters, Authoress of
Comiii' through the Rye," "Cherry Ripe," &c.

Three Feathers. By William Black.

A Daughter of Heth. 13th Edition. By W. Black. With
Frontispiece by F. Walker, A.R.A.

Ailment. A Novel. By W. Black.

In Silk Attire. By W. BLACK.

Lady Coverdale's Sweetheart. By W. Black.

History of a Crime : The Story of the Coup d'Etat. By Victor

H Hugo.

Alice Lorraine. By R. D. Blackmore.

Lorna Doone. By R. D. Blackmore. 8th Edition.

Crack Powell. By R. D. Blackmore.

Clara Aug-han. By R. D. Blackmore.

Cripps the Carrier. By R. D. Blackmore.

Enema ; or My Father's Sin. By R. D. Blackmore.

Innocent. By Mrs, Oliphant. Eight Illustrations.

Work. A Story of Experience. By LouiSA M. Alcott. Illustrations.
Sec also Rose Library.

The Afg-han Knife. By R. A. Sterndale, Author of " Sconce."

A French Heiress in her own Chateau. By the author of *' One
Only," "Constantia," &c. Six Illustrations.

Ninety-three. By Victor Hugo. Numerous Illustrations.

My Wife and I. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe.

Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark Russell.

Elinor Dryden. By Mrs. Macquoid.

Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid.

Poganuc People, Their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. Beecher
Stowe.

A Golden Sorrow. By ]airs. Castel Holy.

Louis Handbook to the Charities of London. Edited and
revised to date by C. Macedon, F.S.S., Editor of " A Guide to the
Churches of London and its Suburbs," &c. is.

l\/rACGAHAN (/. A.) Campaigning on the Otis, and the
-^^ Fall of Khiva. With Map and numerous Illustrations, 4th Edition,

small post 8vo, cloth extra, 'js. 6d.
Macgregor john) ^^ Rob Roy'' on the Baltic. 3rd Edition,

small post 8vo, is. dd.
A Thousand Miles in the ^^ Rob Roy'^ Canoe, nth

Edition, small post 8vo, zs. dd.

Macgregor {/olui) Description of the '■^ Rob Roy'' Canoe, with
Plans, &c , \s.

The Voyage Alone in the Yawl ^^ Rob Roy New

Edition, thoroughly revised, with additions, small post 8vo, 5^. ;
boards, 2s. 6d.

Mckenzie (Z>). The Flooding of the Sahara. By Donald
Mckenzie. 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, lo. 6^.

Macquoid mrs .) Elinor Dry den. Crown 8vo, cloth, ds.

Diane. Crown 8vo, 6^.

Magazine illustrated) for Young People. See "St. Nicholas."

Markham (C. R.) The Threshold of the Unknown Region.
Crown 8vo, with Four Maps, 4th Edition. Cloth extra, vos. dd.

Maury {Cojninander) Physical Geography of the Sea, and its
Meteorology. Being a Reconstruction and Enlargement of his former
Work, with Charts and Diagrams. New Edition, crown Svo, 6s.

Memoirs of Madame de Reniusat, 1802 — 1808. By her Grandson,
M. Paul de Remusat, Senator. Translated by Mrs. Castel
Hoed and and Mr. John Lille. 4th Edition, cloth extra. This
work was written by Madame de Remusat during the time she
was living on the most intimate terms with the Empress Josephine,
and is full of revelations respecting the private life of Bonaparte, and
of men and politics of the first years of the century. Revelations
which have already created a great sensation in Paris. 8vo, 2 vols. 32^-.

Mei of Alarm : a Gallery of Contemporary Portraits of the most
Eminent Men of the Day taken from Life, especially for this publication,
price IS. 6d. monthly. Vols. I., II., III., and IV., handsomely
bound, cloth, gilt edges, 25J-. each.

Michael Sti'ogoff. vos. 6d. and 5^. 6*^^ Verne.

Milford miss). See " Our Village."

Montaigne's Essays. See "Gentle Life Series."

My Brother Jack ; or, The Story of Whatdyecallem. Written
by Himself. From the French of Alphonse Daudet. Illustrated
by P. PHiLirpoTEAUX. Imperial imo, cloth extra, gilt edges, Is. 6d.;
plainer binding, ^s.

My Lady Greensleeves. By Helen Matters, Authoress of
"Coming' through the Rye," "Cherry Ripe," &c. I vol. edition,
crown Svo, cloth, 6j-.

My Rambles in the New World. By Lucien Biart, Author of
"The Adventures of a Young Naturalist." Numerous full-page
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 1$. dd. ; plainer
binding, 5^.

Mysterious Island. By Jules Verne. 3 vols., imperial T6mo.
150 Illustrations, cloth gilt, kidd each ; elaborately bound, gilt
edges, 7J-. dd. each. Cheap Edition, with some of the Illustrations,
cloth, gilt, 2s. ; paper, is. each.

Stares sir G. S., K.C.B) Narrative of a Voyage to the
-^ * Polar Sea during 1875-76, in ILM.'s Ships "Alert" and "Discovery,"
By Captain Sir G. S. Nares, Ren., K.C.B., F.R.S. Published permission
of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty. With Notes on
the Natural History, edited by H. W. Selden, F.G.S., C.M.Z.S.,
F. Reg. S., Naturalist to the Expedition. Two Volumes, demySvo, with
numerous Woodcut Illustrations, Photographs, &c. 4th Edition, 2/. 2j.

National Music of the World. By the late Henry F. Chorley.
Edited by H. G, Hewlett. Crown Svo, cloth, 8^. dd.

What I have to offer are not a few impressions, scrambled together in the haste
of the moment, but are the result of many years of comparison and experience." —
From the Author's "prelude."

Nc7v Child s Play (A). Sixteen Drawings by E. V. B. Beautifully
printed in colours, 4to, cloth extra, 12s. 6d.

Nev Guinea {A Few Months in). By Octaves C. Stone,
F.R.G.S. With numerous Illustrations from the Author's own
Drawings. Crown Svo, cloth, 12s.

Niv Ireland. By A. M. Sullivan, M.P. for Louth. 2 vols.,
demy 8vo, 30^-. Cheaper Edition, i vol., crown 8vo, 8j. td.

New Novels. Crown Svo, cloth, 10s. 6d. per vol. : —

IJary Waverley. By R. D. Blackmore, Author of " Lorna Doone,"

&c. 3 vols.
The Sisters, By G. Embers, Author of "An Egyptian Princess."

2 vols., imo, 2s. each.
Countess Daphne. By Ria, Authoress of " Vienne " and " Like

Dean's Kiss." 3 vols.
Sunrise. By W\ Black. In 15 Monthly Parts, is. each.
"Wait a Year. By Harriet Bora, Authoress of "A Young

Wife's Story." 3 vols.
Sarah de Berangrer. By Jean Angelo. 3 vols.
The Braes of Yarrow. By C. Gibson. 3 vols.
Elaine's Story. By Maud Sheridan. 2 vols.
Prince Fortune and His Friends. 3 vols.

Noble Words and Noble Deeds, Translated from the French of
E. MULLER, by Dora Leigh. Containing many Full-page Illustrations
by Philippoteaux. Square imperial imo, cloth extra, 1$. 6d.

North Amertca?i Review the). Monthly, price 2S. 6d,

Notes on Fish and Fishing. By the Rev. J. J. Manley, M.A.
With Illustrations, crown 8vo, cloth extra, leatherette binding, vos. 6d.

Nursery Playmates prince of ). 217 Coloured pictures for
Children by eminent Artists. Folio, in coloured boards, 6s.

niBERAMMERGAU Passion Play. See "Art in the
^ Mountains."

Ocean to Ocean : Sandford Flemings Expedition through
Canada in 1872. By the Rev. George M. Grant. With Illustrations.
Revised and enlarged Edition, crown Svo, cloth, 7j. 6d.

Old-fashioned Girl. See Alcott.

Oliphant mrs.) Innocent. A Tale of Modern Life. By Mrs.
Oliphant, Author of "The Chronicles of Carlingford," &c., &c.
With Eight Full-page Illustrations, small post Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

On Horseback through Asia Minor. By Capt. Fred Burney,
Royal Horse Guards, Author of "A Ride to Khiva." 2 vols.,
Svo, with three Maps and Portrait of Author, 6th Edition, 38^. j
Cheaper Edition, crown Svo, ioj-. 6d.

Our Little Ones in Heaven. Edited by the Rev. H. Robbins.
With Frontispiece after Sir Joshua Reynolds. Cap., cloth extra,
New Edition — the 3rd, with Illustrations, 5^.

Our Village. By Mary Russell Milford. Illustrated with

Frontispiece Steel Engraving, and 12 full-page and 157 smaller Cuts
of Figure Subjects and Scenes. Crown 4to, cloth, gilt edges, dis.

Our Woodland Trees. By F. G. Heath. Large post Svo,
cloth, gilt edges, uniform with "Fern World " and " Fern Paradise,"
by the same Author. 8 Coloured Plates (showing leaves of every
British Tree) and 20 Woodcuts, cloth, gilt edges, \2s'. 6d. Third
Edition.

"The book, as a whole, meets a distinct need ; its engravings are excellent, its
coloured leaves and leaflets singularly accurate, and both author and engraver
appear to have been animated by a kindred love of their subject." — Saturday
Review,

pAINTERS of All Schools, By Louis Viardot, and other

•^ Writers. 500 pp., super-royal 8vo, 20 Full-page and 70 smaller
Engravings, cloth extra, 2.^s. A New Edition is issued in Half-crown
parts, with fifty additional portraits, cloth, gilt edges, 31^-. dd.

Palliser [Airs. ) A History of Lace, from the Earliest Period.
A New and Revised Edition, with additional cuts and text, upwards
of 100 Illustrations and coloured Designs. I vol. 8vo, i/. is.

One of the most readable books of the season ; permanently valuable, always interesting,
often amusing, and not inferior in all the essentials of a gift book." — Times.

Historic Devices, Badges, and War Cries. 8vo, i/. \s.

The China Collector's Pocket Companion. With upwards
of icxx) Illustrations of Marks and Monograms. 2nd Edition,
with Additions. Small post 8vo, limp cloth, ^s.

Petites Persons de Conversation et de Grammaire: Oral and
Conversational Method ; being Lessons introducing the most Useful
Topics of Conversation, upon an entirely new principle, &c. By
F. Julien, French Master at King Edward the Sixth's School,
Birmingham. Author of "The Student's French Examiner," " First
Steps in Conversational French Grammar," which see.

Phillips (Z.) Dictionary of Biographical Reference. 8yo,
I/, ws.^d.

Photography history and Handbook of). See Islander.

Physical Treatise on Electricity and Magnet is7n. By J. E. H.
Gordon, B.A. . ^Vith about 200 coloured, full-page, and other
Illustrations. Among the newer portions of the work may be
enumerated : All the more recent investigations on Striae by Scottish
De la Rue, Moulton, &c. An account of Mr. Crooked's recent
researches. Full descriptions and pictures of all the modern Magnetic
Survey Instruments now used at Kew Observatory. Full accounts of
all the modem work on Specific Inductive Capacity, and of the more
recent determination of the ratio of Electric units (v). It is believed
that in respect to the number and beauty of the Illustrations, the work
will be quite unique. 2 vols., 8vo, 36^.

Picture Gallery of British Art (Trie). 2>^ Permanent Photographs
after the most celebrated English Painters. With Descriptive
Letterpress. Vols, i to 5, cloth extra, i8j. each. Vols. 6, 7, and 8,
commencing New Series, demy folio, 3ij-. 6d.

Pinto major Sera). See " King's Rifle."

Placenta Anglo Normannica. The Procedure and Constitution of
the Anglo-norman Courts (William I. — Richard I.), as shown by
Conteni]-)oraneous Records. With Explanatory Notes, &c. By M. M.
BiGELOW. Demy 8vo, cloth, 2\s.

Plutarch's Lives. An Entirely New and Library Edition.
Edited by A. H. Clough, Esq. 5 vols., 8vo, 2/. los.; half-morocco,
gilt top, 3/. Also in i vol., royal 8vo, 800 pp., cloth extra, i8j. ;
half-bound, 21s.

Morals. Uniform with Clough's Edition of " Lives of

Plutarch." Edited by Professor Goodwin. 5 vols., 8vo, 3/. 3^.

Poems of the Lier Life. A New Edition, Revised, with many
additional Poems. Small post 8vo, cloth, ^s.

Pogafiuc People: their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. Beecher
Stowe. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s.

Polar Expeditions. See Koldewey, Markham, MacGahan,
and Nares.

Practical (A) LLa7idhook to the Principal Schools of England.
By C. E. Pascoe. New Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3^. bd.

Prejevalsky (iV! M.) Efvm Kulja. across the Tian Shan to Lob-nor.
Translated by E. Delmar INIorgan, F.R.G.S. Demy 8vo,
with a Map. i6j.

Prince Ditto ; or, The Four-leaved Shamrock. By Fanny W.
Surrey. With 10 Full-page Fac-simile Reproductions of Original
Drawings by Helen O'Hara. Demy 4to, cloth extra, gilt, loj-. 6d.

Publishers' Circular the), and General Record of British and
Foreign Literature. Published on the list and 15th of every Month, 3</.

IDA MB A UD alfred). History of Russia, from its Origin
^*- to the Year 1877. With Six Maps. Translated by Mrs. L. B.
Lang. 2 vols,, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 385-.

Recollections of Writers. By Charles and Mary Bowden
Clarke. Authors of " The Concordance to Shakespeare," &c. ;
with Letters of Charles Lamb, Leigh Hunt, Douglas Ferrol,
and Charles Dickens ; and a Preface by Mary Bowden Clarke.
Crown 8vo, cloth, vos. 6d.

Reminiscences of the War in New Zealand. By Thomas W.
Gudgeon, Lieutenant and Quartermaster, Colonial Forces, Nez.
With Twelve Portraits. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, loj-. 6d.

Remusat madame de). See " Memoirs of."

Robinson phil). See " In my Indian Garden."

Rochefoucauld's Refections. Bayard Series, 2s. 6d.

Rogers (S.) Pleasures of Memory. See " Choice Editions of
Choice Books." 2s. 6d.

Rose in Bloom. See Alcott.

Rose Library the). Popular Literature of all countries. Each
volume, IS. ; cloth, 2s. 6d. Many of the Volumes are Illustrated—

1. Sea-Gull Rock. By Jules Sanded. Illustrated.

2. Little "Women. By Louisa M. Alcott.

3. little Women "Wedded. Forming a Sequel to "Little Women."

4. The House on "Wheels. By Madame de Stole. Illustrated.

5. Little Men. By Louisa M. Alcott. Able. vol., 2s. ; cloth, 3i-. Sd.

6. The Old-fashioned Girl. By Louisa M. Alcott. Double

vol., 2s. ; cloth, 3^. 6d.

7. The Mistress of the Manse. By J. G. Holland.

8. Timothy Titcomb's Letters to Young: People, Single and

Married.

9. Undine, and the Two Captains. By Baron De La Motte

FouQu£. A New Translation by F. E. Bennett. Illustrated.

10. Dray Miller's Dowry, and the Elder's Wife. By Saxe

Holm.

11. The Four Gold Pieces. By Madame Gourd. Numerous

Illustrations.

12. Work. A Story of Experience. First Portion. By Louisa M.

Alcott.

13. Beginning: Again. Being a Continuation of " Woe'; " By

Louisa M. Alcott.

14. Picciola ; or, the Prison Flower, By X. B. Painting.

Numerous Graphic Illustrations

15. Robert's Holidays. Illustrated.

16. The Two Children of St. Domingo. Numerous Illustrations.

17. Aunt Jo's Scrap Bag.

18. Stowe (Mrs. H, B.) The Pearl of Orr's Island.
19. The Minister's Wooing.

20. Betty's Bright Idea.

21. The Ghost in the Mill.

22. Captain Kidd's Money.

23. We and our Neighbours. Double vol., 2s.

24. • My Wife and I. Double vol., 2s. ; cloth, gilt 3^. Cd.

25. Hans Drinker ; or, the Silver Skates.

26. Lowell's My Study Window.

27. Holmes (O. W.) The Guardian Angel.

28. Warner (C. D.) My Summer in a Garden.

The Rose Library continued: —

29. Hitherto. By the Author of " The Gayworthys." 2 vols., \s. each.

30. Helen's Babies. By their Latest Victim.

31. The Barton Experiment. By the Author of " Helen's Babies."

32. Died. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe. Double vol., 2s. Cloth,

gilt, zs. 6d.

33. Warner (C. D.) In the Wilderness.

34. Six to One. A Seaside Story.

Russell {W. H., LL.D) The Tour of the Price of Wales in
India. By W. il. Russell, LL.D. Fully Illustrated by Sydney
P. Hall, M.A. Super-royal 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 5 2j-. 6^'.;
Large Paper Edition, 84J.

Sancta Christina: a Story of the First Century. Ey
*^ Eleanor E. Orlebar. With a Preface by Lh«: Bishop of Winchester.
Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 5^.

Scientific Memoirs: being Experimental Contributions to a
Knowledge of Radiant Energy. By John William Draper, M.D.,
LL.D., Author of "A Treatise on Human Physiology," &c. With
Steel Portrait of the Author. Demy 8vo, cloth, 473 pages, 14^'.

Scott sir G. Gilbert.) See " Autobiography."

Sea Gull Rock. By Jules Sanded, of the French Academy.
Royal imo, with 79 Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt edges. Is. 6d.
Cheaper Edition, cloth gilt, 2s. bd. See also Rose Library.

Sconce : Sporting in the Saturn Range of Central India, aid i?i
the Valley of the Nerbudda. By R. A. Sterndale, F.R.G.S. 8vo,
with numerous Illustrations, dis.

The Serpcfit Charmer: a Tale of the Indian Mutiny. By
Louis Rousselet, Author of "India and its Native Princes."
Numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, Is. 6d. ,
plainer binding, ^s.

Shakespeare {TJie Boudoir). Edited by Henry Wendell.
Carefully blackett for reading aloud ; freed from all objectionable
matter, and altogether free from notes. Price 2.s. 6d. each volume,
cloth extra, gilt edges. Contents : — Vol L, Cymbeline — Merchant of
Venice. Each play separately, paper cover, is. Vol. II., As You
Like It — King Lear — Much Ado about Nothing. Vol. III., Romeo
and Juliet — Twelfth Night — King John. The latter six plays separately,
paper cover, 9^.

Shakespeare Key the). Forming a Companion to "The
Complete Concordance to Shakespeare." By Charles and MarY"
Bowden Clarke. Demy 8vo, 800 pp., 2\s.

Shooting: its Appliances, Practice, and Purpose. By James
Daniel Dougall, F.S.A., F.Z.A. Author of "Scottish Field
Sports," &c. Crown Svo, cloth extra, los. 6d.

"The book is admirable in every way We wish it every success." — Globe.

"A very complete treatise Likely to take high rank as an authority on

shooting." — Daily News.

Silent Hour ( The). See " Gentle Life Series."

Silver Pitchers. See Alcott.

Simon {yules). See " Government of M. Tigers."

Six to One. A Seaside Story. imo, boards, li".

Smith {G.) Assyrian Explorations and Discoveries. By the late
George Smith. Illustrated by Photographs and Woodcuts. Demy
Svo, 6th Edition, I Si-the

Chaldean Account of Genesis. By the late

G. Smith, of the Department of Oriental Antiquities, British Museum.
With many Illustrations. Demy Svo, cloth extra, 6th Edition, i6j-,

Snoiv- Shoes and Canoes ; or, the Adventures of a Fur Hunter
in the Hudson's Bay Territory. By W. H. G. Kingston. 2nd
Edition. With numerous Illustrations. Square crown Svo, cloth
extra, gilt edges, 'js. 6,{. ; plainer binding, 5^.

Songs and Etchings in Shade and Sunshine. By J. E. G.
Illustrated with 44 Etchings. Small 4to, cloth, gilt tops, 2$s.

South Kensington Museum. Monthly li". See " Art Treasures."

Stanley {H. M.) How I Found Livingstone. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, "js. 6d. ; large Paper Edition, lOs. 6d.

'^ My Kalulu," Prince, King, and Slave. A Story

from Central Africa. Crown Svo, about 430 pp. , with numerous graphic
Illustrations, after Original Designs by the Author. Cloth, ^s. 61/.

Coomassie aid Magdalen. A Story of Two British

Campaigns in Africa. Demy Svo, with Maps and Illustrations, xds.

■ ■ — Through the Dark Continent, which see.

St. Nicholas Magazine. 4to, in handsome cover, is. monthly.
Annual Volumes, handsomely bound, 15J. Its special features are,
the great variety and interest of its literary contents, and the beauty

and profuseness of its Illustrations, which surpass anything yet
attempted in any publication for young people, and the stories are by
the best living authors of juvenile literature. Each Part contains, on
an average, 50 Illustrations.

Story without an End. From the German of Carve, by the late
Mrs. Sarah T. Austin. Crown 4to, with 15 Exquisite Drawings
by E. V. B., printed in Colours in Fac-simile of the original Water
Colours ; and numerous other Illustrations. New Edition, is. cl.

square 4to, with Illustrations by Harvey. 2s. 6d.

Stowe mrs. Beecher) Died. Cheap Edition, boards, 2s. Cloth,
gilt edges, 3J. 6d.

Footsteps of the Master. With Illustrations and red

borders. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Geography, with 60 Illustrations. Square cloth, 4^. 6d.

Little Foxes. Cheap Edition, i^. ; Library Edition,

4^-. 6d.

Bettfs Bright Idea. \s.

My Wife a?td I ; or, Harry Henderson s History.

Small post Svo, cloth extra, 6s. *

Minister's Wooing. 5^.; Copyright Series, i^. 6^.; cl, 2s.*

Old Town Folk. 6s. \ Cheap Edition, 2s. 6d,

Old Town Fireside Stories. Cloth extra, 3J-. 6d.

Our Folks at Polemic. 10s. 6d.

We and our Neighbours, i vol., small post Svo, 6s.

Sequel to "My Wife and I."*

Fink and White Tyranny. Small post Svo, 3^. 6d. ;

Cheap Edition, is. 6d. and 2s.

Queer Little People, is. ; cloth, 2s,

CJmnney Corner, is. ; cloth, i^. 6d.

The Pearl of Orr's Island. Crown Svo, 5^.*

Little Pussy Willow. Cap., 2s*

• See also Rose Library.

Stouie mrs. Beecher) Wotnan in Sacred History. Illustrated
with 15 Chromo-lithographs and about 200 pages of Letterpress.
Demy 4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 25J.

Student's French Examiner. By R Julien, Author of " Petites
Lemons de Conversation etdeGrammaire." Square crovvn 8vo, cloth, 2j.

Studies in German Literature. By Bayard Taylor. Edited
by Marie Taylor. With an Introduction by the Hon. George
H. Boer. 8vo, cloth extra, loj-. 6^.

Studies in the Theory of Descent. By Dr. Aug. Weismann,
Professor in the University of Freiburg. Translated and edited by
Raphael Mendoza, F.C.S., Secretary of the Entomological Society
of London. Part I. — "On the Seasonal Dimorphism of Butterflies,"
containing Original Communications by Mr. W. H. Edwards, of
Coalburgh. With two Coloured Plates. Price of Part. I. (to Subscribers
for the whole work only) Zs \ Part IL (6 coloured plates), 16^. ;
Part HI., 6j.

Sugar Beet the). Including a History of the Beet Sugar
Industry in Europe, Varieties of the Sugar Beet, Examination, Soils,
Tillage, Seeds and Sowing, Yield and Cost of Cultivation, Harvesting,
Transportation, Conservation, Feeding Qualities of the Beet and of
the Pulp, &c. By L. S. Ware. Illustrated. 8vo, cloth extra, 21 j.

Sullivan {A. M., M.p). See '' New Ireland."

Sulphuric Acid (A Practical Treatise on the Manufacture of).
By A. G. and C. G. Lock, Consulting Chemical Engineers. With
77 Construction Plates, and other Illustrations.

Sumner (Hon. Charles). See Life and Letters.

Sunrise: A Story of These Times. By William Black,
Author of "A Daughter of Heth," &c. To be published in 15
Monthly Parts, commencing April list, \s. each.

Surgeon s Handbook on the Treatment of Wounded in War. By
Dr. Friedrich Esmarch, Professor of Surgery in the University of
Kiel, and Surgeon-general to the Prussian Army. Translated by
H. H. Glutton, B.A. Cantab, F.R.C.S. Numerous Coloured
Plates and Illustrations, 8vo, strongly bound in flexible leather, i/. %s.

Sylvan Spring. By Francis George Heath. Illustrated by

12 Coloured Plates, drawn by F. E. Hulme, F.L.S., Artist and
Author of " Familiar Wild Flowers;" by 16 full-page, and more than
100 other Wood Engravings. Large post 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, 12s. 6d,

T

^AUCHNITZS English Editions of German Authors.
Each volume, cloth flexible, is. ; or sewed, \s. dd. (Catalogues post
free on application.)

{B^ German and English Dictionary. Cloth, i^. 6d.;

roan, 2s,

French and English. Paper, \s. 6d. ; cloth, 2s. ; roan,

2s. 6d.

Italian and English. Paper, li". 6^. ; cloth, 2S. ;

roan, is. 6d.

Spanish and English. Paper, \s. 6d. ; cloth, 2S. ; roan,

2S. 6d.

JVeuf Testament. Cloth, 2s. ; gilt, 2S. 6d.

Taylor bayard). See " Studies in German Literature."

Textbook {A) of Harmony. For the Use of Schools and
Students. By the late Charles Edward Horsey. Revised for
the Press by Wesley Richards and W. H. Alcott. Small post
8vo, cloth extra, 3J-. 6d.

Through the Dark Continent : The Sources of the Nile ; Around
the Great Lakes, and down the Congo. By Henry M. Stanley.
2 vols., demy 8vo, containing 150 Full-page and other Illustrations,
2 Portraits of the Author, and 10 Maps, 42^. Seventh Thousand.
Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, with some of the Illustrations and Maps.
I vol., Is. 6d.

Tour of the Prince of Wales in India. See Russell.

Trees and Ferns. By F. G. Heath. Crown 8vo, cloth, gilt
edges, with numerous Illustrations, 3^. dd.

"A charming little volume." — Land and Water.

Turkestan. Notes of a Journey in the Russian Provinces of
Central Asia and the Khanates of Bokhara and Roland. By Eugene
Schuyler, Late Secretary to the American Legation, St. Petersburg.
Numerous Illustrations. 2 vols, Svo, cloth extra, 5th Edition, 2/. 2s.

Two Friends. By Lucien Biart, Author of "Adventures of
a Young Naturalist," " My Rambles in the New World," &c. Small
post Svo, numerous Illustrations, gilt edges, ^s. 6d. ; plainer binding, ^s.

Two Supercargoes the) ; or, Adventures in Savage Africa.
By W. II. G. Kingston. Numerous Full-page Illustrations. Square
imperial imo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 7^-. 6d. ; plainer binding, 51.

TIE and Down ; or, Fifty Years'* Experiences in Australia
^ California, New Zealand, India, China, and the South Pacific.

Being the Life History of Capt. W. J. Barry. Written by Himself.

With several Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, %s. 6d.



Jules Verne, that Prince of Sfory-fellers/'—TmEs.

Celebrated Travels and Travellers. 3 vols. Demy 8vo, 600 pp.,
upwards of 100 full-page illustrations, 12s. Gd.; gilt edges, 14s. each : —

(1) The Exploration of the World.

(2) The Great Navigators of the Eighteenth Century.

(3) The Explorers of the Nineteenth' Century, {hv the Press.)

JJ/ALLER rev. C. H.) The Names on the Gates of Pearl,
^^ and other Studies. By the Rev. C. H. Waller, M.A. Second
edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ds.

'- A Grammar and Analytical Vocabulary of the Words in

the Greek Testament. Compiled from Bride's Concordance. For
the use of Divinity Students and Greek Testament Classes. By the
Rev. C. H. Waller, M.A. Part I., The Grammar. Small post 8vo,
cloth, 7.S. 6d. Part II. The Vocabulary, 2s. 6d. *

Adoption and the Covenant. Some Thoughts on

Confirmation. Super-royal imo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Wanderings in the Westcjm Laid. By A. Gendarmes Vivian,
M. P. With many Illustrations from Drawings by Mr. Bierstadt
and the Author, and 3 Maps, i vol., demy 8vo, cloth extra, \%s.

War in Bulgaria : a Narrative of Personal Experiences. By
Lieutenant-general Valentine Baker Pasha. Maps and
Plans of Battles. 2 vols., demy Svo, cloth extra, 2/. 2s.

Warner (C. D.) My Summer in a Garden. Rose Library, is.

Back-log Studies. Boards, is. 6d. ; cloth, 2s.

In the Wilderness. Rose Library, is.

Mummies and Moslems. Svo, cloth, 12s.

Weaving. See " History and Principles.'
Whitney mrs. A. D. T.) Hitherto. Small post Svo, 3^. dd.
and 2J. dd.

Sights and Insights. 3 vols., crown Svo, 31^. dd.

Stammer in Leslie Goldthivait^s Life. Cloth, 35-. 6d.

Wills, A Few Hints on Proving, without Professional Assistance.

By a Probate Court Official. 5th Edition, revised with Forms

of Wills, Residuary Accounts, &c. Cap. Svo, cloth limp, is.
With Axe and Rifle on the Western Prairies. By VV. H. (>.

Kingston. With numerous Illustrations, square crown Svo, cloth,

extra, gilt edges, 7^-. 6d. ; plainer binding, 5^.
Witty and Humorous Side of the English Poets the). With a

variety of Specimens arranged in Periods. By Arthur H. Elliott.

I vol., crown Svo, cloth, loj-. 6d.
Wolsey {C. D., LL.D.) Introduction to the Study of International

Law ; designed as an Aid in Teaching and in Historical

Studies. 5th Edition, demy Svo, swords
of Wellington: Maxims and Opinions, Sentences and

Reflections of the Great Duke, gathered from his Despatches, Letters,

and Speeches (Bayard Series). 2s. 6d.
Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark Russell. 6s. Third

and Cheaper Edition.

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston,
CROWN BUILDINGS 188, FLEET STREET.

V

V

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

^T, ^' 1 ^.

.'•' '^
