OF Thun

IVLR51TY

or ILLINOIS


C4Z7m

vel

% ^OVil

BY THE

HON. MES. Henry W. CHETWYND,

AUTHOR OF

'• LIFE IN A GERMAN VILLAGE," " THE DUTCH COUSIN,"

"A MARCH VIOLET," "BEES AND BUTTERFLIES,"

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON : CHAPMAN and HALL

Limited ji

1886 s^-

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

MRS. Dorian.

CHAPTER I.

There perhaps never was a more bewildered
^ woman than Mrs. Dorriman, a lady whose
j/J mind was apt to be in an attitude of bewilders
ment about most things in this complex world.
- The problems of life weighed very heavily
^ upon her (not only those deeper questions perplexing
to scientific minds, and ranging from
the consumption of gas, and its unexpected
proportions in domestic economy, to the vexed
question of shooting-stars and the influences
^of natural forces), but she was in a measure
Content to remain unenlightened, recognising,

^ VOL. I. B

with some wisdom, that there was so very
much lie could not understand ; it was quite
hopeless to make an effort in any direction.

The immediate cause of her present bewilderment
was a letter from her brother.
This letter, lying upon her lap, had been read
several times, and she held it by one corner
daintily, and ruffled her brow as she looked at
it— much as one might face the differential
calculus while as yet the previous paths of
mathematical intricacy had not been trod.
It was on the west coast of Scotland, and on
a certain day in September, that Mrs. Dorriman
was sitting under a large rowan tree — whose
scarlet berries were beginning to blaze forth
in autumnal beauty ; from where she sat the
sea far away below her was distinctly heard
in its incessant and musical monotony.

Upon one side the fair hills of Skye took
every changing hue under the influence of
sunshine and storm. Every hollow marked atone
time by the vivid sunlight, which cast

such clear sharp and lovely blue shadows,
and again retiring behind a veil of mists;
looking so near and so exquisitely coloured
before rain, and half concealed by threatening
clouds before the bursting of a storm.

Behind Mrs. Dorriman the ground sloped
upwards and was well wooded ; a burn came
rushing and fell down the hill side in the shape
of a waterfall over the cliff; her own house
was small, but well-planned, and was so
sheltered that the flowers of spring, always so
welcome to any one with even a faint sense ol
natural beauty, flourished here to perfection.
By the burn-side a walk wound its way, having
been cut out of the rock, and it went down to
the sea-shore and skirted the cliff till it ended
in a patch of grass, where three stones made a
secure and comfortable seat.

Mrs. Dorriman was one of the women whose
lives have been pursued by perpetual failure.
Her childhood had been a neglected one, her
youth had been the same ; she was hurried

E 2

into a marriage with a man much older than
herself, whom, if she did not dislike, she had
no real love for, and towards whom, when
adversity came, she had nothing to draw her,
for adversity is the highest test of love, and
if there is no deep affection the breath of nonsuccess
kills it at once.

She was sorry when he died ; but she had a
deep-seated feeling that in some way everything
was his own fault — and she blamed him
so much, and was so sorry for herself, that she
had no room for pity. Only when he died
and had given one half reproachful, half imploring
look, a dim sense of some want in
herself and of her injustice came to her, and
she had suddenly bent down and kissed him,
and she was always glad of this ; she had
forgiven him at the last, and had let him
know it.

For some years now she had lived at
Inchbrae, understanding vaguely how she
came to live there, and how her income

arrived. Everything was confusion to her on
this subject. She never knew how it was that
all she had came from her brother. Her
husband had been a wealthy man when she had
married him; and though they had moved from
one place to another, and always seemed to be
going back, instead of going forward, still it
seemed strange to her that she was dependent
and not independent.

The remembrance of those early days had
taught her in some measure to comprehend her
brother's character, her brother who was her
half-brother, a tie which can be made so close,
or so far apart !

This remembrance gave her a conviction
lying well hid up in her secret heart, that but
for some great reason the ostensible kindness
would not be there; and half frightened, indeed
more than half-frightened, at the temerity of
her thoughts she rose suddenly from her seat,
and was recalled to her present position by the
letter wliicli fluttered to the ground.

This letter requested her in terms, which
amounted to a command, to give up her house
and come and live with him — not to let the
house, but to sell it ; indeed, he informed her
that, having no doubt as to her being glad to
cras he wished, he had already taken steps
to erect this.

Poor Mrs. Dorriman ! She was so little
certain of being happy under her brother's
roof, that it was very terrible to her to put
herself in a position from which she could not
retreat at will. She was a woman who had
never in all her life had a confidante or a
friend from whom she could take counsel,
being one of those rare characters who literally
cannot speak to any one of the things nearest
her. In her childhood and her youth she had
been isolated and had had no companions, and
between her and her husband there had never
been full confidence ; thoughts so entirely kept
to oneself are apt to become bitter and onesided
; nothing is perhaps more unwholesome

than allowing no light from the outside world
to brighten those darker thoughts which come
at times to every one, and which a frank and
open discussion with a friend will often chase
away ; but if this is perilous in ordinary cases
it is far worse when a thought lies in the heart
with so terrible a portent that it acts as a drop
of deadly poison, and that only the knowledge
of its power keeps it from being brought out
and looked at in all its bearings.

The sea-breeze ruffled Mrs. Dorriman's hair.
She was not much over thirty, and after her
mourning was over, had worn no cap. She had
much that was comely in her countenance and
person, but her large and rather light grey
eyes had a habit of looking down as though
something might be read in them she wished
to conceal, and her face had lost its bloom.
She moved well, but with the slow step of one
who has never known robust health, and to
whom repose is more acceptable than activity.

Long she sat there thinking, one idea running

through all her thoughts — What was the use
of any reflection ? Her brother, Mr. Sandford,
twenty years her senior, had always been the
master of her fate, and always would be. She
was to all intents and purposes powerless, unless
She clasped her hands together,

and the colour rose for a moment in her pale
cheeks. Slowly a resolution formed itself in
her mind. With a step in which no hurry
appeared, but with her mind strung up, she
went up the path to her house. It seemed very
fair to her now she was to leave it — as things
become more desirable to us all as they recede
from our grasp — and she stopped for a moment
to look at it. The grey roughhewn stones
were partly concealed by various creepers ;
roses and honeysuckle overhung the porch, and
the garden with its well-kept lawn still showed
a perfect feast of colour to the eye. Mrs. Dor-roman
sighed, and, going into the house, she
wrote a note, and rang for her servant. She
was still a little flushed, but she sent her note.

and taking up her work she sat down and went
on with it mechanically. No one seeing her
could have imagined that she had for the first
time in all her life begun to set in motion an
act of rebellion.

She kept looking along the road which
showed itself between the self-sown birches
that clothed the valley. The answer to her
note came in the shape of a dilapidated pony-chaise
with a pony in it, whose multifarious
occupations left it saddened and subdued in
appearance requiring much persuasion to make
it go with any approach to speed. It crept
down the hills and it crawled up them, and its
winter coat was already thick enough to render
it absolutely impervious to a whip, which
had grown shorter and lost its lash in service
against it. That pony might with much truth
have said to any one trying to urge it on, ^^ It
amuses you and does not hurt me." Mrs.
Dorriman on those rare occasions when she had
occasion to 0^0 to the nearest town, nine miles

off, had borrowed this little turn-out from the
farmer who kept it for his invalid mother, and
she knew the pony well ; when she saw it coming
she folded up her letter and went up stairs,
putting on her things as though she was going
to church, and standing at the door ready to
get in when it drew up there. The rosy-cheeked
boy who drove, was gifted by nature
with no desire for conversation, and Mrs. Dor.
roman took a book to beguile the tediousness
of the way, which she read, as we do at times,
without taking in the sense of it, her mind full
of the approaching change, and the plan she
had suddenly made, and which was at variance
with all the previous habits of her life.

That love of beautiful scenery which few
people are really born without, made her from
time to time raise her head and look around
her. High overhead towered the hills on either
side, with their huge rents and rifts clothed
with mosses, and here and there a patch of
grass upon which the hardy little mountain

sheep clustered. Lower down, the natural
birch-woods were a mass of gold, their colour
enhanced by the swaying movement of their
graceful boughs, which caught the sunlight
and kept it dancing there. One chain of lochs
after another swept down the strath with wooded
promontories and islands, and the hills rose
*speak above peak," carrying the thoughts
upwards to that heaven they seemed to reach.
There was movement in the air, but the wind,
though coming up the strath from the sea, was
soft and mild. From a few cottages, that
looked miserable enough and yet were warm
within, came that smell of peat which to those
whose foot has trod the heather all their lives
is full of pleasant associations — of fine days,
when a bowl of milk and a hunch of oaten
bread was enjoyed after the keen air ; of wet
days, when, wandering far on pony-back and
overtaken by the rain, a peat-fire had brought
warmth, and comfort, and that real hospitality,
which somehow never fails amongst the poor.

Mrs. Dorriman in her whole life had been
indebted to the poor for all the love and real
kindness she had ever known — many a kind
woman pitying the motherless child, had cheered
her, many a man remembering the sweet sad
face of the mother who had lived her short
life amongst them, a life short but full of
sweetest remembrances to all whom it had
touched, had shown their gratitude to the
mother in kindness to the child. Nothing had
been so painful to her as leaving her old home,
not because of any kindness in the home where
she had been taught many bitter lessons, but
because of the warm close friends who filled
her life, and who were to be found in almost
every cottage on the hill-side.

Had she been going there, happiness would
have predominated over pain, but Mr. Sandford
(who made a merit of having no foolish
preferences) had sold the old home long ago,
and had built a house according to his own taste
within two miles of a thriving manufacturing

town, and poor Mrs. Dorriman lead often
enough heard of its smoke, of the trees killed
by vapours from some sulphur-works, and of
the blighted flowers ; and, like all people vv^ho
live alone and in their own thoughts, exaggerated
the miserable prospect before her.
She was entirely dependent on her brother,
and had no option, but, though she was too
timid to make a stand against him, she had
enough of the woman in her to think it no
harm to circumvent him to a certain extent,
especially as he need never know it unless . . .
and then she broke oft thinking, and resolutely
buried herself once more in her book,
taking in as little of it as before.

She was roused by the sight of the row of
small houses which was the beginning of the
town, and by the voice of the boy, who broke
the two hours' silence and inquired in a stolid
voice, '^ Where wull I put ye toon ? "

^^ At the drapers Willie; and I will call at
the inn when I am ready to go home."

She went into the draper's shop and took
thought for a moment — even on such an occasion
the habit of her mind was against buying
any unnecessary thing — and she gazed a little
helplessly at the array of cloth and homespun
upon one side of the shop, and at the groceries
and barrels of flour and herrings upon the
other ; the prevailing odour being tarred rope,
herrings, and candles of the primitive sort
made in the district — dips with much cotton
and very little tallow.

The attentive showman leaned over the
counter (she dealt there) — he was half afraid
she had come to make some complaint — and
he inquired in those dulcet tones in which a
distinct fear might have been read, what she
required.

Mrs. Dorriman gazed at him a little helplessly
and made no answer for a moment or so,
and then, in a lower voice than was usual with
her, she asked the way to the bank.

Good Mr. Forbes immediately reflected she

might have had some bad news, and he moved
a chair for her sympathetically, but she would
not sit down. Throwing himself over the
counter he went to the door and explained
that the bank was higher up the street and on
the right-hand side — indeed, as the town contained
very little except the one very long
straggling street, it would have been very
difficult to have missed it.

Mrs. Dorriman bowed her thanks, looked
out to see that the pony-carriage and boy were
well out of sight, having a vague feeling that,
if the boy knew she had gone to the bank, all
her most private intentions might immediately
become known to her brother. Murmuring
something indistinct about coming back, she
walked up the street, the paving of which was
not carried out as a whole, but boasted only
of flags before the uttermost houses, and the
spaces between were of earth and often muddy.

The unwonted appearance of a lady walking
along called every one to their door — the two

butchers' slioj^s, not rivals but friends, who
killed one sheep on alternate days not to
"interfere" with each other — the baker's shop
with its complement of barefooted children
around it — the post-office with an imposing
board and the most excellent sweeties in one
window (which accounted for an occasional
sickness as regarded letters), were all passed,
and not giving herself time to think, Mrs.
Dorriman hurried on, entered the bank, and
asked for Mr. Macfarlane.

Mr. Macfarlane, who had been occasionally
at Inchbrae to see her on business, was a little
startled by the advent of a woman who had
never before been to the bank, and he naturally
imagined that some bad news had brought her
there.

I hope," he began, as he came into the
small room which was sacred to interviews
and away from the hearing of the two young
clerks, who wrote diligently at times and made
up for their industry at others, by biting the

tops of their pens and scanning the county
newspaper, every line of which, in default
of other literature, they knew by heart — '^ I
hope "

^^ It is no bad news," said Mrs Dorriman,
her nervousness betraying itself in her voice ;
'but there is no one here I can go to about
anything — and I want to ask your advice
about something."

Mr. Macfarlane knew the world, and he
knew also a good deal more about Mrs. Dorian'
s position than she did herself. But he
was a man who made it a rule never to interfere
in any one's business, having enough of
his own on his hands. Any one looking at
him and having a knowledge of countenances
would have seen at once that caution predominated
over all other impulses. His expression
was an absolute blank just now, and
Mrs. Dorriman, who had instinctively turned
to him in appeal, shrank a little, and he
saw it.

VOL. I. C

I am not a man fond of interfering," he
said, gravely; ^^but I hope I can see when I
can do a kindness, and do it — always supposing
that in doing it I do no one any wrong."

*'I want your advice," Mrs. Dorriman said,
nervously. In asking advice was she doing
her brother any wrong ?

'^ And upon what subject ? " Mr. Macfarlane
took out his watch, counted the seconds with
his thumb and returned it to his pocket.
Urged by this evidence of time being precious,
poor Mrs. Dorriman, without any of those
explanations which she had turned over in her
mind as necessary to lead up to the subject,
rushed into it at once. ^^ My brother, Mr.
Sandford, wishes me to live with him "

'' To live with him ? " Mr. Macfarlane was
a little surprised, but he knew also that this
could not be all. ^' I suppose he is anxious to
have more of a home than a bachelor has as a
rule'' he said, after a pause.

^^ He wishes me to give up Inchbrae."

'^ Give it up ! You do not mean to sell it
out and out ? "

^^ Yes, he desires me to sell it," and Mrs.
Dorriman's voice showed plainly what selling
it meant to her, and what a pang it would give
her.

Mr. Macfarlane was a little puzzled now.
Though he knew a good deal of her history,
he was not at all sm^e what the relations
between brother and sister were, thai is to says,
he knew a great deal, but not everything, and
he was afraid of making a false move from
ignorance, and putting this poor lady into a
worse position than she at present was in.

He looked at her expectantly, and then he
said kindly, '' Then you intend going to him
you intend leaving Inchbrae ? "

^^ I must," she said, nervously.

'' And my advice is not needed then, since
you have made up your mind."

There was a visible struggle going on in
her. '^ I am afraid I must go, since he wishes

cit,

but — need I sell the place, Mr. Macfar-
lane?"

^' The place is yours — I would not sell it
if I were you."

^' But he commands me," she said, bitterly,
sand. "

sand you do not know what the consequences
may be if you refuse to do so ? "

^^I — I know nothing," she said, helplessly.

Mr. Macfarlane was sorry for her, he understood
quite well what was weighing on her —
she was afraid of disobeying — she thought
herself too much in Mr. Sandford's hands — too
much in his power. Before he had time to
speak she said, hurriedly, ^' Perhaps it had
better not be discussed, perhaps I had better
do it."

But here, the thought of having no home
to come to if she was unhappy — the pang of
parting with the little place she so loved,
where her husband had died, and each shrub
and tree of which she had seen planted, was
too much for her — and her quivering lips and

tearful eyes awoke real sympathy in Mr, Mac-farlane's
heart.

'^ What is in your mind, Mrs. Dorriman ? "
he said, kindly, and putting aside his official
air he leaned forward and spoke to her, inviting
her to speak her confidence.

Mrs. Dorriman turned red and pale, sne was
troubled, and her nervousness increased.

^' I cannot bear parting with the place forever,"
she exclaimed, but in a low voice, '' if

In vain poor Mr. Macfarlane waited,

words would not come for some time, then ina
hurried way she said, " Could I sell on the
understanding that I might buy it back when
I chose ? *'

^' Yes, it might be done if the money was
in your own hands. Was it bought in your
name or in that of Mr. Sandford ? "

"Ah!" she exclaimed, "then it is hopeless
I " Her countenance fell, and Mr. Mac-farlane
was more sorry for her than ever.

He was himself a little puzzled and anxious.

He did not know how far she could keep
things to herself, and he had to think before
he could offer any suggestion ; it would never
do to be involved in an angry discussion and
correspondence with Mr. Sandford. Then a
certain sense of shame came to him. He
hated getting into any trouble ; he hated interfering,
but he was an upright man. What he
knew justified him in guiding her, and he could
not be so mean as to let her risk losing everything
when a word might help her. He was
cautious, but without entering into details he
might advise her. He knew that giving up
her house at Mr. Sandford's bidding was probably
because Mr. Sandford had good reasons
for wishing her to be under his own eye, and
he had enough knowledge of circumstances to
make him confident that she would lose
nothing by being bolder, and asserting herself
a little.

^' Mrs. Dorriman/' he said, impressively, '' I
do not think that you will find it answer,

either to sell the place or to make private
conditions about a sale unknown to your
brother. My advice to you is simply this :
refuse to sell, and let the place — so pretty and
pleasant a place will easily let — and point out
to y our brother that after your experience of
investments you think it better not to sell, but
to keep the rent in your own hands, which will
make you independent of his assistance during
your stay with him ; a lady wants clothes
and . a little money for herself."

Mrs. Dorriman coloured vividly. Now exactly
he understood — the remembrance of long
ago, when as a girl she had been forced to goto
him for every little want, and often and
often had gone without things rather than face
the taunts and grudging words he showered
upon her, came to her now. How well ! oh !
how well, Mr. Macfarlane understood !

Then that hidden thought came up as it
often did when memory went back to those
old days, and a flash almost of terror as though

she' had let her secret escape her shone in her
eyes and startled Mr. Macfarlane^ who was
watching her keenly.

*' You are sure that in this instance disobeying
my brother will not will not do

harm ? " she said in a faltering voice.

^* I am certain of it," he said firmly, ^^ and it
is best to act quite straights inwardly — I mean''
he said, hurriedly correcting himself when he
saw her wince, ^' you would find yourself in
quite a false position if you had nominally
agreed to do what your brother wished and
yet reserved a power which virtually neutralised
the sale."

She bowed her head, ^' You are right, Mr.
Macfarlane, and yet . . . . "

'^ It is natural you should shrink from doing
anything to displease him," he said, trying
to follow her thoughts and fancying he had
done so.

^^ It is not quite that — it is not oily that,"
she murmured in a low voice.

She had 2)ur230sely left the letter at home ;
she wanted him to help her, and yet she did
not wish to show him all, or to tell him the
rough terms her brother had used. Like many
another person she quite forgot that a half-confidence
is worse than none.

Mr. Macfarlane was more puzzled now than
ever. What was really at the bottom of all
this ; what did she fear ?

The pale slight woman before him, who had
never known peace till now, had evidently
some complex mode of reasoning entirely beyond
his powers of divination.

Poor woman ! she saw her tranquil life slipping
past her beyond recall, and the problem
present to her now was, how she could let Mr.
Macfarlane know, she was not quite at her
brother's mercy, that she held something in
reserve, without allowing him to guess what
that something was ?

The impossibility of doing this was by turns
before her with its desirability, then she joined

her secret thought to his outspoken words, and
said in a firm voice, '' I will refuse to sell."
Mr. Macfarlane was immensely surprised, but,
imagining that she was simply following the
advice he had given her, he was also flattered.
Asking advice generally meant making up
your mind beforehand and going to hear the
reason for and against having done so, when it
was too late to alter anything.

'' I am sure you are right," he said, warming
towards her, '' and anything I can do "

^' You can receive the rent and forward it
to me," she said, '' when the place is let. I
must have time," she said, with a little tremble
in her voice, ^^ to arrange and put away my
things." Mr. Macfarlane was amused by her
simple belief in the production of a desirable
tenant at a moment's notice.

He laughed a little. '^ It will take a little
time, Mrs. Dorriman, to get just the person
you want ; some weeks at any rate. A step

like tills cannot be taken in a hurry — you
yourself will require time."

^^ Yes, if I can get it," she rejoined, speak-her
thought aloud.

^' Come and have some luncheon with my
wife," he said kindly; *she will make you
welcome, I know."

Mrs. Dorriman accepted the proffered kindness,
and followed him into the comfortable
room where Mrs. Macfarlane was found with
five children ; who were introduced and dismissed
in a breath.

Mrs. Macfarlane was one of those pleasant
cheerful kindly women who see the sunny side
of life most. She had been a petted daughter,
was an idolized wife, and an adored mother.
Her husband carried all his perplexities and all
his troubles to her, and by so doing lightened
them. She had a keen, shrewd way of looking
at things, and was so wrapt up in her husband
and children that she had no time for outside
friendships. Her chief fault (as imperfection

in some shape is but human) was her intolerance
of imaginary woes, and want of reality
in any and every shape.

She thought life was made so unnecessarily
hard, not by real circumstances, but by the
way those circumstances were dealt with.

She saw no hardship, where health and
strength existed, in self-denial for those who
were loved. She was completely out of sympathy
with people who suffered acutely from
what they falsely considered a loss of dignity.
She had seven children, a very moderate
income;, and two servants. If those servants
were busy or out, or hard at work, she opened
her own front door and saw no harm in it ;
just as on Sunday she took the milk in when
her servants were in church. To say that she
had arrived at doing this without some trouble
would be untrue, because all her neighbours
thought her dreadfully wanting in that high
standard of gentility that was their own.

But no woman is consistent without having

a certain power and influence amongst her
fellows. She had splendid health, and her
powers of repartee were so well known that
no one cared to lay themselves open to an
answer — her absence of ill-health giving her a
command of temper that always placed her in
an advantageous position.

She was extremely sorry for Mrs. Dorriman :
to be alone as she was, to have to face the
world without any backbone (which was her
way of putting it) was to her, like expecting a
fish to swim deprived of its fins.

Nothing more gracious, more kindly, can be
conceived than her manner to the poor lady
who so required it, and one slight effect of her
influence was amusing enough. Instead of
leaving the bank and going to fetch the pony-carriage,
Mrs. Dorriman boldly sent for it to
come and take her up there.

CHAPTER II.

Mrs. Dorriman drove home, well wrapped-up,
and in a glow of feeling which would have
been difficult to analyse. To one who is, as a
rule, in an undecided state of mind, the very
fact of having come to a decision is a comfortable
feeling : besides this, there had been
friendliness and kindness just at the moment
the poor woman had been sorely needing
both— and, though directly opposed to poetical
ideas, it may here be surely confessed that
excellent food — daintily set before her, and
proffered with that true hospitality which

nowhere is more real than in Scotland, and
was conspicuous in Mrs. Macfarlane — had its
share.

Then the support a cheerful, honest, and
direct person (above all petty prejudices, and
seeing facts disentangled from all complications)
is capable of giving, had a most
beneficial influence. Mrs. Dorriman's character
had suffered in a long and weary
contest against petty tyranny — just as a
tender sapling may live and grow exposed
to adverse and cruel winds, but it will be
bent, and twisted, and gnarled, and finally
grow stunted and fixed in one direction — an
existing proof of the severity to which it was
exposed when too young to stand against it.

A child, motherless, and with an invalid
father, she had been unwelcome ; the half-brother,
who was so many years her senior,
had asserted his authority harshly over andover
again. She had been taught something,
in odd ways, as representations from outsiders

had been made, and she had learned some
lessons not intended to be taught her. By-nature
anything but strong, she was timid
and nervous, shrinking from every" one, expecting
roughness, repressed and taking refuge
by her father's paralysed form as the one
place where she could hear no reproaches.
She dared make no friends, and she did not
distinguish between those she might have
made, and those she had better not make.
No servant stayed long enough to befriend
the child, and her earliest recollection was the
departure of her nurse, who having, ujDon one
occasion, got certain dainties for her, and
being met by John Sandford, had been
dismissed on the spot, as a thief. Mrs.
Dorriman could yet remember how she had
shivered in the cold nursery that night, and
how helplessly she had tried to undress
herself ; and how, when all was quiet, a
kind-hearted rough dairymaid had brought
her a bowl of milk and a hunch of bread — and

how wretched it had all been since then,
when it was no one's business to look after
her, and how she had been indebted to one
or another servant (as they had tried) to do
anything for her. Then a rough school,
where no one seemed to care about her and
where she was in perpetual disgrace for not
knowing lessons she could not even read ;
the discovery of her appalling ignorance and
the mortification of having as a child of nine to
stand by little ones of five and learn as they
did ; the scanty provision sent for her clothes,
whose very patches she vividly remembered — a
harder nature would have soured for life. Mrs.
Dorriman grew up with all the spirit crushed
out of her, but she was not hardened. She
had no holidays ; she was left year after year
there till she was seventeen. Then a gleam
of joy broke into fier life, for she was suddenly
summoned home — by her father's wish — and
she had arrived to find that he had made a
rally, and that John Sandford was not there.

VOL. I. D

Her father could barely speak, even inarticulately.
She yet could recall his wondering
touch upon her shabby gown, and how,
almost as in a fairy-tale, she had suddenly
found herself in possession of much she had
never dreamed of having.

His one happiness seemed to be to see her,
and to have her near him. A few months
passed like this— very few. She had arrived
poorly clad, and suffering from the acute cold
and bitter wind, in late autumn; when the
snowdrops were still blooming, and the earliest
trees were yet in bud, he died suddenly;
giving her just before his death a little case in
which she saw a lovelier fairer likeness of 
mother.

She had loved him with all the love that
had never before had an outlet. The days
that followed were like a painful dream.
What she had, what her position was — of all
this she knew absolutely nothing. The one
thing she clung to was the old grey house,

with the great beech and plane trees, and
silver firs, up which the squirrels (imps of
mischief though they are) ran so gracefully.
The sea — the friend of all, giving society and
music to the desolate, and rejoicing the hearts
of those who are lighthearted enough to enjoy
its sparkling moods — that sea was now her
friend. To wander in the wood and look
down upon it ; to let its salt spray touch her
face as it broke upon the rocks. — She loved it
in every mood, and found there something of
the comfort which the absence of any intimate
religion deprived her of, the bald learning of a
few verses, the chapters read in the morning
in a dull tone by a shivering teacher in the
fireless schoolroom ; where, from motives of
economy, the fire (generally kindled with
damp sticks, and which hardly ever did anything
but smoke) was never even allowed to
have a match put to it till the girls were all
assembled there.

d2

This had been her religious instruction ; and,
as the church was very far from them, they
seldom went, and, when they did go, the walk
was too long for her, and most painful from
the chilblains, which caused her much suffering
; so that cold and pain were the chief
impressions in connection with a sense of
fatigue which left her half-awake in church,
and employing all her energy in trying to
conceal the fact of her drowsiness.

Then one day, while looking out on the
sea, some few months after her father's death,
her hat off, and a vague sense of wishing she
had something to look forward to, pressing
upon her, Mr. Dorriman had come, and her
brother.

Instead of the usual sneering tone in which
John Sandford addressed his sister, she was
startled out of herself by hearing him speak
with civility. The surprise gave her a brilliant
glow, which touched her face with colour and
lightened it up. Mr. Dorriman thought her

lovely. Her gentle helplessness was another
great attraction, an attraction which every
da3^'s acquaintance increased. Without fully
understanding how it all came about she found
herself Mrs. Dorriman, and content to be so
and to get away from the roughness and unkindness
which was all that she ever knew of
the brotherly tie. At first she had not been
unhappy. Mr. Dorriman was so fond of her
and so carefully surrounded her with comforts
and kindness that she was more than content,
though she was not in the least in love with
him. But soon shadows came. A man of some
property, he was unfortunately surrounded
by men of wealth. He argued that where
those round him made gigantic fortunes he
could do the same — putting upon one side the
important fact that they had been trained to
business and he had not. He plunged into
every opening where he thought he saw a
chance of success ; losses only made him more
certain of success in a new direction. He was

upright, honourable, and kind-hearted to a
fault. He knew really nothing of business, and
imagined that in a few days he could master
details other men had spent their whole lives
in studying — and in this idea John Sandford
confirmed him. After seven years of anxieties,
and hopes, and fears, he found himself ruined in
health from over-worry, broken in fortune, and
not able to shield his wife from the consequences.
That she had never loved him he
knew and had long known. But he had
learned from her something of her life and of
the absence of happiness which had made her
what she was. He also had many a score
against John Sandford could he but live to pay
them. There was much in the transactions
between them he could not understand, and
which, looking back upon now by the light of his
failures, quite apart from his own speculations,
he was certain, he had reason to know, had not
been fair or right. But this conviction came
to him too late ; before he had done more than

collect notes and tabulate letters he was struck
down by fever, which his constitution could
not stand, and Mrs. Dorriman found herself at
twenty-five a widow, at the mercy of the world
and her brother.

This little place of Inchbrae had been
bought by her husband for her when he found
how much the sea entered into her thoughts
and how she loved it, and he went there to
die, leaving her, he thought, a home, and a
home she liked.

Mrs. Dorriman, however, after thinking that
all was not lost, so she had it, only learned
afterwards that she was there as a tenant at
will ; the place was hers, but all else had
passed into her brother's hands in virtue of
some claim he had on her husband's property,
and she had not a penny !

The last blow completed that helpless feeling
of indignation she had against her husband's
incapacity for business. The test of a
woman's love, as we have said, is adversity.

and 230or Mrs. Dorriman had never any love to
begin with. She possessed her soul in patience
before the world, but only before the world; in
secret it was one long incessant protest against
her fate. She felt in her heart of hearts,
though even to herself she did not so plainly
speak, that she had not received her share of
the bargain. She had married to get out of
her brother's power, and she had been a dutiful
if not an affectionate wife, and now she was
more in her brother's hands than ever ! More
because she was a proud woman, and her
brother made her plainly understand that
much that was painful as regarded her husband's
transactions might be brought forward
by him if he chose to do so.

It was just at that time, just when a helpless
sense of loss every where filled her and made
her very wretched, and that she was gathering
everything together to go away, that Mrs.
Dorriman came upon a whole box of papers.

some letters all marked and arranged in order,
receipts, and other things.

Poor Mr. Dorriman's great idea of business
was keeping and docketing every line he ever
received, and copies of much that he wrote.

His widow looked at these documents with
something of the pang with which we see the
relics of a hand no longer there. Indeed, since
her husband's death, the faint affection she had
had for him had undergone a change. She
was indignant when she thought of his business
incapacity, but she missed his kindness and
she regretted him more each day, as each day
taught her how much he had cared for her.

Should she burn these papers, or not ?
Timid as she was constitutionally — she looked
round her, and at that moment she saw her
brother coming up to the house. Afraid he
might sneer at her sentimentality, or say
something to vex her about her looking at
them, she hastily pushed the box under the
sofa, and sat down, not wishing to conceal

anything, but merely from that one idea, that,
if he saw her with the old letters before her,
he might wound her in some way.

Her brother's visit taught her for the very
first time that in that box might lie documents
of importance to her husband and to her.

After sitting down for a moment or two, he
rose and moved about restlessly, and then he
said —

I have to find some papers ; where did your
husband keep his papers ? " Without expecting
an answer, he said, '' Oh, I know, in his
writing-table drawers." And, without waiting
for her to speak, he went into her husband's
room, and she heard him lock the door.

Mrs. Dorriman rose, and, filling the skirt
of her dress with some of the papers, she
made silent and successive journeys to her
own bedroom, where she concealed all, hastily
throwing some skeins of worsted into the
empty box, and once again sat down. She
knew nothing —-but there must be some reason

for her brother's anxiety, and she had suffered
so much at his hands that her whole instinct
was alive in self-defence.

But a timid woman does not act in this way
for the first time in her life without betraying
something of the agitation into which it had
thrown her.

When Mr. Sandford, with angry and baffled
eyes, came back to her, he saw something
in her face which roused his suspicions. To
have put the suspicion into words would have
perhaps roused hers, but from that moment
the poor woman's dream of a peaceful life at
Inchbrae with no one to dread, was a dream
that had no foundation. He went away a
day or two afterwards, and she lulled herself
into a belief of contentment. So soon as Mr,
Sandford's plans were made, though it took
weeks and months to arrange them, he
summoned her to his house. Certain in his
own mind that she had concealed those papers,
he determined to have such a hold over her as

would give him the power of getting them
into his own hands, if they were there.

In the meantime the fruits of her visits to
the Macfarlanes appeared in the letter which
she sent to Mr. Sandford next day.
*dear Brother," she wrote,

^^ I am quite willing to go and keep house
for you for a time, but I will let my house
and prefer not selling it ; I like the place and
do not wish to part with it.

^' When I have made my arrangements I
and my maid will go to you. I will write
again when I know the day and hour on
which I can leave.

^^ Your affectionate

^^ Sister Susan."

She felt happier when she had thus boldly
asserted her freedom of choice.

Two days came and went, two lovely
autumnal days, during which poor Mrs. Dorian,
instead of preparing to depart, wandered
over the little place, every nook and corner

of which was sweet to her at all times, and
was doubly dear to her now she was going
away. Late in the afternoon of the third day
she was walking down the burn-side, stopping
ever and again to look with renewed admiration
at the scenery round her, and watching
the purple bloom upon the distant hills as
the evening shadows came down, a purple
tinge which was reflected in the sea except
where a blaze of gold in the sky shone with
more broken lights below ; the sun was low
behind the hills, and heavy clouds speaking
of rain to come, were lowering in fine contrast
with the vivid light lying between them
and the hills. The sea-birds were agitated
and astir; from the open sea upon her left
came that hoarse strange murmur hurrying up
like a relentless fate across the bosom of the sea.
The light faded, grew less and less as the clouds
descended, the wind increased in violence, and
everything spoke of a coming storm.

Mrs. Dorriman saw the rain-clouds burst

and stream down in the distance ; she could
not move, that curious foreshadowing of
coming evil which we call presentiment made
her cling to the spot. She heard herself
called, she would not turn, she knew if she
turned she would all the sooner hear what she
did not want to hear. Then her faithful maid,
the creature who cared more for her than
any one, came up to her and touched her.

'^ The boy is waiting'' she said, breathless
with the speed she had used. '^ Here is a
telegram, and oh, my dear, there's nine whole
shillings to pay. It's no mistake - it's marked
on it. I hope it may be worth all that good
money."

Mrs. Dorriman clutched the telegram in her
hand, and went swiftly up the path and to her
own room.

Before she got in the rain had come to
them, and it came down with a violence
which the wind seemed to increase as it
dashed it against the windows. As her foot

was on the stair Mrs. Dorriman's kindly
nature made her say,

'^ Be good to the boy, Jean ; he cannot face
the storm for a bit."

Jean, who was one of those dear old women
whose delight is in ministering to some one's
wants, and who was never happier than when
having the opportunity of doing so, went into
the kitchen happy, and was soon busy heating
*'a fine sup of broth for him," and other things
as well — when she heard a cry.

Setting the broth before him, and carefully
shutting all the doors, that he, an outsider,
should hear nothing, Jean hurried upstairs.
Mrs. Dorriman was sitting on the sofa, and
looking white and miserable. The open
telegram lay on the ground. She had flung
it away as we fling away something that hurts
us, and when Jean came in she laid hold of her
arm, and pointed to it.

Jean lifted it up, and read as follows : —

'' 1 have sold the place, and you are to be

here at six o'clock next Saturday — without
fail The new proprietor will be there that
day. No maid or other servant can come
here."

Jean read and re-read— she did not take it
all in at first. Then an indignation and a
whole storm of righteous wrath rose within
her.

She put her arms round poor Mrs. Dorriman,
and they mingled their tears together.
* # *

A few words went back in answer to Mr.
Sandford's telegram : —

^' I will come, as I must come, on Saturday."


This message did not go for many hours.
The boy was in no great hurry to leave the
comfortable quarters he was in, and got back
too late for the message to leave that night.

Mr. Sandford, aware that his sister would
not have asserted herself in so unwonted a
manner had she not gained spirit and strength

from some source unknown to him, had passed
a sleepless and agitated night, after receiving
her letter.

In his dealings with Mr. Dorriman there
were so many things that might appear against
him. He was too cautious and too clever a
man to put upon paper himself, a word that
might at any time rise up against him. But
he knew Mr. Dorriman's ways ; he knew that
the one business-like habit he had was the
tidy and careful way he had of docketing and
filing all his papers. How often had the poor
man not pointed to those carefully-folded and
initialed slips, as a proof of how entirely
nature had intended him for a thorough man
of business ?

Though Mr. Sandford, with a flow of language,
and great powers of speech, could always
confute him in an argument, how often he
himself had felt uncomfortable when some
paper he had entirely forgotten re-appeared ina
moment, with its initial letter and note,

VOL. I. E

showing to what it referred, written in a fine
clear style outside.

One book, and only one of any importance,
had he found in the writing-table drawers.
This book was a carefully drawn up list of the
papers Mr. Dorriman considered valuable or
of any importance. It was written in that
curiously neat and precise hand to be found
generally in those who have nothing to do,
and do that methodically.

All Mr. Dorriman's conception of business
lay in this orderly manner of keeping papers ;
his losses and his gains were to him all vagueness.
He hoped to get something by taking
shares in one or another company, and he
believed implicitly in whatever it was at the
moment ; was not only enthusiastic, but tired
out his friends by the manner in which at
inappropriate moments he introduced the
hobby of the hour, which was to make his own
fortune so completely that his good heart

wanted all his friends to become rich in a like
manner.

The immediate cause of his failure had
been a carpet manufactory. Needless to say,
he did not know one carpet from another, but
it was sufficient for him that other people did.
Wool was all round him on the hills, and the
same primitive dyes of our forefathers still
existed on every muir.

The Cluny Macpherson plaid is the first and
most primitive of all tartans, having only the
natural colours of the wool — the bloom and
the root of the heather in its manufacture.

Mr. Dorriman was fired with the ambition of
producing carpets on the same principle,
where only black and white, pm-ple and yellow,
were to be combined.

His first expense was, of course, machinery ;
his second storehouses; his third was in experimenting
how to extract the pimple from the
hills in a satisfactory manner, and at small
expense. Then it occurred to him that grow

2

ing the wool himself would be such a splendid
idea ! and quantities of sheep were bought —
without much reference to their keep — and his
first experience in connection with them was,
that not having sufficient turnips of their own
they not unnaturally laid siege to those of
their neighbours, and so effectually, that heavy
damages had to be met. Then he had not
taken into consideration that there was no
railway near him— and he had to procure carts
to carry fuel to feed his engines.

Here he is spoken of in the singular number,
but five people joined him in this enterprise.
There were some carpets made upon the
principle of primitive colours of no particular
pattern ; they were made of the best wool,
and would probably wear for a long time,
but their ugliness was their most salient
feature ; they cost an enormous sum of
money to produce, and the result of a
struggling existence for three years was to
carpet his own house, much against his wife's

inclinations, to provide certain carpets for the
other members, to sell a few at a loss, and to
collapse. Mr. Dorriman was not one of those
men who, because they are extremely
sanguine at one moment, are proportionately
depressed at another. He bore disappointment
with unflinching good humour,
and was so immediately interested in a new
scheme that the sense of failure never rested
long upon him. In this instance, however,
whether from failing health or from some
cause not evident, he was seriously affected.
Though he did not know it — he was the only
one of the six investors who had any real
property, and the consequence was that the
whole loss fell upon his unfortunate shoulders.

To Inchbrae, his wife's little property, his
thoughts turned. There he went and there he
died ; and it was only then, as before said,
that a glimmer of reproach at her want of
understanding touched his wife, and she had
kissed him tenderly.

The record in his book that troubled Mr.
Sandford's peace was not any written record,
it was what was left blank. After detailing
various papers there came this : —

Letters from John Sandford.

1. About the broken fences at Ardenthird.

2. ,, sale of larch-poles.

3. ,, advice on the subject of wool.

4. Papers and memorandums of his conversation

about my wife's money.

5. Memorandums, written verbatim on same

subject.

6. Certified copies, verbatim, on same

subject.

7. Certified copies, verbatim, on same

subject.

8. Transcribed conversation word for word.

9. Have not succeeded in seeing my father-in-law's

will.

10. Copy of paper . old Mr. Sandford.

What did all these last memorandums refer

to ? He had not seen the will. What paper
had he a copy of, and why had he had that
paper copied, and who had copied it for him ?
This book which John Sandford carried away
with him gave him the most endless and
intense anxiety. His own conscience spoke
of a thousand things, a thousand transactions
between them, that must not see the light.
The very vagueness of it all was an additional
trouble to him.

Through the day this annoyance pressed
upon him, but through the night these shadows
became real fears. He tormented himself in
vain. Sixth and seventh all blank. Those
unwritten words might be of terrible moment
to him, for, as all men have their ambition in
one or another corner, John Sandford had his
to be looked up to and to be respected. He
was wealthy, but he remembered enough of
the old days to know that mere wealth would
bring but outward respect, and that character
was the real power there, in that land where

he craved for power. For power was what he
really loved ; he loved to feel that his will was
law, and till his poor half-sister married he had
made her feel this, as he tried to make everyone
else feel it. When he received her answer
he was absolutely frantic ; the least opposition
to his will made him all the more resolute to
enforce it, and he knew immediately that in
some way unknown to him she had gathered
strength. There was an assertion of herself in
her answer both new and unexpected. All the
more was he determined she should come
under his roof. There was another reason,
though he thought of it as a reason only when
the desirability of her being under his own
immediate supervision became so evident to
him.

Mr. Sandford had married when in India,
though, as his wife died within the year, and
no one had ever seen her in Scotland, the fact
was often entirely forgotten.

How his marriage would have turned out

eventually is more than any one can say, but
it had been the one softening influence in his
life, and the one real grief had been his wife's
loss. She had a twin sister who died before
her, leaving two little girls, and the one
request she had time to make was that he
would always befriend these children for her
sake ; she made him promise this. Under
the softening influences of the moment he
had written to their relations telling them of
his promise, and assuring them of his intention
to keep his word if called upon to do so.

Having done this, and having received
letters expressive of their gratitude, he forgot
them as completely as though no such children
existed.

Four years before the time when Mrs.
Dorriman sat in tears at Inchbrae, in the arms
of her faithful Jean, Mr. Sandford received a
letter the purport of which was, that the little
girls were now orphans, their circumstances
not so good as might be, and in consequence

of his promise (vide copy of letter inclosed)
the old lady who had cared for them wrote to
him for assistance and advice.

And he gave both, and assisted them at
school, and now when these girls were
respectively 18 and 16 he was once more
asked in what way he intended to befriend
them, and if they might still look to him for
counsel and assistance ?

CHAPTER III.

Mr. Sandford, having arranged through his
banker about the small payments annually
required for the two child-en, Grace and
Margaret Rivers, had never given them much
thought since. Their own money had made
his payments of small account, though something
had been necessary, and the payment of
that something was as necessary to his sense of
what his promise to his wife meant, as to the
comfort and well-being of the children themselves.
Having fulfilled what he conceived
his duty his mind was at ease j he had kept

his promise and it had not inconvenienced
him. He was essentially a man who thought
that all obligations could be wiped off by
money, in some shape or other. When he
went to church, which he did only because it
was the right thing to do, he gave largely,
comprising the whole extent of the charity
which was expected of him in that one gift.
He gave always the same sum, and felt then
that he had done his duty, but he could never
understand why people talked sometimes of
the '^ blessedness of giving '' and of ^' a glow
of satisfaction." He felt no glow, and, not
being by nature a generous man, he thought
giving a disagreeable thing ; it would have
been more disagreeable if he had had less to
give ; even as it was, he grudged it, and considered
it as a very tiresome part of his
position.

When he got the letter asking his future
wishes about the girls he was very much
annoyed. He was not well, having caught

cold, and, as he was a man who never showed
the slightest consideration for his servants, he
had no old servants. There was no one in his
house who took any interest in him ; he was
their paymaster and taskmaster, nothing more.
His cold became feverish and he was really ill,
so ill that he, for the first time, felt his loneliness.
When he rang, his bell was promptly
answered, and the trifle he wanted, more
because he wanted an excuse to have some one
near him, even for a moment, than from any
real want, given to him ; he lay in lonely
state, and felt his loneliness terribly. The
undefined dread about his half-sister, the
shadowy fears of what those blanks in the list
might mean, came and tormented him. There
is an old and pathetic saying that deeds of
kindness are the brightest lamps round a
man's death-bed, but he had no such lamps ;
he had lived for himself ; he could remember
nothing, no words of gratitude, for he had
earned none : worse than that, he had not

always been just in his dealings. Then this
letter came and here was a new complication.


He was worse than ever next day ; all
through the night his fears had been exaggerated
and had kept him awake, and in the
morning the doctor was sent for — for the first
time he wanted one. When he came he was
struck by the desolate and uncomfortable look
of the rich man's surroundings ; his servants
were too much afraid of him to spend one
unnecessary moment in his company; the
contrast between services paid for, and services
given from love and affection, were startling to
a man who saw the poor in their hours of
sickness, and who saw the tenderness of heart
and the care amongst them, however roughly
it might be shown. He knew little of the man
before him, except that he had been a hard
man to his brother-in-law and to the half-sister
whom he had seen in former days, by the
father's side, so often ; but he was full of compassion

for him and for his want of womanly
care and kindness.

^' You should have womankind, in someway,
about you," he said. ^^You are not so
ill ; you will pull through this all right ; but
you may be ill again, and you need care
and kindness. What a pity you have no
family ! Many a man would marry if he
could look forward and see himself left to the
mercy of servants and strangers when he
is ill."

^'I lost my wife," said John Sandford,
abruptly.

I'm sorry," said Doctor Bane. ^' I forgot
that ; I now remember hearing of it. Well,
it cannot be helped, but it makes a great
difference having young ones about one;
young people make one young again."

He stayed some time from pure kindness,
and Mr. Sandford was anything but grateful
to him ; he wanted to think out by himself the
thought his words had given him. However,

he asked him to come next day ; his visit was
something to look forward to.

When he left Mr. Sandford lay quietly
thinking.

^* Young people make one young again''
Perhaps this was true ; he was not old ; he
was strong and had never been ill. He was a
hale strong man under sixty, and yet the
doctor spoke as though now he must expect
illness, then after illness came the end, yes,
the end !

The evening shadows crept slowly over
everything ; all the hours since the doctor had
left him John Sandford lay quiet, thinking,
thinking of all that had come and gone, all
that might come and go.

At length he slept, and in his sleep, caused
by the soothing draught given to him, he
dreamed strange things ; some one, his sister,
seemed pursuing him with something that
always threatened to overwhelm him, and two
girls kept warding it off. He saw their outstretched

hands, and he had a sort of consciousness
that with them there, she could not hurt
him. The dream was so vivid that when he
woke he looked round him expecting still to
see the pursuing figure. He gave a deep sigh,
the reality had been to terrible so him.

The morning light was struggling against
the night shadows ; it was still very early, so
early that no one was astir, save a sleepy girl
whose duty it was to light the kitchen-fire, and
who was so startled by the sound of his bell
that she let her sticks burn out without any
coal while she went and stared at the bell-clapper
as though there she could discover the
reason for its early motion. As she looked it rang
again, the master must be ill — what ought she todo?
Rouse the cook and risk a furious scolding
from her, or go and see what he wanted ?
While she was hesitating it rang a third time,
and in her confusion she did both, she rushed
into the cook's room and told her the bell was
ringing like mad, and that Mr. Sandford was

VOL. I. F

ill, and she fled upstairs in breathless haste,
and knocked and went in, expecting to see her
master on the floor in a fit, when she was quite
prepared to throw her apron over her head and
scream to the best of her ability.

*^ What do you mean by keeping me waiting
and not answering my bell?" he asked in a
tone of fury.

She was so surprised to find him able to
speak at all that she held her tongue, and this
was the best thing she could do.

^^ I want writing materials and a cup of
tea," he said. " Where is Robert ? "

'^ I believe he's in bed, sir, and Mrs.
Chalmers, she is not up. I'll make some tea''

^^ And what the do I keep servants for,

if they are all to lie in bed in the morning ? "

The girl, frightened by his manner, left his
door wide open, and he had the satisfaction of
hearing her call out to the head of the establishment:
''Oh, Mrs. Chalmers, maister
Sandford he's just very ill, and he is just lying

there and cursing and swearing like anything."


Mrs. Chalmers, fat, forty, but not fair, panted
upstairs, raging at Robert for not being ^^ at
hand."

Mr. Sandford repeated his wishes, and he
added, '^ It's high time you had a mistress to
look after you all, and you'll have one too."

Down went Mrs. Chalmers, who was ^^that
upset " she first sat down and had a cry, then
she scolded the girl violently, making those
general and vague accusations which are so
much harder to bear than any that are definite ;
scolded Robert and the housemaid, who was
used to it, and had too thick a skin to mind ;
and, the tea being made, she poured out the
first cup for Mr. Sandford, which was less good
than the second, which she took for herself ;
then she felt better and retired to her room,
till the house was ^^ right," and to reflect in
silence upon the threat held over her of a
mistress to keep all in order.

f2

It will be seen that all these things together
combined to bring about two results — the
peremptory command to Mrs. Dorriman, and
an invitation to Grace and Margaret Rivers
to consider Renton House as their home, at
any rate for the present.

If there was a wide difference between the
way this invitation was given, there was a
still wider difference in the way it was
received. We have seen how poor Mrs.
Dorriman felt it to be the loss of her
independence and the uprooting of her quiet
and peaceful life.

But the Rivers girls had that boundless
spring of hope that is the delightful portion
of youth and health combined; and in the
invitation conveyed to them through the
banker they only saw fresh kindness.

They had been all these years at a very
second-rate English school ; they had no visitors,
nothing, not even holidays, to break the

monotony of school life, and the prospect of
going anywhere was exciting.

They had the misfortune there of being justa
little above their companions in position, their
father being a man of good family and their
mother well connected ; they had also a
little independence of their own, a hundred
and twenty pounds a year, and they were the
wards of Mr. Sandford, whose wealth was
immensely exaggerated, as fortune often is
when at all undefined.

The two sisters who kept the school were
kindly-intentioned, weak, and very ignorant
women, whose educational deficiencies did not
they thought signify, because they supervised
only, and taught nothing themselves— the fact
being that they were not capable of distinguishing
real teaching from something of a
very superficial kind.

The girls went there at six and eight years
old ; they were nice-looking girls, with no real
beauty, but good-looking enough for partial

friends to admire, and enemies to dispraise
their personal appearance. The old ladies
were fond of them, flattered and spoiled
them, and their companions followed suit.
Never did two girls go out into the wide
world less fitted to take up a position in it
properly. Grace had a rooted conviction that
in some way she was a little better than everyone
else, and must always lead everywhere ;
and Margaret, herself very gentle, timid, and
of a clinging nature, saw everything from
Grace's standpoint, measured everything by
Grace's standard, conceived her to be the
most beautiful, cleverest, and most wonderful
creature ever made, and thought it quite
natural that she should expect always to be
first everywhere. Everything she did she
conceived to be almost inspired, she admired
her, looked up to her, and had not a thought
or feeling of her own, apart from her.

The girls left school escorted as far as
Edinburgh by a teacher going there. They

were very much surprised no one met them
there, but they went on to Glasgow, confident
that here some one would come for them.

Never, as far as they could remember, had
they left school since first going there, and
even Grace, who was independent and capable,
she thought, of going anywhere by herself,
was depressed when they arrived in Glasgow.

It was a drizzling, dark autumnal day, the
heavy pall of smoke that makes that prosperous
place look so dismal and dingy to
all outsiders, lay over everything. They
could not see a hundred yards on either side
of them, and when they got out of the carriage
they were bewildered and dejected.

Every one seemed too busy to attend to
them, and Grace thought it most extraordinary,
and Margaret still more extraordinary,
that no one paid her any attention.
Surely they could all see who she was ?

It was with difficulty that they got some
information, and found that they had to goto

a different station, and in baste, too, if
they wished to catch the only train that went
to Kenton that night.

Tired and disappointed, they got a cab, and
no more forlorn girls crossed the busy town
than those two that daj-.

At the other station, by some mishap, but
one clerk was left to attend to the demands of
first, second, and third class passengers, and
there was a crowd on either side. Grace
nearly gave it up in despair, and had only past
time to run for her train, leaving her dignity
for the moment to take care of itself.

When they got to Renton they looked about
no one was there. Their spirits again sank
considerably, and it was with ruffled temper,
coming of wounded self consequence, that
Grace got into a cab with her sister, and
crawled on up the hill to Renton House.

What she had expected, or what her dreams
had been, is a matter of no moment, for they
vanished there and then. A short tree-less

drive up to a square house of no great size,
with a good honest cabbage-garden beside and
behind it, — a field, in which fluttered some
household washing, and the town, smoky and
full of factories below it, this was the palace of
her dreams, the Eenton House to which she
had already invited (luckily in a very vague
manner) her favourite schoolfellows.

Robert, who wore no particular clothes,
answered the door, and showed them into a
large primly-furnished room, and went off to
announce their arrival to Mr. Sandford.

He came in and received them kindly
enough, told them to wash their hands quickly
as dinner was ready. But his pompous
manner chilled them. Something in it seemed
to say so plainly to them — " You have no real
claim upon me, but I am giving you my
countenance all the same."

In their room alone, the sisters looked at
each other for a moment in silence ; then their
hearts sank, and forgetting time, and all but

their disappointment, they cried in each others
arms long and bitterly.

It was characteristic of Grace, that, in all her
trouble and depression, she still thought of
changing her dress. Dinner was ready, and
they were twice sent for, but though Margaret
was ready she would not go down by herself ;
and her sister, who wished to make an impression,
was particular to the last item ; the
correct tying of a bow, and the placing of it
exactly where it should produce the desired
effect.

They went downstairs, and found the 
empty ; lower still to the diningroom,
where Mr. Sandford had an unpromising
scowl upon his brow.

'^ Less might have served you*' he said,
glancing at the girls, ^^ when I was waiting."

I am very sorry," began Margaret, but
she was stopped by Grace —

^^ You might have put dinner off'' she said.

coolly, '^ as our train gets here so late — it was
quite impossible to be ready sooner."

Mr. Sands ord stared at her attentively for a
moment ; a grim smile crossed his face ; but he
looked from her to her sister, and his countenance
softened. Margaret was very like his
wife — not so good-looking he thought, but like
and he was glad, and he took a fancy to her
from that time.

There was plenty of everything, though all
was plain. Mr. Sandford said little ; Grace
was the chief speaker, and what she said did
not please him. She found fault with the
trains, the smoke, the bustle, the inconvenience
at the railway-station. He heard her in
silence for some time, and then, looking up, he
said, sarcastically —

'^ If I had thought of it, I might have
ordered a special train for you''

Grace was slow to see a joke against herself,
but she had an uncomfortable feeling (very

dimly felt) that such a thing might be possible
in him.

Dinner went on. Mr. Sandford, from beneath
his shaggy brows, watched the girl
before him. He was immensely amused by
her airs and graces ; and, as observation is
frequently mistaken for admiration by wiser
people than Grace Rivers, she rose from table
quite satisfied with a success which she
intended should lead to many important
results.

She talked a good deal about this to Margaret
that night when they went to their
room, and about all the reforms she intended
to make in the household. Margaret listened,
with all the deference she was accustomed to
pay to Grace's remarks, and no misgiving
crossed the mind of either sister as to the
complete power to be in Grace's hands.

'^ I shall have a great deal to do," she said,
in a tone of much importance, as they finally
composed themselves to rest.

As it was her last thought at night, so it washer
first idea next morning.

The room they were in was a large square
room, and off it was a room that corresponded
with the drawing-room below, having equally
with it the only bow window in the house, and
commanding a country view over some green
fields.

It was full of lumber — of old maps, schoolbooks,
&c., — and, as is often the case where
no womanly eye is there to interfere, various
accumulations it was nobody's business to look
after, had gathered there.

Broken china and broken chairs, some old
prints, with their glasses broken also. Whatever
happened was there concealed from Mr
Sandford's view.

'^ We will clear this out," said Grace, ^^put
it to rights, and make this our sitting-room."

But she found her determination confronted
at the very outset by Mr. Sandford's opposition.

'ris the drawing-room not big enough for

you ? What do you want a sitting room for ?
You should be glad enough to have a good
warm room ; let it be, I am not going to have
the house upset by you or any one else''

But we want a place where we can work
and not mind making a litter," urged Grace,
*' and we can do it ourselves."

^' Leave it alone," he said, gruffly, and he
walked out of the room.

Grace made a gesture of despair.

^' Here will be a more difficult task than I
thought," she said, pathetically, to her sister.
^^Isit not hard that I should have so much
trouble at the very beginning ? "

^' It is hard, darling," said Margaret, gently,
'' but you will get all you want soon ; you
know every one does what you like at last ; you
must just make him do it after a bit, when you
know him better."

Grace's next effort was in the direction of
the cook; she was determined to bring about a
great improvement in her performances. Had

she not attended a whole series of cookery
classes, and learned how to ice cakes, and
many other useful things ? With great dignity
she rang the drawing-room bell, and when
Robert appeared she said, *^ Send the cook to
me.'^

Robert grinned from ear to ear, and came
back again in a very few minutes.

^' Cook's busy and cannot come." He stood
and looked at her.

Grace made no answer.

'^ I am to take any message," he said, longing
to raise some little disturbance.

** If she does not choose to come for orders
I shall give none," she said after a moment
with a visible accession to her dignity, and
Robert reluctantly departed.

The sisters began unpacking their things,
and Grace's spirits rose when they had made
their room more like the only home they had
ever known.

That evening, when dinner was over, Grace

began upon the subject of her duties to Mr.
Sandford.

'^ I do not want to lead a useless life," she
began, having well thought over her speech
beforehand, but finding it terribly difficult to
say it to him now, while his grey eyes, keen,
hard, and cold, looked at her unflinchingly,
*^ I want to be useful."

^' Indeed ? "

*' Yes," she said, gaining more courage, ^^ 1
intend taking a great deal of trouble and
getting things right, and being really useful,
I do not intend to eat the bread of idleness."

'' Are you thinking of being a governess ? "

A cold-water douche would hardly have been
a greater shock to her.

I meant I wanted to be useful here."

'^ Oh ! You wanted to be useful. In what
way ? "

Poor Grace !

*^ I thought you would like me to order
dinner, and — look after things."

'' Have you had any experience ? I thought
you had always been at school. Did you order
the dinners there ? "

There was something almost insolent in his
tone, and Grace through all the thick skin of
her self-love, which generally prevented her
seeing or feeling any intended slight, winced.

She rallied her courage, however, and said,
^^As we are with you and it is usual for a
lady to be the mistress of the house, I thought

John Sandford threw himself back in his
chair and laughed out loud. He was immensely
tickled by this girl's assumption.
His sense of humour — rarely touched — was
reached by it ; the situation seemed to him to
have all the elements of the ridiculous in it,
and his laugh was an unaccustomed and noisy
laugh — under no control. An angry flush rose
on Grace's face, Margaret saw it, and, as usual,
threw herself into the breach —

^' Grace only meant to do what she thought

VOL. I. G

was her duty," she said bravely, ^'and it is
unkind of you to treat her so — and, my dear
Grace don't mind," and she rose and threw
her arms round her.

^^You are right, my girl," said Mr. Sandford,
looking at her with increased respect.
^^It's a pity your sister does not take a leaf
out of your book. ' Those who don't walk on
tiptoes need never come down on their heels,'
a homely saying but a true one;" then turning
to Grace, against whom he felt no softening
influence, he said drily, '^I am obliged to you
for offering to make yourself the mistress of
my house, and of not wishing to eat the bread
of idleness, and all the rest of it. It all sounds
very fine, but if I wanted a mistress — which I
do not, being provided with one already — I
should not choose an inexperienced girl under
twenty, for the post. However, I have to tell
you it is not necessary. My sister, Mrs.
Dorriman, comes tomorrow, to be the mistress
of this house ; without her or some one

like her, I could not have asked you here;
and when she comes, it is my wish that
you look up to her and obey her in all
things."

Here was a thunder-clap. The girls looked
at each other in dismay. His sister ! she
would then he a feminine edition of himself !
AW the poor children's dreams of having
their time to themselves, and of being to
all intents and purposes free, fell to the
ground ; the shock made Grace silent and
Margaret's eyes filled with tears.

I hope you quite understand," Mr. Sandford
said roughly, pleased by the effect he
had produced, ^^ I have not reached my time
of life to be worried and troubled by female
rows and disturbances — and, if you cannot
make up your mind to swallow your pride
and knock under, you will have to find out
some other way of eating bread, whether of
idleness or the reverse."

With the scowl that clouded his face 


ever he was angry he looked at Grace,
resolutely keeping his face away from Margaret,
whose glance had a strange influence
over him, and, pushing back his chair, he rose
and walked out of the room.

Grace rose also. She was pale and defiant,
not in the mood to tolerate even Margaret's
caresses, she went to their own room ; and,
chilly though it was, she threw open the
window, feeling as though she was suffocating.
For the first time in all her life she had been
spoken to rudely and insolently, and made to
feel her dependence. Fate was indeed cruel :
why was she left to the mercy of the world
and Mr. Sandford ? She would not stay with
him — to be bullied and hectored and ordered
about by him and his sister. She would go —
but where ?

The spasm of pain, of rage, and of indignation,
surged through her — for the first time in
all her life her vanity and her self-love had
been sorely wounded. She was suffering

acutely, and just at that moment when she
was railing against her fate and every one
connected with it a letter from her old schoolmistress
was put into her hands. She read it
and shrank as she did so, the fond words in
which so much affectionate flattery was mixed,
struck her almost as though written in mockery,
she was not to allow her present life of
splendour to make her idle : she had such
great gifts, she was to use them ; she was
not to allow vanity about her personal appearance
to disfigure her mind ; though queenlike
in appearance she was to walk humbly,
&c. &c.

She sat do^vn, staring at her surroundings.
What splendour was there in the four-post bed
with its moreen curtains and the hideous
carpet which was the exact opposite of all
she had been taught to like ? She did not
pursue the thought, and it never dawned upon
her that her great gifts and her queen-like
grace were equally untrue. She accepted

everything, and no one can blame her for so
doing, but no greater cruelty could have been
done her than the false standard and over-estimation
of herself given her, so completely enshrouding
her, that one day the awakening
would be terrible to her.

Her sister's innocent pleasure over the letter
and the hearty way in which she endorsed the
flattery, made her once more a comfort to her,
and once again she turned towards her and
spoke.

^' What are we to do about this woman, this
sister, this Mrs. Dorriman, Made ? "

Margaret laughed softly.

^'You will get the better of them all intime,"
she said ; 'you make every one do as
you like ; every one admires you so much; you
are so clever, darling, and so beautiful. I am
quite sure you will marry a duke."

Grace smiled ; she was beginning to forget
the wound she had received, and her sister's

consolations were very sweet to her. She
went to bathe her face and said, laughingly,

^' Unfortunately no dukes are in sight here ;
and Margaret," she said suddenly, with a little
shudder, ^' I feel as if in this dreary place no
one will ever come."

'^ That is nonsense, darling," Margaret said
quietly; ^^ the prince always comes just when
great distress is there, just when the princess
needs him."

A turn in the cabbage-garden, revealed a
few coloured leaves and some late flowers
mixed with the ^^ useful " vegetables ; these
were better than nothing, and the girls gathered
them and then went through the town, attracting,
of course, a good deal of attention in that
out-of-the-way place, where few gentry ever
came.

Grace went home not altogether unhappy.
One or two clerks and several of the shop
people had followed her and her sister with

admiring glances, and, in the absence of all
else, this was acceptable.

She returned to the house in good-humour,
and walked more daintily than ever, meeting
Mr. Sandford at the front door. He had come
home earlier than usual to receive his sister.
He was satisfied to see she was not sulky ; if
she had been he had made up his mind to put
it down, and her too, at once.

Grace was, however, soon in her own room,
getting ready for the encounter she dreaded.
From the first Mrs. Dorriman should be taught
the place she was to have ; outwardly she
might be mistress, order dinner, and keep the
servants in their places, but, as regarded
interference with her and Margaret, it was not
to be, and she was thirsting to make this
evident to her and settle it all at once.

As usual she was rehearsing the words and
the manner in which she should speak when
Mr. Sandford called her. He had his own
notion of what was respectful to his sister, and

before lie had time to make a stand or say a
word she had intended to say he was hurrying
her downstairs with no very gentle grip upon
her arm, having made up his mind that, as the
proper thing to do was to go down-stairs to
the front door to receive Mrs. Dorriman, there
she should go.

The carriage was not in sight even, but he
had seen the train come in ; and as Grace,
standing beside him at the open hall-door, felt
the cold wind blowing in upon her, she added
this to the other wrongs, and almost hated
him.

CHAPTER IV.

The last afternoon of her stay at Inchbrae
had come. Mrs. Dorriman, under the impression
she was working very hard, carried several
things upstairs that ought to have remained
down, and wandered about helplessly, a terrible
sense of having an enormous deal to do and
to arrange pressing upon her; mixed with
that ever constant and depressing feeling
which distinguished her, of )iot being up to
the mark. Can anything be more dreadful
than a consciousness that strength is not there
whatever '^ the day " may be ? and is it not

I

as much a sin to crush and murder a spirit as
to destroy a body ? and her spirit had been
crushed. She sat down upstairs in the favourite
corner from where she could see the river
rushing into the sea ; she took her Bible from
a hope of finding comfort — but her spirits were
so fluttered that she read the words without
taking in their sense.

The river suggested to her, as it does to all —
the resistlessness of fate — she was inexpressibly
affected by this new and terrible disappointment.
After having known so little happiness
she had got into so quiet a haven ; and once
more, after feeling safe and happy, she was
dragged out into the rough waves of life to
commence a battle again. It crossed her mind
that there might be some appeal — some one
might help her to avert this ; she was a widow
and no longer a girl ; how was it that she was
so much in her brother's hands ? Could Mr.
Macfarlane not unravel it. She had a secret
dread giving up her husband's papers — perhaps

something might be found in them that might
harm his memory, and since his death she
thought so much more tenderly of him, and
remembered him with so much more affection
than she had done during his life, in spite of
her contempt for his abilities.

But still she blamed him for not having kept
her safe out of this position of dependence
which had been her great hope when she had
married him. She forgave him now his want
of success, but that— it was so hard and it was
so unfair to her.

She was deep in these thoughts when she
was roused by the crunching of the gravel
under her window, and she went down to the
room looking so bare and desolate, stripped of
its flowers, its quaint bits of china, of everything
that made it homelike— to receive Mr.
and Mrs. Macfarlane. Mrs. Macfarlane was a
cheerful and a pleasant woman, but was much
too warm-hearted to be overpoweringly and
oppressively cheerful when it would have been

hard for another to respond. She had the
tact of a kind-hearted woman, which is a much
more reliable thing than the tact acquired from
the constant friction of society.

In a few moments they were all three having
tea, the fire was making up for other deficiencies,
and, though Jean made an apology about
the best cups, no one had thought of anything
as missing. Mrs. Dorriman had been very
greatly troubled about the papers ; she herself
had never dared to go into them thoroughly as
we know — she was afraid of seeing something
in those records that might distress her, about
her husband. But for this dread, she felt
sometimes curious to know how these papers
affected her brother, and she did not know
what to do about them. She did not dare take
them with her because she knew that if she
did her brother would soon make himself
master of them ; she could not lock them upas
the place was sold, and when she thought
of that she always had a lump in her throat.

All the time she was drinking her tea she
was wondering what to do, and longing to
consult Mr. Macfarlane about it, kept back by
her overpowering timidity.

He himself came to the rescue : he asked 
she wished to leave anything behind, and
said he and his wife would be glad to take
charge of anything for her.

He was quite astonished at her gratitude,
which seemed so far beyond the slight service
he offered her. She thanked him with tears
in her eyes — there was some china and '

Mrs. Macfarlane's shrewd eyes saw that in
some way this offer meant more than appeared,
and she rose with Mrs. Dorriman to go and see
how much room the things would take, and
how best to take them over.

Mrs. Dorriman stood before the boxes holding
the household treasures, her colour coming
and going, and her evident hesitation and
uncertainty quite pitiable to see. Her friend
looked at her in amazement— she saw tears

standing in her eyes, and she laid her hand
softly upon hers, and said, ^^It is all very
painful for you, you will feel better when it is
over''

^ ^^It is all pain — it is not that "and

poor Mrs. Dorriman's tears overflowed. Then,
as the sound of Mr. Macfarlane's carriage
announcing her impending departure struck
her ear, she stooped suddenly and drew out
a box which she was unable to lift, and she
said in an agitated whisper, "I do not know
what they are, or what secrets they hold, I am
afraid of looking — my brother wants those
papers — Mrs. Macfarlane they were my husband's,
they are mine. You will never give
them up ? "

'^ I will never give them up, save at your
own expressed wish."

It is safer for my brother not to know that
you have them. He is not sure they exist, but
he is very anxious — so anxious to find them
that I know they are of consequence to him''

'^ But, dear Mrs. Dorriman, why not look
through them ? An evil guessed at, is worse
than one confronted."

'' You do not know — I am afraid. No ! I
cannot look at them — a day may come — Mrs.
Macfarlane, if you knew all. In looking I may
do my husband injury. 1 cannot do it — I have
not courage."

'' You may on the contrary find out much
that puzzled people at the time of his death.
No one understands how he managed to lose
all his money ; " and then being a discreet
woman she stopped short — she must not say a
word to set Mrs. Dorriman against her brother.
'' Do you think it might do good ? " the
poor woman said, with a flash in her eyes — a
ray of hope — that gleamed there for a moment
and faded again. ^* No ! " she repeated, '' I
cannot do it now. I cannot risk it."

Mrs. Macfarlane felt she had no right to
urge her to pursue any course of action, when
she was ignorant of the real history of her

past, and could not foresee the consequences ;
but she went to summon her husband.

Mr. Macfarlane was not quite so willing as
his wife to throw himself into the situation.
Her warm heart often led her to take responsibilities
his caution would rather have done
without.

^^ As usual, his reluctance did away with any
doubts still lingering in Mrs. Dorriman's mind ;
the moment a thing is difficult or unattainable
it becomes desirable.

He accepted the trust, however, and then
suddenly said, ^^Are your marriage settlements
in your brother's hands ? "

*' My marriage settlements ? I never had
any that I know of," she answered, helplessly.

'^ Never had any marriage settlements?"
He could hardly believe her.

''No, at least I never knew of any. I suppose
I should know all about anything affecting
me in that way."

*'I suppose so." He mused for a moment.
The same thought that had occurred to his
wife came to him in a still stronger shape.

VOL. I. H

He must say nothing that would raise her
suspicions about her brother, or that in anyway
would make her going to his house more
painful than it evidently was.

*^ I strongly advise you Mrs. Dorriman, to
read through those papers. They may throw
a great deal of light upon your position. You
may be in a better, a far better position, than
you think."

^' I cannot," she said, in a low voice. ^^I am
afraid. I may some day bring myself to do
so, but I cannot do it now. Will you keep
them for me ? Oh, do ! and never let any one,
never let my brother know you have them.
Some day if I am in great difficulty, and cannot
see my way, I will ask you to read them."

She stopped for a moment, and then, turning
towards them with a passion they had hardly
credited her with, she said, with tears rolling
over her face, ^' You do not know, how can
you ! But I was so hard. I could not forgive
my husband for his want of success. He loved
me dearly, and I — I had no love to give him.

Then when he died I forgave him, and he
knew it ; but I never thought of this, that I
was to be dependent again and lose my home
and all. . I am beginning to think hardly
of him again. I am afraid of seeing something
in those papers. . . . something that may
make me hate. . . ."

She paused, broken down by the overpowering
emotion that had taken possession of her,
and Mr. Macfarlane was moved, and went over
to her and took her hand. ^^ Forgive me," he
said, ^^I vdll urge you no more; but before
taking this with me," he added, laying his
hand upon the box, ^^ we will seal it up together."
He got some packing-paper and some
rope, and he made her seal it up with her own
seal. She obeyed him quietly; her sudden
and unwonted burst of emotion having left her
calmer, quieter, and paler than usual.

When she had parted from these real friends
she felt as though she was losing all she cared
for ; in her repressed life so little affection had
h2

ever come to her, save and except that her
husband had given her.

The papers were safe and out of her hands.
This was a fact she dwelt on with great satisfaction
when the last sound of the carriage
broke through the quiet. Mrs. Dorriman went
out. She was going up the hills to say farewell
to the old people to whom her going was
a real grief, and before going went to give
Jean orders to prepare something against her
return, and something for the following day.

Jean was looking full of importance, and
her mistress, well accustomed to her ways,
knew that she had something to tell, had something
to reveal, and that she intended to
be questioned. ^ ^ What are you going to do,
my poor Jean, when we part tomorrow ? You
have not yet told me."

^' We are not going to part here'' said Jean,
a look of triumph on her face.

*^No," said Mrs. Dorriman, who felt this
coming parting sorely. ^^I supposed you

would go to the station and see me off. I am
glad of that."

further than that'' said Jean, emphatically.

Mrs. Dorriman looked up at her. What did
she mean ?

^^ I am going all the way to Ronton itself,"
said Jean, in a tone of determination.

'^ But my dear Jean — my brother. . . ."

^^Your brother's not mine, and I have
nothing to do with him, nor he with me. I'm
going to the town of Ronton, and I've got
a situation there ; do you suppose I would let
you go where I could never see you — or you
me ? No ! no ! I settled it first in my own
mind and then I arranged it with other people,
and the same train that takes you takes me,
and my kist's just away with your things, in
the same cart."

Mrs. Dorriman could not speak, but the
forlorn woman kissed the ruddy face before
her — half her trouble seemed lightened— and
Jean, touched and awkward under so strange
a demonstration, patted her back with a hard

and hearty hand and disappeared from her
mistress's eyes.

Mrs. Dorriman walked up the river-side with
a happier heart than she had had lately. With
one friend near her in the shape of Jean she
felt as though nothing mattered quite so much ;
she needed some comfort. With all the enthusiastic
love for the beauty of the home she
was leaving for ever, she was also leaving the
little self-made duties that had become pleasant
to her. She had to face the sorrow of those
who had become her friends ; she could promise
them nothing from a distance — she had
nothing of her own ; she did not suppose her
brother would continue to give her an income ;
she must guard against making promises she
could not fulfil.

The same words met her all round, '' What
a pity you're going ! It's we that will miss
you, my dear. Oh, what is it for ? Is it for
company's sake ? "

They could not get over it, her hands were
shaken till they tingled again. When she was

going home one of the eldest of the old women
stood out from her doorway like an old prophetess.
Her grey hair was smoothed back
under her mutchj her black eyes sparkled, and
her wrinkled face showed up white in the
gloaming.

She was the daughter of a man famous in
his day, a man who had had the gift of second
sight, and though she had not inherited his
gift she was looked up to, she had so many of
her father's sayings at her lingers' ends, and
she had much of his manner.

'^ Come here," she said, ^^ and set ye down."
Mrs. Dorriman could not do this, but she asked
her to go towards home with her. It was getting
late, and the light was fading fast. Christie
was attached to Mrs. Dorriman especially because
she and her forbears had lived near the
old home on old Mr. Sandford's property, and
she had a great deal to say about the way the
sale of the place had been predicted and foreseen
long years before by her father.

This evening, not unnaturally, she was full

of it all. ^'I mind weel," she began in the
solemn tone appropriate to the subject, '^ hearing
my father tell what he saw, and he knew
he had seen what meant evil to the place and
to the Laird, and he grieved about it, indeed
he did."

^^Was that when he saw a light?" asked
Mrs. Dorriman.

'^ It was a light and it was not a light, my
dear, it was something of fire."

^^ lyell me about it again, Christie. I get
confused about it sometimes."

^^ You see, my dear, the common folks, some
of them have ghosts and see spirits, and so on,
but the gentry, the real old gentry, they have
a different kind of ghost, there are things that
happen — you'll understand."

At all events, Mrs. Dorriman understood
what Christie meant to express, and even at
that moment and time of unhappiness the
idea presented to her of the superior ghosts
bestowed upon the gentry made her smile.

'^ Well, Christie, it may be so," she said,
'^ but the idea is new to me''

^^ It is not new to us, and it was not new to
my father. I do not mean that spirits are
different, though we all know that spirits take
different shapes ; but when the head of a house
goes, or any misfortune comes nigh him, there
will be strange things seen. My father saw
these things — it has not been given to me to
see them — perhaps so is best. My father had
many dark hours, those that have these gifts
must go through great anguish. I have seen
him sitting up at night and looking wild —
wild. I have heard him say strange things.
It was awful "

sand about this fire?" asked Mrs. Dorian,
a little anxious to get home now the
darkness was making the footpath difficult to
see.

^' Ah," said Christie, '^ many and many a
time I have heard that story. He was in his
house, the house high up the hill under the
wood, and was restless ; the hour was coming

upon him, and he could not breathe. He
threw open the door and stepped out in the
darkness. You'll mind the steep hill that
went up to the house, and how the old house
itself stood up away from everything? "

Mrs. Dorriman made a gesture of assent.
The recollection of her old home, and the way
in which it had been sold to the first bidder,
was inexpressibly bitter to her. She was depressed
and sad, and felt as though she had
small need of other and painful memories, on
this, her last evening here.

^^ From the east and the west, from the
north and the south, gathered darkness — so
black was the night that not a thing was to be
seen — the hill where your father's house stood
was but a shadow, and the lights in the windows
shone out with a wonderful power.

'^ The heavens were in gloom from a gathering
storm, and the wind was howling up and
down, and up and down — none but my father,
who understood things, would have stood as he
stood and faced it. Then the clouds opened,

and a great ball of fire came down ; it broke
over the house, my dear, over the house, and
divided itself into three pieces— only three ;
and a piece went on the east corner, and one
flame touched the south and one the north,
and only the one corner, the one from the
west, was left untouched, and that meant a
great deal, and then the fire met and fell on
the house itself." Christie's voice was so impressive,
her manner so solemn, that Mrs.
Dorriman, though the story was one she had
often heard before, felt as though she was
hearing it for the first time.

^^ What did it mean?" she asked breathlessly.


^' It meant, my dear, what happened. Your
father lost the lady (she came from the south),
and that was one misfortune, and a very great
one ; then he lost his suit— the law-suit about
some land in the North. Then he died himself,
poor man, and that was the third thing —
and the house was sold."

'^ So the misfortunes were complete ? " and

Mrs. Dorriman pressed forward a little and
shivered. It was impossible not to be uncomfortably
impressed by Christie— her tall figure
and commanding gestures looming large beside
her in the ever-increasing darkness.

'^ Not complete, my dear — not ended. No,
that was what my father always said, he talked
often and often about it, that is why it is
written upon my brain. All he said came true,
and why should this not come true ? He saw
it all to the end and he read it, and he was
meant to read it." She dropped her voice in
saying this, and once more was silent.

The two came to the little gate and bridge
that spanned the burn and led to Mrs. Dorian's
place. She turned and took Christie's
hand: ^'I feel it is the end," she said, speaking
with that sob in the voice which is more
pathetic than weeping; ^'you know this place
is gone from me, and that I shall never, never
see it again ! "

'^ Yes, you will," said Christie, firmly; ^^my
father said what I will tell you now — though

I was not to speak of it to all. That night I
told you of — when the fire-ball divided and
fell — there was one corner of the house untouched
; and when the fire and its great redness
died away, he saw a silvery light rise, and it
came from that corner and spread and spread
like a flood of moonlight over everything, and
the light was just above where you lay, my
dear, a baby not many weeks old, and I shall
live to see you do as you please, and live here
or there, or in the old house, at your pleasure."

She raised Mrs. Dorriman's hands to her lips,
kissed them fervently, and, uttering an impassioned
prayer in Gaelic, she left her and
moved up the hill. Mrs. Dorriman went home ;
she blamed herself for taking comfort from
words which were the wild visions of a superstitious
woman, but she did take comfort. By
nature easily impressed, easily held up and as
easily lowered by passing influences — the conversation
with Christie had filled her with a
sort of courage.

To live as she pleased and where she pleased,

to go back to the old home, every corner of j
which was so dear to her! Such a dream
filled her with unreasonable happiness; she
threw out her hands as though she was throw j
ing off a burden, and she said softly, though ;
aloud: ^' I will believe it! 1 do believe it! it I
will help me ! "

Jean announced the dinner, and was pleased
to see her mistress looking brighter and happier
than she had looked since she knew that
she had to leave Inchbrae. Her satisfaction
was extreme, for the thought, not very unnaturally,
came to her, that the fact of her
going with her mistress was sufficient to account .;
for it, and she scrupulously performed the j
small services required of her with an increased |
attention. She always felt as though she had J
charge of her mistress — now she felt as though j
in some way that charge was increased. ;

The morning was unpromising. The wind
was high, and the rain, only for that reason,
was not a downpour, but blew in fitful gusts

•i

against 'sall corners of the house at once,"
Jean declared. She was meditating the possibility
of putting off the journey, and spoke to
Mrs. Dorriman about it.

Mrs. Dorriman was standing irresolutely atone
of the windows when a dogcart appeared
in the short avenue, and in another moment
two men dismounted, rang the bell, and walked
into the little hall.

Jean with all the air of outraged dignity
appeared upon the scene, and was greeted by
these words,

^' We have come to take possession for the
new proprietor ; send some one to take the
horse round and get some breakfast ready
immediately."

Jean would not trust herself to speak; she
went past them straight up to Mrs. Dorriman's
room. She found her mistress pale but composed,
dressed for her journey with her bonnet
on. She began to speak but was hushed by
an uplifted hand.

"Come, Jean, we will go'' she said.

The noise of the two descending the wooden
staircase brought the men into the hall, and
Mrs. Dorriman's pale composure awed them
a little.

Before they had time to speak she spoke to
them.

'' Sir," she said, turning to the elder of the
two men, "you are here by my brother's
orders, not mine. I am leaving just now,
but I protest against the sale of this place,
which is mine, and I intend one day returning
to it."

With a slight bend of her head she went
out into the rain, and before the two men
could recover themselves she was seated in a
waggonette which had been ready for sometime,
and, accompanied by Jean, was soon
whirling along the road; her heart so lot
with indignation that the pain and sorrow of
going away was merged in that feeling.

At the station were the Macfarlanes with
many a thoughtful gift for poor Mrs. Dorian,
and it was not till the train steamed

out of the station, not till the last wave of
the friendly hands grew dim in the distance,
that the poor woman's fortitude gave way,
and that, seated alone with no prying eye upon
her, she wept, and the soreness of her heart
grew better as the tension gave way to this
feminine luxury.

The journey was troublesome more than
long, there were two or three changes, and
at one station two travellers got in accompanied
by a bright-eyed middle-aged woman.
At first Mrs. Dorriman was too much wrapped
up in her own sad thoughts to take heed of
what was passing, but she was at length
roused by hearing her brother's name mentioned.


^' John Sand ford is coming out in a new
light," said the lady, laughing and showing
a row of pretty teeth. '^ Fancy bis adopting
two girls ! "

^^ I am sorry for the girls. Who are they?"
asked the elder of the two men.

^' I have not an idea — but I should think

VOL. I. I

he had some strong reason for going out of
his usual way."

'' I am very sorry for the girls too," laughed
the lady, who looked as though she had never
had any acquaintance with sorrow herself.

'^ They are probably in some way a charge
upon him. John Sandford's not a man to do
anything for nothing, it's not in him."

Mrs. Dorriman knew she ought to say something,
but she literally hand not the courage to
throw such discomfiture among them.

'' He's had a nasty illness, and the doctor
thinks he may have more attacks of the kind.
He does not think him the strong man he
looks."

'^ Then perhaps he is doing some act of
charity as a compromise with Providence,"
said the lady ; '' just as some men who have
never been charitable or even just leave their
wealth to some charity, as a sort of make-up."

So her brother was ill ! This, perhaps, was
why he had sent for her. But the two girls,
who could they be ? These two new ideas so

suddenly presented to her made Mrs. Dolman
oblivious to all that was going on. She would
have young girls with her and so she would
not be alone, and none but those who have
tried it, know how depressing long-continued
loneliness is, especially to one who (like Mrs.
Dorriman) was by temperament, one of the
women who cling to others, and to whom
acting and thinking for herself was perpetual
grief and pain.

From the bewilderment of this future, which
looked so much brighter to her with those
figures in the foreground, she was once more
roused by hearing, this time, not her brothers
but her own name mentioned.

^^ About Mrs. Dorriman; no one really
knows the rights of that story. Dorriman was
as good a man as ever lived, and he had heaps
of money when Sandford lost his. How it all
changed hands is more than any one knows,
but Dorriman died poor, and Sandford lives
rich. One day the truth may get known''

*^ The widow lives, does she not? I think
I 2

some one said so," and the lady smiled as
though there was something amusing in the
fact of Mrs. Dorriman's existence.

Poor Mrs. Dorriman, shrinking from it
and yet impelled by a sense of right to speak,
feeling that she ought to have spoken before,
now leaned forward and said in her sweet,
clear, timid voice, ^^ I am sorry ; I should have
told you before. I am Mrs. Dorriman. I am
going to my brother Mr. Sandford's house."

Then, with a heightened colour, she leaned
back again.

The three talkers, who were a neighbouring
manufacturer, his wife, and a friend, were
naturally taken aback and made profuse
apologies to her.

Then the lady, a Mrs. Wymans, said, with
her usual smile,

'sit was really your own fault; it was really
very wrong of you to let us talk, really wrong.
I hope we have not said anything bad."

And Mrs. Dorriman made no answer. She
gave a slight bow, feeling too heart-sore and

too unhappy to speak. Yes, how did all that
money change hands ? How was it that she
was left so poor and allowed to drift wherever
her brother chose to make her drift ? For the
hundredth time this question, which she now
heard asked in a careless voice by a stranger,
started up before her. Was it true that one
day she would know ? This last conversation
drove the words of Christie into the background
for a time, and when she arrived at the
station she was in a whole whirl of mingled
feelings, in which doubt and grief and indignation
and hope all seemed struggling together.


Jean, helpful and alert, saw her into a cab
and her luggage arranged on it and then
bravely said,

'^ Only for to-day. I will be down seeing
you tomorrow."

Then the tie between her and her mistress
seemed quite broken as she lost sight of her,
and, sitting down upon her kist, heedless of
the curious looks of the '^ freed folk " she had

come amongst, good hearted, brave Jean burst
into bitter tears and would cry, she said, to
herself. Yes, now Mrs. Dorriman was not
there to see it she would cry, it would do her
good.

She was sitting on her big box — the kist
that contained all her worldly wealth — the
tears streaming down her face and her pocket-handkerchief
crammed into her mouth, when a
porter came to her, too busy to be fully sympathetic,
and yet with a certain gruff friendliness
that was very comforting to her.

^^ And where are you bound for, my bonny
woman ? " he said, wisely ignoring her tears ;
^^ are you going to bide in the toon or are you
going on by another train ? "
Jean, called back to self-command, rose, and,
fumbling in the bosom of her gown, where she
kept her birth certificate, her money, her keys,
and other valuables, drew out, after some false
attempts, the address of the place she was
going to, and, in a short space of time, her
kist was put upon a hurly and she was following
it thither.

CHAPTER V.

In the meantime, had the four people who
were now to meet known anything about
each other's thoughts they would have been
spared something upon the one hand, and on
the other they would have seen cause for much
greater anxiety.

Mr. Sandford knew nothing — but he feared
a great deal, and when he saw the fly appearing
he was surprised himself at the sensations
he was conscious of.

Afraid of nothing as a rule, it was quite incomprehensible
to him that he should feel

uncomfortable ; his sister had always been
afraid of him, what was changed ?

Why did one momentary look in her face so
disturb him ? It must be that his illness was
still affecting him.

Grace and her sister saw it come with
different feelings. Grace was resolved to take
her stand from the first, and Margaret was so
much occupied with her anxieties for her sister
that she forgot to have any anxieties for herself
; and into this small group of people,
intensely interested, and full of suppressed
excitement, came the slight pale woman, herself
conscious of so much conflicting emotion
that she had not much room for acute observation.


So you are here," said John Sandford, ashe
gave her his hand. Kissing between these
two had never been in fashion ; and then in a
manner that he meant to be imposing, but
which only succeeded in being pompous, he
pushed the two girls towards her.

*' There," he said, '^ go and welcome her;

Mrs. Dorriman, my wards, Grace and Margaret
Elvers."

Grace held out her hand, with an air which
was entirely lost upon Mrs. Dorriman, who was
conscious only of one overpowering wish, to goto
her room and cry without being observed.

She was composed because she had in years
gone by learned self-control— any exhibition
of feeling seemed only to place her at her
brother's level of sarcasm.

Margaret, stirred to the depths of her kind
and unselfish heart, gave an appealing look at
her sister, and then bending timidly she kissed
the pale cheek and said something in a kindly
manner about resting and a cup of tea.

Mrs. Dorriman was surprised and moved at
the girl's action, and allowed herself to betaken
upstairs and looked after in her own
room with a feeling akin to gratitude.

The evidence of friendship offered just when
she was feeling so forlorn came to her as a
ray of sunshine. The house, so bare and so
desolate-looking in its exterior, had struck her

painfully as she went up to it. Her last home,
with its wooded knolls and a lovely background
of hills, was vividly present to her.

Why, if her brother did not want money,
had he sold the place ? Surely he nest have
had some liking for a home where so many
generations had lived and died, and, as her eye
took in the ugly garden and the closely-built
streets at a stone's throw only of his gate, her
wonder increased.

She was conscious of a perfect sinking of the
heart when she thought that here must probably
all the rest of her days be spent.

Christie's words rushed into her mind, and
then came the meeting at the hall door, and
Margaret's sweetness.

Yes ; that was a real comfort to her, and no
caress ever was bestowed with greater results ;
the drop of kindness just when she so needed
kindness sank into her heart. Whatever the
days might hold for her in the future, this
would always be gratefully remembered.

Poor Margaret, having left her, went to

congratulate Grace, as she did herself, upon
so pleasant a surprise. Instead of the disagreeable
and authoritative woman they had
pictured to themselves, here was a gentle and
timid lady, whom it would be easy to love.
Full of this relief, she found Grace in their
own room.

She was leaning against the shutters, and
her eyes were fixed upon the town. Margaret
knew by instinct that she was ruffled.

'anything wrong'' she asked, brightly,
going up to her, and laying her hand affectionately
upon her shoulder.

Grace made no reply, but she gave a little
shrug, and dislodged her sister's hand.

What is wrong, Gracie?" asked Margaret
anxiously; 'what have I done? Are you
vexed with me, dear ? "

*' Vexed with you ! oh, dear no ! but you
really are very dull, Margaret. You make life
here difficult for me."

I make life more difficult for you ! " And
Margaret coloured, partly from a just sense of

Grrace's unfairness, and partly because she was
indignant as well as hurt.

^^ How can I put that Mrs. Dorrinian in her
place, when my sister, my own sister, makes
such a fuss about her ? "

^^ It never occurred to me that she was a
person you would think of putting in her
place."

^' That is just what I complain of."

^'She seems to me so gentle and so timid. I
think it will be more difficult for her to take
up a position than you think. I cannot fancy
her ever saying anything to you you may not
like."

'^ If she does, I will soon let her know my
opinion about her ; but you heard what Mr.
Sandford said, and I mistrust these quiet
women. I feel as though she might be as
obstinate as possible. Did you notice . her
upper lip ? "

You are so much cleverer than I am,
darling, and so nmch quicker. No ; I only

J

saw that she felt coming here very much, she
looked ready to cry."

sewell, Margaret, if you think yourself wiser
than I am, I give it up. As 1 said before
making a fuss about her at the very outset
makes my part very much more difficult ; and
after all your violent professions it seems hard
that on the very first opportunity you fail me,
and take up a line of your own''

Poor Margaret ! Though it was not the
first time that Grace had accused her of
swerving in her allegiance to her, it was the
first time such an accusation had been made on
such serious grounds.

Very real tears stood in her soft eyes as she
held out her hand to her sister and said —

'^ What do you wish me to do ? What can
I do to please you ? ''

To please me ! Nothing ; only for your
own sake, Margaret, for the sake of being a
little consistent, you need not gush over her,
and pretend to like her, before you know
whether she is for us or against us."

She turned away, and began to change her
dress, her head held high, not yet forgiving.
Margaret felt as though the luxury of tears
would be a relief, but she thought she would
make one more effort to win back her sister's
cordiality.

'^ I am sure' she began, while her lip
quivered nervously, '' I mean nothing. I was
sorry for her, and showed I felt sorry, but I
think [ shall hate her if her coming is to
make differences between us."

'^ It need not make any difference if you are
only true to me," said Grace, firmly. ^^ Leave
her alone and watch me, and you can do what
I do."

^^ I never can," pleaded Margaret. ^'And
oh! Grace, sometimes, when you are disdainful,
I feel as if I must go and console. You don't
know how hard it is for people when you draw
yourself up and say something cutting. I
always feel so sorry for whoever it is.'^

^' You are a little goose," said Grace melting

a little at this tribute to her power, ^^you
exaggerate everything about me."

But she did not think so.

She threw her arms round her sister now
with a protecting gesture she herself was unconscious
of, and hurried to get ready for dinner,
in a way that Grace Rivers hardly would have
done some days before. At any rate, she had
learnt one lesson — not to be late for anything
Mr. Sandford was connected with.

The two girls went into the drawing-room
only as dinner was announced by an insignificant
little bell, and Mr. Sandford marched
off with his sister.

Placing her at the head of the table, he said
in his most pompous manner, ^^ It is my wish
that you act as mistress of my house, and that
all should consider you in that light," and he
glared round as though many were there to
hear this, and not only two girls who already
understood this.

Mrs. Dorriman, conscious of an action
antagonistic to his wishes, sat silent, feeling

as though she were a traitor ; never was there
any one more acutely self-tormenting, more
sensitive about anything she did, than this
poor lady. She was perpetually worrying
herself about trifles she might, or should, have
done or left undone, and this was no trifle ;
though she little thought that her presence
in her brother's house, and her being uprooted
from her little home, was due to the colour and
agitation that had betrayed to her brother that
she had knowledge of the papers he wished to
possess.

She roused herself after a time and was
then for the first time conscious of Margaret's
changed manner.

All the sweetness and kindness which had so
cheered her advent, and lessened the pain of
her arrival, had gone, and was replaced by a
cold indifference — which was Margaret's only
possible way of being unlike herself.

Poor Mrs. Dorriman imagined that she was
in some way in fault, and blamed herself for
her abstraction, but her efforts were quite

unavailing — the girl's one anxiety was to
prove lier loyalty and allegiance to her
sister. She was conscious of a dawning:
feeling of affection for the little woman who
sat looking pale and sweet opposite Mr.
Sandford's massive figure. She had felt her
clinging arms round hers and the feeling
had been of comfort and sympathy, but Grace
decreed otherwise, and Grace's word was her
law.

Never, perhaps, sat four people together
whose thoughts were of so different a nature ;
when four people live together, generally,
there is, at any rate a bond of union, some
interest, in which, however much they diverge
in their thoughts towards it, forms, at last,
something in common — here there was
nothing !

Mr. Sandford, at other times an acute
observer, noticed nothing to-night. The face
of his sister opposite to him affected him
strangely. No one had so faced him since
his wife had died, and he was so busy looking

VOL. I. K

through the long vista of years, and seeing
the one creature he had ever loved, looking
back at him from the past, that he eat
mechanically and did not speak.

At length he roused himself and addressed
Mrs. Dorriman, '^ I hope you will bring things
into better order," he said abruptly ; ^^ if the
cook cannot do better than this, you must
change her. I look to you. I'm not a dainty
man, but I pay for the best and I intend
having the best''

'rand I will do my best," said Mrs. Dorian,
gently.

'' You should know about things. I do not
know how it was done, but there was some
comfort in the old place, and I suppose you
had something to do with that."

''Of course I did see about things. I do not
know if they were very comfortable."

'* They were," he said, emphatically, " and
you will find they want stirring up in this
house. The morning I was taken ill there
was not one soul out of bed. I rang and rang

and only a wretched girl answered. You must
alter all that. I expect you to keep everyone
and everything in order, and in good
order too ; and," he added — looking round,
not at the girls but well above their heads —
'' if any one gives trouble, they go ! "

Mrs. Dorriman felt her heart sink. The
old manner, the old hard - handed way of
laying down the law, brought to her mind
times when in almost these very words she
had read changes distasteful and unfortunate
for her ; something of that helpless feeling of
her childhood came to her, when she had been
left to struggle on without care or affection,
when her nurse had been banished, and she
had to put on her clothes, and perform for
herself all that, till then, had been done by
kindly hands. For, though we live to forgive
many wrongs, and time mercifully softens our
regrets, and blunts the edge of our sensibilities,
there are two things we may learn to forgive,
but we never learn to forget — a wrong done
to us in childhood, when we were too helpless

k2

and too young to protect ourselves, and a
wound to our self-love in later life.

There was a prolonged silence, which became
at length a noticeable one. Then Grace, feeling
that it lay with her to show how little the purport
of Mr. Sandford's words affected her, said
in a light tone,

^'Do you ever see people here, Mr. Sandford
? ''

'^ See people!" he echoed; ^^ you can see
plenty of people whencA^er you look out of the
window. See people ! why it would be a
pleasant place if there were not so many to
see."

Of course I do not mean in that sense," said
Grace, with dignity ; ''I mean, do people call
here ? "

'' I have no doubt plenty of people will call
now'* he said, with mock solemnity, which for
the moment took her in, as he gave an old-fashioned
bow in her direction.

Grace bridled a little; her influence was

beginning to make itself felt even on this
rough man, she thought.

'^1 am not sure that the callers are just in
your line," he said, after a momentary pause''
Some are I doubt beneath your level, and
some I fancy a good bit above it."

^^ No one can be above Grace's level'
exclaimed Margaret, '^ she is so clever, and

'■'' Tut, tut," he said, ^' I wish every one had
so good a trumpeter, but Grace is nothing
very wonderful — I have not seen any proof of
her cleverness. Come now, Margaret, what can
she do ? Can she sew a seam, knit a stocking,
turn her hand to any useful thing, eh?"

Grace could do everything of the kind if
she chose."

^^ Then she had better try; it's worse to have
talents and let them lie idle than to be born
with none."

'' If it is necessary," said Grace, still speaking
in a measured tone. ^^ I think I could do
these things. I do not think knitting a stocking

requires a great deal of intellect I must
say."

^' But it requires industry, and I think you
are not industrious; however, my sister, Mrs.
Dorriman there, will arrange what you are todo,"
and, rising in his usual abrupt fashion, he
left the room, leaving Grace in a state of mind
which is difficult to describe.

Next day, breakfast over, Mrs. Dorriman
went to see the cook, outwardly calm but inwardly
with very great trepidation.

She herself was one of those quiet people
who have a genius for household management,
and she was blessed with that happy absence
of irritability and anxiety to domineer, which
wins its own way without any violent commotion.


Mrs. Chalmers, for some years so completely
her own mistress, was as ready to go
o& into a blaze as a well-laid fire. She had
quite made up her mind to one thing, that if
she was interfered with she would go. She
valued her place or rather had valued it because

she was entirely her own mistress, free to
get up and go out and come in without any let
or hindrance from any one. She did not mind
having these people, for the extra work fell
more ujDon her underling than upon herself,
but interference she would not have.

She had put on her best cap and apron,
ready to be summoned, and she would then
and there give out her mind — perhaps resign
her place ; but, instead of being summoned,
Mrs. Dorriman came down, looking so quiet
and yet so evidently resolved to do what she
felt to be right and with such a friendly air
and so much politeness, that Mrs. Chalmers's
unaccustomed knees bent, and before she had
time to take her stand she was talking respectfully
to Mrs. Dorriman and evidently anxious
to please her.

Mrs. Dorriman was shown all the lower part
of the house. What a contrast she thought it
to tie wide passages and large rooms of the
old home. She gave her meed of praise, made
Mrs Chalmers propose the dinner, made a few

suggestions, and went up-stairs, leaving Mrs.
Chalmers comfortably satisfied that she need
not give up her place — indeed, anxious to surpass
herself and please the new mistress.

Such is the charm of manner, even down to
those who do not in the least understand why
they are charmed or in what way it affects
them.

Mrs. Dorriman's next step was one which
required much more courage. She felt that
Margaret at sixteen could not have completed
her education, to use the stereotyped phrase —
for when is our education complete ? She
called the girl to her and began, in the low
voice which, to a close observer, would have
betrayed effort and a great shyness, to speak
to her about her work and her idle hours.

*you are young to have left school; too
young to give up steady work," she said
gently ; ^* shall we talk it over together ? "

Grace knows so much. Grace can help
me'' said Margaret, terribly inclining to this

kindly woman and held back by her sister's
words.

^^ Has Grace any plan? Suppose you call
her," said Mrs. Dorriman gently.

^' Grace," she began, ^^ about Margaret ; are
you going to read with her, have you made
any plan? Because she is too young, and,
indeed, you are too young, to leave off all
work."

'' I think, as I was at the top of my class
always,^^ said Grace, bristling up, " that you
may safely leave this question to me. I think
it so much better, Mrs. Dorriman, to make you
understand at once that neither Margaret or I
will stand any interference''

^^ I am afraid, without what you call interference,
I cannot do my duty," said Mrs.
Dorriman, quietly, but with a flush of colour
in her pale face that rose and died away again
immediately. ^^ What do you do in the mornings
? We do not know each other, my dear
Grace ; we are to live together ; will it not befor

our mutual comfort and happiness If we
agree to try and like each other ?

Grace was a little moved by this appeal, but
she was unused to be put in the wrong and
could not accept the situation gracefully.

^' There is nothing but that horrid old piano
with jingling keys. I cannot play upon it, or
1 should play to you."

Mrs. Dorriman went towards it, opened it,
and struck a few chords ; they responded with
harsh discords. She let the lid down with a
little sigh, music was to her a second nature.

^^No, you cannot play upon that," she said,
*' but books. What books have you both read ?
Do you like reading ? "

Grace and Margaret looked at each other.
A few pages of history each, read as a task ;
a few biographies of excellent people as
Sunday reading ; a few poetical extracts
learned by heart : this was the sum total of
their knowledge — all else in their empty minds
a barren waste.

^' If you will help me to unpack my books.

we may perhaps find something we might like
to read together," said Mrs. Dorriman; ^'and
if you would like to prove to my brother
that you are industrious," she added, laughing
a little, ^^ we can easily get some wool and
produce a stocking."

Margaret looked a little eagerly at her
sister ; she was just at the age when she
missed the regularity of the school life, and
when time hung heavily upon her hands.
The new feeling of interest and occupation
held out by Mrs. Dorriman was very pleasant
and gave her the first home-feeling she had in
that house.

But a glance at Grace again threw her
back, and she said with some hesitation that
it would be nice to unpack the books, and
appealed to Grace for some sign of consent.

Grace, however, was in no mood to be
pleased with any suggestion of poor Mrs.
Dorriman's, and, muttering something about
having something to do in her own room.

she went off alone there, in stately silence and
a very bad temper.

Mrs. Dorriman led the way to her room
upstairs ; where, by her wish, her heavy
luggage had been placed, and the lids were
unscrewed, and they set to work doing their
spiriting gently but very slowly, as the girl
opened many volumes, and desired to know
the history of each. But she knew too little
to be interested, really interested, in anything.
Grace would have concealed her
ignorance and merely passed everything over,
but Margaret was more natural, and Mrs.
Dorriman was by turns amazed and amused.
The girl seemed to have heard of no one, and
to know so little on every conceivable subject
that, every now and again, her questions were
absolutely ridiculous.

A rare edition of Spenser, exquisitely bound,
was handled reverently by Mrs. Dorriman. It
had been a favourite book of her father's, and
Mr. Dorriman had had it rebound for her.

'' What is that ? " asked Margaret, very

innocently ; '' oli, I see, the man who wrote in
what is called black-letter writing."

*^My dear," said the amazed Mrs. Dorriman,
'' sm-ely you cannot have been taught that."

Well, there is something funny about his
writing, so that trying to read it was no
use."

"^ I hope to convince you of the contrary,"
said Mrs. Dorriman with suppressed merriment
; not for worlds would she have hurt the
girl's feelings by laughing at her, and Margaret
went away.

Then she seemed to see herself with certainly
more education, but very ignorant still at the
age of seventeen, thrown so much upon herself
and her own resources for all amusements and
happiness — turning to these books, and losing
herself in silent delight as one treasure after
another opened to her enraptured eyes.

Her husband, himself fond of reading and
anxious to win her love in any way, had sjDent
a great deal in filling her library with books.
She had editions which were priceless of

various old authors, and the most perfect
possible collection of poetical works, including
many of those tender French poets from
whom in these days it is so easy to borrow
without detection, so completely are they out
of date and forgotten ; and, who living lives
apart from their fellows, seem to have kept
their old words and chivalrous sentiments
pure and free from the worldliness and the
grossness of their time.

But she was recalled to the present by
Grace's voice, and then she looked round to
see where she could put her books. There
was but one little bookshelf in her room.
She filled that and then went into the
drawing - room to see what could be done
there.

She found Margaret in tears, and Grrace
looking flushed and defiant.

But she had resolved to take no notice of
anything not immediately directed to herself,
and Grrace left the room.

Relieved by not being asked for any explanation,

Margaret threw herself now again
into the matter. The bookshelves, standing
almost empty, were soon comfortably filled,
and then Mrs. Dorriman, who had a happy
gift of arrangement, moved the tables and
chairs about, made a comfortable corner for
her brother, and gave a look of home to the
room which it had sorely needed, by which
time the morning had passed away.

In the afternoon Mrs. Dorriman wished to
go and see how Jean fared ; but she did not
want to be out of the way if the girls wanted
to go out with her.

Before she rose to find them, however, she
heard the hall door shut, and she saw them
walking down the avenue.

'' They might have said something to me,"
she thought, but she understood immediately
that this was another protest made by Grace
against any ^^ interference."

She went off herself, not sorry to be alone,
feeling the squalor of the narrow streets through
which she passed — like all people who are

easily impressed by the absence of any beauty
in life. She felt for the poor human beings
who toiled so hard for such a bare and unlovely
existence. The grey houses with their
dirty, ill-kept doors, and the ^' common stairs''
upon which went so many weary feet. In front,
a bit of trodden-down mud and a black stream,
in which dirty ducks and dirtier children
paddled. Her spirits sank lower and lower.
At length she arrived at the address she had
got from Jean, and was asked to ^' walk up the
stair " by a shock-headed girl, without any
attempt at tidiness, '' busy," and evidently
imagining that in that fact lay excuse enough
for all disregard of appearance.

Jean, clean, trim, but with eyes that told
their own tale of weeping, was scrubbing a
floor; unaccustomed to such treatment, the
shutters and woodwork all glistened, and the
floor was nearly finished. It was one of the
rooms, part kitchen, part bedroom, which you
obtain in towns where overcrowding is thei



rule. The window was small and high up —
worse than this, it could not open.

sand is this your situation? This the
place you were coming to, my poor dear
Jean?" asked Mrs. Dorriman, in faltering
tones.

^' 'Deed, my dear, I may just say, without
vanity, I could get mony a situation ; but I
am here working housekeeper to two lads — kin
to myself, my dear. No one to hurry me or
hinder me, and little to do. So little, I'll be
often down bothering you."

She spoke lightly, afraid of giving way.
The sight of Mrs. Dorriman brought back all
her own misgivings of the day before ; when
she had found herself in an airless room, with
nothing but filth and dirt around her, and nota
^' kent face " near her.

But Mrs. Dorriman must never know that
she had made a sacrifice to be near her ; and
with a fair attempt at a laugh she said —

^' You know, my dear, I was always ill to
command. Better this than be under a

VOL. I. L

mistress who might be a harder mistress than
ever you were to do with."

Mrs. Dorriman could not speak. She looked
round the room to see in what way she could
help to make things comfortable. She resolved
that something should be done to the windows,
and she noted other things. But the feeling
uppermost in her mind was, that it would not
be for long. Jean and herself — they would at
no distant day wend their way back to the
hillside together.

sand are you happy? Are you comfortable,
my dear?" asked Jean, ^' How is it
with you ? "

1 am comfortable, Jean, and have all to
make me comfortable ; but, like you, I miss
the great purple hills, the life and light of the
sea, the freedom and brightness of Inchbrae."

^' And yet you speak cheerfully, my dear; "
and the poor woman looked wistfully at her
former mistress.

^'I speak cheerfully, Jean," and Mrs.
Dorriman rose and laid her hand caressingly

upon the old woman's shoulder, ^^ because,
Jean, the darkest and longest day comes to an
end ; you and I will go back to the light and
the sunshine. We shall go back, Jean, there
again."

^^ But the place is sold ; it has passed into
the hands of a stranger," said the old woman,
wondering.

'^ We shall go back," said Mrs. Dorriman,
firmly. '' Yes, Jean, that hope keeps me from
despair; that conviction comforts me. We
shall go back to Inchbrae once more," and
so saying she left her.

CHAPTER VI.

In spite of a good deal of open opposition on the
part of Grace, Margaret, full of the enthusiasm
of a girl whose intelligence after being long
cramped suddenly finds an outlet, threw herself
heartily into a systematic course of real
study, and the mornings flew on pleasantly.
Mrs. Dorriman, who had read a great deal
during the lonely hours she had spent, had
theorized after the fashion of solitary readers.
Her views of life were not unnaturally entirely
pessimist, she rejected many high and great
ideas from a dislike to what she conceived to
be exaggeration. Her character was very far

from firm, and she was conscious of this and
other shortcomings, but her sweetness of
temper saved her from being soured. She had
a craving for happiness, without believing in
its being possible for her. Her spirits were
always low, and the effect of the harshness of
her brother, and of the neglect she had suffered
from in her youth, would probably pursue her
all her life, and affected her now.

She carried this negation of hope even into
her religious exercises, finding comfort chiefly
in passages about resignation ; and, though she
had a vague belief that in the future she might
have some share of bliss, she never expected it
on this side of the grave.

Then another and a most terrible question
troubled her greatly. She did not look forward
with any profound rejoicing, to the prospect
of once more meeting with her husband
whom she had forgiven, but whom she had
never loved.

That hope that spans the chasm between us
and the future, is not always the comfort it is

supposed to be, and indeed much may be said
about lier want of wisdom in dwelling upon
problems which must remain unsolved.

She was too timid to take her fears and
show her anxieties to any one capable of helping
her at all. She was conscious of feeling
disloyal to her husband in this matter, which
was often a trial to her; and she indulged
sometimes in speculations which unsettled her
and did not tend to comfort her.

Poor woman! When Margaret put those
pointed questions to her common to girls who
have begun to think out things and want help,
she read and re-read various authors only to
come to the unsatisfactory previous conclusions.
In this respect the association was not productive
of much good on either side, but,
excepting in this, the results were to make
both happier.

Mrs. Dorriman, married so young as to be
barely out of childhood, had the tenacity of
opinion and the strong bias in favour of her
own conclusions always to be found where the

mind has dwelt upon itself, and has not been
enlarged by friction with other minds, a bias
which no amount of reading tends to modify,
since each book is read and digested, almost
one might say distorted, by the views brought
to bear upon it, a mode of reading which maybe
compared to looking at a bright and a rainy
day through the same smoky glass which gives
everything its own hue. But the very exception
she took at times, served to arouse
Margaret's own powers of thought, and to
make her reflect upon her reasons for liking
and disliking opinions, and the language in
which those opinions were put before her.
Many fine sounding phrases fell to pieces when
treated this way, and many lovely poems became
to her so much more when she followed
out a thought therein shadowed forth.

Grace could in reality do .nothing to stop
this reading, and, though at first she made
many bitter observations, she had not the heart
to destroy her sister's comfort in these mornings;
and indeed, at certain times, when her own

idleness became oppressive, she went and sat
with them, preserving her independence by
making no remarks, standing, as it were, aside
and taking no part in any discussion, as though
her own mind had been long made up and
that these questions had been grappled with
and settled by her long ago.

Mrs. Dorriman, who was always more timid
when Grace was present, was always relieved
when she did not appear, and then took herself
to task for the relief. There was no doubt
that Mrs. Dorriman brought a great increase
of comfort to the place, everything was well
looked after, and Mr. Sandford recognised that
it was so, without exactly knowing in which
way a change had been made.

The one restless and dissatisfied person was
always Grace. The monotony of the days
became to her absolutely terrible. She had all
the discomfort of having put herself upon a
pinnacle without any admiring crowd to makeup
for the isolation. It was difficult for her to
come down. Advances of friendliness and

proffered affection bad been made in vain by-mrs.
Dorriman and now no effort was made. Perhaps
the hardest trial of all was the perceptible
loss of her sister's blind admiration for all she
said. To Margaret Grace was still beautiful,
graceful, and full of talents, which only needed
recognition to dazzle the would ; but she began
to think it just possible that Grace did not
quite understand things affecting herself and
Mrs. Dorriman ; and instead of accepting her
conclusions, as she had done all her life,
without question, she began now to endeavour
to argue with her, and though Grace bore her
down by a flow of language and silenced her
she remained unconvinced and Grace herself
knew it. This change, this falling off in her
allegiance, was laid to the charge of Mrs.
Dorriman, and when occasions arose that poor
lady was told much, which wounded her sorely,
about setting the sisters against each other.

There were times when Grace paced her
room in a perfect frenzy of impatience. Her
life was slipping away, she thought, and there

was 110 break, nothing in sight. What was
the use of being what she was — fitted to reign
when there was no kingdom ? Were her
gifts — for she believed in her gifts — all to be
useless to her ?

They had been four months together now ;
she had seen the snowfall turn black and
smutty and lose its beauty under the influence
of smoke. Some half-dozen people had called,
but they came to see Mrs. Dorriman. In a
thousand little minute things she found herself
of no account. This was not her natural
sphere, and she longed for something in which
her merits would be recognised. A good deal
of her dissatisfaction was entirely unknown to
Mrs. Dorriman, but she had so kindly a heart
that she longed to give the girl some interest
in life. It was sad to see her day by day
more dull, more apathetic, and more discontented.


Will you not come and look into the
housekeeping with me, Grace ? " she said, one
morning when she saw her, without even the

pretence of a book in her hand, throw herself
down on a lounging-chair, looking as usual
bored and dull.

^' What good would it do ? " asked Grace,
surprised by the invitation.

'^ I think a notion of housekeeping is a very-useful
thing. You may have a house of your
own some day."

^^ When that day comes I may learn it.
There is not much to learn, I suppose — any
intelligent person can order a dinner."

Mrs. Dorriman said no more.

It was rather surprising to Grrace that Mrs.
Dorriman was so fond of going into the town,
and evidently liked going alone. What took
her there ? Idleness being the mother of
curiosity as well as of mischief and other
things, she never rested till she found out that
she always went to one particular street and
to one particular house.

Unsuspecting Mrs. Dorriman felt as though
a bomb-shell exploded under her feet when
Grace said at dinner :

'what is the name of the person you goto
see at Baxter's Houses, Mrs. Dorriman ?"

The poor woman c lured and looked
nervously at her brother as she answered :

^^ An old servant of mine, if you wish to
know."

Her colour and her nervousness gave Grace
a sort of inkling that something more lay
behind, so she said with a laugh :

^' You must be much attached to her as you
seem to go and see her every second day."

Poor Mrs. Dorriman was ready to cry at the
suddenness of the attack. She answered
something in a low voice which was heard by
no one — but she required no defence. Mr.
Sandford, usually absorbed in his dinner and
taking small share in the conversation, looked
up keenly as Grace put the question, and when
she asserted the visits were of such frequent
recurrence he received a certain shock. An
old servant — who was she ? But he was not
going to have his sister bullied by any one

but himself, and he thundered out with an
emphatic slap upon the table :

^^ What business is it of yours, 1 should like
to know, who my sister visits or does not ?
I consider it very impertinent and uncalled-for
your speaking in that way to her ; and I
blame you," he said turning to his sister, ^^ for
letting her get the upper hand ; you should
keep her down, you should keep her in her
place."

Grace rose, white with anger. Margaret
trembling rose also

'sit down, both of ye," he said, in a tone
which awed them both, and they sat down.
When they eventually left the room Grace
went to her bedroom and Margaret followed
to console her.

But the consolation was not so great because
Margaret, while grieving for her being
wounded, could not think her in the right,
and was much too honest to say so ; and to
her sister no consolation could come unless

she was entirely placed in the position of an
injured martyr.

In the meantime Mr. Sandford sent for Mrs.
Dorriman. He could not be happy till he
had spoken to her about this. He did not
choose that she should be bullied but he also
did not choose that she should have old
servants and people in her interests at hand.

^^ Who is this person living here, and in
your confidence ? " he asked roughly.

'' My old maid, Jean."

'^ What made you bring her ? "

'' I did not bring her ; but, supposing I had,
if I did not bring her to your house, it cannot
matter."

'^ It matters, because you are keeping to my
wish ostensibly, but, in reality, you are opposing
it."

*^ I do not pretend to understand you," and
Mrs. Dorriman's spirit rose. This was going
too far. '' You break up my home ; you bring
me here; you deprive me of the comfort of my

personal attendant — and to what end ?
What is the use of my being here ? "

^^ Of course you cannot understand. You
cannot afford a separate house. There are
certain papers your husband had, which might
have made all different. You might ^"^ and he
looked at her earnestly and anxiously, '' have
found receipts and be better off; but the purport
of everything would have to be explained
to you, and, after all that has come and gone
between me and your husband, it would be as
well not to let a stranger step in."

Mrs. Dorriman shrank. She also had this
fear ; but we say a thing to ourselves that we
cannot bear to put into words, and now it was
dreadful to her to hear this. Her spirit died
again, and she said helplessly —

'-'' I cannot give up seeing Jean''

^^ How did she come here ? "

^' When I told her you would not — could not
have her here, she said nothing, but she
sought and found a situation here. She has

been ill ; and she has had no comforts ; and 1
must see her ! "

There was a pause. Mrs. Dorriman looked
at her brother anxiously. He was evidently
thinking over something. At length he broke
silence —

'' What is the tie between you ? " he asked,
abruptly. 'has she any of your things in
charge ? "

'^ Things ! " she said, surprised. '^ No.
Why, poor thing — where could she put them ?
No, she has no charge of anything ; and the
tie between us is but the tie of long service
and great trustworthiness. You are a rich
man, brother, and can command services ; but
to be poor and to be alone is to know what
faithful service given you from affection is."

'' That is a high-flown idea," he answered;
'Hhat is the sort of thing the doctor said. I
never found that sort of service available. I
was also to derive much satisfaction from the
society of young people. I cannot say that
the society of Grace Eivers affords me any

satisfaction; I think she is as disagreeable a
girl as I ever came across."

^' She has all the lessons of life to learn,"
said Mrs. Dorriman, gently.

'^ She had better learn them soon' he said,
gruffly, ^4f she intends to remain under my
roof."

^^ If she could marry, and have a home of
her own," and Mrs. Dorriman sighed, for this
did not always bring happiness.

'' And why should she not marry ? "

^^ There is no reason, except " and Mrs.

Dorriman made a startled pause.

^^ Well," said Mr. Sandford, ^^ except — pray
go on — you really are very trying sometimes.
What upon earth are you afraid of ? "

^' To marry, you must have a chance of seeing
people."

Mr. Sandford reflected upon this answer,
then he said —

^' You do not know it, but do you know
sometimes you say very sensible things."

Mrs. Dorriman smiled faintly, and left him,

VOL. I. M

relieved beyond expression that nothing more
had been said about Jean.

But her satisfaction did not last long. Late
in the afternoon of the next day she was told
a woman wished to see her, and Jean — much
too ill to have left her bed — stood before her,
pale, defiant, and all her spirit roused to resistance.


^^The master has ordered me away," she
said, ^^he came to-day and bid me go. He
threatened and stormed ! "

She was flushed and feverish. All through
the cold wind of the early spring she had come,
fever in her veins, and burning in her head ;
and now she dropped down upon a chair and
shivered, looking wild, and evidently was on
the verge of delirium.

The dinner-bell rang unheeded, and when
Mrs. Dorriman was fetched she sent word she
could not come.

Mr. Sandford, angry and amazed, went to
her room — to find Jean on a sofa, talking loud
and fast, incoherently, and Mrs. Dorriman

pale and composed, attending to her. She met
him with reproach.

'^ How could you? How could you'' she
began. '^ She was ill, poor thing ! and you
told her to go. But she shall not go ! I will
nurse her. My poor, poor Jean ! "

Mr. Sandford himself was startled. To do
him justice, he had not seen that the poor
woman was so ill. In the height of her illness,
upheld by a strong resentment against him,
she had come to his house, and there she must
remain.

No persuasion would induce Mrs. Dorriman
to consent to her removal to the hospital or to
allow any one to take her place by Jean's bedside.


The doctor came and went constantly, Mrs.
Dorriman, submissive and timid when she herself
was in question, was neither of these
things as regarded Jean.

That bow windowed room coveted by Grace
was made into a bedroom for her, but she
would not sleep out of Jean's room 3 she allowed

M 2

no other hand to tend her. Mr. Sandford was
astonished and touched. This was the weak
woman he had scouted, and whom he had
thought so incapable. He watched her come
and go with a perpetual amazement, and
learned by that poor woman's bedside something
of the service love can give and does give,
and which no money can buy.

It was a sad household because Mrs. Dorian
was missed by all, but as there is generally
bright spot somewhere, so in this instance
Grace thought she had found it, and that now
she had her opportunity.

She rearranged the drawing-room, making
the very moving of the furniture a protest
against Mrs. Dorriman's position as head —
she interviewed the cook, throwing so much
command into her manner that she was met
with direct antagonism. All the servants were
in arms against her, the dinners were bad, the
servants discontented, and the household bills
heavy. Grace knew nothing of expense,
nothing of the commonest rules as a guidance.

and she allowed no one to suggest or of course
tell her anything. Mr. Sandford recognised
the loss of his sister's services the moment he
was deprived of them ; and Grace had the mortification
of hearing him say to her,

'^ It is to be hoped you will be soon able to
take your own place again. The discomfort is
terrible, and we never get anything fit to eat,
and everything is at sixes and sevens."

Watching his sister's ways with the servant
she so regarded, he could not help asking
himself whether supposing he was ill, as ill as
this, he could command the same devotion.
He expressed this to Mrs. Dorriman one day;
she looked at him gravely and said without
any emotion :

'' If you were ill, I should try and do my
duty."

He turned abruptly and left her ; he had
hoped for something more, and yet what
reason had he to expect it ?

When Jean got better and required less

I

attention, Mrs. Dorriman found that all her
powers were wanted in a different direction.

Between a spoiled undisciplined nature like
that of Grace Rivers, and a character whose
salient feature was love of power, such as Mr.
Sandford possessed, it was impossible for the
constant association to go without friction.
Margaret was in a state of perpetual alarm,
giving her sister right always, from habit and
unreasoning affection, and therefore no real
use to her, and the first day Mrs. Dorriman
found herself able to take up her round of
daily duties, she found Grrace, not Margaret,
waiting to speak to her, Grace in a state of
excitement she did not try to repress, who
plunged into the subject of her troubles with
an abandonment and vehemence which went
far to frighten the gentle little woman, who
was expected to console, and understand, and
sympathise all in a breath, at a moment's
notice.

^' Your brother hates me, why does he have
us here ? " Grace began ; ^4t is cruel ! Why

does lie not let us go where at any rate we
might be free and lead our own lives, Margaret
and I."

She paced up and down, her hands clasped
before her, an angry flush upon her face —
pausing every now and again to look at Mrs.
Dorriman whose delicate forehead was rushed,
and whose attitude spoke of weariness.

^^Has any thing happened? What is the
matter ? What has gone wrong ? " Her
voice sounded cold and unsympathetic to
Grrace's ears. It acted like a drop of cold
water on heated iron.

Of course you don't care," she burst outwith,
^' you care for nothing; nothing seems
to move you ; nothing rouses you ; but can
you not see my sister and I are miserable and
wretched. ? "

'^ Grace," said the elder woman, and her
voice was full of real kindness, ^' would you
mind sitting down, it tries me sorely to see
you dashing about this way, and — I'm not

very strong just now. I have had a good
deal of fatigue lately."

^^ I am sorry," the girl said in somewhat a
hard tone, throwing herself into a chair,
feeling that all she had to say was more
difficult to say when she was deprived of her
manner of saying it.

^^ Let us talk it all out, Grace ; all the
bitterness, all the disappointment, everything
that is making you wretched. What is it you
wish to do ? What is it particularly you
complain of ? ''

*^Mr. Sandford is so unkind: he speaks so
harshly to me. I know he hates me."

*' And you have tried to win his affection,
you have done all on your side to make him
like you ? "

^'I know it is no use. And he does not
appreciate me in any way."

'^ Appreciate you ? "

'' At school I was always first and everyone
knew I was clever — since — and — here he takes
no notice. If he dislikes us, why must we

live here, why may we not go ? " Grace
persisted, anxious to cling to her point and
gain it.

I am afraid you laye never quite understood
your position, Grace ; that you really
know nothing about it ; and if I explain it to
you you will perhaps be very angry."

^^I think I understand our position," said
Grace, with a slight toss of the head, 'ewe are
his wards, Margaret and I ; he is our
guardian."

^'You are quite wrong, Grace; he is nothing
of the sort."

'^ Then why does he arrange for us ? I was
always told he was our guardian' and Grace
opened her eyes wide, and looked at Mrs.
Dorriman, surprised out of her usual self-assertion.


You know he, my brother, is in no way
related to you, except by marriage ? "

Yes, I suppose so."

'^ When your mother died — your father
being long dead, poor child — there was nearly

nothing " Mrs. Dorriman hesitated. It

seemed so hard to tell this girl what she had to
tell her.

Nothing ! but we have an income, Grace
and I ? "

"You have a small income, because my
brother gave up his wife's, your aunt's, little
fortune, and added to the little, the very
little, there was, and managing it skilfully —
there is as you say a little income, but Grrace,
my dear child, do you suppose that such an
income would enable you two to live in any
comfort as you have been accustomed to live ?
There is little over one hundred a year."

'^ Is that all ? " asked Grace, her face
crimson ; ^^ we thought that was only an
allowance out of our money, we never dreamt
there was nothing else. You are quite sure ? "
she asked, her face paling again; she felt this a
blow she could never recover from.

'^ My brother welcomes you to his house, he
makes me give up my pretty and quiet home
to come and be here so that all should go well.

He has a rough and a hard manner, but to you,
Grace, he has been good, to you and Margaret
he has been very generous."

^^ Is this really the truth?" asked Grace;
^^ do you mean to say that we have nothing,
Margaret and I, and we are not his relations ?
Why, why has he done this ? He does not care
for us. What is his motive ? ''

^^ He cared for your mother's sister, Grace.
He loved his wife with a passionate affection
time has not changed. Her anxiety was about
you, left to the world's mercy. Is it fair to
him that his kindness should be met with
scorn, and that, owing him what you do, you
should take exception to his manner and defy
him openly ? "

Grace was silent, kept silent by surprise and
by a passionate and impatient remonstrance
against the position she was placed in. It was
intolerable to her to have this weight of obligation
with no affection to lighten it.

^' He weighs us down with the sense of
obligation," she said at length; ''if he were

really generous he would make the load
lighter."

'^ He is a human being and imperfect," said
poor Mrs. Dorriman, who, while acknowledging
the truth of this, felt it came ungratefully from
the lips of Grace Rivers, who owed him so
much. snow, Grace," she went on, after a
thoughtful silence on the part of each, ^^let us
examine into your other grievances. I think
I have given you good reason for accepting
the home my brother offers. It is not beautiful
I own. It is to me everything I most dislike,
but he chooses it and there is no use in wishing
it to be bettered''

'' Then you, too, are dependent upon him ?"
said Grace; ^^ of course you are or you would
not so surrender your house, the hills and
rocks and river you have talked of so much,
without a strong reason."

'^I am not discussing my position or my
grievances," said Mrs. Dorriman, stung by a
careless word flung at random and making so
perfect a hit.

But Grace, this new idea in her head, found
Mrs. Dorriman much more tolerable to do
with. She was a fellow-sufferer, and, as such,
to be felt for ; there was a perceptible change
in her tone when she said,

^^ I think at our age we might see people
sometimes. I get frightened when I think
that perhaps all our youth may pass in this
way and no possibility of a change."

'^ That is a very natural thought. I also
have had the same idea. I have already
spoken to my brother."

"And what does he say ?'' asked the girl
eagerly.

'' He agreed to make some effort; then poor
Jean was ill, and everything has been left as
it was''

*rand now she is better you will speak
again :

eyes, I will speak again; and now one
word more. I hope what I have told you will
make you more inclined to accept my brother
as he is, whatever his faults may be. However

harsh he may have been to others, he has been
good and kind to you."

'^ I must first become accustomed to the
painful idea of owing him so much," said
Grace, in a tone of anything but humility and
full of a patronage, in her way, that made Mrs.
Dorriman regret she had revealed her own position
to her, and she soon rose and left the room.

Meaning to be kinder to her, Grace's manner
was more of a trial to Mrs. Dorriman than it
had been before. Unmerited impertinence is
bad enough, but to be patronised by a girl who
had no tact and a great belief in herself, was
quite beyond ordinary trials.

Just at that time, before Mr. Sandford had
time to note the difference in Grace's manner,
he received a letter which made a change in
the household eventually, though this change
dawned but gradually on the minds of those
who were affected by it.

The girls noticed that his manner became
more important, that he read and re-read this
letter during dinner several times and kept it

beside his plate, a thing unknown in his
previous history ; then, in a pompous voice and
addressing his sister, he said,

'^ Mr. Drayton, a person for whose family I
have a high regard, comes tomorrow to consult
with me on important business. We must
ask him to dinner."

^^ Very well," answered Mrs. Dorriman, not
fully aware of the importance he attached to
this arrival.

'^ He is a man of enormous wealth, enormous
wealth, and comes to consult me about some
investments." He rolled out these words with
immense emphasis, and looked round at the
three faces to see what impression his announcement
had made.

^^ Is he good-looking?" asked Grace, with
some interest in her manner. 'ris he amusing
? "

'ris he a friend of yours, John P " Mrs.
Dorriman asked gently. " I never heard his
name before."

Margaret was haute.

'' How can I tell what you consider good-looking,"
he answered, roughly. ^' He is a
fine strong well-built fellow, and lias seen a
great deal of the world, and he is a successful
man, which is more than being good-looking
or amusing, let me tell you."

'^ If he has seen the world he will be at
any rate interesting," said Mrs. Dorriman,
rising; but when they had reached the door
he called her back, and said in a tone of
mystery :

'' You spoke of society and giving the girls
a chance. I don't wish Margaret away, but
if George Drayton takes a fancy to Grace
she will have to take him."

Mrs. Dorriman shivered : this speech recalled
her own youth, when she had to
'' takes the husband he had chosen for her.

Instinct often gives a woman the right
weapon to use, and she said now hurriedly :

^' If you let her know this, if you tell her
this, she will set herself against him."

He looked at her with that sort of surprise

which always came to him when she showed
anything of the wisdom of the serpent he
considered her so completely without.

^' I think you are right," he said, slowly ;
^^ but I mean this marriage to be, and you
understand if you see a way of helping it I
expect you to help it on."

'^ If I like the man — if I approve," she
said, in a low voice, but with a firmness unusual
to her. '^ And if she likes him."

Mr. Sandford laughed his usual sarcastic
laugh.

''If! if! ^Z"/ " he exclaimed. He was
going to say something, but there was a lookin
her face that warned him he had better
not. He turned sharply round and went off
to his own room.

"^ Grace, my darling! " whispered Margaret
to her sister as they stood in the window that
night with the grimy world before them
hushed into silence, and the stars shining
down upon them, ^^ perhaps this will be the
Prince."

VOL. I. N

It does not sound like it, Margaret," she
answered, scornfully. '^ A manufacturer, and
a man no longer young."

^^ We cannot tell," said Margaret. '^ But
it may be, oh, I hope, I hope it may be your
prince, and that he may be charming and
everything your prince ought to be''

"I hope so," said Grace, whispering also,
and in a voice trembling with some suppressed
feeling. '^ For, Margaret, I am very, very
wretched here, and I sometimes think if I see
no escape for myself, if no change comes, I
shall die. Oh ! '' she exclaimed, breaking
into the silence of the night with a passionate
cry she could not repress, ^^ if life holds
nothing more for me than this, then give me
death!"

CHAPTER VII.

That finality of all tidings, whether of happiness
or of misery, brought Jean's long illness
to a close — and the pleasure Mrs. Dorriman
had in seeing her recover was often now
tinged with sorrow when she thought of the
separation that must follow.

Her brother had been forbearing, but his
patience must not be overtaxed. Mrs. Dorian
knew nothing of those changes of feeling
which softened Mr. Sandford towards her and
any one she loved. She stood no kmger to
him in the antagonism he himself had placed
her in. If she was acting against him in any

n2

way, if she knew what he dreaded, she might
know he was satisfied that the knowledge had
come without understanding. Her great
sweetness of temper was something soothing
to him, her kindness to her old servant, the
unfailing cheerfulness towards her, was a sort
of surprise to him. He found her no longer,
in his eyes, a weak woman, whom he could
keep by him, and under his authority, buta
woman full of unexpected tenderness.
Towards himself the habit of years gave
her a certain submissiveness ; he began to
wish, as he lay, often wakeful, that this could
be changed. But affection ! He had no
hope, no belief, in this as possible from her to
him. He had blighted her life ; her crushed
spirits were a standing proof of this ; and then
he would laugh himself to scorn.

His illness must have left some weakness —
why was he now beginning to think in this
way ? All his life, since his wife's death, he
had given no love anywhere, and expected
none. Then an uncomfortable remembrance

of the doctor's speech about recurring illness
made him shiver. If he were to be ill how
could he carry out his plans, how could he rise
to the position he intended to rise to ?

He was a far richer man than any one
thought, and he was accumulating money.
When he' had made what he intended to make
safe out of all the risks of trade which he
liked so little, he would buy the place where
his wife's people once had lived. They had
scorned him till they found he was rich, and
he chiefly wished to sit in their ^' high places "
for this reason. He intended winning an
election, being returned for the county, and
then — he could not think of marriage. The
one jure unselfish feeling he had was the love
for his wife, and his devotion to her memory.
He could never think of placing another beside
him.

His sister would be there, and then he
would go off into long reflections about the
girls : Grace who was beginning to be so

oppressive to him, and Margaret who was a
little like lier.

All unconscious of his softened feelings
towards her, poor Mrs. Dorriman, in the
meantime, was cruelly troubled and perplexed.
What she was to do about poor Jean,
she did not know. Inchbrae was not her
home, she had followed her mistress from the old
place thither ; besides, what comfort could there
be in seeing strange faces and strange people
there ? It was Jean herself who cut the
Gordian knot and brought things to a climax.

She was much too high-spirited a woman to
remain one moment anywhere as an unwelcome
guest, and she determined that she
would herself seek Mr. Sandford and say a
word of gratitude to him for the shelter he
had given her, and, if she found him '^ quiet,"
she intended pleading her own cause ; a cause
which, if hers, was also Mrs. Dorriman's.
Jean had that strong belief in herself which
is the mainspring of many a brave action.
She was, above and beyond this, a woman

whose prayers went up with a faith which
was beautiful and pure. Though religious
phrases were more in her heart than on her
lips, every action of her life was in a great
degree guided by this great and secret
strength. She was single-minded, full of prejudices,
and had a keen sense of humour,
seeing much to amuse her in ordinary things.
She was passionately devoted to Mrs. Dorian,
and though she was too proud of her, ina
right way, to allow it to any one, she knew
that she required some one near her to
befriend her — that, to use her own expression
about many another person, she *^ gave in " too
easily.

It was the very day Mr. Drayton was
expected. Mr. Sandford, who was ruffled
about some trifle, made an unusual fuss about
something at breakfast which was not well
done, and sent it out with orders that it was to
be made over again.

Mrs. Chalmers, already making much of
that something extra which falls heavily

where all is as a rule on a simple footing — lost
her temper : and, with all the delight of being
able to reach the man whose uncomplimentary-remarks
about her performances were so
frequently gall and wormwood to her, declared
she would go there and then and
would do nothing more for the household.
She arrayed herself in her bonnet and shawl,
and sat firmly upon her box, hoping and
indeed expecting that she would be asked to
stay — at any rate for that day — in view of
the expected visitor, and fully resolved upon
obtaining concessions if she did remain.

But Mr. Sandford, with all the ignorance of
a man who had never been obliged to think of
details, never for one instant thought about
the dinner, took her at her word, and insisted
on her going there and then.

Mrs. Dorriman's dismay first taught him that
he had acted hastily, and annoyed and worried
by the whole affair he went off to his own
room.

He was trying to forget it all, and was turning

over some papers, when a loud knock, evidently
given by a determined hand, came to
disturb him.

In walked Jean, her bonnet on, her shawl
over her arm, looking like going, in complete
ignorance of any disturbance, as she never put
her foot down stairs.

Mr. Sandford glared at her, he was not
'^ quiet" she saw, so she intended to express
her gratitude, which was the right thing to do,
and then depart and not say that word about
remaining which she would fain have done.

She was a handsome and imposing figure,
her kind and homely face, pale from the effects
of her recent illness, was surrounded by a full-plaited
border of lace, her print gown was a
purpose-like gown, and she had a shawl folded
neatly across her chest. She was the picture
and type of the good, unspoiled, old-fashioned,
country servant. Her manner was full of
respect, and free from any servility.

'' I am come to speak my thanks to you, sir,
before I go ; " she began, '^ I have been a great

trouble. Now I am well, I will thank you and
go my way."

'' My sister, not I, looked after you," lie
said.

^' She did that, but there's no one like her in
the world."

The two looked at each other, her keen
brave blue eyes saw the expression in his and
could not understand it.

'^ You think much of my sister."

*^ I think all the world of her. She has need
of love and care, and kindness — I will always
give her what I can''

*^ What are you going to do when you leave
this ? " he asked abruptly.

'^ I am going to get a place somewhere near.
Yes , maister Sands ord, you will not like it, but
it is my only pleasure to be near her, and she
needs me."

^^ What place will you get in Ronton itself ?
There are no gentlefolks there."

'^ I'll get some place ; I can put my hand to

anything, the Lord will provide for me," said
Jean in a low voice.

^^ Why need you go? Since you and my
sister cannot live apart, stay," he said ; and,
trying to hide the fact of his giving in from
kindly motives, he continued sternly, ^' I do
not choose my sister to be running through
Renton streets at all hours — as you and she
won't part, stay ! "

'' I am not sure, sir."

'^ What do you mean, you are not sure ? "

'' I must be guided by Mrs. Dorriman's
wishes, and other things."

'^ Well," he said, roughly, '^ I have asked
you to stay, and you can speak to Mrs. Dorian
and do as you like."

He was conscious of a great wish that she
should stay ; but he could think of nothing
more to say.

^' There is no room for me, sir, and I am
afraid you say it now, and will be sorry afterwards
; and the end would then be worse than

the beginning. It would hurt Mrs. Dorriman
more."

*you can do as you like," he said, more
determined she should stay, since she opposed
his will, ' ' but I cannot reconcile your affection
for Mrs. Dorriman with your determination to
leave her."

^^ Can you not?" said Jean, her blue eyes
flashing a little. 'can you not, sir? Can
you not see that the bread of dependence is
bitter to her and bitter to me ? You took her
from her own home, and her own quiet life — •
for some reason of your own — but I know it
was ill done. If I am here, it is another
weight upon the wrong side."

'^ Do as you like, and leave me, in Heaven's
name ! " he exclaimed, impatiently.

'' Heaven had not much to do with her being
taken away," said Jean, firmly, *' but I do not
wish to speak about what I know imperfectly
after all. What I wish to speak about is just this
Do you really want me to stay, and is it all
for her sake ? or is there something else ? ''

^^ The woman will drive me mad ! " said Mr.
Sandford. ^^ What else could there be ? No !
I do wish you to stay ; and with regard to
Inchbrae,'' he said, in a lower voice, 'shad I
known she cared so much "

'^ She did care," said Jean ; '' she greeted
till I thought she would wear herself out ; but
she is getting over it a bit, and she knows that
one day she will go back."

'^ Ah ! " said Mr. Sandford, '' what is that
about going back ? The place is sold."

^' Yes, it is sold," said Jean composedly,
and can be bought back any time. Your
sister knows the prophecy, and she'll go back
to it in God's good time. Till then we are
content — she and I."

some old woman's story," muttered Mr.
Sandford. ^' Now you will be good enough to
go and leave me."

'^I will wish you good day, sir; it's not
good-bye, till I know Mrs. Dorriman's
wishes."

Jean left the room, and Mr. Sandford took

his hat and went out. Nothing Jean said held
much meaning for him, but her manner impressed
him; and he went off to look into some
business matters, never for a moment thinking
it curious that his changed feeling towards his
sister had made him try to persuade her old
servant to stay in his house.

When he went home Mrs. Dorriman's face
was more cheerful than he had yet seen it.

^' I should like to know how we are to get
any dinner," he said, afraid of her thanks.

^' Oh ! brother, there is Jean."

'swell! what of that?"

'^ She is a first-rate cook, and she has agreed
to stay ; and she is getting on with everything
; and it is like a dream," said the poor
woman, in a perfect flutter of gratitude, and
relief, and happiness.

Her brother looked at her wonderingly.

You are an odd little woman'' he said, but
not unkindly. '' It does not take very much
to upset you," but he was glad all the same.

He had always felt uncomfortable about

Jean since lie had found out how much his
sister was wrapped up in her ; and he now felt
rather grateful to her for coming in to his plan
so readily.

It was dark when Mr. Drayton arrived, and
only Mrs. Dorriman was waiting to receive the
two, who came in together.

Mr. Drayton was a pleasant-looking middle-aged
man, with a countenance wanting expression,
a manner very nearly as undecided
as poor Mrs. Dorriman's; fair curly hair,
which was beginning to turn grey, and a childlike
way of speaking. Any one judging him
at first sight would have said at once he was
one of the men who go through the world unsuccessfully.
Sanguine to a fault, perpetually
disappointed, only perpetually to spring up
again.

He had a very absent manner, and frequently
missed hearing important facts,
because he was thinking of other things.
Passionate and kind-hearted, only believing in
himself to a certain extent, led by any stronger

mind than this own and making mistakes
he himself laughed at when it was too
late to remedy them. He was tall, extremely
slight, had very sloping shoulders,
and was inconsistent in his dress — at one
time wearing rough and ill-made country
clothes, and at another particular to a fault
about the cut of his things and the shape of
his boots.

His father had made the money, and had
left it all to him. He had been an affectionate
son and a most disappointing partner. People
said the business would not hold together two
years ; he had now held it together six since
his father's death, because Mr. Drayton had a
warm affection for the manager, Mr. Stevens,
was guided by him, and did nothing of any
importance without consulting him.

Mr. Sandford had, at that time, a great
project in hand, a project requiring far more
capital than he could furnish without disturbing
his own investments.

He had met Mr. Drayton once or twice and

looked upon him as a man through whom and
by whom a great deal might be done.

He had urged his coming to Renton for two
very different reasons ; he intended him to
marry Grace Rivers, and he arranged it so
completely in his own mind that he never even
put the case conditionally. He was beginning
to dislike Grace extremely, she interfered in so
many little things. It was all very well for
Mrs. Dorriman to allow it ; she was, and always
had been, one of the women born to be ruled
by every one round her, but he objected to the
perpetual assertion of herself which forced
Grace to be always, so to speak, on the disc of
the family life, to the exclusion of the others.

She annoyed him, and he had, from the first
moment of this discovery, resolved to marry
her to some one who would take her off his
hands, since, in these days, getting rid of her
in any other way might lead to comment. He
was resolved that Mr. Drayton, who always
declared he must marry, and who, in his lighter
moments, declared himself to be too much

VOL. I. o

bewildered by the enormous amount of beauty
and accomplishment he met with to be able to
choose, should have no such bewilderment now.
What Grace Eivers would do, whether she
would like or dislike the man, was to him a
matter of no moment, he never thought of the
marriage as affecting her in any way ; and had
Mr. Drayton been repulsive and hideous, or
even much older, it would not in any way
have made the slightest difference in his
arrangements. Grrace out of the way, Margaret
would be all by herself with his sister,
and he was beginning to love Margaret ; indeed,
the society of the women round him was
both softening his character and developing a
certain kindness in him which no one had ever
given him credit for. The one soft place
in his hard heart had been his love for his
wife, and since that time the only disinterested
kindness had been shown to her orphan nieces.
Though he told himself that it had all been for
her sake, and that it did not increase his happiness,
yet, when he was coming home after a

long and wearisome day, it was pleasant to
know that there was some one to meet him,
some one who looked after things for him. The
gentle face of Margaret was always a pleasant
thing to look forward to and, even as regarded
his sister, her even temper and great sweetness
had taught him, as we have seen, a sort of
respect, and his suspicions about her were
lulled to rest. He had hurried home to be intime
to go himself to the station and meet Mr.
Drayton.

Little did that individual know of the many
plans made in connection with him. He was
a little bored by the length of his journey and
glad to get out of the train. He was too good-tempered
a man to be cross, and he was flattered
by the importance Mr. Sandford attached to
his coming. This was something like success,
he said to himself, to be sought by a man of
so much influence.

Sending his portmanteau on to the house,
the two men walked up together, and soon
Mr. Sandford was taking his guest upstairs, to

o2

find no one there but Mrs. Dorriman. This
rather disconcerted him ; he had intended to
find a look of comfort and home and the three
sitting as he usually found them, and there
was only his sister.

^^ Where are Grace and Margaret?" he
asked, with the frown upon his forehead which
bespoke displeasure.

'^ They have gone to their room," she said,
in a deprecating manner; 'rit is later than
you think."

''Ah, you are punctual, I see," exclaimed
Mr. Drayton, with an unrestrained laugh which
accompanied most of his remarks. ^' I shall
have to take care ; I could fancy your brother
a terrible tyrant in the household, so strict. I
am right, eh ? " and he laughed again, still
more cheerfully than before, not having the
vaguest idea that he had spoken that true word
in jest which is often a painful enough truth.

Mrs. Dorriman found her conversation more
terribly common-place than ever. She had
made much of the slowness of the train and

had been met with another laugh, as though
some indescribably funny joke was wrapped
up in its tediousness. She had asked if the
country round Mr. Drayton's house was like
Kenton ; was it equally smoky ? and he,
laughing as ever, asserted it was worse, much
worse, and then a pause had come. The poor
woman was growing nervously aware of the
silence and she resolved to break it, dreading
to say something which would bring that laugh
back, quite unaware that Mr. Drayton was
himself shy, and that he laughed because it was
the only way of concealing his shyness.

What terrible sufferings a man must go
through afflicted with shyness ; a woman may
suffer but at any rate she is in her rights. She
may be timid and shy and self-conscious, it is
all part of a quality belonging to her, though
in an exaggerated form — but a shy man !

There is, to begin with, a feeling as though
it were not a misfortune but a fault ; it is contrary
to all preconceived notions of what a
man's character should be ; it is out of place,

and the unfortunate man who is so afflicted
seldom meets with pity or sympathy. With
an inkling of this truth, Mr. Drayton concealed
his shyness by an overpowering amount
of cheerfulness. He was consistently, perpetually,
oppressively cheerful ; and having
once assumed this character, it soon became a
confirmed habit. After all, to be incessantly
cheerful, and in apparently superabundant
high spirits, is a less afflicting thing than the
habit of looking at life through a smoky
glass, and depressing every one round one by
melancholy facts and a lengthened face. ^

Mr. Sandford came now to the rescue unintentionally,
by carrying Mr. Drayton off to
dress, and, with a sigh of relief, the poor little
woman went off to her own room.

Dinner was ready, the guest — with an immense
expanse of shirt front, was standing on
the rug, talking to Mr. Sandford, when the
door opened, and Mrs. Dorriman and the two
girls came in.

The moment they saw him all interest in

him vanished. They saw only a prosperous
middle-aged man, whose laugh was noisy and
vulgar. He was Mr. Sandford's friend, so they
need have expected nothing better, they thought.

Mr. Drayton, who had never understood
that the people living with Mr. Sandiord were
young girls, was astonished. They took so
little notice of him that he was piqued. He
was a man accustomed to consideration from
every one — especially from the young ladies he
knew. The indifference he now met astonished
him. His most amusing stories, which
he told with tears in his eyes and roars of
laughter afterwards, were received with
rounded eyes, and not a smile in sight. The
girls, indeed, thought him ridiculous, and
Margaret's grave young face never relaxed fora
moment.

From indifference, Grace's expression rose
to disdain, and Mrs. Dorriman, as usual, had
the whole brunt upon her shoulders.

How that poor little woman tried to do her
duty ! to show a polite interest, and to smile,

when smiles were expected ; while the ungrateful
man counted her interest and approbation
as nothing, and tried to win, at any
rate, attention from the other two.

Even to Mr. Sandford, not himself an acute
observer, there was something strained in Mr.
Drayton's laughter, something unfriendly in
Grace's expression. The moment he discovered
it — the instant he read tacit disapproval
and opposition — he was the more
resolved that these two should bow to his
decision, and accept his arrangement.

He observed, also, that it was Margaret who
attracted most of his guest's attention. That
must, of course, not be allowed ; he must give
him to understand at first that Margaret was
out of the question. He did not wonder at it,
however. There was a winning sweetness in
Margaret's expression that must please everyone.
Young as she was, there was a composure,
a repose of manner, wanting in her
sister. It was the difference between one

character absolutely forgetful of self and one
full of self-consciousness.

Conversation is never more difficult, than
when it ought to be there, never more spasmodic
than when people meet — who know
nothing of each other's likings or disliking —
and who have none of that light talk which
dwells on politics, great events, and the last
new song in one and the same breath.

Grace was intent upon the impression she
was making. He was uninteresting, but, all
the same, her silent disapproval of his noisy
manner would put her in the position of being
superior to all this uncalled-for merriment.

Margaret watched Grace, and felt sorry for
the unconscious Mr. Drayton — so sorry that
she began to talk to him — listening with a
sense of completely missing the jokes when
his laugh broke into his speech.

There was one subject of satisfaction to Mr.
Sandford, the dinner was excellent; and this
fact went far to soothe him. Men, though
superior beings, are apt to feel this important

affair, and Mr. Sandford was one of the men
who felt any failure in this direction with great
acuteness.

After discussing with playful heaviness those
topics of conversation started by Margaret,
Mr. Drayton threw a bombshell down by
saying to Mrs. Dorriman —

'' I saw a pretty little place you lived at till
lately. I went over to see a boat I had heard
of. A pretty place, but lonely. I dare say you
got tired of the sea. The sea is a very dreary
thing to me ; I am ill when on it ; cold when
near it, and I hate it when I see it. Ah ! ah !
ah ! "

^'jl love the sea," said Mrs. Dorriman; ^^it is
to me a friend and a companion. There is
always something grand to me in its monotony,
as in its angry moods. I love it best when it
sends showers of spray up into the air, and
comes dashing in in all its might."

^' Then what made you My dear Mr.

Sandford, are you aware that you gave me a
violent and painful kick just then? I wish to

goodness you would take care, if you knew
what a start you gave me ! "

'' I am sorry," said Mr. Sandford, as the
ladies rose and left them.

^' I am sorry I hurt you, but you must not
sneak of Inchbrae to my sister. She lost her
husband there, and altogether it is a painful
subject''

^^ But she did not seem to dislike my talking
about it."

^^ She conceals her feelings, but it is, I assure
you, not a subject she cares to discuss."

^^ All right ! I'll accept your view, but upon
my word your kick is still painful."

^' I had no other way of stopping you."

'^ Then you did it on pm-pose ! " and this
new light upon the subject sent Mr. Drayton
into the loudest and longest fit of laughter he
had yet indulged in.

It was not till next day that Mr. Sandford
had an opportunity of saying that word to Mr.
Drayton which should make him understand
that Margaret was out of his reach.

Mr. Drayton's idea of making himself
pleasant to the young ladies was buying some
of those endless and useless trifles to be found
in what are called fancy warehouses ; and Mr.
Sandford, meeting him when his own work was
done, found him surveying with much satisfaction
some gilt goats dragging a wobbling
mother-o'-pearl shell car all on one side, with
gilt wire wheels.

^^ I think Miss Margaret will like this," he
said, his face beaming with satisfaction.

Mr. Sandford's face was a study. That a
rational being with money waiting for investments,
which fact alone was sufficient to fill any
man's mind, could be enchanted with a trumpery
toy, and actually spend money upon it, was an
amazing idea to him, and he looked at Mr.
Drayton closely, as though he might see something
in his countenance calculated to explain
it to him.

^^ You need not trouble to take gifts to my
nieces," he began, gruffly, ^^ especially not to
Margaret."

Why especially not to Margaret ? " asked
Mr. Drayton, as he once more looked at his
purchase with admiring eyes.

^ ^ Because Margaret's a mere child, and her
life is pretty well arranged for her."

'^ Well, that is a pity. I think she is a great
deal the nicest of the two. I doubt Miss Grace
has a touch of pride in her. She looks as if
she thought a deal of herself ; always begging
your pardon for saying so," he added, laughing
heartily.

^'lam not sure I think pride unbecoming
in a girl," said Mr. Sandford, after a moment's
reflection, '^ Miss Eivers is good-looking''

'^ Now, I don't think her a patch on Miss
Margaret," said Mr. Drayton. " Well, it's just as
well you told me that lier future is settled ; I
am not at all sure, not at all sure, I might not
have been hit."

They left the subject and plunged into other
matters, but Mr. Sandford quite forgot to take
into account one thing, that the very way to
encourage any one to like or care for anything

is to put it out of his reach — forbidden fruit
is as tempting now as in the days of our first
parents, and he never, as far as his own wishes
were concerned, did a more unwise thing than
in adding this incentive to the slight dawning
of admiration Mr. Drayton had for Margaret
Rivers.

In the meantime the girls discussed him
with all the intemperate feelings of youth,
added to the disappointment of his being so
exactly the opposite of that coming prince who
was to rescue poor Grrace from the uncongenial
home.

"His laugh goes quite through my head''
said Grace, pettishly, as she sat in front of
the little mirror, and plaited her hair for
Margaret to brush. ^^ What an odious man he
is."

^^No, not odious, for he is good-nature's
said Margaret, gently, ^^ but I wish he did
not laugh so ; it makes me feel so melancholy ;
and oh, Grrace, how difficult he bi-s to talk
to."

^^ Difficult ! say impossible. And Margaret,
we thought it might be the prince," and
Grace folded her hands, laid her chin upon
them, and stared at herself in the glass.

^^ The prince will come, Grace; you will
see."

^^No, Margaret! I do not believe in him.
I believe in nothing now. All my hopes are
dead. What have they to live on ? We shall
go on living here for ever till we are quite
old and grey, and we shall never see any one
younger than Mr. Sandford and his friends,
and never see the world, or know any other
life," and she lowered her head in a fit of
despair.

^^ Grace, darling! you do not really think
that all your many perfections were given to
you only to be thrown away ; this despair is
unlike yom usual bright brave spirit ; and weare
not so unhappy now. You are not so
miserable here, now, Grace ? "

^' Yes," . said Grace, fiercely, " I am
miserable. I am sick of my life here ; of

the ugliness of everything. I hate it, Margaret.
I hate it more than I can say''

'^ And I was growing contented," said poor
Margaret, with a little suppressed sob ; ^^ I am
so much less gifted than you, darling, so much
less full of restless life ; you must forgive my
being so different, so easily satisfied — it was
selfish, I might have thought of you'' She put
her arms round Grace affectionately.

The sisters sat in silence and then Grace
spoke again —

'' The only good thing I know about Mr.
Drayton is that he lives in the South ; I envy
him that, I envy his being near London ; it is
the only merit he has."

^^When I said he was good-tempered,"
rejoined poor Margaret, anxious as ever to
bring her own conclusions, even about trifles,
into harmony with those held by her sister,
'' I think he is good-tempered as a rule, but I
fancy if he were to be vexed or disappointed
in any way he would be persistently angry.
I do not think he would forgive easily."

^^ In other words you think him vindictive.
Well, Margaret, I think you are
right. And I also think him not worth
talking about, I think him hateful," and
Grace rose and stood before her dressings
again. ^* Oh ! " she exclaimed, clasping
her hands together, ^^ what it would be, to me,
to leave this place, to go away, once again to
England ; though school was tiresome, it was
better than this. I would give all I am worth in
the world to get away. Sometimes I dream,
Margaret — I dream of floating away — of
hearing beautiful music and lovely voices. I
am so happy ! Then I wake — and I am
here ! "

VOL. I.

CHAPTER VIII.

Me. Drayton, in the meantime, took greater
pains to talk to Margaret, to discover how he
could please her, with no particular object in
view ; but she interested him, in the first place,
and the fact of her life being ^' arranged for "
made her still more interesting. Besides,
paying marked attention to all she said and
did enabled him to leave Grrace alone. He
was not a sensitive man, but Grace's impertinence
was much too open not to go home to
him. She despised him and showed she did
so far too openly, and from passive disapprobation
he began to dislike her heartily. The

girls were right, his was a character that was
vindictive. He was wrapped up in a thick
skin of self-esteem; he was good-humoured
and cheery so long as he was admired and his
vanity satisfied by flattery, direct or indirect,
but once his self-love was pierced or wounded
it rankled, and woe to the person who had
inflicted the wound.

His visit was drawing to a close ; he had
been with Mr. Sandford for some days, and sofar
nothing had come of it. Grrace was out of
the question, and Mr Sandford saw it. The
investments he wished him to make were
equally undecided ; Mr. Drayton would do
nothing without consulting his manager, and
was waiting to hear from him. He extended
his visit for two days, and he spent those two
days in trying to make Margaret understand
something of his feeling for her. Mr. Sandford
was at his office all day and Mrs. Dorriman
said nothing ; and though Mr. Drayton's way
of looking at Margaret and his fits of absence
might have enlightened him he thought lie hod

p 2

made all that so impossible that it never gave
him any uneasiness, and in two days he would
be gone.

But the old story was repeated in this
instance. Mr. Drayton, in hurrying home to
have a word with Margaret, managed to slip,
and, falling the whole length of the flight of
stairs at the office, came down on the stone
flags at the bottom with a bruised shoulder and
a sprained leg, and of course had to remain at
Renton.

Mr. Sandford had to go to his office daily
with the full consciousness that his unwelcome
guest was making the most of his opportunities.
Still he hoped things might come right in the
end.

Poor Mr. Drayton hardly regretted this
accident since it placed him near Jier^ Margaret,
the lady of his dreams. For love had come to
him in a violent fashion, and he acknowledged
to himself that if she would not listen to him
he would be miserable all his life.

Love plays such strange pranks in its flight.

In this case it gave the self-confident man
timidity ; his noisy laugh was modified, his
manner softened. He was very much in
earnest.

Margaret never for one moment thought of
his meaning anything. She was very sorry
for him, as any kind-hearted girl might be for
the sufferings of any one or even any thing,
and this pity gave her voice a still more
dangerous softness. Each day found him
longing to speak to her and losing courage
when she came near him. He was longing to
know what the arrangement meant that Mr.
Sandford had dwelt upon. Longing to hear
from her, about herself and her future,
because, once he knew that, his course
would be plain. If there was really nothing
in which her heart was interested would it not
be possible to alter things ? She was so young
she could not already have met her fate.

She was so often with Mrs. Dorriman he
seldom saw her alone ; it was with a throb of
pleasure that he saw her come into the drawing-room

alone one afternoon, some snowdrops and
ivy-leaves in her hand. She had been walking,
and she had thrown back her cloak and pushed
her hat off her head a little, and she came forward
to fill some glasses with her flowers, unconscious
of his emotion, full of some thought which had
suggested itself to her whilst she was out, and
a smile breaking the gentle gravity which washer
habitual expression.

There are still many glasses to fill," he
said, as, lying a prisoner upon the sofa, he
watched her accustomed fingers arranging and
re-arranging the pure, white blossoms with the
glossy background of leaves.

She looked up with a little smile and a
heightened colour.

'^ Those are to stand empty till tomorrow ;
Grace wishes it. I thought you would like a
few to look at, but tomorrow Grace is going
to arrange all the flowers."

^^ What is that for? Is tomorrow a great
festivity ? Miss Grace does not generally give

herself any trouble for nothing," he said
laughing.

'' My sister takes trouble when she thinks it
necessary," said Margaret, with a pretty,
dignified reproach, quick to resent the slightest
implied disapprobation of her beloved Grace ;
^' tomorrow will be my birth-day. I shall be
seventeen," she said, with full consciousness of
her advanced years.

^^ Seventeen," he murmured, '^ only seventeen
! "

^' Did you think I looked more or less than
that ? " she asked gaily.

I hoped you were more than that," he said
in a confused tone; '^ I knew you were very
young, your uncle told me that. He told me
something else about you," he went on trying
to gain courage, and trying to read her countenance,
which without a shadow of suspicion
was tinned towards him in all its sweetness
and candour.

^' I hope he gave me a good character."

^^ Your character needs no giving ; it is
written in your face."

He spoke in a lower and more hurried tone,
and she once again raised her eyes to his in
surprise.

^^ '^ Is it true ? what does he mean when he
says your future is arranged for ? Is there anyone
? " he brought out in quick agitated tones.
Margaret was startled ; if her uncle had said
this, he meant it, and she knew enough of his
will to dread having to submit to any ting
he chose for her.

Her whole being rose in protest : i

^^ My life is not arranged for, though I do
not know what those words mean, and there is
no one," she added very vehemently.

He saw how true her words were, and lie
hurried on afraid of losing courage, of not being
able to say what he wanted to say, if he
paused.

^' Margaret'' he said in a tone that compelled
her attention, and trying to raise himself as he
read her face. " If you have no one, if there

is no one, if you are free to be won, may I not

try and win you?"

Poor Margaret shrank back.

'' No ! " she said, breathlessly, ^' oh ! no ! ''

'may I not try?" he pleaded. ''I am

more than double your age, but need that

matter? I never have loved anv one, and I

think I could make you happy. I should not

expect you to love me in the same way, and I

could give you much, I could surround you

with luxuries, and grudge you nothing for

your happiness, you should not be dependent."


'' If I loved you for these things I should be
unworthy, do you not see that ? "

He did not heed her.

'-' You know you do not care for this narrow
life, you would like being in the South, in
London, you should have a house where you
liked, you should do what you liked."

I cannot," said Margaret, red and pale
alternately, '•' I am sure you mean to be kind,
but your words are hateful to me. They are

bribing me. No ! better to live anywhere, • :
better to be as we are, and as you say dependent,
than to be false to ourselves. I cannot
say anything else, and oh ! pray, pray, say
nothing about this to any one, do forget it. It :
is quite, quite impossible."

His voice was broken by disappointment
and a sense of helplessness.

^^ I cannot forget it," he said, and, hearing
Mrs. Dorriman's voice, Margaret left the room
hurriedly.

He dwelt upon her words in the way that
people have of hugging a painful remembrance.
There must be some one else he thought, and
he tried so to comfort himself, but in vain.
His vanity was wounded, but he was too
thoroughly in love with her to heed that so
much, he was cruelly hurt. What was the use
of the flattering assertions of his people ? he had
always been assured of success if he wanted
success, and now he had failed.

He was very silent, subdued, and unhappy.
He longed now for recovery ; the place was

hateful to him. He dreaded seeing Margaret
again ; he was afraid Mr. Sandford might read
his story ; he was irritable and restless, and
very very miserable.

On the top of this came the answer from
his cautious manager strongly advising him
against Mr. Sandford' s scheme, and giving
very excellent reasons with which he could not
but be content.

He was so fully aware of his own incompetency,
that he never for a moment disputed
his conclusion ; but he was too much upset,
too much unlike himself, that night, to go into
anything in the shape of business, and he was
wheeled into his own room early, pleading
headache, and happy to escape from the
family party that evening, and be alone with
his unhappiness.

His absence created no surprise. Mr. Sandford
was indifferent ; he was a little annoyed
by some checks he had met with in his
business things, and a little more irritable
than usual, a little harder about Grace's shortcomings,

and very violent and disagreeable to
her all dinner-time.

Margaret was still unhinged. Mr. Drayton's
words had agitated her, and she was sorry for
him, more sorry than she could express, when
she saw how really he suffered. She could not
understand how it was that he could see any
merit in her, while Grace was by ; only to be
sure, Grace had been so persistently antagonistic.
But for that she, Margaret, would
have escaped, and Grace would have known
what to say so much better. Thinking it over
she was afraid she had been unkind, but she
had been so taken by surprise.

It was not till the sisters were in their own
room, and the house was hushed for the night,
that Margaret told Grace what had happened.

Their favourite way of talking when the
weather made it possible, was standing at
their open window — a window that looked
a little away from the town ; the clear air
predominated over the smoke of the busy
town then, and what remained was hardly

I

perceptible. The great deep blue sky of
night T^dth its '^ thousand eyes " made up to
them for the dull darkness of the days.
When it was chilly, one plaid covered them
both as the two young faces looked out into
the stillness, and whispered their thoughts to
each other there.

Grace," said Margaret, in a low tone,
feeling shy even with her sister, her other self,
about the great event of the day, ^^ I have
something to tell you, something we never
dreamed of, that you will be as much surprised
to hear as I was."

She clung a little closer to her sister, putting
her arm round her waist.

'shave you?" asked Grace, wonderingly,
but not roused to much curiosity as yet : ^^ it
is wonderful that anything can happen in this
place. Every day is like the day that has
gone before ; each day is as dull and as
empty of anything we can care about."

^^ You will be surprised, Grace ; but I want
you to promise not to laugh at him."

*' Laugh at him ! " re-echoed Grace. ^^ Is it
Mr. Sandford?"

'^ No, he knows nothing, and of course we
must not tell him."

^^Him — you said I was not to laugh at him,^^
said Grace, suddenly startled into consciousness.
^'Is it anything connected with Mr. Drayton
? "

'^ Yes," murmured Margaret, in a low voice,
he spoke to me this evening. He told me,

Grace, that he loved me. I was so sorry

about it."

^'Why should you be sorry? It must not
be thought of in a hurry ; but we must try
and be sensible about it," answered Grace.

^^ It does not require much thought," said
Margaret, surprised, almost bewildered, by her
sister's quiet tone, as if the question could be
weighed. '^ I told him at once it was quite
impossible of course."

'^ But you need not have done it in such a
hurry, why not think it over?" Grace spoke
as though she was disappointed.

Margaret was conscious of the keenest pain
she had ever known in all her life. She
paused for a moment, almost breathless. Her
sister, then, saw a possible conclusion widely
different from hers : that she did so seemed
to set them further apart in feeling than they
had ever been. ^^ You yourself have done
nothing but laugh at him, we have laughed
together," she said in a pained voice; ^^ he was
to be the prince, and he came, and you
yourself said how middle-aged and uninteresting
he was — do you forget, Grace ? "

'' I do not forget, Margaret, darling, it is
true ; but if I encouraged you to laugh, and
in so doing have spoiled the future for you —
and for me," she added, in a lower tone.

^^ Spoiled the future ! " exclaimed Margaret,
wondering, ^' we think differently. I am
sorry, I was very sorry, because he cared so
much — but no future with him is possible.
Think, Grace, how annoyed we have been
by his noisy laughter, by his endless jokes,
by his very ways. How is it you forget ? "

It is different," said Grace. ^^ Mind, I do
not say, take him ; but I say you might have
thought of it for a little while. What did he
say, Margaret can you remember ? "

'^ I can remember some ; he was very kind ;
and he said something about making me happy
and about living where I liked in London, or
anywhere, and giving me luxuries. I Imted
his saying all that, and I said so. I said it
was like a bribe."

^'It was not nice," said Grace slowly, 'thought
not to have said it. And yet — oh,
Margaret'' she exclaimed, fervently, "think
how near we have been to the realization of
our dreams! To leave this hateful place —
which is choking me, and making me wretched
to go away, to live in the centre of all that
is worth living for ! "

Margaret was perfectly overwhelmed at this
discovery. Grace was disappointed ; she
wished her to marry this man, whom she had
laughed at, and turned into the bitterest
ridicule, ever since she had seen him, and had

seen that he was not in the least like the expected
prince who was to rescue her !

The poor child could not get over it. She
stood still clasping her ; but she felt as though
her world had crumbled to pieces at her feet.
She was roused from the deepest and cruellest
pain by feeling Grace's tears dropping fast
upon her. Grace was weeping, and she was
the cause of her tears. She struggled with a
feeling of indignation also. A sense of being ^
unfairly and unjustly put in the wrong, made
her less hurt than angry after a moment. It
seemed as though in a supreme moment of her
life her sister had failed her.

'' Grace," she said, after a long silence
seemed to have made her voice startling, '^ if
this had come to you, would you have done
it?"

*^ How can I tell ? " said Grace. " Nothing
comes to me, it seems."

'' But you can imagine — you can pit yourself
in my place."

VOL. I. Q

'' No, I cannot ! We are so different — you
and I."

'rand yet we used to think alike, up till
now, Grace. I have always seen the wisdom
of your thoughts ; you surely cannot counsel
me to marry a man who has never appeared tome
in any but a ridiculous light''

'^No, I do not counsel it," said Grace; ^^ but
I cannot help seeing that this was a chance for
us both, and that it has gone."

Margaret shivered.

^^ It is getting cold," she said, abruptly,
'' and I am tired."

She kissed her sister with a long, lingering
kiss. It was as if she were bidding farewell to
the sister she had known, so much had her
words jarred upon her heart and hurt her.

Grace slept. Through the uncurtained
window, with no blind between her and the
bright stars she so loved to look upon, Margaret
lay awake.

She was only conscious at first of a vivid and
keen disappointment. All Grace's cutting

speeches about this inn's inferiority were fresh
in her memory, and now — she thought it
possible I Then she thought of all their high
expectations when they left school, and of the
way in which Grace had been made a sort of
leader among them. • Grace, who had never
really worked, who only did things when she
felt inclined, whose work was, as often as not,
done for her, and who took all for granted, as
due to her personal influence — why had she
the position she took up? Softer thoughts
succeeded these; during their long stay at
school how often Grace had defended her from
the oppression of others. How often she had
used her influence in her behalf ; how often
stood out till she had obtained some concession
for her.

Loving words and caresses, the numberless
little actions that knit sisters together, floated
before her. The times without number when
she had been filled with pride ; and how proud
she was of Grace. If she could be seen ; if
only the world could see her, she would have it

Q2

at her foot— so she had always thought, so she
thought stilL Then as a flash came the
thought, -^ Could I do it ? " She thought of
all it might give Grace ; of the many things
she might have in her power ; and she began
to feel once more bewildered ; her brain was
getting weary ; her eyes were closing, and her
lips framed the words, ^' I cannot do it," as
she sank into slumber.

The stars looked down upon her innocent
face — ruffled with the first real care or sorrow
it had ever known — they faded as the day
strengthened ; and then came the blaze of
early morning, and the long shafts of light
everywhere, and her seventeenth birthday had
come.

She met Mr. Drayton that day with an overwhelming
sense of consciousness, but she was
reassured by his manner, perhaps she had
exaggerated — all unwittingly — to Grace and to
herself his despair and his passion, for he met
her with a smile in which there was nothing
to be fc been save good-will, and he congratulated

i

her upon having reached so advanced an age
in something of his old manner ; then he 2^1*0-
duce his birthday-gift, a ring, deep-set with
stones, and with a half-laughing reference to
her uncle, Mr. Sandford, for permission, put it
into her hand. She took it unwillingly, feeling
afraid that in taking it she was in some way
giving him cause to think she might change,
and she felt no change was possible for her.
But she was obliged to accept it and to put it
on, and, on the whole, the day passed off well.
Mr. Sandford looked anxiously for some indication
of any liking between Mr. Drayton and
Grace, and was disappointed afresh to see
none.

Mr. Drayton was obliged to go, and his
going put an end to all hopes about an investment,
and the disappointment in two quarters
made itself felt in the home party, but was
skilfully veiled by Mrs. Dorriman, whose duty
it seemed generally to be to stand in the
breach and turn all storms and disagreeable
aside.

These things, however, once more made Mr.
Sandford think of the past. The interest in
the present and the anxiety he had felt to
arrange matters had driven the past further
from him.

Poor Mrs. Dorriman, as she caught her
brother's eyes fixed upon her, little thought
how he was weighing her in the balance,
wondering whether she would show herself
more pliable now in the matter of those papers
and how best he could talk to her about them.

She herself had put the subject away from
her when she first entered his house. She had
a confused notion that even thinking of them
was treachery whilst under his roof; having
done this the companionship of Margaret and
the small round of household duties filled up
her time and her thoughts ; she strove hard todo
her duty, and she did it well, giving nothing
a divided attention. By degrees the papers
and their possible contents became as a forgotten
tale. She had the consciousness that

they were there, but they were not before her
mind now.

Something might have been uttered by Mr.
Sandford, had not his attention been drawn to
Grace. She had spoken some words that had
roused even gentle Mrs. Dorriman to indignation,
for the words had reference to Jean.

'' Her illness was nothing much," she was
saying, ^^ and she gained her point. She got
poor Mrs. Chalmers out of it and stepped into
her shoes. I liked Mrs. Chalmers myself."

^^ It is very unfair to say this of Jean," said
Mrs. Dorriman, with a heightened colour ;
^ ^ she never meddled or interfered, and I never
asked her to stay; she stayed because Mrs.
Chalmers left suddenly and we had no one
else."

'' Yes, my dear Mrs. Dorriman, but whit did
she leave suddenly ? There are two sides to
every question," said Grace, with her little au
of superiority, caring nothing really about the
question, but in rather a state of irritation, and
arguing merely because she had no other way

of venting her ruffled feelings. Lie was unreasonably
cross, first because Mr. Drayton
was not what she had expected, and then
because something might have come of his
visit and nothing had come, and she saw before
her the monotony of days, and nothing, no
excitement, nothing in sight. Her spirits were
low and when this was the case she was
always cross.

'what are you driving at?" exclaimed
Mr. Sandford angrily; ^^ what do you know
about it ? "

^^Only that that Highland woman, Mrs.
Dorriman's servant, managed to get Mrs.
Chalmers out of the house. I suppose I may
have an opinion on the subject ? '' said Grace,
her colour rising and her temper also.

^^ You have no business to say anything of
the kind," thundered Mr. Sandford, too angry
to restrain his voice, sending terror into the
timid soul of his sister and making Margaret
turn pale, while she instinctively rose and
stood by Grace ; ^^ Mrs. Chalmers ventured to

be insolent to me and she left, as all people
may expect to do who venture to show insolence
to me or mine."

^^ If you have an opinion I may have mine,"
persisted Grace, too much roused herself to
feel afraid of him.

You may have an opinion but you are not
entitled to express it in my house," he answered,
still more irritated by her manner ;
'^ you can wait for that till you have a house
of your own, a thing which appears to me very
problematical, since no man would care to have
an upsetting, conceited young woman as a wife
with no fortune, or looks, or any single recommendation."


Grace was pale with anger. Margaret
turned upon him like a young lioness.

^^ How can you say such unkind, such untrue
things ? " she exclaimed passionately
'^ Oh ! Grace, my darling, do not heed him."

'^ I do not heed him," said Grace, magnificently,
wounded and stung beyond belief, and
quivering with passion, ^^but I want to know

why you keep) us in your house, hating us so
evidently — we will not stay, we will go. You
offered us a home, and now you speak as
though we were a burden. We will go,
Margaret."

^^ Speak for yourself, I offered you a home
for the sake of one I loved. I did not know
you then. When I saw what you were, I still
kept that home open to you for the sake of
your sister ; you put yourself above her in
everything, you have made her believe you
her superior in all things, but she is worth a
dozen of you, and so every man in his senses
will think as they know you."

Grace was in tears by this time, and Margaret
tried to get her to go out of the room,
but she was struggling forwards, she would not
go till she had said something, and she meant
the last word to be very cutting.

^^ Brother," said Mrs. Dorriman, imploringly,
'^ you are wrong ; you are saying things now
in the heat of passion that you will be sorry
for afterwards. It is hard to be obliged to eat

the bread of dependence, and to have it east
up to you."

'rit is her own fault' he said, angrily ; 'she
gives herself airs and graces as though she
were above the ground she treads ujDon. It
makes me ill the way she goes on, and she
must hear it I "
'' Spare her now."

'' Oh ! I'll spare her, but she has to lower
her head ; even Drayton would have nothing to
say to her, though I did my best, and praised
her up to the skies when I spoke to him."

'that is more than enough!" sobbed
Grace, as with Margaret clinging to her she
rushed to her own room, and the sisters sobbed
out their misery in each other's arms.

But crying would not help them ; they resolved
to leave the house, to go far from this,
moliere they did not exactly know ; they did not
know any one except their school mistress, and
having left her with "flying colours it seemed
terrible to them to have to go back and face

the wonder and the pity they would meet
with.

They were both so young and so inexperienced.
They sat thinking, not wholly miserable
now because they were conscious of a sort
of excitement and they were together.

Grace at that moment could not help thinking
what a small beginning generally leads to
large conclusions — this beginning had been so
very, very trifling.

She had been walking up and down one day
to obtain the amount of exercise she conceived
necessary to her well-being, the day had been
damp and she kept to the gravel in front of
the house.

Jean, who was at the open window, to use
her own expression, trying to get strong, was
talking in her rich guttural voice to Mrs.
Dorriman, who was in the room, though out of
sight, and was watching her.

Conscious of observation - though only the
observation of an old woman — Grace, who was
proud of her way of moving, stepped forwards

and backwards with still more daintiness than
usual. Lie heard Jean say —

' What gars Miss Rivers walk yon way,
happily hop from ane side till another ? ''

And then in a moment she answered her
own question —

^'Ou, aye, the gravel's hard; and she'll have
corns."

Grace retreated, with a feeling of hatred
against her. This little affront was the cause
of her impertinence to Mrs. Dorriman, and all
that had followed.

Nothing could be done that night, and when
the long chilly evening came to an end the
sisters crept into bed. They had come to no
resolution, they only intended to go away ;
but it may be noted that in this emergency
Grace's superiority failed to assert itself— it
was Margaret to whom she turned ; Margaret,
who, barely beyond childhood, was to think for
both.

The last thing Mr. Sandford wanted was to
have the difficulty solved in any way derogatory

to the position he had taken up, of befriending
two girls who had no real claim
upon him. If they left his house, all Kenton
would hear of it, and put their own conclusion
upon it.

Like all men who act and speak in a passion
he was very angry if he was taken at his word.
He found it so easy to forget his harsh sayings,
that he never could understand that other
people should have any difficulty in doing so.

He had wished to wound Grace and bring
her down, and then was annoyed by her retreat.
Mrs. Dorriman had so often smarted
from his tyranny in old days that she could
fully understand and sympathise with the
girls ; and the incessant rudeness of Grace to
herself did not prevent her feeling for her.

Mr. Sandford had implied, and almost said,
that he had offered Grace, so to speak, to Mr.
Drayton, who would have none of her. She
was womanly enough to resent the insult for
Grace, as representing girlhood, and she was
so indignant with her brother about this that

lie, for the time, lost all sense of dread. He
would not come upstairs, but he sent to request
her to go to him to his own room, where he
was sitting sending long puffs of smoke across
the room. He saw her glance at his pipe, and
laid it down — the act in itself spoke of a
changed feeling towards her. She keenly remembered
in old days how persistently he had
made her write for him and talk to him, while
the fumes of his pipe had made her feel so ill
she could hardly do either.

^^ Well ! what is to be done?" he began,
looking at her keenly underneath his shaggy
brows.

'^ I am sure I do not know," she answered,
helplessly.

'^ Well, you had better think. What is the
use of being a woman if you cannot arrange
things ? "

And Mrs. Dorriman thought ; and then
spoke out her thoughts — a thing new to her
when her brother was in question.

CHAPTER IX.

Mrs. Dorriman, like most shy people, spoke
quickly when she had anything to say that
cost her an effort, and she said rather abruptly,
though with a little deprecating air, ^^ You see,
you were wrong — you must feel that now."

'' I feel nothing of the kind, and I do not
see it, either. This is a new tone for you to
take with me."

*' It is a right tone just now, you asked me
to help to see what could be done. Grace can
never forgive what you said — never."

<' Why not''

'' Was there any truth in it ? Did you
really speak to Mr. Drayton about her ? "

Mr. Sandford sat looking straight before
him. He could not quite remember at first
how it had been. Had Mr. Drayton spoken
first, or had he mentioned Grace to him in the
first instance? Then he remembered, "Drayton
spoke of Margaret. He said something about
her admiringly. I did not want him to have
any notion of Margaret — I did not know how
far it might go. I wished him to like Grace,
and I did say something. Yes, that is true.
He would not see it, and I am not surprised ;
but, at any rate, he led up to it, he spoke first."

'^ Then it is not quite so bad for her. I may
tell them this ? "

You may tell them anything you like".

'' I only wish to tell them the truth."

Just as you please''

^' Brother ! " and Mrs. Dorriman leaned forward
a little, and her gentle face flushed a
little, 'these children are living here with

VOL. I. R

you by your wish ; you must not make it hard
for them."

^^ Saul among the prophets ! Why, you are
coming out in quite a new light''

Mrs. Dorriman shrank back again. She
might have answered him and said that for
these girls she had more courage than for herself,
but she knew the wisdom of silence and
she held her peace.

^*What do you think they will do?" He
asked the question with assumed indifference.

'^ I think they will go away. They are both
high-spirited girls. Margaret feels it so much
she feels any slight offered to Grace more
even than Grace does herself ; she is perfectly
devoted to her sister."

'^ You must prevent their going — at any rate
in this way," he said, not looking at her, but
looking straight into the fire.

^' How can I prevent it ? " said the poor
woman, helplessly ; she felt as though life was
very hard to her.

He did not answer her, but went on looking
straight before him.

Then an inspiration came to her. ^'If I
went with them somewhere, after a time perhaps
they would come back."

'' That would do," he said, slowly.

^' It would cost something," she said, always
nervous when money matters were in question,
and looking at him anxiously.

'you can have any money you want' he
said, carelessly. '^ When would you go ? "

'' We should have to go at once — tomorrow.
I am quite sure the girls will want to be off at
daylight." She thought to herself that had
she been so insulted she would not have waited
till daylight. '^ I think it will be better to goas
soon as possible, and Jean will take care of
you."

^^ I am not afraid of myself, thank you; it
is only going back to the days before you
came."

She said no more, but wishing him goodnight
she went upstairs. To-morrow gave but

ii

little time for any preparation, and then she had
to arrange where she could go with the girls.
In this matter she could be guided perhaps by
their wishes. She called Jean, who generally
sat up for her, and told her in concise words
what was to happen.

Jean was fairly taken aback, not unnaturally
her first thought was about herself. '^ Is it
me, ma'am, that is going to be left to look
after Mr. Sandford ? I shall never be able to
get on with him."

'eyes you will, dear Jean, you please him
already, he is always saying how well everything
is done."

^' Oh, I'm not afeard for him when he's in a
good way," said Jean, stoutly, '^ but what will
I do when he gets rapacious ? I'll be feared
of my life of him then.' '

^' Oh, Jean, do not make difficulties," said
poor Mrs. Dorriman ; ^^ it is hard enough, and
in the wide world I do not know where I am
going with these girls ! '*

** That's bad'' said Jean, sympathising fully

with the position of affairs ; ^^it's a hard case
to go to an unbent place, with other people's
children too ! '' She made no more difficulties,
she put everything ready, but she strongly
advised Mrs. Dorriman to prevent the girls
going early. ^^ Go at a reasonable hour, and
why not ? '' she insisted. '' What is the good
of setting people's tongues wagging? they'll
aye be speaking whether or no, but no harm
comes if the things they say have no legs to
stand on''

The early morning roused Grace and Margaret,
and they went to the window and looked
out.

The night had been bright, and, though the
moon had not been visible, there had been that
soft starlight which is so mysterious and
beautiful. With a vague hope of seeing a fine
morning which would inspirit them they drew
near, and gazed blankly at the scene before
them.

A grey, leaden-coloured sky, a hopeless,

pitiless rain, mud everywhere, and everything
cheerless, drooping, and miserable.

Tears came into Grace's eyes, and she and
Margaret clung together for a moment.

^^We must go," said Margaret, to whom
nothing else seemed possible.

^'I suppose we must," said Grrace, looking
blankly before her.

Their spirits sank. Margaret, moving softly
so as to disturb no one, dragged out first one
then another of their boxes. She was resolved
to go on with the preparations. She had been
more deeply wounded than even Grace by
those words of Mr. Sandford's about Mr.
Drayton ; and then came this terrible thought
was his offer the consequence of something
said by Mr. Sandford ? If so, how doubly
glad she was all had ended as it had. Grace,
always easily influenced by the aspect of
things, was in a terrible state of depression.

She turned her head round once or twice
and watched Margaret, but she never offered
to help her. She did so hate discomfort ! and

the prospect of going out and facing the dirt
and rain and cold broke her down. Her spirit
had forsaken her, and sitting there with a plaid
thrown over her she cried miserably.

Margaret was too much occupied to notice
that her sister's face was persistently turned
away from her. She was kneeling facing the
door, while with hands trembling a little from
cold and partly from agitation she was putting
into the bottom of the boxes their heaviest
possessions. She would not take time to think
of the future, of where they should go, or what
they were to do. To get away — that was her
thought, to be far from this hateful position
for Grrace, to shield her from all chance of
hearing anything so hard again. . . .

Noiselessly she went on, and mechanically,
trying how the little old work-box took up
least room, placing it sideways and lengthways
with that carefulness regarding detail which is
often the outcome of great excitement, when
she was startled by a knock at the door.

The sisters involuntarily drew together —

Grace having dashed the tears away from
her face. It was Jean, a tray in her hands
and some hot tea for them. She took the
whole thing in at a glance, saw the look of
depression in Grace's face, and Margaret's
expression of resolution.

^^ My bairns," said the good woman, ^' if
without offence to you I may call you so —
I heard you moving ; work is ill on an empty
stomach, and the morning cold. Take up
your tea, it will do ye good. And now," she
went on as the girls took her advice, '^ what is
it all about ? "

^^ Mr. Sandford has cruelly insulted us''
said Margaret, reddening, ^' and we are going
away."

'^ And where will ye go ? ''

'' I — we do not know — but we must go
away from here," both the young voices chimed
in.

*swell, it's no my place to preach — an insult's
ill to put up with— but Mrs. Dorriman
has one of her headaches, and I've to ask you

to go and see her at a reasonable hour, ye ken.
I trust she's sleeping now. She's been sae
put about. She's going away too."

^^ Going away — Mrs. Dorriman is going
away! then," said Margaret, ^^ she has taken
our j)art.''

The sisters looked at each other.

'^ And did you ever know Mrs. Dorriman
take any part but the part of the weakest ? "
asked Jean. ^' See how she stood by me — not
but that your case and my case are two different
ones — yes, bairns, they are very different.
Mr. Sandford may have a rough
tongue, I'm no denying it — whiles I myself
am afraid of him — but you're no exactly kin
till him, and he offered you a home, and has
been good to you in many ways. It's no my
business to preach," insisted Jean, '^ but I
think it's an ill return to him to set all the
tongues wagging about him. Go ! of course
you can go, but you can leave his house
decently, and not in a mad-like way, particularly
as you do not seem to be expected
anywhere else."

"He said very terrible things last night,"
said Margaret, ^' and we must go."

^^ I'm not saying anything against it," said
Jean, coolly, " but you cannot go till you have
seen my lady, and you cannot see her till a
reasonable hour. She is going too, and she is
going on your account, and you owe her that
much. See," she continued, looking at Grace,
who was knocked up and ill now from the
agitation and want of sleep. " Your sister is
ill — go back to bed, my bairns," she said,
^' and I'll bring you something by-and-bye,
and you must see Mrs. Dorriman before you
go away — before you make any plans."

Grace was too glad to lie down, never very
strong; she was suffering now, and Margaret,
vexed at heart, saw that Jean was right.
Grace ill, it would be cruel to make her move,
cruel, if not impossible. She was herself
too much excited to go back to bed. She
went on when Jean left the room, arranging
her things in the open boxes, moving quietly,
as Grace, worn out with her crying and the
emotions of the morning, sank into sleep.

As Margaret watched her, and noticed the
swelled eyelids and look of unhappiness, she
blamed herself for not having thought of her
grief and sorrow before. Nothing she thought
then would be too hard for her, no sacrifice
too great for her to make on her behalf. She
knelt down beside her sleeping sister and
offered up her innocent and earnest morning
prayer, and she went on making quite a solemn
vow to make her happiness her chief object in
life, never to think of herself, but to put Grace
before her always.

She rose comforted, as we receive comfort
from a great resolve — the decision seems to
bring its own strength with it.

Turning to the window she saw that the
day was more hopeless than ever ; rain in the
country pattering on the green leaves brings
with it a refreshing and not altogether a
melancholy sound ; the effect of a heavy rain
is to wash the grass into brilliancy, and leave
glittering traces for the first sun-rays to turn
into beautiful prismatic effects; but rain in

the outskirts of a town where every pathway
is of coal-dust and the mud is black from the
same cause — when the rain brings down with
it dirt and blacks and insoluble portions of the
grimy smoke— is a dreary and wretched thing.
Only those who do not live in their surroundings,
whose imagination lifts them up and beyond
these influences, or are too busy to heed
them, are not weighed down by them.

She was startled to see a cab coming up to
the house. She looked out, and with indescribable
feelings in which relief was uppermost
she saw Mr. Sandford and some luggage
drive off towards the station.

It was breakfast time, and just as she was
turning to go down stairs, and went to see if
Grace was still sleeping, Mrs. Dorriman came
to the door and Grace started up.

Margaret met her with a little misgiving.
She only knew the fact as Jean had told it to
her. Mrs. Dorriman was also going away, and
on their account, and obeying her first impulse
she said to her, ^^Is it true, you are going

away also ? Are you vexed with us ^ But
you know we cannot stay''

^' Children," said Mrs. Dorriman, and her
soft sweet voice imposed silence upon them
both, '^ you took my brother up wrongly. Mr.
Drayton spoke first, and the sting is gone I
think, then — had it not been so I could understand,
and I can feel for you ; but my brother
said I might tell you the truth, and this is the
truth. But he sees, and I see, that the life
here is not suited to you — you cannot expect
my brother to change his habits and his home
for you. His business is here and here his
home must be. But he has given me leave,
he has given me the means, to go with you
somewhere for a time. I think this wise — we
will go somewhere and have a change and
begin in a new way when we come back.
The first question is where do you wish to
go?"

Grace and Margaret heard this speech with
an emotion and thrill of gratitude. Grace felt
as though she had never done Mrs. Dorriman

justice. To go somewhere, anywhere away
from this, and yet not have to regret it — to goas
she had thought it impossible to go ! Words
failed her, and it was Margaret who thanked
Mrs. Dorriman, and who expressed something
of the relief and gratitude they both felt.

Mrs. Dorriman was not insensible to the
charm of Margaret's affection ; but she was nota
woman given to much demonstration. She
closed the question at present by telling Grace
to lie still. She would send her her breakfast,
and, taking Margaret with her, they went
downstairs. It was to a woman of her temperament
a very strange bewilderment now,
to have the world to choose from, and not
know where to go.

One plan after another was discussed by
her and Margaret between the demolition of
one scone and the attack upon another. The
question was not settled, but Margaret felt
thankful in her heart of hearts, giving Mrs.
Dorriman credit for the whole arrangement
of the difficulty.

When Grace, refreshed, though still pale and
bearing traces of agitation, in spite of her sleep,
joined them, the great matter was again talked
over.

'' We cannot go from here," said Mrs.
Dorriman, with unwonted firmness, '^ till we
have settled where we are to go, and are sure
of rooms."

^^ Will not that take very long?" asked
Margaret.

'once we agree about the place — writing
and hearing in reply will take little time — we
can telegraph," said Mrs. Dorriman, with a
certain pride in her unlimited powers. She
had, never of her own free will, sent a telegram
in all her life.

Then a brilliant idea came to Margaret.
'^ Let us go South, and try one jDlace first ; if
we do not like it we can try another."

Grace was enchanted.

'' And now," said Margaret, who seemed to
be taking up a new position that mornings

*ewe owe you so much; what do you like
best ? ''

Oh, my dear ! " said poor Mrs. Dorriman,
her long self-repression giving way, and surprising
the girl by her glistening eyes and
brilliant flash of colour, 'give me the sea
and the hills ; " and though, as half ashamed of
having shown her craving for both these things,
she added, hastily, '^ Put me out of it, my
dear ; never mind me. T can be happy anywhere."
Their first move was soon decided
upon now. To one of the lovely bays at the
mouth of the Clyde they resolved to go, and
with hearts fluttering with excitement, at one
moment studying the Railway Guide, at another
a map, they decided to go to Lornbay, and
then hastily resumed their packing. Three
days came and went swiftly, and satisfactory
answers having been received about rooms in
the best hotel, Mrs. Dorriman, not without
various doubts as to her fitness for this great
responsibility, found herself alone with the
girls, leaving Renton with all its varied

experiences behind them in its murky vale of
smoke.

It often happens that the realization of a
wish brings with it a certain fear as to whether
the intensity of the wish has been altogether
full of wisdom, particularly is this the case
when we are conscious of having thought of
ourselves, to the exclusion of any other consideration.


Of the trio who were whirling to the mouth
of the Clyde, Grace was the most disturbed
and the one least able to enjoy the change of
scene, the one upon whose spirit lay the shadow
of a reproach.

She was conscious of having from the first
placed herself in a position of antagonism to
Mr. Sandford. She had intended him to recognise
her merits, and to allow her to influence
him as she had influenced those school-companions
to whom she had been as a superior
being. But she had forgotten to take into
account his temper, his prejudices, and his
passions ; and, though she now recognised that

VOL. I, S

Mrs. Dorriman.

she had failed, she blamed his obtuseness, and
not her own powers, for the failure.

Margaret was evidently much to him ; she
was nothing, and the one person who had come
there, though he fell far short of being a
prince, had utterly also failed to see in her any
attraction.

This also she imagined was due to some
fault in him and not in her. Margaret had a
way of effacing herself, of putting herself so
completely out of the question, that Grrace's
vanity was almost excusable. Feared in the
belief of her possessing many gifts, flattered
by the small world around her, it would require
a much severer blow to her pride than Mr.
Sandford's rudeness and Mr. Drayton's blindness,
before she learnt how wide a difference
exists between the value we put upon ourselves
and the value placed upon us by outsiders who
are not biassed or prejudiced in any way in
our favour. To the indifferent world poor
Grrace would simply be an ordinary-looking

girl who gave herself airs. But she had this
still to learn.

The beauty of the late spring was filling
every copse and valley through which they
passed. Everywhere was the budding forth
of those tender hues which bring a sense of
quiet refreshment to the eye ; on every sheltered
bank the primroses were gazing at the
passers-by like faint stars from their deep leafy
beds. The mountain torrents here and there
were quivering with excitement as they raced
down the hill-sides bubbling over with the joy
of having escaped from the imprisonment of
the winter's frosts. When the train stopped
they could hear the twittering and singing of
birds ; all these things of everyday occurrence
and of no importance in everyday life, perhaps
; but to these three, who had felt the great
want of the fresh beauty of country life, and
had passed some months without any of these
cheering influences, they came as a breath of
Paradise.

Grace began to respect Mrs. Dorriman when
s2

they changed stations, and she saw the quiet
practical way in which everything was arranged.
Then they sped on their way along the banks
of the Clyde, and an exclamation burst from
Margaret's lips. Mrs. Dorriman's eyes were
moist. The sea came in sight where the river
widened ; the evening light was falling over it
all touching with a golden gleam the ripple
of the water. Some yachts were lying at
anchor. Away to the South rose faint blue
hills as on the West. Even Grace, too much
self-absorbed as a rule to be passionately alive
to natural beauty, felt it all, as she had never
in all her life felt any scenery before. The
movement and life all framed in this exquisite
scene thrilled her. She forgot herself, her
hopes, her ambitions, and all else, and, unconsciously
holding Margaret's hand, she found
herself giving back an answering and a sympathetic
clasp.

The bustle of arrival came as a break to the
high-strung feelings of Mrs. Dorriman. She
had not been to this place since the days of

her girlhood ; when her father had gone for
change and she had accompanied him. Can
any one look at the scenes of their youth and
compare the still-remembered visions of those
days with the blank reality of their lives ? All
seems unchanged, everything seems to have
stood still. We remember the gnarled trunk
of that tree, its very boughs seem hardly to
have lost a twig ; the same wild flowers grow
under and around the great grey stones, where
so often we gathered them, with supple limbs
that sprang across the burn as lightly as any
redeem. Now we stoop stiffly, our suppleness
is gone from us, and we are afraid of even the
stepping-stones ; they are still there, but weare
woefully changed. Mrs. Dorriman was
not old enough for so painful a contrast, and
her activity was still stirring her to action, but
the elasticity of her spirit was gone. She
could still feel things keenly, but her powers
of enjoyment had gone ; she feared more
than she hoped, she had lost the freshness of
her feelings ; she was saddened and subdued.

the habit of her mind was depression, she
expected evil and not good. Nothing for so
long had come to her in the way of pleasure,
that she had ceased to think happiness could
come to her at all, and she drifted on in her
life without any aim, only trying to do what
was right. Even heaven seemed to her a vague
and far-away dream, which was not to her a
positive joy because of that uncomfortable
distaste we have alluded to about her husband's
perpetual companionship.

But when their informal but comfortable
meal was over and they had separated for the
night she stood long looking down on the
moving lights upon the water ; the black hulls
of the larger ships sent dark shadows in vivid
contrast to the moonlight rays, the boats flying
about with their twinkling lights; the splash
of oars came up to her in the stillness ; every
now and again a hoarse cry rang out as boats
hailed each other, snatches of song came upon
the light wind that fanned her face. She
could hear the cheerful unrestrained laughter

ringing out. Over all, the moon shone down
resplendent, and the soft wind, hurrying from
the south, was warm and pure, tasting of the sea
over which it had come so many many miles.

It was one of those times in her life when
her whole nature protested against unhappiness.
She understood but vaguely (we generally
do understand it vaguely) what would
give her happiness, but she craved for a higher
and a fuller life ; the perpetual repression, the
subjection of her very ideas to a stronger mind,
chafed her, and as she clasped her hands the
thought that at the moment comforted her was
that here she could have freedom — here it
would be more like home.

How long she stood there ! The lights went
out as the boats came in-shore, the sounds died
away, the feeling of being free seemed to show
her all at once how much she really feared her
brother, and then slowly rose before her once
more the thought of those papers.

This problem always filled her with pain,
the same dread of still further learning to distrust

her husband, the same irresolution came
over her, she turned round quickly and shut
the window, shutting away that painful remembrance
with a resolute determination not to
think of it just now, and jutting it away from
her with all her power. Even as she prayed
she was conscious of that something she would
not think of, as a secret sin may be covered up
and concealed in a corner of our mind (knowing
that it is seen) and passed over, while we
confess every other.

The morning broke exquisitely fine, light
clouds enhanced the sunshine. The girls, with
few regrets in their past lives, came to breakfast
with '' shining morning faces '' full of the
happiness of a delightful change and all the
pleasantness expectations of what the world held
for them there. Grace was radiant ; Margaret's
more composed face reflected her sister's expression.
They went out, hurrying Mrs.
Dorriman's slower movements with a naturalness
and impatience she did not dislike as
they seemed so near her ; and they looked

about them with the full enjoyment of girls
who had never seen anything of life, except in
the serried ranks of schoolgirl's fashion, and
who now stopped to look at every shop window
in the long street running round the bay,
alternating this close attention by watching
the boats, upon the other hand, glide to and
fro.

Mrs. Dorriman was very nearly as much taken
up as they were, and entered fully into their
please. She was not superior to the charms
of caps, which she wore with a mental protest,
having great quantities of hair, but which she
thought frightful, and which she was always
trying to improve upon.

They had just turned away from an array
of these necessary evils when she noticed a
lady coming towards them leaning on the arm
of a very tall young man. She was walking
very slowly, and evidently was using his arm
from no conventional sense, but as really
requiring it.

As she drew nearer she fixed her eyes inquiringly

on Mrs. Dorriman's face, made a
hurried pause — moved on — turned back, and
said in a voice of inquiry, '^ Annie Sandford''

'' Lady Lyons ! Yes — I was Annie Sandford
— I am Mrs. Dorriman."

And these ? " inquired Lady Lyons, turning
with languid grace to Grrace and Margaret.

Miss Eivers and her sister'' said Mrs.
Dorriman, who never knew exactly how to put
their connection with her brother concisely,
and determined to explain it at her leisure.

Oh," said Lady Lyons, evidently requiring
some further explanation now, at the present
moment.

^' My brother's wards — he is their guardian''

^^Oh!" again said Lady Lyons, but this
time in another manner; she thought she
understood.

Then she introduced her son, and he dropped
behind and talked to the girls. Lady Lyons
slipped her hand under Mrs. Dorriman's arm
and they walked on together.

Delightful," began young Lyons, turning

impartially to each sister in turn, '^ to find
unexpected acquaintances in this dull little
place."

'^ We only came last night, we do not think
it dull," they said in a breath. Grace adding,
for fear of his looking down upon her, ^' we
have not had time to find it dull."

^' What have you seen, so far ?" he asked ;
adding in a breath, 'not that there, is anything
really to see."

^^We have seen caps," said Grace

laughing.

He laughed with full understanding, and
quoted ^' The ruling passion "

Margaret felt annoyed, and could not quite
see why she should be annoyed. Still her innate
loyalty made her dislike even a covert
sneer, and looking at him full in the face she
said, * ^ What is there to see here that you
think interesting ? "

He laughed merrily, '' How severe you are,
very severe. Some people like the sea, others
go into raptures about the hills; it depends

upon whether you like nature or human nature.
There is no choice here, there is only the sea
and the hills, always the hills."

^' We think the place lovely," said Margaret,
and we have seen so little, only school and
then Renton. Ronton is such a smoky place."

'but Renton Place is a fine place," he rejoined.
^^ I have all my life heard of Mr.
Sandford as being a millionnaire."

Margaret laughed. '^ We used to think it
would be a fine place standing in a large park.
I believe we thought (Grace and I) that there
would even be deer there, but it is quite different
— a square house, a short avenue, and the
town just outside the gates."

Mr. Lyons looked puzzled. ^^ How strange ! "
he began, when Grace interrupted him. " All
very rich men have whims," she said, in a tone
quite unlike any Margaret had ever heard her
use before. ^' Mr. Sandford's whim is to live
close to Renton, where he coins money, I
believe."

*' It will be all the better for those who succeed

him," the young man said, looking more
attentively at Grace than he had done as yet.

^'Yes/' said Margaret, in her straightforward
way, ^' but that is a question that does
not interest us."

'' My dear Margaret, you should not make
these very positive assertions," said Grace ;
'^ you know nothing, really. My sister is very
young, Mr. Lyons, and young girls always
draw their own conclusions, often without anything
really to go upon."

Mr. Lyons laughingly said her youth was
very self-evident. show beautiful is youth!"
he exclaimed, with mock solemnity, and Mrs,
Dorriman was startled to hear them all on
such a familiar footing already.

She and her friend parted with enthusiasm.
Poor Lady Lyons really out of health, and
having many, many troubles to bear, was unfeignedly
pleased to meet Mrs. Dorriman again;
and Mrs. Dorriman, while conscious of much
short-coming in the matter of friendship, as
she could look back only upon acquaintanceship,

and nothing more, was much flattered to
find herself of so much importance to another.

At the dreary school where Mrs. Dorriman
had been educated; Lady Lyons, then an older,
stronger, and handsomer girl than herself, had
been.

Mrs. Dorriman could not remember that they
had been friends, but now the old familiarity
made them more than acquaintances, and they
met with that common ground of '^ old times "
which bridges over so much.

As they neared their hotel a man was standing
on the steps and lifted his hat. It was
Mr. Drayton.

CHAPTER X.

Nothing reconciles one to a place so much as
finding one's self not wholly left out in the cold
as regards acquaintances.

Beautiful scenery, except to some exceptional
souls, does not take the place of all
human companionship. The interchange of
thought with one's own species is an especial
necessity when the small home duties that
usually fill up time at home, are taken from
one.

Mrs. Dorriman, who paid great attention to
all the details of household matters, and had a
pleasant sense of ably fulfilling those duties,

would have felt stranded had she been left at
Lornbay without any one of her own age and
standing to talk to and nothing to do. Even
in the matter of caps it was a pleasure to find
an appreciative listener, and Lady Lyons, a
woman whose range of interest was limited to
the fluctuations of her own health and the
welfare of her son, could listen and give intelligent
attention.

Mrs. Dorriman was fulfilling her brother's
wish in remaining at the hotel. She was filled
with great doubts as to the goodness of the
food, and resisted all attempts to inveigle her
into preferring disguised dishes. She had a
horror of anything made up except when she
knew who had the task in hand ; and her occupation
was gone now she had to accept the
dinners as they were, and had nothing to do
with the ordering of them. She would have
infinitely preferred lodgings (which she had
never had), and had visions of wholly ideal
landladies, and great powers of interference.

Once her spirits became accustomed to the

scenes around her, she would have felt dull
missing her Inchbrae occupations, had it not
been for Lady Lyons. Lady Lyons had seen a
great deal more of the world than Mrs. Dorian
; but seeing the world does not always
imply fuller understanding. It is quite pos-able
to see a great deal and take in nothing.
Lady Lyons was a woman who had arranged
her ideas before she left the paternal nest, and,
partly from ill-health, partly from a limited
understanding, she was narrow-minded and
prejudiced, and everything was measured by
her own standard, and that was as small as it
could be.

Her character acted fatally u23on her son.
She had been left a widow young (with a
moderate fortune and this only son). People
went into ecstacies over the way in which she
gave up her life to her son, which meant that
he never went to school. He was educated
upon her lines — under her own eye. She was
desperately afraid of the wickedness of the
world, schools were full of iniquity, therefore

VOL. I. T

he never went to school. Companions he had
none. She was afraid of his knowing boys
with school experiences. Paul Lyons was content,
knowing nothing better. He grew up
narrow, selfish, and consequential, his world
bounded by his mother and himself, with no
developed intelligence, no nobility of thought,
no aims, no aspirations, thinking himself in all
ways superior to other men, and interested in
nothing outside his little molehill.

Then came one brief terrible experience.

Lady Lyons, worse than usual in health, was
ordered to a watering-place in the South of
France, and to winter in Nice.

She knew nothing of the world; and of
course Paul, who had never stood upon his
own feet anywhere, was equally ignorant.
Before he had been many days in the little
place he had been taken in hand by the worst
possible class of men ; and at Nice he got into
every conceivable scrape, lost money all round
at Monaco, was fleeced and put into all sorts
of disgraceful positions by those who told him

they would make a man of him ; and found
himself terribly in debt, ill, and threatened
with all sorts of penalties before he had been
six weeks in the place.

Lady Lyons, gently obtaining the air in a
Bath-chair, which, with a strong misgiving
about the means of locomotion, she encumbered
herself with, dreamed on in blissful ignorance.

She had given her son '-^ principles," she
thought, and she imagined that to be enough.

Paul was forced to get money from her, but
he told her very little ; indeed, the poor lady
always talked of Paul as having been robbed,
and in talking of his adventures spoke as
though he had been an unblemished knight
who had been robbed because his principles
were too good to allow him to win, and on
these occasions, though the young man would
colour, so much grace was left in him, he
would make a grimace when she was not
looking, expressive of her foolish innocence
and belief in him.

This beginning once made, he went down
2

hill rapidly. Once a young man reared in
ignorance of the world conceives sin to bea
sign of manliness, his fate is sealed.

Before he was utterly ruined, however, he
was pulled up short by a long and terrible
fever he was very long of recovering from.
Lady Lyons, who, though a feeble, narrow-minded
mother, was an affectionate one — the
strain of anxiety was too much for her, and
his recovery was followed by her having a
paralytic stroke.

When poor Lady Lyons recovered she was
feebler than before, and her son learnt, almost
for the first time, that her income was almost
entirely derived from a pension (her husband,
a K.C.B., and an Indian General, this was
secured to her) ; and that when she died the
little place in Cumberland, and a few thousand
pounds, upon which he had already given
heavy bonds, was all he had to look to.

It was too late to begin a profession ; he
knew too little to be able to pick up anything.
There was but one course open to him, and this

was to marry some one with money. He had
a tall figure, and was good-looking, though he
had a weak face, and he was convinced himself
that when he saw some one that fetched"
him, and that he was inclined to throw the
handkerchief to, it would be picked up with
enthusiasm. There are some men who think
in this way.

When Lady Lyons came to Lornbay, hoping
to derive benefit from its balmy air, Paul
Lyons of course came with her. His best
trait was his affection for his mother, though
he despised her ignorance of the world, and
was openly indignant with her having kept
him in leading-strings all his life, and not
having given him '^a chance with other fellows."


Lady Lyons used to argue feebly with him
about this. " See, my dear Paul, how much
nicer and better you are than other young
men," she would say, with a sigh. '' Schools
teach boys so much wickedness," and Paul

would shrug his shoulders, and say something
ambiguous which puzzled her.

This was the young man whom fate and
Mrs. Dorriman introduced to Grrace and Margaret
Eivers. Every day now there was some
walk undertaken, or some little expedition
made in which Paul Lyons joined.

Lady Lyons had that motherly feeling that
Paul, being her son, was such a safe and pleasant
companion for every one. She was quite
amused that Mrs. Dorriman considered it
necessary to act as chaperon. ^^It is only
Paul," she would say, with a little laugh.

'' But he is not ' only Paul ' to us ; he is a
young man and no relation. 1 do not want to
be ridiculous, but I have the responsibility,
and I want to do what is right."

This little speech about the responsibility
forged another link in the chain of events,
though Mrs. Dorriman spoke in innocence of
making any chain. It is not given to us
always to know when we are making history.

^'My dear Paul," said Lady Lyons, when

the mother and son were yawning through the
remains of an evening shortly afterwards, '^ I
think I have made a discovery; those two
girls, the Eivers girls, are either rich or going
to be very rich. That is why poor dear Mrs.
Dorriman makes such a fuss about them, and
herds them about so."

''I made that discovery long ago, mother,"
and Paul laughed. '^ The difficulty in my mind
is, are they going to be even, or is one going
to be heiress, and the other have a poor competency."


'' My dear Paul, you will have to be careful ;
how clever you are ! I never thought of that."
And this new idea made Lady Lyons hold her
knitting so carelessly that she dropped some
stitches, a fact (as usual) she never discovered
till she had done a good bit, when she was
intensely surprised to see a very large hole,
and could not imagine how it got there.

^'I don't know about being clever, mother,
the girls make no secret of it to me.^'

^' My dear Paul ! is it as fai* on as that ? "

and Lady Lyons looked up at him from her
sofa with a truly admiring maternal look.

'^I don't know what you mean by as far £S
that," said Paul, inserting his first finger with
immense difficulty between his tight master
collar and his much harassed throat; 'but
they talk in a way I cannot help understanding.
Old Sandford is coining money and
saving money, that means something like
wealth to his heirs or heiresses."

*rit does indeed," said Lady Lyons, with
sparkling eyes. ^' Paul, it is so strange, but
when you were quite a tiny baby your poor
old nurse used always to say you were born to
marry a rich lady. How often I laughed at
her — and now it will come true. My dear
boy ! "

I think you are going too far now, mother ;
1 feel a long way behind you. I cannot find
out anything about any definite promise. We
do not know anything about Mr. Sandford''

^^ I know a great deal about him," said Lady
Lyons, eagerly. '^ Mrs. Dorriman talks so much

about him ; not that perhaps she has really
told me much," she added, with a sense of
having held out false hopes ; Mrs. Dorriman^s
confidences about her brother being, she now
remembered, entirely about frivolous matters,
his fondness of old-fashioned dishes, and so on,
and his dislike to others.

'^ Of course, mother, I shall be careful not to
lead either of the young ladies to fancy I amin
earnest till 1 know something definitely

''Of course not, my dear," said Lady Lyons,
absently. Then suddenly a look of intelligence
came into her face. '' Oh ! my dear Paul, how
stupid I am. I remember quite distinctly now,
Mrs. Dorriman answered some remark I made
about Margaret's looks, and said, ' I admire
her very much, and I am sure my brother does,
he never takes his eyes off her. He says she
is the image of his wife, and like her in disposition
; that is why he is so devoted to her.'
I remember her words so well now ; but I can
easily talk about it again and get her to tell
me something more."

I think she told you enough," laughed her
son, and he walked up to the window humming
a tune, and his mother, after trying in
vain to get him to talk to her, soon grew
sleepy and went to bed.

Long after she left he paced the room ; then
he lit his candle and prepared to go to bed
also. There was a smile upon his face, which
lingered till he was fairly in bed. Then he
murmured something to himself, ^^I am glad it
is Margaret," he said, and turned round and
went to sleep.

In the meantime the girls were happy,
though Grace was a little restless. To go out
walking, to meet two or three people, to eat
and drink and sleep, was not enough for her ;
she wanted something more, she had a perfect
craving for excitement. This was not the life
she had dreamed of. But for Paul Lyons it
would be worse, but between her and Paul
had arisen a kind of perpetual give-and-take
in words which satisfied her since it occupied
all his time. Margaret was nowhere as

I

regarded this, and Grace was happy in having
the one cavalier within reach entirely at her
service.

Indeed, Margaret, with the unnecessary
frankness of a girl, piqued him by her open
and undisguised sentiments of not only indifference,
but dislike.

There is an instinct in unspoiled girlhood
which is often an unerring guide. Margaret
disliked Paul Lyons from the first ; the ready
change of tone, the slighting observations at
every moment about Mrs. Dorriman's tastes,
which Grrace thought so natural and so witty,
displeased her. She thought him worse than
he was. His manner to his mother was so
careless, and he so openly scoffed at her views,
that she did not give him credit for the hours
he spent beside her when she was ill, or for
the affection he had for her. She thought him
hateful. She had a high idea of what a man
should be, and her limited experience had
not been happy. One great relief was the
fact that, save and except that one meeting

on the steps of the hotel, Mr. Drayton remained
invisible. Indeed when they met in this
spasmodic and unpremeditated way lie was
waiting for a steamer to take him many miles
in another direction, and had gone, determined,
however, to return at the earliest
possible opportunity.

After the conversation with his mother, Paul
began to take much greater pains to recommend
himself to Margaret. He was like most
of us — attracted towards her by seeing her
what he would wish to be. She had so much of
what he lacked. She was quiet, reserved,
singularly fearless on those rare occasions of
asserting herself, and so openly disapproved
when he said or did anything giving the lie to
his professions, that he caught himself feeling
ashamed of himself. Under the gaze of her
pure and unclouded eyes he felt unworthy,
and she awoke in him the desire for something
better. He began to look back with disgust
and weariness on the portions of his life when
he had fancied he had seen life and lived ; a

better and truer manliness became visible to
him.

She was much younger, but so much wiser,
he thought ; he, by degrees, fell from profound
admiration into despair, and then rebounded
from despair to hope as she was kind to him,
and found himself hopelessly in love, before he
well knew what he was about.

The sincerity of his love was proved by its
real humility. What had he to offer this
young brave who had talked so glibly about
throwing his handkerchief ? When his mother
prattled to him of his perfections he felt
bitterly humiliated. The serene grace of
Margaret's manner, the limitless indifference
as to his presence or his coming or going, was
a terrible mortification to him, and he could
go nowhere for consolation. His mother's sole
idea of consolation he knew would be flattery,
and he had learned to hate it.

Margaret's intense devotion to her sister was
to him something beautiful and wonderful,
though he could not at times resist enlightening

her about her own superiority, only to regret
it since his doing so made Margaret cold to
him and angry with him.

'^ You make an idol of your sister," he said to
her, one day ; " you think her so beautiful. You
are much more fair, and far, far more lovely."

^' You should not say these things even tome,"
said Margaret, seriously j 'Though I know
you cannot help trying to flatter me — it is your
way of making conversation, I think."

'' I wish you only knew how thoroughly in
earnest I am," he said, passionately. '' You
cannot realize how much better I feel when
with you ; what a good influence you have
over me. This is not flattery."

'^ It sounds very much like it," said Margaret,
turning her grave young face towards
him, and allowing a little smile to light up her
eyes.

'' Now you are laughing at me," he said, ina
hurt tone. ^' How can I make you believe
me?"

^' Here comes your mother," said Margaret,

much too unconscious of his meaning to be in
the least embarrassed. " You have done your
best to amuse me and if you have failed it
must be my own fault — not yours."

She turned lightly from him and he watched
her with wrathful looks. Why did she always
turn his speeches aside, and treat him as of no
consequence ? What was it that caused him
so completely to fail with her ? Why was it
she was so different from other girls ?

Grace, for instance, accepted his speeches (in
which he was conscious of no meaning) as her
due, with evident satisfaction. She believed
everything he said to her, implicitly; and
when, as sometimes happened, he showed
something of his real strong devotion for Margaret
to appear, she accepted it as if it were an
indirect compliment to herself. Her vanity
was of the open and undisguised order, and so
completely enveloped her, that no sarcasm
could wound, no snub hurt her ; and he was
often sarcastic, and often unintentionally

snubbed her, and repented, till he saw that
both were equally lost upon her.

What a delightful thing it must be to live
encased in an armour of this kind ; to be impervious
to those friendly and unfriendly hits
the world at large thinks good for poor humanity.


Grace had not much acquaintance with the
world, but the few people she knew never
could touch her, and Mr. Paul Lyons was sometimes
astonished and sometimes amused to see
how she sailed through her life, delighting in
the idea that every one round shared her own
supreme belief in her superiority.

How hard he tried to get Margaret to
believe in him a little — forced to confess, time
after time, that he had failed. She was always
the same, sweet, cold, and utterly indifferent.

Lady Lyons' efforts to obtain information
from Mrs. Dorriman were equally failures in
another direction. What could she tell, being
herself in utter ignorance of her brother's
position ?

A woman who had had any experience of
the world must have seen through the mother's
transparent efforts to know something tangible.
Mrs. Dorriman did not, in the least, take it in.
She talked placidly enough upon the various
topics brought forward by her friend ; but she
was a perfectly truthful person ; she could not
invent, she had no imagination, and, therefore,
she could neither suppose anything or suggest
anything.

^' It must be such a comfort, mf dear Anne,
to have a very rich brother to fall back upon,"
said Lady Lyons to her one day, watching her
face a little eagerly as she spoke.

'^ I suppose so," said Mrs. Dorriman, dubiously,
reflecting that, when she was in need of
anything, it was always very hard to ask him
for it.

^' What an immense thing for those girls,
unless, indeed, he were to marry."

Mrs. Dorriman looked up, much puzzled by
her friend's tone.

^'I suppose it is a good thing for them," she

VOL I. u

said, slowly. ^' I never think my brother will
marry again ; he did so love his wife — poor
thing ! "

every nice, very proper," said Lady Lyons,
sand, for the girls' sake, let us hope this frame
of mind may continue. I am sure, my dear
Anne, for their sakes, you would throw your
influence against such a step. At his time of
life "

*^ He is not an old man," said Mrs. Dorian,
very hastily, '^ and, as for influence — my
dear, if my brother wished to marry any one I
should probably hear nothing about it till he
introduced his wife to me. When he makes
up his mind he acts," said Mrs. Dorriman,
thinking with a little shiver of her own marriage
and other things.

'' I am not sure that I think that quite nice
in a man," and Lady Lyons unclasped a
narrow bracelet that she wore, and clasped it
with great care ; anxious not to look too much
interested, and longing to know more, all the
same.

'^My brother is not dependent upon women's
society ; he never has been. His own mother
died young, and then he went away — I never
was much to him."

^^ Poor man ! But now, my dear Anne, you
should humanize him a little. If once he
grows accustomed to having you and the girls,
he will miss you all, and he will miss the girls
whenever they marry."

Mrs. Dorriman did not answer. Yes, he
would miss Margaret — he was anxious to keep
her.

Like all people with a motive, Lady Lyons
was very much afraid of her motive being discovered;
and she hesitated now, impelled by
her great desire to be able to guide her son,
and to find out, before it was too late, something
definite about '' those Rivers girls."

*' The girls are I suppose so well off that his
marrying or remaining unmarried can hardly
affect them," she said, taking up her knitting
again, and narrowly watching Mrs. Dorriman's

placid face.

u2

'^ Oil dear no !" said that poor little lady,
taken by surprise, *'my brother has helped them
very much — they really owe him a great deal."

'' Ah ! then he is sure to provide for them,"
said Lady Lyons, '' comfortably, especially for
Margaret''

Mrs. Dorriman looked up at her a little
startled. Had she said anything ?

^' We know nothing. He is fond of Mar-get.
He was fond " She stopped short, she

could not say that this move, originated by
Grace and followed up by Margaret, had hurt
and offended him. She knew he was offended,
but all that passed belonged to the sanctity of
home. She felt guilty in some way. Reticent
and reserved generally, how came she to have
allowed Lady Lyons to touch upon these matters
? With a little movement of her head and
shoulders, expressive of resolution, she faced
Lady Lyons and said calmly :

'^ I would prefer not discussing my brother's
intentions, which I do not know. I know really
nothing, and conjecture is useless."

We will not discuss his intentions," said
Lady Lyons, with a cheerfulness she did not
feel ; *^ a man who has shown himself so good
and so kind is not likely to throw these poor
girls penniless upon the world — I can safely
prophesy that Margaret will be his heiress."
She smiled at Mrs. Dorriman, who had no
answering smile to give back. She was startled
and vexed with herself. She had no right to
speak about her brother. She was confident
that his actions would be governed entirely by
the feeling of the moment. He liked Margaret
; if Margaret offended him, his liking
would not save her from the effects of his displeasure.
She was beginning to understand
him, to see that everything had to be subservient
to his will, that the greatest and strongest
trait in his character was his love of power.

After this conversation, Lady Lyons lost no
time in giving her son warning.

'' Nothing is settled," she said. " It may be
Margaret, but he is a younger man than I

thought, and he may marry ; my dear boy, you
must do nothing rashly."

He turned the subject with a laugh, in which
to speak the truth there was not much merriment.
His passion for Margaret was at any
rate sincere, and with his frequent opportunities
of meeting it became utterly impossible
for him to conceal his feelings from her.

Before she could stop him, he was hurriedly
telling her his story, looking in her face, which
showed vexation and regret, but no passion, no
love, no response to his devotion.

He read his answer there, and his despair
moved her. She was grieved and dismayed ;
to her he had always seemed so inconsequent,
such a trifler, how could she ever have believed
that he was capable of so strong a love?

But her great comfort through it all was the
very foundation he put himself upon ; he would
be guided in all things by her, she would be his
good genius, his conscience. He would always
do as she wished. She would be his guardian
angel ! This made refusal easier.

She shrank from his outstretched hands.

I cannot," she said. '' I cannot ! It is
impossible. 1 can never never give you the
love you ask."

*^ You think so now, Margaret — I may call
you Margaret — you are so young you do not
know ; will you not try, can you not let me
hope ? "

'^ Do you not see," she said, with the soft
rebuke in her eyes that an angel might have
had, '^ that love must come ? And there is
something else."

*^ Will you not tell me ? " he spoke in a
lower voice.

^a shall offend you."

You cannot offend me."

^'When 1 love — if I love — it must be a
man," she said, and her face glowed, ^^ a man
who does not require the guidance of a weak
girl, but who does what he has to do from a high
sense of right, who has high aim, who is above
me in all things."

^' This is folly ! " he exclaimed angrily ;
^^ you would ruin all my happiness from some
vague and ideal sense of right. You will
never meet with this ideal. All men will lookup
to you, beautiful Margaret. You will never
find one above you."

Perhaps not' she said, '' but then I will
never love."

They parted, she grieved but firm, and he
miserable and dispirited. He felt the truth of
much that she said, and was sufficiently in love
to think her just while he deemed her cruel.

^' Had my mother acted differently," he
thought, with bitterness, shad she made me playa
man's part ! '' and then a blush of shame rose to
his face. ^ ^ Why blame her ? Alas this worthy ? "
He strode off and sought in rapid motion to
still his disappointment. No one must ever
know, and Margaret was so young. At some
future time, perhaps.

Thus it happened that when poor Lady
Lyons gave him her well-meant caution his
laugh was full of bitterness.

She noticed, however, and took great credit
to herself for having so influenced him that her
son avoided Margaret ; and not in the least
understanding, simply thinking that he was
following her advice, she thought that his
avoidance was perhaps too marked. Motherlike
she must interfere a little, he should drawback
but not so pointedly as to make going
forward impossible ; supposing

^^ You are a dear, good boy," she said fondly
to him in the evening, when, with a book
before him and his gloomy eyes fixed on the
fire, he was sitting, dreading her observation
of his countenance ; '' you are always so good
in following your poor old mother's advice. I
see you leave the Rivers girls alone. You
must not overdo it, dear. If there is money —
if it would not be an imprudence it would not
be a bad thing, and then, you know, they
might resent your having given them quite up.

Could you not keep friends without ''

^^ Without what, mother?" he asked, in a
hoarse voice which startled her a little.

*^ I am hunting for a word, my dear," she
answered candidly; ^'I want a word to express
my meaning and that would not sound too
strong."

Paul laughed ironically.

shunt on, mother, and when you have
found the word you can tell me again."

^' It is so tiresome of you to laugh, but what
I want to say is, that there would be no harm
in your paying a certain amount of attention,
always providing you did not quite commit
yourself."

^'And if the girl got fond of me," asked
Paul, looking at her with glowing eyes, ^' what
then, if I had not committed myself ? "

^^My dear Paul! No well-brought-up girl
would think of getting fond of you, would be
in love with you, till you had said something.
At least," said Lady Lyons, drawing herself
up and looking very virtuous, ^4n my younger
days girls would have thought it very wrong.'

^^ Now it strikes me, mother, that this idea
of yours is very cold-blooded and cruel ; does

your love for me so blind you that you
cannot see this ? "

'slam cold-blooded and cruel! Oh, Paul,
what have 1 done," said the poor woman
helplessly, ^'that you should call me bad names
like this ? "

^' I called your idea cruel and it is cruel,"
said Paul hotly, ^'you do not think of what
you advise me to do. Heaven knows there is
nothing in me to win a good girl's love, but
you advise me to try and do so, and yet, while
in act I am saying I love you and begging her
to love me in return, I may feel free and be
free because in word I have said nothing. I
call it shameful, mother ! " He rose and
walked hurriedly up and down the room, then,
softening at the sight of her distress, he bent
down and kissed her. '' Forgive me if I seem
harsh and unkind, but I am very unhappy,
most miserable," and, sitting down again, he
laid his face upon his arms.

Poor Lady Lyons, living in her monotonous
round of small duties, never excited or allowing

any interest not touching her son to disturb
her, was singularly perplexed. Something
seemed, all at once, different. She and her
son had frequently had differences of opinion,
but he had, at those times, offended, and she
had complained, and she had always been so
glad to forgive him. Now suddenly he blamed
her ! She could not at once put herself into
the new position. Her feeble mind, bounded
entirely by her affection for her son, saw
nothing outside this horizon.

The reconciliation, when it came, was not
so entirely satisfactory to her feelings, for Paul
did not say he was sorry : on the contrary, he
argued with her and left her to feel the burden
of a defeat. She went to her room, and, as she
sipped the thin gruel which solaced her evening
hours, two or three tears trickled down her
face, and she was conscious of a new and a
very painful experience having suddenly confronted
her.

At the same hour Margaret and Grace were
standing watching the moonlit sea — a scene

which never palled upon Margaret, and which
from idleness Grace shared.

Paul Lyons's love and his appeal to Margaret
was not spoken of even to her sister. Poor
boy ! his affection must be sacred from careless
eyes.

As they watched the sea — suddenly into
the most vivid light came gliding a stately
yacht.

Her white sails were stretched to catch
every whisper of the light wind, and she
looked like some great lovely sea-bird, fluttering
to her nest.

The sisters had grown familiar with the
various ships and yachts that made shorter or
longer journeys and returned to their moorings
here, but this was something new.

They watched it take up its place with a
certain curiosity, watched the lights move,
heard the short sharp words of command ring
across the water, all unconscious of the new
interest that, in all ignorance, she was bringing
into their lives.

CHAPTER XL

Mr. Sandford returned from his journey,
knowing that when he arrived at home he
should find no one there. He had chosen that
time to leave home because it was the easiest
way of avoiding an explanation, which, he
half recognised to himself, must take the form
of an apology.

It was perfectly true that he thought his
sister took an exaggerated view of what had
passed, but that sense of right and wrong
which does not desert a man for many years
convicted him of blame. It was not possible
for any high-spirited girl to submit to the

footing he tried to put Grace upon, but he
had grown to dislike her, and he did not at all
mind having hurt her. The only question was
about Margaret.

Yes! Margaret was different. He thought
often of her expression, of the way in which
she roused herself to indignation when Grace
was in question ; and he regretted his want of
control on her account. Could things ever
come quite right between them again ?

There are some truths which make themselves
felt without being thought out, far less
spoken or put into words, and one truth was
present to him then. The moment the faintest
question of obligation creeps into close relationship
between one and another person, and that
the suspicion of gratitude becomes possible
that moment the character of the subsisting
love changes in a subtle way. Between
friend and friend it is different ; there often
one receives, the other gives ; but in the case
of near relations the expectation of a little
gratitude makes the difference between them.

Among sisters a sort of communism is one of
the uniting ties ; a common property, a right
to share, and one of the disappointments of
life is when from some outside influence or
some change in position, this close tie drifts
into a relative position of inequality.

Mr. Sand ford knew that in befriending and
adopting his wife's nieces, who were no kin
to him, he was acting in a kind, if not a
generous, way ; he had helped to educate
them and he had offered them a home. For
these things he deserved that they should
consider him and be grateful to him. But, on
the other hand, if he made the home intolerable
to them, he neutralized the gift and
spoiled its flavour.

Besides that fondness for power, which was
part of his very character, he conceived that
he had obtained by his spontaneous actions a
certain right over them, and he fully intended
exercising that right. Then, with all the
unreasonableness of a man who never could
see both sides of a question, he was thoroughly

disappointed that they did not show him more
affection. He wanted to be called '- Uncle,"
but he never said so, and the girls, to whom
he had always been an '^ unknown quantity,"
had never thought of so natural an appellation.


He liked to be feared ; he also wished to beloved,
especially by Margaret, towards whom
he had the strongest leaning.

As he went up to his own house, he missed
the calm, sweet gaze of his sister and the gay,
girlish voices ; the house struck him painfully,
it was so cheerless and so dull. He
was expected, but not so soon. In the
drawing - room was silence and chilliness ;
there was no fire in the grate, the rug was
rolled up, all looked as though almost there
had been a death ; and with a shiver and a
great sinking and depression he went to his
own room — that small room downstairs where
his plans were made, and his successes, and
his failures, faced and mastered.

Here a fire was slowly beginning to light,

VOL. I. X

and the room was cold. Anne would have
seen to this, he thought, forgetting that he had
returned some hours before he had intended,
finding that a person he wanted to see on
business, had gone South.

The room was scrupulously tidy, but so
cheerless ; he tried to remember how it had
all been long ago (he thought it was long
ago), before he had been ill, before his sister
Anne and the girls had come to him ; and he
remembered the dreary and desolate feeling of
illness creeping over him, and how he had then
suffered.

A pile of letters, neatly arranged, lay upon
his writing-table, and he looked them over.
There was one from his sister and he took it
up.

It was not very long, but it filled him with a
certain uneasiness. Mrs. Dorriman, always
anxious to fulfil her trust and to show herself
worthy of her responsibilities, sketched their
life for his benefit, and, without laying undue
stress upon the fact, let him know that another

person was ready to show this appreciation for
Margaret. And he so wanted Margaret to beat
home with him, at any rate for some few
years. She was so young, and, if her sister was
only disposed of, he thought she would grow
to like him.

Why was it always Margaret ?

Mrs. Dorriman also mentioned the glimpse
they had had of Mr. Drayton, the man he had
hoped so much from, who seemed so frank and
who was so reserved, and who had disappointed
and baffled him in so many ways.

He also wanted Margaret. He had been
there by accident. Of course he would go
back again, and Mr. Sandford rose and paced
the room, stopping to stir the fire violently, so
violently that the newly-lit sticks collapsed,
the coal smothered the flickering flame and
the fire went out.

With an exclamation of annoyance, Mr.
Sandford rang the bell. It was answered by
Jean, nerved for the occasion, who had been
watching for an opportunity to speak to him,

x2

much too greatly in awe of him to walk in
upon him without an opening.

She looked at the fire and understood what
had happened, went off for fresh sticks, laid
and new-lit the fire in a few seconds, and then
confronted him, and asked him if he wanted
anything else.

'^ When am I to have dinner ? " he asked,
abruptly.

^^ You can have something to eat now if you
please ; dinner can be any time after seven, '^
said Jean. '* You look cold, sir? '^

'^ The house is like an iceberg," he said ina
grumbling and complaining tone, ^' quite
enough to give one cold."

'' It's cheerless and dull, and cold enough,
sir, without any one, but just only a man,"
said Jean. '^ It's not much comfort to a man
being alone."

shave you heard from Mrs. Dorriman?"
he asked.

'soh, certainly, sir, she writes whiles to me."
^^ I have a letter, I suppose she is well ? "

^^ She does not complain of ill health ; not
that Mrs. Dorriman's given to complaining'
said Jean; ^^ she'll put up with a great deal, will
Mrs. Dorriman, sooner than sneak a word*'

Did she mean anything by this ? Mr. Sandford
glanced keenly at her, and thought it best
to say nothing.

^'What time do you wish to eat yom dinner,
sir ? " inquired Jean.

*^ Oh ! any time after seven," he answered,
and there was a certain weariness in his tone
that struck her.

She said no more, but looked at the fire, now
blazing, and went back to her domain.

It was still early in the afternoon, though
the want of clearness in the air all round the
place made it soon dark.

On a table, tidily set out and looking comfortable,
was Jean's tea, though the teapot, one
of those delightful brown earthenware affairs,
producing somehow such super excellent tea,
was on a hot plate in front of the fire.

Jean made some delicate toast, and arranged

a little tray ; she poured off the first cup, resolving
to give him of the best, and was soon
in his room again. Her great panacea for all
ill was in her hands, and Mr. Sandford, who
wanted comfort and warmth, and did not
understand how much he wanted both, was
sitting looking moodily at the fire, conscious
that life was altogether wrong with him somehow.


He received Jean's attention without much
apparent gratitude, but when she had gone he
did turn to it for consolation, and eat up all
the toast, as Jean noted afterwards with much
satisfaction.

Then he read his letters, feeling better ; and
one letter he held in his hand for a long while.

Mr. Sandford while known to be a rich man
was never talked of as a speculative man. He
was one of those people considered '' very safe
all round." No one took greater pains than he
did to inquire into securities, no one was
keener to detect a possible risk, and his investments,

his financial ability, all together gave
him a position he thoroughly valued.

But as in the most perfect characters there
is a flaw, and as in armour there is a vulnerable
place, in business relations there is sometimes
a weak point.

He was not large-minded enough ever to
own himself wrong. He could not bear to be
suspected of having made a mistake ; and he
sometimes found himself on the horns of a
dilemma, and found the horns were very
pointed.

He was so fond of power, of dictating and
directing, of leading with a hard and heavy
hand, that he sometimes took a wrong view of
a matter, and then sacrificed his own interests
rather than be proved wrong.

At this moment he was confronted by a
terrible mistake. He thought and thought till
he was tired how to face it and get out of it.
He could not disturb his other investments,
except at a ruinous loss. He had been so
certain, that he had locked up for a time the

floating capital he could generally fall back
upon, and he found himself for the very first
time almost stranded.

It was not only the possibility of heavy
loss, but the fact he knew so well, that, when
all was known, as it must be known — unless he
could manage to tide it all over — it would
shake his position all round.

Cold drops stood out upon his forehead as he
rapidly considered all these possibilities. He
saw, as in a long ^dsta, all he cared for, all he
had toiled for, swept away, and himself standing
there, without a friend, the laughing-stock
of the very people who now flattered him, and
tried to benefit by his superior understanding
on financial questions.

He seized a train-book. There was just one
chance — Mr. Drayton.

His sister had mentioned him, and he felt
quite certain that, as he had seen his nieces at
Lornbay, he would make his way there again.

He would go there and he would manage it.
There was no ruin to Mr. Drayton, and no loss

of position. Supposing lie lost — all the world
looked ii^Don him as an amiable fool as regarded
business matters. He had no position
to lose ; it would not be a fall such as his own
would be ; and there would be no loss. It was
only a temporary embarrassment.

He rang once more, and Jean saw that he
was now in quite his old peremptory, masterful
mood.

^' Let me have something to eat at once, and
tell Robert to pack my things again. Why he
does not answer my bell I cannot make out.
What is the use of him ? ''

'^ Not knowing you would be home so soon,
Robert went to do some messages ; but I expect
him in in a moment or two. Then I'll
not sheet your bed ? ''

She spoke in an inquiring tone ; her thrifty
soul anxious not to crumple the linen now airing,
if not required.

^^I have to go at once. I am going to Lorn-bay.
I suppose you have no message ? "

'^ I'll no trouble you with messages. I aye

use my pen when need be'' she said, very
calmly, and hurried off to get him that something
to eat which is never a great difficulty
in the hands of an experienced cook.

It may be said that she did write to her
mistress, as she always called Mrs. Dorian,
that very night, and gave a graphic description
of Mr. Sandford's arrival.

As frequently is the case, the pith of her
letter lay in the postscript.

'' You will be glad to hear, mem, that, though
he was most fashions and perspicuity, he was
no just very rampageous, and he drank his tea
and eat up all the toast," wrote Jean, who had
never before known him condescend to such
simple fare.

After all, Mr. Sandford did not start that
night. He reflected, that, as he was anxious,
he must not show his anxiety ; and also that
feeling of indisposition which he did not
recognise made him put off his journey till
the following day, a postponement which met
with Jean's fullest approval. Why people

should spend their nights, rumbling and
tumbling along, when they might be in their
beds, was one of the most surprising things in
life to her, and she thought it " wise like " not
to do it.

But this postponement made one difference,
instead of bursting upon them all as a surprise,
Mr. Sandford was expected. The trio were
alone, and no one, so far as he could ascertain,
was staying there interesting to him.

Mrs. Dorriman was glad he had come. She
was always thankful to share any responsibility
; and she thought him looking ill —
which fact always softened her towards him.

Her feeling for him had, indeed, much
changed, and she never thought bitterly of his
old misdoings towards her. Time, 'which
softens a grief, heals many a difference ; and,
though she always had the consciousness of
having been hardly used, she constantly found
herself making allowances for him, and compassion
was beginning to tone down all her
sources of irritation against him.

Jean's letter, posted over-night, arrived just
after breakfast ; the girls were dismayed ; they
had parted from him with angry feelings, and
now, how were they to meet ? Margaret,
calling Grace in vain to accompany her, set
off for a long expedition among the lower hills
that crowned the heights behind Lornbay.
From high up she obtained a larger view, and,
with Tennyson in her hands, with whom she
spent all her happiest moments, she prepared
to wander far, not sorry to be alone, and feeling
secure from the companionship of Mr. Paul
Lyons or of any of those common-place, if
friendly, women who had by degrees gathered
round Mrs. Dorriman and who tried Margaret's
patience sorely.

Would a day ever come to her, she often
thought with girlish impatience, when the
interests of life would be narrowed to a new
pattern in cross-stitch or crewel-work, and to
the want of taste in some persons' way of
setting a bow on the side of a cap. These
trivial matters lay so far outside anything that

contained possible interest to her, that she
despised the people who evidently considered
them of consequence.

Margaret also was beginning to make
another discovery, and one that filled her with
pain and even terror. She had too candid a
mind not to own a truth to herself, however
unwillingly, and the truth which frightened
her and dismayed her was the wide difference
existing between her sister and herself. She
had all her life looked up to Grace, admired
her and worshipped her. Every day now
showed her that Grace had, in all ways, a
lower standard than she had. She was contented
to spend her time in perfect and complete
idleness ; she would no longer even talk ujDon
matters of any importance with her sister.
All those questions of religious thought which
crowd upon a young girl when her mind
begins to draw its own conclusions and she
shakes off those boundaries and lines which
have, up till then, been the accepted guides
for all her belief, were too evidently distasteful

to Grace to be persisted in. We feel it as
irreverent to allow a careless hand to touch
our holiest and highest thoughts as we do if a
scoffer enters a church with us. Poor Margaret,
often perplexed, asking herself questions
that have always baffled the wisest men, blamed
her own want of perception for not understanding.
She had a high ideal, a desire for
the best, and she was often miserable because
of a supposed short-coming of a faith that was
not unwavering. To turn to Grrace, who was,
she thought, so far her superior in joint of
cleverness, would have been such an endless
comfort to her.

But it was not only in these deeper things
that the sisters differed. Grace, full of vanity,
was insatiable in her appetite for applause.
She took endless trouble to obtain attention
conceiving attention invariably to mean admiration.
Not all Margaret's love for her
could conceal the fact from her widely opening
eyes, and to the higher character of the severe
young sister this intense vanity was almost a

worse fault than one perhaps of a stronger
type. It seemed to her to be so absolutely
beneath the dignity of a woman, and of such
a woman as Grrace.

In the room they shared together every
handle was brought to bear upon the glass, and
the time Grace took to curl and crimp and
crisp her hair left Margaret none. Luckily, by
chance, her long, thick hair was simply
smoothed back and twisted in a coil that
required but a few moments to arrange.

Those moments, during which Margaret's
grave young eyes were fixed wonderingly
upon her sister, were full of grief to her. Then
Grace's habit of laughing off a question, her
little transparent caprices and deceits, filled
the younger sister with apprehension. Imaginative
as she was, the truth exaggerated itself
to her inexperienced eyes, and she saw her
sister drifting from her and slipping each day
down to a lower level, while she stood by
helpless. These thoughts filled her mind, to
the exclusion of other things ; she tried to

read, she tried to enjoy the great stretch of
water, the faint, blue hills with the varying
lights, but her heart was heavy, and she sat
down at the foot of a sharp and rocky gorge
and gave herself up to melancholy reflections.

Then something happened — what, she never
rightly knew — but there was a sudden shout,
a rushing and falling of the rock under which
she was sitting, and a figure vainly endeavouring
to protect itself came crashing down and
lay helpless a few yards from where, with the
instinct of self-preservation, Margaret had
sprung. For one second she stood breathless,
trembling all over with the sudden shock and
fright, then she rallied and went quickly up to
the prostrate form, lying so still that she was
afraid death would confront her.

She took courage, and moved the checked
deer-stalker's cap that had fallen over the face,
and she saw a man, not very young, his eyes
closed and his teeth clenched, a look of agony
impressed upon his features.

With the necessity for help came strength ;

she flew down to the burn and dipped her
handkerchief in water, bathed his mouth and
eyes and forehead, and then, seeing how he
lay, all of a heap, she gently moved him so
that he might breathe more easily, then she
knelt and prayed with all her heart. It
seemed long before he showed any signs of
life, and the poor child was getting very
nervous and very anxious ; she could not
leave him alone there, she thought, till she
knew how it would be ; and she went on
dabbing his face and hands, with a very faint
hope of his responding to her efforts. But at
last life, that had been so nearly shaken
out from the great massive frame, began to
tingle once more through his veins, and, after
a long shuddering sigh and a smothered exclamation
of pain, his eyes opened and stared
back at hers in complete bewilderment. He
had heard her praying.

^'I saw you fall; there was no one else;
are you very much hurt ? " said Margaret,
anxiously, all in one breath.

VOL. I. Y

*^ I am afraid I am," he answered, and the
deep tones of his voice were full of suppressed
pain.

^' Can you move at all ? Should you be
afraid of being left ? Shall I go for help ? "

He struggled for self-command ; it was
evident the pain was almost overmastering
him, and Margaret's heart was so full of
compassion she had no longer room for
nervousness. She was touched beyond
measure when she noticed that in the midst
of all his suffering he thought of her, and that
he was trying to suppress all signs of what he
was enduring. He could not speak for a
moment or two, then he said hurriedly,

^^ My men are looking out for me. If you
can, tie a handkerchief to my stick. They
were to pick me up here." In a moment or
two he said, " If you do not mind staying —
till — they come — " and to poor Margaret's
dismay he went off again into insensibility.

She acted as he had told her and had the
comfort of seeing a boat come off. She did

not notice from which ship it came, but she
hurried back to his side, and renewed her
efforts with her dripping pocket-handkerchief.

Then, when the men were landing, she
went down to the shore towards them and
told them there had been an accident; and,
in a moment or two, the unfortunate hero of
the adventure was surrounded by strong arms,
and evidently anxious helpers, and Margaret
glided away. She felt very tired as she
walked homewards. Anxiety is always a
much greater fatigue than physical exertion,
and she drooped as she reached the hotel.
Then she dragged herself upstairs and was
pleased to find herself alone with Mrs. Dorian.


Mrs. Dorriman was placidly engaged in
doing up her accounts, and was satisfied to
find that her brother, if he wished to do so,
might inspect them without being able to find
fault. But Mr. Sandford was not at all either
stingy or exacting, as far as money matters
went; and Mrs. Dorriman, as she wrote out

y2

the conclusion, could not help giving a sigh
when she thought how entirely the method
and neatness of it all was thrown away, since
no other eye would probably ever see this well-kept
book save her own.

She looked up to see Margaret — pale to her
lips — sink wearily into a chair ; and she was
up and alarmed directly.

*san accident," murmured poor Margaret.
'^ Oh, no, not to me," she went on as Mrs.
Dorrirnan's alarm increased ; and then the
fright and fatigue and all else broke her down,
and she cried ; and the poor bewildered
woman was even more at her wit's end than
usual.

Margaret could not go down to luncheon ;
as usual with her whenever unduly excited,
her head throbbed violently, but she refused
to go to bed. ^' I have had no accident, I
am not hurt," she said, laughing a little hysterically,
^* but I thought he had been killed.
It was so dreadful."

Mrs. Dorriman petted her, and made her

have some soup, and left her on the sofa,
while she went to find Grace and go downstairs.


Later on, there was a commotion downstairs,
a bustle as of a new arrival. Margaret
heard it without connecting it with her
adventure. That apathetic feeling of languor
which generally succeeds excitement had come
over her, and she lay quiet, not sleeping, not
even thinking, all her senses lulled into
absolute repose. Into this came Grrace, excited,
bubbling over with news.

'' Margaret ! " she exclaimed, rushing up to
her sister's side, and speaking in her high
clear treble voice, ^' a poor man, the owner of
that lovely yacht we saw come in last night,
has been nearly smashed to pieces, and they
have brought him here. His name is Sir
Albert Gerald, and I saw him carried in. He
is wonderfully handsome, and it was quite
romantic to see him on his boat-cushions all
carefully arranged, and carried shoulder-high
by his boatmen."

^^ I know," said Margaret, putting lier hand
up to her aching head '' I saw him fall, Grace.
He fell beside me, where I was sitting, and I
thought he was killed''

^^ You saw him fall ! Margaret, what an
adventure, and did he speak to you ? Did he
see you ? Who was there ? ''

^^His boat's crew brought him home, you
said ? " and Margaret, who could not enter
into all the particulars, just turned wearily over
as though anxious to be left alone.

And Grace turned away. Margaret had
seen him fall, but this was all, she thought.

That evening brought Mr. Sandford to Lorn-bay.
Grace was the first to greet him, and any
emotion that might have marked the meeting
was entirely swept away by her coolness.

Margaret felt more, but she was struck by
a look of worry and ill health visible in his
face, and she was sorry for him, and her sorrow
gave her manner a kindness he was not prepared
for. He did not trouble them much
with his society, but went off to discover when

Mr. Drayton was likely to arrive ; an unexpected
soo thness had characterized his meeting
with the girls, for which he felt duly
thankful.

There were numbers of letters awaiting Mr.
Drayton's arrival. Several in the well-known
hand of his manager, the man who so steadily
opposed all schemes, such as the very one Mr.
Sandford was there to press upon him.

Not unnaturally, the landlord, and every one
else connected with the place, was full of the
terrible accident which had brought Sir Albert
Gerald to the hotel, and it was also feared to
his grave, for he was very ill. One arm was
broken in two places, and he had sustained, it
was feared, some internal injuries, which rendered
his recovery problematical.

Mr. Sandford heard without more than a
passing interest the story of the accident, told
with that minute attention to unimportant
details, that characterises a narration in the
hands of those to whom all strange events
appear in an exaggerated form. He did not

know this man's name, though one day he was
destined to know it well. He was sorry for
him and that was all.

The person who felt Mr. Sandford's arrival
to be of very real importance was Lady Lyons
next to her, her son. Lady Lyons, who always
saw less or considerably more in every action
which touched her in any way, and of course
her son, came to a conclusion immediately.

^' This I consider good' she said to the
amazed young man, continuing a thought aloud
as she sometimes did, and thereby somewhat
bewildering him.

^' Mother ! What do you consider good ? "

^Mr. Sandford's arrival ; is it possible, my dear
Paul, you do not understand the full importance
of this. Have you not realized what this means?"

^^ Certainly not."

'' Men are so dreadfully dense," said the
mother, with a gesture of impatience.

Will you enlighten me, since I am only a
man and so dense." He spoke in a tone of
good-humoured banter.

'^ My dear Paul," she began, looking at him
with much affection, '' you have been a dear
good son, a dutiful son, and in this instance I
am sure a wise one — you have kept away from
Margaret Rivers till something was known.
Do you not see now in the arrival of Mr. Sandford
an anxiety to see — not his nieces, from whom
he parted not so long ago — but you, Paul, you !
He has probably heard something from Mrs.
Dorriman (in that quarter, my boy, I have not
left a stone unturned), and he may have heard
that Margaret is inclined to respond. Eh!
Paul ? You see therefore he comes himself to
know if you are worthy!"

"My poor, dear mother," said Paul, ''if men
are dense as you say, still the imagination of
women is quite beyond belief."

"Imagination founded on fact, my dear Paul."

Mother," he began, in a tone of which she
could not comprehend the bitterness, " will
it wound you to know that in this matter I was
not so dutiful a son ? Forgive me, but love
was stronger than duty. I tried hard to win

Margaret, I pleaded with her, she must have
seen that I was in earnest, she must have known

I loved her She refused me, mother,

refused me as one beneath her, and she was
right, she said I was a boy and a trifler. I
have told you, as you were building false
hopes, but I cannot speak of it again."

He turned away, and his mother sat upright
in her great astonishment. All mortification
at his not having after all taken her advice was
forgotten in her supreme surprise at her son's
having actually been refused.

Naturally her motherly view of the question
made this strange to her; she was so astounded
that she lost the power of speech for the
moment and gave vent to little helpless exclamations
which required no answer.

Then abruptly he left her, feeling too deeply
to bear to hear her discuss it. At this moment
Mr. Drayton was returning to Lornbay, trusting
to find Margaret still there, and not anticipating
the arrival of Mr. Sandford, or, in short, any
change in their arrangements.

It was natural that Margaret should ask,
from day to day, how the poor wounded man
was getting on. In a life in which no great
incidents had occmTed, such an adventure, in
itself, was full of intense and painful interest,
but she always remembered the wonderful
self-command and the thought of her ; at such
a moment, the pain must have been frightful,
and yet how he had tried to suppress all outward
signs of it. The expression in his dark
eyes haunted her ; such a glimpse of the man's
real nature had been given her. Should they
ever meet again ? She thought not ; already
something was said about their going home,
and perhaps they might go before he was well.
She was utterly unconscious, upon her side,
of having done anything worthy of thanks, and
she was not quite sure whether, if they met,
that short but agonized hour would constitute
acquaintanceship.

After fluctuating between life and death,
however, for many weary hours, Sir Albert
Gerald rallied. He was thirty-two, in the very

prime of his youth and strength ; unfavourable
symptoms disappeared one by one, and he
began to rally. His first thought, as he was
returning to full consciousness, and that all his
pain and agony were gradually yielding to his
strong powers of recovery, was of the girl, who,
looking like a pitying angel, had bravely sat
alone with him, and had, by her presence of
mind, saved him ; and he had seen her tears.
Had she not been there There would have
been a late search; his men might have thought
it strange that his expected signal was not made
and might have looked for him. Then he
told himself it would have been too late.
He lay wondering who she was, where she
lived, and how he could ever thank her, not
knowing her name, when one day his servant
was arranging his books, and he asked him to
put one or two beside him, he might feel
inclined to read. He lay still, however;
terribly weakened as he was, he dreaded
moving. He was so bruised and so battered
it seemed impossible he should ever stride

across the hills and follow any of his old
occupations again. His eye dwelt idly on the
binding of the books before him, and he
wondered if it would bring back suffering if
he looked into one.

Thoughts become monotonous when they
are full of a certain fear ; then, with that quick
recognition of small facts that often accompanies
great prostration of strength, he saw a
strange book lying amongst his own. With
great caution and not without some pain he
drew the book towards him, and, with all the
difficulty of a man accustomed to use his right
hand, now so useless, he opened it. " Tennyson!"
he said softly to himself; then he looked
at the fly-leaf and saw written, in an unformed
girlish sprawl, Grace Rivers. '' How did that
book get among mine ? " he thought, perplexed
and puzzled. The attentive John came in
again and his master asked him the question.

It was lying by you when you fell, Sir
Albert. I did not know it was not yours."

^' Ah, I see," said his master, pleased by the

conviction that lie now knew the name of the
girl who lived in his memory so distinctly.
A little later he called his servant to him
and complained of the dulness he felt lying
there.

^' Perhaps the landlord would come and talk
to me ; that would be better than nothing."

'' Yes, Sir Albert."

^^ Unless he is busy. I have nothing particular
to say to him. You will explain this
to him''

'' Yes, Sir Albert."

^' Mind you make it clear," continued the
sick man, but John was out of hearing.

Time seemed to pass more slowly now a
certain expectancy weighted its wings, but Sir
Albert ruled his spirit in patience. It was
very pleasant to have a clue ; never had he
felt so much interested in a young lady before.
This was natural ; he had never required such
assistance before. It was altogether exceptional.
There was quite the foundation of a
romance, supposing him to be younger than he

was and not so sensible. A younger and more
susceptible man might have fallen in love there
and then. And then he laughed a little. That
was indeed absurd !

END OF VOL. I.

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

I Wm,?m,'I^ °'' 'Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 041674505

L I B R. A R. Y

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of Ill Noir

C427tY,

^ fowl.

BY THE

HON. MRS. HENRY W. CHETWYND,

Author OF

LIFE IN A GERMAN VILLAGE," " THE DUTCH COUSIN,"

"A MARCH VIOLET," "BEES AND BUTTERFLIES,"

ETC., ETC.

m THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. n.

LONDON: CHAPMAN and HALL

Limited



PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

26, PARLIAMENT STREET.

MRS. Dorian.

Chapter I.

Man proposes . . . and wives sometimes interfere.


John went with the single and innocent
object of conveying his masters wishes to Mr.
Macrae. He found, however, that there were
two sides to this as to all other questions.

Mr. Macrae was a portly, good-humoured
man, who suffered from some perplexity as to
the reason why his waistcoats had taken to
hitching themselves up in front ; waistcoats
being, he supposed, made on different principles
in these days. When he was younger,

VOL. II. B

O

waistcoats had not this evil habit. The cut
probably was cliJffcrent. His first action on
being summoned was to pull down his waistcoat,
his next to brush some imaginary crumbs
off his coat-sleeves, and then to hold his head
up and march off. But fate — and his wife —
interposed. Mrs. Macrae was a slight woman,
who was kindly and good-natured, but who
had a keen eye to her own interests, and, who
being more able than her husband to see those
two sides of a question, had a slight contempt
for his intellectual powers.

^^ If Sir Albert wants a little conversation I'll
go myself," she said, with alacrity ; " especially
as Mr. Macrae cannot leave the bar at the
busiest time of the day."

'' But you'll do at the bar as well as myself,"
said her husband, unguardedly, preparing to
go and yet not quite able to assert himself so
decidedly.

^^ As well as yourself!" she returned, with
strong contempt. " I'll do as well and better
than you in both ways. Sir Albert probably

wishes to speak about this diet, and what do
you know about that ? "

Mr. Macrae looked at John, who said,
blandly, '^ I am sure master would be glad to
see you, Mrs. Macrae, but I was to be sure
and say, not if you was busy."

Mr. Macrae let things alone. He was quite
able to perceive the great inconsistency of his
wife's proceedings. How often did she not
say to him that he was of no use, and she
would be better without him, and yet now he
could not be spared from the bar for even a
few moments. He contented himself, however,
by muttering a good deal of treason against
the sex generally, and his wife in particular ;
and then he turned to the contemplation of the
street and pier ; watched the gambols of two
dogs, and the unfading of a cart, and allowed
his waistcoat to wrinkle up undisturbed.

John explained the situation in a hurried
speech to his master, and, having left him comfortably
disposed of for the time, went out
also on the pier to look about him.

B 2

Mrs. Macrae looked at the young man with
all the interest in him natural to her as his
hostess, and a woman full of kindly sympathies.
His strong constitution was pulling
him through, but there was weakness and
helplessness enough left, to appeal to all the
kindest part of her nature.

^' I am afraid I give a great deal of trouble,
Mrs. Macrae," he began, in soft low rich tones
tones that would go far in his favour anywhere,
she thought.

Oh, never think of the trouble, sir. Weare
paid for taking trouble," she answered,
hastily, an innate refinement making her
anxious to lessen his sense of obligation.

^^ Ah ! but you are not paid for taking it
cheerfully. My servant says every one has
been so kind and ready to help. You must
allow me to feel obliged, and let me thank
you."

^' I am sure you are welcome, sir. How did
it happen ? it was a terrible accident, If it does

not tire sou to talk about it all, I should like
to know."

^' I am tired of silence," he said, pleasantly,
^' but if you would sit down, Mrs. Macrae, it
would be very good of you. Seeing you stand
gives me a feeling of fatigue."

Mrs. Macrae obeyed and drew a chair near,
upon which she placed herself in a most uncomfortable
attitude.

'^ There is little to tell," he said, after a
moment's pause. '' I went too near the edge
of a disused quarry, I think, or the rains had
undermined the ground I was on ; at any rate,
I took a step too near a part standing treacherously
forward, and fell a good height, taking
a quantity of loose stones and gravel with me.
Then I remember nothing else."

And I dare say you lay a long time before
your man found sou, sir. AVell, it might have
been worse, they might not have found you
so soon''

'' Oh, a young lady saw me first, and she
got assistance."

A young lady ! Mrs. Macrae pricked up
her ears at this. Why, it was going to be a
romance, she thought. ^^ A young lady ! " she
said, aloud ; ^^ there are none so many here,
sir. Do you know her name, sir ; was it one
you know ? ''

'^ I think I know her name," he answered,
and he opened the little book lying beside
him, and held it towards her. ^^ Do you know
her ? where does she live ? "

'' Grace Rivers ! '' exclaimed Mrs. Macrae.
^^Wliy, those young ladies have been living
here for some weeks ; they are here nov with
their aunt; they are just going away. And
how did you get that book ? "

'^ She left it I suppose when she ran to call
for help. My servant found it, and thought
it was mine, and he brought it here."

^^ Well, it is a providential thing some one
was by, you might have been killed, sir, and
died with no one there. Miss Grace Rivers.
Yes, yes. It is her, though Miss Margaret's
the one that is aye rambling."

'^ When I am a little better I should like to
see Miss Grace Rivers," said Sir Albert, with
some hesitation, ^^ to thank her ; do you know
where she lives ? "

^^ Indeed, I do not, sir, when she is at home;
but she and her sister are here just now.'^

'^ Here ! " he exclaimed. ''Do you mean
in this house ? ''

Yes, here, sir, and there's no need to excite
yourself ; they are here with a quiet nice lady,
not a real aunt, but some way kin to them,
and they're all going away soon''

'' Oh, they are going away ? " and Sir Albert
felt unaccountably disappointed.

'' Well, sir, they came for a few weeks, and
they liked the place and liked the cooking and
felt comfortable, and they stayed on."

'' I am sure I do not wonder," said Sir
Albert, politely, ''if you make them as comfortable
as you do me."

"Hoot, sir, and you that has aye slops.
How can ye tell ? " and Mrs. Macrae laughed

comfortably ; she was beginning to feel at her
ease with him.

'^ Ah, slops — are slops," he said, with a little
grimace, '^ but there is a right and a wrong
way of sending them up. I still remember
being ill at school, and the greasy broth and
cold gruel — cold gruel ! "

"' And may be a deal paid for you there ;
well, I do not believe in schools for my part."

"Now your beef tea is good, though I am
getting tired of it ; and has the doctor never
spoken to you about my moving ? I am
joining to get out."

^^ Ech, sir, and you all smashed — you are
wonderful, and so cheerful."

^^ Am I cheerful? I am afraid you see your
own reflection, Mrs. Macrae. I feel dull
enough now I am out of pain. But I am very
thankful'' he added, in a more serious tone.

^^ I am sure, sir, we are all thankful too. It
would have been a sir pity if you had come
here a corpse, and that is bad for an hotel at
any time too."

At that moment John entered and announced
the doctor.

^' I am earlier than usual , Sir Albert. I have
to go some way off, but I wanted to see you
first."

'^ Thanks ! I am getting well fast."

^^ And wishing to go out," put in Mrs.
Macrae, hoping to see the doctor's face express
disapprobation and corroborate her oldfashioned
idea of fresh air being bad for all cases of sickness.


^^ Of course, as soon as the moving does not
pain you, you have severe bruises to recover
from still — but fresh air. Yes, get out as soon
as you can — lying here your spirits may go
down. Yes, get out as soon as ever you can."

Sir Albert gave a triumphant smile to Mrs.
Macrae, who rose and left them, much exercised
in her mind about these new-fangled
ways.

Thus it happened that soon a bath-chair
was conveying Sir Albert along the level road

by the sea, and that Mrs. Dorriman and Grace
thus met him.

'^ Miss Grace Rivers and her aunt, Sir
Albert," said John, hurriedly, as he saw them
coming, and he was sent by his master to beg
them to come and Speak to him.

When they came nearer Sir Albert was
conscious of a great and overwhelming disappointment.
He must have dreamed of the
expression in the girl's face, even the colour of
her eyes. This face was like and yet unlike,
and the cold steel-blue eyes, and the little self-satisfied
expression, repelled him and made his
proffered thanks an effort, all the time hating
himself for being so ungrateful.

He apologised to Mrs. Dorriman for having
ventured to detain her, but he was so anxious
to express to Miss Rivers, Miss Grace Rivers,
all he felt.

'' Oh ! I had nothing to do with it. It was
my sister, it was Margaret," Grace said hurriedly.


^' Yes," said Mrs. Dorriman, ^^ poor Margaret

came home quite ill from the fright and
shock."

^' I'll — I am so grieved," began Sir Albert.

'' She is all right now," said Grace, quickly.
^^ After all she was not able to help you."

'' You do not know how she helped me,'
said Sir Albert, quietly. ^' But for her courage
in staying and bathing my face — even moving
me — I might have died. I do hope I shall
have an opportunity of seeing her and expressing
my thanks in person."

'^ Of course you shall," said Grace abruptly,
impatient of the subject, one in which she
played no part.

Mrs. Dorriman felt interested in the helpless
figure, and the pallor which spoke of much
suffering — she would fain have lingered, but
Grace hurried her on.

'^ I am so disappointed," exclaimed the
young lady, ^' Sir Albert is grave, and not at
all good-looking, so pale and cadaverous."

^^ It is not wonderful, having had such a
terrible accident, my dear. I think he has

such a fine face. I am sure this eyes are wonderful,
there is patience written on his face."

*rand he is grateful to Margaret, which is
the only reason you are interested in him,"
said Grace, pettishly. *' It is always Margaret."


Mrs. Dorriman said no more. When Grace
took this tone she exercised a gift she possessed
^a gift of greatest value — the golden gift of
silence.

It was not many days after this, Margaret,
who had been disturbed and anxious because
of a scene between Mr. Sandford and Grace,
had gone for the relief of quiet and fresh air
along the sea side. All around her lay the
hush of evening when all have rest. The sun
was low and lighted up the western sky with a
soft glow of golden colour, showing himself
only behind high-fleeting clouds which but
partly only veiled his glory. Every ripple on
the sea caught a quivering touch of light, all
the great hills took softening shadows, all inequalities
seemed brought into one harmonious

whole, as a fine soul will sometimes blend inconsistencies
till they cease to strike one as
incongruous. The light fell softly upon Margaret's
face, and the little ruffle upon her
brow, the sign of disturbance, was smoothed
out.

In the midst of such a scene she felt that
her irritation had been unworthy — how could
she allow herself to feel things so much ? She
tried fco set before herself Mr. Sandford's deeds
of kindness, but she failed. She had a strong
sense of justice, and it was unjust to heap
obligations upon them upon the one hand, and
make those obligations hateful on the other.
What could she do to help Grace ? How act
so that she might in some way be saved from
a life she hated, and out of which no good
came to her.

She had another and a deeper trouble to
bear. Mr. Sandford had never wished her to
be particularly friendly, or even civil, to Mr.
Drayton ; but that uncongenial man had arrived
that day, and Mr. Sandford had changed in

his views. He had insisted upon Margaret's
remaining to talk, and had shown great temper
when she did so with evident reluctance ; and
this was a terrible trouble to her.

Was there nothing that she and Grace
could do alone ? was there no way of making a
little home for themselves ? She possessed no
accomplishments, and though Grace was so
very clever, and every one admired her performances,
they had often lately tried selling
something, and had failed.

If she went out as a governess she would not
help Grace. They had so little, what could
they do ? What could she do ? She imagined
that it was the life that was hurting Grace,
and that more favourable circumstances would
raise her tone of mind, and this made all harder
to bear.

She often thought with a real pang that
Grace had thought her marriage to Mr. Drayton
possible. Then she blamed herself for
attaching too much importance to what was
said in a moment of depression and misery.

She was losing herself in these thoughts,
conceived of a passionate longing for something
to help her, praying, as she often did, to
be shown her way, and for patience, and, with
her eyes fixed upon the light and her thoughts
with God, she went on her way, and so Sir
Albert Gerald met her once again.

Lying back in his bath chair, he had been
looking at the soft loveliness around him,
thinking that such a sunset had more poetry
and more beauty than the blaze of gold and
crimson which, as a rule, presented itself when
the sunset was not softened and veiled by
clouds ; and sharply defined against the evening
sky he had seen a figure full of quiet
grace, and before she drew near he recognised
her, and thrilled with the recollection of the
prayer she had breathed beside him.

There was no consciousness or shyness in
her manner. She was glad to see him better,
glad to meet him, and she put her hand into
his outstretched towards her, with a feeling of
relief and gladness. It would have been

terrible had this powerful frame, this youth
and strength, been crushed. His eyes rested
upon her with intense satisfaction, he noted
the straightforward open gaze, and the lovely
smile that brought colour into her face. He
had not dreamed it — she was lovely !

^'I am so glad to see you out. You will
soon get well'' she said, and he thought her
voice was as lovely as her face.

'you must let me thank you'' he said
earnestly. '^ You were so good and so brave.
Most girls would have been too much frightened
to help. Some would have fainted."

^'1 think not," she said, gravely, reddening
a little under his earnest gaze. '' I was too
anxious to be of use to feel afraid. I think
others would also have been anxious — others
might have done more''

''Oh, no! "he said; "I am glad to have
to be grateful to you. I have thought so
much about it. I have so wished to know
you."

You have seen Mrs. Dorriman— you have

seen Grace, my sister, I mean," correcting
herself.

^^ Yes ; her name was in the book you had.
I thought it belonged to you''

'^ Mine is a very common name — Margaret."
^^ I know. I think it is a beautiful name;
it is my mother's name."

^'Your mother has been, she must have
been, very unhappy."

^^ Yes, but we only told her when I was
getting better — poor mother ! she cannot leave
her sofa. She is carried everywhere.
show sad!"

^^ Yes, it is terrible for her, and she has been
to me father and mother, and brother and
sister, since I am an only child."

^^ It must be so sad not to have a sister,"
said Margaret, softly. ^^ It must be like not
having the whole of oneself."

*' And yet sometimes sisters do not get
on," said Sir Albert, smiling, and thinking of
episodes in his family history that pointed
to a very different state of things.

VOL. II. c

Talking still, they turned at the end of the
path, the road beyond being too rough for Sir
Albert in his present condition; the faithful
John pushed the chair back again, accommodating
its pace to the footsteps of the girl who
walked beside it. What is the subtle influence
that makes one feel as though to one person
all may be confided, and to another as though
a visible barrier rises between you ? It is not
only sympathy, for sympathy comes when full
appreciation for a common object is discovered,
when the same bias of the mind is found in
each; but the appreciation must first be known.
It is something more — it is apart from love
between man and woman (though love on one
side or another frequently follows it) ; it is an
unknown force compelling us to frankness,
filling us with a sudden liking which we cannot
reason about, and do not find ourselves
able to account for.

Mr. Sandford, occupied by trying to mould
Mr. Drayton to his wishes, prepared to carry
his plans out at any sacrifice, little imagined

that a sudden obstacle was rising in a quarter
he never dreamed of, — like most of us, conscious
of our hopes and wishes only, and never
taking into account for one moment the many-combinations
against us.

This first meeting between two drawn together
in the beginning by an hour of pain
and anxiety J was naturally not the last. Margaret,
sometimes with the others, sometimes
with Grace, at times alone, met Sir Albert
Gerald every day. Acquaintance with him
did her good ; his larger views were often
opposed to her narrower experience, and in
argument her prejudices and preconceived
opinions gave way. She was truthful to herself
as to others, and she was forced to allow
the shallowness of her ground.

Upon his side there was a never-ending delight
in the absolute freshness of her mind.
Old ideas received a new beauty from her way
of seeing them, and he was often startled by
the poetry of a thought new to him.

The drawback to this pleasant acquaintance
c2

was the sense of its finality. They did not
know from day to day that Mr. Sandford
might not put a stop to it by taking the whole
party home.

Sir Albert, still a little weak from his severe
accident, never paused to question himself
where this delightful companionship was leading
him. He only knew that in her presence
he seemed to live. She drew out his noblest,
highest, and best feelings. She was to him a
guiding star ; he loved her passionately, and
he respected her as the purest and most perfect
of God's creatures. There were in these few
days none of those short partings which serve
to teach the real nature of a similar feeling inmost
cases. There was that sense of impending
parting possible, but far off, which is so
different from an announced fact ; there was
nothing to shake them into consciousness.

They grew silent now when they were together,
conscious of that full unison of thought
that requires no outward expression — a glance,
a look told all.

The trial to her was terrible just now, since
she could say nothing, and Mr. Sandford gave
the man she had begun to hate (Mr. Drayton)
every opportunity of being with her ; insisting
upon her receiving his attentions, more dreadful
to her now than ever.

She appealed to her uncle in private against
this persecution — in vain. He knew now,
though Mr. Drayton never put it into words,
that the price of his own safety was — Margaret.


In his solitary moments he ground his teeth
with rage — not because of her, poor child !
but because he had unwittingly put himself
into this position. He promised Mr. Drayton
that he would use his influence, but he warned
him that if he spoke now, when Margaret was
full of repulsion for him, all hope would be at
an end. ^* She has so high a spirit, that if she
were driven to it she would go away."

Mr. Drayton laughed. ^' Fancy you owning
yourself unable to cope with any young lady."

Mr. Sandford started from his chair, there

were many moments during their intercourse
when the whole fabric he had raised seemed
likely to fall ; there were many days when he
could hardly act his part — when remorse confronted
him, seeing what the man was made
of to whom he wished to consign Margaret.

Had Grace known then what she only
learned afterwards !

She drove Mr. Sandford to distraction, she
was so fitful, so impertinent, and so openly
regardless of any expressed wish of his.

Then he grew violent, and Margaret was
miserable.

It was after heavy rain ; the sullen clouds
had not yet begun to clear, and there was a
grey, dull, leaden look upon the reflecting
waves. Everything had combined to make
poor Margaret miserable. Mr. Sandford had
stormed, and there had been a scene before
Mr. Drayton. Grace had been in the wrong,
and this was an additional sorrow. Then Mr.
Drayton had taken advantage of the family
jar to pose as Margaret's defender, and afterwards

Grace had spoken bitterly. Why could
Margaret not accept this man (who had not
Mr. Sandiord's temper), and make a home for
them both ?

Distracted, wretched, her heart oppressed
by the bidden placed upon it by others — poor
Margaret sped along the road where she had
been when Sir Albert had fallen. She could
not meet him then — she could not bear him
to see her misery. She instinctively felt it
might be an appeal to him, and he was her
friend, she could not tax his friendship. Then
suddenly she saw him for the first time
walking.

'' Great ideas meet," he called out, as he saw
her coming. '^ I wanted to see the place that
made us known to each other'' Then, as
she came closer he saw the traces of tears,
the troubled look, and the small mouth was
quivering. He stopped short ; the sight of her
distress showed him what she was to him.
^^ Darling! " he said, softly ; and then with a

great effort he drove back the words rushing
to his hips.

She heard him, however, and a look of perfect
happiness flashed into her face.

He saw her turn towards him, surprised at
his silence. He did not know she had heard
that word.

He broke silence after a moment or two,
forcing himself to speak calmly — while his
heart was beating violently. ^' Are you surprised
to see me walking again ? " he said,
with a faint attempt at a smile. " I can walk
without pain, and I am not tired." She did
not answer, she was too much overwhelmed
by the sudden emotion of his betrayal of that
one word, and the forced calm afterwards.
What did it mean ? Had she mistaken him ?
A perfect quiver of fear, a sudden sense of
having by a look answered too readily something
he had not said — or had said by accident
filled her with dismay.

He read her thought, and he could not help
her. He bit his lip angrily. He had given

his mother his solemn word of honour that
never would he tell his love to any one till
he had told her first of his intention ; and it
seemed to him in the great anguish of that
moment that only now, only at that moment,
did the truth come to him. They stood side
by side looking out upon the sea, she dazed
with the misery of having misunderstood ; he
thinking how he might show her that there
was a reason for his silence, without breaking
his word of honom\ ^^ Margaret," he said,
and his voice dwelt lovingly upon her name,
"We are— friends, and we may trust each
other. I cannot say all — I am not free. Will
you trust me ? "

Her heart seemed to die within her. She of
course did not understand him, poor child.
Those words, I am not free should have ended
^' to speak just now ; " but in moments of great
agitation things are not always made clear.

She thought he was telling her, for her sake
perhaps, that he was not free, that they could
only be friends.

She turned towards him pale to her lips. ^^ I
understand'' she said faintly, ^^we can be
friends''

She had struggled for self-command; she was
afraid of saying more, but he must let her
know that he had something more to tell her
he was turning towards her to speak when
she suddenly moved away from him with a
gesture of farewell, and he was too feeble to
follow her swiftly.

All along the road home her heart was
throbbing with pain. She did not understand
that in so leaving him she was betraying how
deeply her affections were engaged.

He looked after her dismayed at first, and
then the happy conviction of her love filled his
mind, and all else was forgotten.

He hurried home and wrote long and fully
to his mother. He told her that his promise
to her had been kept, and how much it had
cost him to keep it ; he tried to describe Margaret,
and found his words cold and formal,
and he entreated his mother to telegraph and

to write without delay. He lay back exhausted
after this, and lost himself in the happiest day-dreams.


Soon, soon, the answer would be there, and
he could go to her and tell her something of
his love for her ; something, but not all. It
would take a lifetime, he thought, to prove his
devotion to her. As he sat thinking happily
about it all he did not hear the deep stifled
sobs of the poor child upstairs, struggling
through anguish and misery. He never dreamed
for one moment that he had been misunderstood,
and that in trying to say something, in
trying to explain without departing from his
promise, he had conveyed so false an impression
to her.

That parting in the grey light of a rainy
day was their real parting — for long — and
then all was changed.

When Margaret went down stairs and met
her sister and Mr. Sandford she saw that a
sudden decision had been come to, and that

they were to go, go back to the smoky place
they so disliked.

But the great blow that had fallen upon her
heart made all else sink to littleness. She was
stunned, and no change in their lives, no outside
accidents, seemed capable of affecting her.

Next day Sir Albert suffered from the exertion
and agitation of the previous one, and
was feverish and unwell. The doctor was
summoned by his faithful servant, and pronounced
him too unwell to rise or to see anyone.
Not all the prayers of his patient moved
him, and then, resigning himself to the inevitable,
the young man consoled himself. Had he
been able to see Margaret, what had he to say
to her ? What dared he say till the expected
telegram came to set his speech free ?

How long the hours seemed ! He kept
watching the clock and calculating how soon
it was possible to hear. His mother was in
Wales, and the telegram station was five miles
off. He saw it all in his mind's eye. Saw the
slow movements of the post-master and the

unkempt Welsh pony, and its rider with the
letter-bag. Often the boy, glad of the Castle's
hospitality on a wet day, would be told to
wait and take back the telegram. The hours
flew on and no response arrived. Night came
and John was sorely put to it to know what
to do — his master was evidently worse, and
yet he had been annoyed at the doctor being
hurried that morning, and had spoken very
sharply. What ailed him that he was so unlike
himself, so irritable, so anxious ?

All this time a tall grave man was hastening
to Lornbay— a man bearing grievous tidings
to poor Sir Albert Gerald.

While his telegram was speeding on its way,
all the hopes and fears and interests of life
had ceased for Lady Gerald. She lay dead ;
having been startled by the news of her son's
terrible accident, her slight hold upon life was
not strong enough to sustain a shock so great ;
and that very afternoon, when his promise to
her held him back from speaking to Margaret
as he longed to speak, she had died with loving

messages upon her lips to him. It was in the
morning ; John, with a grave face and that
air of preparedness for coming evil, came to
his master and spoke of evil tidings.

Mercifully, the instant those words are
breathed we believe the worst, and are so
made ready to bear it. Then his uncle, her
brother Mr. Winston, went up to his side and
told him all.

The tidings were unexpected and terrible to
him ; he loved her dearly, and all his life had
taught him to expect her to be delicate. He
was so accustomed to her being an invalid,
that he never thought of her as more fragile
than other people. And while he wept for
her, regardless for the time of all else, his poor
little love had gone — with that weary pain of
a blighted love to make her still childish heart
miserable — for ever ?

CHAPTER II.

Eenton Place looked black and dingy after
the clear air and great beauty of Lornbay.
Mrs. Dorriman, always susceptible to those
influences of natural external things, shivered,
and was depressed, and showed it by the
marked effort at cheerfulness she thought was
due to her brother.

Mr. Sandford was in a mood difficult to
understand. He travelled but a short way
with them, avoiding Margaret in a manner that
both the girls noticed, and interpreted differently.


He went into a smoking-carriage, chiefly

because they could not follow him there, and
he could be free from their observation. He
felt thoroughly uncomfortable. He had
carried his point with Mr. Drayton, conditionally,
and Margaret's face, with its wistful expression,
hurt him. Yes ; though he put it
differently to himself, he had virtually sacrificed
her to save his own position ; and his
word was given, and more, he had reluctantly
put it down in writing.

Mr. Drayton, while he covered his deepest
plans with a jovial laugh that threw every one
off their guard, had told him he must have something
in writing — not, of course, to show anyone,
'^ but as a satisfaction to myself," he said.

Mr. Sandford fought against this point, in
vain.

^' I do not believe you are in earnest," Mr.
Drayton had said. ^'I will do nothing for
nothing. If you intend to help me as you
have promised, why make such a fuss about
it ? "

^' I can only say I will do all I can."

'^ Then put that in writing."

And Mr. Drayton, with another laugh, wrote
out that he (Mr. Sandford) would not leave a
stone unturned, but would manage to induce
Margaret to marry Mr. Drayton.

When Mr. Sandford had signed it, a strong
misgiving crossed his mind. Mr. Drayton's
eyes had that look in them that Margaret had
noticed ; and he felt that remorse, that shrinking
from the consequences of his action, that
all men, not wholly bad, feel when they act
unworthily.

As he sat in the smoking-carriage alone he
was conscious of this pang about Margaret, and
he was glad to see a total stranger, evidently
not an Englishman, get into the carriage.

Anxious to avoid his own thoughts, he broke
silence, taking advantage of a turn on their
way that opened up an enchanting scene on
either side. Waving his hand towards the
window, he said, with that air of proprietorship
noticeable in some Scotchmen —

^^ A fine view, sir, a very fine view."

VOL. II. D

^^For God's sake, sir!" exclaimed Ms
fellow-traveller, with a very strong American
accent, ^' do not talk to me of the view. I
have a wife and two daughters in another compartment,
and I had to come away from them,
I am so dead sick of the way they go on about
the view. Why upon art don't you level it
all, and grow grain ? ''

Mr. Sandford was so taken aback at the
man's sentiments that he made no further
effort in his direction.

He also felt the depression hanging about
the air at Eenton ; but he had placed himself
in a position from which he could not escape.
He had a few days before him still; then,
before Mr. Drayton appeared, he had to say
something, and he had to say it in earnest, to
Margaret.

It was strange, he thought, that he hated
vexing or wounding her in any way. Had she
been like Grace, what would it have mattered ?
But the soft pleading eyes, that look of quiet
self-possession, which was so like her. He

hated by anticipation the look of horror he had
seen formerly in her face when Mr. Drayton
was in question. He diseased the coming
passage between them, as he seemed never to
have dreaded anything before.

Three days came and went, and the very
next day Mr. Drayton was to appear and expected
to find that all had gone well, and not
one word had Mr. Sandford found the courage
to say. Margaret was unusually quiet, even
for her; Grace was in a bitter and discontented
mood, and tried her sorely. She could
not know the weary aching pain that had
never left her sister since that fatal interview
on the hills. Margaret, who had plenty of
spirit generally, and who could parry any
remarks she did not like, was now dull and
depressed. She had had her dream, and life
was a blank to her henceforward. And yet
she could not understand it — surely she was
not all wrong. And the expression of those
dark eyes was speaking the truth perhaps —
he did love her and yet was bound. It was all

D 2

terrible and black as night, before and all
around her.

Grace went downstairs the morning Mr.
Sandford had resolved to announce his expected
guest to Margaret, in a flighty, wild,
odd state. She drove Mrs. Dorriman distracted,
turned Jean into ridicule, and ended
by provoking Mr. Sandford to such an extent
that one of his most terrible fits of temper
ensued.

He literally raved at her, he ordered her out
of the house, and altogether, when Margaret
hurried downstairs, he was quite beside himself
; there was no insult he could think of he
did not fling at Grace, who for once in her
life was fairly terrified.

It was Margaret who took her upstairs,
Margaret, who, white; to her lips, that terrible
sense of impending evil pressing upon her,
began putting their things together. Grace
looked at her blankly, she had a glimmer of
its being her fault, and she broke out into
murmurs and abuse of Mr. Sandford. '' We

cannot stay'' she said, and Margaret trembling
answered her, '^ No, we cannot stay."

In silence they went on with their preparations
; wondering a little that Mrs. Dorriman
did not come near them, not knowing that
Mr. Sandford prevented her doing so. He
never, for a moment, thought Margaret would
be such a fool as to go too, and when Mrs.
Dorriman suggested this, he got so violent she
was forced to draw back.

The girls were ready, and they went downstairs.
Mr. Sandford suffering, as he always
did, after his fits of passion, was lying back in
his chair in his own room, every nerve in his
head throbbing, and his head feeling as if it
would burst. He heard the door open, and
Margaret, yes Margaret, walked in. She was
very white and was trembling. He heard her
wish him good-bye, and had no power to stop
her. She went out gently, and the two
forlorn figures left the house, neither of them
knowing where to go, full of but one idea,
going away and being free.

They had a little money, and neither of
them were anxious about ways and means.
To the eyes of youth and inexperience, living
seems so easy ; they had of their own about
forty pounds a year ; this they thought was
quite sufficient ; and they would make money ;
that also seemed so easy in the sublime self-confidence
of their youth. They took the
train without clearly knowing which station to
go to, and, finding that Glasgow seemed to
lead everywhere, they went there in the first
instance, and then consulting the book they
went to a little village among the hills where
they thought they might rest quietly and
arrange their future plans.

No scenery in the world varies more than
does Scottish scenery under the changing
influence of the weather. All its rugged
grandeur — so splendid bathed in sunlight —
so magnificent when partly veiled by those
light fleecy clouds that give a subtle charm to
its grand hills, and which sends out that
marvellous blue colour by the force of contrast

becomes, under the sullen splash of a downpour
of rain dreary, oppressive, and bleak.
The rain fell heavily as the two girls stopped
at Torbreck, and they looked around them
in dismay.

The little station was apart from the village,
in the dim distance some small white houses
were dotted about. Stacks of peat rose
around, and the wide muir on which Torbreck
was built was disfigured by the peat cuttings,
now filled with water, which had the deep
black tinge of bog-water.

There was no carriage of any kind, the
station being a small one of no importance, and
having been made chiefly to bring the herds of
Highland cattle within reach of the market-town,
and for the convenience of a few Highland
proprietors who lived some miles off, and
who had obtained the concession by yielding
their land to the Railway Company on favourable
terms.

Leaving their luggage to be sent for, the
two girls walked to the village, utterly unconscious

of an angry and amazed face that
noted their movements.

That day Mr. Drayton had gone to Glasgow
en route for Ronton Place, and he saw the
girls at the station, he heard their discussion
about the best step, and resolved to find out
what it all meant. He had followed them in
another part of the train.

Naturally enough he imagined that they
were going because of Mr. Sandford's insistance
about him, and he was very angry. The
man must have bungled in some way, knowing
nothing of girls, of Margaret's real character ;
it seemed to him that she was one of those
very gentle quiet people who could be persuaded
easily. Why not? He was not an
ugly, or an old fellow, he thought. He had all
his life been considered handsome. His
bright colour and curly hair, his blue eyes
and ready laugh, had won him great applause
among his few feminine belongings. He had
been flattered by most of them, and though
his vanity occasionally received a shock, and

he sometimes felt himself at a disadvantage,
he generally consoled himself quickly. He
was too full of self appreciation to be long
unhappy about any slight check, and we all
know that every commonest expression is
capable of many interpretations. He was too
wise to get out at Torbreck, but he stopped at
the next station.

The object of his going to Ronton was now
at an end, and he sat down to think over the
position of affairs quietly. After reflecting
upon it all he made up his mind to two things,
he must know why the girls had left Consonant
he would not tell Mr. Sandford where they
were.

He went back to Glasgow, telegraphed to
Ronton to Mrs. Dorriman that he had been
detained, but was on his way there, and would
follow his telegram as soon as he possibly
could.

Mr. Sandford, in the meantime, was alternating
between fits of remorse and despair.

What had he to say when this man came and
claimed that '' pound of flesh " ?

Misfortunes never come singly. That afternoon
the post brought letters to Ronton Place
loving to the master who had so long ruled
as with a rod of iron that his sagacity was at
fault, and that he who had been for so long a
signal mark for success had been proved unwise
and that his speculations had failed. It did
not mean ruin or even very heavy loss, but it
di d mean loss of prestige to some extent, and
it came at an inopportune moment. There is
a cert ain state of bodily health when a pin-prick
may produce disastrous consequences;
there is also a corresponding attitude of mind
when reverses come with an overwhelming
depression, far, far beyond their actual real
weight; and then — with that look of happy
success characteristic of Mr. Drayton, he
arrived, and Mr. Sandford felt that he hated
him.

Is it not hard that a man sometimes suffers
because nature, ever impartial in the distribution

of her gifts, has pointed his nose upwards
instead of downwards. He may be full of
sublime thoughts, intellectual capacity, and
have a decided inclination for poetry, but we
credit him with common aspirations only,
because of the fluctuation of his nasal organ
from the direct perpendicular.

Mr. Drayton might suffer deeply but he
never could look miserable ; we associate unhappiness
with pallor, depressed muscles round
the mouth, and drooping eye-lids, and he had a
rosy and somewhat beaming face, very round,
wide - opened eyes, inclined to stare, and a
large mouth wearing a perpetual expression of
satisfaction. When the two men confronted each
other, Mr. Sandford, whose brow was ruffled
with care, and who looked as though he had
not slept, could not utter the conventional
welcome, he could not speak. Mrs. Dorriman,
seeing something unusual, went to his side in
fear, and her little, feeble, spasmodic greeting
saved both men from a very awkward silence.

swells'' said Mr. Drayton, pleasantly, sand

how are the young ladies ? how is Miss
Margaret ? "

A deep, red flush mounted into Mr. Sandford's
face, he turned hurriedly to his sister.

^^ Leave us," he said, shortly, and she, trembling,
obeyed.

'^ Drayton," he said, in a tone that betrayed
effort and agitation, '^ I had no opportunity of
speaking. I intended to keep my word at
any cost to myself, but it has been impossible."

'^ Really," said Mr. Drayton, scornfully.
^' Well, let me see Miss Margaret and plead my

cause with her; let me tell her what I

must tell her in order that she may understand."


'' You cannot see her ; she is not here."

'' Not here ! What do you mean ? What
foul trick have you played me ? "

'^ I have played you no trick and you need
not bluster and take that tone ! " answered Mr.
Sandford, angrily, his temper rising.

'' I have your promise, in words, over andover
again, in writing also ; I insist on knowing

how it all came about. You must have
done your spiriting very ungently, perhaps
said something unfavourable of me. I declare
to you I cannot trust you."

^' I never mentioned your name. Grace sent
me nearly mad and I said something to her
about leaving the house, then Margaret went
with her."

^as this the truth?"

'^ It is the truth."

*' And her leaving this house had nothing todo
with me ? "

'^ Nothing whatever."

Mr. Drayton felt that, so far, all was well,
but he would not betray any satisfaction to the
man before him.

Those investments I followed your advice
about have brought me a loss," he said, after a
pause, watching Mr. Sandford's face keenly.

*^ A loss?"

** Not in money ; but my manager has given
up his place, and his going is a serious loss.
You are really the cause of his departure. He

does not believe in you to the same extent
other people do. I am sorry, but is there nota
proverb about good fish being still in the
sea? He was a good man but a trifle too
cautious, yes, much too cautious ! Well, as
Miss Margaret is not here I shall go back."

Mr. Sandford heard this and was uneasy.
He knew quite well that Mr. Drayton had no
business capacity, and it came home to him
very clearly that now that man's influence was
withdrawn other people might find the way ta
his pocket as easily as he had done, when
Margaret was in the background.

'• I am sorry," he said curtly, relieved to
find that he was to be left alone. Mr. Drayton,
now Margaret had gone, did not see the use
of staying. He made very short adieus to
Mrs. Dorriman, and she noticed that he had
kept his cab waiting, and had never had his
luggage taken oK

brother," she said, softly laying her hand
upon his arm, *^Mr. Drayton has seen Margaret

somewhere, he knows where she is. He knew
she was not here."

Mr. Sandford stared at her. She sometimes

took him by surprise, this under-valued sister

of his, and her idea now struck him with surprise.

He thought (now that he had time to

arrange his ideas) that Drayton had taken the

announcement coolly. At the moment it had

been a relief, now it confirmed his sister's

words. He suspected that she was right,

nevertheless it was a sort of surprise to him.

It is difficult when one person has habitually

put another into a position of inferiority all

their lives, and considered them dull, suddenly

to change and to credit them with quickness of

apprehension. He gave a sort of grunt, and

went back to his den. The most important fact

now was the resignation of Mr. Drayton's

manager. As far as he himself was personally

concerned he was glad. Whatever happened

now, those lynx-eyes were not in a position to

look at the matter confidentially. Still the

other side of the question, abovementioned,

did not make it altogether pleasant news, and
he set himself to think if there was any way
in which he could lay a restraining hand upon
Mr. Drayton, or rather on Mr. Drayton's
speculative tendencies. In the meantime at
Torbreck the girls were not doing very well.

They had arrived in a drenched condition
at the very small inn, and had applied for a
room and for something to go for their
luggage.

But, though they got a room, it was fireless,
and the luggage a greater difficulty.

There were horses, but they were all busy ;
the little place, self-contained and prosperous
enough, was not prepared for the advent of
strangers.

A fire was kindled, but would not burn, the
smoke insisted on searching every corner of
the room, and if it went up the chimney it
came out in puffs in an unexpected and distracting
way altogether ; the girls sitting there
felt their spirits go down to the very lowest
ebb, and shivered.

Nothing could be more cheerless than the
place — one black horsehair sofa, two rather
narrow arm-chairs, and six other chairs, a
table that nearly filled up the room in the
middle of it, upon which a dusty-coloured
worsted mat reposed, three funeral cards of
departed relations framed and glazed upon the
chimney-piece, and a convex mirror, which
reflected and distorted with strict impartiality
everything that was there.

After waiting a long time in their wet things,
since they had nothing to put on dry till their
luggage came, they got some tea and hoped
that its warmth would revive them, but the tea
was tepid ; an accident not unknown to history
when there is nothing to keep it hot, and a
peat fire, though cheerful to look at and hot
enough, does not offer the convenience of a hot
plate.

The bedroom close to the sitting-room was
as small as it could well be, and the sisters
could barely turn round in it. Grace sat looking
straight before her. She was feeling very

VOL. II. E

ill. At all times a little fastidious, the second-rate
baker's bread (tasting of sawdust) and the
uninviting tea, extinguished all wish to eat.
She had the painful satisfaction of knowing that
her own want of self-control had brought them
to this, and yet, poor child, this was nothing to
what the future held in store for her, though h
she did not know it !

The sisters did not speak, they both felt that
it was all best endured in silence ; they sat, cold
and very wretched, till their luggage arrived,
then soon creeping into bed they tried to sleep
and to forget their misery.

Soon Margaret slept. Her calmer and less
excitable temperament always gave her this
advantage, and she slept soundly.

But Grace was sleepless, the shadows of the
night oppressed her ; long after her sister's
regular breathing told its own story she lay
tossing wearily from side to side. The small
room seemed to stifle her ; to the intense cold
and shivering she had suffered from, had succeeded
burning heat, her head seemed too

heavy to lift from her pillow, and it was very
early when Margaret was startled by a sharp
cry of distress and anguish, and heard Grace
saying :

^' I am very ill ; Oh ! Margaret, wake up and
do something for me ! ''

The morning had barely come, the grey
dawn, moisture-laden, grew slowly into perfect
day ; and poor Margaret with a cloak thrown
over her, her long fair hair streaming over
her shoulders, her sleepy eyes looking wonderingly
round her, went downstairs to do her
best.

One bare-footed girl was busy, early though
it was, and to her Margaret explained herself.

With evident reluctance she went to call her
mistress, who came inclined to be cross at
losing an hour's much-needed rest.

But crossness vanished when she saw Margaret,
and she went upstairs with her ; where
poor Grace, with a crimson face and panting
heavily, lay tossing from side to side and
calling her sister.

2

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS Library

*' How can you leave me when you see how
iUIam? I shall die! I know I shall die."

She was frightened, and crying hysterically.

To her immense surprise, Mrs. Munro gave
her a good scolding. The surprise was so
great that it quieted her, and when that good
woman saw the effect she had produced, she
left her, to see and get some remedy and to
send for the doctor. Before night she was
worse, and both knew now that her illness
was no light thing. She was suffering acutely,
and her illness was pronounced to be inflammation
of the lungs.

Mrs. Munro was glad it was ^' no a
catching thing," and was sorry for them.
The women of her class in Scotland may be
rough, and have a keen eye to a bargain ; but
their kindness is often wonderful !

Margaret, whose courage always rose when
it was needed, neither gave way or got unduly
frightened. But she had all the dread of
necessary expense that yet could not be met.
Grace, always thoughtless and often unreasonable,

wanted and asked for a thousand things
difficult to obtain, and of course proportionately
expensive. Money melted fast. It was
impossible to worry Grace, and the burden
fell with all its weight upon poor Margaret.

She took counsel with the landlady, and
found that she had acted unwisely in so doing.
Mrs. Munro had imagined from their appearance
and all else that they had plenty of
money. Margaret, in her great inexperience,
talked of having none, meaning no money for
heavy extra expenses. Mrs. Munro, with a
sensible loss of respect in her manner, inquired
sharply,

'^ And how am I to be paid, and me doing
all I can?"

^^ I do not mean that," said poor Margaret;
but we are not rich enough, my sister and I,
to be able to buy expensive things."

People should say what they mean," said
Mrs. Munro, slightly consoled, but not altogether
easy in her mind.

She took counsel with the doctor ; and he,

who knew of their connection with Mr. Sandford,
and indeed thought the relationship
closer than it really was, reassured her on the
subject.

'* But how comes it then that these two
young ladies are ravaging about the country
by themselves and na a maid or a soul with
them, and they come of rich folk? "asked
Mrs. Munro.

^^ Young ladies have often independent
ideas'' said Mr. Burns ; '^ but when I was
staying with a friend, not far from Eenton,
the talk there was about the arrival of these
young ladies, indeed, I myself saw them
there one day walking in the town."

swell! well! and so I need not be anxious,"
said Mrs Munro, much relieved ; '^ but what
with gaseous waters and fruits there will be
something big to pay ; and dear me, Miss
Margaret's a nice young lady, she ought to
have some one to help, she's nigh worn out
already, and it's like to be a time yet before
she can see her sister out of bed."

^' Her sister is very seriously ill' said the
doctor J with a graver face; ^^ I am afraid she is
constitutionally delicate. I wonder what her
mother died of."

''Oh ! I think that will have been a natural-like
death, for Miss Margaret said she died in
India, and that's a country that kills many
folks," she said, comfortably; ^Hhey that live
come home yellow, and when they don't turn
yellow they die."

become, come," said Dr. Burns, '^ I know
many that neither turn yellow nor die, that is
merely a prejudice."

'^ It is no prejudice, doctor. I had an uncle
once, and he was like one of they dried
things they call mummies and show in
museums ; and people said if you could see
his inside it would be all shrivelled up like
an old walnut, and I am sure that never was
in our family. It was all India ; he was a soldier,
poor man, and had gone through a deal."

Dr. Burns had no time to carry on the
discussion : he was professionally anxious

about Grace, she was still so feverish, and,
though the acute pain was lessened, her cough
was most distressing, and her weakness very
great.

'^ Have you no one to come and help you ?"
he asked Margaret one day when he had
found her worn out, suffering acutely from
headache, and in a very depressed state.

^^ No one," she answered, in a low voice.
^' I did propose some one to my sister, but she
says if she came she would get much worse."

^^ It is really thoughtless, and, I may say,
selfish of her," he said, earnestly. ^^If my
wife were at home I should send her to help
you ; let me try and get a nurse for you ?"

'^ Oh, no ! " said Margaret, earnestly and
very eagerly. ^' I cannot — we cannot afford
the expense. I am doing my best, my sister
does not suffer from my want of experience,"
and she looked up very fearfully.

'^ I am not thinking of her so much as of
you'' he said, bluntly. Then he went on, ina
matter-of-fact tone — ^^Your sister is better ;

the pain is lessened, but the fever still runs
high. I do not think she is so strong as you
are. What did your mother die of ? do you
know ? She died when you were a baby in
India, Mrs. Munro tells me, probably of some
fever, did she not ? "

^' She died of consumption' said Margaret,
who did not for a moment see the connection
of ideas. Then it flashed across her, and she
said, clasping her hands, and in a perfect agony
of feeling — ^' You do not —you cannot — think
Grace so ill. Oh ! tell me, tell me ; " and,
weakened by her long watching and hastily-taken
meals, she lost her self-command, and
cried pitifully.

'' I am sorry to have frightened you," said
Dr. Burns, who understood her tears, and who,
while full of sympathy, spoke in that calm
tone which quelled her excitement better thana
show of kindness might have done.

'' There is no danger at present, absolutely
none ; but there is great weakness, and very
great delicacy."



'^ What should we do ? What ought she
to do'' asked Margaret, .struggling for her
self-command, ashamed of having so completely
lost it.

'' When she is able for it, she ought to go to
some drier climate," he said, looking at the
window, where, every now and again, the raindrops
came with a vicious splash, '^ and, forgive
me Miss Rivers, but you cannot command
many comforts here. Why do you not write
to Mr. Sandford."

^' That we cannot do, least of all for
Grace ! '' poor Margaret said unguardedly.

'^ Of course, I have no right to interfere,
but I cannot help feeling interested in the
case, and your sister ought to be moved soon ;
that room is too small for an invalid ; the surroundings
are too depressing. To be of full
use to her you should be cheerful and well ;
and, bless me ! this is not the place for either
of you. I would get out of it as soon as I
could — if you will forgive my saying so."
He left the room downstairs, where she went

with him each day, to learn, without Grace's
overhearing, all he had to say. Margaret
stood like a statue after his departure, looking
blankly before her, seeing nothing.

What could she do ? What was to become
of them ? She resolved to make one final
appeal to her sister about writing to Mrs.
Dorriman. If she would consent to this — if
she would allow her to endeavour to make
friends with Mr. Sandford, all would be well.

If not . . . Margaret came to herself with
a start. A horrible conviction began to pierce
through all her anxiety. The end would have
to be her marriage with Mr. Drayton.

There was nothing else. These two courses
alone were open to her. After all, as he was
not free, did it matter so much what became of
her ? In all good women's natures there is a
vein of self-sacrifice. Her life, she thought,
would not have been in vain if she could save
her sister. And she did not in the least comprehend
Mr. Drayton's character.

She thought him unrefined, noisy, but probably

good-hearted and generous. She
thought of Grace so completely as a bit of herself
that it never for a moment crossed her
mind that any one would think of them apart.
The absence of all close ties, save that one,
made it all in all to her.

Slowly she went upstairs. She would speak to
Grace. She would appeal to her. She knew only
too well that if she acted without her consent,
if she appealed to Mrs. Dorriman, Grace would
work herself into a fever ; the consequences
might be fatal to her. She could not write
and not speak, because she knew that she had
grown very dear to the poor woman, who had
so little outlet for her affections, and that she
would come herself to look after them.

When she went into her sister's room she
found her asleep ; but it was not the sleep of
perfect convalescence. There was still much
fever, and as poor Margaret watched her tossing
and wretched meanings at intervals, her
heart sank, and she feared everything !

CHAPTER III.

Sir Albert Gerald hurried to his Welsh home
finding the tediousness of his journey and the
inevitable jolting of the railway carriage
almost beyond his strength.

John remonstrated in vain. To the young
man there was something tragical in his
mother's death, apart from the only being she
loved and clung to.

That doubt that visits most people when
one loved is gone, as to whether we have in anyway
failed towards them, visited him now. Even
his new passion for Margaret was for the

moment pushed upon one side, and he would,
he must, be beside her, see her once more ; and
he would not allow any personal ease or want
of strength to stay him.

The result might have been guessed by all.
When he got home he carried out his wish, he
did see that loved face once more, but a return
of the acute internal pain stretched him on his
bed, and the local doctor, fearing for him in
his reduced state, gave him opiates, and so
kept him from consciousness and suffering at
the same time.

Afterwards, what pain he would willingly
have borne ! had he been allowed full consciousness.


It was some weeks before he emerged from
the darkened room, and his first act was to
find out Margaret's address.

But, though he learned the sisters had gone
from Lornbay, no one knew where, and when
his pressing letters stirred a friend into
action, and that he actually went to Renton, it
was only to find that they were no longer

there, and that even Mrs. Dorriman had not

their address.

To her he wrote and made no secret of his

anxiety to find Margaret, but with the best will

in the world (and she sincerely liked Sir

Albert) she could say nothing, knowing

nothing.

At that very time Margaret was trying to

resign herself to a fate she dreaded for the

sake of Grace.

When on that memorable evening the doctor
had spoken out his fears, and Margaret had
watched by her sister's bedside, she had
noticed the hollow cheeks and listened to her
distracting cough, she absolutely hated herself
for shrinking from any sacrifice and so save
her.

Had she had one shred of hope in
connection with Sir Albert it would have been
impossible, but she had no hope ; and more than
this, the terrible stab to her pride, the feeling
that she had given her love without its being
really sought, maddened her at times. He

would hear of her, if she married Mr. Drayton,
and he would never know the truth.

Grace woke in a paroxysm of pain and terror;
till now she had suffered acutely, but there had
been no haemorrhage, now it came on, and poor
Margaret, terrified and dreading she knew not
what, was driven to despair. Standing by her
sister and watching her agonized face lie took
a solemn vow that at any cost to herself she
would save her.

After a night of bitterest anguish and
suffering came peace, and Margaret slept on
the hard little sofa, slept profoundly through
all the stir and bustle of the '' Sun " till the
afternoon.

There was a shaded light in the room, and
when she woke it was with the consciousness
of some one gazing at her, which most of us
have known by experience. Startled and confused,
her lovely eyes still heavy with sleep,
and her hair in disorder, she sat up and looked
round her.

There, sitting like a silent fate, on the opposite

side of the room, was the man she dreaded,
Mr. Drayton, who was intently watching her.

Margaret started to her feet, a burning blush
rising to her face.

'how did you come here'' she said. 'why
did Mrs. Munro let you come upstairs ? "

'^ I have been at Eenton, Margaret '' (she
never noticed that he spoke her name
familiarly) " Do you think I could stop
away when I knew that you were wandering
and by yourself? "

My sister has been very ill, she is very
ill' poor Margaret said, trembling.

A bad place to be ill in," he said. "No
comforts, let alone luxuries. " Now what can
I do for you ? make a friend of me. I will do
what I can, and I will do it willingly for your
sake."

Margaret could not speak. She had thought
everything possible a few hours before, and

now Why did that sound of the sea fill

her ears, that sound that made a grand chant
as an accompaniment to other words and other

VOL. II. P

tones ? She pressed back that memory. Mr.
Drayton was again speaking.

'' I trust you will let me be of use," he was
saying, wondering what caused that flush of
consciousness that came into her face and died
away again.

'^ You are very good," she said, in a low
voice.

He made one or two steps nearer her, and,
in that small room this brought him close.
She shrank back involuntarily, and he saw the
movement and it made him savage. But he
controlled himself ; he began to understand a
little of her character ; if he intended to win
he must be cautious.

^^ I will go now'' he said, taking her cold
little hand in his, '' but I will not go far, and
you must think of me as your* friend ; will
you?"

Again came the faintly-uttered words,

'^ You are very good."

He gave one lingering look at her and went

downstairs, calling Mrs. Munro in a sharp,
quick tone.

^'Mr. Sandiord requested me to see that the
sick young lady and her sister had every
comfort you can provide. Can you think of
anything ? "

^' Oh dear, sir'' said poor Mrs. Munro,
immensely relieved by this declaration, ^^that
poor thing ought to have a nurse, and I've
said so over and over again but Miss Margaret
she seems afraid of spending. I was quite sure,
sir, myself, it would be all right, such young
ladies as these are, poor things ; and Miss
Margaret would not buy herself a sofa — a sofa
to sleep on — and I have done my best, having
my own work and the house on my hands, and
responsibility ; night work is not in my way,
sir ; but the scores of times I've been up and
down those stairs, they're not much to look at
but they're tiresome to go up and bad to comedown
when it comes to being often, sir."

'^ Buy what is wanted and let me know
what it is, for Mr. Sandford. Anything

E 2

wanted you are to get at once, and you need
not worry Miss Margaret or say I have had a
hand in it. She might not like my meddling.
I am Mr. Sandford's acquaintance more than
hers and I am acting for him." He went out of
the house without waiting to hear her answer.

Then he went to the doctor's house and
cross-questioned him. He learned from him
what was wanted, and played his part well.
Dr. Burns was delighted that Mr. Sandford
was now taking up their case, and telegraphed
for a nurse and various things he thought
necessary without loss of time.

Margaret's surprise was unbounded ; she
never for one moment doubted the truth of
the landlady's story, and was too completely
worn out to question the nurse closely when
she came. She knew Mr. Sandford was really
generous, and she thought that, having heard of
Grace's illness from Mr. Drayton, he was trying
to help her, and she expected to see Mrs. Dorian's
pleasant face appear at any moment.

The choicest fruit, the rarest flowers, everything

money could procure, arrived without
stint, and Grace began to revive. Margaret
took the first opportunity of writing a long
letter to Mrs. Dorriman; her heart overflowed,
she thanked her for all her thoughtfulness and
kindness, said how often she had wished herself
with her sympathetic kindness to help
her, and sent a message full of kindly feeling
to Mr. Sandford. She had just completed her
letter, written with difficulty, since Grace
claimed her every moment and the interruptions,
added to the trouble she had of showing
her gratitude and expressing her sorrow without
reflecting on her sister's short-comings,
when Mr. Drayton came in.

'^ You have been writing'' he said, seeing
what her occupation had been.

Yes, I have been thanking dear Mrs.
Dorriman for being so thoughtful and so kind
about my sister. All the luxuries, the better
nursing, so many comforts, are saving her
life'' and Margaret's eyes were softer than

ever, and moist with feeling. ^^ I can never
thank her enough."

'ris there so much to be grateful for?" he
asked, in a tone she could not quite understand,
and did not, at the moment, pause to
consider.

'' Ah, you cannot know what it was before,"
she said, fervently; ^' to see my poor sister
d3dng and not to know how to help her, and
then to see her reviving ; and you have been
kind, too," she added, as a faint colour came
into her cheek, '^ and I believe you told Mrs.
Dorriman. Indirectly we owe it to you, and
I am grateful to you."

He was thrown off his guard.

'margaret," he said, hoarsely, ^^ would it
pain you to owe it all to me ? If your letter
is to thank Mrs. Dorriman then do not send
it for I never wrote to her. Those things
and the attendance you think so much of,
trifles in themselves, are really for you from
me. I would die to serve you ! These seem
but little things."

Margaret, startled and alarmed, looked at
him with dismay and even terror in her face ;
she felt as though the meshes of a net were
being drawn together and that she was being
suddenly made to feel all efforts at escape were
powerless.

Mr. Drayton still watched her keenly.
Would this avowal help him or keep her
further from him ?

How can I thank you ? " she said at last,
with white and trembling lips.

You know how. Do not speak, for if you
spoke just now you might destroy all my
hopes of happiness. I know," he said, bitterly,
^^ that not only you do not love me but that
you positively shrink from being under any
obligation to me. But, Margaret, think it
over. I am ready to do all I can, and you
have no one else. I would be content to love
you ; I do not expect that a young and beautiful
girl like you can return my passion''

He stopped short. Margaret sat silent, cold
as a very statue.

^' Think it over," he repeated, and his voice
was full of pathos and passion. ^^ And, when
you have decided, send me one word, come.
Till then I will leave you in peace."

He rose and left her, and the poor child sat
on with the dazed feeling of helplessness that
sometimes follows the news of some great
calamity, hardly able to think, her head ina
perfect whirl.

She was roused by the nurse, who told her
her sister wanted her.

Then one ray of hope came to her; she
would speak of it to Grace ; she thought, now
Grace was better and more capable of forming
an opinion, she would herself wish to prevent
this way of escape and that she would think of
going back and propose it. She went to her,
into the larger room Mr. Drayton had insisted
upon her having, and went up to the sofa
where Grace lay placid, surrounded by flowers
and things he had sent her.

'^ Grace," she said, kneeling by her and
looking in her sister's face with a world of

protest and anxiety in her eyes, 'when you
are quite well again you would not mind
giving up luxuries. When you are really
yourself again you will not fear poverty ? "

'^ Margaret, what do you mean ? " exclaimed
Grace, in agitated tones; ^^ these things, as
you call them, are necessities to me now."

^' But, if to have them, Grrace, I was forced
to do something I very much hate doing, that
would spoil my life for always ; you would do
without things when you are well, Grace ?
And we might go back."

^^You may do what you like, Margaret,
just as you choose, but I never will go back to
that odious man and that detestable place."

^' Not if it saved me from life-long sorrow? "

^^ That is nonsense, Margaret. I know
quite well what you mean ; you mean that
you do not want to marry Mr. Drayton, and
you have all kinds of high-flown ideas ; why,
if you married him we should be happy always,
and I do hate poverty ! " and Grace feebly

drew her quilt — one of his gifts — up to her
ears.

^^But, Grace'' pleaded Margaret, craving for
one little word of comfort or help, ^' I have
such a strong conviction that such a marriage
is a wicked thing to do. I think it is so
wrong to marry when love is not there. It is
such a solemn thing, Grace. It is like doing
wrong deliberately."

'^ You make everything solemn," said Grace,
in a peevish tone ; ^' I am asking you to do
nothing I would not do myself. If Mr.
Drayton asked me to marry him I would say
eyes,' directly."

'^ But we are different."

^^ Yes, we are different; and now you have
made me miserable. I shall do nothing now
but lie still and expect to see all my comforts
vanish," and a violent fit of coughing silenced
her.

That afternoon she was worse; the excitement
of the conversation had been too much
for her. When night came on once again the

terrible haemorrhage came on. Even the nurse
upbraided Margaret.

' Your sister was doing so well till you
went to talk to her' she said ; " young people
never can be made to understand how very
quiet a person in Miss Rivers' s state should be
kejDt. Another attack like this might be fatal
to her."

All night Margaret watched and prayed
alternately. Her spirits were in a feverish,
excited state. She was wild with remorse one
moment and in despair the next. The attack
was dreadful to witness in itself, and Grace's
deep terror made it all the more terrible.

When morning dawned a note lay on the
table addressed to Mr. Drayton. It was an
appeal that might have moved any one not
selfishly bent on his own end. Margaret
asked him if he thought a marriage could be
hap^Dy for either of them where upon her side
lay no love. ^^ I am grateful to you, but
gratitude is different if you insist upon this
proof. You are making me do wrong, no

blessing will follow." She wrote this hoping,
trusting to his generosity. But as she sent it
she said to herself it was her last chance — that
if her words did not move him now her
sacrifice would have to be complete. Grrace
lay prostrate, too languid to take notice of
anything, too much exhausted to be able to
speak.

The doctor was distressed, and poor Margaret
felt an indirect reproach was conveyed
to her in the * urgent words to the nurse about
'^ Keep Miss Rivers quiet; agitation, the least
excitement, will prove fatal."

And this step, by which alone it seems I
can save her, kills my life also' Margaret
breathed softly to herself.

Mr. Drayton did not, in the least, understand
all the poor child meant to convey in
her letter ; the one fact made all others of no
account — Margaret would marry him, and he
had gained his point.

Mr. Sandford would have seen something in
his face, had he been there, which Margaret

had seen long ago. His steel • blue eyes
gleamed with triumph and a curious shifting
light.

He went to the ^' Sun," as soon as he possibly
could, and Margaret read her fate in his
expression ; and her heart seemed to die
within her.

*****

Some weeks passed away. Where had
Margaret learned all the caution she showed
now ? She was going to make a sacrifice.
The instinct of self-preservation made her
write to Mr. Sandford ; she insisted upon
seeing him at once, and Mrs. Dorriman she
entreated to come to her.

Mr. Drayton was very much annoyed when
he found what she had done. ^' They will
take you away," he said ; '^ they will come
between us."

^' I have given you my promise," she said,
coldly, '' is not that enough ? "

There was no room in the little inn for
either, but Margaret took some lodgings. It

was the best, as their presence would have
agitated Grace too much.

Mr. Sandford found a new Margaret in the
cold, calm resolute girl before him.

She told him shortly and very quietly that
she had promised to marry Mr. Drayton.

'' But I no longer wish it' he said eagerly,
and hoping to see her soften and change.
Her hard, cold expression was a terrible
disappointment.

I have promised," she answered, '^ and I
wanted you to come because, if I do this, it is
for Grace ; and you must manage for me, that,
if I live or die, Grace will be cared for. She
must have plenty, always. You are wise
about things, and clever. I give my life,
and Grace must have plenty."

'' But, Margaret ! Is Grace worth this ? A
tiresome, wrong-headed, selfish creature ''

'please spare her to me!" said Margaret,
passionately ; '' she is my sister, and I love
her."

^^ But surely "

*' I have promised," repeated Margaret, and
Mr. Sandford controlled his temper. He said,
quietly,

Only say one thing, that I am not the

cause "

^^ I cannot say it," said Margaret, vehemently;
^^ you offered us a home, and you
made that home unbearable."
^^ You are ungenerous."
'^ Were you generous when you taunted us,
when you said we were to go ? "
'' I never said so to you."
^^ You said it to Grace, my sister, whom I
love better than my life."

Then his temper rose, and he said cruel and
bitter things of Grace ; and Margaret stood up,
and, resuming her reserve and coldness, faced
him.

^^ It is nothing to you," she began, in low
tones, ^^you say these things, and expect me
to hear them. I do not value your love forme
— if you do love me as you say — because
you will extend no forbearance to my sister.

You cannot separate us — in feeling. She is
part of myself, and — for her sake — things can
be met that would otherwise be impossible."

Mr. Sandford was silent. He never realised
the effect of his violence, and he was conscious
of so much liking for Margaret that he thought
her ungrateful for not returning his affection
in some degree.

^^ I will have neither act nor part in this
marriage," he said, rising.

'' You will not help me, so far, then?" she
asked, wearily, '' and I have no one else."

Mr. Sandford wrote an address down.

'this man will help you," he said, hiding
his uncomfortable feelings under an increase of
gruff ness. '' He is a lawyer, and will arrange
matters. As for me, I am of no use, and I
wash my hands of all your concerns henceforward."


He left her feeling more forlorn than before.
She was conscious now of having had a vague
hope, in some way, of his arranging things for
her and Grace, of having received kindness.

She felt that loyalty to her sister demanded
that she should resent his words; and she
resolutely pushed away any regrets from her.

Then she sat down, and began to write to
the address given to her. She found it
difficult to write, most difficult to express
herself ; and as she sat thinking how best
she could give — that most dangerous thing —
a half-confidence, the door was pushed open
gently, and Mrs. Dorriman, her face working
with suppressed agitation, entered and took
her in her arms.

Mrs. Dorriman had gone to Torbreck thinking
that she had some news to give which
would change matters very much for Margaret,
and, therefore, not so overwhelmed by the
news of her engagement to Mr. Drayton as
she would otherwise have been.

After tearful inquiries about Grace, and
many gentle exclamations of sorrow and wonder,
she thought she would say something to
Margaret about Mr. Drayton ; she would be
cautious. She was too timid to act upon her

VOL. II. G

own conviction, she would bo guided by her
answer.

^^ Are you really engaged to Mr. Drayton,
my dear Margaret, quite engaged to him ? "

I have promised," said poor Margaret.

'' But, perhaps, my dear, I could tell you
something."

'' You must tell me nothing'' she exclaimed,
quickly. '' I have promised — and — you nest
not make it harder for me."

'then it is hard?"

I am giving up my life ! "

But perhaps, Margaret, what I have to say
may change -"

Nothing can change things now," and
Margaret spoke firmly; ^'I cannot go back,
and he has done so much."

'rit is such a miserable mistake," and poor
Mrs. Dorriman thought how she could say a

word, '^ others would do as much "

'^ But Grace will not have it. No ! do you
think I should have consented, do you think I
would consent, if it had been possible

Oh ! " lie exclaimed and a look of terror came
into her eyes, '' even this is wrong. I should
not speak of it so. Dear ! " she continued,
turning to poor bewildered Mrs. Dorriman,
^^you must help me, and not let me feel that
you do not understand me. I have thought
about it and prayed about it, and 1 must go
through with it." She paused to regain her
self-command, and then added, '^ and there is
no one else."

^' There is no one else," repeated Mrs.
Dorriman, vaguely ; ^' I thought there was
somebody else."

Had she too seen that dawning passion
which Margaret had stifled so vehemently ?
'A burning flush rose to her face, and she
answered angrily, '^ There is no one else."

And then they talked of other things.

After this Mrs. Dorriman held her peace.
She wisely felt that in telling Margaret of Sir
Albert's visit, and dwelling, as she intended to
have dwelt upon, his anxiety to find her — she

g2

might be doing no good, and only making
mischief.

Mr. Drew, the lawyer to whom Margaret
wrote, was accustomed to the vaguest statements
possible, made him, from time to time, by
his feminine clients. But he thought that in the
whole course of his experience he had never
read anything so impossible to understand as
poor Margaret's effusion.

He could only make out two facts. She
wanted a good deal of money made safe in
some way (as she had none herself), she was
going to be married ; then she contradicted
this and said she wanted no money. It was
only her sister.

As she named Mr. Sandford, and Mr. Drew
had a slight business acquaintance with him,
he wrote to him, and received enlightenment.

^^ Miss Margaret Rivers has made up her
mind to marry a man for his money, and
wishes to make sure that his part of the
bargain is put beyond business losses ; the
money is wanted for her sister. Miss Grace

Elvers, and you had better take good care
what you are about, as Mr. Drayton, the man
in question, is as slippery as an eel."

Luckily poor Margaret knew nothing of this
explanation. Mr. Drew came to Torbreck to
see her. He expected to find an elderly
shrewd woman, and he was more surprised
than he could say, when he was suddenly confronted
with Margaret.

His astonishment was so great that he stood
before her speechless for a little while.

'miss Margaret Rivers?" he said, inquiringly.


'^ Yes, Margaret Rivers is my name. I
wrote to you. I am sorry you have had to
take the trouble of coming."

^' Your letter was a little difficult to understand,"
he said, smiling, and no longer wondering
at its vague nature. How could this
young girl enter into explanations with a
stranger ? and he was so amazed to think she
was going to marry Mr. Drayton he could not
get over it. What was the motive ?

But Margaret, having got over the hardest
part of all, her own consent, in a grave, matter-of-fact
way, tried to say what she had to say
plainly.

^^Mr. Drayton has promised my sister

must be safe " this was all she had to say.

'^ And you yourself, Miss Rivers ? "

'^ I want nothing, nothing for myself, but
for her — it must be made safe."

'^ I do not see how that can be done unless
she marries Mr. Drayton. Any money arrangement
must take the form of a marriage
settlement."

She looked at him blankly.

^' Is this so ? is this quite true ? "

'^ It is quite true. There may be a stipulation,
a promise, but, forgive me, Miss Rivers,
that would look like a bargain and might lead
to misconception."

*^ It is a bargain," said poor Margaret, while
her face crimsoned under his gaze ; '^ my
sister, in some way, must be made secure."

"I think I had better see Mr. Drayton's

man of business' he said, finding that she
cared for nothing but what could be done for
her sister.

^^ A clear case of being bought and sold,"
he said to himself as he left her; ^^ what a
pretty, attractive girl I Well. I shall take
care to look sharply after her interests."

It was, however, very difficult indeed to
get Mr. Drayton to come to any arrangement.
He was entirely taken by surprise. Had Mr.
Sandford done this of course it would have been
only right and what might have been expected ;
but Margaret, to give instructions to a lawyer
and to stipulate about money matters ! He
went to her, angry and annoyed.

^' You might trust me," he said.

'how can I trust life?" she said, with a
solemn, grave look ; ^' death is always there,

and if you died my sister might suffer.

I may die It must be so."

He shivered a little.

'' How you go on, talking of death, Margaret
; and you never smile ; you are not like

any bride I ever saw, you look so mournful,
so sad ] do you know you are paying a very
bad compliment ? Will it satisfy you if I
arrange for that precious sister of yours to
have something at my death ? "

'^No/' said Margaret, firmly, 'you know
that I am only marrying you because I cannot
help myself and her. I have never hidden
the truth from you, never; if you insist on
marrying me I have concealed nothing from
you. . . It is not yet too late."

He looked steadily at her.

^' I cannot imagine why I love you so
much," he said, bitterly, ^^ in spite of your
scorn, your coldness, and all else. I think I
am indeed a fool."

^' Why do you care so much?" she said;
'' there are many who might learn to love
you, many girls fairer than I am, I am not
so very fair."

^^ There is but one Margaret for me," he
answered, '' and in time you will love me,"

and yet he had an uneasy sense of inferiority,
of not being able to reach her standard.

Mr. Drew found him a very troublesome and
a very difficult man to deal with, and after all
he could not make the arrangement he wished.
Margaret would be hemmed in with restrictions,
and trustees would have much in their power ;
a very modest sum was secured to Grace in
the event of Mr. Drayton's death. In short,
it came to this ; that both sisters were dependent
upon him during his life, and were provided
for, Margaret very amply, at his death.

Mr. Drew's objections were overruled by
Margaret.

'^ All I wanted was a certainty in the event
of being left alone. Of course, while I live,
while we live, Grace will share everything
with me. Mr. Drayton will allow this."

He said nothing, imagining that he had
promised this. In her inexperience she never
dreamed of a life apart from Grace. Of course
she would be with her ; they would share
everything; that was so completely in her

mind that the poor child never dwelt upon it,
she took it for granted. She received various
letters from old school-fellows when her approaching
marriage was made known, but she
could not answer them. She laid them aside,
and would write afterwards. How could she
answer congratulations ? One letter from a
girl she had liked particularly, remained before
her for a long time.

^^ I am longing to know all about /^^w^," she
wrote. '^ After the intimacy between u^ I
have felt your silence hard ; it is now explained;
you are happy in having found your
ideal already ; I was always afraid that few
could come up to your high standard, and you
are not the sort of character to marry without
both love and esteem."

Poor Margaret ! Already her quick-sight ed-ness,
unblinded by love, showed her Mr.
Drayton as he was— vain, and led by his vanity
alone. He was good-humoured in all else and
inclined to be kind, but if he was not upon
good terms with himself, if he was not flattered,

his good-humour vanished and he became
rude and sulky. And Margaret, among
other things, dreaded his rudeness, and, but
for that prostrate figure so indescribably
dear to her, would have died rather than have
faced life with him. To her it was a moral
death, and not the least painful part of the
sacrifice was, that, while she could see nothing
else, she fell in her own esteem.

It was a forlorn little ceremony altogether.
Mrs. Dorriman, who clung faithfully to the
poor child, went with her to Glasgow, where
Mr. Drayton had made all the necessary
arrangements.

Nothing less like a bride ever went to the
altar. All the time the ceremony went on
Margaret heard nothing, thought of nothing,
but was uttering fervent prayers for forgiveness
and help. There was a hurried farewell.
Mrs. Dorriman saw them into the train — they
were going away for a little time.

As she still stood there Margaret turned her

tearful eyes towards the man who was now
her husband.

'^ When shall we return ? I want to send a
message to my sister."

For all answer he repeated to her the words
she had just uttered,

^^ 'Forsaking all others, cleaving only to
him " and, as he spoke, the train started.

CHAPTER IV.

Grace lay back after parting from Margaret
with a sense of having at length got her foot
upon sure ground ; but there was not that
entire sense of satisfaction which she had
expected, The remembrance of Margaret's
white face and the quivering lips was not
pleasant. Tt was quite Margaret's way to take
high ground about everything — she saw everything
in an exaggerated way ; that came of
having such a poetical temperament, which
was not always a desirable thing.

In spite of these sensible reflections there
was a strong sense-of discomfort, and, though
Grace tried to shake it off and read and talk

to the nurse, that did not help her. The
nurse dwelt upon the beautiful bride her sister
would be ; never for a moment doubting
orange-blossom, white satin, and all complete.

Mrs. Dorriman came home late and went
into Grace's room with signs of tears, due
partly to the sadness of that wedding and
partly to fatigue. Grace's light questions
jarred upon her. She felt that it had been a
terrible sacrifice, and she wished that the
sister who understood it so little could be
made to appreciate it. 'poor darling Margaret!"
said Grace, ^' did she send me no
message ? ''

'' She had no time. 1 heard her ask him
when they should be home— she wished to let
you know. I heard his answer. Forsaking
all others J cleaving only to him. My mind
misgives me, Grace ; that poor child will not
have all she hopes and expects from him."

'' You must not be so doleful, Mrs. Dorian,
it is so very bad for me," said Grace,
peevishly.

'' 1 am sorry," said that poor woman, who
did not wish to hurt her. '^ I was not thinking
of you, I was thinking of Margaret."

^' Every one is always thinking of Margaret''
went on Grace, in a fretful tone. ^' It is the
most extraordinary thing, it is always the same
thing — it is always Margaret."

arrest now, and we can talk by-and-by,"
said Mrs. Dorriman. '^I have much to do;
and about you, Grace, have you any plans ? "

'^ Have I any plans ?" asked Grace, opening
her eyes in deepest astonishment. '' Why, as
soon as I can move, of course, I am to go to
live with Margaret — a lovely villa with trees
and things, close to London ! "

^' Oh, then that is settled," said Mrs. Dorian,
very much relieved. ^^ I did not know;
it will be nice for you to be together."

Yes, it will be nice, said Grace, excitedly.
'^ If you knew how I long to go away and seethe
world."

^' Poor child ! "

'^ Now, Mrs. Dorriman, there you are as

doleful as you can be again. I wish you would
not "

^^ Would not do what?"

^^ Speak as if I were never to be well again''
and Grace, feeble and weak, burst into a violent
flood of tears.

^' I was not thinking of that's said Mrs.
Dorriman, hastily, ^^but life is disappointing,
and if you cling to the world too much you
will feel the many disappointments overwhelmingly."


^^Wait till you see," said Grace, hastily
brushing her tears away.

Mrs. Dorriman left her ; she had not the
courage to tell her her own conviction that
Mr. Drayton might be kind to her in the
matter of money, but as to her living with
him and with Margaret, making it in short
her home, that she thought entirely unlike
him to propose. However, she knew nothing
really about the matter. What had passed between
the sisters, or what arrangements and
stipulations she had made with Mr. Drayton,

were equally out of her knowledge, and she
trusted from Grace's confident manner that
she had something tangible to go upon.

In the meantime Mr. Sandford urged his
sister's return, and the doctor was anxious to
get Grace to a more congenial climate.

She had certainly been better and brighter
lately, and he hoped, if she went somewhere intime,
she might yet get well.

Mrs. Munro was extremely offended by his
way of disparaging the climate. ^^What ails
you that you are for aye backbiting our
climate. If water goes up it's bound to comedown
somewhere."

But it is all coming down here just now,"
he said, laughing, ^' and it is very damp, It
is all very well for you and me, Mrs. Munro,
we are both strong and healthy, but that poor
young lady will never get well unless we can
get her away."

'^ 1 don't know about damp," she said.
*^ With a good house over one's head (and
this is a good house), and fires, what does the

VOL. II. H

weather outside matter ? It's just fidgets,
doctor, and nothing else''

The good doctor could not quite understand
the hitch. Mrs. Dorriman had written to her
brother. She was surprised at Grace's quiescence;
forgetting that in the extreme languor
of early convalescence we accept things without
question, and the fatigue of puzzling over
the future is often spared us.

Mr. Sandford was not at all stingy, but he
had liked Margaret and had wished to be kind
to her, and he blamed Grrace for having upset
all his arrangements, and most of all for this
marriage.

Several things had happened lately which
made him think of Mr. Drayton in a very
different light; and he was angry with Margaret
for having married him, and angry with
himself for having once wished her to do so.

His temper did not improve with age. He
was more irritable than ever. He found fault
with everything, and had Jean been writing

to Mrs. Dorriman she might have added with
truth the word " rampageous '' now.

Mrs. Dorriman appealed to him for money
to take Grace south. ^^ She is ill and you are
not, and in her state of health I feel it would
be cruel to send her away alone'' '

Her letter reached him at a wrong moment.
He had just had what he considered a most
impertinent letter from Mr. Drayton, and he
sat down, and in the roughest language told
his sister plainly that the Drayton might look
after Grace, he would never have anything ^
more to do with her ; and he insisted upon her
returning to him immediately.

Poor Mrs. Dorriman ! She went to see
Grace not knowing how she was to announce
her departure, imagining that the girl would
feel so forlorn without her sister or herself ;
perplexed as to how the doctor's wishes were
to be carried out, and altogether worried and
annoyed.

Grace was in very high spirits. '^ See, Mrs.
Dorriman," she called out, gaily, ^^ I can walk

H 2

quite firmly across the room ! '' and with a
very faltering step she tottered against the
opposite wall.

Her attenuated figure and glistening eyes
filled Mrs. Dorriman with compassion, and it
was with a great effort she said, when Grace,
panting a little, was once more on her sofa,
^^ When did you hear from Margaret last, my
dear ? "

^^ A week ago ; she is so lazy about writing,
and when she writes she tells me nothing,"
said Grace, very pettishly.

'^ Where did she write from ? "

'^ Some place in Austria — just imagine what
luck for her going to Vienna, Paris, Berlin,
and Constantinople e . "

'^ Did she give you any address ? "

*^ Oh, she never does, because she never has
the least idea where she is going to. Mr.
Drayton keeps it all to himself, I fancy. I
have written to her, but I send my letters on
chance. Stay, I think I have her last letter
here, you may see it if you like. Poor Margaret,

she always takes life so very seriously,
she has no sense of fun. I am sure with her
opportunities I should have written a much
longer and a more amusing letter ! "

Mrs. Dorriman read the letter, and her eyes
filled with tears. It was a letter written by
one who has lost all the spring of youth — unhappiness
was on its every page, and the
craving to know that Grace was well and surrounded
with comforts, and that she was happy.
It was a beseeching cry to know if the step she
had taken had been of use to her beloved sister.

'^ Grace," said Mrs. Dorriman, after a moment
or two, '' when you move, as the doctor
hopes, have you money ? "

'^ Money ! My dear Mrs. Dorriman, what an
odd question. I have no money — A few shillings,
that is all."

'' And will Margaret send you some ? Will
Mr. Drayton pay all your expenses ? "

'' Of course he will, now Margaret has married
him. I see what you mean. I had better
write to her about it."

^^ Yes, you had better write." Mrs. Dorian's
face flushed. '^ I wish, my poor child, it
had been otherwise, but my brother is still
offended with you. I am so very sorry, but
he wants me to go home to him''

^^ Does he ? '' said Grrace, indifferently, and
Mrs. Dorriman noticed with a pang that this
news she had thought necessary to break to
the invalid did not affect her at all.

'^ He wants me at once. I do not like leaving
you alone here, Grace, without your sister ;
it will be dull for you and lonely,"

'^ It would be, but you see I am going too''
said Grace. " If I do not hear from Margaret
soon I shall go to London to their house and
wait for them there."

She spoke so confidently that Mrs. Dorriman
was much relieved. With all her compassion
there was so little that was congenial to her
that she never could be affectionate to Grace,
and she herself being of a warm-hearted nature
fancied that the girl must miss it in her. She
was always trying to like her, and failing .

The letter Grace wrote at intervals, and with
some difficulty, reached Margaret after some
delay. She was on the Rhine at Mayence,
tired out with incessant travelling, and most
anxious about her sister. She waited impatiently
for her husband's return, he had
gone out on business.

'^ T have heard from Grace, written after she
had walked across the floor by herself. She is
able to travel now. When can we get home ? ''
she asked, as he entered the little sitting-room.

He laughed a little. '^ So Miss Grace is able
to travel. Where does she intend going to ? "
he asked blandly.

Margaret's face flushed. '' She is coming tous
— she is to live with us''

'^ This is indeed news," he said, laughing —
and how she had grown to hate his laugh!
^' There are two sides to that statement."

'' You cannot surely object to my sister
coming to pay me a visit."

^^ I am afraid I do object — between such a
devoted couple as you and I," he said, with a

sneer. ^^ No third person would find it pleasant.
T do not intend trying it, at any rate''

^' Yon do not mean to say that my own and
only sister may not come to me ? " said Margaret,
her voice faltering.

^^ I do mean it. I married you; I did not
marry your sister also. She is not quite in my
line, and the sooner you understand it the
better."

^^ And poor child, she is ill, and . . . penniless."
Margaret's heart beat to suffocation.
She had married for this one thing, and had
not got what she had considered a certainty.

^^ It is cruel to keep us apart," she said,
choking back her tears, feeling helpless and
miserable.

^^ It is a sad position," he said, with his
hateful little laugh. ^' But perhaps excellent
Mr. Sandford will provide for her."

*^ And you know," said Margaret, indignantly,
'you know that our being at Tor-break
was because Grace could not bear the
position he put her in. She cannot bear him ! "

show unfortunate! Well, you see, I do
not like her at all. Why should I ? She has
never shown me decent civility, and I do not
choose to have her. It is better to be frank

with you. I hate all her d d airs and

graces."

Margaret's tears were falling fast. Stifling
her emotion she summoned up her courage.
She said, "I have never asked you for money,
will you give me some now ? "

'' To send to her— certainly not."

^^You will not give any money," she exclaimed,
in despair.

*• No, I will do nothing of the kind. Now,
Margaret, you had better understand me once
for all. When I married you I intended to
win your love. I did not expect you ever to
give me what I gave you. You have never
once given me a spontaneous mark of affection.
You look as though you were brokenhearted,
and a martyr. Do you suppose that I did not
know that you only married me because that
precious sister of yours had chosen to quarrel

with lier bread and butter? But I did not
care. I thought kindness and affection would
win something in return. I consider that, as
you fail in your side of the bargain, I have
every right to fail in mine." And with one of
his detestable laughs he left her to think over
his words.

Margaret went to the open window and
looked on the garden and the river — brilliant
in the sunshine and seeming to mock at her
despair.

There was that painful grain of truth in his
words that filled her with humiliation. Was
she not justly punished ? She had done
wrong ; could good ever come out of evil ?
She might live long, and all her life she was
to have this terrible companionship.

She clasped her hands together, and tried to
think calmly and prayerfully what she could
do now, when the silence of humanity amidst
the throb and ripple of the river was broken,
and a well-remembered voice was calling herby
name.

'margaret, my Margaret, I have found
you! I am free to tell you the end of my
story. I tried to tell you the beginning. I
love you ! My darling, I love you ! Can you
love me in return ! "

A faint cry burst from Margaret's lips. Fora
few moments the present and all the horrors
of her position fell away from her memory.
He stood beside her, and, reading nothing but
the flood of joy with which she heard his
words in her face, he clasped her in his arms.

Por one delicious moment Heaven seemed
to open to her. She forgot everything but
that he loved her. Then with a cry she pushed
him away from her, and stood hiding her face
in her hands, too wretched, too utterly miserable,
for tears or any outward expression. He
stood aghast; he had seen the joy in her face
and now what did this mean ?

She turned towards him hurriedly ; he must
not stand there ; he must not be left for one
moment in ignorance. With suppressed passion
she told him all, how she had misinterpreted

his words, and how she had tried to
forget him ; of her sister's illness, and of her
own marriage. Once she began to speak the
words rushed from her lips. She told him of
her cruel and bitter disappointment about
Grace, and she asked him wildly to help her.
'' What am I to do ! " she cried. ^^ Help me I "

He heard her with the bitterest feeling
against the man who had used her love for her
sister, only in the end to break faith with her.
It was terrible to him to see Margaret, always
so calm and so self-possessed, in such deep and
terrible agitation. His grief for her was so
powerful that his own sank into nothingness
beside it. He had always thought her great
unselfishness one of her greatest perfections,
but the devotion to her sister was to him quite
wonderful.

In calm tones that did not yet entirely hide
the agitation he fain would conceal from her,
he, upon his side, explained his promise to his
mother, and his journey and her death. Through
all her misery came the clearing away of a

cloud. She had not erred, and he had loved
her!

They stood side by side, silent after that
lifting of the veil from both their hearts, he
noting with agony the transparency which
filled him with alarm.

She had asked him for help, and he would
help her.

'^ Let me have your sister's address," he
said ; '^ there is only one thing I want now to
understand, why did Mrs. Dorriman never tell
you of my visit ? "

Mrs. Dorriman ? "

*' Yes ! Finding I could get no news of you
I went there and saw her. She did not know
where you were, but I let her see how anxious
I was to find you. I let her know I loved you,
Margaret ; did she never speak of me to you''

'^ Never," said poor Margaret, falteringly.
^' Ah ! " she said, as a sudden gleam came to
her memory, '^ I remember now she tried to
tell me something, and I would not listen. I

did not know — how could I know — it referred
to you ? ''

^^ Would it have been too late ?" he asked,
in a low voice.

^^ I do not know'' she said, passing her hand
across her tearless eyes. " I cannot say what I
might have done ; but then I had promised

Is it not hard ?" she exclaimed. ^' Oh !

it does seem hard, to have had happiness
within my grasp and to have lost it ! "

He was inexpressibly affected, afraid of
making things harder for her ; he moved
to go.

'' You will always be to me my highest type
of womanhood," he said. ^' Will you trust
me about your sister ? I will go to England
to-night."

^' Let us say farewell now and for ever," she
said, stretching out her hands, and then as he
wrung them in his she breathed '^ God bless
you," and so passed out of his sight.

Sir Albert lost no time; he knew it was

best, and he made all his arrangements, and
left by the first train he could catch.

His one comfort now would be doing something
for her through her sister. But when
the bustle of the departure was over and he
was ensconced in his railway-carriage he had
time to think of his own most cruel and terrible
trial. Ever since he had begun to know Margaret
his love for her increased. He had
wandered to regain health and strength. Her
image was never out of his mind, and he had
believed he had made things so clear to her
that she was somewhere waiting and expecting
him. He had seen Mr. Drayton; he was just
the sort of man to behave as he had done, and
it was quite terrible to think of that fair and
innocent girl in his power.

He never rested till he got to Scotland. He
went straight to Torbreck, where he interviewed
the landlady. Miss Eivers had gone.
She had gone to London to stay with her
sister.

Sir Albert did not choose to say that her

sister was not there, but he made many
minute inquiries about her health, and left
Mrs. Munro much impressed by his manner,
and the thoughtful remarks he made.

^^ He is a real bonny man," she said afterwards,
'^ and, my certe, he kens how to put
questions. He was as particular as he could
be. Miss Rivers this and Miss Rivers that.
She's a straight nose has Miss Rivers. I'm no
denying it, but she does not follow it. Miss
Margaret's a deal friendlier; weeha-weel, its
a' ordered for the best."

Mrs. Dorriman was much taken aback when
once more Sir Albert was shown into the
drawing-room at Ronton. She was too timid
not to be alarmed by the arrival of a man
who had made no secret of his admiration for
Margaret.

Did he know anything, and what did he
know ? Her expression was so distinctly interrogatory
that he answered it, and advancing
towards her, and not waiting for the usual
conventional greeting, he said, '^ I know all,

Mrs. Dorriman; I have seen her — I have seen
Margaret ! "

Ah ! " said the poor little woman, with a
deep sigh of relief.

'rit has been cruel work," he said, passionately.
'' Why could you not have saved her ? "

'^ I never knew till too late. How could I
save her ? " She spoke startled, and for a
moment thinking that he was right. Then
she remembered — ^^ That unfortunate sister
of hers, Grace, would not allow her to send
for us. I did not know where she was. And
when you left me, you gave me no address ;
even if I had had it I am not sure I should
have written to you. It was then too late.
Nothing could have been done. . . . How is
Margaret ? " she asked, after a moment's
pause.

He did not answer her at once. Then he
said in a broken voice, ^^ I never saw any one
so changed ; she is only a shadow of her
former self."

'god help her! " murmured Mrs. Dorriman.

VOL. II. I

^' It has been terrible for us both'' he said,
hurriedly, in a tone he vainly endeavoured to
make calm ; "we will speak of it once and
never again. She, poor darling, misunderstood
something I said to her at Lornbay. It seems
so strange to think that she did. not see how
I adored her. I was not free to speak to her
quite openly, because when I was very young,
little more than a schoolboy, I got into a
foolish scrape, and my mother made me
promise never to confess my love to any one
without first letting her know it. She understood
the word ' free ' to mean that I was in
some way bound to some one else. Her pride
was in arms, and she seems to have fancied
that she had not rightly understood me. You
can imagine that such an idea worked together
with her passionate wish to help Grace, and
has ruined our happiness."

'^ God help her ! " again ejaculated Mrs.
Dorriman.

^^ All that I can now do is to work for her
sister. Mr. Drayton refuses all help, and will

not receive her, and Margaret is nearly frantic.
I have been to Torbreck. She has gone from
there."

'' But where ? " said Mrs. Dorriman. *^ You
must not judge my brother hardly, Sir Albert,
but, as Grace is at the bottom of poor Margaret's
sacrifice, my brother would not have
her here; he would not help her, understanding
that Mr. Drayton had agreed to do so."

And he refuses also. Well, my first
business must be to find the poor girl, and yet,
Mrs. Dorriman, I may do harm instead of
good, if I make the search in person. Can
you think of no one who would undertake
it?"

Mrs. Dorriman thought in vain. She knew
of no one, and she feared greatly for Grace,
who had little money, no experience, and who
was so self-willed — she would probably injure
her health, already so delicate, by doing a
thousand imprudent things.

Let us ask Jean," she said, with a hasty
explanation of her position ; and Jean, 



monecl to give her advice, which she dearly-loved
doing" — came upon the scene, the picture
of an old Highland servant of the best type,
full as much of respect as of self-respect.

''Jean,'' said Mrs. Dorriman, ^' Mrs. Drayton,
Miss Margaret I mean, is anxious about
her sister. She has left Torbreck, and we
do not know where she has gone. I think you
may help us. Do you know of any one she
could go to in the South ? "

^^ How is Miss Margaret ? I cannot give her
that other name yet," said Jean, addressing
herself directly to Sir Albert Gerald.

^^She is pretty well," he answered, absently;
he was thinking of the pale face, and
trusting that he might trace her sister, and
bring a little comfort and happiness to her
heart, and that the sad wistful look might be
softened and cheered.

^^ Well, ma'am," said Jean, turning to Mrs.
Dorriman, '^ as regards Miss Grace, I am
inclined to think they will know where she is
at the railway station here."

'^ The railway station ? Has she been
here ? "

^' No, ma'am, she has not been here, but she
directed me to send her boxes there a while
ago, and I did so ; and it is my belief that
once she was well, she's not long been parted
from her boxes."

Sir Albert seized his hat, then he remembered
that supposing they had her address,
he must still arrange about some one communicating
with her.

^' If we find her address, what can we do
next ? I will, of course, take any trouble ;
but some one had better go, who might be of
some use to her."

Mrs. Dorriman coloured. She had no means
of her own, and she was not sure that her
brother would furnish any ; otherwise, she was
quite prepared to go any distance, or do anything
she conceived to be helpful.

Sir Albert saw the hesitation, and he said,
anxiously, '^ I hope whoever does undertake

this errand of charity will allow me to help —
in the only way in my power."

^^Sir," said Jean, 'ewe will allow you to
help if we find help necessary. Mrs. Dorian
has plenty of everything to fall back
upon if she needs it in that way. She does
not trail about in velvet, but she has it if she
wants it."

'' Hush, Jean," said her mistress ; '' will you
go yourself to the railway station and make
inquiries, and Sir Albert will wait till you
return, at any rate."

Jean obeyed, and Mrs. Dorriman, turning to
the young man, said, with a heightened colour
and a little pathetic gesture,

'' It may seem strange to you, but, though I
have everything I can possibly want given me
by my brother, I have no command of money.
You are no kin, only a friend, but somehow I
do not feel it so hard to be beholden to you as
I ought."

'' Thank you for those words," he said,
earnestly ; '' you will be doing me a very real

service if you will use my money for this. It
is the only thing I can do," he added sadly.

Jean soon returned from the station, wearing
a little air of triumph,

'^ 'Deed, and was I no just quite right?"
she said; 'miss Grace sent for her things only
yesterday, and I got the man to put the address
down on paper for me : these uncanny English
names are hard to mind on."

Mrs. Dorriman and Sir Albert read it together.


'' The Limes, Wandsworth"'

Mr. Drayton's place'' said Mrs. Dorriman ;
show strange! and you are quite sure? he
refused to allow her to go there."

She spoke in a lowered tone but Jean heard
the words.

^^That would not stop Miss Grace," she
said, with a short laugh ; '^if she's minded todo
anything she's not easy stopped."

Mrs. Dorriman thoughtfully passed the paper
through her hands. How could she put the
case before Mr. Sandford so as to win it?

Each time she spoke of either Grace or Margaret
to him, he lost his temper, and created a
scene that made her ill and nervous for days.
If it would do good she would brave it, but if
it did no good

Sir Albert watched her anxiously. He felt
that, to be of real use to Grace, to her sister,
there must be a womanly hand, and he saw
that he was not sufficiently behind the scenes
to appreciate all the difficulties of this kind,
but timid woman.

He felt so more than ever when Mr. Sandford
came in. He was in such a towering passion
that he could hardly speak : he barely noticed
Sir Albert, but threw himself into a chair and
glared straight before him. He was in that
phase of temper when a man is anxious to
make all his belongings uncomfortable, and, if
possible, put them out of temper also.

Sir Albert would have left, but Mrs.
Dorriman saw that something worse than usual
had happened; she was always frightened
when her brother was with her alone, and

when he was out of temper she was simply
terrified. She made a gesture of entreaty,
which checked the young man's impulse to go
away.

There was a silence which fell like a terrible
weight upon the two, who looked at each other
unconscious of their mutual attraction, but the
look was seen by the master [of the house, and
it set his passion alight. He sprang from his
chair, he poured out a volley of abuse, upon
his sister, Grace, and Margaret, swearing and
using the most terrible language, reducing poor
Mrs. Dorriman to a helpless state of terror and
dismay.

Sir Albert looked at him with the most
supreme astonishment. He now understood
the whole thing ; Grace had been exposed to
this and she had gone., and he could not
wonder at it. He could quite understand now
that Margaret had felt any life was better than
this. In his compassion for them he spoke
aloud his thoughts.

^' No wonder they fled from this," he said,

all unconsciously, as he looked at Mr. Sandford's
wild gestures, with an overpowering
sense of indignation.

Mr. Sandford heard him and understood.
He turned round upon him, and said,

'* You do not know what cause I have for
anger ; it is a just anger. The man who has
married Margaret is a scoundrel and a swindler,
and he is ruined, and he has nearly ruined
me ? "

Before another word could be spoken there
was the sound of an arrival, and, while the
three stood breathless, with all their emotions
of rage and compassion, on either side, held
for the moment in check, there glided into the
room, her head as high as ever, but looking
fatigued and troubled, — Grace Eivers !

^^ I have come back," she said, as she sank
into a chair; ^^I am too tired just now to
explain everything; and," turning to Mrs.
Dorriman, ^^ will somebody pay the cab, for I
have no money."

There was a pause. Mr. Sandford' s rage

had exhausted itself, fortunately for Grace,
and she sat leaning back in her chair and
surveying them all with a keen look of
inquiry.

^' I cannot enter into everything now, but
I have been to Mr. Drayton's house ; he has
sold it, and I have come here because I have
nowhere else to go."

CHAPTER V.

When Mr. Drayton returned on the day that
Sir Albert had seen Margaret, he came home
sorely put out. He had such a complete belief
in himself that it annoyed him to find, as he
did find every day, that the loss of his manager
was in all ways a loss to him. Nothing seemed
to prosper just now, and he was annoyed and
very much harassed. Entering the little hotel
where he had left Margaret, he asked if a
man he had expected to call, had called.

The landlord, who was a stout, comfortable,
little man, with a strong burr in his voice and
a thickness, coming partly from natural guttural

tendencies and partly from beer and pipes,
answered in the negative, but he said that he
thought the gracious lady had interviewed him
in the garden.

Surprised, he went to his wife immediately
and asked if this was true.

Margaret, who had resolved upon telling
him that Sir Albert had been there, and who
had spent much time since his departure in
thinking whether she was bound to tell her
husband what had passed, was taken by surprise,
and a quick flush came into her usually
pale face.

Like many fair and delicate-looking women
she coloured vividly and the flush coloured her
throat. Her husband watched her with a
suspicious and angry frown, very different
from the laughing, mocking one he usually
showed her.

Sir Albert Gerald passed this place accidentally,"
she said, ^'he did not know we
were here. He spoke to me for a little while,
then he went away."

'' Indeed ! and what makes you turn as red
as a peony, because I found this out, eh ? "

'^ You look so strange," she said, frightened
a little by his manner.

^'Do I? Do you suppose I can look
pleased when I see that this man's visit has
such power over your cold and indifferent
nature, and that for him you tremble and

blush, while for me ? Where is this

man ? " and he rose and went towards the
door.

'^ He has gone to England," said Margaret,
gently. ^'^ He passed by the purest accident
and saw me ; he did not know that I was
married. . . . He went away at once."

^^Oh! and w4iat did it matter to him
whether you were married or unmarried ? " he
said, angrily ; ^^ was he your lover ? "

'' I never knew it till " Margaret was

too truthful to shirk a direct question.

^' Well, be good enough to speak ; if you do
not " and he moved close up to her.

His threat gave Margaret courage.

^^I have no wish to hide anything from
you," she said, coldly and with dignity ; '^1
did not know that Sir Albert Gerald cared forme.
I misunderstood something he said tome
about not being free. He did not know
where I was, and yesterday he passed by
accident. He did not know anything. I told
him I was now your wife and . . . ."

^^ And you have cried ever since he left, and
that is why you grow white and red," he said.
^^ Had you known he loved you would you
have married me ? "

'^ Never ! " said Margaret, looking at him
directly.

"Thank you," he said, ^^nowl know you.
I have been a fool all round ! "

He threw himself into a chair and gazed
moodily before him.

'' You married me knowing I had no love
to give," Margaret said, gently ; '^ I told you
myself."

'' You did not tell me you loved some one
else," he said savagely, '' and that is quite

different ; you have deceived me from first to
last!"

^^ I have never wilfully deceived you — and
I did not know it myself," she said. ^^ I
thought it had been but a pleasant break in
my life, and that all was over."

He made her no answer, but as he rose to
leave the room he said, 'you must be ready
to start to-night after dinner. Some bad
news hurries me to England."

'^ To England ! " exclaimed Margaret,
quickly. " Oh, I shall be glad to be at home
once more."

He looked at her for a moment, and then,
throwing his head back, he laughed in his
usual loud way, and, for the first time, the
sound brought relief to her.

She little knew him. She did not know the
morbid intense jealousy that filled him. He
never forgot the smallest slight to himself,
or the tiniest wound offered to his vanity.
He kept these feelings carefully covered up,
but, sooner or later, he brought them forward.

and if he could revenge himself, he did, when
the whole transaction had been entirely forgotten
by the delinquent himself.

Going to England meant being nearer
Grace, from whom she had not heard fora
long time, and she felt less forlorn and
happier than she had done for a very longtime.


Poor child ! She did not recognise the great
difference Sir Albert's words had made to her.
She did not analyse her feelings, but she was
really happier because the sting of having
loved unsought was taken away from her.
She did not realise how much this wounded
and hurt her. Now the pain was lighter, all
was easier to bear.

Margaret had never dwelt much upon the
subject of her husband's wealth, and since he
had broken faith with her, and had refused to
help Grace, she had made up her mind that she
would manage to do so — so soon as she had the
command of money she expected to have, as a
matter of course. She was one of the few

VOL. II. K

women who not only did not care for ornament
but who rather disliked it. She had a
preference for everything simple and fresh,
and considered that all things in the matter
of dress were spoiled by ornamentation and
trimming. She loved soft stuffs that took
graceful folds, and had a dislike to rustling
silks, and the few gowns she had, were remarkable
for their softness, the harmonious
colouring in which no two colours ever entered,
and a certain fitness for her peculiar style.
This outward expression of her sense of what
was pleasant to look at, was in correspondence
with her purity of thought, into which so
little that was mean or small could enter.
She might be what Grace always said she was
exalted and apt to incline to a certain exaggeration
of feeling about all things ; but
everyday things to her seemed of importance,
since they affected the lives of others, and she
had the highest possible conception of the
duties of life in general, and of her own life
in particular. She resolutely put away from

her all thoughts of what might have been,
and resolved to do her best to be a more congenial
wife to her husband. In order to fulfil
these duties she must learn to know him
better, to understand his affairs, and to show
her interest in this occupations.

Mr. Drayton, who at this moment was guarding
his losses and his real position carefully
from the knowledge of every one as far as possible,
was disagreeably surprised by her developing
what he considered curiosity on the
subject. He imagined directly that in someway
she had received a hint, and was proportionately
alarmed and annoyed.

He found it useless to try and give her
superficial explanations, which were generally
inconsistent. She was so completely unprejudiced,
and her real interest lay so completely
outside those things, that her critical faculty
was utterly impaired, and she demonstrated
his fallacies with a quickness which amazed
him. She had all the acuteness he was wanting
in and he was forced to confess to himself

k2

that had it not been too late, she might have
given him valuable help.

But he did not understand her. and he mistrusted
her ; consequently he gave her no real
confidence, and indeed upon more than one
occasion he tried to mislead her.

From that moment she never asked him
another question. She had done what she conceived
to be her duty, and the result was to
lower him for ever in her eyes. She was indeed
a severe young judge, as many of her
discoveries were ^' in the way of business' and
might have been made to bear an elastic interpretation
; but she was conscious that this outcome
of her sense of duty was destroying
every chance of forbearing with her husband's
peculiarities, and, if so, she must resign herself
to not understanding ; she gave him no more
trouble, and he was equally incapable of
comprehending the withdrawal of her interest
as he was of its origin.

Without a soul to speak to, without any real
interest in her life, Margaret did what many

a woman before her has done, where there has
existed an unusually active brain and no outlet
for thought in any other direction. She
began to write, and her sense of harmony, and
the fervid and poetical temperament she
possessed, drove her to writing in metre.

Not always. She sometimes wrote down
her impressions of character, of scenes — she put
down those rapid and subtle changes of feeling
about things animate and inanimate that
received life and colour from the mood of the
moment. She found so great a relief from
this occupation that it gradually absorbed her.
It was like pouring out her very soul to a
friend, who could never wound her or disappoint
her.

But she never conceived that there was any
danger in it. All was carefully destroyed or
locked away. She had many lonely hours and
a constant struggle with herself. But for this
occupation she would have suffered more.
The moment a passionate grief or sorrow
can find expression it obtains relief, it is the

being pent up and choked back that gives intensity.


She had known love (such as he required) to
be impossible as regarded her husband, but she
had thought esteem and a certain regard enhanced
by his business ability, was within her
reach. She now discovered that he was not
true, that he had no great capacity or clearness
of understanding, and that his standard in all
and everything was as low as it could be.

This discovery was not so much a shock to
her as an excuse for her not caring more for
him. She had been guided by instinct to a
right judgment of his character ; and there
was a sense of having understood him from
the first, which was not without its gratification.


All this went down on paper — as a critical
essay it was admirable, trenchant, concise, and
to the point — but it was a terrible picture
judged dispassionately, and, as Margaret
finished it, she hastily put it into her blotting-book
; she felt troubled and guilty when her

husband called her, and she resolved to
destroy this record of her inmost convictions.
She had perhaps been wrong in writing it,
even for her own eye. Then they left that
evening.

The journey was hurried over with small
regard to her comfort and convenience, but
Margaret heeded nothing ; the thoughts of
once more being within reach of Grace supported
her through fatigue and all else.

She was quite aware as regarded her
husband that had she chosen to flatter him,
and had she only been able to stoop) a little,
she might have ruled him, but her principle
was too high for this, and she made a point
of being honest with him to her own loss.

When they reached London it was yet
early in the morning, and they went, greatly
to her sm-prise, to a small and very second-rate
hotel in the City, where everything was
dingy and mean.

^^Are we not going home?" Margaret
asked, astonished.

Mr. Drayton laughed uneasily.

*^ The truth is that there are some people
in my house."

Oh ! it is let," said Margaret, in a tone
of disappointment. '^ Then what are we todo?"


^^ We might take lodgings — they must not
be far from here, and then we can see '*

He turned on his heel and left her.

When she had rested, she started in a cab to
look for lodgings — a weary quest — and all she
saw near that part of London were so dingy
and so dirty that she returned to the hotel in
despair. Her husband came in looking so
white and so utterly broken down that she
could not imagine what had happened ; but
he would tell her nothing.

The landlady to whom Margaret spoke
suggested some rooms in the country close to
a station.

^^ As you think so much of cleanliness and
fresh air, you had better go there, ma'am."

'^Itis only for a little while — my husband

let his place and cannot turn out his tenants
before their time is up," said Margaret,
happily unconscious what a falsehood this was.

She liked the rooms ; and then, when they
paid their bill and were leaving, her husband
made her understand a little how things were.

Throwing a handful of silver on the table
he exclaimed, angrily,

^' There ! that is every penny 1 have in the
world."

Margaret stared at him — want of money
had never yet presented itself to her in connection
with him. She did not now understand
him literally, but she was startled.

That evening, cheered by the bright cleanliness
of the little cottage at Chiselhurst to
which they had removed, she asked him to
tell her what was wrong.

Then he told her*!

have lost everything!" he said. "I
have not a shilling in the world left, except
that money settled upon you. I am ruined —
I do not suppose I shall have anything to

live upon at all," and he laid his head upon
his arms and cried like a child.

'' Is there nothing I can do ? " faltered
Margaret.

^^Yes!" he said. ^' You can go away,
Mr. Sandford will take you — you can go.
Our married life has been a short, if it has
not been a merry, one'' he said, bitterly, and
he burst into a laugh so wild that Margaret
left the room.

She wrote a long letter to Mr. Sandford ;
understanding him too well to appeal to him
for assistance, she asked him to come and
look into everything.

'' I know a little of my husband's affairs,
very little, but what I know convinces me
that all cannot be so completely lost as he
thinks ; I fancy that, unduly elated at times, he
is just now unduly depressed ; and your clear
brain will unravel much — besides, my husband
is not well."

This invitation followed Grace's abrupt
appearance at his house ; and Mr. Sandford.

who was, to a certain extent, involved in Mr.
Drayton's fall, was content to obey the summons
; more than content, there was much that
required explanation, and it was a temptation
he could not resist.

He was also pleased to have an opportunity
of consulting a good doctor about himself.
He was unwell and irritable even beyond his
normal irritability ; and felt ill and completely
out of sorts when Mrs. Dorriman met him
at breakfast, with a speech carefully arranged
to do Grace good and avoid hasting his
susceptibilities ; she found the question of
Grace's remaining in his house had sunk
into a question of little importance, and that
her little speech, like many another, was not
required.

He left Renton, soothed by Margaret's letter
to him, and full of bringing her back with him.
Of course she would leave Drayton, now he
could no longer support her, and he should
have her again. Grace he never remembered.

When that young lady woke in the morning

she felt surprised to hear all so quiet, and,
ringing her bell, she asked Jean, who answered
the bell, why all was so still, ^^ Is
every body dead and buried ? " she said,
laughing.

Eh ! Miss Grace, we was to keep quiet
for you ; you looked so ill last night, Mrs.
Dorriman and I have been saying ' whisht ! '
all the morning, to let you sleep. Shall I
bring you some tea ? "

'^ If you will," said Grrace ; her tone was
indifferent, but Jean saw that her eyes had a
wistful look in them.

^^What is it, my bairn?" the old woman
said, her kind heart warming towards the poor
girl, so evidently hovering at the gates of
death.

^^ It is nothing," said Grace, with a pitiful
little laugh, '^ but no one has offered to do anything
for me for a long while."

Jean understood, and, when she took in the
tea, Mrs. Dorriman accompanied her.

Some women are distinctly born with a gift

for nursing, and Mrs. Dorriman was one of
these women. Grace, weak and feeble, worn
out by the journey, the want of rest and
comfort of the last few weeks, was nursed
as few are nursed.

She was too weak to wonder about anything.
She never asked for Mr. Sandford, and only
once for Margaret. She lay there in the place
she had so hated, grateful now for its shelter.

She touched lightly upon her experiences
during that interval when she had left 
and had gone to London to see the
world, and Mrs. Dorriman was too wise to
question her.

Mr. Sandford only wrote once, and that was
a short note to his sister, ^' Margaret refuses
to leave her husband," he said, '^ so you
need not expect her."

^' I never thought she would," murmured
Mrs. Dorriman to herself, to whom it had
never occurred as possible.

At Chislehurst, in the small place called
by courtesy a villa, Margaret had at first

to face her husband's anger. Nothing could
have been more hateful to him than this
inquiry into his affairs Margaret had requested
Mr. Sandford to make, and yet he had
no reason to give against it, and it was natural
that Mr. Sandford should act for Margaret.

Grace's return was a fresh and a most
painful surprise for Margaret. She realised
now that she might have saved herself ; if
Grace could of her own free-will seek shelter
at Mr. Sandford' s hands, she might have been
urged to do so before, and so her sacrifice
might have been unnecessary — might ? would
have been. But once this reflection was fought
with, she was glad that her sister, still so
delicate, was with Mrs. Dorriman.

In the meantime Mr. Sandford and his unwilling
assistant, Mr. Drayton, waded through
a mass of papers and accounts ; and various
transactions came to light that reflected no
credit on Mr. Drayton's ability, and still lesson
his honesty. Some of his acts had been
bad, and some were the action of a madman ;

and were to Mr. Sandford's cool Scotch
caution and clear head utterly incomprehensible.
He made few remarks, however,
betraying his sentiments only by a secret
and sudden clench of his hand, as though it
might be a relief to knock down something or
somebody.

It was so difficult, also, to get at the exact
truth of anything ; there were endless memorandums
but nothing to tell what these referred
to — a contemplated purchase or to one completed.


When all was known, things were better
than Mr. Drayton had at first feared, in sofar
that a few hundreds a year were left him,
but only that.

Mr. Sandford had an interview with Margaret
; he thought her looking ill, and he
wanted her to go to Scotland with him, to see
Grace. She referred to her husband, and
asked him if he would mind her going.

^' Mind it! Will that matter?" he said,
curtly.

'^ I wish to go if you can spare me," she
said gently.

'' I can spare you," he said, very roughly ;
^' if you wish to go, that is quite sufficient.'

'' I wish to see my sister. I will not stay
away long ; and whilst I am away will you
not arrange something r Are you going to
sell your house — you like it, I know, and the
garden?"

She spoke, wishing to cheer him. Mr. Sandford
had told her that he was not obliged to
sell this place. She did not quite understand
her husband's remaining so downcast, and in
such an odd state, and she was vexed that Mr.
Sandford should see him in so disagreeable a
light.

After some discussion it was agreed that he
should go to the Limes, and have everything
put in order for his wife's return. But as they
parted she caught his expression, and it made
her so uncomfortable that she felt vexed at
having left him just then.

This impression left her after a little while,

she sat very silent all the long journey, and
Mr. Sandford had on his side much to think
of.

When they arrived at Renton, Grace was ina
state of excitement almost painful to witness.
She laughed, she cried, she moved about her,
till Margaret persuaded her to be quiet and to
go to bed. She feared all manner of things she
hardly knew what ; and, longing for rest and
quiet herself, she felt most thankful that Mrs.
Dorriman had given her another room. Next
day she found she had still a battle to fight
with Mr. Sandford.

^^ Now your husband is not in a position todo
anything for your sister," he said, '^ you
will stay here."

Stay for a time, yes, but my husband's
losses will make him wish to have me with
him more than ever, I think. He did not wish
me to stay away ? "

''Oh! he wants you fast enough, but you
cannot pretend to care for him; and, now that
he has been such a fool as to squander a mag-vol.

II. L

munificent fortune, what can your object be in
going back to him ? "

'' To do my duty," said Margaret, simply.

'' Your duty ! To my thinking, as he has
not behaved at all well, you are not bound to
go back to him. Has he behaved well ? I
ask you plainly."

Margaret did not answer the question.

'' Nothing can absolve me from doing what
I feel to be right."

She spoke very quietly, and Mr. Sandford
said no more at the time, but he constantly
renewed the subject, and Margaret was weary
of repeating her own views of her position.

It was hard enough to find him so bent upon
her staying, it was harder still to parry the
urgent attacks made by her sister.

'^ If you go I shall die," Grace said one day,
after a long and weary argument, in which
poor Margaret had tried to show her a higher
sense of duty.

'' Why do you try me so ? " Margaret said
at length. ^' Can you never see things

seriously ? Oh, Grace, can you conceive it
possible for me to take a solemn vow and
make light of it afterwards ? "

^^ But you cannot pretend that you love that
man, Margaret ? "

"• Therein lies my sin — and my punishment,"
the young wife answered with a quivering lip.
^' We cannot command our affections — that I
know, but we can check them, and we can at
any rate try and not fail in other things."

Grace did not like the grave tone she spoke
in ; she had rallied from the fatigue of her
journey, and amused her sister often by her
endeavours to win a smile from Mr. Sandford.
She was as usual reckless in her speech, and
the only difference Margaret could see was
that she did not try to provoke him ; on the
contrary, in all her sallies now, there was a
certain subtle implied deference to his wishes,
new and rather winning.

The same sad reflection came often to Margaret.
Seeing Grace so contented now, she
quite forgot her misery at the prospect of such
la

home before her; and she was forced to see
that she had ruined her own life on insufficient
grounds. There was so much pain in this, and
Grace's wild spirits so jarred upon her, that
after a few days had passed away she
announced her departure.

It was only then that she found how Grace
clung to the idea of going with her.

'' Why cannot I go with you? Surely Mr.
Drayton cannot be so barbarous as to separate
us now."

^' I do not know what arrangements he has
been able to make, dear. I must go alone,
first."

^^ If you go alone I shall never follow : I
know so well what it will be."

^' I will do my best ; surely you know that
I will do my best ; you know it is my dearest
wish."

"■' Yes, but you know, my dear old thing,
that you have not got my power of managing
people. Now look at old Sandford. Swore I
should never live here again : anathematized

me, I believe, and sent his poor little sister
into fits, such was the violence of his language,
and, after all this, I return ; I walk in.
I am no hypocrite, and I say quite quietly that
T only came because I had nowhere else to go,
and the lion became a lamb."

'^ You do not understand Mr. Drayton."

^' Is he worse than the old bear here ? " and
Grace made a comical face of dismay.

Margaret did not smile. She forced herself
to speak plainly.

^^ It is difficult to know what is right sometimes,"
she said, thoughtfully. '^I never
could tell an untruth, and sometimes telling
the truth does not make things smooth. Grace,
my darling, I married Mr. Drayton to give
you a home and comforts you so sorely needed.
He knows it was onli/ for that, and he resents
it, and he will never let me have you, never."

She sobbed, and she was not given to
tears.

Grace stared at her in stupefied astonishment.


^^ You do not mean to say that you let him
find this out ? "

"No, I told him. I told him before I
married him. How could I act a lie ? "

'^ And he married you after this frank explanation,
and now turns round upon you !
How like a man ! " and Grace , who had a
most limited acquaintance herself with any
men, looked supremely scornful. " Well, my
dear Margaret, I shall not go with you, but I
shall follow you."

But Grace, darling "

But Margaret, darling. I will not hear a
single word. I shall choose my own time and
arrive in my own way — but go I will."

She laughed Margaret's scruples to scorn
and turned the subject.

Grace was so gay and bright, so overflowing
with good-humour, that all the inmates of
Renton Place were taken by surprise, save and
except Jean, who answered Mrs. Dorriman's
expression of satisfaction by one short sentence,

Milk aye bubbles before it boils."

And Mrs. Dorriman felt angry, and accused
her faithful old servant of prejudice and superstition,
to which Jean made not the slightest
reply.

Margaret was a little uneasy; her experience
of Grace's wilfulness made her dread some
step that would bring happiness to neither of
them. But she heard no more of her projected
visit, and by degrees she began to hope that it
had merely been a wild way of talking.

One great change was brought about by her
sister's delicacy. Mr. Sandford, talking to the
doctor one day about himself — Grace refused
to see any doctor there — alluded to the eldest
Miss Rivers as being delicate.

'^ We can never get her to go out ; she says
it tires her ; she was always indolent''

^^ Or delicate," said the doctor ; ^^ she should
not tire herself ; you should send her out
driving."

^^ Out driving ! Why there is no carriage."

*^ No reason there should not be' said the
doctor, pleasantly.

The new idea rather took possession of Mr.
Sandford and before many days were over
Grace was told that she was to go out, and
that a carriage was at her service.

Mr. Sandford's gruff ways of announcing this
fact did not prevent her seeing the real kindness,
and she thanked him, while tears
glistened in her eyes and she had a jest on
her lips.

Margaret saw her revive under the influence
of the fresh air. She had more than once
postponed her journey, greatly against her
own wishes, and yielding only to Grace's
urgent prayers. At length she left Eenton,
with a heavy heart for her sister. She had
too great an affection for her not to see that
the excitement and gay manner were all, in
reality, part of her illness ; she dreaded the
worst ; each time she tried to talk to her
seriously Grace either laughed her to scorn or
cried till she made herself ill, and no good was
done.

As she went south sie tried to face the

duties that awaited her — to remember only
that her husband was her husband.

It was late and dark when she arrived in
London, and when she got to Wandsworth she
tried in vain to make out her surroundings.
She could see nothing but the lamp-posts; and
the scanty light the lamps gave, and which
spread such a little distance, served to make
the gloom between them darker.

She arrived at length at the Limes, so called
because a couple of lopped lime-trees stood
sentinel on either side of the gate.

No one was there at the door to meet her.
At length an untidy-looking woman arrived —
seemed surprised to see her — waited with
visible impatience whilst she paid the cabman,
dragged in the slender luggage and banged the
gate, showing young Mrs. Drayton the way
up a flagged footway between some straggling
laurels, and into a cheerless unfurnished little
stone hall.

^' Is Mr. Drayton here ? Did he not expect

me ? " asked the poor young wife, her heart
sinking within her.

''Oh! Mr. Drayton's there. He said nothing
of your being expected."

She opened a door, and sitting in front of a
table littered with papers sat her husband, his
face buried in his hands

He looked at her with a vacant smile — he
did not know her.

He was terrible to look at, so unkempt and
so neglected looking. He must be ill, very
ill!

The fire was out and the room untasted and
unwept, a close smell she did not recognise
filled the room.

She persuaded him to lie down on the sofa ;
she got the fire lit ; threw open the window,
put on the kettle for hot water, and wrote a
note, which she sent by the woman to the
nearest doctor.

He came and looked down upon the prostrate
figure.

Is he very ill ? " asked Margaret, anxiously.


'' No, madam," he answered, with a strange
expression on his face, ^^ he is only very
drmik."

CHAPTER VI.

Margaret stared at the doctor, who so calmly
announced this appalling fact to her, with
widely opened eyes and a blanched face.

Ignorant of her history, he was startled to
find so young a creature in such a position,
and he said, impelled to respect by her whole
air and manner, '^ This is news, and very unwelcome
news, to you ? "

^' I have this moment arrived from nursing
my sister in Scotland," she said, hurriedly.
"My husband has been alone. . . All is very
wretched ; can you tell me where I could hear
of a nurse, I suppose, and — servants ? "

^' You must have a male nurse," he said.

'' I will send you in a man-servant I know of,
and tomorrow things will be better." He
stayed with her a little while, lost in astonishment
over her beauty, her grace, and the
extraordinary contrast existing between her
and the man she called her husband.

'' I shall be afraid — to-night. He might be
ill''

'^ Oh ! you must not be left alone with him,"
he answered, and then, noting her weariness
and pallor, he said, ^'If you will go and have
some refreshment I can wait here, and when
I leave I will send you some one."

She thanked him, and went to see if there
was any room she could take possession of.
To her relief the rooms upstairs were all furnished
; and when she had bathed her face and
had some slight refreshment she went downstairs
again.

'^ I may tell you that my own conviction
is that this terrible business is not a habit,"

said the doctor, as she entered. " Mr. "

looking at her for the name which lie supplied,

has not any of the signs of an habitual
drunkard. He has had something now which
has had a terrible effect upon him ; when that
effect is over he will perhaps never relapse. Of
course, I speak from imperfect knowledge,
but I think I am right."

Poor Margaret could not answer him. She
saw him go with a feeling akin to despair.
She sat looking at the fire, and then at the
man she had vowed to honour — and obey.

She rose hurriedly from her seat and rushed
to the open window, suffocating with the agony
and horror of it all. Was this to be her life ?

She had sinned, and this was her punishment
; and she was so young, so very young.
She had, perhaps, a long life before her. How
she shrank from this prospect, and from
another confronting her then. Tears came ; and
kneeling before the window she allowed them
to fall. Never was any girl more wretched,
never was any more forlorn, than this poor
child ; helpless, lovely, and endowed with many
gifts she was as yet all unconscious of.

She was roused by a man's step on the pavement
leading to the house. She had not heard
him ring, but he entered ; a stern, grave man,
with eyes accustomed to control the weak will
of others, accustomed to see scenes far worse
than this — far more terrible.

He asked to be shown Mr. Drayton's bedroom,
and then he turned to Mrs. Drayton,
\\ ho stood still watching : " You can sleep
without anxiety, madam," he said, respectfully ;
^^ I will look after this poor gentleman'' And
Margaret thanked him, and fled to her own
room, where she locked herself in and wept
and prayed by turns, and finally slept.

The sun shone brightly into her room next
day, when she opened her weary eyes in all
the dim consciousness of a heavy trial awaiting
her.

She rang, and had her breakfast brought
upstairs (such as it was), and her luggage.

The Limes was a pretty place — large fora
suburban villa. There was an extensive
lawn behind, and flower-beds ; but beyond the

shrubbery, and all round the place, was a high
brick wall, on the top of which, in spite of a
height which seemed to forbid such a possibility,
was a quantity of broken glass to keep
out intruders. This wall destroyed all Margaret's
happiness, she thought it made the
place seem like a prison.

She dressed and went downstairs, and was
met by the man who had come in the previous
evening. Mr. Drayton was better, but it was
wiser not to see him just yet, he said, firmly
but respectfully ; and poor Margaret felt
afraid he might see too plainly upon her face
that this prohibition was a relief.

When the doctor called, which he did soon,
he told her he had been asked by his wife to
say she would gladly be of use, and could
recommend servants : and all that day she was
busy seeing them and arranging matters a little.

In a few days her husband walked into
the dining-room ; greeted her laughingly, as
though she had only just returned ; and was
apparently as well as ever.

But she noticed that the man-servant, who
had replaced the first person, paid no attention
to him when he called for wine, and that
he provided him with a weak dilution from the
side-board.

The days passed on in monotonous regularity,
Margaret's happiness consisting of not
seeing her husband ; her misery, when she did.
She got books and read, and she cultivated her
flowers ; and tried to resign herself to her life.
But it was impossible for her fervent and
passionate nature to be resigned. Though she
had herself put on this yoke, her anguish was
no less.

She often tormented herself by wondering
whether love would have outlived this terrible
experience ; surely the sincerest love would
have received its death-blow.

Some months had passed when Margaret
lived through a time in which death seemed
very close at hand, and had her baby in her
arms. She had not looked forward to this
happily, but when it came, all motherhood

VOL. II. M

awoke in her nature ; all her love, pent up,
and finding no outlet in another direction,
flowed to this helpless and feeble creature.
She lavished endless caresses upon it ; she
lived for it ; she worshipped it.

Her letters to Grace, so scanty and so bare
of any information, were now full of her infant,
its progress, and its wonderful intelligence.

Mr. Drayton showed no feeling but that of
jealousy in connection with it ; but Margaret
did not mind. It slept in her room, and she
devoted herself to it.

Up to this time Mr. Drayton had never
again given her cause for fearing him.

Even the experienced servant pronounced
him as well as any one, and he resumed his
usual occupations.

One night Margaret was upstairs with her
child — late.

There had been a thunder-storm, and the
thunder was still growling in the distance.
Rain came on, and as Margaret sat by her little

one she felt only natural pity for any wayfarers
on such a stormy night.

How it poured, and how dark the night
was ! She closed the shutters for fear of the
baby's slumbers being disturbed by the loud
splashing of the rain upon a lower roof of an
outhouse, and was taking up her book again,
when her husband walked into the room, looking
perfectly wild, a paper in his hand. With
great difficulty she got him to go down stairs
with her, calling her nurse to go to the child.

Cautious, and seeing how frightfully excited
he was, she sat down near the bell, and tried
to speak to him quietly.

But she was frightened when she saw that
the paper he held was the record of her opinion
of his character, written in Germany — that
she had meant to destroy, and had long forgotten.


^^So, madam," her husband said furiously,
'^ this is your candid opinion of me." He
spoke in a tone of concentrated rage,

M 2

^^ It was written long ago," faltered Margaret.


'^ Oh, it was written long ago. Well, now I
know your opinion of me I shall alter my
conduct towards you — you sneaking . . . . "

He came towards her. Margaret, frightened,
rang the bell, and the sound was to her surprise
repeated outside. There was a commotion
in the hall. Before she could speak Grace,
wet, wearied, but with all her accustomed nonchalance,
stepped into the room.

Before the sisters could clasp each other Mr.
Drayton rushed between them furious. The
sight of Grace, whom he hated, drove him to
frenzy, and the servant entreated her to goas
he did his utmost to restrain him.

eyes, you had better go, darling," sobbed
Margaret.

^'But you will not remain here, you will
come too," pleaded Grace, panting.

'^ Oh, Grace, my child ! I cannot leave it —
I cannot risk moving it."

She wrote the doctor's address in pencil, and

saw her sister go, resolved that she would go
and see her the next morning.

'' The doctor will help you, Grace, and if
you get some nice rooms I will manage for
you."

She saw the frail figure in the cab, and,
struck by the forlornness of her departure, she
sent a servant with her. Then she went upstairs,
and carefully locking the door tried to
face this new and terrible complication.

What was she to do ?

For the first time now she was really
frightened. Her husband's expression had
been so full of malice. How could she go on
living in this way ?

She thought long and deeply about it, and
resolved that next day she would take baby to
see Grace, leave it with her, and go and consult
some clever lawyer as to what was possible
for her to do. In her ignorance and inexperience
she thought that the fact of his drinking
would free her. She had yet much to
learn.

Next day Mr. Drayton was not out of his
room, and the discreet man-servant advised her
to make haste and go out before he was up.

'^ He has been very troublesome and violent, '^
he said, ^^ and you had better not see him.
He's got a turn against you just now, and how
he got anything completely passes me. I have
been watching him like a cat."

In a short time Margaret, with her nurse
and baby, went off to see Grace, and much to
her annoyance did not find her alone. Paul
Lyons was there, full of sympathy, but sympathy
expressed with very little tact; and
while wishing to be a real friend — indeed,
longing to hold that position — he wounded
Margaret's pride by the way in which he
allowed himself to speak to her of her husband.

She carried her point, however, and taking
the train to London she went to a lawyer she
had heard of, knowing no one herself. Her
visit there was productive of no comfort to
her.

Mr. Sprats was a busy man, and looked upon

all feminine clients in the light of obstructions.
This one was very pretty, but an obstructions
nevertheless.

^^ How can I serve you, madam ? " were his
first words, and Margaret did not quite know
how to state her case.

She looked at him for some moments, and
his patience, not very unnaturally, began to
give way. He wore blue spectacles, a circumstance
which reduced every one to the same
hue as regarded complexion, which was at the
same time a drawback and a safeguard. Impelled
to speak by his evident impatience, Margaret
asked him with a trembling voice, '^ If a
man drinks, can a wife leave him ? ''

^VBy mutual consent If he ill treats her she
can perhaps do so — by arrangement. Madam,"
he said, softening a little - a very little — at the
soft pleading tones of her voice, 'all you say
to me is confidential — state your own, and not
an abstract case. Does your husband drink ? "

'^ Yes," said poor Margaret.

'' Does he illtreat you when he is drunk ? "

'' No," said the poor child, trembling — ^4ie —
he frightens me."

'^ Ah! you see the law recognizes cruelty,
and another thing, as a cause for legal separation,
or even a divorce, but the fact of a man's
being a drunkard is not taken into account."

'^ Not taken into account?" said Margaret,
repeating his words in strongest surprise''

No. So little does this fact — a very terrible
fact — tell against a man in the eyes of the
law, that, though you are too young to have
children, supposing you had children, and that
you left the father, the law gives the children
to him and not to you — they remain with him,
they do not go with you."

God help me ! " she murmured, fervently,
her heart standing still in the great shock of
this announcement. And if she had left him,
as she had once thought of doing, her baby
might have been kept from her.

'^ Then you cannot help me ! "

'' I am afraid not," he said, not unkindly ;
the law as regards the rights of mothers is

a little one-sided— a little unjust, I allow, but
till they are altered "

'' Good-bye," said Margaret, seized now
with a sort of terror, lest something should
have happened to her infant during her absence
— she felt so far from it, she must hurry
back.

*^ Good-bye, madam," said the old lawyer,
seeing before him somebody not usual in his
experience. '' If your husband ever strikes
you we might have a case."

'' And my baby ! "

'' Good gracious — a baby ! You have an
infant ? you look so very young," he said, in a
tone of apology. '' Ah, well, you see, we need
not go into that question just now''

She went down stairs utterly broken down.
She had always clung to a belief that if things
got very bad she would be able to go. She
had had a sort of blind belief that the laws of
her country — boasted of so often, and the outcome
of so much intellect and ability — were
there to fall back upon and to protect her.

She stopped to take breath and gather herself
together for a moment, and she was just
moving away from the door when some one
passed in a hansom, — in another moment he
had pulled up short, jumped out, and dismissed
the cabman. Then he was beside her, and in
the moment of her deepest anguish Sir Albert
Gerald stood beside her.

She was utterly miserable, too much crushed
to feel surprised. He saw that she was quite
unfit to be spoken to, that she had sustained
some great shock, and he tried to think rapidly
what was best for her.

'^ I wish to go back to my sister," she said
at length in a low voice. ^^ Will you take me
there ? "

He called a cab and put her into it, and got
in and told the man to drive to the station.

What was the meaning of all this? She
said her sister, not her husband. Had she left
her husband ? He was longing to know all,
and yet he could not ask her anything.

^' You know you can depend upon my friendship,"

he said earnestly to her, and the kindness
of his tone, the care he took of her, everything
contrasted with the misery of her home, and
she lay back in the railway carriage with great
tears unconsciously rolling over her face. He
saw her safe to her sister's door, and there he
left her, anxious not to increase her difficulties,
but determined to be at hand should she require
help.

'^ Here is my address," he said, as he gave
it to her. '^ At any moment I am ready to
serve you, and I trust and hope you will not
refuse me this one thing left for me to do —
let me be of some use to you''

^' Thank you," said Margaret, gratefully.
'' If I go for help to any one I will go to you."
And as she left him her smile of perfect confidence
went to his heart.

Grace could not understand her sister's wild
rapture when she once more held her baby
in her arms. ^' I nearly lost you, oh, my
darling ! " she heard her murmur, and she

lavished endearments upon it ; and she seemed
to hear nothing, see nothing, but it.

'' A round chubby-faced baby, with no particular
anything to distinguish it from other
babies," was Grace's way of putting it.

Margaret had sustained so severe a shock
that she was neither pleased nor displeased
when Mr. Lyons appeared again, ready and
anxious to walk to the Limes to see her home,
and to try and have leave to call upon her.

As they drew near the place, however, Mr.
Drayton was on the step (with his servant)
looking out for his wife.

He was horribly afraid she had gone, and
now that he was himself again he could not
remember what had passed. His servant could
not or would not remind him of anything, and
the vague feeling of fright at having said or
done something terribly violent, filled him with
dread. But all these remorseful feelings were
swept away when he saw Mr. Paul Lyons asher
escort, the nurse and baby bringing up the
rear.

She turned abruptly when she came up to
him, and, as he slammed the heavy gate behind
the small party who entered, a thrill of fear
passed through poor Margaret's heart.

She felt as though a prison door had closed
upon her.

Alas ! could she have looked forward and seen
the real future lying before her, how far, far
deeper had been her anguish — how agonized
her feelings !

She went up stairs with her baby. She had
seen her husband turn into his sitting-room downstairs,
and she stayed till dinner was ready,
then she met him.

He was silent and sullen during dinner, and
she tried in vain to get him to speak.

It was a dismal meal. Margaret was tired
by her unwonted exertions, and frightfully
depressed by the news she had heard, and Mr.
Drayton was jealous and miserable and full of
plans of vindictive revenge, his wife's written
opinion of him rankling in his heart.

Next day fresh complications arose. Grace

sent her sister a note asking her if she could
pay for the attendant and various luxuries
she had had. '^ I don't think I told you that
I had a violent tiff with old Sandford when I
left him, so of course I cannot ask him for
money. Will you send it to me to-day,
please ? "

Margaret had spent the very little she had
in her yesterday's expedition ; but she thought,
though her husband would not have her sister
in the house that he would not mind helping
her. He had been generous enough when they
were at Torbreck.

'* Will you please give me a cheque ? '' she
said to him when they met.

'' What for ? ''

^^ I want to pay some things for my sister.
You will not allow her to come here. She is
not well enough to go back to Scotland. She
wants the money."

'does she?" he said. 'then she may
want it ! Not one single farthing of my money
shall she have, that I swear ! " and he thumped
his hand down upon the table with violence.

^' What am I to do ? " asked his wife, in a
tone of distress.

^' What do I care ? I feed and clothe you
because you are my wife. I told you before
I have not married your sister, and I will have
nothing to do with her."

^' I must go and see her, then, and make
some arrangement for her," said Margaret,
turning away.

^^Not so fast' he said, while a laugh rang
through the room that made her shiver again.
You do not go out again without me. I can
tell you I am not going to allow a wretched
stick of a fellow to run about with my wife
any more— no, no ! "

For one second, fear lest Sir Albert's escort
should have been known to him — in itself so
innocent, but perhaps she now thought imprudent
— she coloured a little, and he noticed
it, and it increased his rage.

'' Mr. Lyons never shall have the pleasure
of escorting you again," he said. '^ I will take
care of that. Darby and Joan— Darby and

Joan ! " and another wild burst of laughter
rang out.

Margaret left him to think over her next
step, and to send Grace a few lines to account
for her non-appearance. She resolved to write
to Mrs. Dorriman, and to lay before her something
of her sad position. The whole truth
she could not bring herself to put down.

But time went on ; she got no letter from
Grrace nor from Mrs. Dorriman. Her husband
seemed to spend his whole time in watching
her, and if she attempted to go out he was
beside her. She appealed to the man-servant,
but he told her he was only there to see that
her husband did not go out alone, and did not
drink, for nothing else ; that he could not interfere.
^^I cannot aid and abet you, madam,"
he said; ^4t may be your sister, again it may
not be, and if something comes of it, it will
not look well for m^."

Margaret's indignant young face quelled
him, and he stopped short.

She was perfectly helpless. She could

wander in the grounds, and see little of her
husband. She could spend hours with her
child, but she never could go out. She felt that
this was indeed a prison, and she a prisoner !

She had not even the comfort of knowing
that Grace had got her letters, since she
received no answer ; then she was terrified lest
Grrace should write and say something in her
letter about Mr. Drayton.

She was utterly wretched about her ; her
nurse was a timid woman, and she had had one
rebuff ; she was afraid of altering her position
towards her, and altogether the poor thing did
not know what to do.

She was standing near the front door watching
her baby go out into the garden when the
front door bell rang violently, so loudly as to
make her start. Before it could be opened the
key had to be obtained from Mr. Drayton.
When it was answered, Margaret, who had
paused a little from curiosity, waited to see
who could come to this sad and forlorn place.

To her amazement she saw Sir Albert

VOL. II. N

Gerald. He saw her, and before any conventional
denial could be given he sprang forward
and greeted her joyfully.

She was so overwhelmed with joy now that
a friendly face appeared that she forgot everything
but that she saw before her one who
would go for her to her sister. She clung to
his hand and led him into the sitting-room,
where her husband, with angry eyes, was
watching her.

But he said nothing ; he rose and gave his
hand, and a new fear came upon Margaret.
If Mr. Drayton could so control himself, was
there not cunning present ? She knew that he
drank. Now she feared he was mad. A remembrance
of her earliest instinct against him
came to her, and she covered her face with
her hands. She could not say a word to Sir
Albert without his hearing it and she felt so
thankful to him for keeping Mr. Drayton in
conversation ; it gave her time to think.

Abruptly then, she spoke of her sister, and
begged him to go and see her, to let her know

how she was. ^^ You are a friend," she said;
^^you will see if you can help her, I cannot
go and see her just now, much as I long todo
so ! "

Tears came into her eyes ; he was shocked
and frightened for her. There was something
sinister in Mr. Drayton's expression.

He stayed as long as he could, and then he
left, promising to return ; and he left Margaret
happier because of his promise to see her
sister.

Mr. Drayton began to move restlessly about
the room after Sir Albert's depart are, and
came suddenly close up to his wife ; looking
at her with a malicious smile, he said, ^^ You
shall never speak to another man so long as I
live ! " Margaret did not answer, but she rang
the bell, and left him muttering to himself
vengeance upon her and her visitor.

Sir Albert, meanwhile, went to Grace's
lodgings, to find her ill, nervous, and most
anxious about poor Margaret. She had no
comforts about her and no proper attendance ;

N 2

and seeing how really ill she was, and with
poor Margaret full in his mind, he telegraphed
to Mrs. Dorriman, and entreated her to lose no
time, but to come south.

Next day he went to see Grace, and found
her in one of her most excited moods, her eyes
sparkling, her colour high.

She was at one moment making fun of
everything, the next dwelling upon their own
history.

She was full of remorse about Margaret.
^^ It is so dreadful; I drove her to it — it is like
a murder."

^^ I never understood it," Sir Albert said, ina
low voice.

'' Of course not. Poor darling ! when he
first proposed to her we were at Ronton, and
oh, it was hateful to me then, though I think
it tolerable now ; and I was wild to get away
anywhere from that smoky place. Poor
Margaret refused him, and told me about it.
. . You will see why I am so heart-broken

now. I was disappointed. I was so selfish, and
I thought she might have done it."

'^s that when "

'snow, do not interrupt me," she said,
struggling to speak in a light tone, though
her heart was heavy. ^' I am just like a clock,
I can go on when 1 am wound up, and if I am
put back I strike all wrong."

''I will not interrupt you — but," he said,
colouring, '^ would your sister wish me to hear
all this— think only of her— if she disliked it ? "

••' I am not thinking or talking of her, except
with reference to my part of the story," said
Grace, pettishly.

'' Well, we went to Lornbay, I daresay you
remember the place well, as you were laid-up
there. Well, Margaret had another lover
there" (she did not see him start), sand this
long, lanky, would-be fast youth also wished
to marry my Margaret, and, of course, she
said. No ; and I was not at all annoyed," she
continued, naively, '' for he had not a sixpence.


^^ Well— you see I begin all my sentences
with that useful word — but it was anything
but well now. We went off to a most detestable
little village called Torbreck, and there
I stupidly caught cold and coughed. I never
heard of any one who coughed as 1 did. Then
Mr. Drayton found us out, and I forget exactly
what he did, but he gave us ever so many
things, and grapes ; and how I thanked him.
Then he again wanted to marry Margaret.
Oh ! " she exclaimed, the tears running down
her face, '' I never, never can forget one night.
She came and knelt beside my bed, and she
asked me if this sacrifice would really be what
I wished ; she said it would be giving her life,
and that it was worse for her now than it had
been before she had been at Lornbay. Sir
Albert, do not turn away from me now. You
cannot hate my deed worse than I do — you
cannot have a lower opinion of me than I have
of myself. I excited myself, and I bid her
do it ! '' and Grace lay back in her chair
utterly exhausted.

What could the young man say ? The deed
was done and nothing could undo it. The
utter selfishness of Grace's conduct could find
no excuse ; he tried to master his emotion ; he
could only succeed in saying in a broken voice
something about Gods forgiveness.

But Grace was past all the anguish of seeing
this horror in his face. She had exerted herself
to tell him the story, and put Margaret
right in his eyes ; and she had given way to
exhaustion, and was deaf and blind to all that
passed round her — for the time.

He stayed a little while, and left her, shocked
at the violence of his own feeling against her.

The image of his poor childish love — kneeling
beside the bedside of the sister she adored,
who sacrificed her remorselessly — for what? A
few luxuries.

It was absolutely terrible to think of, and he
forgot to take into account the feebleness of
health that might have impaired judgment.
He waited in London till he thought Mrs.
Dorriman had time to answer, whence for fear

of any mistakes he had dated his telegram.
Her answer came, and was not fully satisfactory.
My holier is very ill, and I cannot leave him,
hut I send my maid Jean,

He went again to Grace's lodgings, and he
told the landlady that an old family servant
was on her way. Then he tried to think how
best to convey this news to Margaret.

He felt that his having been admitted was a
chance, and he was afraid of making things
worse for her by going there too often ; but he
must risk something, she must know in someway
about her sister, she must have her mind
set at rest.

Unable to make up his mind he was wandering
about when he was attracted by a curious-looking
book in a bookseller's shop. It was
something more than a shop, for he read there
that it was no less a place than the office of the
'^ Industrious Workman," a paper he knew byname.


He went in to ask the price of the book, and
the intelligent little man, who was tearfully

reading a poem, put it down to attend to him,
saying as he did so, ^^ I beg pardon for being
so absorbed, but I have something very lovely
here ; " and handing him the paper Sir Albert
recognised in the neatly-written lines— Margaret's
handwriting.

CHAPTER VII.

When Margaret left Renton Place, and that
Grace had seen her off, the first real sense of
having been to blame came to disturb her
mind. That intense belief in herself which,
as a rule, shielded her from uncomfortable
feelings, deserted her now ; she tried to argue
herself into some more cheerful vein, but found
it hopeless. Was it that she was weaker, and
that her illness had shaken her nerves ? When
night fell and the household slept, memory came
to confront her. Her selfishness filled her
with remorse ; how many things she could look
back upon now, when Margaret, her sweetness,

and her devotion never failing, had been
counted as so little, tested by her own all-absorbing
love of having her own way ?

After all, how petty a thing she had urged
her sacrifice for, and how easily the self-will
that had in the end been obliged to give in
might have done so before, and saved her !

A recognition, dim as yet, came to her of
the beauty of her sister's character. How far
apart they stood in feeling! How Margaret
insisted on not only truth, but the highest
expression of truth, as the only thing she cared
for.

Tears chased each other down her face, and
each morning found her pale and unrefreshed.

Want of sleep and the incessant torment of
a newly awakened conscience made Grace
unusually irritable, her gay spirits were fitful,
and, indeed, were only used as a mask to hide
the perpetual pain she had to bear, a pain
so far, far, more agonizing than any bodily
pain.

Mr. Sandford — who was, himself, out of

health — had no affection to enable him to
support her provoking ways.

He was terribly annoyed and concerned
about Margaret, he was upset and mortified by
other things.

It was impossible for Mr. Drayton to have
lost, as he had lost, without the fact being
known far and wide, and Mr. Sandford's share
was universally condemned. He was accused
openly of having made a cat's-paw of the man
whose genial laugh and careless ways had
gained him the epithet of a '' good fellow "
from men who had neither suffered through
him or known his counter-balancing want of
attraction.

Mr. Sandford knew that had he not been a
fool and a timid fool, just when he ought to
have been bold, he would not have lost, but
there was just that graiii of truth in the accusation
which made it sting.

The reputation of a man in business —
who has not the root of honesty where honesty
must be a sine qua non — if respect is to be

given; is like graceful species of fir trees to
be found on Scottish hills and in many a
wood, where, instead of sending their roots
well down into the earth, as do the other
kinds, they spread close to the surface, and
the first rough wind throws them over and
exposes the shallow hold they have of mother
earth. Mr. Sandford's name, once holding so
high a place, began to be mentioned with a
little reticence. A shake of the head or a
shrug of the shoulders says a good deal,
though it cannot be repeated. It has weight;
gestures are often remembered when words,
especially vague words, are forgotten.

Once a little beginning is made how easy is
it to go on! People began again to remember
that there was a great deal about poor Mr.
Dorriman's affairs that had never been properly
understood.

This feeling made itself felt. The first time
Mr. Sandford wanted to carry through some
measure with his usual heavy hand, the
members of the Company, of which lie was

chairman, demurred. No one accused him
openly, but there were certain things insinuated.


His quick sense of any failing towards
himself made him instantly grasp the position
of matters ; and, though he mastered himself
sufficiently to show no outward sign, he went
home with rage in his heart, all the more
terrible that it had had no outlet. It was at
this inopportune time that Grace provoked
him.

Mrs. Dorriman, in vain, tried to counsel the
wilful girl, in private. She heard her unmoved.
Day after day there were scenes, in
which her provoking words stung him.

'' Why should I not say what I think, my
dear Mrs. Dorriman ? I really cannot hold my
tongue."

^* I do not believe you are saying what you
think. You speak on purpose to provoke my
brother."

'^ And why should he not be provoked ?
Life gives me a great many trials. I should,
myself, prefer another home ; but if I am

obliged to live here I am not going to speak
or be silent according to Mr. Sandford's wishes,
and 1 do not intend being a hypocrite."

^^No one wishes you to be a hypocrite, but
you need not say what you have to say
disagreeably. You always make him angry,
not so much by your words but by the way
you speak the words."

Mr. Sandford is a tyrant, and the more
you give in to him the less you are likely to
get. I hope I may never live to be as frightened
and timid as you are ! "

'' I am not too timid to say what I think, if
it is right to say it."

^^ Yes, you are! you look frightened, and
that is enough for a man like your brother.
Now I cannot really look frightened, because a
man in a rage is to me a ridiculous object. It
amuses me."

'' I cannot help saying you have had one
lesson ! You once provoked my brother in
such a way that you and Margaret went away,
and poor Margaret has now to suffer ; you
might see that you do harm and not good ; "

and Mrs. Dorriman felt so angry she did not
measure her words. '^Yoii do not suffer, but
she does, and but for you, but for your way
of speaking to my brother, she would be safe
with us, poor child ! "

She had effectually stopped her for the
moment, and, herself moved by this statement
in words of [thoughts often present to her, she
rose and left the room.

She had said nothing that Grace had not
remorsefully said to herself, but the very truth
in her speech made her angry.

She heard Mr. Sandford's voice. He was
calling his sister's name. He met her on the
stairs in tears.

She passed him quickly, and indignant, and
in a mood full of irritability, he strode into the
drawing-room to Grace .

'' I will have you know," he said in his
angriest and loudest voice, ^^ that I will not
allow you to bully my sister''

^' No," said Grace, languidly, ^' you like to
monopolise that privilege ! "

*' How dare you speak to me in that way ? "
^^ I dare speak in any way to you. Why are
you to be always studied ? and why is everyone
to treat you as though you were a being of
another sphere? You do bully your sister, and
you would bully me if I were to be in the very
least afraid of you. But I am not. Your
sister has been trying to make me see that you
ought to be humoured — she drew an affecting
picture and then wept over it."

He was white now, pale with rage.
'^ What do you know about my conduct to
my sister ? There is no one I more respect'*

'^ Well, you have the oddest way of showing
it I ever knew," and Grace made a provoking
gesture of astonishment, and gave a laugh of
derision.

This completely exhausted Mr. Sandford's
very slight stock of patience. He went into a
most fearful rage and said things that made
Grace shiver. Pale in her turn she left the
room, and for a second time left his house in
anger.

VOL. II. o

She left without her things, wrapping herself
up in her cloak, and resolved to go to her
sister, and not to make a sign. She was quite,
quite sure Mr. Drayton would receive her at any
rate for a time, and she must make some new
arrangement. Return here she never would.

Mrs. Dorriman heard the loud voice, and as
soon as she had recovered her composure she
hurried to the scene of action, to find Mr.
Sandford ill, as he always was when passion
got the mastery of him.

In her anxiety about him Grace was forgotten,
and it was not till dinner-time that
her departure was discovered, and poor Mrs.
Dorriman felt as though troubles were indeed
her portion.

Mr. Sandford did not rally as he usually did,
and she on her own responsibility sent for the
doctor.

He came and administered remedies. Then
he told her privately that her brother had a
serious complaint, and that agitation would
one day be fatal to him.

You must keep him quiet ; he really must
not be either worried or disturbed about anything,"
said the doctor, not unkindly, but
anxious professionally, and determined to insist
on his patient's having the only chance of
living.

"If I can keep him quiet!" began poor
Mrs. Dorriman, 'but nothing I can dois
of any use. Oh I indeed it is not my
fault''

'' Of course I do not mean to say it is," he
answered hastily, '• but I merely give you
warning. This attack has been brought on by
some violent emotion, and a repetition of it,
any mental excitement, will put an end to his
life."

Mrs. Dorriman went to his side when the
doctor had gone, a whole world of remorse
and pain in her heart.

She had been several months with him now,
and, though she had never really forgotten
the unspoken suspicion, it had been put into a
remote corner of her memory. As she looked

o 2

upon him and marked the careworn face and
look of struggle his attack had left, she had
a sense of having been treacherous towards
him. What did it really matter ? Supposing
those papers contained some proof against him,
would it be of any use confronting him with
them ?

She was conscious of two things that the
whole attitude of her mind had changed towards
him, and that it had also altered towards
her husband.

The various scenes she had gone through ai
Renton had had the effect of turning her
thoughts gratefully towards the affection and
the peace she had had with her husband.

She began to think of him more tenderly,
and to see other possible conclusions than
those she had arrived at.

This awakened tenderness, which could never
comfort him now, made her feel as though,
if she did read those papers, she would see
nothing against her husband, and this conviction
took a heavy load off her mind. Then

came the other part of the problem — If her
husband had been blameless what was her
brother ?

All the long years of neglect at school, all
the harshness with which he had treated her
in former years, seemed to have faded now,
she had softened to him so much, and now ashe
slowly recovered she acknowledged this.

It was just when she had recognised him asher
first duty now that the telegram imploring
her, to go at once to Grace was put into her
hand.

She was distressed beyond measure, but she
could not do it, she could not agitate or annoy
him now. She could not leave him.

It was indeed hard to her to send Jean from
her but she had no confidence in other helps,
and she had the strongest feeling of a neglected
duty if she now gave up helping the wayward
girl.

Jean went unwilling. She had never been
out of Scotland, and looked upon London as a
sink of iniquity. She had some misgivings

about her journey, and she went off with an
idea fixed in her head that she was to be
always upon her guard against plausible pickpockets,
extortionate cabman, and civilities
which might mean robbery in the end.

She pinned Grace's address inside her dress,
concealed her purse there, and was put into the
train by Robert, who gave the guard charge of
her, very much to her own indignation, '^ as
though I was a little parcel," she said to herself.

She was in a second-class carriage and met
with a few adventures ; she was so ^' stand-off"
to the two or three strangers who got in or out
that they thought her a most disagreeable old
woman, but Jean was only on her guard.

When they changed carriages and Jean was
once more seated, a young woman passed and
re-passed and finally got into the carriage and
sat down opposite to her. She was very fair
and had a lovely pink colour in her cheeks.
She fidgeted a good deal, got up and shook
her dress, and finally said, in accents of
dismay.

^' Oil, what shall I do ? I have lost my
ticket and I have no money with me ! "

Jean, who was alone in the carriage, eyed
her attentively but spoke not a word.

The young woman began to cry.

'^ Help me ! " she said ; ^' help me ! I am
alone and friendless ! "

Jean still said nothing ; she noticed that as
they stopped at a station her sobs subsided
and that she drew back into a corner and
avoided observation. This roused her suspicions,
and, when they started again, the
person, hitherto in such despair, began to
grow not a little impertinent.

^* I wonder if people pay by weight in this
train ? " she said, airily, determined to unlock
the silent lips of the stout and much wrapped
figure in front of her.

This taunt about her size did rouse Jean.

"If you've paid for your ticket you probably
know," she said, in her best English, and extremely
indignant.

This answer completely extinguished all

wish for conversation on the part of her opposite
neighbour, but she still fidgeted about,
trying first one seat and then another, and,
sitting down beside Jean, she fumbled about
and pressed against her, altogether making herself
most objectionable.

The journey came to an end ; the ticket-collector
came to the door and Jean put her
hand in her pocket — her purse was safe,
luckily, in the front of her dress — the ticket
was gone ! Greatly to her surprise the young
woman immediately produced one.

Jean hunted in vain, her ticket was nowhere
to be found, and her dismay was great. She
had a confused notion that she was in someway
breaking the law, and, though outwardly
she kept calm, she was in a most
fearful state really, and she did not know what
to do.

The guard fortunately came up to see what
the stoppage was, and was accompanied by a
policeman.

'' What was the matter ? " he asked.

Before Jean could answer, the policeman
stretched out his hand and touched the young
woman, who had been vainly trying to get
out. She turned pale — through what Jean
now saw was paint.

^' You are wanted," and, turning to Jean,
he said, ^'has she taken anything of yours,
ma'am ? "

Looking at the ticket the guard laughed and
answered,

^^ She has taken your ticket, old lady.
« From Renton to London She only got in
an hour ago."

Poor Jean ! all her life long she will believe
in policemen from henceforward. Indeed,
when she went from St Pancreas to the station
for Wandsworth she refused to pay her cab till
the policeman standing near told her wdiat the
fare was, amusing the bystanders not a little
by her determined attitude and the suspicious
look she gave the cabman.

When she reached Grace, her fatigue, her
adventures, everything gave way to compassion.

For Grace was very ill, and needed
good nursing and care, and, to poor Jean's
eyes, the lodging and all belonging to it was
not fit for any Christian, certainly not for a
Scotchman.

She wondered a good deal that Margaret
never came near her sister, and made up
her mind to go and look her up : Mrs.
Dorriman had charged her to be a mother to
both bairns, and she fully intended keeping her
promise.

In the meantime Margaret's little poem had
been published, and she had received three
golden sovereigns for her work. She knew so
little of the value of literary work that she was
not in the very least surprised ; she felt only
the deepest thankfulness that, if she had a
gift, she could turn it to account for her
beloved sister.

Her poem was very touching, full of the
faults of one whose education had never been
extensive, but when she saw it in print she
noticed a few alterations she considered improvements,

and took for granted that these
alterations were made as a matter of course by
the editor. This was evidently the use of
having an editor. Then she began calculating
how many of these poems she could write ina
week. Say she wrote four. Why there was
at once twelve guineas a week ; a livelihood,
a large income ! Why, oh why, had she not
thought of this before ?

The impressions of her mind flowed naturally
into rhyme. There was great beauty of
thought, though much sameness in its delivery
on paper. Her reading with Mrs. Dorriman
had not been thrown away, and she began to
be able to concentrate her thoughts on her
work. The happiness of her life which she
had missed, set all to a minor key, but it
made her poems more beautiful. To touch
the feelings of others, to appeal to their hearts,
there must be reality, and reality only can
exist from personal experience.

Sometimes the extraordinary dreariness of
her life appalled her. To rise day after day,

knowing that a secret dread of a possible
tragedy, enacted in her house, pursued her ;
to see no one, to go nowhere, since she was
not allowed to cross the threshold. She had
no idea that these facts, told to any one, would
have immediately brought her release, and
that any one, knowing what her life was,
would have formed a juster conclusion of the
state her husband was in.

But the fear of having to leave, and to be
parted from her child, made all else nothing to
her, and when she met her husband, he hardly
spoke to her. She never saw him without his
servant being present, and she could not bear
appealing to her husband before him. She
could not bear discussing her sister's illness in
his hearing.

Every possible opportunity lie tried to get
that key of the front door, or permission to go
out, but each time was met by peals of laughter,
of senseless laughter, and refusal.

Her husband's last idea was the most frantic
jealousy of the doctor, who had been a

little won over by Mrs. Drayton's youth and
grace and charm of manner.

Before him Mr. Drayton was always perfectly
quiet, and even well-bred, a little sullen,
which was, the doctor thought, natural since
he must resent the deprivation of any stimulants
; but he was satisfied from his observations
that he was really kept from them,
and saw nothing to point suspicion in another
direction.

He regretted never seeing the young wife
now, and expressed his regret to Mr. Drayton.

He was surprised to see an angry flush rise
in his face, but concluded that perhaps there
had been some conjugal difference, and that
she did not choose to appear.

When Margaret first contrived to send her
little poem to good Mr. Skidd, the editor of
the ^' Industrious Workman," she had done
it through her nurse, who had grown warmly
attached to her mistress. She was quite
young — this was her first place, and she
came to the conclusion that if this was the

life led by rich people, the poor had many
more pleasures.

Margaret read her poem to her, which she but
vaguely took in, and she also read her the
note she wrote to the editor.

She had no knowledge of him except that at
first the doctor had told her she could get
books there, when she had asked him, he had
also spoken highly of him as a cultivated and
intellectual man, who had done a great deal
towards spreading wholesome cheap literature,
and that he edited a weekly paper of much
merit.

Her idea, now, was to write something
longer and more important. She had two
great incentives to write : she had that something
to say, without which all writing falls
so flat ; and she wished to get money for her
sister.

Mr. Skidd received her proposal to write a
book of poetry with some amusement.

The unknown gentleman who brought out
her little poems at his own expense, after they

had appeared in the paper, and who received
for her the few shillings Mr. Skidd considered
them worth, might not stretch his generosity
so far as to embark in a larger book — but he
would see. He spoke, therefore, rather vaguely
to the young woman who came as messenger,
so vaguely that Margaret imagined she must
try, in some way, and have an interview with
the man herself.

But how to accomplish this ? True, there
was a back door, but she could not bear going
out through the connivance of the servant,
who was cook and who was a disagreeable
woman at all times. Fortune favoured her,
however, in a few days. She was walking in
the garden one afternoon with her nurse and
baby when some one came to the front door
with a message, which caused the grumpy
man-servant to go into the house for a few
seconds. Quick as thought, Margaret slipped
out of her prison, and hurried along the
road.

She was dizzy with excitement and the

sense of freedom — to see Grace — and to
arrange about her book.

Her face was glowing as she moved along.
She must first see Grace, and then hurry on todo
her business.

When she reached Grace's lodgings she
was met by a home-likcj kindly face ; and
Jean, forgetting everything but that she had a
hard life of it, took her to her arms as though
she had been a bairn of her own.

Margaret's tears were never very near the
surface, but she had lived a life so unnatural
and so repressed, she had been so entirely
without kindness or sympathy for so long,
that she broke down now, and sobbed upon
good, honest, Jean's broad shoulder, sensible
only of the sweetness and comfort of the
relief.

^'My poor bairn, my poor bairn! "jean
kept on saying, and then, recollecting that
she ought not to allow her to give way, she
said, '^ but you'll no be fit to see Miss Grace,
and you just a blurred objick,'' and this reflection

also stopped Margaret's tears and
caused her to lift up her head and try to
compose herself.

^^ How is my sister? How is Grace, dear
Jean ? "

She's no just fit to dance the houlachan,"
said Jean, gaily, who had her own private
way of pronouncing most words, '' but she's
not that bad. Eh, my dear, come and see
her ; she's been wearying for you, sir, sir."

Margaret went upstairs, and in another
moment the sisters were once more together.

Grace was lying on the sofa, and Margaret
found her looking better than she expected.
She was a softened edition of the old Grace,
still fitful, capricious, but full of tenderness for
her sister, whose life she had so completely
spoiled.

'why, darling, have you never been here
before?" she asked; ^^I have sent you so
many notes and have had such scanty answers.
You never tell me of yourself ; you never tell
me what I want to know."

VOL. II. p

^'I have so little to say of myself. My
husband has been ill, and, since his illness, he
cannot bear my going out, and I came to-day
because I could slip away."

'^ But tell me one thing, darling, only one.
Why stay with him ? Why not leave him ? "

'^ Because of baby ; I cannot desert my
little one, Grace : and if I left him merely
because he is unkind and allows me no liberty
and is ^ odd,' he would have the right to keep
baby, not I, its mother."

^^ Then if that is the law it is abominable ! "
exclaimed Grace.

'' I think it is terrible," said Margaret ;
'' even if he was cruel, if he struck me, if he
were in other ways infamous, I might leave
him; I should be free; but even then it is
doubtful if I might have my child."

^^ And we boast of English justice ! " exclaimed
Grace.

'* It is cruelly unjust," said Margaret. ^^ Oh
darling, how often we have laughed at women
wanting their rights,' and made fun of those

who made a stir about having votes: but this
one thing, this one frightful injustice, makes
me feel that women should, in some way, be
able to make their great needs felt ; surely a
mother should have equal rights with the
father, and have something to say in a child's
destiny ! "

^' And we have to submit, and I, I have
brought you into this position ! '' and Grace
burst into tears.

Jean hurried into the room,

^' Bairns, my dear bairns, whist, for any
sake. You'll make me feel I did wrong in
leaving the two of you together''

'^ We were talking of an unjust law," said
Margaret ; ^^ we were talking of my child,
Jean, and that if 1 ever left my husband, he
would have it probably, and not me."

'' It's a man made that law," said Jean,
'' and it's a real cruel one and not Christian.
I never had any opinion of men, they're just
poor creatures all round, poor selfish creatures
except, maybe, the police'' she added, with

pa

sense of ingratitude for the way in which a
policeman had helped her in her hour of need.

'^ Tell me of your baby, Margaret," said
Grace, turning with real interest to her sister ;
*^ it is more than a year old now, is it not ? "

^' My little darling is a year and almost
three months old, in eye days now it will be
fifteen months old. It can run about, and
calls me so prettily. Oh, darling, I wish, I
wish it were with me at this moment. I feel
so anxious if I am away from it ; only once
before, since its birth, have I been away."

^^ And does that man shut you up, darling ?
Do you mean to say that those smoky trees
and that walled-in place, looking like a prison,
is all you have ? Oh, your life is one long-trial
I "

Margaret did not speak ; her life was so
utterly wretched, so utterly devoid of hope,
that she could not speak of it.

'' I have baby," she said, softly, ^^ and,
Oracle, dearest, when one is very wretched
God is very near''

The sisters parted with all the anguish of
a vagueness about their next meeting, which
filled them both with a sense of having
nothing to look forward to, and Margaret tore
herself away and hurried into Mr. Skidd's presence.


Mrs. Dorriman had boldly authorised Jean
to look to Mr. Sandford for all expenses, so
that she no longer cared about the money so
nmch.

But this lessened sense of requirement did
not in any way make lier gratitude to the
editor for his Kindness, less. With no real
knowledge to guide her she did not know that
everything must bear the test of criticism, and
that it would have been false kindness to
encourage her to write without any merit insight.


But Mr. Skidd had discovered real merit in
all Margaret did; there was the impress of
truth, and no fictitious feeling. The cry was
the cry of a starved, human soul pining for
sympathy and an outlet, under a life of great

misery and repression, haunted by a never-ending
fear.

He was so amazed when Margaret stood
before him — at her youth and the graceful way
she expressed her thanks, that he was dumb
before her.

Next a vivid colour blushed over his baldhead,
for he remembered that he stood in his
shirt-sleeves.

He was too honest a man to accept her
thanks for more than he had done, and he
puzzled her considerably by his allusion to the
great appreciation of a gentleman from
London.

'^ But you published my little poem," she
asked, not a little perplexed by his statements.

^' Certainly, madam ! In the first instance
I did, but this gentleman, a literary gentleman,
happened to call the very day I was reading
your first poem, and he liked it, and he brought
it out afterwards and took charge of the trifle
I sent you for it ; I hope that was all right and

that you received it. I hold his receipt, and
I imagined he was authorised by you."

^' Oh, thank you ! Yes. I got the money
all right'' said Margaret, much bewildered,
and wondering who this could have been.

She found also that Mr. Skidd could not
promise anything about her poem in an enlarged
form till he had seen it, and had time
to consult this mysterious friend, who by his
account appreciated her short poems so much.

It was delightful to think she might have a
larger audience and command a public who
might be equally appreciative. Mr. Skidd
began to discuss her poetry with her, and he
gave her many useful hints.

The fault of your poetry, madam, is that
it wants variety. People get tired of perpetual
sorrow and all that sort of thing. You write
very prettily. Give us something cheerful,
make the birds twitter and the sun shine, cultivate
brightness, people do not like always
being in mourning."

'^ But if I am not happy I cannot write
what I do not feel," objected Margaret.

^^ Oh, yes you can ; you get the trick of the
thing and you will easily do it."

Margaret knew this to be impossible, but
before she had time to repeat her negative a
well-remembered face came before her, and
Sir Albert Gerald, filled with happiness at
meeting her so unexpectedly, came up with
an outstretched hand. Mr. Skidd was immensely
annoyed.

^* And you make believe not to know who
buys your poem," he exclaimed ; ^^1 call that
humbug — and you," he said sharply, turning
to Sir Albert, 'why could you not be open
about it ? "

'^ But did yoti buy my poems ? Are you the
literary man from whose appreciation I have
received so much encouragement," and Margaret,
mortified and disappointed, turned to go
away.

At any rate she knew nothing, and Mr.

Skidd was ashamed of the momentary suspicion
that had filled him.

'^ No, this lady was acting on the square ; as
for the man ''

The little man felt as he looked at them
that a whole drama was being played out before
his eyes, the air was full of some secret
thing in connection with these two.

Sir Albert, deferential and respectful, was
evidently quite absorbed in the tall, graceful
figure before him, who stood cold and apparently
determined to show no satisfaction
in his presence.

Mr. Skidd was a good judge of character.

^^ I'll be bound there is no harm in /^^r," he
said, and so saying left them to themselves.

CHAPTER VIII.

^' You believe, do you not, that my being here
is an accident ? " Sir Albert said courteously.
^' I have been interested in your writing, and
I am glad it has found appreciation."

She raised her head and spoke to him
Hurriedly, '' You are kind — you mean to be
kind — but you have no idea what a bitter,
bitter blow this is to me— and what a terrible
disappointment ! ''

You misunderstand the whole thing," he
said, moved almost beyond his powers of control
when he noted how her bloom had faded,
and how terrible the traces of anxiety in her

face showed what her life was. ^^ It is true
that I have managed the publication for you,
but I assure you that your poems have met
with the highest praise, and that, though I did
bring them out for you (it seems such a little
thing to do for you), I have just now received
a letter from the editor of one of the highest
class of magazines to show you. Your name
is unknown to him — he merely treats your
poems as coming from a stranger — you are a
complete stranger to him. Will you read it?"

He held it towards her. While finding
fault with one or two lines, objecting to a
word here and there, he acknowledged in
warm terms the beauty of imagery, the flow
of thought, the purity of the lines sent him,
and considered it indicated unusual power,
and that the author should be encouraged to
try a longer flight.

Poor Margaret ! The present and all the
trials of her life were forgotten ; the sweetness
of this praise coming at a moment when her
heart was starved, and all her brilliant and

glowing imagination was pent up within the
dreary walls of her most unhappy home, was
almost overpowering. She held both hands
out to the man who had proved himself so real
a friend — her colour flushed into her cheek,
and tears of gratitude sparkled in her eyes.

It was the sorest trial to poor Sir Albert
not to be able to tell her that he could not.
bear gratitude from her. He stood gazing at
her, as one spell-bound, clasping her hands till
she withdrew them, with a struggle going on
in his heart that was almost beyond him.

Then she turned to go, and her last words
were at once a pang and a reward.

^^ I will always trust you," she said, earnestly,
"" you will be my critic and my judge ;
if I write nonsense you will be a real friend
and say so. I feel so grateful to you ! From
henceforward I shall feel I have indeed a
brother."

He muttered something, feeling miserable,
and frightened of her seeing it, and he
watched her go, knowing that his life was

only cheered by the hope of befriending her —
thankful that she had this one great gift to
save her from despair, and yet fully aware
that, as far as he was concerned, her utter
unconsciousness of his continued love was an
additional pain to him.

Then he went into one or two business
details with Mr. Skidd ; delighted that little
man by corroborating his high opinion of
the little poems by showing him the letter
he had — and went to London, depressed and
unhappy. He had gained nothing by this
accidental interview except the conviction that
she had so entirely forgotten his love that she
proffered the brotherly tie as entirely satisfactory
to him, as to her. And yet, in his
heart of hearts, he knew that this attitude
towards him was the only possible one for
such as her if she allowed him to help her and
to be her friend.

Mrs. Dorriman, missing Jean at every turn,
was in a measure consoled by the gruff kindness
of her brother to her.

She was so accustomed to his manner that
she felt the kindness and did not resent his
roughness.

She was happier since she had seen Jean,
whose letter, faithfully detailing her adventures,
was very amusing. But she asked
herself what was to be the end of it all ?

Grace, who must have some settled home,
and poor Margaret, who seemed to be so
completely a prisoner, and not able to. go
and look after her sister, were both perplexing
problems.

But as life goes on we learn not to trouble
so much about things, we feel that a Hand
does guide and guard us, and bring all things
right — and Mrs. Dorriman, looking back upon
her life, was every day learning this deeper
lesson.

She was surprised now to receive a good
many visits, a thing she had hitherto been unaccustomed
to, at Renton Place.

The few neighbours around, living within
easy distance, had hardly realised that Mrs.

Dorriman had come to Renton to live there.
When she first went to Renton, with all the
kindness of heart of the neighbours, and a
real wish to make acquaintance with a person
of whom all the world spoke well, there was a
pardonable amount of curiosity among some.

A man reputed to beamillionnaire, and who
had a romantic attachment for his first wife,
might also make a good husband to a second
wife. Then also the question of the girls who
were to have lived with him and who did not
live with him. Margaret's marriage to a man
^^ old enough to be her grandfather," and a
certain little mystery of where it had all been
made up, gave that interest in the doings at
Eenton Place which blossomed into activity in
the shape of visits.

The first person who felt a visit due from
her was Mrs. Wymans, who had the excuse of
an apology to make for having handled the
domestic affairs of Mr Sandford, with a certain
freedom, before Mrs. Dorriman.

Most people would have thought that the

apology might have been made before, or
might be left alone now ; but this conditional
tense in which her friends put the case was
met by Mrs. Wymans with plausible reasons.
Certainly she had always thought of going —
but till now — did any one know that Mrs.
Dorriman was anything more than a visitor ?
Had she known that she was really to be
resident Why of course it would be
very rude not to call.

Mrs. Dorriman was not at all inclined to
despise the proffered olive-branch. She had no
distaste for acquaintances, and was so evidently
glad to see that people intended to be
kind to her, that the infection spread. From
being liked she became extremely popular;
a person never sure enough of her facts to
contradict anybody is always approved of ;
and after being spoken of as poor Mrs.
Dorriman for many months she was now
talked of as dear Mrs. Dorriman, being one
of those women who, for some inexplicable

reason, is never mentioned without an adjective.


The visits were made and returned — the
only drawback being that Mr. Sandford had
never yet been seen by any one — though Mrs.
Wymans, who always posed as having done
or seen a little more than her neighbours,
avowed to having seen the back of his head
upon one occasion, which, if true, certainly
proved that he was capable of being in two
places at once.

Truth to tell, the rapprochemefit between
the brother and sister was not productive of
entire satisfaction to Mr. Sandford.

If Mrs. Dorriman's conscience was so
sensitive that she felt like a traitor towards
her brother, because of certain papers she
knew of, the contents of which might possibly
betray something against him, his conscience,
though not sensitive, had a far far heavier
weight upon it, though it did not press upon
him continually.

It was impossible to live with a woman

VOL. II. Q

so meek, so gentle, and so unselfish, without
learning to like her, but the liking produced
much acute uneasiness ; and at times his
rough manner was more a mask for his uncomfortable
feelings than for any other reason.
He was up and out again, though he felt
that he had not quite his old clearness of
perception, he was more easily tired and he
was always thankful to get home.

That home was indeed changed to him now.
The cheerfulness and serenity, the evenness
of Mrs. Dorriman's temper made him look
forward to going home, where his most trifling
wishes were attended to, and when he had
that certainty of being met in the same quiet
way, of having no fluctuations in manner,
which gives the real home feeling.

Mrs. Dorriman was not perfect, she was a
woman who possessed no great gifts, and she
was constitutionally timid, and not much fitted
to form an opinion about subjects outside those
of domestic interest ; but she did understand
that a man, tired and worried by affairs outside

his home, required rest and refreshment in it,
and she knew how to give both.

The dreariness that had once obtained had
long vanished. All inside the house was light
and bright and cheerful for him now, and each
day sent him home with this recognition
deeper in his heart, and more remorseful
because of certain acts of his which now never
could be undone.

Mrs. Wymans, when she made her appearance
at Eenton, had rehearsed her apology, and
then found that it must be put differently.

The extreme quiet of Mrs. Dorriman's
manner was a check she had hardly counted
upon. When they had that encounter in the
railway carriage the poor little lady had been
troubled and nervous, her manner was agitated ;
and Mrs. Wymans, who was a shrewd observer,
saw that she stopped the conversation about
her brother from a sense of right, and that she
was evidently not resenting it in a sisterly
fashion.

Q2

From this she drew several inferences, everyone
of which had to be laid aside now.

^' Your brother, I hear, has been so ill we did
not like to intrude, and before — you went

away " she said, which was not in the least

what she had meant to say.

'^ Yes," said Mrs. Dorriman, " we went
away, and had you been so kind as to call
before this I could not have seen you, my
brother has been so very ill."

^^ And you have no nurse'' said Mrs.
Wymans, betraying her knowledge of the internal
economy of the household. ^' You must
find the nursing very troublesome and most
fatiguing. I know of an excellent woman who
could come at a moment's notice."

'* Thank you, but I am happy to say that
the fatigue, like the illness, lies in the past.
My brother is quite well again, and out and
about his usual business."

'' Of course he likes his business, he is so
successful; the trial is where hard work is not
successful'' and Mrs. Wymans spoke feelingly.

^^ I think my brother meets with some
success and probably some trials also, but these
are only words too ; we never talk of business
together, and I know nothing about his."

^'Eeally ! Forgive me, dear Mrs. Dorriman,
but then where is the sympathy ? And a
woman has such sharp eyes. 1 never rest till
I know every single thing that is going on —
that is my way of showing sympathy''

^' But it must tire your husband, does it not?
A woman can see only one side, and then she
cannot help in the way of advice. Her advice
cannot be useful."

*that is only a notion of yours'' said Mrs.
Wymans, a little nettled, ^' and why should a
woman only know one side of a thing ? "

^' Because she only hears her husband's
views ; of course his private affairs cannot be
talked over with another person, therefore the
wife's views must be a little one-sided."^,

'' Oh no, mine are not. I hear a thing and
see a great many sides all at once''

'^ Perhaps you are cleverer than I am," said
Mrs. Dorriman, in all humility, glad that at

any rate the question of the Rivers girls had
not cropped up.

Mrs. Aryans eyed her keenly, anxious to
make out whether she was speaking satirically
or not. Somewhat reassured on that point by
Mrs. Dorriman' s placid face, she drew a little
nearer her and said confidentially,

^' What a sad thing Mrs. Drayton's position
is!"

' In what way ? " Mrs. Dorriman received
a dreadful shock by this sudden touch upon the
subject.

^' Why, her husband being poor instead of
rich, and some other things."

'^ Do you mind telling me what other
things ? '■ and Mrs. Dorriman was alarmed as
well as annoyed.

'' Why, if you do not know of any thing, . . .
but if it is not true, I had better not repeat it."

'' You really must tell me what you mean,"
and Mrs. Dorriman, the gentlest of women, had
so to speak all her feathers ruffled now.

^^ People say he drinks," answered Mrs.

Wymans, with that sudden misgiving as to the
wisdom of her words which made her wish
them unsaid immediately they had passed her
lips.

'^ That I am sure is not the case," returned
Mrs. Dorriman; she felt quite convinced that
had there been any truth about this she would
have heard it counted against him when her
brother had been so incensed with her and had
said many bitter things.

"I am so very glad to hear it," and Mrs.
Wymans lost her sense of discomfort, since it
was not true.

'' It was a curious marriage for a young girl
to make," she remarked abruptly, since she
found Mrs. Dorriman's silence a little oppressive.

^^ I think it was; but, though my brother
offered them a home, he had, of course, no
real authority over them."

^^Ah," said Mrs. Wymans, enchanted to
have got at the root of the matter, "people
were rather puzzled at his having taken them
up so much ; do you very much mind telling:

me, dear Mrs. Dorriman, how it all was?
What was the real bond of union ? "

^^ Why should I mind telling you so simple
a thing ? " and Mrs. Dorriman's amused face
was quite a little shock to her visitor ; '' they
are his wife's nieces : he is their uncle by
marriage, and being, as you are probably
aware, devoted to his wife's memory, he was
glad to befriend them."

*^ And is this really all ? " exclaimed Mrs.
Wymans, who could hardly get over her disappointment.
^^Why we all thought — everyone
thought — and people said something else."

^^ People are wrong," said Mrs. Dorriman,
with a laugh that was a very genuine one ; ^' I
cannot myself understand the interest taken in
these private matters, but that is the simple
fact. Mr. Rivers and my brother married two
sisters, who were devoted to each other.
When Mrs. Rivers died she recommended her
children to Mrs. Sandford, and at her death
my brother promised to befriend them. It
seems to me such a simple thing."

'sit certainly does," and Mrs. Wymans rose
to go, and bid farewell to Mrs. Dorriman, who
was conscious only of one terrible speech ; was

it true that Mr. Drayton did that

and, if it was true, were they right in taking
all for granted and leaving Margaret at his
mercy ? But for the doctor's prohibition she
would have gone straight to her brother and
laid her new anxieties before him. But she
remembered that he was not to be agitated or
excited, and she resolutely sat still till all her
own excited thoughts became calmer. She
took up her knitting and worked on mechanically,
while this new responsibility made her
feel as though nothing in the world, of such
moment, had ever come before her. It was
an evil unknown to her ; in the old days her
father was a man both abstemious and refined
in his surroundings, and since her marriage,
though she saw terrible accounts in the papers,
she had lived so little in any town, and had
seen so little that was evil, that she considered
people made almost unnecessary fuss about

teetotalism ; she could not imagine such a
fearful thing as drinking touching her order,
though she knew it obtained among some poor
miserable creatures, of whom she seldom
thought without a shudder of sorrow, mingled
with disgust.

To think of Margaret, with all her great
love of purity and peace, exposed to so
horrible a thing, was something absolutely
terrible to her ; so perfectly appalling that she
started up feeling as though every moment
was a cruel wrong to the girl she had learned
to love so dearly. She went to her brother's
room ; he was sitting up, and she sat down
beside him in a flutter of spirits that made
her incoherent.

'' You have had a visitor," he began, with
a laugh in which there was not much mirth.

'' Only Mrs. Wymans," she answered, with
indifference.

^' If she could hear you ! She is a person
of great consequence in her own estimation."

^^ I wonder why she called," his sister said,

absently, doubtful as to her capability of
putting the question without causing any excitement.


^^ I'll tell you," he answered; ^^ there is a
great deal of curiosity about Drayton just
now ; before this attack of mine I was driven
wild by all manner of questions about him.
He is a great fool to make a mystery of his
address ; there is no reason he should do so ;
he answers no letters, he leaves every one to
conjecture things, and in this beautiful world
if a thing is not fully understood, the worst
interpretation and not the best is the accepted
one."

'' Then you think there is no reason for his
shutting himself up ? "

^' There can be no reason. Margaret is not
likely to give him cause for jealousy, and the
man is in the possession of all his senses."

'^ Always, and at all times?" and Mrs.
Dorriman leaned forward, breathing quickly
and watching his face very anxiously.

Anne," said Mr. Sandford, and this name

from him was an especial sign of kindness
towards her, ^^has any one told you anything?
Depend upon it it is only gossip."

^^It may be gossip, I trust it may be untrue;
but why is Margaret, so to speak, shut up ? She
cannot go out even for a walk beyond the
grounds; Jean says she has not been to see
Grace for ever so long, and there must be
some reason for his never answering any
letter."

'' I never heard this before. What do you
mean about Margaret ? I think you are
speaking great nonsense.' '

'^ Jean says that the poor thing never gets
out. At first she went out and he went with
her — followed her like a shadow — now he does
not go himself, and she is kept a perfect
prisoner. No one is allowed to go near the
house. I assure you, brother, I have been
longing for you to be well to speak about
it."

The man must be mad," exclaimed Mr.
Sandford, and then he noticed his sister's face.

*^ You have heard something, you have something
more to say ? " and his own face flushed.

'' Brother, do not excite yourself. You
know the doctor is afraid of your being ill if
you do."

Well, then, don't make mysteries," he said
very angrily, and with much of his old
violence.

'^ I am sure," said the poor woman, hurt at
such an accusation, '^ I do not wish to make
mysteries, but Mrs. Wymans told me that she
had heard he drank. Now, I am not quite
sure if she put it quite that way or if she
asked me if he drank."

^^Not a bit of it. If he does, it is something
quite new. He was a very abstemious
man. You might recollect his headaches, and
saying wine increased those headaches."

^^ So I do," exclaimed Mrs. Dorriman, joyfully;
*^ how tiresome it is that I forgot this
when that woman was here. She spoke so
meaningly," and Mrs. Dorriman as usual considered
herself somehow altogether to blame.

Mr. Sandford said no more, but he lay back,
thinking. He blamed himself, justly, for
having" been the person to bring this man to
the house for his own end — and now . . .

He was free of further blame ; he had heard
rumours in connection with Mr. Drayton's
family that had greatly disturbed him, and
then he had done his best to prevent his
marrying Margaret ; his conscience had plenty
to bear but not this — only he might have
spoken more plainly, he might have told her
or his sister something that had come to his
knowledge. Then, when too late, he knew.

He was better, but his strength was not
coming back quickly, and business matters,
the position he had held, everything connected
with the past, began to shrink in importance.

But Margaret ! Something must be done at
once about her ; a terrible dread came to him
about her.

^' One thing you must do at once," he said,
aloud, following out his own thoughts, ^^ you
must write to Jean without delay ; enclose hera

cheque, and tell her it is important that she
should give it, and letters from you, to
Margaret, into her own hand. Write to
Margaret and tell her she is to let you know
the truth, and what her position is — write at
once'' he repeated, as though his sister, who
was thoroughly alarmed, needed any second
telling.

Jean was, on the whole, easier about Grace,
who had made a surprising rally. She was
able to be up and enjoy her meals ; she was
also able to enjoy the visits of no less a person
than Paul Lyons.

Margaret being married and out of his
reach, that young man had conceived a great
affection for her sister, now a very softened
and subdued likeness of herself at Lornbay.

'' You are not Margaret, but you remind me
of her'' he said sentimentally.

'ewe are sisters. I think there is a likeness'*


Grace was extremely amused by his sentiment
and by the little speeches he made her.

She had always rather liked him, and was
always tolerant of the little ways that had so
provoked her high-minded sister.

'^ I am not sure about it, personally," he
said, '^ I meant your voice and your manner,
and something altogether."

^^ We have the same kind of nose," laughed
Grrace. ^' Never mind, Mr. Lyons, I like you
to be loyal to my sister ; I never, never,
could come up to her, and I know it ! "

'^ You — you are more like than you were
last year. Sometimes I think you veri like
Margaret," said Mr. Lyons, consolingly.

'' Thank you. I know that is a very high
compliment from you."

^^ Don't you think, Miss Rivers, that Margaret
might, she might, have been happier
with a fellow like me than with an old
madman like Drayton ? — that's what hurts me
so much," said the young man.

'' Of course she would have been happier,
but everything went wrong," and Grace
blushed vividly. ^^I sent everything wrong,

and, poor, poor darling, she sacrificed herself
to save me. Oh, Mr. Lyons ! you never can
say anything bad enough for me to feel it
unjust. I hate myself more and more everyday,"
and, much to his consternation, Grrace,
usually mocking at tears, shed them now.

^^ I declare you are so like Margaret that I
am getting to be very fond of you'' exclaimed
Paul, ^^ please don't cry, it makes me feel so
funny ! " and he looked unhappy, also.

'^ Oh, if I could do anything ! " exclaimed
poor Grace, who was, now she was stronger,
less able to remain passive, and who was
utterly and entirely miserable about her sister.

^' If one could only shoot the fellow ! " said
Paul, vindictively.

^' You see even if I could go out that
wretched man keeps guard; he will not let
Jean see my poor Margaret. A little while
ago there was a back door, now that is shut
up."

'^ But why does she not walk out of the
house ? "

VOL. II. R

^' Because of her baby. She will not leave
it and he will not allow her to take it with
her, and I do not quite understand about the
law, but even if she took it, they might force
her to send it back to him, so she says.'"*

'' Grrace," said young Lyons, and he looked
as though he had quite made up his mind to
something, '^ I wish you would marry me. I
am quite in earnest," he said, getting very
red at her expression of amazement ; " you
see, if I was her brother I might be of some
use."

Perhaps never was a proposal made so
oddly, and never one so open to offence taken
in such good part.

'^No, Mr. Lyons," said Grace, laughing,
while tears stood in her eyes; *you are a
dear, kind-hearted boy ; do you suppose I
would consent to anything of the kind ? Put
all nonsense out of your head and try to see
if there is anything in the world we can do.
You are more able, you are stronger than I
am ; think ! "

Paul Lyons thought, but he could see noway
of helping Margaret unless she would
help herself.

They neither of them knew what had
only lately happened at the Limes. When
Margaret, her heart full of gratitude about
her writing, a glow of deep and chequered
feeling making her steps lighter, as
she went homewards, had been kept at the
door waiting a weary while.

When at length the servant came Mr. Drayton
was with him, and he had been so excited
and so violent that the man could hardly
control him.

^' I am sure, ma'am, he is mad," he said to
the terrified girl, 'sand I will see and get the
doctor tomorrow ; I cannot well leave him
just now."

'^ Oh, pray, do not leave him ! '' said Margaret,
terrified ; '^ but tomorrow, yes. something
must be done tomorrow."

She had made up her mind, as she stood
trembling before him, that she would go, and

e2

she would take her child ; surely, if he was
mad — and she knew he must be mad — no one
would take her child from her.

Next day, so soon as baby was awake, she
roused the nurse. She had great difficulty in
telling her what she meant to do ; she meant
to go now at once, while, as she thought, her
husband slept, and the nurse might follow
later.

^' He will not wish to detain you," p.he
said, '' once we are safe away."

'^ But who will pay my wages ? " asked the
nurse, who did not at all see why she should
risk her earnings or be left in the house with
a madman when her charge and her mistress
were gone,

^^ Of course that will be all right," said Margaret,
with dignity.

*' Are you sure, ma'am ? because they say
here you had no money, that your sister is
living in a very poor way, and that you
married master for his money."

Margaret's face was one flame.

You are quite forgetting yourself," she
said, and then the sting of these words made
her turn away. Here was a truth — she had
acknowledged to herself — put in the coarsest
possible way to her ! Had she a right to
resent it ?

She dressed her baby and herself, put up a
few necessaries, and then knelt down and
asked for help and guidance. It could not be
wrong to go, for she was sure that her husband
was mad ; she must go and she must take her
baby, who was hers; she was sure if she
stayed that her husband would do her an
injury ; she had long had a vague fear, but
last night had made her tremble ; supposing
he broke out in this way when the man was
not by his side ! She was trembling now as
she went downstairs.

^' Baby must keep quiet," she whispered ;
but how could baby know ? As they passed
her husband's door her frightened and close
embrace alarmed and hurt the child, and she
set up a tremendous roar. Margaret went to

the front door ; no key was there ; she turned
to the drawer to look and found her husband
beside her.

Where are you going ? " he thundered,
holding her shoulder as in a vice.

^' I am going out'' she answered, trying to
speak, quivering with fear all the time.

'' You do not go out at that door ! and
besides how can you go out with your precious
child in the rain ?"

Poor Margaret looked up and there indeed
she saw that it was raining heavily.

Her heart sank and she paused irresolute.

At that moment the key turned in the lock,
and the man came in.

'' I have been to the doctor and he is coming
directly," he said, and with a feeling of being
baffled, though only for the time, poor Margaret
turned her weary steps upstairs.

She was over-excited, and cried with the
passion that comes from weakness, as from
despair.

Then she left her child upstairs, and prepared

to see the doctor. Through him she
would surely be able to arrange something.

No one, she kept saying to herself, would
wish her to stay with a madman, no one could
leave a child in his keeping.

And she went to the sitting-room, and when
she heard the doctor come she fled swiftly towards
him, and took him upstairs to her own
room. She would lay everything before him,
and he would help her.

And he, looking at her flushed face and
great excitement of manner, wondered whether
she was going to tell him about some illness of
her own ; and conscious of a certain ]prejudice
against her, because of her marriage to this
man, and a farewell he had witnessed between
her and — Sir Albert Gerald.

CHAPTER IX.

Since that first interview Dr. Jones had had
with the poor wife his feelings of admiration
and pity had changed a good deal.

The explanation of her position lowered her
considerably in his eyes. Perhaps no one sees
the utter emptiness of life, and the non-importance
of wealth, more than a medical man,
who sees how little happiness it brings to anyone;
how little (standing by itself) it does for
poor humanity.

He was disgusted when he saw that there
was apparently no excuse for her ; and he was
shocked when he saw a farewell between her
and a young man as he passed Mr. Skidd's

shop, because here was evidently a lover. Her
face he could not see, but Sir Albert's expression
was unmistakeable.

Margaret, having no clue to his coldness and
evident disapproval, felt speaking difficult, far
more difficult than she had thought.

^^I want to speak to you," she said, colouring
under his searching gaze. '' I want to tell
you about my husband. I am very miserable,
and I am very much frightened."

'humph!" said Dr. Jones, ^'' let us leave
the misery upon one side, and talk about your
fears ; what makes you afraid ? "

My husband's violence. He was so very
violent yesterday and this morning ; I am
afraid of his doing me an injury — I am afraid
because of my child'' and Margaret shivered.

'^ What made him violent ? "

^'He cannot bear my going out. He never
allows me to go out, I am a prisoner here ! "

He remembered having seen her out, and
in his heart believed she was deliberately
telling horn a lie.

^' What do you want to go out for ? " he
asked, roughly. ^' What do you mean by
Going out' ?"

^' I want to see my sister oftener."

Another lie he thought. ^^ Why don't you
brave him and go ? " he said, trying her ;
^^you might leave him altogether."

^' Because I am told that if I leave he can
keep my child ! " said Margaret, passionately.


'^ Of course he can."

'rit seems so hard' she said.

'' Does it ? I do not agree with you ; why
should a man be deprived of his child anymore
than a woman ? "

'' But if a man — is — mad ? " whispered poor
Margaret.

Oh, that's where you are, is it ! Well, I
do not think that word is applicable here.
There is temper, and there was drink. You
will forgive my saying that, as you married
Mr. Drayton, you took him for better or for
worse. I do not think his health is good,

and his temper is —well, irritable — that is the
worst."

*' Then you cannot help) me ! " and poor
Margaret, who had hoped much from him, felt
cruelly disappointed.

show can I help you?" he asked, impatiently.
" You wish me, for some reason of
your own to say that your husband is mad —
which I have seen nothing to prove — and 1
will not say what I do not believes

^^ I do not wish you to say it ; I wish
nothing but what is true and right: but I
cannot understand how you, a medical man
and experienced, can think Mr. Drayton quite
right, '^ pleaded Margaret ; ^' if you could
only see him as I have seen him ! " and she
stopped, afraid of betraying emotion to one so
evidently lacking in sympathy.

Of course, if I saw him with your eyes,"
began the doctor, coldly, all the more upon
his guard because he was conscious that in
spite of disapproval, in spite of what he knew
and what he had seen, he was beginning to

be influenced by her passionate appeal to
him.

^' We need not discuss this matter any-longer''
said Margaret, rising, and looking
very fair and very pale as she stood in the
full morning light. " For some unknown reason
— unknown to me — you are not my friend ;
after ail, you do not know me. If I find my
life unbearable, I have friends who will help
me!"

^' Now, Mrs. Drayton, answer me a plain
question," and the doctor, rising also, looked
at her with a curious expression of mingled
distrust and rising interest, ^' What have you
to complain of ? Is your husband rough to
you. Has he ever done you any injury ? "
Poor Margaret !

^^ He is rough," she said, with hesitation in
her voice ; ''he uses language new to me.
But if you can see no strangeness in his manner
" . . . . Her voice died away, her hopes
had vanished ; she had a horrible and undefinable
dread — she had seen a wildness in his

eyes, which in a less degree she had seen when
she had first known him ; but our own convictions,
unsupported by any facts, are inconclusive
to other people— and Dr. Jones, seeing
in her a very lovely woman, but one evidently
able to deceive, and who did not hesitate to
say she had no liberty, when he had seen
her alone and out, was steeled against her.

He laid down the law with all the authority
of a man who is fully aware of having right
on his side.

^' Madam, if you have any one tangible
grievance — if your husband ever struck you,
or ill-treated you in any way — then I should
see my way to interfering in your behalf ; the
law protects you in such a case."

"Yes," Margaret answered, bitterly, "you
will interfere, and the law will protect (?) me
when I am injured ; there is no help for me
till the necessity for help has passed away."

She bowed and left him — knowing that her
words were useless, and went to try and comfort
herself, and tri and bear her fate without

a murmur. Had she not sinned, and against
all her convictions, with her eyes open, and
fearing this very thing !

What a very illogical mind she has," said
Dr. Jones, as he stalked downstairs, comfortably
satisfied that he had been firm, and that
her grace, the pathos of her voice, and her
great beauty, had alike been disregarded.
Justice, without doubt, was on his side — he
thought.

But as he stepped on the last step something
made him sensible that there might bea
little truth in what she said. Though she
had told him a deliberate untruth, all might
not be false.

^ He changed his mind about going home
at once, and he went to see Mr. Drayton
instead. He found him very quiet, rather
depressed, without a trace of excitement in
his manner.

Nothing during the interview transpired to
give the slightest colour to the wife's dread ;
and the doctor left, perfectly convinced in his

own mind that Mrs. Drayton was quite in the
wrong, in more ways than one.

Just as he reached the front door and was
full of his own good sense, he heard a sound
that startled him, a loud soul-less meaningless
laughy and as the front door shut upon
him, pulled by his own hand, a quick, sharp
misgiving crossed his mind, and he wished he
had seen the man-servant. He had not thought
it necessary. But his own convictions soon
banished that sudden thought, and the result
of his visit was to confirm his views and to
give rise to many moral reflections on the way
in which glaring faults may be marked by unusual
personal advantages.

His wife, who was shrewd and kind-hearted,
but who had not that deep estimation for his
talents which goes far to make the conjugal
relationship happy, was interested in the poor
wife and mother living in such a singularly
secluded manner. She had only seen her, no
one ever being allowed an entrance to the
Limes, by Margaret's own wish and consent.

when she had found that her husband had a
terrible tendency, and which she had no wish
to alter had she been able to do so, now the
dread had changed.

Mrs. Jones was not a great admirer of her
husband's abilities — indeed she had lived to
find him peculiarly dull in a great many things ;
but lie was very kind to her, and admired
her quickness immensely, so that though the
balance was on the wrong side still it was
there.

Everything passing in his mind she could
generally read pretty clearly, and he did not
object to her doing so. He was always rather
relieved when she brought her mind to bear
upon some perplexity ; and, though as far as
medical cases went, he was very discreet,
there were occasions, of which the present was
one, when it was a substantial comfort to have
his mode of action approved of by her.

Mrs. Jones was one of the women who have
no inclination for prolonged meals, and it was
always a trial to her the deliberation and great

enjoyment evinced by her husband on these
occasions. Some people have no talent for
eating, and except for his sake Mrs. Jones
would never have gone through that ceremony
to which so many cling — of having a succession
of dishes presented one after another,
as though you could not have one thing and
finish with it, she herself would say ; and her
luncheon as often as not, consisted of an apple
or two which she crunched between her fine
white teeth, and a biscuit, the hardness of
which tested their capability.

But she was wise enough to understand that
a good dinner was really an essential to Mr.
Jones, and, without caring about it herself, she
threw herself into the subject, and the result
was eminently satisfactory.

She bore the prolonged meals, in which her
rapid demolition was a standing grievance,
with some work on her lap, work which employed
her active fingers and left her mind free
to apply to any of her husband's interests at
the moment.

VOL. II. s

He had at one time considered this to be
^' not quite the thing," and had questioned its
propriety.

But it is much better for you, if you could
only see it," she had answered. ^* The work
does not prevent my talking, and my dinner
does'' which argument was unassailable.

Mr. Jones had even come to consider there
was great merit in the arrangement, as his
wife never hurried him now, or showed by any
little feminine indications that the time seemed
long.

'^ I am glad, my dear," he said, when he
had arrived at that pleasant stage of afcirs
when his appetite was partially satisfied, and
had yet to be satiated, ^' I am very glad your
acquaintance with Mrs. Drayton went no
further."

c^why?"

^^I am afraid, my dear (speaking of course
in strictest confidence), that she is not quite a
straightforward person''

^^I hardly know any one I consider quite

straightforward, myself," answered Mrs. Jones
calmly. '^ WTiat has she done ? "

^' I think you are making rather a sweeping
assertion, my dear," he said, eyeing with a
momentary misgiving a roast duck ; it looked
overdone.

^' Never mind my assertions, but tell me
what that poor thing has done ? "

'^ Why do you say that poor thing ? I really
do not see why she is to be pitied."

Don't you ? well I do. Do you call the life
she leads a proper life for a young creature
accustomed probably to all the freedom of a
country life in Scotland ? I often think of her,
and I declare sometimes I should like to force
my way into that dismal house, and take her
and her child out of it." Mrs. Jones spoke with
a vehemence quite surprising to her husband.

'^ Really, my dear," he said, ^' the rapid
conclusions you arrive at are bewildering
to my slower mode of thought. You have seen
Mrs. Drayton once, and you are ready immediately
to credit her with weariness, and the

s2

house is a substantial house and very well furnished,
and . . . . "

'' Do you suppose curtains and carpets can
make a woman happy?" asked Mrs. Jones,
severely.

^' They do something towards it, I think,
judging from your own great anxiety upon the
subject."

Mr. Jones had some reason for this statement.


'' All I have to say is that that poor young
creature's heart is broken — yes, broken. I
never saw any one so thoroughly and utterly
miserable as she is."

Mr. Jones was startled but not convinced.

^^I saw her the other day, though not to
speak to," Mr. Jones went on. ^^She went to
Skidd's, and I was going in also, but as you
objected to my being mixed up with her I
drew back. A friend of hers happened to go
there on business, and she welcomed him, and
I saw her face, and its expression has haunted
me ever since."

*' As you saw her out with your own eyes,
you can understand that when she talks of
never going out that is not a perfectly true
statement," and Mr. Jones, who was longing
to have his own slight misgivings set at rest
by his wife, took off his spectacles, rubbed
imaginary specs off their polished surface,
and replaced them. »

'^ One swallow does not make a summer'*
said Mrs. Jones, with as much contempt in her
meaning as she thought befitting. ^'It is a fact
known to every one here that she has only
been seen once, and that she is kept exactly as
though the Limes was a prison and her husband
a jailer."

'^ Really, my dear, in these days such expressions
are quite absurd."

^' Their being absurd does not make them
false, and I trust that if you can in any way
help that poor thing you will."

^^If she went out once she can do so
again."

'' Not at all a certainty ; she may have

managed it once, and yet because she did soit
may be made impossible for her."

'sit strikes me, my dear, that you know
more about it all than I imagined," said Dr.
Jones, with a sudden perception which for him
was really acute.

'' I know this, that Mr. Drayton refused her
sifter shelter on the worst night we have had ;
that the sisters are orphans devotedly attached
to each other ; that one sister is ill, and that
the other is a prisoner, therefore they cannot
meet. They have one or two friends, and the
only thing that puzzles me is why the friends
do not interfere."

'^ My dear," and Dr. Jones spoke with great
irritation, ^'how can any one interfere? There
is nothing wrong about the man. 1 saw him
to-day. 1 am not going to proclaim him mad
to please his wife or any one else."

'^ Then she appealed to you ? "

^' She told me a long story. She wanted
more liberty. How can I interfere ? "

^*Aud she asked you if her husband was
—that ? "

^^ Was what?"

'' Mad."

^' She said something, but as I had seen
her out, and she said she could not go out,
I did not feel very much inclined to take
her view of the question," said the doctor,
obstinately.

^' Why are you prejudiced against her ? "

'^ Because I saw her meet the friend you
speak of, and I drew my own conclusions''

^^ Well, you ought to be ashamed of yourself,"
said Mrs. Jones, very warmly, "thoroughly
ashamed of yourself. As it happens the meeting
was a pure accident. Mr. Skidd has been
publishing some poetry ; he told me about it
at first ; in fact he showed the first poem tome,
and asked me what I thought," said Mrs.
Jones, not without a pardonable little glow of
satisfaction. '' I thought it beautiful. Then
the editor of some magazine in London came
down and arranged to have all she wrote.

He called by accident and met Mrs. Drayton,
and they talked business. How you can put
such an ill-natured construction on so simple
a thing I cannot make out."

'^ My dear, 1 really — putting two and two
together — I thought ''

'^ I shall be afraid of speaking to any one
now for fear of your seeing evil in it — Mr.
Paul Lyons, for instance — I shall refuse to
shake hands with him."

*^ My dear, I wish you would not go off at a
tangent like that. It is a very different thing.
You are not in her position ; you are not young
and beautiful, and What in the world
is the matter now?"

His wife rushed out of the room, and disdained
answering him.

In the meantime Jean was bravely facing
all her difficulties. Her principal difficulty was
that she had a woman to deal with in the shape
of a landlady who was what Jean termed a
slippery " creature. When she found that
Jean looked after things she was impertinent ;

but that had no effect. Jean looked over her
head and ignored her altogether.

Then she took to being disobliging, and
would neither answer a bell nor give any help.
Her next move was to let the kitchen fire out
perpetually, and when Jean wanted to heat
some soup and get anything hot there was no
fire.

She calculated that as Grace was very ill
and could not be moved, she would get the
best of it in the long run.

But Jean was not a woman who would allow
herself to be put out of it without giving her
opinion and trying to remedy matters. She
had a great contempt for the ^^wishy-washy"
voice and untidy ways of Mrs. Cripps, a
woman who lived in a black cap, and knew
nothing of any but baker's bread, and could
neither make ^^ a scone or even oat-bread, let
be bannocks," Jean said to Grace when she
was dwelling upon the shortcomings of the
house one day.

''I am glad," said Grace, laughing. '^ I

never cared for oat-bread. I always feel, if I
ever try to eat it, that I am eating sand; please
do not be offended."

'' I'll take no offence where none is meant,"
said Jean, quietly; '^ and people are not a'
born wi' a good taste."

The landlady tried in vain to speak her
high-bred English, and to put herself above
her. There are a good many like her that
cannot distinguish between provincialism and
vulgarity. Jean had a ready tongue, and,
though she assured Grace that she kept it
well between her teeth, the landlady heard it
occasionally, and felt it in all its roughness.

The skirmishes were invariably amusing to
Grrace, who used to lie in her chair and laugh
over the scenes afterwards, and tell them to
Paul Lyons, who showed how little any real
love had existed for her by the way in which
he still came to see her and to hear of Margaret.


She could not help asking herself what she
gained in all this unhappiness; she was as

badly off as ever. She was still dependent on
Mr. Sandford. She was living in a tiny-lodging.
She disliked the doctor, and never
would see him if she could help it, and the
sister, who had all their lives been her one
great stay and support, had no liberty to come
and see her.

She had planned her life so differently, and
it came vividly before her. How proud she
had always been of the cleverness, which tested
at length, had failed in every particular. But
once she rallied, hers was not at all the nature
to dwell-upon unpleasant things. The first
day she went out she drove to the Limes,
taking Jean with her, and they asked for
Mrs. Drayton.

Mrs. Drayton is out," said the man-servant,
who did not dare say otherwise.

'' Hoot! man," said Jean, '^ you need not tell
me that. Why, Mrs. Drayton is never out."

^^ Shut that door immediately," called out
an angry voice, and Vir. Drayton, looking very
haggard and wild, came to the door.

^^ My sister ! I want to see my sister'' and
Grace held out her hands imploringly.

Mr. Drayton came down the steps and
looked at her; then he made a perfectly diabolical
face, burst into a roar of laughter, and
slammed the door in her face.

Grace, weak and terrified, clung to Jean as
they went home. " What shall we do ? What
shall we do ? " she sobbed. '' Oh, Jean I that
man is mad, and she, my poor Margaret, is in
his power ! "

'^ Whist, my dear bairn," said Jean, who was
nigh upon tears herself. '^ Whist ! I think we
will be guided," she said, reverently, and she
sat silent for a few minutes. " I doubt we will
have to speak to the police," she added, as
that brilliant idea came to console her.

Grace wrote a letter to Mrs. Dorriman that
night, in which she told her all she knew, all
she feared, for the first time; she expressed
her gratitude for all the kindness she had
received ; for the first time she acknowledged
that she was to blame, and she asked to express

something of her feeling to Mr. Sandford.


This done she felt more happy than she had
done lately, and rose next day trusting that in
some way her sister's freedom would be
brought about.

Mr. Lyons called early, and was delighted
to receive her confidence. Might he go and
call ? Surely there could be no harm, he
asked, anxiously ; it might save time.

^' It would only make matters worse for my
sister," Grace said, ^' and you would do no
good."

^' But it will show that she — that your sister
has friends near her."

'^ That very fact might rouse him to more
violence, and my sister would suffer."

^' I might go and call on In. I do not
believe he would be violent if I asked for him.
I am afraid he knows me, otherwise I might
take some circulars and call upon him about
business."

^' As if you know anything about business."

^^ I assure you I have been very hard at
work lately. I have gone into the question of
employment very seriously."

I doubt your having done anything seriously,"
laughed Grace.

^' That is rather hard on a fellow, when a
fellow has really tried."

'' Come, Mr. Lyons, what have you tried?"

'^ I have offered myself as an agent to begin
with. Agency is a very good thing. You
spend no money yourself, and other people's
money sticks to your fingers ; it is really a
very simple thing."

'^ And what are you agent for, may I ask? '*

'^ Oh I the appointment is not confirmed,
but I think I am on the high road to it. It
does not much matter what it is as long as
you can get people to buy. I have at this
moment two things before me, of which I have
really a very fair chance''

^' Have you ? "

'rare you sufficiently interested, Miss Rivers,
to hear what they are ? "

^' I am doing my best to show my interest
by listening to you with both my ears."

'^ Ah ! but you are not giving me your undivided
attention. You are knitting, and just
now I quite distinctly heard you count five.
A fellow cannot talk of his prospects to a girl
while she counts five," Mr. Lyons said, in a
tone of disgust, and looking round the room
appealing to an imaginary audience.

I will not count again — only just this once.
I have made a mistake already ; " and Grace
wrinkled her forehead and became absorbed
in her work for a few moments.

'' Miss Rivers, will you really let a fellow
talk to you ? life and death does not hang upon
a few stitches more or less."

No, but a sock does ; and dear Mrs. Dorian
took such pains to teach me to make one."

'' You are always knitting," the young man
said, discontentedly.

''No; only when I feel very good," she
answered, gravely ; '' then I knit all kinds of
things into my sock."

'^ What sort of things — colours ? that thing
looks all the same colour to me."

Oh, I do not mean material things, but
sorrow and penitence — and the bitterest repentance,"
she added the last words in a lower
tone, and her eyes were concealed under
lowered lids ; then she sighed.

Mr. Lyons sighed also, he had a very good
idea what she referred to.

To return to your wishes," said Grace,
laughing a little, to carry off a feeling of
awkwardness at having shown emotion ; 'what
do you wish to tell me ? "

It — it sounds a little frivolous now. I
only wanted to say I have tried to get into
every agency you can think of. I have gone
steadily down the alphabet and picked out
everything you can think of. It is quite
astonishing how many things there are to be
canvassed for. I did the Ws yesterday, and
the X's and Y's to-day. I took the Ws out
of their turn because of wine ; there are such
an enormous number of firms who sell or want

to sell the only drinkable wine; and it is a
subject I know a little about."
*' And you got nothing ? "
*' Considerably less than nothing. One
question was asked— introductions — references,
and, as I had never thought of an introduction,
and could refer to no one as to my ability — I
was bowed out. I met with civility, I will
say ; I had on my best coat, and that tells'*
he said, in a tone of satisfaction,

"Perhaps something may turn up," Grrace
answered brightly.

I hope so ; you see, I never could do much
more than sign my name — my handwriting is
simply abominable. It has happened to me to
have my address and signature cut out of my
own letter and pasted on as the only way
of solving the problem of where I lived, and
then it sometimes wandered about a good
deal before it reached me ; " and he laughed
at the recollection. Grace laughed with
him.

But what is your plan as regards Margaret,

VOL. II. T

my poor darling sister ? " she asked, and her
countenance changed.

If I was agent to something in which Mr.
Drayton was interested I could ask to see him
on business, and if I could only get a recommendation
or introduction to him all would
be easy; once in the house I am not afraid."
The young man drew up his head and looked
quite ready for anything that might happen.

Grrace clasped her hands. " I think it is a
very good plan," she exclaimed, "and I can
help you a little myself. What do you call a
manufactory that turns out horrible smells,
and kills trees and plants and things ''

'^ Artificial manures ? " he said, pulling a list
out of his pocket and referring to it.

Oh, dear no' said Grace, impatiently, ^'it
makes all the trees look like skeletons. Whoever
heard of manure killing anything? it
makes them grow."

I spoke without thinking, only remembering
that that made an appalling smell, quite
enough to kill everything."

^' Well, think, with all your might, or, still
better, think, and give me your list — and if
I saw the name I should know it — and you can
think in the meantime," said Grace, speaking
very quickly.

I have it ! " she exclaimed, joyfully pointing
with her finger to it and holding out the
paper to him. '' Chemical works ! now do not
forget, chemical, chemical, chemical — say it
over and over again, for fear of forgetting it.
Well, Mr. Lyons, at Eenton there is a huge
large chemical work, and Mr. Drayton used
to go there constantly. I remember his saying
one day that he had invested money — a quantity
of money — in these things''

That will do then'' he said. '' I will
boldly ask for Mr. Drayton tomorrow morning,
and ask if he is still interested in the Renton
chemical works. You will see, all will go
well."

'^ I pray that it may. I shall write a long
letter to my poor darling and entreat her to
tell me exactly the state of the case. Lie has

tso

much cleverness that I cannot understand
her not coming to see me. She must have
some difficulty to contend with we know
nothing of."

'task her to suggest some plan herself, if
she requires help of any kind," said young
Lyons.

'^ Yes, only she is so horribly conscientious,
she may make difficulties. Her spirit seems
so broken."

^' Hearing that man laugh is quite enough
to make one wish never to laugh again. However,
now that I have something definite to do
I feel happier. Oh ! if all only goes well.

'^I hope Lady Lyons is not uneasy about
your being so much away.'*'

''No, she is quite accustomed to my erratic
movements. Good-bye, and if . . "

He stopped, turned very red, and went
swiftly out of her presence.

CHAPTER X.

Margaret found the days pass on with a
monotony which was very terrible to her. At
times her husband joined her at dinner, but
she never knew when to expect him. Sometimes
he came into the nursery, when he would
sit watching her and the child, in whom her
love (starved in every other direction) centred
so completely.

She learned to be horribly afraid of him.
She could not understand how the doctor
could reconcile it to his conscience to speak of
him as sane ; there was such a wildness in his
eyes, and a vagueness in his laughter, which
made her shiver with fright.

She forgot the great cunning that forms so
great a feature in some kind of insanity, and,
always viewing him with nervous eyes, she

heard him speak rationally at times without
noticing it, because her mind was always on
the stretch, and mental anxiety is apt to distort
everything. He had generally, however, fits of
silence when she was only conscious of his
eyes gleaming at her from under the shaggy
eyebrows, and these prolonged periods of silence
were far, far more acceptable to her than his
terrible laugh. Each day she prayed with all
her soul for health and strength — she tried,
poor child, to do her duty, and, sometimes full
of pity for his evident supreme unhappiness,
she tried to talk to him and to interest him in
their child. He watched her unceasingly. In
the garden, where now spring flowers were
coming out, where the birds began to chirp
and twitter, and where the trees showed green,
and another spring had come to gladden the
earth.

It brought no rejoicing to her heart, because
there must be a responsive chord somewhere,
and to enter into the fair happiness of spring
the pulses must be able to beat a little quickly,

and some sympathy between the great new
birth of the year and the soul must be possible.
The cheerfulness of outside nature seemed
almost a mockery to her — just as the overflowing
mirth of a casual acquaintance jars upon
one in sorrow.

Her writing began to be noticed, and at
times her nurse, who had been unsympathetic
and suspicious at first, but who had grown to
love her, managed to bring her carefully-written
letters from Grrace, and news from the outside
world, though Margaret seldom dared to ask
her to make the attempt, she was so afraid that
this one human being in whom she had begun
to have trust might be taken from her. She
dreaded night because, though locked in with
her child, the nurse sleeping in an adjoining
room, she would often wake in a paroxysm of
terror, thinking that in some way her husband
had gained an entrance to her room, and that
he was threatening her and her child.

She was walking in the garden with her
sorrowful thoughts, watching her little darling.

when the front door-bell rang loudly, a sound
so seldom heard as to be startling to her.

Mr. Drayton, who used to sit in a room off
the front hall, of which the window commanded
the garden, went as usual into the hall to see
that no one went out or came in, and heard
his own name mentioned by a peremptory
and loud-voiced man, who demanded instant
admission, to see him on urgent business.

*' Tell him I have done with business, I
refuse to see him."

^' But you will be extremely sorry if you do
not see me," said the stranger in a still louder
tone. ^' You thought you had made a mess of
those chemical work shares, but you have
been a far, far cleverer man than we gave
you credit for. Those shares Mr. Sandford
laughed at "

'' Come in here, come in here'' said Mr.

Drayton, rubbing his hands with glee. ^^ So I

was right, and that old fool was wrong, hah !

hah ! hah ! '' and he laughed uproariously.

The stranger walked into the small room ;

he could hardly believe, he said, thai Mr,
Drayton's acute intelligence had been laughed
at. What shares had he had in those works ;
what papers had he to show ? Perhaps that
was a matter of no moment. If the shares
had been sold why it was a misfortune,
unless he could buy them back before the
discovery, the great discovery, was made
known.

What discovery ? " asked Mr. Drayton, ina
moment suspicious.

That you were right and every one else
wrong."

How has that discovery been made ? "

By experiment."

Yes ; but who made the experiment ? "

The stranger leaned forward and said in a
low voice, '^ You remember your manager, the
man who left you ? "

'^ Remember him ! You do not mean to say
he is in the thick of this —the scoundrel, the —
the rascal." Then suspicion came to him
again.

^^ What interest in all this have you?" he
asked, very angrily, and glaring at the stranger
fiercely.

^ Interest ? you do not suppose I have come
to you for nothing; that would be rather a
good joke," and he laughed heartily.

'^ Of course not, of course not. But from what
motive ? No one does anything for nothing,"
and Mr. Drayton put on an air of wisdom, in
which cunning was very visible.

^^I should think not, indeed; and 1 am not
working for nothing, I can tell you. In the
first place, a friend of mine has been most
abominably treated — shockingly, shamefully
treated ! "

^^ By whom?"

'' By some one connected with these works "
(and I am sure that is true, said Paul Lyons
to himself, since he, this man, has been connected
with them).

'^ Can't you tell his name ? "

'' No, I can't, it would spoil all my plans if
I did " (and so it would, he thought).

^^ I do not believe in disinterested friendships."


^' Nor do I ; but I intend having a reward."

^^From me, I suppose," and Mr. Drayton
laughed again.

^^From you — and from some one else. If
my ideas are correct — you would not grudge
me a good percentage, eh ? "

^' What do you call a good percentage ? "

'' Well, I want half ; I want fifty per cent."

^^ Fifty per cent. ! nonsense, absolute nonsense."


^^ You have no right to say ' nonsense ' ; and
I think I am wasting my time " (which is also
true, it is quite wonderful how I have been
able to speak the truth to-day), and Paul Lyons
felt a glow of satisfaction at this reflection.

I don't know what you're driving at ; "
and Mr. Drayton looked so furiously at him
that Paul Lyons thought if he ever favoured
Margaret with such a glance it was enough to
give her a fit.

^' I am driving at nothing," he said, with a

very good show of anger. ^'I don't pretend
that I shan't be abominably annoyed if you do
not go into this matter, because I see my way
to making some money, but it seems to me
that you have no papers to show me, and that
you do not understand this matter very much ;
I believe I had better go — time, as far as I am
concerned, is too precious to waste."

He rose and made a movement towards the
door. Mr Drayton put his hand to his forehead
; he felt confused ; he never now could
follow a thought for any time, but his cunning
made him anxious to conceal this.

You can stop," he said, speaking a little
thickly, and more slowly. " I have some
papers upstairs."

'' Let your servant fetch them "
'' No ; certainly not. I will go myself."
He left the room, and Paul threw up the
window, flung out a packet, and closed it
again.

Margaret saw the packet fall, but she also
saw her husband at the upstairs window;

therefore, to the young man's disappointment,
she continued walking along, holding her little
one's hand, and took no notice.

Mr. Drayton returned, holding some papers
in his hands.

^^ What did you open the window for ? " he
asked, and Paul saw that his suspicions were
again aroused.

'^ Open the window ! " he answered, with
great presence of mind. '^ My dear Mr.
Drayton, if you said that to any one else you
would be accused of having delusions ! "

Mr. Drayton glared at him, and said no
more. Paul took the papers and glanced them
over ; they were lists in Mr. Drayton's own
hand writing ; and lists no sane man would
have written. Here and there a number put
down, and a long rambling note about someone
supposed to have injured him ; remarks
about a man who took various shapes, and who
made fiendish faces at him ; and things of that
sort.

Paul Lyons was not experienced in cases of

the kind ; this man, whom he felt to be insane
(though evidently having lucid intervals), was
a new revelation to him ; but his heart beat
violently. He had seen poor Margaret's face,
and had recognised that she was pining under
the influence of confinement, and probably
terrors ; and he felt sure that in his hand he
held proofs that must be listened to — that he
had that now in his possession which must
ensure her freedom.

He affected to hunt for papers in his own
pockets, and said carelessly, as he crammed
the papers into the breast-pocket of his coat,
I will look these over and compare them with
what I have at home. Shall I find you at
home tomorrow, Mr. Drayton ? "

There was no answer, and looking up at him
he saw that he was looking out of the window
with a face full of malignancy — there was
something horrible in his expression as he
watched poor Margaret, who had seen the
packet, and who had not dared to lift it yet.
She had passed close to it once or twice, and

had pushed it under a bush with a careless
kick. Taken aback by this sign of animosity
towards Margaret, Paul Lyons did not know
what to do.

He was afraid of making: things worse for
her, and yet he could not bear going without
giving and receiving a sign from her.

'^ Is that not your wife ? " he asked suddenly.
Will you not introduce me to her ? "

'' Quite impossible, sir — quite impossible.
My wife is not all there ; she is mad, poor
thing, very mad."

'•' Is she indeed ? Well, all the same I should
like to speak to her, I should like to make sure
that this is not another of your . . . . " He
stopped short.

'' Another of my ! Finish, pray finish,

my dear sir;" and Mr. Drayton spoke in a tone
of suppressed fury.

"Delusions' said the young man, calmly,
trying to remember all the various theories
about subduing a madman by the expression
of the eye, and staring at him hard, conscious
all the time of failure.

With sudden fury Mr. Drayton turned upon
him, ''I believe you to be an impostor, an
impostor, sir, do you hear ? and you have come
here to do me an injury ; " he moved towards
him threateningly.

'^ Sir," answered Paul, understanding
directly that it was no moment for trifling,
'^ I shall go and I shall tell all the world that
Mr. Sandford is right ; you understand nothing
of business ; you are abusive— and, in short,
no one can make anything of you."

As he spoke Mr. Drayton nearly grasped
him, but he had youth and activity on his side,
and he slipped away from him and stood by
the window, having thrown down all the
chairs.

snow, sir," he said, '^ I intend seeing for
myself if Mrs. Drayton is mad." Before Mr.
Drayton could get round the obstructions he
had opened the window, which was not many
feet from the ground, and alighted on the
lawn close to where Margaret, with deadly
anxiety lest the packet should never come into

her possession, paced to and fro — she had her
child still with her.

'' Your husband is mad' said Paul in a
hurried whisper, ^' I hold proofs, and you will
be rescued." He stooped and picked up the
child, anxious to try and pacify Mr. Drayton
now he had spoken those few words to poor
Margaret, and forgetting that the child, unaccustomed
to any strangers, might be
frightened.

The little one, who had been unusually
fretful all the morning, which was the reason
Margaret tried to amuse it in the fresh air
for a longer time than usual, uttered the most
piercing shrieks, and just as Mr. Drayton
came up to them almost foaming at the mouth.
She struggled, and kicked, and clutched hold
of the wig, which had made Paul Lyons
unrecognisable, even to Margaret, and tore it
off, revealing his curly hair.

A perfect roar burst from Mr. Drayton.

Margaret, soothing her child in her arms,
watched with terror-stricken eyes the terrible

VOL. II. u

struggle that then ensued. The one man,
heavier and stronger with rage, and the other,
lithe and pliable, keeping him at times at bay,
and at others closing with his adversary. As
they neared the little side door, Margaret
saw it open slowly, and saw the manservant
there.

In a moment she seized the packet and
rushed into the house, and upstairs, never
taking breath till the doors were locked
behind her, and that she was safe in her room
with the child, from whence she could see the
road.

The struggle went on and Paul was nearly
overpowered, when the servant interfered, and,
catching hold of Mr. Drayton's uplifted arm,
told Paul to go.

I will go if you will promise to protect
Mrs. Drayton from this madman till help come
to her," he gasped, bruised and breathless, but
feeling that it had not all been a failure since
he had given her hope.

^' She won't hurt'' said the man, '^ but I'm

not going to sto23. I would not stay with
him," he said, contemptuously, ^^not for double
the money''

But you will stay till some one comes, will
you not'' Paul asked, more afraid than ever.

^' He'll have to look sharp then," said the
man. ^' I've told the doctor my mind, and that
its a case of asylum, but he did not choose
he does not choose, to believe me, and I am
not going to stay here to be murdered, I can
tell you. It's two men's work to look after
him, and he's that cunning he speaks the
doctor fair when he comes, and the doctor's
a fool besides."

Paul lost no time — he rushed out of the
house and made his way to an hotel, where
he tried to remove all signs of the frightful
struggle he had just had, and to sally forth
before his old spruce self.

What ought to be his first step ? He nest
lose no time — leaving Margaret even for a
day in the power of that madman was horrible
to him,

V 2

Even Grace was not thought of ; clutching
his papers, he went to the magistrate who
presided over the district court and sent in
his card and asked for an interview. At first
he was received with natural suspicion, his
face was swollen and he looked altogether as
though he had been mixed up in a fray,
though his dress was so carefully arranged —
but the merit of reality was there, and he
sketched in glowing colours poor Margaret's
position and the treatment he had received,
and what he feared for her, in simple language
free from exaggeration.

The magistrate consulted his clerk and
sundry authorities with a deliberation truly
maddening.

^' I am searching for a precedent," he said,
looking up at young Lyons, who was almost
stamping with impatience.

He turned over leaves, backwards and forwards,
and read and re-read passages pointed
out to him by the clerk. Then he looked
up, a bright idea having dawned upon him,

and, keeping his first finger on a particular
line, said :

^^ Are you the lady's nearest male relation?"

^^ No, I am not. Her only male relation
is very ill in Scotland''

Are you any relation of hers ? "

^^ No ; I am her friend."

"My clear sir," said the magistrate, 'why
take up my time in this way ? You have no
right to interfere — there is no precedent for
such a thing, no precedent at all," and he got
up and stood leaning his knuckles on the
table and looking at Paul L3^ons as though
his ignorance of the law was almost worthy of
compassion.

'' Will you advise me, sir? What am I todo
? Can you not tell me how T must set to
work? Surely your experience can help me."

** No, sir ; I really cannot take the responsibility
of doing this — the lady's nearest
relations must take the matter up. You had
better not in t erf ere''

'^ And if the lady has no relations ? "

'^ That, sir, is a position — hem the law
never contemplated such a position. I really
must beg you to withdraw now, you are
taking up the time of the (he was going to
say court but he corrected himself) — you are
taking up my time, sir."

With hidden rage, poor Paul left him, and
found himself in the street. What was the right
thing to do ? How could he help her ?

He went to see Grace to consult with her ;
she cried and then laughed, and go t quite
hysterical.

^' Oh ! you foolish boy, I am her nearest
relation, and I will send for the doctor ; they
sent him to me, but I got rid of him, I disliked
him so much. We will have him here, and I
will see if I cannot talk him into helping us."

She wrote a note and sent it off, and Paul,
who by this time knew he had hc;d no food fora
long time, went off to his hotel, promising to
be back again to meet the doctor and tell him
the state of matters.

The picture he had drawn of Mr. Drayton's

violence filled Grace with anxiety. She moved
about restlessly, filling up the time by trying
various occupations and throwing each aside
one after another.

Jean, coming to see if she wanted anything,
found her in a fever, and when she heard all
was nearly " demented' to use her own
expression. She talked and remonstrated and
suggested all in a breath. The police, that
would be a help.

When Mr. Lyons returned, this idea was given
to him by Grace, and he was inclined to think it
might help. He went off to find the superintendent,
and was met by fresh difficulties.

The superintendent asked what he was
afraid of, and laughed at the idea of his being
called upon to protect a lady who had made
no complaint. Urged by Paul at length he said,

^' I will tell the man on that beat to look out,
and if he hears screams "

^' He will of course at once get admittance,"
said Paul, eagerly, horrified to hear his own
fears put into actual words.

The superintendent smiled — a superior smile,

^^ No, sir," he must not enter any man's
house unless he is called in, it would be
breaking the law."

'^ Then he must wait till murder is committed
before interfering".

*^ Well, you see, sir, little rows and things
cannot be interfered with unless one of the
parties asks for help."

^'It seems to me'' said Paul, driven nearly
to despair, 'that the laws all round want
a good deal of amendment."

'' Perhaps so, sir, I'm sure I cannot say, but
I have to see that my men do their duty, and
that they do not exceed it."

Paul went back to tell Grace that the man
on the beat was to be at hand, and it did not
occur to her fortunately to ask what good being
at hand would do for Margaret. But she had
found out through the landlady that if two
doctors declared Mr. Drayton to be mad, they
could get a magistrate's order and have him
put under restraint.

'rafter all, you have done a great deal more
than I have done; I have wasted my day, and
done nothing," said poor Paul, who was fairly
tired out. Grace did not contradict him ; so far
from thinking she had done much she felt as
though all the real effort, all the great trial, had
yet to come.

She awaited with impatience the arrival of
the doctor, turning over in her own mind after
her usual fashion what she should say and how
she should say it.

On his arrival he was surprised to find her
sitting up when he had imagined her very ill ;
he stopped short, and gazed at her a little helplessly
— what did she want with him ?

As may be remembered, he had not been
accustomed to much beauty, and was always
on his guard against being influenced by it in
an undue manner.

Grace was not so beautiful as Margaret, but
she was not like the ordinary women he had
seen ; he had got into a groove of very middle-aged
ladies, and, seeing them in private, saw

them bereft of those adornments which concealed
the ravages of time from the outside world.

Grace with her rippling hair tumbling over
her shoulders, a heightened colour and sparkling
eyes, prejudiced him directly.

So handsome a young woman must be certainly
very wicked. Doctor Jones is not the
only person in the world who imagines that
goodness and plainness walk hand in hand.
He prepared from the first therefore to act on
the defensive, and his tone, asking, ^^ You
wished to see me, madam," was distinctly
aggressive, and Grace, sensitive and anxious,
recognized the tone and felt that at the outset
she was met with a difficulty.

'' Doctor Jones, you have seen and you
know my sister, Mrs. Drayton."

'^ I have seen her; I cannot say that I
know her ; one cannot know a person just by
seeing them for a moment or two."

swell," said Grace, a little impatiently,
'' you know her husband, Mr. Drayton ? "

'' Slightly ; yes, slightly, I do know him''

'^ Do you know that he is — mad ? "

^'No, I know nothing of the kind. Who
says so, Miss Rivers ? "

'^I how it' said Grace, ^^ and something
must be done immediately ! " She sjDoke with
rising excitement.

^^ I cannot understand what you're driving
at."

^^ Doctor Jones, a friend of ours went there
to-day; he saw Mr. Drayton, and he told me
if something was not done immediately he
was quite quite certain that my sister will
suffer. I am afraid for her poor child."

Is she afraid for herself ? " he asked, with
a disagreeable smile.

*show can I tell?" said Grace, angrily
; '' he does not allow her to move
without him ; she is a very prisoner m that
terrible house, she cannot come and see me ;
she escaped once and he has taken means to
prevent her ever coming again. He does not
allow her to go to church or to see a single
soul. He must be mad, he is mad ! "

^* If I were Mr. Drayton and had a wifelike
your sister I would do the same, Miss
Rivers''

'what do you mean?" she cried, passionately.


^' Miss Rivers, your sister did not even allow
to me that she had been out once. I saw her ;

I saw her meet her I know it was her

lover, in a shop."

Grace stared at him for a moment, and then
she laughed wildly and hysterically.

^^ Poor Paul!" she said; 'imagine, only
imagine, being taken for Margaret's lover ! "

Doctor Jones rose; he was exceedingly
affronted.

'^ You and your sister, madam, must find a
less honest man to help you carry out your
wicked plans against poor Mr. Drayton's
happiness. I am incorruptible ! " and, with
his head well in the air and a strong sense of
virtuous resistance to beauty and blandishments,
he prepared to go.

'' Doctor Jones," said Grace, her burst of

laughter over, '^ you have said a very wicked
and a very ridiculous thing, but you had better
go away. After your fancying any thing-wrong
about Margaret I cannot bear seeing
you. Wliy, the only excuse for you is, that
you are probably as mad as Mr. Drayton."

'^ Madam, you may throw off the mask now
and be impertinent, but nothing you say will
move me. I am not going to declare a man
mad when I believe him to be sane, to suit you
or any one else."

^' It does not in the least matter," said
Grrace, coolly, and speaking from the inspiration
of the moment, ^' for the man whom I
shall probably marry if I get strong, the man
you imagine to be my sister's lover, will be
here soon, and he will most likely bring Sir
Augustus Jermyn down with him. I have
great faith in Mm and Sir Augustus will
probably prefer naming the second medical
man himself."

Doctor Jones was very much taken aback.
It was hard that being an honest man should

prevent his being thrown with so eminent a
man.

I — I should have no objection to meeting
Sir Augustus and giving him my opinion. I
should feel proud to assist him in forming a
judgment."

'' I have no doubt of it," said Grace, sarcastically,
'but nothing will induce me now
to mention your name to Sir Augustus. You
have too completely prejudged and misjudged
my dearest sister. You see her meet
a friend, a friend much attached to us both,
and jump immediately to iniquitous conclusions.
Leave me ! I never will forgive you,
and if anything happens to my sister on you
will the whole responsibility fall."

Doctor Jones retired, endeavouring to comfort
himself with the reflection that he had
acted purely from a sense of right. But that
small, still voice — that voice that may be
listened to or not but is always there —
convicted him. He knew that because he
thought Margaret in the wrong he had been

resolved not to agree with her. He got
positively hot with sudden tremor. What if
Sir Augustus came, and found the man really
mad ! His opinion would henceforth be valueless,
and just as he thought this, the remembrance
of Mr. Drayton's laugh was most
uncomfortably present to him.

He said nothing to his wife of this ; he must
not lower himself in her opinion at any rate.

When he left the room Grace began to try
and think if Paul had ever spoken of meeting
Margaret. By degrees then it all came to her.
Sir Albert Gerald must have met her, and that
reptile of a doctor had seen them speak to
each other. At the time she had forgotten
this.

How difficult life was to her just now, and
the fears for Margaret came to her in fuller
force than ever.

Jean came into the room, her big Bible under
her arm, her eyes shining with a look of content
and peace. She noticed Grace's troubled expression,
and she stroked her long hair.

"" My bairn," she said, ^^ it's a troublous
world at times I know."

^^ It is all sent for the best," said Grace,
giving utterance to the platitude nearest her
lips at the moment

^^ Oh ! do not say that. You must na say
that. We make evil to ourselves, God does
not send it."

'' He allows it," murmured Grace.

'' Bairn, I ask you, and answer from your
own conscience : Who brought all this weary
trouble upon us ? "

She stood like an inspired sybil, her brown
face and homely features lighted by a Divine
truth, and Grace, looking up, conscience-stricken,
could only answer the truth, slowly
and solemnly,

*^ It was I, Jean, I myself."

END OF VOL. II.

Westminster : Printed by Nichols and Sons, 25, Parliament Street.

^ -r :jjij^v>; > ;

OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS

8Z3
C427m
V.3

Jt Itowl.

HON. MRS. HENRY W. CHETWYND,

AUTHOR OF

LIFE IN A GERMAN VILLAGE," " THE DUTCH COUSIN,"

"A MARCH VIOLET," "BEES AND BUTTERFLIES,"

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. Il

LONDON: CHAPMAN and HALL
Limited



PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

MRS. Dorian

CHAPTER I.

Spring struggling through smoke and fog,
dingy sparrows playing on the grass, and a
careworn face looking upon it all.

The lines left by youth deepen and become
more conspicuous in age, and one can generally
read the story of the three first decades in the
faces of older people. Mrs. Dorriman, suffering
in her youth from injustice and a want
of affection, bore the marks of both ; nothing
but her real sweetness of temper had saved
her from peevishness, for fretfulness is as much
the result of perpetual repression in one

VOL, III. B

feeble by nature, as violbiice and anger is the
outcome of an unchecked temper in youth.

But, as Mrs. Dorriman looked upon the
smoky sparrows and the grass showing green
under difficulties, she noticed that the birds
were contending and not playing, they each
wanted a long straw, envied it. Alone they
could not lift it, and yet they would not
combine their efforts, and after all it had
to be left there to the mercy of the wind.
Their ineffectual single efforts in so hopeless a
cause seemed to the poor little lady typical of
humanity, wasting their time struggling for
the unattainable, and never seeing how perfectly
fruitless are their efforts.

She was roused from this common-place
reflection by the entrance of the servant.

Mr. Sandford, better, and busy at his
writing-table, had much changed since his
last attack. He was rough in manner still,
and his speech was imperious because the
habit of a life-tire is not easily broken, butin
various ways he showed his sister how

much lie had learned to value her. His own
consciousness of not being quite the same —
which however he never alluded to openly —
the various disappointments he met with in
business, the failure of some of his most
cherished plans — everything combined to make
him cling to his sister as the one object in his
life who was always the same, and who never
disappointed him.

Though between them lay a secret so
important to him, that he perpetually strove
to forget it, yet seeing her there by him
made him often momentarily forget that anything
uncomfortable lay between them.

On her side, his harshness in old days, and
the various events of her life in which he had
played a part, had been first resolutely pushed
away from her and latterly forgotten. Indeed
the only feeling she had now was in connection
with her husband and that perpetual
bewilderment as to its being Christian or
right to shrink back from the everlasting
companionship which every book she read

B 2

dwelt upon as offering her the deepest consolation.
She had grown fond of her brother, he
appreciated her household virtues, and a woman
forgives much when she meets with appreciation
in what she takes pride in. She had
watched the sparrows, and with a quick self-reproach
at her own idleness she turned to the
door and saw that a telegram was in the
servant's hand. One telegram ! There were
two !

Anxious not to excite Mr. Sandford, she tore
one open. It was from Mr. Macfarlane.

'^ Disastrous fire here and great loss — your
papers all safe."

The poor little woman, so suddenly reminded
of what she had almost forgotten, felt
as though some explosive substance lead been
thrown at her. In her bewilderment she
stretched out the telegram to her brother,
forgetting, at the moment, everything except
the impulse of having his sympathy, then
with a quick flash of remembrance she said,

I

'^ 1 did not mean to show it," and held out her
hand for it.

Too late I Mr. Sandford had read it, and
now with angry and indignant eyes was
watching her face.

^* What papers are those referred to? "he
asked in a harsh voice.

'' Papers belonging to my husband — to me.
I had forgotten them*'

'what are they about?" His voice was
harsh and reminded her painfully of old days ;
something, too, of the fear that held her in
such a grasp then came to her now.

I have not read them."

His brow cleared a little, but he was amazed
to find that after all she had not forgotten.
They had been so much more to each other
lately, so he had thought, and all the time she
had held this weapon in reserve to strike him
with.

There was so much treachery in this that
he was thunderstruck. How little he had

sounded the depths of her character, if she was
capable of this.

Brother," she said, " you can tell me what
I have never had the courage to find out for
myself. Will anything in those papers raise
my husband in my estimation, or will they
lower him in my eyes ? "

show can I tell what your estimation of
your husband is ? " he asked, roughly; ^^he
was a kind good-hearted fellow, not a man of
business, but thoughtful and good about you.
You have nothing to complain of."

Nothing to complain of! thoughtful about
her ! Poor Mrs. Dorriman thought she could
not have heard aright. '^ He left me dependent,"
she said, with a sob in her voice.

Mr. Sandford shrank, then he said, quickly,

^^ What have you wanted that you have not
had from me ? "

''Ah, brother! it is not the same; you do
not know how bitter it is to owe everything,
to be under an obligation, when it ought not

to have been necessary. I should have had
ray own."

This cry, the outcome of months, and even
years, of a perpetual grief to Mrs. Dorriman,
was an entirely new light to her brother,
whose coarser view of life was that so long
as money, food, and clothes were forthcoming
it did not matter from whom they came. He
was also one of the men who imagine that a
woman has no business with money ; who
conceive that they are not fitted by nature for
disposing of any investment or even controlling
their income beyond that portion of
it allotted to them for the payment of a
butcher's bill, or the purchase of some more
or less frivolous article of wearing apparel.

He stared at her in silence, conscious that
this new phase of her character must bethought
over when she was not there. Then
he said :

*' Write for those papers ; there is nothing
in them to injure your husband in your eyes.
He did think about you." ^

^' Then why did Inchbrae not belong tome
? When he told me — at least I think he
told me — it was mine, and you sold it, how
could he think of me and not leave me independent
? If Inchbrae was mine how could
you sell it and me never consenting ? "

jeanne," said Mr. Sandford, 'still the
papers come we will drop the subject — when
they come you will understand. Read the
other telegram." He spoke with difficulty,
and Mrs. Dorriman in haste opened the yellow
missive on her lap, conscious of neglect in
another direction. It was from Grace.

*'A11 sorts of complications here — can you
not come or send some one who can help
Margaret ? Her husband ill."

Then all was forgotten but this new anxiety.
Mrs. Dorriman felt as though life just now
was a great deal too much for her. Her
own affairs were of great interest to her
then the papers, her brother, and now
Margaret.

*' She does not say what sort of help is

wanted, and why did Margaret not telegraph
herself?"

This was Mr. Sandford ; his sister sat thinking
and thinking, not coming any nearer a
solution, looking helplessly straight before her.

'' She has Jean," she said at length.

Mr. Sandford made no answer. He leaned
back in his chair thinking, and it was evident
from the expression of his face that his
thoughts were very painful to him ; then he
said, slowly :

^^ There is a man I dislike, and, for the
matter of that, he dislikes me, but he is the
only person I can think of who can help
Margaret just now. His name is Stevens.
He was Drayton's manager, and left him
because Drayton would not take his advice
about an investment I recommended."

'^ That does not say much for his wisdom,"
said Mrs. Dorriman, who had a blind belief
as regarded her brother's financial capabilities

It showed his wisdom," said Mr. Sandford,
shortly.

^^ The investment was a risky one, if not a
bad one."

Mrs. Dorriman looked at her brother with
wide-open eyes of astonishment.

Mr. Sandford gave a short laugh, in which
there was not any mirth. After a moment or
two he said,

'' Telegraph to this man and ask him to goto
Wandsworth at once."

In your name or mine ? " asked Mrs.
Dorriman, as she drew a telegraph-form
towards her.

^^In Margaret's name. Say, ^ Mrs. Drayton
implores Mr. Stevens to come to her at once.
Her husband is very ill.' Put, ^ The Limes,
Wandsworth.' I think he will act on that,"
said Mr. Sandford, as he rang the bell and
sent the telegram off.

Mrs. Dorriman wrote to Mr. Macfarlane,
going out of the room to do so. Her brother's
words about her husband were full of mystery
to her, but she clung to his saying that her
husband had thought of her, and tried not to

think of it at all. Soon now she would be
made to understand, and, if understanding it
all would make her happier, she longed, all the
more, for the explanations to be over.

She finished her letter, wondering whether
she had said enough and not too much, and
sat with the folded and sealed letter between
her hands with something of her usual hesitation
when she had taken any step of importance.
Then she rose quickly and sent it away. She
felt she must go into her brother's presence,
having fulfilled his wishes. She had not a
moment for reflection then, for the front doorbell,
usually so silent, rang loudly, and in a
moment a tall, broad-shouldered, middle-aged
man came into the room and went straight
up to her.

Mrs. Dorriman, I believe ? I am told Mr.
Sandford is ill, so I asked for you. My name
is Stevens'' and he shook hands with her and
sat down as though sure of his welcome.

'^ I — we have just telegraphed to you, Mr.
Stevens."

'' Hah ! What about ? "

'^ Mr. Drayton is very ill, and Margaret —
we wanted you to go to her."

"Just what I feared," he said; '^ I had a
letter from Sir Albert Gerald, who has been
corresponding with me about some Welsh
property, some mines, &c. ; he said he felt
sure Mr. Drayton was too ill to be looked after
only by his wife ; that he was convinced, from
the way he was behaving, that his mind was
affected. I came here because I thought I
should get full particulars. I am ready to goat
once and see if I can be of use."

^' Thank you," said Mrs. Dorriman, warmly;
'' shall I show you the telegram, and would
you like to see my brother ? "

I need not disturb your brother. Yes,
show me the telegram."

Mrs. Dorriman left the room, leaving Mr.
Stevens pacing up and down the room.

What a horrible shame it was letting any
young girl marry him!" he muttered ; ^^ and
Sandford knew it, for I myself told him."

He took the telegram from Mrs. Dorriman's
hand as she entered, and, crumpling it up, he
said, '* Good-bye," and, before Mrs. Dorriman
had fairly realised he was there, he had gone.

She sat down for a moment or two to recover
herself, conscious that a powerful help
had suddenly been given her in Mr. Stevens.

There was a quickness and decision in his
manner which was inexpressibly comforting to
her. Knowing very little about him, there
was still a mixture of kindness and shrewdness
in his face, and a straightforward honesty
that impressed her.

She rose to join her brother with half her
trouble gone.

*' Who has been here ? " he asked, as she
entered the room.

Oh, brother, such a wonderful thing ! No
sooner had my telegram to Mr. Stevens gone
than he himself appeared. He had heard
something and came to find out what we knew."

Mrs. Dorriman gave a sigh of relief as she
sat down.

^' Who wrote to him ? " asked Mr. Sandford ;
^^ does Grace know him ? ''

^' I do not think so ; but Sir Albert Gerald
wrote. He was corresponding with him on
business''

'^ Sir Albert Gerald ? " exclaimed Mr. Sandford
; '^ isn't he the man who was nearly killed
at Lornbay ? "

'rand that Margaret found? Yes' said
Mrs. Dorriman.

'' What in the world can he be doing
there?" said Mr. Sandford; ''he had better
have kept away."

"But if he helps Margaret?" said Mrs.
Dorriman; " it is a great thing for her to have
a friend near her."

That may or may not be' said Mr. Sandford
, gloomily ; and then, fixing his eyes on
his sister, he said, " You are very innocent,
Anne, but do you think a young fellow like
Sir Albert Gerald a safe friend for a beautiful
young girl like Margaret, who is unhappily
married ? "

** But her marriage was not your doing, you
tried to persuade her against it. I said all I
could, she has only herself to blame," said Mrs.
Dorriman, severely.

'^ Do not make me more ashamed of myself
than I am already," he said, bitterly. '^ I
liked Margaret, and wished to keep her with
me. She is like . . . but Grrace. I did originally
persuade him to come here, I did not care
about her ; and I should not have minded her
unhappiness. Then I was so angry that I made
life unbearable for her ; and if evil comes of
this can I hold myself blameless ? "

He spoke with great agitation, and Mrs.
Dorriman felt powerless to say a word to comfort
him. She knew that there was truth in
his way of putting it, and that in this way he
was to blame.

'^ One thing more," he said, turning
suddenly towards her, ^' and there is no reason
now why you should not know it When I
asked Drayton here I did not know what I
learnt afterwards from Stevens, and when he

told me it was too late; 1 did not know that his
mother died insane, and that he himself had
been under restraint. I only knew this after
that poor child's marriage, and what could I
do ? "

A cry of horror burst from Mrs Dorriman.

'^ Ah, Anne! You may well be horrified,
but can you not see that all this makes me
absolutely hate myself ? I assure you when I
lie down at night, and when I unclose my eyes
in the morning, this is the first miserable
thought that haunts me, and will haunt me to
my dying day."

'' Can we do nothing ? " she sobbed ; ^^ it is
so dreadful to think of her so far from us and
so helpless."

^^ If I went there, he would probably be
worse, and I confess that his virulent hatred of
me is the one fact that reconciles me to being
unable to go. Now this man Stevens has
gone, he will do more than any one, he has
very great influence. I have not the health
nor the strength," and, as he sank breathless

into a clair, Mrs. Dorriman recognised that
this was indeed only too true, and that her
place was by his side.

For this agitation brought on one of his
worst attacks, and when he was again easier he
was as usual feeble and completely prostrated;
and sitting beside him, once again as often
before, the poor little woman had to bear
anxiety patiently, and to fold her hands while
all her fears and terrors for Margaret urged her
to rush to the scene of action.

Grace neither wrote nor telegraphed, and
altogether, perhaps, Mrs. Dorriman had never
gone through such a time of trial before.

It seemed to her that her duty lay in two
opposite directions, or was it that she could not
see quite clearly which was her chief duty P

Things were not much mended by a letter
from Jean, who had great pride in her powers
of language, and who had the habit of wrapping
her meaning in many involved sentences.

^' My dear and honoured lady," she wrote,
'' I am in great distress and anxiety, and Miss

VOL. III. c

Grace is much better and well to do with, and
we agree wonderful ; and the landlady she is
not to be mentioned for meanness and using
the oil we pay for, and cooks too bad for any
lady to eat, much less a young lady with a
high stomach and not strong like Miss Grace,
but I don't mind, and I just do things myself
and she is well content poor thing, but Miss
Margaret's husband has taken a bad turn, and
mischief will come and is sure to come if the
police will not interfere, and they say they
will not because of a law no one understands,
and as I have explained this to you, my dear
lady, I hope you will forgive me, but I wish
you were here, or even Mr. Sandford, as he
might show some temper and make them do
their duty. I hope Mr. Sandford is well and
not very troublesome to do with, though well
I know that illness makes everyone a trouble.
Look at myself, and a man's worse, so no
more from your humble servant, Jean."

'' We hear this bad news from every side,"

said Mrs. Dorriman, ^^ and I am very anxious,
brother."

There is cause for anxiety, but now
Stevens has gone we need not be afraid."

^^ If he only manages to get in."

^^ Trust him ; besides, you must remember
that after all it is only Grace who has been
refused admittance."

'that is all we knoio of, but how I wish,
how I wish, Margaret was safe here with us ! "

'there is no use wishing anything," he said,
impatiently. Mrs. Dorriman sighed.

'' Is it not true that no good comes of doing
anything wrong from however good a motive ? "

'^ What do you mean," he said, angrily.

'' I mean," she said, hopelessly, '^ that if
Margaret had not wanted to give Grace a home
she would not have married Mr. Drayton."

'' Do you suppose I do not know that?" he
said. '' Can you not see that the horror of
it all is almost overwhelming me ? I have
already told you this myself ! "

'' Oh, brother," said Mrs. Dorriman, remorse


fully, " I did not mean ." Mrs. Dorriman
looked ready to cry.

'^ It lis because you do not mean it that it
makes it worse. Anne," lie said, suddenly
raising himself and looking at her, " if any one
knew what the word remorse meant, I think
there would be less Wrong-doing in the world.
It is the worm that never dies, and the fire
that never is quenched." He spoke in a tone
of despair and despondency, and Mrs. Dorian
endeavoured to console him.

'•'• You know nothing of this, brother," she
said, " you should not speak so. You never did
any grievous wrong." She stopped short as a
cruel pang of recollection came to her, the
haunting fear that once had possessed her.
Her face flushed and she trembled visibly.

He looked at her in silence, unable to
reconcile to himself the words she spoke,
implying trust in him and the doubt expressed
in her face. At length he said in a feeble tone,
which betrayed the great prostration he was
suffering: from —

^^ We will talk another day, Anne. Perhaps
when we do have that conversation then you
will feel you are free to leave me, to go to
Margaret, or any one else."

'^ Brother," said Mrs. Dorriman, rising and
standing beside him with her hands clasped,
'' I have learned to care for you now — and
if in the past anything exists that may part
us — let it alone — unless," she added, hastily,
'• it may be doing my husband's memory a
wrong."

She spoke solemnly, and he gazed at her,
earnestly.

'' [ believe you are a good woman, Anne,
but you cannot right the one without "

He waved her away from him, and she,
disturbed and agitated, fearing and hoping
at one and the same moment, stooped suddenly
and kissed him, an unwonted demonstration
on her side, but meant as a seal to the promise
she had intended to make, and so he understood
it.

Mrs. Dorriman, reserved and reticent, had

one great hope in all this. She trusted that
the story which was so painful in every detail
was not known to outsiders. Nothing would
seem so painful to her if only they could keep
it to themselves. She was one of those people
who like to draw her mantle round her and
not show her wounds. It is the misfortune
of characters like hers that no event ever
happens in connection with their home history
of an unhappy nature that they do not begin
to reproach themselves either for doing or
not doing things, or for saying or not saying
something in connection with it. A want of
self-confidence often leads to a good deal of
self-torment, and when she had left her
brother's room she was very unhappy, clinging
to this one belief of privacy as the one
bright spot.

No one need know, and she said these words
to herself, and found that they gave her
comfort. How long she had sat thinking she
did not know, but the twilight was coming on

when the servant came to her and asked her
if she would receive Mrs. Wymans.

^' I am not out, of course, if any one calls ;
you can show them in," she said, surprised by
his tone.

Mrs. Wymans came in with that prepared
expression of sympathy that some people feel
right to show on all occasions when sorrow
may properly be supposed to be in question.

This is indeed kind," she said, nestling upto
Mrs. Dorriman. " I call it real friendship
to allow me to see you at such a moment."

^^ My brother is so much better'' said Mrs.
Dorriman, with her little air of gentle dignity,
^^that there is no reason why I should deny
myself to any one."

^^ Ah, so good of you; but then, dear Mrs.
Dorriman, I am so deeply interested in you
ever since that day we met in the railway-carriage.
I have felt so much sympathy and
real interest."

You are very good."

Oh no ! I am not good at all. But your
brother, how does he bear it ? "

He is better and in fair enough spirits,
considering all things."

^^Ah!" and Mrs. Wymans heaved a sigh
that might have almost sent a ship across the
sea.

The scene was curious— the one woman
burning with curiosity and an intense anxiety
to know what would put her in the position
(in the society of Ronton) of being really
intimate with Mrs. Dorriman ; and the other
alarmed, anxious, yet standing bravely up and
concealing by a wonderful exertion that she
was at all nervous about anything.

'^ Will he be tried ? Of course he will," and
Mrs. Wymans heaved another sigh, which was
cut short in the middle by want of breath.

Poor Mrs. Dorriman's heart seemed to standstill.
Who was meant ? Her brother ? Still
she showed a composed front to Mrs. Wymans,
who was perplexed, annoyed, and began to be

half afraid her information might not have
been correct in every particular.

'^ You are talking riddles, Mrs. Wymans,"
and Mrs. Dorriman was unmistakeably annoyed.


'^ Such strange, such very strange stories
spread, one never knows what to believe,"
Mrs. Wymans answered, '^ but I heard it on
what seemed to be very good authority."

^' Would you be so kind as to tell me what
you have heard, and in what way it refers tome
? " and Mrs. Dorriman felt the suspense
was very terrible to her.

^'Be prepared, for you evidently have heard
nothing," and Mrs Wymans felt to the full
the importance of being the first to tell important
news ; ^' Mrs. Drayton's baby is dead,
and, Mrs. Dorriman, the child did ^wt die a
natural death I "

Mrs Dorriman. started — for a moment she
lost her self-control.

'take care, Mrs. Wymans! Oh, do you
know what you are saying ! "

^^ You know nothing ? "

^' I know nothing about the child, and,"
taking sudden courage at the thought. '^ Jean,
my old servant, wrote to me, and Grace —Miss
Rivers — telegraphed, ' Mr. Drayton is ill,' that
is all. There is nothing more."

^' There is a great deal more. But, my
dear Mrs. Dorriman, pray compose yourself ;
pray do not excite yourself. Mr. Drayton is
ill, that is true, but has no one told you anything
else ? "

^' What more can any one have to say''
Mrs. Dorriman asked, struggling for self-command,
and feeling as though it was beyond
her.

Mrs. Wymans paused ; she had believed
her authority to be good, and she had so
completely credited every word she heard —
we are all of us so apt to believe the very
worst part of a friend's misfortune— that now,
finding that Mrs. Dorriman knew nothing, she
began to ask herself, when it was too late, if

the story could be altogether true ; perhaps it
had been exaggerated.

'^ Perhaps," she said slowly, ^' as you have
heard nothing "

Mrs. Dorriman turned upon her with a fire
and vivacity that fairly astonished her.

^^ Mrs. Wymans, you have said enough to
fill me with apprehension ; you say the child
is dead. It is strange we do not know this,
my brother and I ; and you add, in a tone
of great meaning, it did not die a natural
death. What do you mean ? "

Thus brought to bay, Mrs. Wymans blurted
out suddenly what she had heard.

'rit is said Mr. Drayton is mad, and that
he killed the child. For goodness sake, Mrs.
Dorriman, do not faint ! " she exclaimed,
noticing the deadly pallor of the poor little
woman before her.

•' I am not going to faint," said poor

Mrs. Dorriman, in that far-away voice that
speaks of the cruellest mental agitation ; '' but
you have told me a horrible story. I do not

believe it!" she continued, with a sob; ^Mjut
it is horrible, and I must go — I must telegraph
at once.'^

'eyes, do telegraph," said Mrs. Wymans,
eagerly ; '' can I not take the telegram with
me ? It will hardly be a moment out of my
way."

'' Thank you, no," said Mrs. Dorriman,
coldly.

How little we love the bearer of bad tidings !

'what will you do about Mr. Sandford ? "
continued the obtuse woman, anxious to be in
the way of whatever there was, and not
seeing that Mrs. Dorriman was dying to get
rid of her ; "do make me of use. Shall I goto
him ? A stranger sometimes breaks bad
news better than a very near relation."

Mrs. Dorriman's patience was at an end.

You must prove that your news is true,"
she said, " before venturing to condole with
my brother or with me ; and Mrs. Wymans —
we know each other very slightly, and I must
ask you to be so very kind as to leave me."

Mrs. Wymans, a woman upon whom it was
very difficult indeed to make any impression,
was, for once in her life, completely taken
aback by the sudden assertion of herself in a
woman she had looked upon as an amiable
fool. Her farewells were uttered with rapidity,
and she left the room and the house quite
unable to comprehend how her visit had failed,
or why it was she was made to feel that her
intrusion was an impertinence. Mrs. Dorriman,
left alone, tried to collect her thoughts and not
to take this story for granted. If it was true,
even that the child was dead, why did not
Grrace or Jean or some one telegraph ?

All at once what she had dreaded and
expected came to her — once again a telegram
was brought to her.

** Poor Margaret in frightful distress— her
child is dead — scarlet fever."

The relief of this last information, after all
she had dreaded, broke her down. She sobbed
for some moments very piteously.

Then she went to Mr. Sandford and astonished

him by the way she put the matter
before him.

It is such a relief ! " she began, incoherently,
and not telling him what the relief
was : then she added, the tears rolling over
her face, " Poor Margaret's child is dead ! "

Mr. Sandford was shocked, but failed to
understand why this news, which affected him
so slightly, was a relief.

'' Was anything wrong about the child ? "
he asked.

Wrong with it ? "

'' Yes ; why is its death a relief to you ? "

'' Oh, brother ! " she answered, hysterically,
*not its death — but the way it died."

He understood that some worse fate had
been suggested to her, and he tried to console
her —

I have seen copies of all the correspondence
that took place when Drayton was under
restraint before'' he said, ^' and it distinctly
says that he was obstinate and very troublesome,
but never violent."

Mrs. Dorriman tried bard to think this was
consoling but failed to do so.

The horror of it was almost unbearable, and
she left the room unable to face any discussion
about it, even with her brother ; utterly and
entirely wretched, and longing to be able to
see any one element of consolation in the
position, for Margaret's sake.

CHAPTER 11.

At the Limes the position of affairs became
more terrible every day for Margaret. Mr.
Drayton was always sullen, silent, and watchful,
and the incessant watchfulness broke down
her nerves. She had long fits of crying,
without herself being aware of it. The
women-servants had left, and she could not
replace them ; the one woman who came by
day to clean and cook (and could do neither)
was the only one besides her nurse, and
Margaret lived in dread of her leaving her.

There came a day when Mr. Drayton had a
very terrible outbreak with the man, who up
till now had got on with him. And the scene

ended in this also going — telling Mrs. Drayton
that he had been engaged to look after an
inebriate, and not a madman.

You think him mad ? " faltered Margaret,
looking anxiously at him, a ray of hope
coming to her. If this man who had experience
thought so, might he not convince the
doctors ?

I think so ; at least [ know he is mad at
times. No man in his senses would go on ashe
has done," and the man smoothed out his
collar regardless of Mrs. Drayton's presence.
You see he is very dangerous and very
cunning, and that's where it is. You might
have any number of doctors to see him, and
before them he controls himself so that no one
would believe him to be what he is. I never
was treated so before," and he smoothed his
hair and prepared to leave her.

'' Can you not stop ? " whispered Margaret,
in greater agitation ; '^ I — I am frightened."

'•I cannot stop because now he's took against
me," he answered, "and he shouts the moment

VOL. III. D

he sees me. I've lost all control of him, and
my staying would do no good to you or to no
one else."

Poor Margaret looked despairingly at him,
and, a little moved by her expression, he said
briskly —

"" Don't you be afraid, ma'am. I'll go
straight to the doctor ; he sent me here, and he
knows me, and I'll tell him exactly what it is,
and he'll come first thing and see him."

Margaret saw him go, with absolute despair.
She had suffered very much lately ; her baby
who slept with her had been so fretful and so
very sleepless.

The poor child herself had no experience,
and the nurse she had was a young woman
who was good-tempered and kind, but not
skilful. For several nights the child had never
slept except in Margaret's weary arms, as she
Walked up and down, and up and down with
it. Each time she tried to lay it down it woke
and cried, and, like all children accustomed to
being much fondled and carried about by

its mother, it disliked being handed over to
the nurse when it was ill.

The want of sleep, the incessant terror she
was in, all she went through with those terrible
tireless eyes always upon her, everything combined
to make her really ill.

The strain became intolerable, and Margaret
recognised that something must be done —
some one must interfere in her behalf and take
her and her child away.

Only through her nurse could she hear of
Grace. Jean went repeatedly to the house,
and never succeeded in baffling Mr. Drayton's
watchfulness. Now the man-servant had gone
he never opened the door, and the bells might
ring all day long, he took no notice. More
than once Margaret glided to the door trusting
give a message, to hear a voice she knew,
only to feel a hard grip upon her shoulder, and
to be thrust back.

The stone passage between the gate and the
house was too long for her to make herself heard.
She could not understand why Grace sent no

d2

message and why no letters reached her — and
only found out long afterwards that her cook,
who not unnaturally found the place anything
but what she liked, spent her time in going to
London and looking for another situation, and
never went near Grace at all.

It was as well that the poor thing did not
know then what a broken reed she was
trusting to.

She hoped much from the man's statement
to the doctor, and as she walked up and down,
and up and down through the long and weary
night, she tried to think that soon this terrible
state of matters would end for her and for her
child.

From the nursery window she could look
over the trees and shrubs, and over the high
wall into the distance, and she envied the
people going to and fro. She had committed
no crime, and yet she was, to all intents and
purposes, a prisoner. She had no society, no
friends, no books ; and when she made an
effort over herself, and met her husband at

the ill-served dinner — he never spoke to her ;
when she encountered him occasionally in the
passage — he was equally silent, but the fierce
expression of his eyes terrified her, and she
avoided those meetings, creeping back sometimes
with a fear of him that increased daily.

The warmer weather now kept her almost
all day in the garden, where Mr. Drayton
never cared to come, and where she felt free.

But each day increased her trouble now
about her child. It lay feverish and breathless
at times. If she roused it and tried to get it
to play with her it cried, and at length even
her experienced eyes saw that it was more
than a passing indisposition.

Alarmed, she rushed to her husband's sitting-room.
He was sitting as usual near the window,
and talking, she thought, to some one,
but on going up to the window she found he
was alone and talking to himself. There was
something so terrible to her in the imaginary
conversation he was holding, that for one
moment she drew back frightened, even more

than usual, but her mother's love gave her
courage and she went up to him.

'' Baby is ill," she said, very earnestly.
*' Poor baby ! I have no experience. Will
you let me have the doctor ? "

^^No," he answered, angrily. '^No;it is
only a trick, you played me a trick the other
day, and I allow no one to come here again-you
are my wife and no one shall come to see
you."

'^ It is not to see me," she said, trembling,
trying to humour him, '^ it is baby. Oh !
you will let me send for the doctor ? ''

'^ No doctor or other man shall come here,"
he said with fury ; ^' I know you now, you are
full of tricks, and if a doctor came you would
tell him."

I would tell him about my baby ! " she
cried. '' Oh, if ever you cared for me, if ever
you loved me, you will let me see a doctor for
my child ! "

He watched her for a moment or two,
with half-closed eyes, cunningly, triumphantly.

and curiously, and then he pushed her out of
the room.

She rushed to the front door and beat helplessly
upon it with her hands, and he heard
her, and came out and tried to stop her, on
her way upstairs.

'' If you try and leave the house I will lock
you up," he said, maliciously; '^ and your
pretty baby may cry its eyes out, but you
shan't see it."

A new terror sent her flying upstairs to its
side.

The nurse, frightened and grieved, volunteered
to go, whatever happened*'

But he may not let me in when I come
back," she added.

To Margaret, watching her child suffer, what
did this matter ?

Go!" she exclaimed; ^^fly, and if you can
tell my sister. My God ! " she exclaimed,
'' send some one to help me;" she sank on her
knees, her arms still round the child, and the
woman vanished.

The moments seemed hours to her, to raise
and fan its little face, to try and get it to
swallow a few drops to cool its parched mouth,
to lull it in her arms and shower kisses on the
feet and hands. How long she was with it
alone she did not know, but she was startled
by the door opening. She had forgotten to
lock herself in !

She knew it was her husband ! He came
and leaned against the wall, looking at her.

''No one can come in," he said. 'slam
complete master of the situation'' and then he
gave one of his most terrible laughs.

The baby lying half soothed in a short
slumber started violently and convulsions
came on. Margaret, driven to frenzy, threw
open the window and shrieked till the whole
place rang with her despair.

"Help!' she screamed, "for my baby is
dying."

Mr. Drayton still stood repeating the same
terrible sentence, and then laughing.

Help was hurrying towards her though she

did not know it. The little form clasped to

her heart became suddenly still, and the wings

of angels swept through the room — those angels

who come so often as a blessing though they

strike terror to our blinded eyes. Suddenly

the baby's eyes unclosed — a lovely smile

came to the flushed face ; stretching out its

arms, it said in its childish broken words,

'' Lovely, mother, lovely! " and then, turning

its head aside, went with them.

*****

Four people, appalled by the stillness of the
house, made an entrance, Margaret's cries for
help had been heard, but those cries had long
ceased, the intense quietness and still was not
broken even by Mr. Drayton.

Something had subdued him. Even on his
diseased brain the influence of that dread
presence was felt; he crouched in a corner, and
wondered why Margaret was so quiet, and why
she did not speak to the child.

They found him so crouched. Jean and
Mr. Stevens were first, Jean's warm heart full

of deepest compassion ; then came the two
medical men Mr. Stevens had brought with
him, one of whom had had charge of Mr.
Drayton in former days.

Margaret was still insensible when she was
carried downstairs. Kindly hands tended to
her needs, and when she woke from this prolonged
unconsciousness it was to lie still and
never speak. The shock had been so appalling
that it had apparently numbed her senses. She
asked no questions and never spoke even of her
dead baby.

She took what was offered to her passively,
but nothing elicited a change of expression.
They took her to cheerful rooms engaged by
Mr. Stevens for her and her sister. Grace,
whose health seemed so much better now that
there was necessity for her exerting herself,
was in despair.

'^ AVill she ever recover?" she asked, in
anguish, of the kind and clever man who
visited her so regularly. '^ Will my sister
ever know me again ? ''

^^I believe she will. It would be a great
matter if she could cry — a good hearty cry
might do much for her."

^^ I don't know how to make her," said
Grace, in accents of despair.

'' But I do, ma'am'' said Jean. " I cut the
poor bonny boy's hair off, and we had him
photographed. I will show her the picture,
and then tears will come."

'' Give me the hair," said the doctor,
hastily, and he took it quickly out of the
room with him.

When they next met Grace asked him about
it.

^' Why did you carry it off, doctor ? "

'^ Because the poor child died of suppressed
scarlet fever," he answered, '' and I took it
to be disinfected."

"That's a new name for an ill deed," said
Jean.

'' It's quite true — the child's throat showed
what it died of," he said.

^' It died of neglect," said Jean, obstinately.

^' How was the poor young thing to know how
to deal with it ? Fever or no fever, the mana
cruel-hearted man, and shall never come
near her again."

'^ You say a truthful thing in saying that,"
said the doctor, in a low voice. ''Mr. Drayton
died this morning."

'' No ! " exclaimed Grace. '' He seemed
such a strong man when I last saw him," and
she shuddered, for since the days when she
had laid ill and had urged Margaret to marry
him for her own selfish ends she had never
seen him to speak to, excepting once.

Jean was silent. There was a verse in her
heart but she would not say it out just then.

'* He was a violent man' said the doctor.
^' It is quite dreadful to think of that poor
child in such a man's power. He had a
terrible attack of passion in the asylum — a
blood-vessel in the brain gave way, and all
was over in a few minutes."

•' There are so many things I cannot understand,"
said Grace, who felt those last days

too much to speak about them. ^^ Surely
Margaret must have consulted a doctor. Why-did
he not interfere ? He must have seen
that that wretched man was insane."

^^ Ah," said the doctor, rising, and not
choosing to say to her what he had said to
Doctor Jones, '^ medical men are not always
infallible."

They are human creatures," said Jean —
*^ poor erring mortals."

To Doctor Jones — the great man from
London spoke plainly, albeit with a politeness
which was very chilling.
■ '* We cannot understand, su', your not
having recognised the man as a dangerous
lunatic, but probably you have not had much
experience of this kind."

''I was beginning to be uneasy," stammered
Doctor Jones, who had appeared on the scene
because the man he had sent there had warned
him that there would probably be murder, and
that he would get into a scrape if he did not
interfere in some way.

'^ Were you ? '' said Doctor Plunkett, an
Irishman, with all the sense of fun of a typical
Irishman of the best class ; '' were you really ?
You had begun to think you had made a mistake."
Then he added, in a more serious tone,
'^ Doctor Jones, it is a very serious matter."

^^ I think it is very serious."

'^ What made you so determined not to see
that the unfortunate man was out of his
mind ? "

'^ How do you know I was determined,
sir ? " said Doctor Jones, anxiously.

because Miss Rivers, in stating the case,
told me you had made up your mind beforehand!"


'^ I — I thought that Mrs. Drayton was

well, not quite straightforward."

^^ That has nothing whatever to do with it.
If we medical men are to judge of a patient's
condition because we like or dislike their relations
there is an end of everything," Doctor
Plunkett said severely ; *' surely a case must
be judged on its own merits ?"

^^ Of course, sir, of course. My wife.

sir

Doctor Plunkett looked at him in amazement.


^^ You do not mean to say, sir," he said, ina
tone of cutting contempt, ^' that you allow
your tcife to dictate to you upon a subject
she can know nothing about ? "

Doctor Jones felt utterly crushed.

When Doctor Plunkett was leavings the
room the unhappy little man got near him and
said, in a tone of abject entreaty,

^' I do trust, sir, that, if you have conceived
an unfavourable opinion of me in this matter,
you — will — perhaps, sir, you will not speak
of it anywhere. It would ruin me, sir, in the
eyes of my wife."

'sir," said Mr. Plunkett, 'ewe medical
men are supposed to stand by each other, buta
man who is in subjection to his wife has no
business to be a doctor, in my opinion." He
added, '' I think a henpecked man is an error
in existence. I do not think he has any right

to exist at all," and he left Dr. Jones to
digest this speech as best he could.

It was getting much warmer, though the
spring was not yet far on: That wonderful
promise of a coming fulness, which is one of
the great charms of spring, made itself felt,
but as yet the days were not long, and Grace,
impatient and restless, wanted Margaret to
know what had passed ; she wished her to
know she was free.

Now that Mr. Drayton was dead, the sister
who had been, for a time, bowed with remorse,
tried to shake it off. It had been terrible, and
the death of the little one, that perhaps might
have been saved, was too sad.

But now it was all over why should not
Margaret revive? why could she not speak
and break a silence that was becoming so
very terrible ?

Grrace had not much more comprehension
now than she had had in old days of the
depths of her sister's nature ; and she did
not know in its entirety what Margaret had

suffered in those months of anguish and
seclusion.

Perhaps the person who best understood her
was Jean, whose own deep warm feelings
taught her sympathy.

And Jean in those days was invaluable.
She shielded Margaret from every intrusion,
she cared for her, tended her, and prayed for
her ; and she sometimes thought as she stood
beside her in the stillness of the night — when
with her head bowed and her hands clasped
she prayed in the old Bible words so familiar
to her, and so strange to the poor prostrate
girl — that there was a look of tears in the dim,
half-closed eyes, and she had hope.

It was a quiet place where they were, and
Margaret's room looked out upon a wide
flower-garden. As the trees began to show
green, none of the surrounding houses could
be seen, and Grace used to bring in every
favourite flower she knew her sister had in old
days loved.

The window was open, and as Jean sat near

VOL. III. E

it, busy with her knitting, a few birds, accustomed
to be fed, came to the window-sill and
pecked cheerfully, if a little disdainfully, at
food they no longer required.

A slight movement from the bed made her
turn quickly, and she saw that Margaret's eyes
were more fully opened than they had yet
been, and that she was looking curiously
and strangely at her.

Jean, with one of her inward and fervent
prayers, went to the bed, and laid within
reach and sight of her the golden curls she
had treasured for her, and the photograph of
the little child — then she turned away.

With the feeblest hand and a faint cry
Margaret took these things up and passed
them through her lingers in an uncertain
hesitating way, then she looked at the
picture

The child lay in that stiller rest as though
about to awaken, flowers were around it, and on
its face was the smile with which it had left her.

In a moment Jean heard the welcome sound

of tears and a sob, and rising quietly she shut

the window and left the room, knowing just

then solitude was best.

*****

Margaret was saved: day by day she began
now to rally, her words were still whispers
from the extremity of her weakness, but she
began to listen and notice and answered ; still,
to Grace's impatient eyes, the progress was
slow.

They told her of Mr. Drayton's death, but
no one could fathom her thoughts about it.
Grace worried Jean every hour and every
moment of the day. '^ It seems so hard, Jean,
now all is over, why can she not be as she
used to be ? "

^' She never will be that, my bairn," said
the old woman, '' she will bear a scar all her
days in her heart. It will heal, but there will
be the mark. A wound like that is not a thing
that can be blotted out altogether."

'^ You know, I never saw the baby said
Grace.

E 2

UNIVERSITY OF
IlilNOIS LIBRARY

^^ It is not only the loss of the baby, that's
sore, but a sense of having sinned, that's
helping to keep her down," said Jean; ^^ she
feels that she has done evil that good may
come, and we are commanded not to do that.
And her nerves are nearly gone. You do not
realize, my dear, all that poor thing has
suffered. I tremble, myself, when I think of
her, month after month, in the power of the
poor madman. It's awful. Miss Grrace, you
must just be patient and pray for her too."

Mrs. Dorriman's letters were now addressed
to Margaret, and showed to no one.

But one day she said to Jean, ^^ When the
doctor next comes, Jean, we will ask him
when I may go to Scotland," and the old
woman was delighted, for to her to be so far
from Mrs. Dorriman, and not a ^' kent face "
near her, was a trial.

Another subject that amazed Grace a good
deal was the apparent desertion of Sir Albert
Gerald and Mr. Paul Lyons.

Sir Albert having effected poor Margaret's

release was full of remorse because that release
had been so late, though he was conscious
of not haying lost time when he had fully
grasped the situation ; he still mourned over
the death of the door child, whose life might
have been saved under ordinary circumstances.
He understood Margaret better than
most of those round her, and he knew that
if ever, in the future, he hoped to see her, he
must keep away now.

Grace was exceedingly amazed when she
received a letter from him — from Spain ; true
he entreated her to write to him, but his
having gone so far off was tiresome.

Then Mr. Lyons, he neither came nor wrote,
and altogether Grace thought now, as she
once had done before, it is always Margaret.

Still there were consolations in her present
lot ; she appreciated to the full having the
command of money, and this was su2323lied
unsparingly by Mrs. Dorriman at her brother's
wish.

He was not, in any way, a man who grudged

money, and he was one of the men who had a
vague idea that most things, even a broken
heart, could be mended by a cheque.

He was more relieved by Mr. Drayton's
death than any one, and horrified his sister by
saying so.

'^ It is a terrible thing you say, Anne ; now
I call that humbug ; what is the use of pretending
to grieve ? "

^^ He might have recovered," she said,
gently ; ^' and brother, I do not think it is
right to rejoice over any one's death''

*' Alio says I rejoice ? "

^' You look as if you did''

'well, it is a relief; and in this world so
seldom the right person seems to die . . . , "

^^Oh, hush!" she said, inexpressibly shocked
and distressed.

^' Anne, I know you try to be honest, but
you have a crooked way of looking at things."

I do not think I have, and," she added,
plucking up a little spirit, ^^you have no right
to say so; and the subject is so terribly painful

to me, I thought it would be equally painful
to you."

^^You don't understand the question," he
said, with something of his old violence. " I
am ready to destroy myself when I think I
ever gave that man an opportunity of seeing
poor Margaret, and now that he is gone I
cannot pretend to regret him. His death has
ended a terrible complication."

^' I cannot follow your way of thinking'
Mrs. Dorriman said, feeling somehow that this
did not sound right.

'^ Well, sou had best leave me just now, and
when you have quite disentangled your ideas
we can renew the subject. I never knew such
a brain as yours, it seems to be generally in a
hopeless state of muddle about everything."
This complimentary speech nearly reduced her
to tears, and she hurried from the room only
to be immediately called back.

'^ I am a brute and you must forgive me,
Anne," he said; ^^ and there is another thing I
want to speak to you about."

His voice sounded strange to her, and looking
at him she saw that he was agitated.

^^ Say nothing just now to distress or worry
yourself, brother," she said, quickly.

He took no notice of her, he tapped the
table before him with a massive paper-cutter,
then he said in an odd tone,

^^ What were you saying to-day about Margaret's
coming to Scotland ? ''

'^ The doctor wants her to have sea air and
Scotch air, she wishes to come."

sphere?"

'^ No, not here. Somewhere (she does not
care where) she has never seen. Some place,
with no recollections clinging to it.

^'Lornbay?"

'' She has been there. No ! not Lornbay."

'show would ; Inchbrae do?" her brother
asked as she watched her face closely.

Her colour came and went, then her eyes
filled with tears.

Alas ! that is out of the question."

^^ Is it?" He seemed to speak with a
sudden sense of difficulty.

^^ Anne'' lie said at length, shave you
really never guessed, never thought, that Inch-brae
could not be sold ? Do you know so little
really of any business matters as not to know
that without your consent, without many formalities,
the place, which is your place, could
not be sold ? "

Not sold ! and the place is really mine ? "
said the poor woman, feeling naturally more
bewildered than ever.

^^ Yes, it is yours," he said, trying to cover his
sense of shame by speaking carelessly. His
feelings towards his sister were so much altered
now, that looking back upon the brutality and
roughness with which he had moulded her
fate gave him a pang he never would have
believed in former days. And there was
something else, there was a page in his history
which often haunted him now. The burden of
knowing it even, could not be anything but

painful to him, and the pain grew now each
day more and more intolerable.

Mrs. Dorriman was essentially a woman who
had no self-confidence, she hesitated over even
small matters, and was so afraid of presumption
and other sins that she said what she felt right
at times, impelled by a directness and a sincere
love of truth to say it abruptly, and having
done this repented her sharpness with undue
humility and apologised for being obliged to
say what she thought.

But living in the perpetual companionship
of a woman who was so utterly unselfish and so
unworldly, a woman whose candour and transparency
were those of a child, was an experience
that told even upon Mr. Sandford's blunt
perceptions.

He had learned to value her, and just as he
knew that she had become much to him he
had to lower himself probably for ever in her
eyes.

Mrs. Dorriman was at this moment perturbed,
distressed, and excited beyond conception.

To have been peremptorily taken
from her own home and her people . to have
been deceived! Then swiftly came the remembrance
that she had been led to wrong her
husband's memory. Thoughts pressed upon
her that were nearly intolerable to her, and she
left the room, going to her own, where she
tried to bring her thoughts into order.

Why had her brother done this ? It was
not then that he cared for her, for she knew
well that in those days (that now seemed sofar
away) he had cared for her very little.

Poor woman! her new affection for him
seemed suddenly swept away since he could
carry out so much deception towards her.

It was so cruel to leave her all this while
blaming her husband ; and till lately, when he
had spoken of his having '^ taken care " of her,
she had seen nothing but unkindness in the
way she had been left dependent.

Sudden enlightenment came as a flash to
her; those papers she had kept were of real
consequence, and opened up the history of

her brother's past. She had, as we know,
more than once thought of this — or rather
nearly thought it out, and pushed the feeling
back with a kind of terror.

To be certain that she had no weapons to
strike him with he had broken up her home
to have her near him and watch her
actions.

She rose suddenly from her chair : she felt
suffocating with the pressure upon her mind.
How could she forgive him ? She walked
quickly up and down her room, her hands
clasped closely ; then she said aloud, ^' My
husband, forgive me," and then cried, poor
thing, till she exhausted herself.

The twilight came on; the factories, so grim
by day, blazed out with their myriad lights.

Mrs. Dorriman could not go down ; she
could not yet forgive. She had some food sent
to her, and then prepared to go to bed.

Taking up her Bible mechanically she read
and took in nothing she saw ; she shut it
again and tried to say her prayers. Was there

not something about forgiving trespasses that
she said twice every day ?

There was a severe mental struggle, and it
was dark when it was over. She went slowly
to her brother's room. He was awake.

'^ Brother," she said, going up to him and
laying her hand upon his, '^ I have come to
say that I forgive ! "

CHAPTER III.

Nothing could exceed Grace's disappointment
when she found that, though Margaret rallied,
got up, moved about, went out, and in all
ways seemed to be her old self as far as bodily
health went, she remained grave, quiet, and
apparently indifferent to the various plans
and arrangements proposed by her sister.

Grace began to know what we most of us
live to find out, that something we have
longed for — perhaps unduly — is given to us
in a manner that makes us often regret the
time and thoughts we have wasted upon it.

From the time she had been old enough to

wish for anything, she had wished to be in or
near London to see and be seen. First, she
had been very ill herself, and now here was
Margaret, a widow and childless, and her
dreams must equally vanish. At the beginning
she had been filled with remorse, then she
got a little weary of trying to sympathise,
knowing that it was only trying, now she got
very impatient.

Margaret had heaps of money, why could
she not drive a little, or do something more
than pace that tiresome little garden, read
dull books, and go to a little grave ?

Her joy may be conceived when one day
Margaret was asked if she would see Lady
Lyons. It was, at all events, some one who
was neither a doctor or a nurse.

Lady Lyons, unaccustomed to more than a
general friendliness on the part of her friends,
from being a little deaf and not a little tiresome,
was immensely flattered by the excuses
Grace made for Margaret, and her evident
pleasure at her visit ; her one unflattering

reflection being that she trusted this open
satisfaction had nothing to do with her son
and any advances he might have made in
this direction.

Margaret had been her desire previously,
when her inheritance was only problematical.
Imagine what her wishes were now when
every one knew that Margaret was a very
rich widow.

She endeavoured to meet Grace with a
friendliness that committed her to nothing,
and her talk was of Margaret, and ever Margaret.
Was she getting over the sad, she
might say the mysterious, death of the child ?

^^ There was nothing very mysterious about
it. It died of suppressed scarlet fever, poor
little thing. I never saw it. No, Margaret
is not getting over it. She never smiles, and
at night she cries often. Lady Lyons, I do
wish she would get over it ; I do find it so
terribly dull."

^' I dare say," said Lady Lyons, without
any show of sympathy.

^'Day after day not a soul, save and except
the doctor, and he is always in too great a
hurry to be pleasant," and Grace gave a long
sigh. ^' When I heard your name it was such
a godsend. Do you know I positively have
not spoken to a soul for days and days, except
Margaret and that old Scotchman, who is
stark staring mad on religious subjects.'

'' But you have the comfort of being with
your sister," said Lady Lyons, a little stiffly.

'' She does not want me in the very least,"
said Grace, eagerly, a plan developing itself
quite suddenly in her fertile brain ; ^ ^ not in
the very least. No, Lady Lyons, what I

mean to do is How long must I wear

this ? " she said, suddenly touching the crape
on her dress.

'^ Oh, Miss Rivers ! You being Scotch makes
such a difference ; in England mourning is less
and less worn as it used to be, and now people
take to kilting crape it takes away from the
blackness of it somehow. In Scotland you

VOL. III. F

would have to wear it months and months, and

as you are Scotch "

^^ I am only Scotch on one side of my
house," exclaimed Grace, " and I do not
intend to shut myself up for months and
months. No, Lady Lyons, I have a plan,
but I do not see much use in telling it to
you, if you think I am going to dress like
a mute at a funeral."

I am sure I do not wish to hear your
plan," said Lady Lyons, irritated by Grace's
manner and by her words, "I came to call
upon your sister ; will you be so good as
to say that sincere sorrow for her made
me lay aside my invalid habits and come
out."

'please don't go," said Grace, 'sand for
goodness sake don't talk about being an
invalid. I have not a lung left, so they say,
or only a little bit of one, and I will not be ill
or anything. Now I will tell you what I
mean to do. I mean to go to London, and
pay a good deal of money to some great lady,

and go about with her as soon as I decently

can."

My dear Miss Rivers, no very great lady
would care to do this ; they want nothing you
can give them."

^' Well then a smaller one must do," said
Grace calmly; "but she must know everybody,
heaps of people and all that — she must be in
the swim you know."

"But I do not know," said Lady Lyons.
In the swim ! What do you mean ? I have
not the faintest idea."

Oh, Paul will know."

(It had already come to this : she called
him Paul ! Lady Lyons was extremely displeased.)


"My son, whom you call ^Paul,'" she
said, stiffly, " what can he do ? He is but
young."

Oh. he knows the world a little though he
is young ; of course I call him Paul."

He does know the world," said the
irritated mother, " I hope he knows the world

F 2

too well to be a victim to any one who is not
in a position I should like."

'' You are quite wrong, dear Lady Lyons ;
being a man of the world, and knowing the
world a little, are two very different things,
and no one can call Paul a man, he is so very
young; that was what I said to him only
the other day. And about a position you
would like, you mean your son must marry
for money. Now, I have too good an
opinion of Paul to believe it — and no one
worth his salt will choose only to please his
mother."

I am so unaccustomed to hear such
unfeminine sentiments," and the irate Lady
Lyons rose to go.

^^ It is very good for every one to hear
several sides to any question," said Grace,
rising also ; ^' I hope I have not offended you.
Lady Lyons ; but you know I am one of the
people who never can help speaking the truth
upon all occasions— more especially when it
suits me," she added to herself.

^^ You have not offended me at all," answered
Lady Lyons, very much ruffled; ^Hhe
opinion of a young lady who does not know
the world has not so much weight as you
think."

'snow, you want to be disagreeable," said
Grace, laughing, ^' and you need not try.
When T was in a scrape at school, which was
very seldom, the good people did not know
what to do, because scolding I never minded
a bit, and hard sayings never hit me, so you
see I am a hopeless character — but for Margaret,
perhaps, no one would ever sneak to me.
She is very different."

Yes, she is very different. I think she
must be curiously different. Do you never
vex her. Miss Rivers ? Have you never
wounded her sensibilities ? "

The quick colour, even tears, came suddenly
into Grace's usually tearless eyes. She tried
hard to hide them, but Lady Lyons saw them,
and they melted her a little. ^^Ah!" she
said, ^' Yes. Well, a sincere and warm affection

for your sister may bring out your good
qualities."

^^ Thank you," said Grace, demurely,
rapidly regaining her usual spirits. And
when Lady Lyons went away she carried
with her a most confused impression of the
girl who had made fun of her at one moment
and shown very bad taste in talking about
Paul with so much familiarity, and the next
betrayed very deep feeling for her sister.

Lady Lyons was one of the many people in
the world who forget that, though the influence
of civilization has a levelling effect, underneath
are many varieties of character, and
that the most ordinary is a complex one, not
wholly good or wholly bad, but partaking of
both.

In a different way there was another person
who had at first given fullest sympathy to
Margaret's desolation, and yet who also now
felt that she was becoming morbid in her
grief, and who wished to see her rousing herself
from it.

This was Jean.

With all the depth of a nature both intense
and passionate she had felt the death of the
little child for her, as she had felt all the
horrors she had gone through.

But now she saw that Margaret was nursing
and indulging her sorrow, and she was anxious
to wean her from its perpetual contemplation,
conscious, through the fine natural instinct that
belonged to her, that if the habit of solitude, of
mourning, and of shrinking from all companionship,
was once formed, it would be far
more difficult to break through it afterwards.

The visits to the little grave, where each
flower was laid and watered with tears, must
be used to turn her thoughts to living children
in great need of a share of her sympathy and
of her help.

With her Bible in her hand, and a hearty
prayer in her heart, the faithful old woman
accompanied Margaret, as she had often done
before, to the little corner, where the poor
young mother wept and meditated, recalling

every broken lisping word, so dear to her, and
losing herself in fond remembrance of her lost
darling.

'^ My bairn," said Jean, when the fresh
flowers had been laid down, and Margaret
stood like a frail shadow in her long black
robes, ^' have you ever thought how much
money you have now in your hands to
spend ? "

'^ Oh! do not speak of it here," said Margaret,
shocked and distressed.

'^ Why should I not speak of it here ? " said
Jean, stoutly ; ^^ it is here that I want to show
you that you should do something with it."

'' I shall never claim it, never spend it ! ''
exclaimed Margaret, twining her thin white
fingers round the little marble cross close to
her.

'' But you must do both," said Jean, emphatically.
'' You must claim the money, and
spend the money. You must sjDend it, my
dear, for the glory of God, and to give heliD.''

'' How ? Tell me how can I ? "

You never can, if you do not look further
than to a few feet of green turf, and allow
nothing else to fill your mind. Look round
you, my bairn ; see where others suffer. You
mourn most because you think that if help had
come your child might have lived."

^^ It might," murmured Margaret, in a
suffocated voice.

And, if you think that, there are hundreds
and thousands of children who die because
they cannot get the help you might give them,
having the means."

^^ What do you mean, Jean?" and Margaret
was startled into momentary forgetfulness.


'' Oh, my bairn ! you have but to walk in
the streets of the Great Babylon and see the
poor little things ; but go out of the streets ; go
into the byways ; leave the highways alone
and see for yourself. When I lost my way the
day I took a letter from you to the bank I saw
a sight that set my heart aching ; and, as I saw
all the filth and misery, I took comfort to

myself, and said, 'My young lady is rich, and
she will do something for these little ones.' "

^* But anything I could do would be such a
drop in the ocean."

^^ And is the ocean not made up of drops ?
We can all do but little — but must we not see
we do that little ? "

^^ How can I begin ? "

^ ' I am a poor ignorant body, but I would goto
some doctor and say — ^ I do not want
this money, but I want to help children,
for the sake of a little child I loved and lost
myself."

Margaret's tears were falling, but they were
not tears of bitterness. Jean had touched a
right chord. With the possibility of doing
something, an incentive for action given, came
a glow of warmer feeling for humanity. The
selfishness of her sorrow grew less, and, as she
once again knelt in prayer beside the flower-covered
grave, she did not pray for herself
only, for that meeting she longed for, but she
prayed also for others, and rose up filled with

a sincere hope that she might be a comfort and
help to them in the future.

She walked quietly and silently by Jean's
side. No more passed between them ; but
when they reached home she stopped in the
hall, and, putting her arms round Jean's
ample shoulders, she kissed her heartily.

Full of her new resolve, Grace's mood
jarred not a little upon Margaret ; but she
meant honestly to try for less selfishness. She
had owned to herself she was selfish, and she
bravely tried to turn her whole attention to
her sisters enthusiastic account of no less an
important matter than a brown velvet dress,
which had completely taken possession of her
imagination.

'^ How long do you want me to wear this,
darling?" she asked, with an air as though,
however repugnant to her own feelings, she
was prepared to make a sacrifice on her sister's
account.

A little while ago, only a few hours ago,
how poor Margaret would have shrunk from

such a question ? Now it was with a fond
touch on Grace's shoulder that she said,
softly,

^' I have been selfish, dear. I have expected
you to mourn with me ; you have no memory
of my child. No, do not wear the semblance
of a sorrow you cannot feel."

You are a darling, Margaret. Then I
may have the velvet ? "

^^Is it very costly?" asked Margaret, trying
hard to enter entirely into the interests of the
moment with Grace.

'not for sou to give me," said Grace, as
she twirled round the room, enchanted at this
first grand success of her newly-formed resolution.


Margaret looked at her in surprise.

You talk as though you expected me to
use his money for you and for myself."

'' Good gracious, Margaret, you are surely
not going to be ridiculous about it! And I
wanted you to do so many things for me. I
had set my heart upon going to London and

upon having nice things ; you are too bad I "
and Grace, whose hopes were so suddenly
dashed to the ground, burst out crying.

Margaret was infinitely pained. Apart as
she was in feeling from Grace, she yet was
conscious of a perpetual disappointment in
connection with her character that seemed to
chill her. And it was very wonderful, she
thought, because Grace had been very ill and
near the gates of the eternal life, and such an
illness must be, in some ways, like a great sorrow,
and must surely have made the trivial vanities
of life seem trivial indeed. But, as she spoke
of wealth, she must make her understand that
she could not use any of his money, except in
some way to help others in need of help.

*^ Grace," she said, sitting down and drawing
her sister towards her, " I want you to
listen to me, and I wish you to understand."

*' I will not listen," answered Grace, still
sobbing violently, ^' if you are going to be
horrid. You cannot imagine my disappointment!
I thought, once you got better and . . .

forgot, that it would be all right again, and
that I should do what I like and go whore I
liked, and all that, and how can I if you will
not give me any money ? "

'* Nothing will induce me to spend any of
my husband's money on myself or upon you,
Grace. You do not know my feeling about
it. I sinned in marrying him, and 1 should
perpetuate the sin if I spent his wealth upon
me and mine. I cannot go through what I once
did, and now that I see everything more
clearly I cannot act against my conviction."

^^ Then what is the use of your having
sacrificed yourself ? " asked Grace, in a tone
in which anger and contempt were mingled ;
^' really, Margaret, you are so high-flown and
so ridiculous ! Of course, taking it in that
way, one would not expect you to do the
thing again. I never should dream of asking
you, but, having done it, what is the use of
undoing all the good of it ? "

'' The good of it ! Oh, Grace, do not speak
of it ; it cuts me to the heart, dear, that you,

my own sister, cannot understand me better,
that you cannot see that evil, and not good,
came of it ! "

'' Of course," said Grace drying her eyes,
*^ the poor little child's death is an evil to
you, and I assure you whenever I think of it
I could cry. Don't think, because I don't
want to wear black, that I am not as sorry as
I can be : but now that dreadful man is dead
why should you not be comfortable again ? "

Margaret sprang from her seat and stood
opposite her sister ; her countenance was lit
up with a sort of passionate sorrow and regret.

''Do you not understand something — a little
of what I feel ? Do you know, Grace, that
when that little life was given to me I thought
nothing signified. I neglected that poor, unhappy
man; I kept away from him; I avoided
him ; I lived but for my child. Then, when
the end came, and I had to stand by and see
it die — die because the help extended to many
other children was withheld from it ; then I
saw that I had made it my idol, and that in

every particular I had failed towards the man
I had vowed to "

^' But how could you when he was mad ? '^
asked Grace ; '^ it was quite impossible."

^^I also said that to myself, Grace, but I
knew that when I stood beside him and took
those terrible vows — vows I never realised
till I heard them slowly and solemnity pronounced
before God's altar — Oh, Grace, you
are very dear to me, but, when you talk of my
sacrifice being thrown away, I think of my
child's life sacrificed. Oh, Grace, can you
not see that I sinned ? What could I expect ?
How is it that girls so thoughtlessly take
those awful things upon themselves, say those
words, and yet do not mean them : and yet I
did it ! "

^' But you did it for me, darling — for me —
and it does seem different. You did not do it
for yourself''

God knows I did not," said poor Margaret,
upon whose fragile and delicate frame
this scene was acting feverishly. '' But I did

it. We need not argue about it, dear ; we
need not discuss it any more, we should never
think of it alike ! We are different, dear, and
we see things differently — very very differently''


^' Then you have quite— quite made up your
mind to remain poor all your life, and to let
these things slip away from you ? " asked
Grace, in a tragical tone.

'^ I will not use that money," said Margaret
firmly, '' either for you or myself."

^^ It is too hard," and Grace again dissolved
in tears.

Margaret sat down again. She was not yet
very strong, and she felt all this cruelly. She
let Grace alone for a few moments, then she
said —

^' If I knew exactly what you wanted, Grace,
I might see if it could not be done in another
way."

Her voice was cold, with all her tenderness
and kindness. She was deeply wounded by

VOL. III. G

her sister's utter inability to understand something
of the past.

^^ Now you are angry, Margaret, and it is a
little unreasonable of you. Because you have
done with your life, and cannot think about
pleasant things any more, why may I not look
forward ? ''

Margaret started. Had she done with her
life ? She was not yet twenty ; was everything
really over for her? As regarded
marriage or love, of course there was an end ;
but in her own way she meant to fill her life
with happiness, even though a cloud of regret
must ever dim its brightness. Her whole
being craved for something to give her a full
life — interest in some one thing. All the
poetical side of her nature began once more
to thrill her The world had much that was
sad in it, but there were yet depths unsounded
of which she was vaguely aware, and till she
knew them she would not proclaim all was
over for her even here. The glow of returning
health, the beauty of the noontide of

summer, began to assert influences she could
not totally disregard. As love invests the
most homely personal attributes with indefinite
charm, so poetry, in its highest, widest,
and largest sense, throws a halo over the
commonplace phases of existence, touches
everything with a golden light, and makes it
beautiful.

Nothing was more curious than the swift
thoughts which carried the one sister above
and beyond the present, and the concentration
of the other upon a matter so essentially
mundane as a brown velvet dress, for Grace
counted it as one of her claims to merit that
she had tenacity of purpose — which tenacity,
if applied to higher purposes, might have
deserved commendation.

She watched Margaret's countenance eagerly,
and brought her down to worldly matters very
soon by her anxiety to know how Margaret
proposed arranging matters.

^' What do you think of doing ? " she asked,
eagerly; ^^ and, if you are going to arrange

g2

matters can you not arrange about my clothes
also ? "

She leaned forward as she spoke, and
watched her sister's face intently.

^^ Grace, it is very foolish of me to forget
that you and I have always thought differently
about dress and other things. Of course, if I
do manage to carry out my plan, you must
have clothes and things ; if I can arrange it all
I will arrange it quite comfortably for you ;
but you must be patient, dear."

^' I hate the conditional tense," said Grace,
and then, as she brightened a little, she said,
cheerfully — ^^ I believe you will manage it,
and you are really a great darling."

'' There is one thing more, one caution I
want to give you, Grace. Will you be careful
about your health ? You are marvellously
well just now, but you know yourself, dear,
how delicate you are. If you do not take care
you will be in a sick room again."

*' Oh ! please don't croak and be horrid now
you are just beginning to be nicer again."

^^ Poor Grace ! " said Margaret, with a little
sigh.

She went to her own room, and, drawing her
chair near the window, sat down to think over
the plan she had made. She was resolved to
be indebted to no one. If her sister went to
London the necessary money should come from
no one but herself.

She opened her despatch-box, and looked
through her papers. She wanted to find the
address of the publisher who had expressed his
appreciation of her writing in so substantial a
manner.

She looked in vain. She could find it nowhere.
Then she recollected that Sir Albert
Gerald had carried out all the arrangements
for her, and that she had corresponded through
him.

She had no hesitation in writing to him
since he was a friend now and only a friend.
The tragedy of her child's death had blotted
out the remembrance of what had been, and
she had passed through so much trial, she was

so much changed, that she never for one
moment doubted but that the change would
be equal as regarded him. Her letter was
direct, simple, and free from all allusion to her
sorrow. She said she wanted to be put into
direct communication with the friendly publisher
— then she added, " I want to make
some money. This may surprise you, as I
believe I am supposed to be very rich, but
I think you will understand that money must
come in an acceptable way or be rejected. I
do not intend using the money which has been
left me for myself, and I want, if possible, to
owe it to no one but myself."

Then she waited patiently.

In her letters to Mrs. Dorriman she wrote
fully about her own plans. ^' I wish to start
certain things, to see and judge for myself,
and to use the money, which has come to me,
for helping little children and others. When
I have arranged everything, may I come to
you and Uncle Sandford. I shall not be very
poor because I believe I have it in my power

to make money. I have already done so, but
Grace cannot go to Scotland. As soon as
I can arrange it for her, she is going to
London to stay there with some one, at any
rate, for a time."

Mrs. Dorriman read this letter with the most
intense satisfaction.

Margaret had grown very dear to hers and
in her letter she gave Mr. Sandford the name
he had always wished to hear from her. The
fact of her offering to come back must
show him how completely she had forgiven
him.

Ever since that marvellous revelation about
Inchbrae, Mrs. Dorriman's manner to her
brother had been both tender and affectionate.
She tried to prove that her forgiveness was
complete, and she could not understand why,
now this burden was off his mind, he still
made allusion to a weight there.

Often when he came in and she rose to
greet him she caught him watching her as
though something was still between them?

and that helpless feeling of not being able
fully to understand pressed upon her again.

He came in one day, looking tired, and
she saw that he sank wearily into his
chair.

Tea was there, and she gave him some, and
made one of those trivial remarks people are
apt to make when wandering thoughts are the
order of the day.

'^ Anne, I do not think Margaret will care to
come here," he said suddenly, 'sand you think
so too."

Mrs. Dorriman's delicate face flushed a
little. ^' Margaret offers to come," she said
after a little pause.

'^ I find business tires me more and more,"
he said, as it seemed to her, irrelevantly.

'^ I am sorry," she answered, looking a little
anxiously in his direction.

'' Why should we not all go to your house,"
he asked, as though putting the plainest and
simplest question in the world.

'' To Inchbrae ! Oh, brother ! " This sudden

suggestion filled lier with such intense happiness
that she could get no further.

^^ I want Margaret to get well and I
mean to resign my chairmanship and other
things. I shall give up business. I want —
rest."

His manner alarmed her, but she tried to
compose herself, and to accept this new turn
in her affairs quietly, and not to let him see
how intensely this affected her.

She subdued her emotion and spoke in a
matter-of-fact tone, ^^ It will be a long journey
for Margaret and for poor Jean."

^^I have thought of that. When Margaret
refused to accept the arrangement Drayton
had made for her, I heard from Stevens, and
have been in correspondence with him ever
since. I think he might bring her here ; there
are a great many things to arrange."

"^ But if we go to Inchbrae, brother, might
she not come there, direct ? "

"• Yes, you may go there and receive her.
I must see Stevens here ; " and then he continued

in a strange tone, ^^ if you wish me to
follow you I will go there."

^af I wish it''

"' You do not know, Anne. You know
nothing," he exclaimed, with something of his
old very peremptory manner.

She was startled and vexed. Why did he goon
like this? why constantly talk as if she had
yet much to learn ?

^^ One thing more," he said, in a less
excited tone, '^ I do not want every idiot in
the pla ce to gossip, and talk, and wonder ; go
and see the few neighbours with whom you
have made acquaintance and speak of going
home, and of receiving Margaret naturally.
If you leave suddenly no one knows what
may be said."

^' And about you, brother ? "

'^ About me? who cares?" he said; '^ my
act in the play is nearly over. What does it
all matter to me ? But you can say I am ill —
that is the truth, 1 am ill."

If you are ill, I will not leave you."

^^ Nonsense! my body is well enough, but
there is something that hurts far more than
bodily illness."

A commotion in the hall was followed by
the servant's entrance.

He announced the arrival of a box for Mrs.
Dorriman.

She forgot, at the moment, that she had sent
to the Macfarlanes for the famous box which
held so much that was important to her, and
when she saw it it gave her a little shock.
Apparently it gave a greater shock to her
brother, for he was white to the very lips.

'' Anne," he said, and his voice was full of
entreaty, '^ will you do me one great favour :
Will you not look at the contents of this box,
will you not break the seals, till you are at
Inchbrae ?'•

Mrs. Dorriman — who had seen it arrive
with a curiously mingled feeling, half dreading
half anxious to know its contents — said quietly,
^' It shall be as you wish, brother."

CHAPTER IV.

The long July days were at hand, so much
longer in the Highlands than in other parts of
Great Britain, and which most people, living
in that favoured spot, think more than makes
up for the shorter winter days. Over everything
lay the beauty of summer. Where the
heat is not too intense for enjoyment, what a
delicious thing is a long, summer day !

At Inchbrae, where the sea kept the air
cool, it was perfect; by the side of the burn
and down by the waterfall, ferns sprinkled
with spray, showed a perpetual verdure, a

thousand flowers lingered within the freshness
of the burn-side ; honeysuckle and sweetbread
rivalled each other in fragrance.

The garden near the house was in perfection,
for, though spring flowers come late,
they make up for it when they arrive — and
roses and geraniums made bright colour, and
caught the sunshine to enhance their beauty.

Mrs. Dorriman had felt much on arriving at
the little place where she had gone through so
much sorrow. Inchbrae, to her, was second to
the old home, where she had many memories,
but she loved it, and it was her very own, and
the fact of possession gives a certain touch of
pride in everything.

Christie had welcomed her with all the
heartiness of an old Highland friend and
dependent. She had scrubbed and cleaned,
and Mrs. Dorriman, while missing Jean at
every turn, was full of gratitude.

''^Eh, my dear, time has stood still for you,"
Christie said to her, as she watched her quick
movements to and fro ; ^^ you are a different

woman to what you were when you went
away."

'^ I am happier, Christie."

'^ Aye, you are happier, but you have to get
more yet ; there's more good to come to you
yet."

Mrs. Dorriman laughed softly.

^^ Are you prophesying a husband to me at
my age, and another husband too ? " and then
she blamed herself for laughing.

'^ Your age is no hindrance ; but I was not
thinking of marrying ; I was thinking of the
old house, of the old home."

^^ Oh, don't," said Mrs. Dorriman, raising
her hands as though pushing the thought from
her; ^' do not make me unhappy by making
me think of that. The old place is sold,
Christie, and gone from us, gone from me,
and I mean to be happy here."

^' It will come back to you," Christie said,
persistently ; '' you will see that it will be
yours again some day, and it's not a far-off

day, either," she added, more to herself than
to Mrs. Dorriman.

Mrs. Dorriman turned away. At that moment,
with the broad sea rippling and sparkling
beneath, taking a thousand hues as it reflected
the moving clouds, and the sea-breeze coming
upon her with its exquisite freshness, she felt
horribly ungrateful for giving a lingering
thought to that other home.

But here, with all its beauty, there was a
charm lacking — the charm of memory.

Inchbrae had no associations for her, and in
that other home there was the dear, kind face
of the father, who would doubtless have done
more for her had he only had it in his power.

She stood silently trying to stifle any regrets,
and to be thankful and grateful for this, the
little home she had to offer Margaret.

Margaret had done a good deal, but not all
she had hoped to do. She had seen sights
that had made her heart sore, and she had
helped in many ways, following lines already
laid down, and enabling many charities to

extend their action. Children learned to watch
for her, and those standing round marvelled
at the tenderness and skill of her way of
handling them.

Knowing her to be childless they were surprised.


Margaret seldom spoke of her little one
now. Deep down in her heart she cherished
its memory — for a true mother never forgets —
but she could not open the wound to strangers
or explain why a sick child commanded her
strongest compassion.

Her own name was never brought forward,
and all the money arrangements were made
for her by Mr. Stevens.

She found the other plan she wished to
carry out with regard to Grace much more
difficult.

Lady Lyons had spoken the truth as regarded
finding the ^^ great lady' with whom
alone Grace imagined she would find perfect
happiness, and be ^4n the swim." She could
hear of no one who had the slightest ambition

to chaperone a young lady who was not very
beautiful, not very rich, and nobody in particular.
Grace had more than one interview
with what she called hopeful people ; and she
was too fond of a joke, even against herself,
not to repeat them, and even act the scenes,
for Margaret's benefit.

But the plain fact remained that she could
hear of nothing the least like what she wanted ;
and Grace, at no time a miracle of patience,
got extremely irritable, and accused the world
in general of combining together to defeat her.

Margaret, coming home full of the terrible
scenes to which she could not accustom herself,
was worried beyond description. The sharp
contrast between this unfulfilled lono^in^ on
the part of her sister for mere amusement, and
the terrible— sometimes horrible — realities, to
which she had just before perhaps been standing
face to face, struck her painfully. She
was but human herself, and there arose between
them sometimes angry words and sharp retorts
that filled her with dismay afterwards.

VOL. III. H

In characters so widely apart as theirs, it
was only to be expected that a day would come
when some tremendous crisis would show each
how strained the sisterly chords now were.

After a scene between them, however, it was
Margaret who tried to make amends for a
recognised deficiency in her affection, by
giving Grace something she wished for.

At this moment, with that curious disregard
to the fitness of things which distinguishes
some people. Lady Lyons made a successful
effort to see Margaret — with a purpose.

As we know, poor Lady Lyons was one of
those mothers who possess no real knowledge
of their sons' characters, and she fancied that
Paul (who never accused himself of it) was
probably too shy to say a few necessary words
to show Margaret that, when time had made
things a little pleasant for everybody, he
hoped to find her able to respond to his devotion.


She thought that now movement was in the
air, and Margaret was talking of going to

Scotland, it would considerably help matters if
she could say some little thing to arouse Margaret's
attention, and to let her see that
though Paul kept away (out of delicacy) he
was hovering, so to speak, upon the horizon.

Lady Lyons therefore arrived upon the scene
one day, and came into the drawing-room,
to find Margaret much perturbed and Grace
crying upon a sofa.

This was very interesting. Had the sisters
been indulging in plain speaking, a matter in
which the best of sisters occasionally show
more of the licence of their relationship, than
of the bond of union supposed to exist
between them ?

She was always distinctly maternal towards
Margaret, hoping she understood, while a
little disappointed that Margaret never sufficiently
unbent to enable her to embrace her.

Margaret, when in good spirits, was inclined
to make fun of her to Grace as rather
*' a gushing old lady," and the intended
maternal impression was, so far, unsuccessful.

h2

Before Lady Lyons had arranged her ideas
entirely, Grrace, much to her sister's surprise,
took Lady Lyons into their counsel, and spoke
openly to her of her hopes, her disappointments,
and all else, and ended by saying —

^^ You were quite right, Lady Lyons — no
one will have anything to say to me."

''• My dear Miss Rivers," said the mistaken
woman, and speaking in a most patronising
tone, "• Don't be afraid, your day will come.
You will see, your day will come."

^'You are all wrong," said Grace, very
much annoyed with her ; '' I am talking of a
chaperone."

*^ Grace, there is really no use in troubling
Lady Lyons with our private affairs," said
Margaret, in a tone she trusted would check
Grace's indiscretion.

nonsense!" said Grace, coolly. ^^ Now,
Lady Lyons, here is the whole thing. I want
to go and have a little peep at London "
(Grace's ideas had become a little modified) ;
^^ I do not expect to go to royal garden-parties,

and all those very swell things, but I want to
go to balls and do pleasant things. I am
pining to have some fun."

'^I am sure it is very natural' said Lady
Lyons, a little touched by these girlish sentiments.


^' Margaret does not agree with you," said
Grace. ^^ She is quite happy spending her
time in hospitals and very gruesome places,
where she looks after sick people — that is lier
idea of happiness. It is not mine."

•^ But, my dear Miss Rivers, a very wealthy
person has every right to have some whims,
and dear Mrs. Drayton may perhaps come
round after a bit'' said Lady Lyons, nodding
her head at Margaret with effusiveness.

"You don't understand her," said Grrace,
who would not stop her confidences — because
she wanted to tease her sister — "you call her
rich, but she is not at all rich. She has given
away all her money, Lady Lyons ; she has sent
thousands here, there, and everywhere. She
will not touch it. I call it a horrid shame ! "

and Grace buried her face in her handkerchief.


To say that Lady Lyons was speechless is
to say very little. She had the most extraordinary
feeling, as though in some way Paul
had been defrauded.

^•^ It is the most extraordinary thing I ever
heard in my life ! "

Margaret rose and held out her hand, and
wished her good-bye.

^^ There is no reason it should not be
known," she said, with a heightened colour,
^* though I think my sister might have told the
story differently."

Lady Lyons shook hands with her, and the
change in her manner would have been most
amusing had any one been there to see it.

"When Margaret had left the room a sudden
idea came to the excellent woman she had left
sitting there. She moved a little nearer to
Grace and said emphatically,

'' Tell me, my dear Miss Rivers, now do be
frank with me. How did that dear, good Mr.

Sandford take youi^ sister's marriage ? Was he
angry ? "

'^ He was furious' answered Grace. ^' It
was very ridiculous of him, as he brought the
horrible man to the house in the first place, so
he is the very last person who ought to find
fault."

^' And, when Mrs. Drayton goes to Scotland,
she does not mean going to stay with Mr.
Sandford?"

Of course not. In that case I shall not be
able to go to her eventually''

^' And it really was a great deal of money
that she has given up."

^' It was thousands," said Grace, ^^ and I
must say. Lady Lyons, I think it was very
selfish, she might have thought of m^."

'' I think she might indeed."

^' Because she does not care for money that
is no reason why I do not. I hate poverty."

^^ Most people do, it seems a very great pity'*
said Lady Lyons, feelingly, with a sigh.

^^ 1 do not pretend to be like Margaret, I do

care for pretty things. I think I love clothes'
said Grace, reflectively; '' and, what is more, I
never intend marrying any one who is not as
rich as rich can be ! "

I think you are quite right, my dear, quite
right, and having no money of your own."

'^ But I have plenty of money of my own,"
and Grace opened her eyes very wide, ^^I mean
I have as much as 1 want from Mr. Sandford,
but I should like to be extravagant."

^^ Excuse me, my dear Miss Rivers, pray
excuse me, but you are a little inconsistent,
you say you have money, plenty of money?
and then you are angry because your sister
gives hers away."

^' I have plenty for a girl, that is, Margaret
gives me everything I want, but I should like
to have a house in London, horses, carriages,
to be able to throw away money, to feel really
rich ! Now Margaret always puts such a disagreeable
question to me. When I say I want
something, she says ' Can you do without it ? '
Why one never would buy decent clothes li

one said that'' and Grace gave a very heavy
sigh.

'^ Supposing, my dear Miss Rivers, only supposing,
that you found a lady visiting to be
your chaperone, what share in the household
expenses would you take ? " Lady Lyons fixed
her eyes with great eagerness on the girl's
face.

^' None ! " said Grace, calmly.

Lady Lyons started.

^^ But if a lady went to London and took a
house, and got carriages and servants, all on
your account, she would expect you to share
expenses."

'then she would be quite wrong, and I
have no idea of going to London with any one
who knows nobody, who has not made even a
beginning. For instance," and Grace spoke
laughingly, '^ supposing you yourself thought
of such a thing, why there would be no use ; 1
daresay you know a few people, but all your
acquaintances are very likely fossils,"
and Grace burst into a hearty fit of laughter.

Lady Lyons drew her cloak round her and put
on her most dignified manner.

^^ I will wish you good morning, Miss Rivers;
of course my health alone would prevent my
ever thinking of undertaking such a charge ! "

^' Now you are offended with me, Lady
Lyons. Of course I was wrong to say fossils,
but the word somehow slipped out. I do beg
your pardon — you know I am a dreadful
goose — do forgive me ! "

Lady Lyons was not very easily appeased.
She was naturally very irate at the word used,
and she was deeply offended also at having
been in a way rejected before she had proposed
anything, but she wished to think over this
idea of Grace Rivers. She had always had a
hankering for London doctors, feeling vaguely
that in some wonderful way health and strength
and even youth might be renewed by their
united skill.

Though Grace had so decidedly put her
upon one side, she knew that this was not
final. She was shrewd enough to see that if

the girl could not carry out her plan in any
other way she might be asked to undertake
the task ; and, though she was an invalid, so
much of her ailment was on her nerves, that
cheerful society might do her good.

She extended the hand of forgiveness to
Grace, therefore, with a tinge of patronage, and
peace was so far established between them.

Much to Margaret's indignation Grace insisted
upon advertising, and her advertisement
caused no little discussion between the sisters.

I shall put it, ' A young lady of position,
and of good birth, wishes to reside with a lady
of . . . ' I am afraid if I put in ' rank' it will
look snobbish," she said, reflectively, '^ and I
do not care if she has rank or not. I only
want to be with somebody who knows everyone
I "

^^ I do not see how you can word it so as to
express your whole meaning," said Margaret ;
^^ and sou really do not know, yourself, what
you want."

Grace smiled.

^^ Oh, yes, I do. I want plenty of really
good society. Why go over it all again ? "

^' Because you are asking what I fancy is an
impossibility. If you were an heiress, then
all would be easy enough ; but with moderate
means, I repeat, no one with a position will be
troubled with such a charge."

Grrace however persisted, and when the
advertisement had been for some days staring
her in the face she received two answers.

'' Lady Turnbull will be glad to afford an
interview to the young lady wishing to go
into society, and wishes to know what sum
the young lady proposes to contribute in
return for chaperonage, board, lodging, and
anxiety of mind."

'' The woman must be mad ! " exclaimed
Grace. '^ Anxiety of mind ! 1 never heard
anything so ridiculous."

The other letter was from a Mrs. Geoffrey
Lansdowne Bill, who used her name in extenso
through it, from end to end.

^'Mrs. Geoffrey Lansdowne Bill, having rather

a more roomy house than she requires, would
resign two rooms to the young lady who advertised
for a happy and refined home and
chaperonage. Mrs. Geoffrey Lansdowne Bill,
having married two of her daughters well,
would be quite prepared to farther the young
lady's views in that direction.

'' The society among which she moves is
mixed, partaking of the literary and fashionable
equally. Mrs. Geoffrey Lansdowne Bill
of course expects to be very handsomely
remunerated for her trouble, and I wish to
hear from the young lady at once."

Even Margaret laughed heartily over this
effusion.

^^ A pity one of her literary friends did not
help her to write her letter," she said,
laughing, as she looked it over, '' and keep
her tenses in order."

'^ I should think the society was ^ mixed,' "
exclaimed Grace, wrathfully, sand I know
what you are thinking — you think that these
two failures will prove me to be quite wrong —

you imagine that this will convince me that
my plan is an impossible one — but I mean todo
it somehow''

'^ Very well," said Margaret, very quietly.

Only two days after this Grace came into
the room, with a rush, and announced that Mr.
Stevens was there and wished to see her ; and,
in the same breath, she added, ^^ I have seen
Lady Lyons, and she is going to look after
me, she has gone to London to see about
rooms, and now nothing remains but for you
to say how much money you can give me.
I shall want plenty, you know, and do not
keep me a moment in suspense." Before
Margaret could answer her she was gone.

There was always a bitter sense of humiliation
to poor Margaret when the question
of her husband's money had to be touched
upon.

She had seldom seen Mr. Stevens, though
they had a great deal of correspondence. He
never could understand her views. Having
married Mr. Drayton for his money in the first

instance, why did she refuse to benefit by his
will afterwards ?

This apparent inconsistency troubled him ;
he had judged her harshly before they had
met, and now he had learned to like her so
well that he wanted some explanation of her
conduct that would satisfy him.

He came to see her, now, because some
things had remained unexplained, and he felt
that much trouble and correspondence might
be saved by a personal interview.

Margaret never saw him without emotion.
She had that sort of instinct, we most of us
have, about the liking or disliking an acquaintance
has for us, and she knew that,
though he showed her civility and even compassion,
she had not his approval.

How could he approve of her, knowing only
the bare fact of her marriage ? Sometimes she
longed to tell him at any rate so much as
might set her right in his eyes, because the
disapprobation of an essentially just man was
painful to her.

But the circumstances that had led to her
marriage, and which she had judged to be so
important at the time, had been proved to
possess no real importance. She had yielded
to her sister's weak dread of a poverty she
detested, and her hope of escaping to a more
congenial atmosphere ; and, when she found
that Margaret's sacrifice had not altered her
conditions, she calmly accepted them as the
inevitable, and poor Margaret felt that all she
had suffered had not been in reality demanded
of her.

In this lay the sting of it all — and she
could not now bring herself back to that excitement
of feeling and agony of mind about
Grace which had pushed her into an action
she now so bitterly regretted.

'' You have resigned all Mr. Drayton's
money now, Mrs. Drayton," said Mr. Stevens,
after a long conversation. '^ This last cheque
to the Children's Hospital is the last balance,
as far as regards you. Of course your sister's
remains untouched, and, I suppose, as the

investment is a good one, she will not care to
disturb it."

'^ My sister's ? " inquired Margaret, wonderingly.
^^ What money do you refer
to?"

^^Do you not remember? Mr. Drayton
told me you made a great point of it — that
you asked him to settle something on her —
that in the event of his death she should be
provided for."

Margaret did remember it now with a hot
blush of shame. Yes, it had been part of her
bargain.

How much is there ? '' she asked in a low
voice.

Mr. Stevens looked at her in surprise.

'* There are fifteen thousand pounds ; the
life interest is left to you only ; the money
becomes hers at your death. You see, therefore,
you cannot alienate this sum. You
cannot give it away,"

^' I am sure my sister will think with
me . . . . " she began, and then stopped

VOL. III. I

suddenly ; she had a conviction that Grace
would think very differently.

'^I do not know if you can enter into my
feeling about Mr. Drayton's money," she said,
hurriedly. 'rit is no whim, no distaste for
the comforts and luxuries of life, but I cannot
! " she continued, with a tone of passion
surprising to him in one usually so quiet and
impassive before him. A great sob broke
her voice. She felt ashamed of betraying
emotion before one she conceived to be unsympathetic,
and in a moment or two she
checked all signs of it, and said in a calmer
tone : ^' I trust my sister will see all this as I
do."

'^ I do not think she will," said Mr. Stevens,
who felt intensely for her, and who liked her
better than he had ever thought possible.
^' But I do not think that her action in the
matter need disturb you, people are so differently
constituted. I myself fully appreciate
your feeling in the matter; it is honourable
to you, if you will allow me to say so."

I am so glad you understand' said
Margaret, simply. ^^ I have been afraid that
you could not approve . . . . "

She stopped short, afraid of again breaking
down ; and then, in a calmer voice, turned to
the subject of those scenes she had so lately
visited, and the wants of the poor children she
was so interested in.

He was more and more charmed with her ;
here was no high-flown nonsense, no exaggerated
sentiment, but all her schemes were
practical and full of common sense.

He stayed long, then he said,

^' The only thing to be settled now is,
whether the interest from the fifteen thousand
pounds you will have nothing to do with is
to be applied to charitable jDm-poses or paid
to your sister ? "

I will write to you."

'^ Do; and Mrs. Dorriman, do you know, is
trusting to me to see you safe through the
perils of your long journey."

^^ But it will give you so much trouble."
i2

^' Not at all ; " he spoke in such a kind tone
that Margaret felt she had gained him as a
friend.

'^ Dear Mrs. Dorriman," she said softly,
what a lesson she is to us all ; so unselfish
and so perfectly unconscious of all her own
virtues ! "

He was silent, and after a few moments he left
her and she waited for Grace, full of a certain
vague unrest, not knowing what she would
do, more than half afraid that she would see
nothing but satisfaction in the fact of having
an income, unable to sympathise with the
difference that lay between them, forgetting
that Grace knew, after all, very little of those
dreadful months, and that it was quite impossible
for her to see things from her point
of view.

She turned to'pleasanter things. Lying on
the table was a small parcel. She well knew
what it was, as she had a letter from the
publisher that morning.

The proofs of her poem lay before her.

Though she had concealed her name her first
idea was one almost of fear. She had poured
out her whole heart in these lines — her sorrows,
her bitter mourning over the past. Reading
it all now, how vividly it all came back to
her ! The lines on her child's death touched
her with fresh sorrow; again she felt the
terribly blank feeling of loss, and stretched
once more her empty arms towards an un-answering
grave.

It was into this wave of feeling that Grace's
voice broke, and it jarred upon her even more
than usual.

With a hurried knock, as though a formality
she might dispense with, and without waiting
for an answer, Grace came in, all her clothes
and her light flu hair in a state of discomposure.


^^ Margaret!" she exclaimed, '^ I am going
away ; either I leave the house or Jean — that
most tiresome, provoking, aggravating, old
Scotchman. I will not stay here if she
remains ! "

'^^ What in the world has happened now?"
said poor Margaret, worried and troubled, and
speaking with a certain sharpness not habitual
to her.

'^ You need not speak to me like that. Of
course you will take her part ; but she has
been so impertinent I will not stand it ! "

''I ask you again' said Margaret, ^^what
has she done ? She nursed you faithfully and
most kindly. What offence has she given you
now ? ''

'^ She called me a Jezebel, and then said I
had a leg in the grave."

^' I doubt her saying this, and — oh, Grace,
how can you ? " and Margaret got up and
looked steadily at her sister, her own face
flushing red as she spoke.

'^ It is nothing to make a fuss about," said
Grace, trying to laugh it off, '^ and it is you
yourself who are to blame ; you do not know
how trying it is to hear you say one day I am
looking very pale and am I well, and another

day something of the same kind. I will not
be ill, Margaret, do you hear ? "

I hear," said poor Margaret, in a low
voice, shocked and distressed. To her primitive
ideas the fact of Grace using rouge was a
degradation she could not get over.

^' You are as bad as Jean," said Grace,
angrily : '' and I have been waiting for that
tiresome man to be gone to tell you my plans.
What in the world had he to talk about
to-day ? "

'' His business referred more to you than tome,"
and Margaret, still annoyed and ruffled,
spoke very coldly.

Grace was in one of her most provoking
moods ; she was trying to hide any discomposure
she felt by an air of bravado, and
she resented Margaret's sharpness as though
her sister was injuring her deeply by her
tone.

'' Did he come to offer me his hand?" she
asked, drawing herself up and looking at
Margaret with raised eyebrows; ^^ perhaps.

middle-aged as he is, he may think as one

sister Oh, forgive me, darling Margaret !

I am hateful and detestable ! No one but you
would have patience with me I I will go and
ask Jean's pardon ! I will do anything only
don't look so ! "

She flung herself upon her knees by Margaret,
weeping passionately.

'' Grace, there are only we two ; let us love
each other, and not drift into unkindness,"
whispered Margaret, and Grace checked her
weeping and got up.

'' Now tell me," she said, ^^what you mean,
darling. In what way did his visit refer
to me ? "

''Mr. Drayton, it seems, to please me,"
began Margaret ''No," she said, ''I must
put it to you truthfully. When I agreed to
marry him I stipulated that out of his wealth
he should provide for you in such a way that
if I died or he died you should be beyond
want."

'' And what did he do ? " asked Grace,

breathlessly, her eyes sparkling with eagerness.


^^ He left fifteen thousand pounds to you and
the life interest to me, Grace."

'' And he left nothing to me outright !
What a shame ! " and Grrace's eyes filled with
angry tears.

'' He knew that so long as I lived you
would share anything I had," said Margaret,
gently.

'' Which it seems is little enough, as you
are reducing yourself to a state of pauperism
by degrees," said Grace, bitterly.

'^ You have all you want, and Mr. Sandford's
liberal allowance is more than sufficient
for us both."

"And as I do not wish you to die, darling,
and you are stronger than I am, it is a very
empty compliment."

^' I do not wish to touch this money, Grace.
I hope you will not touch it either."

'^ How can I touch it if it is yours ? "

^^But if I do not take the income it will

either accumulate for you or I believe you
could have the interest now."

'^ Delightful ! " exclaimed Grace. ^^ Now,
Margaret, you may spare yourself any remarks.
I have this money within my reach
and I intend to take it, — there ! "

CHAPTER V.

If Margaret had continued to have any hopes
of her sister's seeing matters as she saw them
she would soon have been undeceived.
Grace's spirits were a real trial to her, but
this was nothing compared to the congratulations
that poured in from Lady Lyons, and
even from Jean.

Grace announced to every one that she had
succeeded to a fortune, and made no secret of
its having been a legacy from her brother-in-law.


If any thing could have added to Margaret's
feeling about it, it was being congratulated

upon her husband's having done the right
thing.

Lady Lyons was quite bewildered by
Grace's impetuous confidences — though withall
her questioning she could not make out
exactly what the fortune was. Grace's expression
' heaps of money ' might mean anything.


How tiresome it was that she had definitely
refused her chaperonage ! How stupidly she
had acted — it was really very provoking that
sometimes people could not look forward and
see more clearly what lay behind the veil of
futurity.

Just as she was extremely provoked with
herself, Margaret, for the first time since her
trouble, came to see her.

She looked very fair and sweet in the plain
black dress she wore, and Lady Lyons, who
was kind-hearted, was touched by the signs of
sorrow so easily read in her countenance, and
received her with a momentary forgetfulness
of her own position as an invalid.

Margaret knew nothing of what had passed
between her sister and Lady Lyons, and she
had come because she was really anxious to
arrange something soon. She was urged by
Mrs. Dorriman to hurry north that she might
have the heat of the summer by the sea,
and she could not go till her sister was safely
placed with some one in whom she had some
confidence.

Before Lady Lyons could arrange her ideas,
and say what she wished about the legacy,
Margaret had asked her point-blank if she
would undertake the charge of Grace.

Lady Lyons was flattered and pleased, and,
for a moment or two, did nothing but talk incoherently
about the compliment.

^^ I do not think you need consider it a
great compliment," said Margaret, smiling,
^^ unless you feel that my good opinion is one.
It is best to be frank. Lady Lyons ; my sister
is not strong, she is not equal to all she wishes
to do, and I shall be much happier leaving her
under your care than with a stranger."

^^ I am not a stranger, certainly, and I have
friends, but I am not certain they will please
your sister. I am not fashionable, and I do
not know fashionable people."

'^ I do not think Grace will mind that'' said
Margaret, innocently.

Lady Lyons looked at her rather curiously.
'^ You and your sister are not at all like each
other, Mrs. Drayton ; when she spoke to me
she distinctly gave me to understand I was
not good enough and did not know any but
fossils. Yes, that was the word, fossils I "

There was an offended tone — it was evident
she had not forgiven Grace yet.

^^ Grace talks nonsense sometimes. Lady
Lyons; you can afford to laugh at these things.
I did not know she had already asked you to
take her to London, or I should not have
troubled you."

Oh ! she did not ask me ; we put a supposititious
case to each other," said Lady Lyons,
afraid now that things might still not come
to a happy conclusion. '^ Frankly, dear Mrs.

Drayton, I should, myself, like to go to
London for a while. I often feel one of those
good London doctors would set me up after
a bit. 1 have often wished to be nearer them.
Now from here, by the time I get to the
station, and then get to their houses, and then
back again, I am quite worn out, and then
there is the expense."

'' Yes, there is the expense." Margaret
spoke a little dreamily ; she could not help
thinking that if Lady Lyons spent her time
running after doctors Grace would hardly
have what she bargained for.

"Of course, Mrs. Drayton, expense is nothing
to you who throw away thousands," said Lady
Lyons in an injured tone.

Do I throw away thousands ? " asked Margaret,
who did not know how busy rumour
had been as regarded her fortune and what she
had done with it. '^I think not, but I was
wondering, perhaps, if the charge of a young-girl
like my sister was not too much for you."

^^ Oh, no ! " exclaimed Lady Lyons, afraid

of seeing all her visions fade away. ^' I only-meant
that I might at first see some one, and
be put in a right way."

'' Grace will want to go everywhere, to all
the plays, and concerts, and every attainable
thing," said Margaret, impressively. " You
must not accept the position with your eyes
shut."

'' I assure you, dear Mrs. Drayton, I do
understand it all, a young girl, and never
having had any pleasure. I only mentioned
about doctors, because it is, you know, one of
the advantages of London — you can get, as a
learned friend of mine once said, the best
advice for your soul and body."

This conversation did not impress Margaret
very favourably, but time was running
on, and she had given up her house. With all
Lady Lyons' nonsense and absurdity she was
a kind-hearted woman, and no one would ever
have any real influence with Grace.

That young lady took it all very calmly.
She did not object to Lady Lyons, or evince

any surprise at her being ready now to do
what she had proclaimed herself reluctant todo
before ; but she was so completely absorbed
by the approaching change in her existence
that Margaret was hurt to find how little she
seemed to feel the separation from herself.

The sisters parted. Margaret gave her last
look, and saw Grace in the celebrated brown
velvet, which, in a warm June day, was singularly
inappropriate, looking fragile but
radiant, ordering about the porters, and quite
giving herself the airs of a young person of
consequence.

With a sigh, Margaret leaned back; this one
close tie did not bring her much satisfaction.

As the train swept on through the rich
country, however, the new expectation, the
movement, and change of scene, wrought their
own work. The soft colour came into her face.
For the first time she found herself looking
forward instead of looking back.

Everything was pleasant to her that day.
She was alone, Jean having sturdily refused to

VOL. III. K

share her carriage, and she had nothing to disturb
her. Never had she seen the foliage
richer, she thought, and she looked at the
myriads of cowslips and ox-eyed daisies with
a sudden longing to be near them. She had a
book with her, but she never opened it. She
had had a great pleasure, in a most friendly
letter from her publisher — with a substantial
proof of his admiration for her book of poems,
and asking for the names of those she wished
ts send them to.

Margaret smiled over this request. She had
not a friend in the world she cared to tell
about her writing. Yes ! one friend, Sir
Albert Gerald, and to him she would send her
little book and write. He had been so kind,
and he was very good.

She was roused from these reflections by the
entrance of Mr. Stevens into the carriage. He
had been in a smoking-carriage part of the
way, and he now came in, bringing various
papers to while away the tedium of the journey.

His entrance broke up her reverie. She

I

had grown to like him, though she sometimes
thought how much finer a character his would
be if he could only put suspicion more on one
side. His first impulse was to doubt everything
and everybody ; and his caution was
carried to such an extreme that his friendships
were few, and only extended after a long
period of probation.

The train stopped at York, and Margaret,
under his escort, went to get some refreshment.
As she was returning to her carriage she
heard her name uttered in surprise, and in
another moment Sir Albert Gerald himself
stood beside her.

She was unfeignedly glad to see him, and
they planted into quite an animated conversation,
forgetting for the moment everything
save that accident had brought them
once more together.

Margaret was first recalled to the present by
Mr. Stevens, who reminded her that the train
would go on without her if she did not hurry.
Even then she turned naturally to Sir Albert,,

k2

and he hurried along with her ; and, to Mr.
Stevens's great dissatisfaction, got in and
calmly sat down opposite to her.

Why the older man took exception to this
no one can say ; but his suspicions were all on
the alert and everything the young man did
seemed to him significant.

Margaret, of course, introduced them to each
other, explaining, as Mr. Stevens thought, in a
manner utterly unnecessary, that he was travelling
down to Scotland to take care of her.
But the brief words seemed only an interruption
to the-flow of talk. At first they both
tried to bring him into the conversation, butin
vain. He sat grimly in a corner, determined
not to be won over by a good-looking
young fellow of whom he knew nothing, and
wondering at Margaret's glow of colour and
animation. Once he heard a little laugh, and
lie looked up surprised he could make nothing
of their conversation. Some one had written a
book of poetry — but what could there be said
about such nonsense ? Any sane man who

had something to say could surely say it in
good honest prose''

Do yoa like poetry' asked Sir Albert,
suddenly turning to him pleasantly.

^^No, I don't," Mr. Stevens answered with
quite unnecessary shortness. ''' I never see the
use of it."

'' If useful things only were given to us
here," said Margaret, gently, ^^ our lives would
be very dull."

^' I have no poetry in my life, and I do not
feel dull," he answered in a softer manner to
her.

'^ Are you sure you have no poetry in your
life?" asked Sir Albert, pleasantly — he was
anxious to make friends with a man Margaret
liked and respected.

'' It is difficult to say where it comes into ray
life," said Mr. Stevens, more politely, melting
a little under the influence of so pleasant a
voice and manner. ^' I am manager in a
manufactory, and work is the order of the
day. Till we leave off and I go out home

I never breathe the fresh air or see the sunshine."


^^ But they greet you, then," said Sir Albert,
earnestly ; "the play of the sunshine upon the
river, the ripple of the brook, the endless
stories found in every leaf and blossom, the
song of the birds, all these sweet gifts are
nature's poems given to make us better and wiser
men, and happier ones too," he added in a
lower voice.

'put in that way," began Mr. Stevens;
and then, a little ashamed of being influenced
so soon by a man he had never seen before, he
said more abruptly, '' I think bringing sentiment
into work is the ruin of every thing—
what do we want with it ? If we use our
faculties, and work to the best of our ability, I
conceive that is all that is expected of us. I
think life is an easy enough problem,
though philosophers try and make it out otherwise.
We are given two paths, a right one
and a wrong one ; the right one is often difficult,
the wrong one frequently pleasant ; it is

our own fault if we choose it, and it leads us
to disaster''

'^ If we use our faculties ^^' repeated Margaret,
in her gentle voice, with a certain
emphasis on the words. ^^ Do we use our
faculties, Mr. Stevens, if we shut our eyes (that
are given to us to make use of) and do not
observe what is lovely and fair around us ? "

Mr. Stevens was a little staggered by this
question. '' Looking at flowers and mountains
and listening to birds singing, is not poetry,"
he said, obstinately.

^' But if we read a poem and appreciate it,
if we listen to music, if we see a fine painting,
in short, if we see the poetry in other people's
work, it has a good influence on our minds."
Si]* Albert spoke earnestly.

'^ I don't see that at all. Working people
have no time for poetry and pretty things.
Their lives are very different."

'' You are indeed mistaken. Much of the
misery and the vice amongst the very poorest
people are caused by the squalor and absence

of any charm or higher influence in their lives.
This is so well recognised that many people
are spending time and money in trying to
improve the look of things for the poor. Think,
Mr. Stevens' said Margaret, earnestly, '^ only
think what it must be for a hard-working man
to go home to a wretched, comfortless room,
without paper on the walls, or an atom of home-look
about the place, a tired-out wife, and
children cross because their natural energies
have no outlet. If he could go home to a comfortable
room with cheerful colour about it
and find it clean. If the children, instead of
having access only to the grimy streets, could
jDlay in the squares and gardens, so selfishly
shut up from them now, their lives would be
better, they would take heart, and not find the
one relief, the public-house afterwards."

^^ And a nice sight the squares and gardens
would be, in a very short time," Mr. Stevens
said, a little moved by Margaret's extreme
earnestness, and trying to hide that it affected
him.

'why should they be? Look at the Temple
gardens, look at places already open to the
public ! I would give anything to see all these
places thrown open to all''

'rand in Paris everything is open, and
who shall say we are less well-behaved than
the French?" said Sir Albert, backing her
up.

'two against one is hardly fair," said Mr.
Stevens, the last shred of prejudice dropping
from him, and beginning to find that there was
something very delightful in a man who could
talk of something besides work.

When after another hour Sir Albert got out
of the train Mr. Stevens was quite cordial in
expressing his hope that they would meet
again at no distant time.

Before they parted. Sir Albert, with a glance
at Margaret, promised to send him a book of
poetry that would convert him.

I am going to travel for a year or so," he
continued, turning to Margaret, " then I also
shall go to Scotland''

She understood what he meant. He was
very kind and very thoughtful ; but that now
that could never be !

When he had left, and the train had started
again, she was very much amused to hear Mr.
Stevens say —

'^ There is a great deal to like in that young
man. Have you known him long ? "

Margaret answered, and told him the story
of his most terrible accident.

'^ And all this happened before your marriage
? Most extraordinary ! " he said.

Margaret was annoyed with herself, because
she felt herself grow crimson.

When he saw her colour he said, with
greater emphasis —

'' Most extraordinary ! "

Both she and Jean were tired enough when
they reached Perth. Margaret, indeed, had a
certain mental excitement which prevented her
sleeping. With the tenderness of conscience,
which amounted to something akin to morbidness,
she accused herself of having forgotten

because she had allowed herself to be
happy.

^'Alas!" she thought, 'ris it possible that
I am the same miserable broken woman who
cared not even for the light of day a few
weeks ago ? And now a change of scene,
meeting with an old friend, has sent courage
through my veins, and made life seem sweet tome
again."

But there was no use lamenting over feelings
which had gone, and she was too honest with
herself to blind herself to the fact of being
different. Her grief for her child was there
sharp and painful, for a mother cannot forget.
Eut the crushing sense of having done something
unworthy had been lifted from her.
The tone of gentle respect and sympathy
shown her by Sir Albert had swept false
theories upon one side. She still said to herself
, ' ' I have sinned ! " but she no longer said,
'^ Heaven can forgive, but man never can ! "
and the sharpest sting was gone.-

Jean was in a state of wild excitement as

they drew near the old haunts. Her head was
turning in rapid succession from side to side
as she recognised the various landmarks.

^^ Eh ! " she exclaimed aloud, greatly to the
amusement of the other passengers, sphere is
the old kirk and the hill behind it, just as I
left them."

^' You did not expect them to run away, did
you ? '' said an elderly man, watching her
keenly.

"I do not know what I expected," she
answered, in an abstracted manner, ^'but they
are there — and that is a very great deal tome."



Margaret had no associations, but she also
looked eagerly at a place of which she had
heard so much.

The great brown hills were sleeping in the
sunshine, their beautiful outlines sharp and
clear against a pale sky, on which floated a
few golden clouds. Between some fir-trees she
at length saw the sea.

But it seemed to her that never had she

appreciated it so fully before. The purple
shadows sweeping over it made the bright
radiance of the sun's last rays exquisitely
beautiful, and the crest of each restless wave
seemed a moving mass of gold. As the train
drew up, her eyes were still dazzled by the
brilliancy of the picture.

Mrs. Dorriman, inclined to be tearful, and
quite resolved not to give way, made singular
faces, as she held that forlorn figure to her
kindly heart.

'^ Do not cry, my dear'' she said, in a low
voice, as she watched Margaret's calm face,
expecting every moment to see her breakdown,
and quite astonished at her calmness
and self-command.

Margaret was not inclined to cry. The
source of her tears lay far too deep. She had
wept for her child for months, and still there
came that painful spasm if something brought
it suddenly before her ; but Mrs. Dorriman had
no association in connection with it. She
reminded her of her girlhood, of Lornbay, of

all that happened there, and any emotion she
felt was softened to her now by the soothing
influence of Sir Albert Gerald's kindness and
sympathy.

^^It is like coming home," she said to Mrs.
Dorriman.

'' My poor child ! "

^^It is pleasant to feel so at home. I seem
to know that bent fir-tree and the look of
the hills — and oh! how perfect the air is
here ! ''

"Yes, it is fine," said Mrs. Dorriman,
putting her sentiment and tears upon one side
as she saw that Margaret needed neither.

^^What a delicious scent! What is it?"
exclaimed Margaret, as the famous pony-carriage
bowled along towards. Inchbrae.

'^ The gorse in full bloom. There is nothing
like it," answered the little lady, full of
happiness now she had some one who could
appreciate all these things at her side. '' My
own idea is that the breath of the sea and the
scent of the gorse-flower and heather would

make any one well ; and I am so glad, dear —
so glad you are here."

^'I am glad to be here," said Margaret,
thoughtfully ; ^^ it is like a beautiful awakening
in another and a fairer world after a bad
dream."

*^ And Margaret, love, I do so want to ask
you something."

'^ Ask me anything you like."
'ewe are not exactly skin,' as Jean would
say, but would you give me a name ? I am
too old to be called Anne, but will you not call
me something else ? ''

^' I always do. I always think of you as if
you were my own, my very own, relation, and
do call you ' Auntie.' Will that do ? " and
Margaret bent and kissed her.

^^Oh!" said Mrs. Dorriman with a sigh,
^^you do not know how sweet it is to have
some one to love you. I have had so little
affection all my life, and sometimes it makes
me feel a little forlorn. I think having a sister
must be such an enormous comfort."

^^ Sometimes," said Margaret, '^ and sometimes
a great anxiety ; of course, few ties can
come up to it," she added, hastily, afraid of
allowing even Mrs. Dorriman to know the
intense and bitter disappointment Grace was
to her.

They arrived at Inchbrae, and, if Margaret
had admired it at all before, she could not
help being still more enthusiastic about all
now. Can anything in nature excel the charm
of a well-kept flower-garden with its gay
flower - beds and velvet lawn, and a background
of pines with their red stems glowing
in the sunset, and a magnificent range of rocks
behind it ; while through the delicate and
graceful birch-trees glimpses of the sea in all
its changing beauty and capricious moods is
there to give that sense of the Infinite which
raises our thoughts above and beyond it all?

Margaret's eyes filled with sudden tears.
The loveliness of it all touched and soothed
her, and yet she was nearly weeping. She
seemed all at once to see that she had

hitherto missed something in her life which
was now given her. She put up her hand as
Mrs. Dorriman was going to speak, and asked,
in the lowered tone of one who is conscious of
being moved and charmed beyond expression,
what the noise was near them ?

^^ It sounds like a river ; it is distinct from
the solemn thud of the sea I hear breaking
on the rocks."

It is the river ; that is the sound I missed
so much when I went to Rent on," answered
Mrs. Dorriman, full of the delight of having
Margaret's sympathy.

^ ' It has a rushing mighty sound like the
wings of a relentless fate'' said Margaret,
dreamily ; ^^ I never was so near a river
before."

^' Do you like being so near it ? Some
people think it disturbs them ; that louder
noise through all is the waterfall. Come and
have some tea now, and, when you are rested,
we will go by the river walk."

'' Everything is so lovely," she exclaimed, as

VOL. III. L

she followed Mrs. Dorriman into the bright
little drawing-room, and noticed the pretty-freshness
of everything.

She was delighted with her own room, which
was looking towards the sea.

^' How you must have felt leaving all this ! ''
she exclaimed as she looked out upon it all.

'''' I did feel it then, but you soon became my
great comfort and pleasure. I am glad I
went, for many reasons, but one chief reason
is that I learnt to know you there."

Margaret had but one vision of the sea in
her memory. She had thought the grand
sweep of the bay and the mouth of the Clyde
heavenly, and it lingered in her memory as
she had watched it with Grace that first night,
and had been so entranced with its smooth
beauty, upon which the moonlight had thrown
such a lovely and silvery veil.

But with all the associations of that place
and the vivid remembrance of Sir Albert
Gerald's yacht gliding into the bright moonlit
streak, like a bird ready to fold her wings

and rest, — she felt that there could bb no comparison.


No sea, rippling in smoothly, far away from
the turbulence and strife, sheltered in the
great arms of a bay nearly surrounding it,
smiling there even when fierce and angry
beyond the shelter, can possibly equal in
grandeur the same sea crashing in against
perpendicular rocks, dashing itself with terrific
strength against an ironbound coast, as though
scorning the obstacles in front of it ; and Margaret,
her whole heart tender and sensitive to
impressions of natural beauty, was carried out
of herself by this new scene, so suddenly presented
to her.

How small, how little, seemed the former
ideas she had had of the place. She was too
full of thought to speak much, and her silence
suited Mrs, Dorriman, who, while striving to
keep every word she said away from subjects
likely to touch upon poor Margaret's loss,
betrayed by the very pains she took, by her
sudden pauses and the hesitation of her

l2

manner, that there was an expectation on
her side of some emotion lie did not wish to
arouse.

This would not do.

There were some things in Margaret's life
that she could never touch upon with anyone.
Her husband's madness had been very-terrible,
so terrible that she never willingly
allowed it to remain in her mind, and she
never mentioned him.

It was a frightful and crushing trial out of
which she had come into the light. Her wings
had been scorched and broken in the conflict,
but they had not been injured for all time.
The stain was not permanent, and she had
passed through it all without understanding it,
except so far as this, that she believed to every
woman an instinct is given as a help. She
had wilfully erred against hers, and she had
suffered cruelly.

But of her child yes, of her child she
was longing to speak ! the want of sympathy
in Grace had sent back all the touching records,

so dear to a mother's heart, and she knew
that Mrs. Dorriman would give sympathy.

^^It is a grief to me," she said, gently. 'Hhat
you never saw my child. I should like to tell of
it, if my speaking of it does not trouble you."

Oh ! my dear," said Mrs. Dorriman, and
her voice trembled a little. ^' Is it wise for
you?"

'' It is wise'' answered Margaret. " I often
wish I had a friend near me to whom I could
sometimes speak of it — it hurts me to feel that
it is not to be mentioned before me, while I
feel it still so near me."

Mrs. Dorriman, her anxiety checked about
giving Margaret pain, could only answer by a
tighter grasp of the arm she clung to.

Yes, at first it was very dreadful to me.
Now at times tears still come, but I am beginning
to think of it as waiting for me, not as
lying here and leaving me childless and alone.
It was very fair, auntie, and had winning ways.
. ." She stopped for a moment and went
on in the subdued voice which was her characteristic.

" At first I was so selfish and I prayed
for death, I, who have still much to do."

You have seen much illness lately ? "

^'I have seen many terrible things," she
answered, earnestly. ' ' I have seen troubles
and trials that dwarf mine ; I try to help ; it
is a great blessing to be able to help. When I
stroke the little faded cheek of another child
I still think of mine, for I am still selfish in my
grief; but the joy of seeing a child recover kills
the selfishness, and 1 begin more to do things for
God's sake and theirs, than for the sweet little
face always present to me. I am happier
since I have learned how to make others
happy ! "

She paused, folding her hands, and looking
to Mrs. Dorriman like some fair saint, with her
unclouded eyes and the sweet folded lips that
were both grave and tender.

^^ Here there is poverty, sickness, and often
sorrow," said Mrs. Dorriman ; ^^ but somehow,
with these surroundings, poverty does not seem
so grim."

'' Here there are springs of water, fresh air
and this,'^ said Margaret, pointing to the river;
'^ but in London, water is taxed even to the
very poor, the very kindling of their fires is a
difficulty. Here the people have at any rate
kindling," and she added, pointing to a woman
in the distance, who was carrying a bundle of
furze,

And peat for the cutting ; and yet the
ambition of many is to leave the country and
flock to the towns."

'^ The sound of higher wages is tempting,
but what I hope to live to see one day is the
middle-man done away with."

^' The middle-man ! " exclaimed Mrs. Dor-roman;
'^ I do not understand you, my dear."

I mean those who pay the manufacturer so
little that he often cannot raise wages, or do
what he would like to do, and who grasp from
the rich as well ; and the working class I think
of do not understand the question, and not
understanding are unjust. They blame the
rich, but the rich are not to blame ; they pay

often a hundred per cent, where the workman
does not get ten. It is the middle-man who
grows rich grasping on either side, and who
spend their money in eating and drinking.
They help no art or science, and they are
indignant if they are appealed to for charitable
aid. You do not know how bad it is ! " and
Margaret's cheek flushed with her earnest,
almost passionate, speech.

'' I never thought of it before' said Mrs.
Dorriman, ^'and now I do not quite understand.
Shopkeepers have to pay high rents
and rates and things."

'^ Oh, I do not mean the better class of shopkeepers,"
said Margaret, 'rand 1 am talking of
small shops I know about in London where
coals are sold by the pound and tea in ounces,
and those places where shirts are made, literally
made, for twopence. It is this misery that
should be attacked, these things should be
made impossible !"

Why can it not be done ? " said Mrs.
Dorriman^

*' Because ours is such a free country that
interference is not often possible. Oh, there
is so much to put right it does not bear thinking
about," and the two turned up the riverside
and home.

CHAPTER VI.

Grace was much too excited to feel keenly
the parting with Margaret; indeed, the gravity
of her young sister, while, of course, to be
accounted for, she felt altogether as a drag
upon her energies.

Like other girls of her peculiarly thoughtless
nature she hated having to think of anything
that was not what she considered cheerful ;
and she had not the power of throwing herself
into the sorrows of any one, even of a sister,
whose one fault it was, that she had allowed
her clear instincts to be obscured and darkened
by her passionate love for Grace, and her wish

to give what she thought her very life depended
upon at that moment.

Accustomed to be considered, it was new to
her to find that she had twice to change her
place to suit Lady Lyons, who was one of the
women who imagine that, whatever happens
to belong to another, from a husband to a
corner in a rail way carriage, must be superior
to anything they have themselves.

Grace was good-humoured, and changed her
seat cheerfully, although she felt the difference.
Margaret would have borne any discomfort
rather than disturb her. But the thought that
she was going to join the world in London
and form one of the giddy throng was too
enchanting to her not to support her under
any surprises— she was so determined to be
happy.

She was surprised beyond measure that
Margaret's marriage should have left her the
winner in the race ; but it was satisfactory
that, as she cared for money and Margaret
did not, she should have it, and Margaret

would soon forget that horrible man, who was,
however, not all horrible, since he had done
this.

*^ Pray see about your luggage, Miss Rivers,"
said Lady Lyons, very languidly, when they
arrived at the station.

'^ Surely your maid can do that," said
Grace, with a little toss of her head.

*' How can she possibly know your luggage
when she has never seen it ? " asked Lady
Lyons, fretfully, but not without a show of
reason.

^' Maids should have instincts," said Grrace,
as she sailed along the platform to point out
her boxes.

This difficulty overcome they got into a
cab, the maid following in another. But, as
Lady Lyons was always afraid of being cold,
she took a bearskin of some standing, a roll
of rugs, and a bottle of lavender-water. She
gave the man unnecessarily minute directions,
and pulled up her window. It was the last
days of a lot June.

Grace let lier window down with a bang
that very nearly shivered it to atoms.

'^ My dear Miss Rivers, pray put up the
window. I have such a languid circulation,
and I am ordered by my medical men to be
careful about draughts."

^^ There really cannot be a draught when
one window is hermetically closed' said Grace
very coolly ; ^' be as stuffy as you like on your
side of the carriage, but I must have fresh
air."

Lady Lyons was a little daunted, and said
nothing. In a moment or two she began to
cough, a short cough improvised for the occasion.
Grace took no notice.

^* If I am very ill you will have to send
to Wandsworth for Mr. Jones," she said, at
length.

'' Why should you be ill ? Fresh air is
what you want. Lady Lyons. You are coughing
on purpose."

*^My dear Miss Rivers."

Wait till you hear me cough ; then you

will know a real cough when you hear one,"
said Grace laughing and putting up a little
bit of window. She did not want to quarrel
with Lady Lyons, but she did intend to assert
her independence from the first.

They went to a private hotel, where again
Grace interfered. She would have nothing
but the best rooms, and all the little arrangements
put forward in an economical form by
poor Lady Lyons were ruthlessly swept upon
one side.

*^I did not come here to economise," said
Grace, with a grand air, as they took the
rooms in Brook Street.

For the first few days Grace was content,
and more than content. She did not care
about being seen till she was what she called
properly dressed, and she certainly knew what
she wanted, and got it, as people usually do
when they have the command of money.

Then came the grand question of society,
and poor Lady Lyons was completely at a
standstill.

^^ Surely you know a few people, Lady
Lyons ; some one to make a beginning ? "

Lady Lyons reflected.

^^ I have been out of it so Ions," she murmured
; '^ yes, there is a very kind friend ; I
wonder if she is in London ? "

'' Let us find out," said Grace, ringing for
the book, and turning over the leaves
rapidly. '' What is her name ? "

''I— I think it begins with a P," said Lady
Lyons ; '^ but, dear me, it is so stupid of me.
I cannot remember her name at this moment."

^^ Your kind friend and you have evidently
not been corresponding lately," said Grace,
laughing.

My dear Miss Rivers ! "

"Now I have got the P's," said Grace, *^ and
I will run through the list."

^* Penshursti " exclaimed Lady Lyons. '' Yes,
Penshurst is the name."

There are seventeen," said Grace, in an
aggravated tone, '^ and they live all over
London. What is Mr. Penshurst ? "

I do not know."

Ha ! " said Grace suddenly, *' this is funny.
Here is a name Penryn. I used to know one
of the girls a little, the daughter of Sir Jacob
Penryn, and here is his address. I wonder if
she would remember me ? "

Was she at school with you ? " asked Lady
Lyons, with evident relief.

'^ Oh ! dear no. Her father had a place in
the neighbourhood and we went there sometimes,
my sister and I, because our father had
shown some kindness to a son of his who had
died."

^^ But, my dear, that is a very good thing
indeed; write at once, and say you have come
into a fortune and are here. A beginning! Why
he is an M.P., and has his own house in
London."

^'No, I will not write," said Grace, decidedly,
and my fortune is hardly worth speaking
about, but I will call, and if they wish to renew
acquaintance they can return it."

With this Lady Lyons had to be satisfied —

indeed, she was more than satisfied, as the
difficulty seemed to her to be completely overcome.
She took heart now and went off on
her own account to see a doctor, and paid a
good deal to be assured there was nothing
whatever seriously the matter with her.

This was hardly what she had expected or
what she anticipated — she was not at all sure
she was pleased.

Grace in the meantime left her card, and
wrote on the top ^'In London for a short
time with Lady Lyons."

In a few days Miss Penryn called, a very
nice-looking girl, dressed with extreme simplicity.
She apologized for her mother and
brought her card, and an invitation from Lady
Penryn for a meeting to be held in her house
that week.

When she had left, Grace surveyed her
elaborate white toilette and thought her lace
frills too numerous.

'' It is overdone," she said, discontentedly, to
Lady Lyons.

YOL. III. M

'' It is very sweet' said Lady Lyons, who
was not thinking of her 'young friend's" dress?
but who was weighing in her own mind the
pros and cons in connection with Lady Penryn's
meeting.

She wished to make acquaintance ; on
the other hand she was terribly afraid of having
an appeal made to her pocket, and she was
one of many who make small payments to
stated charities, and do nofc like spontaneous
action

Grace settled the point for her, saying with
her usual nonchalance,

' You will make your first appearance as my
chaperone. Lady Lyons."

After that she could make no objection, but
she made many inquiries about Lady Penryn.

'' What is she like, my dear ? Is she nice ? ''

'^ I should say that word describes her
exactly; my remembrance of her is that she
is much too nice ; to be sincere, she always
said, • Dear thing ! ' and got rid of us as soon as
possible."

*^ She may not have liked children," observed
Lady Lyons, lucidly.

^^ Possibly," but Grace did not think that
she was much fonder of grown-up people.
She and Margaret had always unfavourably
contrasted Lady Penryn's neglect and Sir
Jacob's heartiness.

'' Gratitude about her son," began Lady
Lyons, ^' that must have been there at any
rate."

^' Oh ! the poor man father knew so well
was not her son. She has no son. There
were two or three by a first wife; this girl is
not her daughter."

When Grace and Lady Lyons arrived in
Cromwell Road they found the whole place
crowded with people, mostly elderly ; a few
girls, and the men might be counted on their
fingers. Papers were handed to them, and
Grace with much amusement found that the
meeting was convened about woman's
suffrage.

Lady Penryn in a rich crimson velvet was
M 2

very cordial in her reception of both Lady
Lyons and Grace, advised them to sit on the
rights said they would find plenty of friends,
and turned her back upon them to receive
somebody else.

Miss Penryn was not there, or, if there,
Grace could not see her.

For upwards of two hours they sat in a room
which in spite of open windows was stifling,
seated on very small cane chairs, and hearing
speeches from men and women more or less
celebrated, upon a subject they neither of them
took the faintest interest in.

No question of the day ever interested
Grace. Lady Lyons never understood the
question, and the injustice of women who have
large control of money, and who contribute
largely to the revenue in many ways and yet
cannot give a vote, did not give her a pang.
She knew that some women had made the
subject ridiculous ; she was afraid of ridicule,
and she did not take the trouble of disentangling
the question from the absurdities

reared round it, and judging it on its own
merits.

'^I don't like being here at all* whispered
Lady Lyons ; ^' I am so afraid of being taken
for a strong-minded woman."

^' Pray do not be afraid of that' said Grace,
satirically; 'that is the very last thing your
worst enemy would accuse you of."

The meeting dragged on, and the heat
became quite suffocating. All at once Grace
gave a little cry, and threw herself back,

closing hero



eyes.

''A lady fainting! Air! Water! Salts!
Sal volatile I " shouted dozens of voices at
once.

Grace, still with closed eyes, was carried
out of the room, where Lady Lyons gladly
remained with her, in a small back room, consecrated
to Lady Penryn's writings.

When the meeting dispersed she came in to
see how Grace was, and was overwhelming in
her affectionate attentions.

'' Poor dear thing," she said.

'^ The heat was very great," said Lady
Lyons, apologetically.

Not in my rooms," said Lady Penryn,
very decidedly. '' The ventilation is admirably
done — a private arrangement of my
own."

Lady Lyons was too much awed to contradict
her,

'poor dear thing! how do you feel
now?" said Lady Lyons, turning again to
Grace.

^^I feel better. Lady Lyons, and we will go
home," said Grace. ^' And Lady Penryn, I
must apologise for disturbing you all. What
funny things everybody said. Do yoti really
believe in all that was said to-day ? "

Lady Penryn coughed gently.

'^ My dear, the object of a meeting is to
ventilate the subject."

Oh ! I see. Well then, you do not mind
my saying that it all struck me as very
absurd ! "

^' The question in itself is not absurd ; and it

should interest the moneyed class ; and it is of
general interest."

'^ Then it should interest me, as I am one of
the moneyed class," laughed Grace ; ^^ at least,
I have an income all to myself."

She was amused to see Lady Penryn look at
her with redoubled interest when she made
this statement.

'^ Let us trust, dear child, that you will use
your wealth wisely. Now will you not have
some tea or wine ? " she continued, waxing
hospitable.

Lady Lyons accepted, and they went downstairs
before they left. Lady Penryn came ujd
to Grace with a good deal of grace, and kissed
her on both cheeks.

^^ For the sake of old times," she said,
plaintively.

'' She is a sweet young thing," she continued,
"" and has fulfilled the promise of her
youth ; " and Grace noted that she took care
not to introduce either of the men standing
near.

*' We will soon meet again, I trust ^^^ she
said, in a pathetic voice.

'* That depends upon you," said Grace,
quietly. '^ When you return our visit I hope
we shall be at home."

"Ah! till then, good-bye. Sweet thing —
good-bye."

'^ Sweet thing ! — good-bye," mimicked
Grace, as they got into the brougham.

'^ Oh ! my dear, hush ! — some one might hear
you."

^^Yes, the coachman. I think we had better
pursue your Mrs. Penshurst."

^' If I could but remember anything about
her husband — but I do not. I lay awake for
half-an-hour last night, and I cannot recall his
Christian name. It may be Charles, but I
think it is John — no, it may be James," and
Lady Lyons looked blankly before her.

Grace threw herself back in the brougham
with a good deal of petulance. They had
been three weeks in London and had not
achieved a single acquaintance.

As the carnage turned into Brook Street
Grace suddenly caught sight of Sir Albert
Gerald. She pulled the check-string, and
called him hj name.

Much surprised, he turned round and came
up to her. She was so near Margaret that it
was a pleasure to meet her.

^'' Come and see me," said Grace : '' come to
tea. This is Lady Lyons. I want particularly
to see you — can ycu come tomorrow ? "

''If you could see me early — but I leave
town tomorrow afternoon for a few days."

'' I will see you at any time. Eleven in the
morning will find me clothed and in my right
mind, in the stuffy little sitting-room we call
our own''

Till then, good-bye' he said, stepping
back, and raising his hat.

^' That poor girl looks frightfully ill," he
thought, '^ as if she had not very long to live ; ''
and he went on from this idea to think of Margaret.
What a curious difference there was
between the two sisters— the one so calm and

sweet and so thoughtful, the other so restless
and so frivolous.

He kept his word, however, and found Grace
in a flutter of spirits, a huge Peerage and the
Morning Post in front of her.

It was evident that there was some request
trembling on her tongue, and that she was
longing for the first conventional phrases to be
over ; the inquiries about Margaret were answered
so indifferently, and Grace was all the
time keeping a place in the Peerage open with
a finger of her left hand.

Now, Sir Albert, I do want you to do
something for me," she said, with more earnestness
than she had yet shown.

'* If I can," he said, seriously.

Yes, you can if you will."

Acres ?^^ he asked.

The Duchess of Wellington is going to
give a big 'at-home.' She is your aunt. She
is also going to give a ball. Could you not
get a card for Lady Lyons and for me to one
or other ? "

"I think I could," he said; "she's a very
dear old lady and I could ask her. She may
refuse but I do not think she will."

'' Sir Albert, excuse the strength of my language,
but you are a darling, there ! " exclaimed
Grace, laughing and colouring a little.
'•' You do not know how I long to go to just
one swell ball, to see it all. It is so dietary
moving about in this big place and knowing
not one single soul."

I am sure it must be," said Sir Albert,
sympathetically ; " it is very natural you
should wish to see it all for yourself. I am
afraid you will not enjoy it, but I think I
can get you the invitation''

I am sure to enjoy it," and Grace clapped
her hands with delight. '' Do you not
enjoy it ? "

Not much now," he said ; '^ I am very
fond of certain people, and I find every one
very kind. I like to meet pleasant people
in moderation, but I do not go in for much
gaiety."

Only think ! " said Grace ; ^' I have never
in all my life been to a good, big ball, never! ''

The novelty may amuse you certainly ;
the only thing is, that if you do not know
many people it is very dull looking on and
seeing others dancing and talking. If I am
there I can take care of you and introduce
some men to you at any rate."

'^ You certainly are a most delightful friend,"
said Grace, enthusiastically, '" and I really
do not know how to thank you enough ! "

*' It is a great pleasure doing anything
for you, Miss Rivers. I think you know
why!"

Oh, yes, indeed I do. It is for Margaret."


*' Did she tell you I met her accidentally ?
I got into her railway carriage without knowing
she was there."

'' She never told me," said Grace ; " Mr.
Stevens escorted her till all the changes and
junctions and things were passed."
" Who is Mr. Stevens ? "

''He was Mr. Drayton's manager, and mixed
up in his affairs. I thought you might have
seen him at Wandsworth. He came to the
rescue at that terrible times

'^ I saw no one but her then' he said, ina
lower voice. ^' Miss Rivers, do you think
she will forget all that frightful business ? "

' I think she will : at least, her letters are
much less heart-broken than they were. I
think she rather nursed her sorrow at Wandsworth.
Then she took to going to see sick
children and giving away all her money, and
she began to get better."

'' She gave away all her money ? "

*' Every farthing he left her. Yes, she
would not keep even one hundred pounds a
year, nor a hundred pence. She could not
bear touching his money."

^' I am so glad ! " he said, fervently.

Really ? " Grace said, in a curious tone.

Sir Albert coloured, and said,

'rit is pleasant when a character we admire
is consistent."

'' Margaret is very consistent."

"She is everything a high-minded woman
should be," he answered, earnestly; '^I am quite
sure we agree in our ideas of her."

^' Perhaps we do ; but you express it better
than I do : and my sister is too good for me.
I admire her, but she is so far approve me that
there is not full sympathy between us."

'^ But there might be," he said, in his quiet
voice; '^io live with some one having a high
aim must help one."

It does not hel-p me," said Grace, sharply,
but with an accent of pain in her voice ;
throwing off any feeling weighing with her
she added, in a laughing tone, '^ It gives mea
crick in my neck."

She puzzled him. It was painful to him to
see her so delicate and thinking of nothing
but amusement, but he could not judge ; and
through the flippant tone broke so much real
feeling that he knew she spoke much more
lightly than she felt. She was Margaret's
sister, and he would do his utmost for her

amusement. Instead of leaving London as he
had intended doing, he would remain and goto
this ball and to others, and do his utmost to
enable her to enjoy it.

The Duchess's card and the invitation were
handed to Lady Lyons ; and her first idea
was that it was a mistake. Grace interposed.

' It is all right, Lady Lyons ; of course the
Duchess could not ask me without you, and I
know some of her family."

Lady Lyons was most deeply impressed.

'' My dear ! I never was in the same
room with a duchess before; it is very
delightful."

"I do not suppose she is different from
other people." said Grace, indifferently.

^^I hope it is not a case of a new gown — I
really cannot afford it," and Lady Lyons
looked really troubled.

'' As I am dragging you to the party, I will
find the gown," said Grace, laughing ; '' leave
it to me.

This card was not the only one that came

on that and the following days, and Grace was
quite enchanted, though she professed to be
prepared for this, and any thing else that
might befall her.

Lady Lyons was not quite happy. She was
by nature indolent, and she was early fatigued.
Women who assume the habits of
an invalid, soon become invalids in reality.
She loved going to bed at nine o'clock and
being read to sleep ; indeed, with a vague
idea that Grrace intended to make herself
useful to her, she had said something about
the reading, and the peculiarities of her maid's
pronunciation, but Grace was too wise to begin
by doing anything that might be a tax upon
her in future, and she laughed the idea to
scorn — '^ besides," she added, and with truth,
^' with my delicate chest, the exertion would
be very bad for me."

But, as Lady Lyons loved going to bed
early, the prospect of being out of it for an
indefinite number of hours was not amusing
still the thoughts of seeing so many people,

known only through the newspapers, sustained
her.

She gave many sighs, however, in private ;
Grace half thought of persuading her to go to
bed early in the afternoon, but for a well-founded
conviction that, if she did, she would
in all probability not get up again ; but she
did get her to drink strong coffee, and that,
and the sight of her new dress, kept her comfortably
awake.

Grace appeared, radiant, her inexperience
making her punctual. She had a very simple
white gown, and looked well.

When they arrived they found themselves
very nearly the first, and quite the first of the
strangers asked.

Lady Lyons looked about for the great lady
and could not see her. At that moment a
kind little old lady held out her hand — asked
the black and white gentleman doubling himself
in two before her to repeat the names,
and Lady Lyons and Miss Withers was the
result shouted into her Grace's deaf ears.

VOL. III. N

Grace was half annoyed and half amused.
She went to a sofa near, and sat down watching
the arrivals, and being entertained by the talk
going on between a plain clever looking girl,
with a quantity of red hair, and some older
girls, who stood caressing their elbows in the
doorway very affectionately.

The dear Duchess has a funnier mixture
than ever, to-night, apparently," said the
eldest maiden, who had on a crushed looking
dress, and who used an eyeglass very
freely when she neglected her elbows for a
moment.

Yes, dear old thing ! she is so kindhearted,
she never can say no. You cannot
conceive anything so funny as the mob coming
to-night."

^^ What makes her doit?"

'^ Good-nature ; she says people like to come
because she has a big house, and can give
them a good supper, and why should she
not ? " and the girl laughed.

'■' She is rather a trial in some things. You

have no idea how young men fly her. She is
so sorry for plain girls that she marches them
up, whether they like it or not, and introduces
them straight off. I assure you she has carried
off my pet partners under my very eyes, and
made them dance with lamp-posts and billiard-balls."


My dear' whispered Lady Lyons in a
very discreet whisper, '' what does she mean
by that? How can a man dance with ?"

'^ Oh ! do you really not understand ? " said
Grace, impatiently ; '^ tall girls and very short
ones."

'^ Oh ! " and Lady Lyons drew a very long
breath.

No band, no music, and hardly any men.
It was going to be a very queer ball, Grace
thought. An hour and a half passed in
this way. As a rule, people wore gowns
that had seen the brunt of the season —
no one was very smart except as regarded
jewels. A great many people had beautiful
diamonds on, and some had good lace, but

n2

the majority, knowing what a crowd there
would be, had left lace at home.

The band arrived and began playing two or
three bars of well-known valses and then
stopping. Then, all at once, there was a
sudden stream of people, the rooms filled all
at once, and dancing began. But only in a
limited space ; it began all over the large
room, three or four circles beginning at once.

The sound of the music, the sight of others
doing what she would like to do, filled
Grace with despair. She did not know a
soul, and nobody looked at her or noticed her
in any way. Dance after dance went on, and
the girl felt really forlorn— tears of vexation
rose in her eyes and nearly overflowed.

Lady Lyons fidgeted.

^*I think the Duchess might find you a
partner," she said, huffily ; '' and what an
uncomfortable sofa ! I wish for my part that
I was safe at home again.

And Grace very nearly said,

'^ So do I ! "

A funny looking little man, with curiously
small eyes and a big head, passed and re-passed,
looking along the benches, sliding behind the
crowd, which seemed to increase every moment.
As he passed he saw Grace's wistful eyes, and
he went on.

Returning, he was accompanied by a tall
fine looking, middle-aged man ; they approached,
and her heart beat high with hope ;
this little man was some relation, and he had
found her a partner.

Delightful delusion born to be dispelled.
The tall man bowed to Lady Lyons, and then
said,

'^ Her Grace has asked me to introduce Mr.
Bott to you and your niece ; he is anxious to
persuaded to try this valse;''and without
seeing Grace (unless, as she thought angrily, he
could see her without looking at her ) he bowed
himself away again.

Grace's mortification knew no bounds. To
make her first public appearance dancing with
this peculiar looking man was very terrible to

her, but to sit for a whole evening behind the
backs (and very ample backs) of sundry
dowagers, who either preferred standing or
could find no seats to their liking, seemed the
only other alternative, and still more intolerable
to her.

She rose and moved with him, a little surprised
at the way he glided through the dense
crowd, making room for her behind him.

She had been considered at school a perfect
dancer, but dancing well with mankind requires
practice which she had never had, and this
little man danced abominably. He had all
possible defects, and did as nearly as he could
every single thing he ought not to have done.

He could not steer. He had no confidence,
and he got out of nobody's way. Grace's
ears got red and tingled, and her whole face
flushed with wounded vanity.

After two or three struggles, in which they
were ignominiously worsted, she stopped and
gazed at the soft, gliding motion of happier
girls, with a feeling of anger and desperation.

Then coming towards her, she saw a couple
moving with an inexpressibly graceful air, and
recognised Sir Albert Gerald.

Forgetful of everything, but that she saw at
last one face she knew, she stepped forward
and pronounced his name.

Sir Albert laughingly bowed and swung on
without stopping.

Tears rose in her eyes, and, turning to Mr.
Bott, she said —

'^ I do not feel well. Will you take me to
Lady Lyons ? "

He obeyed in silence, so deeply offended
with her for her manner, showed evident want
of appreciation or his dancing, that he
made no effort to persuade her to have some
refreshment instead, and bowing, turned away
immediately.

^^ Let us go home. Lady Lyons; lam so
tired."

^^ And have no supper! I have been longing
to have something to eat. I declare, sitting
on this hard bench and doing penance, makes

one desperately hungry ; and I am here on
your account, my dear."

^^ How can we go to supper without any one
to take us ? "

*ewe can go by ourselves— several people
have done it already — do come."

Just as Grace was complying with her
request, she was stopped by Sir Albert Gerald,
who brought a young man — a very young man
up to Grace, and introduced him.

^^ I am coming to claim a dance soon," he
said ; "I saw you suffering martyrdom with
poor little Bott. It was very good of you to
give him a dance."

^' I could not help myself," said Grace, her
spirits restored immediately by this change in
her prospects of enjoyment ; ^^ he was the only
person introduced to me."

'^ Bott always manages to find a new
victim," said the man introduced by Sir
Albert — a Mr. Powis. ^^ Do you want to have
supper ? Oh ! I see, the old lady does.

Come along, Gerald ; we will have supper
all together' and Lady Lyons was soon as
perfectly happy as she could be while half
dead from want of sleep.

CHAPTER VII.

The appearance of Sir Albert Gerald on the
scene of action had a magical effect upon
Grace. Every trace of fatigue vanished. She
was once again bright, happy, careless, and
full of enjoyment ; once again the music
charmed her, and once again she was glad to
be there.

Supper over. Sir Albert found a more comfortable
seat for Lady Lyons, and introduced
her to a lady sitting there, who eyed her
smart clothes with a little suspicion till the
Duchess addressed a few kind words to her.

when lie discovered immediately that they
had much in common.

Lady Lyons indeed was overflowing with
content to find some one to talk to, after prolonged
silence, in the first place ; and, in the
next, to discover that they had been disappointed
in the same doctor, liked the same
food, and had the same symptoms ; this made
the ball enjoyable indeed, and she did not
care now how long Grace stayed.

In the meantime Grace realised her dreams ;
she floated round the room, though her appearance
was a little marred by the peculiar
position of her head and a certain stiffness in
her action.

'^ You must trust more to me and be a little
less timid," said Mr. Powis, when he, in his
turn, took her round the room ; ^^ one can see
you are out of practice."

Grace did not tell him it was quite her
first ball.

She danced without stopping ; she would
not take it quietly ; she did want this one

ball to be full of happiness, and she was encouraged
by the laughing compliments of
young Powis, who, himself a noted athlete and
in excellent condition, could have danced for
hours, and, to use his own expression, ^*not
turn a hair."

Grace's lips got very white, and Sir Albert
more than once remonstrated with her and
with her partner.

Has Gerald got anything to do with
you?" he asked, with some temper. '^ What
makes him interfere ? "

^^I am sure I don't know," Grace answered
with a ghastly smile ; '' but you see I don't
mind. Let us go on."

'^ What a brick you are ! " he said, as they
once more started. Arrived at the end of the
long room, there was suddenly a great commotion,
and Mr. Powis was shocked to find his
'^ brick " of a partner fall back in a perfectly
dead faint, in the arms of some of those lookers-on
always standing about in a ball-room.

She was quickly carried into a small sitting-room,

where they scattered one or two people
holding interesting conversations there.

There was one chief idea present to everyone,
the Duchess must not be disturbed and
the ball not for a second interrupted.

Grace was very long coming round, and
then she owned herself too ill to stay.

Lady Lyons was found without much difficulty,
and the two left the brilliant scene as
soon as possible.

Young Powis said something about the
catastrophe to Sir Albert, who was annoyed
with him.

'' How could I know she was going to
faint ? " he said ; '^ she seemed all right : she
wanted to go on."

'she has been very ill indeed for months,
and, as I sent her the invitation, I felt bound
to try and prevent her from doing herself
harm."

''Oh, I did not know. She goes well enough,
but she hangs back and makes herself heavy ;
my arm aches enough now. All the same I

am very sorry. I could not think why you
interfered."

If it had not been you it would have been
with somebody else," and Sir Albert sprang
into a hansom and disappeared.

Lady Lyons only knew that Grace was over-fatigued
; she knew nothing of her having
fainted, and Grace herself was quite determined
to say as little as possible. Were there
not several other cards waiting, offering the
same enjoyment ?

In the manner a stupid woman sometimes
has of vexing unintentionally, poor Lady
Lyons contrived to offend her a good deal.

really, my dear, you cannot be grateful
enough to that nice Sir Albert Gerald. But
for him you and I would have had no supper,
no dancing, and a very dull evening ; and he
hunted up a partner for you as well as dancing
with you himself. I assure you he took a lot
of trouble about it,"

Mr. Powis asked to be introduced to me.''*^

^^ Did he, my dear ? Why, what a humbug

he must be ! I heard him myself say to Sir
Albert, ^ I knoio too many girls already ; do
let me off !^^ and Sir Albert said, nonsense
and walked him up to you, and then he pretended
to wish it himself."

'^ At any rate Sir Albert said, ^Mr. Powis
would like to be introduced to you,' " and
Grace was red with anger and mortification.

'' My dear, I think they always say that.
I heard it said so often near me."

Grace was silent. She had thought that
this one man had been attracted by her, forgetting
that in a great crowd there must be
that undeniable something to be at all noticed.

Her next ball was a great mortification to
her. She saw Mr. Powis, he asked her how
she was, hoped she was better, and did not
ask her to dance ; more than this, he expressed
surprise at her coming to a ball again."

I should have thought you would have
funked it. Miss Rivers. I shall feel quite
nervous till I see you going home, you
know."

Grace was furious.

She and poor Lady Lyons sat on unnoticed.
They went away when they were tired and
crept into the supper-room.

All the servants of the establishment were
drawn up in a phalanx in the hall in splendid
liveries, and the supper — done by contract —
was very bad, and the waiters worse. They
sat very forlorn, getting no attention, and
retreated, nearly worn out, and having the
greatest difficulty in getting their carriage,
none of the liveries choosing to face a drizzling
rain and call it up. After standing very long
in a terrible draught, some one asked the name,
and ^^Lady Lyons's carriage, no servant!" was
shouted up and down the street.

Grace burst out laughing, but Lady Lyons,
who saw nothing funny in any part of the
evening's entertainment, subsided in a heap
in the corner of the brougham and wept.

In spite of this, Grace persisted in going to
the few things offered her.

'' I cannot understand your caring for going

out ; you never meet a soul you know.
Why do you go ? '' cried poor Lady Lyons
at last.

*^ I go because it is so good for me — and
for you too."

'• So good for you ! So good for me ! "

Yes, it is a sort of penance for you, sitting
there and not amusing yourself ; and, as for
me'' said Grrace, lightly, ^^ after this I can
never set too high a value on myself ! It is
mortification all round."

^' You say the oddest things."

''I am glad I am original; and now. Lady
Lyons, I want to arrange some business, and
when that is done I want to go to Scotland,
but I must finish my business first."

^'How long will it take?" asked Lady
Lyons.

I cannot tell. I want to make my will."

'' My dear ! "

^' Is that another original idea ? People
have done such a thing before. Why do you
particularly want to know about the time,

VOL. III. o

Lady Lyons ? You very clever people always
have a motive in asking anything."

'^ It is about the rooms, my dear, and it is
about my son," and Lady Lyons looked at
Grace to see whether this mention of her son's
name had any interest for her.

Grace hardly heard her. She was conscious
herself of being very much worse in health
than she had been when she arrived in
London. It was true she had met many
mortifications, but she did not care much
about them. She had seen something of that
whirl she had longed to be in, though she was
conscious she had only been at the edge and
looking on from a distance. The disenchantment,
however, was complete ; she saw that,
unless living and moving amongst people and
having them as friends, there was no pleasure
in going to any place, however brilliant ; and
she was struck with the higher tone of many
of the people she met, who did not live only
for pleasure, but who took interest in other
things, and who accepted '^ excitement " as an

interruption, even if a pleasant interruption, to
their usual pursuits, and did not make it their
business. She grew ashamed of the frivolous
aims and small ambitions she had, and, though
she did not own it to herself, she wished she
was more like Margaret.

Sir Albert called one day to say good-bye.
He was going abroad. He wanted very much
to say something to Grace, but he wanted to
speak to her alone, and Lady Lyons was always
there.

That good woman's way of thanking him
for the trouble he had taken to promote their
amusement was very amusing.

^' Yes, indeed. Sir Albert, but for you, as I
always say to Miss Rivers, no supper, no
partners, a hard bench and a crowd. Oh,
dear ! I shall never forget it, never ! Then
you came, and that supper, and the Duchess
was civil, and I had a pleasant conversation,
and all was different."

^^ I am very glad I was able to be of use.
The Duchess is always kind."

o2

Yes, she is very kind — though I bowed to
her yesterday and she did not know me ;
perhaps, as I had a very thick veil on she
could not see me," Lady Lyons added reflectively.


'^ Perhaps not."

^^ There is only one thing, Sir Albert, if
you don't mind my saying it — I was so surprised
to see her so plain."

'' So plain ! We think, in the family, that
my aunt, for her age, is very good-looking ;
she has such a pleasant face."

'soh! I don't mean plain in the sense of
ugly," Lady Lyons said, in a great hurry,
^^but plain in her dress. She had no jewels
on, not even a diamond ring, for I looked to
see when she took off her gloves at supper."

'^ Some people think that the hostess ought
to be unadorned. I rather like the sentiment."


^' I don't the least understand it," said Lady
Lyons, bluntly; ^'when I used to have company
I put on my smartest gown."

^^I suppose the Duchess has no smartest
gowns," he answered laughing.

'now that's nonsense, Sir Albert. But I
should like to know the 'sentiment,' as you
call it, though, for my own part, I cannot
see an}^ connection between sentiment and
clothes."

'^I do," said Grace ; '4f I am in a very
good temper I can wear blue or white with
a quiet conscience ; if I am in a rage I wear
red."

'^ My dear Miss Rivers! You do say such
funny things."

I shall then avoid speaking to you if I see
you in a red gown," laughed Sir Albert.

^' You had better but please enlighten

Lady Lyons, she is dying to know why one's
best' gowns should not be aired on grand
occasions."

^^I fancy the idea is that it is better taste
not to outshine one's guests," Sir Albert said ;
"the Duchess has such magnificent jewels that
it would be easy to outdo every one else."

'that is rather a delicate nice feeling' said
Grace, warmly.

'but I would rather wear my jewels, if I
had any," said Lady Lyons. " Sir Albert, did
you notice my butterfly the other night? Nohow
strange ! Well, never mind ! I will go
and get it for you, it has a history."

She left the room, and Sir Albert seized
his opportunity. '' Miss Rivers," he began,
hurriedly, 'you have some idea, have you not,
of what your sister is to me ? "

^^ I think I have' said Grace demurely.

*^ Will you do me a very great kindness ? ''
he said, earnestly. '' Will you send me a line
now and again ? All that dreadful time
the only plan, for her sake, was to keep
away."

"I suppose it was," said Grace; ^^ it must
have been difficult."

^' It has been very difficult."

'' And when I send you this line, ^ now and
again am I tp say anything to her ? "

'^ I see no reason you should not let her

know you are so kind as to write to me," he
answered.

^' Nor do I. I only wanted to know."

^^ If at any time you think she would care
to see me — if I could ever be of use — you
will let me know ? "

'^ I will. Not that sending a letter to
Norway or Finland, let alone the Antipodes,
holds out much prospect of your being able to
come within a reasonable time," she added,
laughing.

'^ Distance sounds more than it is'' he
answered, composedly, ^^ and I may not go
quite so far as the Antipodes."

'^ Or Norway ? " she said, mischievously.

He coloured visibly.

^' Miss Rivers, I mean to put the sea
between us, till ."

^' Till she has forgotten, in some measure,"
said Grace, kindly. ^^I think you are right ;
because, just now, everything is so terrible to
her. She might think happiness in connection
with you quite out of the question ; and if you

came forward just now she might put herself
into a position from which it might be difficult
for her to draw back. I think you must wait
till she has quite recovered, and then she may
become conscious of a great blank in her life,
and wish for you."

'^ God grant it may be so ! " he said,
fervently.

'' Do you mind telling me how it was it all
went wrong at Lornbay ? I thought you cared
for her then''

'* Cared for her ! It was a terrible misunderstanding.
I never can forgive myself for
having said something — put something in a
stupid way. It does not bear thinking about.
You have no conception what a trial that has
been to bear. It has added to everything else."

sewell, before my lady and her butterfly
comes, hear me promise to do what little I can
in the matter, Sir Albert. Let us swear an
eternal friendship ! "

She held out her hand as Lady Lyons came
into the room, and he gave her a grateful

pressure. Lady Lyons coughed loudly, as
much as to say — '^ I am here."

^VNow, Sir Albert," said Grace, gaily,
^' Lady Lyons is quite shocked; you really
must not make love to me under her very
eyes."

Poor Lady Lyons felt dreadfully taken
aback. Sir Albert, however, was so kind
about her jewel, and, taking it to the light,
gave it such real attention, that she was soon
thinking of her butterfly more than of anything
else.

When he had gone, however, the little scene
recurred to her, and she began talking about
him.

She was just sufficiently afraid of Grace to
begin the conversation as far from the subject
as possible, and, without losing sight of what
she wanted to know, she began talking of Mrs.
Dorriman, and of the days of her youth, when
she had been a neglected girl of sixteen as
Anne Sandford.

'^Do you know, my dear, that in those

days people used to think she was an heiress.
Nobody knew anything at all about the
brother, and it was such a surprise when he
appeared. No one knew anything about his
mother, and no one, I believe — none of his
most intimate friends — knew of his father's
first marriage."

'' A disagreeable surprise for Mrs. Dorian."


'' Yes ! and how good she is always ;
never a murmur, and it is very hard for her.
First of all, her father made no will ; then her
husband muddled away all his money ! Poor
dear woman ! Now, can any one say truthfully
that she has had a happy life ? " And
Lady Lyons looked round the room, appealing,
as it were, to an invisible audience,
only at last looking at Grace.

^^ It is quite impossible that any one should
be happy without independence," answered
Grace. '^ It is a most galling thing to owe all,
or nearly all, to some one who is nothing to
one. I speak feelingly. Lady Lyons. Mr.

Sandford, out of affection for his wife (who, as
you know, was my aunt), offered us a home
and added to our income at school. But he
made the obligation hateful to us by the way
he went on. His temper is absolutely unbearable.
I cannot tell you how terrible the
scenes were. No one — no girl with any
sense of self-respect — could put up with ito
one ! "

'^ My dear! this is very, very sad''
^^ It is more than sad. This is the history
of my poor darling Margaret's marriage. I
was so utterly wretched, so perfectly miserable,
that she married Mr. Drayton (all her
instincts being against him) to save me from a
life I hated. I urged her to do it ; but. Lady
Lyons, I was very ill ; if I had only been well
if only I had not felt so much in want of all
the comfort and care I could get —I am sure I
never would have allowed her to sacrifice herself
so terribly."

She stopped, exhausted, and covered her face
with her hands.

'' My dear ! my dear ! " said Lady Lyons,
feebly patting her on the arm. ^^ For my sake
do not excite yourself so much. I am so very
sorry I brought this forward — but I don't
think I did either."

*^ It does not matter whether you did or not,
it is always here — no, not always'' said
Grace, with a bitter little laugh, ^' because I
am not a girl who makes herself miserable
about what cannot be helped, but when I am

driven into thought Oh ! Lady Lyons, do

you know what it is? Did you ever, in all
your life, have remorse ? "

^^Oh, yes! " said Lady Lyons, very placidly,
' when I lost my husband I wished I had not
been so cross to him. But he was trying, my
dear — very trying. However, I was sorry I
was snappish to him sometimes. It quite
weighed upon me when he died''

Grace laughed again, and Lady Lyons
looked at her curiously. What had she said
that was so funny ? She began to talk again,
this time a little spitefully.

^^ I suppose you will be glad if your sister
marries again ? '^

'^ Of course, I shall be glad for her to do
whatever is for her happiness ; but marrying
again, Lady Lyons, does it not seem a little
hard that she should have so many chances
and I . . . . have none ? "

^^ My dear, if I am not very much mistaken,
Sir Albert Gerald is very much in loire."

'' Yes, I think he is very much in love''
Grace answered indifferently.

'^ Then let us hope it will all come right."

^^ I hope it will," and before Lady
Lyons could go on with her investigations a
servant came to ask if Grace would see Mr.
Stevens.

^^ Certainly." Grace was enchanted to see
any one ; and Lady Lyons, who did not
care for Mr. Stevens, carefully gathered her
patchwork together and left the room.

'^ Well, Mr. Stevens, you see me on the
very verge of departure," exclaimed Grace ;
^^I am really going far from this gay and

festive scene, and intend recruiting my shattered
nerves in Highland air.

Mr. Stevens looked at her gravely. He was
deeply shocked by her appearance. She looked
so fragile, and her lips were so absolutely
without colour.

^^ I hope the Highland air will set you up,"
he said; ^^ you look as if you have not had
sleep for an indefinite times

'^No, sleep I do not sleep well." There
was something almost pathetic in her tone.
He had seen her pretty often now, but he
had always seen her full of high spirits,
bandying words ; he thought her more interesting,
and he said very kindly, ^' Change
of air does much for every one, and it will do
you good seeing your sister."

^^ How is she ? " Grace felt softened by his
tone.

"A different person since she went there.
I went up there for a few days. ." A
curious hesitation in his manner struck her.

'^ I shall like being with my sister. I shall

very much dislike being with some one else,"
Grace said, with a bitterness of tone he could
not help noticing.

'' Not— Mrs. Dorriman ? "

^' Not — Mrs. Dorriman!" she rejoined,
imitating the little pause he had made, and
looking at him with laughing eyes.

Mr. Stevens got up and looked out of the
window. Grace called him back. ^^ Did you
come to see how I was ? I do not look very
robust, but I intend to get well up in the
North."

'^ I hope you will."

'^ But you are afraid ? Mr. Stevens, your
face is nearly as good as a looking-glass. I
see exactly how I look by the expression of
your eyebrows. When you come into the
room they are tidy and straight ; if I look
well they arch up into a sort of surprised state,
as much as to say ^ That girl is a riddle to me,
she is actually better, who would have thought
it? ' When I look very ill, as I suppose I look
to-day, they go down in a melancholy line

and say as plainly as possible, ' Poor thing !
she is going down-hill very fast.' "

*^ Miss Rivers, I am sorry my eyebrows
should be so very inconveniently expressive,"
he said, trying to laugh, and feeling absolutely
heartsick; she seemed to him frightfully ill,
and so utterly devoid of anything like serious
thought.

You need not be sorry," she said, in an
odd tone ; " we none of us know anything of
each other, and I daresay I judge you quite
as hardly as you do me."

'' Hardly ! Do I judge you hardly ? "

^' You think I am so fearfully frivolous and

thoughtless and I cannot at this moment

think of any other words."

'^ I know your sister best. She is not
thoughtless : and may I say to you. Miss
Rivers, that the more I know her the more
thunderstruck I am at her ever having married
poor Drayton ? "

^^ You knew him better than any of us."

'^ Yes, ever since his boyhood. He had

no chance. His father and mother were
cousins, and insanity in the family. It was
terrible to me to hear of his marriage."

Grace shivered.

*' You do not like Mr. Sandford. I remember
hearing this. I cannot bear him."

He is in very bad health now."

'^ That does not alter things a bit. When
I think of all his rudeness and violence
and he always looks to me as though he had
some great sin lying on his conscience."

Grace watched Mr. Stevens very narrowly,
and she saw him give a little start.

He turned the subject at once.

^' I came to pay something over to you,
Miss Rivers — will you give me a receipt ? "

It was a large cheque — the interest on the
fifteen thousand pounds from the date of her
sister's marriage.

"• Mrs. Drayton refused this — the legacy
duty is deducted and an account inclosed."

Grace examined it all quietly. Then she
drew a blotting book near her. She signed

VOLe III. p

a receipt and inclosed the cheque to her
bankers — rang, and desired the letter to be sent
by hand.

Mr. Stevens watched her narrowly ; how
curiously unlike Mrs. Drayton she was, and
yet something — that indescribable and subtle
resemblance which comes out in tricks of
manner more than in feature — would have
caused Grace to be known any where as
Margaret's sister. He began to describe
Inchbrae to her, but she stopped him hurriedly.


Pray do hot begin about it for I know it
by heart — Margaret writes about nothing else,
and, as for Mrs. Dorriman, 1 do not know
whether she or Jean talk most about it. Clear
crystal sea — soft shadows on the mountains,
sometimes clouds (always clouds I should say!)
sharp crags, fir-trees beautiful with red
stems, beautiful without, waterfall, rowan-trees,
scarlet geraniums, and a grey house.
There, do I know my lesson, or do I not ?
The idea of your beginning too ! "

Mr. Stevens went off into a fit of laughter,
and he was one of the men who laughed with
merriment, so many are noisy and not merry.
In the midst of this hilarity in walked a
tall young man announcing himself, with an
injured waiter in the background waving
deprecating hands.

It was Paul Lyons.

^^ Come and laugh too, Mr, Lyons," said
Grace, as she shook hands with him. ^^ Should
you be surprised to hear that Mr. Stevens (by
the way, let me introduce you. Mr. Stevens,
Mr. Lyons, the same to the same). Yes, Mr.
Stevens is laughing at an excellent, undeniable
joke made by me."

Paul Lyons seemed older and more careworn
than when she had last seen him. He looked
at her with so grave an expression that she
was startled. The laughter died away upon
her lips, and she was silent.

'' You have been ill ? "

He spoke with very real feeling, and she,
though she tried to answer him lightly, the

p2

effort was a failure. At length she said
shortly —

^^I have been ill, and your mother kind.
My face speaks for itself, I suppose."

"Yes," answered Paul, ^^you are looking
far from well. But you are better ? You are
going away ? "

^' Who told you this important fact? "

^^My mother. I came home sooner. I
wanted to see you before you went away."

Mr. Stevens had not very quick perceptions,
but when Paul Lyons made this speech it
dawned upon him that he was perhaps in the
way.

He rose, and, renewing his offers of service,
left the room, with an overpowering amount of
thanks from Grace.

'^ Tell me about your illness, now that man
has gone. Have you been seriously ill— as ill
as my mother thinks ? ''

How can I possibly tell what your mother
thinks?"

^^Oh, Grace! do not trifle just now! I

have known for a very long time that my
whole happiness is bomid up in you ! "

'^ Margaret is free, remember."

^'What does that matter? Why remind
me that I once liked her best? Is a man
never to change ? I know now — I have long
known it — if I could but get you to believe it !
that Margaret was a sort of dream of my
youth. I shall always reverence her, but she
is too far beyond me. She is like some pure
cold saint, and I do love you, Grace ! "

But I have no wealth to endow you with,"
said Grace, looking at him earnestly, '^ only a
very few hundreds a year."

She watched him a little anxiously, but his
face showed it did not matter.

^^ I am poor enough," he said, '^ but you
shall never want anything if you will only
give me the right of taking care of you. I
have succeeded in getting an appointment in
Italy. I am sure that climate will suit you ;
the doctors said so."

'' And you got the appointment without

knowing that I would say yes," exclaimed
Grace, a good deal in lier old manner,

'' If you say no, all places will be alike tome."


*^ Oh, Paul! shall I tell you something? I
do love you, but I have a great deal to say to
you before I say yes or no."

'^ Say anything now, and put me out of
suspense."

'^ I believe I shall live ; I am not very
strong ; but I am stronger than people think ;
and Paul, if I do say yes— if I am your wife
I am afraid you will have a very sorry
bargain. I am not a very amiable girl, and I
am capricious. Do you know what I am
afraid of ? T am always so afraid of getting
tired of my husband."

^' Grace, please don't talk like this. I also
have many faults; you do not think I am
perfect, do you ? We must make allowances
for each other."

'^ I certainly do not think you perfect," said
Grace, laughing a little, ^' but I do think you

should reflect. Just think, Paul : a delicate
wife, full of whims, not very attractive."

'' Grace, you will drive me crazy if you goon
in this way. I love you, dear, with all
your whims, and all else, and you will get
strong and well in Italy. Say plainly, and at
once, that you will marry me."

Well then, plainly and at once, I will,
Paul. I am not quite sure that the reason
I care for you is not that you are the only
man who has ever wished to marry me, but
I will only marry you on one conditions'

^^ On any condition, darling."

^' I want to be married at once. I have
heaps of new clothes ; and I do not want to goto
Scotland and confront old Sandford without
some one to fight my battles."

Paul was surprised to find his mother
pleased about his marriage.

'^ I was afraid you wanted me to marry a
rich wife," he said, his satisfaction unbounded
at the evident pleasure with which she
received his news.

'^ I did, Paul, yes ; but Grace has something."


Not much I am afraid — but I have this
appointment, mother, and we shall get on all
right."

^^ I suppose it is not much ; did she tell you
what it was?"

'^A few hundreds."

^^ A year. She has six or seven hundred a
year."

'^ Oh ! " said Paul, ^' I am glad, mother, of
course. I am also glad I did not know anything
about it."

^* Would it have made a difference ? "

'*' I cannot say," he answered.

CHAPTER VIII.

Lady Lyons was in a great state of excitement
about Grace's wedding. She had large ideas
as to what was the right thing to do ; and she
never for one moment thought that upon an
occasion of this kind Grace would be wilful or
obstinate. That she was peculiar she knew ;
but she had no idea she would indulge in
peculiar ideas about a wedding, and that
wedding her own.

Grace would have no wedding-cake, no
breakfast (in that sense), and no fuss, no
bridesmaids. It was to be by special licence,
and quiet as quiet could be.

*' But why, my dear ? "

'^ Because there is no one to ask."

'^ We have plenty of acquaintances. I
know many people, and it is unusual to have a
wedding in a corner this way."

'^ 1 don't know about a corner — I am to be
married in church."

'' You know what I mean, Grace ; and it is
my only son."

^* I am sorry you have not got more sons, if
you wish it. Lady Lyons''

Then suddenly she knelt down beside her
and said earnestly —

'' Usually there are friends to rejoice; there
is a mother or sisters, a father — some one who
cares for a girl. They gather round her at an
important moment of her life; but, Lady
Lyons, in all the world there does not exist a
more forlorn girl than I am. It would be
mockery to summon acquaintances and call
them friends. What do they know about me
or about your son ? I have thought, till I am
tired of thinking, who there is to give iHe

away. I can think of no one— I shall have to
borrow a father for the occasion ; and I cannot
think where I shall find one."

^'My dear Grace, you do say such odd
things ! "

^^ Do I ? I am speaking the truth, perhaps
that seems odd."

'^ I do not feel as if it would be a wedding
at all."

^'I hope it will be a wedding, though there
are to be no guests ; and, without guests to
eat it, why have a wedding-cake ?"

*^ To send some away, and the look of
the thing. You don't seem to think of
that."

"Who is to look? There is to be no one.
I do not care for wedding-cake myself, though
I love the almond-paste, and, if you eat some,
you would be ill for weeks''

Lady Lyons was not to be consoled. She
told Sir Albert (who was still detained in
town), and he tried to sympathise with her.
Then he spoke to Grace —

'^ If people came, not here, but to the church
you would not mid it ? "

*^ How can I prevent people from going to
church?"

'' And who is to give you away ? "

^^ I do not know; I have told Lady Lyons
I intend borrowing a father for the occasion''

^' How would Sir Jacob do ? "

They have never been near us, though
they made such a fuss about us. Of course, it
is not his fault — still T will not ask him."

'' It would be kinder to think of some one,
and so please Lady Lyons."

'' But, kind or not kind, I cannot think of
any one."

^' There is some one I know; he is very
kind, and it would be pleasant for you."

'^ It would be much better if I knew someone.
I think girls are to be envied who have
relations and friends ; I have none."

'^ If I find some one will you be nice about
it?"

^^ I will be very nice : as nice as I know to

be. Lady Lyons would like some one a little
before the world. She thinks Paul's wedding
a very important thing."

^' If I can I will arrange about it. I was
so provoked about not getting away, now I
am glad."

'^ Yes, I am Margaret's sister''

'^ You say she is not coming ? "

^* She offered and 1 declined. Where was
the use of a long journey ? I am going north
afterwards."

'' And you are to write to me ? "

'' If Paul is not jealous," and she laughed.

Then he said good-bye.

That evening Lady Lyons sat worrying herself
a good deal about everything in general,
and this impending difficulty in particular,
when a note to Grace was brought in. It was
from the Duchess.
Dear Miss Rivers,

'' My nephew says that, owing to your sister's
absence, you would like to be befriended a
little on your wedding-day. The Duke begs

me to say that he will give you away with pleasure,
and, as Lady Lyons is the young man's
mother, I will call and take you to church.

'' How wise you are to have no bridesmaids
or breakfast. I wish other girls were as sensible.
Believe me, dear Miss Rivers,
'^ Yours truly,

Katherine Wellington''

Grace gave the note to Lady Lyons without
comment.

'^ Her Grace's servant waits to see if there
is any answer," said the waiter, very respectfully.


Grace wrote,
'' Dear Duchess of Wellington,

^^You are very kind, and I beg to thank
you and the Duke very much. Yes, I shall
be very grateful to you for so befriending me ; it
is good of you, who know me so little ; of
course it is also good of your nephew.

Yours truly,

^^ Grace Rivers."

'' My dear Grace, now all is most delightfully

arranged," said Lady Lyons; '^ now it
will not be in a corner."

'^ The place is not changed," said Grace. '^ I
told you before I did not mean a corner."

^' You do take everything so much as a
matter of course," said Lady Lyons, irritably.

show ought I to take things? Ought I
to laugh or cry ? Tell me what is the proper
thing to do ? "

^' You might be a little pleased''

I am very much pleased. I think the
Duchess is very kind."

^' She must have taken a fancy to you, my
dear''

*' I think not. I suspect she does not know
me by sight."

^' Then why do this? What do you think
yourself ? "

^' I think it is all for Margaret."

*rand she has never seen her! My dear,
you really are too ridiculous !

*'No, Lady Lyons; can you not see how
things really are V Sir Albert knew how you

lamented my want of friends and he has done
this for me."

But why, my dear, why ? That's what I
want to know," and Lady Lyons looked
puzzled.

"Ah, that is very puzzling indeed," said
Grace, gravely: and Lady Lyons, who had
from the first stated that she thought she had
a gown that was quite good enough, went to
consult her maid upon the subject.

She found her maid in a state of ecstacy
over a very handsome dark, plum-coloured
silk, very fashionably though quietly made,
bonnet and mantle to match, "With Grace's
love " on the top of it.

Oh, my dear, how lovely ! I am so sorry
I said that about a corner. Corner, indeed !
how kind, how very thoughtful of you ! I
cannot bear taking such a handsome present
from you."

"You must learn to take many presents
from your new daughter," said Grace, but
something in her tone struck Lady Lyons.

You have been crying' she exclaimed ;
what is it, my dear ? what has happened ? "

Nothing has happened, but I have a letter
from Margaret, a most dear letter, and I could
not help contrasting my marriage with hers,
for I love Paul, Lady Lyons, and all is differently


'' Very different," said Lady Lyons, and
she sighed sympathetically ; ^' and Mr. Drayton
had no position, my dear ; he was only
a manufacturer."

'' Oh, Lady Lyons, how absurd you are ! ''
said Grace, the tears still standing in her eyes,
though she laughed heartily ; ^' fancy, in these
days, talking like that ! Why, all our leading
spirits in Parliament and out of it are ' only '
manufacturers ; they have the ball at their
feet now."

^' My dear, you have a way of putting
things I never can follow," said poor Lady
Lyons ; *^ now you are talking about a ball,
it is really very puzzling."

'^ Well then, I beg your pardon over and

VOL. III. Q

over and over again," said Grace, ^' and I will
try not to say puzzling things'*

*' thank you, my dear," said Lady Lyons,
very heartily, who considered this a great
concession.

^* Now I am to be your daughter," said the
girl, with the natural wish of having a little
affection and kindness shown to her just now,
'^ you will try and like me — love me a little
bit." She looked wistfully at Lady Lyons, who
was touched and quite melted by this appeal.

^* I suppose," she said very naively to Grace,
who had turned round to leave the room, 'Hhat
I also have things about me, peculiarities that
require indulgence."

^' You are very good," said Grace, evading
the question, '* and I mean to be a good wife
to Paul, you believe that ? "

Oh, yes, my dear, indeed, you put that
very prettily ; I used to wish it was Margaret,
but now I think you will like to know, that I
am quite quite reconciled — then there is the
Duchess and my new dress ! "

Grace laughed a little and left her.

She locked her door and once again read
Margaret's affectionate, earnest letter.

After discussing the news of her marriage
she said,

Now, Grace, my darling, I want you to
think, think more prayerfully than I did, about
this. If you do not love Paul Lyons, do not
mind the disagreeable speeches that may be
made, but do not go on with it. Far better to
bear angry words now than to marry without
love. I would come to you, darling, at a moment's
notice, and I could make a home for you somewhere,
only do not do this. Had I had so
solemn a warning I might have been saved."

There was more to the same point ; each
word, every line, showed by its intensity what
an agony of pain, and shame, and misery she
had herself gone through.

Hot tears fell on Grace's hands as she read
the letter, and she threw herself upon her
knees.

^' Why should she suffer and not I?" she
Q2

cried, ^'and I am looking forward to happiness.
Then she prayed long and fervently,
not for happiness and blessings but for forgiveness
! "

'^ I shall only be really happy when 1 know
she has forgotten," she said to herself, and she
knew that this meant when Sir Albert Gerald
had won her sister.

The sun shone brightly on Grace's wedding-day.
She was quiet and composed. When
Lady Lyons praised her for her demeanour she
said gravely,

'^ I am losing nothing, leaving no one, and
I am gaining much."

The Duchess kissed her, and Lady Lyons
moved forward a little. She had a vague idea
she might be equally honoured, but was disappointed
; however, there was the register
signed by the Duke and Duchess, that would
go down to posterity in connection with her
son, and that was always a great deal.

As the small party left the church, they
were met by Lady Penryn.

^^ Oh, you naughty girl ! '' she said, playfully.
'' You nice thing ! where have you
been all this time ? Does she not look sweet ? ''
appealing to the Duchess, who, passing on,
took no notice of her.

She met with a cold reception from even
Lady Lyons ; but she was not to be daunted ;
laying a detaining hand on Grace's arm she
said—

^^ The right thing for friends to know each
other ; the Duchess, my dear, introduce me."

'' Let me introduce Mr. Lyons," said Grace,
with much composure, and passed on to the
carriage with Paul.

The discomfited lady received no comfort
from her husband.

If I had only known she was that sort of
girl," she said, bitterly ; ^^ I always thought she
was a nobody, and the Duchess gave her away ! "

^' Her father was most kind to my poor boy.
I know nothing of his people, but he was a
thorough gentleman. I never could understand
why you would never take the slightest notice of

the girl. However the thing's done now and
cannot be mended."

He did not tell his wife that he had sent
Grace a magnificent bracelet, and a kind and
fatherly letter, offering to be of use to her.

She understood though he said nothing about
his wife ; and, avoiding all mention of Lady Pen-bryn,
she thanked him warmly, and told him
about the Duchess and her kindness. Paul Lyons
took his wife to Scotland, and to Inchbrae.

Grace saw for herself the clearness of the
sea, the beauty of colouring — all the fitful charm
which makes the Highlands so very lovely and
so dear to its people.

^' I think I know why you care for me," she
said to Paul one day when they had been fora
ramble, she on pony-back and he on foot
beside her. ^^ I understand, since I came here,
how delightful it is never to know what to expect.
I look out of my window in the morning
and I see sunshine and blue sky, and a sea in
which a thousand delicate colours melt and
blend. Half-an-hour afterwards there are

clouds, but all is still, light and the sun seem
behind, and anxious to peep out again. Next
comes darkness, the blue turns to indigo, the
sea becomes grey and sullen. All is changed,
and so it is ever new, and no one can ever be
tired of it. Now, Paul, that is what I conceive
to be my charm in your eyes ; I am never quite
the same, and therefore I hope you will never
be tired of me ! "

Margaret was in far better spirits, and looking
so much more her old self, that Grace was
happier about her ; but not quite happy, she
said to Paul,

'' Till something happens which will happen

*^ And till that happens (which I know
nothing about) I am to ask no questions ? "

^' You ma}'- ask hundreds — I shall answer
none. Do you know, Paul, one thing in connection
with our marriage weighed terribly on
my mind, shall I tell you that ? "

^^ Pray do, darling, unless it is something
very uncomplimentary."

'^ I used to wonder what two pcojilc, bound
to live together always, could ever find to talk
about. I was so afraid I should find your conversation
monotonous, and that I should not
be able to rise to the occasion''

'^ I may tell you that long ago — before I
knew you — I often wondered what married
people could find to talk about all their lives ;
since I knew you I have only thought how
delightful it would be to have you to talk to,
all mine," said Paul simply.

Tears came into her eyes. ^'You are
very good to me," she said ; and then lily
went in.

To Mrs. Dorriman, Grace was '^ as nice as
she could be," and the quartet were happy
together, but the consequence of the old days
left their trace in a certain constraint. Had
Grace remained ill and lonely the kind little
woman's heart would have gone out to her
more, but she thought (as we often do think)
that there was a certain injustice in Grace's
being so happy, while Margaret, all for her

(because of her impatient temper and other
faults) was left to feel bitterly the consequences
of a great mistake, entered into
entirely from a false conception of what she
owed her sister.

Margaret was forgetting, but there were
many terrible moments to her. It is one of
the many instances of that compensation which
is the rule in life, in spite of all assertions to
the contrary, that with a great gift— the great
gift of poetry and imagination — comes often
morbidness.

The high-strung note is oftener the one
that goes most out of tune; and the very
vividness and gracefulness of fancy — that combination
that makes a poet live in a world of
his own — has often its darker side.

Margaret still, at times, lived through the
old terrors, still fancied her child's voice
called her. She was silent about these things.
Every pang she suffered would be a remembrance
to Grace. Grace, who was so
softened and yet so bright, and who seemed

to her to be so completely now the sister she
had at one time imagined her to be.

Mrs. Macfarlane was always a friend they
were glad to see, but it was Grace who spoke
with satisfaction of their having no society,
and perhaps nothing more thoroughly convinced
Mrs. Dorriman how completely she
was altered. They were not to stay long,
those two ; Paul had not very long leave of
absence and wanted to get his wife south.
Before they left, one day, Mrs. Dorriman, who
had always that feeling about Margaret and
the injustice of her suffering for Grace's fault,
did want to say one word. She thought it was
right, and she was resolved to do it.

*^I am very glad you are happy, Grace," she
began, the day before their departure.

*^ Thank you, auntie ; you are very good to
say so ; I am very happy."

^* It seems strange ; of course we all know
that whatever is, is right, but does it not seem
strange that poor Margaret ?"

'^ What is strange about poor Margaret ? "

^^ That you should be happy and that she
should so suffer."

'eyes, every thing is strange in this world,"
Grace answered ; ^^ at least we think so."

'^ I am sure, sometimes, you must feel it all
very much, though you look as though care
and trouble had never touched you."

^^Do you count that to me as a crime?"
Grace asked in a peculiar tone.

'' I sometimes wonder if you ever blame
yourself." Mrs. Dorriman's tone was, for her,
severe.

^' I suppose we all do at times."

'' Well, it seems hard''

^' That we should blame ourselves ? "

'* You know I do not mean that "

^^ No," answered Grace very slowly, and
looking at lier with a sort of surprise in her
face; ^'I know what all this means; you
beat about the bush very badly, Mrs. Dorian."


"Now I have offended you since you call me
Mrs. Dorriman."

'you have offended me," said Grace, vehemently,
'because you give me credit for
being utterly heartless and cruel, and wanting
in affection ; you think that, because I am
happy now, I have forgotten. I have forgotten
nothing ! I do blame myself ! I know
as well as you can tell me that my selfishness
and impatience and everything else made
Margaret wretched ! Up till lately I was
very very unhappy, and all her sufferings
weighed upon me terribly, but now that I see
happiness for her looming in the distance I do
allow myself to be happy. It was not till I
saw that quite clearly that I consented to
marry Paul and to be happy myself ! "

'^ Happiness for Margaret! I see nothing
before her but the perpetual grief for her
child."

'^ I see something more. She will always
regret her child, but, though there is so much
bitterness mixed up with the recollection of its
death, she will learn to think more happily
even about its loss. Has it never struck you

that, had it lived, there must have been a
horrible anxiety about it."

'^ She will never see it in that light."

You are wrong, for last night I saw her
reading something, and I saw it moved her
strangely." Grace's own voice faltered for a
moment ; recovering herself quickly she said,
'^ It was about the short-sightedness of mourning
a loss too deeply and not reflecting that
it was a veiled mercy, as it was often taken
from the evil to come. We talked about it
afterwards at night, and I know her thoughts,
auntie, now."

'' I hope you may be right," said Mrs.
Dorriman, and let the conversation drop.

Grace thought she should never forget the
night before, when she and Margaret had
stood together in something of their old
fashion. It had been wonderfully calm and
still ; the moon, so bright that they might
have read by its light, was shining down
upon the sea, turning its rippling surface to
silver ; the soft light, which yet makes such

sharp, dark shadows, was on the hills. Every
now and again came the curious little grumbling
sound from below, where the waves
lapped and splashed quietly against the rocks.
These waves seemed held by a restraining
hand, they were so quiet A night-hawk
gave its weird cry, and some owls hooted;
the trees seemed to have nothing to say, their
usual rustle was, for the time, stilled. The
sisters, in their different ways, felt the great
beauty of it all. Margaret had drawn closer
to Grace, and the latter gave an affectionate
caress. These nights touched a responsive
chord in Margaret, that wonderful sympathy
that exists between a poet and nature filled
her heart to overflowing; and Grace, softened
by the affection of her husband, a happier
future to look forward to, was sufficiently
enthusiastic to draw her out a little.

She began to talk of heaven and of her
child.

'^ On such a night, Grace, there is undescribable

peace, and yet these influences pass
away and regrets press upon one."

^' That is natural'' said Grace, softly; ^^but
T do sometimes feel that, in thinking of a little
child, regrets must be softened to one. To
leave the world before it has been tempted,
before it has sinned, with the future in this
world, the trials all unknown ; you do not
know, darling, what it may have been saved."

^' You do not know how often that thought
comforts me," said Margaret, very earnestly ;
^^ if it had lived there might have been perpetual
dread of an hereditary curse. No,
what troubles me now, in my sad moments, in
those darker moods that I sometimes have to
fight against, is my own self-reproach."

^^ And my own dear Margaret, if you suffer
from self-reproach what must I do ? " asked
Grace, with the sincerest sorrow.

'' Not about my marriage, Grace ; wrong
as it was, it brought its own retribution : but
I reproach myself bitterly now for not having
struggled against the position I was put into.

Looking back now I cannot help seeing that
there were many things I might have done.
I was so afraid of my child being taken from
me. I allowed that fear to paralyse my
senses. I might have appealed to Mr. Sandford,
and done many things I know now I
might have done : and it would have been
better for Mm] but I simply lived for my
little one ; my senses seemed numbed in all
directions except in that one. I made it my
idol ; I prayed for it alone ; I dreaded things
for it; I worshipped it, and it was taken
from me If only I knew that the little
life had not been sacrificed to neglect I could
remember it more happily; but in that fear
lies the bitterness of my loss."

^* Then you may remember it more happily,"
said Grace, feelingly, ^* because that London
doctor said to me that the little child could
not have been saved; there was something
very delicate about it, and it had a very
oddly-shaped head."

'' Then I can say God is very good," said

Margaret, so low that Grace could hardly
hear her.

She began to talk again soon, about the
scenery round them, and of Mrs. Dorriman.

There is something — some dread she has.
I have no idea what it is, but the curious
thing is that she so entirely forgets at times ;
then something brings it before her again. I
love her dearly, and I wish she was perfectly
happy."

^'I think she is a dear old thing," answered
Grace; ^^but she always puts me in mind of
some ivy or creeper that the wind has blown
away from its support. She is one of the
women who must have somebody to cling to,
even if that somebody be tyrannical and harsh
like her brother."

^' Yet, in his own way, he has been kind tous."


'^ Very much in his own way," said Grace,
resentfully.

'^ I have a fancy about Mr. Sandford," Margaret
said rather dreamily.

VOL. III. R

*' You have generally nice fancies about
most people, darling ; tell your fancy tome."


^^ You will only laugh ? "

^^ I swear not to laugh."

'^ You dislike him more than I do."

'' I suppose I do, but do you know, Margaret,
that since I am happier, I mean since
I have had so much affection from my husband
and not felt like a boat without oars or
rudder, or whatever the thing is that steers it
I feel ever so much kinder about every body —
even about him. I am quite convinced that if
somebody left me a large fortune I should
become a striking instance of overpowering
amiability."

'^ It is a problem I never can solve. I often
wonder whether trial or prosperity softens
people best."

'' It depends upon the material ; nothing
would hurt you ; but for me, I am a sort of
acid, and more acid makes me into an explosive."


^' My fancy about Mr. Sandford is that atone
time in his life, perhaps when he was
quite young, he has suffered, and cruelly
suffered, from some terrible injustice."

'another case of acids mixing and blowing
up," said Grace, laughing; ^'he is in a perpetual
state of effervescence."

'^ No, but seriously, Grace, he has a great
deal of good in him, and his devotion to his
wife shows he has warm affections somewhere
and ho has always been kind to me."

'you win every one, even Paul. I know
well that you were his first grand passion, and
curiously enough I am not jealous."

'^ Who talks of jealousy ? " said a voice from
below, and Paul, his cigar nearly ended, came
under the window.

^' I am merely saying, dear," said Grace in
her most melting accents, " that, though you
once were madly in love with Margaret, I am
not jealous."

And laughing, Grace escaped to her own
room. Margaret remained at the window.

R 2

She was moved by what Grace had repeated to
her about her child ; yes, better to have lost it
here than to have seen it that

And Grace was really very happy. Paul
was most kind and good, and there was more
manliness about him now than she had ever
thought him capable of ; and yet, she said to
herself, that for her to give her whole heart, to
have such an affection for any one, such as
Grace had for her husband, there must be
higher qualities.

She must look up more, she must have hieland
some one in whom she could find a better
and a nobler self.

And in the softening influences of that hour
and that scene a vivid blush rose to her face,
and she told herself that already one was there ;
and that her heart, crushed as it had been, and
cruelly as she had suffered, was not hopelessly
embittered. She knew that she could love,
and then she sighed. Large tears came into
her eyes and rolled slowly down unchecked
over her face a sudden thrill of passion and of

hope went through her frame, and she knew
she did love !

Next morning came parting with Grace, but
it was a parting in which she allowed n^
sorrow to appear.

She utterly bewildered Mrs. Dorriman by
saying to her, 'you will, I hope, soon have
very good news to send me."

"About what, my dear?" and poor Mrs.
Dorriman's face was expressive of blankest
bewilderment.

^^ About every thing, generally," said Grace ;
"never mind about understanding now, you
will some day ; and it will be all right."

When she and Paul had waved a last farewell
Mrs. Dorriman stood looking out of the
window till the carriage became a speck upon
the horizon.

I wonder what Grace meant, Margaret m}^
love ? she does say such odd things, sometimes.
Did you hear what she said to me
just now ? "

I do not think I know which particular

thing you mean, clear auntie ; Grace says so
many odd things."

^' She hoped I should soon have very good
news to send her. Now, my dear, what news
can I have to send her from here ? It really is
a very odd saying and I am quite puzzled."

^' Do not puzzle yourself ; Grace often says
things that have no meaning."

'' But what do you think, Margaret ? You
know her so much better than I do. What
are you thinking about, just now ? "

I am wondering if it is going to rain,"
Margaret said, and turned away laughing.

As if I had spoken about the weather," the
poor little woman said. But Margaret had
left the room.

CHAPTER IX.

In these days unless adventures take the disagreeable
form of accidents, nothing is likely
to arise in a journey between the north of
Scotland and the south of England to mar the
serenity of one's temper.

Grace, carefully cherished all the way,
travelled with supreme satisfaction. She saw
in the distance, not very far off, happiness
for Margaret. She grew more fond of her
husband each day, in return for the affection
he lavished upon her, and she had none of
the anxieties to which she had once been no
stranger.

There was but one cloud upon the horizon,
and the one drawback to her perfect happiness
lay in that fact. If it grew larger it
might nr her happiness to a certain extent,
and the fear that it might do so troubled her
when she remembered it.

It may be recollected that neither Margaret
or herself had conceived a very high opinion
of Mr. Paul Lyons on first acquaintance ; indeed,
Margaret had had a good deal to do to
bring herself to think happily about his being
Grace's husband ; then, on further acquaintance,
lie grew not only to like him but to
recognise that there was much merit in the
young man, and she was thankful her sister
had fallen into such excellent and kindly
hands.

Grace had been won by his affection for
herself, and by the amount of admiration she
inspired, but she did not take a very high
view of his character, and that fact did not
trouble her in the least. She always took
exception to her sister's ideas as '^ high-flown,"

and, if she had been asked, would have
answered that her husband aspired to nothing
very great in the way of intellect or sentiment,
but that he had quite enough for this work a
day world, and more than enough for her. It
was a daily surprise to her, therefore, to find
that, even in little things, her husband had a
very much higher standard than she had.
This discovery was startling ; she felt she
must take care lest she forfeited his good
opinion. Then one day he was talking about
Margaret, and of her having divested herself
of every farthings of her husband's money,
and Grace laughed a little about it. She was
astonished at the view he took of it ; he was
quite vehement about it.

'^I cannot see it in your way," Grace had
said. "' It seems to me that, as poor Margaret
married the man, she had every right to
whatever he chose to leave her."

'^ I am sorry to hear you say that, even in
fun (I know 3'ou are not in earnest). I
should never have been able to think of Margaret

in the same way if she had acted
differently."

*^ But, Paul, iGhy? Margaret suffered horribly
and behaved like an angel. Why should she
not reap any benefit ? ''

^^ It is not a thing to argue about, it is a
thing one feels," he answered ; '^ and I am
quite grieved, darling, that you should pretend
to think differently." This was pleasant ;
then Paul went on, ^' I cannot myself fathom
her motives : but the way I read the story of
her life is, that she was, for some reason,
anxious to make a home for you — so you have
told me — rushed into the scrape, and has
repented ever since. Girls are so curious. I
suppose she had the independence you have ;
so where the good of it all was I cannot see.
Then, when she found what she had done,
her better, higher nature prevailed, and she
gave the money away."

^'You really think it wrong to benefit in
any way by that man's money ? " asked
Grace, horribly conscious, and feeling most

uncomfortable ; '' supposing, Paul — only supposing
— I had benefitted, would you have
blamed me ? "

'' Do not put such absurd questions," he
answered, sharply; ^' it is not the least like
you to have done such a thing. Can you not
see that, in one sense, in a sort of way, it is
almost like blood-money ? Imagine being the
better for anything of the kind ! I believe
the money would bring a curse and not a
blessing ! "

Grace felt an acute and miserable pang of
self-reproach ; she was afraid now that her
husband might find out, and she knew that
the loss of his esteem would be terrible to her.
He and Margaret thought so much alike ; what
could she do ?

His appointment was worth a few hundreds
a year, and the six hundred a year she had
was counted in arranging their expenses.

Whenever the future was talked of, this
miserable idea haunted her. When Paul advised
her to get something, whenever money

was in question, there was this one constant
weight upon lier mind, and the strange thing
to herself was, that now she began to see a
little as he did, and she could not now understand
how she had reconciled herself to
accepting it, how she could have claimed her
right to this money so complacently.

Paul had proposed to her, thinking her
penniless, and the small fortune had been a
joyful surprise. How she wished now that
she had never had anything to do with it !

But she could not see her way out of it.
She knew that, if she spoke to Margaret, Margaret
would do without things and help her,
but for that very reason she could not speak
to her

Paul saw that his wife was not quite so
bright as usual, but he thought she was tired,
and was full of affectionate solicitude. Every
attention he paid her, every kind word he
uttered, gave her an additional pang.

They slept two nights on the journey, as
Grace had always to be careful, and within an

hour of London Mr. Stevens got into the
carriage.

Grace saw him enter with some miso^ivinof.
The horrible thought occurred to her that
IDcrhaps he might refer in some way to investments
or something that might lead her
husband to make inquiry. She could only
answer by sd caking the truth. To her immense
relief Paul said, " As you have someone
to talk to now I will go and smoke," and
so saying he left her with Mr. Stevens.

Grace felt now or never was her opportunity.
Before Mr. Stevens could look round she
poured out her trouble with a rapidity and
vehemence that astonished him. When he, at
length understood, he entered very fully into
it all.

Yom" husband is quite right ; I should
have the same feeling about it," he said.

^' That makes it worse for me," said Grace,
colouring, ^^ but perhaps you have never had
my temptation ; you were never dependent
ujDon others — very nearly penniless "

^' Penniless, yes ! Dependent, no ! " he
answered, " since I could work for my living''

^^ Mr. Sandford ruled my fate and Margaret's'
answered Grace, " and that was
never thought of ; but I wish — oh ! how I wish
I knew what to do. Would he help me ? "

Mr. Sandford is the one person who could
help you," said Mr. Stevens ; ^^ a frank appeal
to him might be productive of much good, and
my advice to you is not to hide your trouble
from your husband ; let him know it ; the
fewer secrets between married people the less
likely they are ever to disagree."

'' I will tell him some day," answered Grace,
^^ but I have behaved very badly to Mr. Sandford
— he has no reason to love me."

'^ He is a man who has much to contend
against, but he is a generous man. He never
grudges money, and he can but say he can do
nothing. I hope you left all well at Inchbrae,"
he said, with a resolute turning away from the
subject.

'^ ' AlV consisting of Mrs. Dorriman and my

sister," laughed Grace, rallying the moment
her trouble was put out of sight.

^^ Ah ! I am going there next week to meet
Mr. Sandford; there is still something to be
arranged between us."

'' Then," asked Grace, " could you not
say something for me ? Could you not speak
to Mr. Sandford for me ? "

^^I could, certainly, but Mr. Sandford
dislikes me, and after all, to speak plain
English, Mrs. Lyons, what can he do ? There
is only one way in which he can help you. If
he chooses to pay you your income out of his
own pocket, or to pay fifteen thousand pounds
to your account. When you talk of help —
which is an exceedingly vague word — you
should put it in its practical form."

Then everything is at an end'' exclaimed
Grace, and she leaned back upon the cushions
in despair.

^^ I do not quite agree with you," he
answered, " only I wished you to see the
practical side of the question j there is no use

in my going to a man like Mr. Sandford and
when he puts the question, ^ What does she
expect me to do ? ' have nothing to reply on
your account."

'' I cannot ask him to give me fifteen
thousand pounds, it is impossible!" said Grace
flushing at the curt tone used by Air. Stevens.

^^ You need ask him for nothing ; but help
in this case means money — as it generally
does ; leave the sum to him, but you must
understand when you use the world ' help '
what it does mean. I merely wanted to prepare
you for that."

'-'- Thank you," said Grace, whose hopes
were now sunk very low indeed.

She sat silent for a few moments, and then,
looking up, said, '-'' Supposing you spoke to
Mrs. Dorriman, she can say many things to
her brother no one else can, and she always
understands."

^^ Yes," said Mr. Stevens in an odd tone, ^^ I
agree with you, she does understand most
things."

When do you go there ? "

^^ On Thursday, I hope ; and now, Mrs.
Lyons, before we part let me know how am I
to communicate with you."

^^ Can you write to me ? "

^' That is not quite impossible ; but if your
husband is to know nothing about this it
seems to me that my writing to you upon
business matters — now he is supposed to know
all about your business — may lead to complications."


^^ You do not understand, Mr. Stevens, he —
my husband — never asks any questions. I
merely told him I had succeeded to fifteen
thousand pounds ; he was very much surprised
and pleased, I suppose, but there the matter
dropped. Mr. Sandford arranged all about the
money matters for me, and the money
was settled upon me and then upon my
husband."

^' That complicates matters of course; you
have no power to give up money settled upon
him ; I see no way out of it."

VOL. III. S

'* Do speak to Mrs Dorriman/' pleaded Grace,
she has a great opinion of you, and, if you
put the matter before her, something might be
done."

'^ I stili advise you to tell your husband,"
said Mr. Stevens; ^^ remember every day's
delay makes confession more difficult afterwards.
Then again, does not Lady Lyons
know about it ? "

^' I do not think she does," but as she] spoke
Grace felt very uncomfortable. She once again
entreated Mr. Stevens to speak to Mrs. Dorian,
and as Paul got into the carriage again
she could only trust that her persuasion had
been successful.

No one, however, can imagine how this
dread of discovery weighed upon her. Each
time Paul returned, when he had been out
alone, her expression, when he appeared, was
anxiety — did he know ? had anything been
said to make him suspicious ?

*^I am beginning to be afraid you are tired
of me," he said one day ; '^ when I come home

now you never look the least pleased to seeme."



I am glad, dear ; please do not take fancies
into your head."

Well, I wish you showed it a little more ;
I am longing to get you away — you are much
less energetic than you were a little while ago.
The way you stick to my mother is very unlike
you. I am awfully fond of her, and all that,
but I like having you a bit by myself, and her
too for that matter."

Grace turned red and white by turns. She
knew that she was suffering from irritability
produced by anxiety. She was essentially one
who could stand neither fatigue of body nor
anxiety of mind.

^^ What can you have to say to your mother
that T may not hear ? " she asked, with a certain
sharpness of tone that surprised him. He
looked at her attentively, and that seemed to
displease her still more. To his unbounded
astonishment she burst out crying, and cried

swith

a sort of miserable, helpless vehemence,
that was infinitely distressing to him.

^^ My darling ! can you not tell me what is
wrong?" he said, ^'for there is something
wrongs you are not yourself. Who can you
turn to if you have any worry or distress so
well as to your husband ? Have you no confidence
in me ? *'

^^ Don't," she sobbed, ^'you only make me
worse ! "

He was deeply wounded, not so much by her
words as by the way she shrank from him.

Lady Lyons made her voice heard in the
passage, asking if her son was in, and Grace
snatched her hand from Paul, and rushed out of
the room by one door as her mother-in-law
came in at the other.

Paul was an affectionate son, but at that
particular moment he would have preferred to
have had time to discover what was the matter
with his wife, and he was so absorbed that his
mother told him a fact very interesting to her,
and which she considered should have been

equally interesting to him, without his taking
it in.

^^My dear Paul," she said at length, ^^you
are not attending to me one bit ! "

'^ I beg your pardon, mother, I think I heard
what you said."

'' About the doctor, Paul ? "

^^ I think so," he answered, trjdng to recall
her words.

'^ Well, you see, I shall have to get another
that being the case."

''A very good thing, I should say."

'Paul! the death of an eminent medical
man is not a subject for rejoicing."

'^ Oh ! he is dead. Who is dead, mother ? "

'^ Dr. Dickson, and you said you heard what
I said. Oh ! Paul."

'^ Well, I hear now, and I do not think I
ever heard Doctor Dickson's name before."

'' After that ! " said Lady Lyons, throwing
up her hands ; amie was the only man — the only
man who quite understood my constitution."

'^ Well, I'm sorry he is dead if he was useful

to you, mother, but you have been no better
and no worse ever since I can remember
anything. Would you mind my leaving
you for a moment ? I am afraid Grace is not
well."

He left her and went to find his wife.

Grace had recovered herself, and reproached
him for making '' a fuss."

^^ You know I am not strong' she said,
^^ and easily sent up and down. I am like a
shuttlecock, and sometimes, Paul, I feel that
we are not as much alike as we thought."

'^ Now you have hurt and vexed me still
more," he said, in a tone of real vexation.
^^ What discoveries will you make next ? In
what way am I your inferior ? I know in
many ways I am, but in what particular am I
wanting to-day ? "

'^ My inferior ! " said Grace, with sudden
passion; '' I feel beneath you in all things — in
principle, in every thing."

She covered her face with her hands.

*^ I cannot understand you, dear," he said,

kindly ; ^' and if you do not wish to tell what
all this means leave it alone. But my hope
was that you had learned to confide in me, and
I am disappointed. My mother is there, do as
you like about seeing her. I said you were not
well."

'* I am all right," she said, throwing off her
depression and her penitence at once. ^' Gro to
your mother, Paul ; I am sorry you said anything
about my not being well, it was only a
passing indisposition "

He left her not fully satisfied, but knowing
it was useless to press her further.

Lady Lyons was overflowing with motherly
sympathy, and fussed in a way Grace thought
nearly intolerable, and which in days not so
very long ago she would have ungraciously
put a stop to.

But Paul's mother was to her a different
person from the Lady Lyons she had known
and laughed at in the old days, and she bore
her attentions with all possible patience.

The trio sat down to dinner with those subdued

feelings generally indicative of a past
storm.

Lady Lyons resented Paul's evident want of
interest in her physicians ; and Grace was exhausted,
and annoyed with herself for having
given way as she had done ; while Paul, while
trying to converse with his mother, was conscious
of a painful impression about his wife
which he could not shake off.

The atmosphere was therefore not very clear
to begin with ; and poor Lady Lyons, feeling
that subtle constraint that somehow had arisen
between husband and wife, threw all at once
an explosive just when Grace was least expecting
it.

'^ It will interest you to hear, my dear, that
before I came up here I went to see the grave
of your little niece. I found it well-cared for,
flowers, and all that you know."

'' It does not interest me much," answered
Grace, very languidly. '^ I never saw the poor
little thing, and everything connected with

that time is so hateful to me I never willingly
recall it."

^^ As things are, is that not a little ungrateful,
my dear? And he deserves your gratitude
— poor Mr. Drayton ! "

What has Grace got to be grateful for to
that unhappy man?" asked Paul, with very
faint curiosity.

^^ The money, my dear, the fortune ; surely
you know ? "

'^ I hold my money from my sister," said
Grace, defiantly.

^^ Ah ! but, my dear, if he had not left it to
your sister she could not have given it to
you ! " said Lady Lyons, quite sure now that
she had put the case convincingly.

Grace grew as white as marble ; she did not
dare look at Paul. Rallying all her power,
she said —

'sit makes a great difference taking money
from my sister and taking it from Mr. Drayton."


'' I see no difference," said Paul, in a cold

hard tone she had not believed him capable
of.

^^ There'' said Lady Lyons. ^^Paul will
perhaps convince you— since that money came
to you ."

'^ Do leave the subject alone, Lady Lyons
is hateful to me ! "

^^Why, dear me, my dear, this is only a
whim. 1 am quite sure Paul agrees with me."

^'I hate the subject also," said Paul angrily;
and poor Lady Lyons, utterly unconscious of
how she had managed to make things unpleasant,
saw she had done so and began to
apologise.

But Paul's expression, the disgust she saw
written in his face, was too much for Grace,
worn out as she was with the anxiety this
very subject had given her, and she rose,
tried to move to the door, and fell into her
husband's arms in a faint — out of which they
found it difficult to rouse her.

Paul was sorry for her and very anxious.

He had seen her suffer, but he had never
known her faint like this before.

For the moment, and till she recovered,
everything was forgotten ; but when she came
round again Grace saw that she had fallen in
her husband's eyes, and cried bitter tears when
he turned away.

Yes, she had fallen. How often occasions
had arisen when he might have been told the
truth ! How utterly she had kept him in the
dark ! He was resentful, and it was not in him
to see any circumstances in extenuation. If
she thought it right to benefit by this man's
money, why not have said so frankly? In
any conversation about Margaret, when he had
spoken his mind, what was there to prevent
her saying what the case was ?

Mingled with indignation at the way he
had been treated was also the bitter fact that
they would be so much poorer than he had
imagined, because, of course, the money should
go back. It was the price of Margaret's happiness,
and he would have none of it.

Lady Lyons, with the best intentions, drove
him nearly wild that evening.

It is wonderful what powers of irritation
very well-meaning people possess when they
are endowed with blunt perceptions and
limited intelligence.

Some days passed on. There was constant
constraint between the two who, up till now,
had been so happy. Then there came the day
before they sailed.

Grace was lying back in a chair, looking
pale and weary, and her husband was writing.

All at once he looked up and said briefly —

'' Grace, that money must be given up."

*^ Yes," she said, and he thought he heard a
little sob.

*show you can care to keep it!" he said,
trying to subdue his feelings because she was
evidently so unwell.

^^ I care to keep it ! If you only knew how
I hate myself for ever having cared ! Paul,
do you remember your being so violent —
speaking so strongly about it. It took away

my courage. I could not tell you, and it has
been making me so wretched ! "

*'^ But why was I kept in the dark about it
from the first ? " he asked, always trying to
control himself. '^ Why was it talked of as a
legacy ? "

^^ There was no reason you should not have
known at first. I described it to your mother
as a legacy (it was, in the first instance, left to
Margaret) ; it saved explanations, and 1 did not
care for her to know. You never inquired
how the money had come to me. If you had
asked one direct question, I should have been
forced to speak the truth to you."

I see no difference' he said again.

He was most terribly annoyed; the whole
thing was a shock to him, and he was all the
more annoyed because he was conscious that
the increase to his income had been pleasant,
and that it had helped to smooth their path so
much.

Without it how could he afford Grace's
extravagant habits? He knew that the money

coming from his own appointment was not
enough, and out of that even he had given
his mother something. If he now explained
to her how could he explain without hurting
his wife and showing that perfect confidence
had not existed between them ?

In spite of all these considerations he never
for one moment thought of retaining the
money. To him it was the price of Margaret's
happiness, and he now turned over in his
mind how he could say something to his
mother without entering into details which
would be so painful to him.

He turned away once more from his wife,
and once again he said, as he had said before,

^^ The money must go back."

Grace was very miserable. She had learnt
to love her husband and to find much to help
her in his directness, and a certain strength
she had not expected to find in his character.
When she had married him she had thought
that in all important things she would be the
guiding star. He was slow in thought, and

lie valued her own quickness over-much ;
that position of being a sort of '' Triton among
minnows " at a second-class school influenced
her fatally still, and to fall, as she had fallen,
was a bitter mortification to her. She sat
down now to write to Margaret, and, as she
wrote and repeated her husband's sentiments,
she began herself to see things more as he did.
In the meantime poor Paul had a very-difficult
task before him. He had to make
his mother understand, without explanations,
that his promise of help, as far as a regular
increase to her income went, could not be
carried out.

Lady Lyons heard with dismay, in which
a certain irritation against him for having
raised false hopes was plainly visible.

^^ I have engaged a footman," she said,
helplessly ; '' and now I must send him away.
It will look so odd."

^' I am very sorry."

'^ It would have been different, of course,
if you had said nothing about it : then, you

quite understand Paul, that then I could have
had nothing to complain of."

Paul did quite understand. He went out
as soon as he could, going to his club and
entering it with that sense of leaving domestic
and other troubles behind him which makes
club-land enviable to those who know it
not.

But the remembrance of his lessened resources
came before him there. A friend asked
him to give his subscription to help the family
of a mutual friend. Paul was obliged to say,
with great reluctance, that he found, on reconsideration,
he could not do it. This was
doubly hard, as, with the full consciousness
of a good balance in the bank, he had himself
originated the idea.

A clever man would simply have stated
the fact of finding himself less well off than
he expected, and the fact so stated would
have been held sufficient excuse; but Paul
Lyons was not clever, and he hesitated, muttered
something about not being his own,

and gave his friends directly an unfavourable
impression.

Manner so often speaks more plainly than
words.

Even this refuge seemed to have lost its
charm now this unexpected annoyance had
crept up.

He could himself do nothing to strip himself
of this money since it was not his but belonged
to his wife. He took a long walk by the
Embankment, and, in the mood he was in, it
was natural that the past, with all its follies
and the many foolish and wrong things he
had done when he was younger, came before
him. What right had he to judge his wife
so severely ? His temptations and hers were
different ; was his standard so much higher
than hers because he had not known the want
of money as she had ? He began to feel that
he had behaved unkindly, and hurried back
to that hotel in Brook Street where they
were again staying. He would apologise,
and, though he could not keep that money,

VOL. III. T

and hoped she would give it up, still they had
enough to get on with ; — if their bread had no
butter, still, there would be bread

He arrived tired out, and was confronted
by his mother, in a state of abject despair,
her face blurred with tears, who announced
that Grace had gone !

What had passed ? It was in vain that he
tried to get Lady Lyons to tell him, in rational
order, anything about his wife's departure.

Afraid of her son's anger, bewildered by
Grace's sudden departure, the poor lady's
ideas were entangled in a confusion from
which she could not extricate herself ; and her
son, accustomed as he was to sift her statements,
could make nothing of them now.
Suddenly she quoted something said by Sir
Albert Gerald,

^' Was he here then?"

eyes, he was here. I think, Paul, though
I am not quite sure, and I do not want to
assert anything not quite the case, that Grace
sent for him."

Paul had a natural movement of anger ; —
Why should a third person be sent for by his
wife? What business had any third person
to come between them ?

'^ Where has she gone ? " he asked, his self-reproach
of an hour ago still softening him
towards Grace.

''I really do not know — but to Scotland I
think. I heard her say to Sir Albert, ^ You
will escort me,' and he said he was going to
Scotland, so I suppose she has gone there
also."

^^ And left no message, or note, or anything
for me ? " said Paul, with rising anger, not yet
fully understanding that Grace had really
gone.

'soh, my dear Paul! how stupid I am. Yes,
she left a note for you, or a letter — let me see
was it a letter ? — no, I remember thinking it
was oddly folded."

'^ Will you please give it to me ? " asked
Paul with the calmness of despair.

^^ My dear Paul, if you would only not
T 2

hurry me and flurry me so," said his mother,
as she sought in her pockets, one after another,
and then looked under the china ornaments
on the mantel-piece, and drove her son wild
altogether.

At last she said as a brilliant idea crossed
her mind, '^ I remember now. I was so afraid
of forgetting it that I put it inside one of
your slippers, Paul, and I knew that you were
quite sure to find it to-night, when you put
your slippers on. I think it was rather clever
of me, eh Paul ? "

But Paul had left the room.

As he read his wife's note, consisting only
of a few lines, he felt he loved her very dearly.
She had gone to Richmond, she could not bear
to see him so changed towards her.

^' When you have forgiven mo, if you can
forgive me, then I will come back," she said

Paul knew he had forgiven her, but he was
still sore about that third person intervening.
He was on his way to Richmond before many
minutes were over.

Grace received him with intense satisfaction,
she was ready to promise everything.
Then came that question about Sir Albert
Gerald.

^^ Is it possible you do not really understand
all that story ? '' asked Grace, who, now, with
that weight removed from her mind, and
restored to her husband's affection, was in
tremendous spirits.

'' I understand nothing about him. What
story do you mean ? "

Then his wife enlightened him.
'^ I was to let him know about Margaret
when I thought it would not hurt his cause — I
was to send for him."

'^ Oh ! " said Paul, ^' then you think he is in
love with Margaret ? "

^^ I do not think it, I know," she answered,
laughing.

That evening dinner was ready at the
Brook Street Hotel — three covers were
laid.

^' I think you may remove one cover," said

Lady Lyons, '' only two are going to dine tonight."


The waiter looked surprised and hesitated,
then the door opened, and Grace, beaming,
entered, followed by Paul,

CHAPTER X.

Mrs. Dorriman was not a little perplexed
just then by the delay in her brother's arrival.
She had lost much of her dread in connection
with those papers which had at one time
weighed so heavily upon her, and the affection
which had sprung up between her and her
roughly-spoken brother made her feeling in
regard to a ]Possible fault he might have committed
sink into the background. But all
through her little daily duties, rendered sweeter
and pleasant because of Margaret's companionship,
when she was reading or working,
walking by the burn side, or gliding along on

the sea in a boat, whatever her occupation was
there was a subtle indefinable consciousness of
something impending, which did not actually
make her unhappy, but which kept her in a
state of suppressed mental excitement.

Mr. Stevens had something to do with her
not dwelling upon this coming explanation unduly.
He seemed to be ubiquitous, flying here
and there and everywhere at one and the same
moment. He seemed to think so little of what
he called running up to London, but he
managed to spend a great deal of his time at
Inchbrae.

There was a great deal he consulted Margaret
about, but she was quick enough to see
that business was not always the real reason of
his visits. It often happened that a letter
might have done just as well, and nothing buta
dread of seeming inhospitable, made Margaret
refrain from saying so.

Margaret was so accustomed to find that
without any effort on her part those few
specimens of mankind she had met always

managed to fall in love with her, thai she was
afraid now of this being the case, and she
puzzled Mr. Stevens by becoming all at once
distant and reserved with him — her manner
became changed and cold.

It was only nati-al that she should become
her own heroine, now she had no Grace to
think of, and that all interest centred in herself.


Mrs. Dorriman spoiled and petted her. Jean
thought her perfection ; the people liked her
manner, which was both gentle and courteous
to them ; and when they discovered that she
was a '^ giving" lady their respect and
affection rose to enthusiasm. The few outsiders
knew that she had faced a tragedy ; and
the death of her child, her husband's insanity,
everything combined to surround her with the
halo of suffering, which sets a woman apart
from other women.

There was little in the surroundings of Inch-brae
to draw out her sympathies. The people
were not badly off, the crosier question had

not cropped up, and the soil was fertile. Now
and again a sick woman wanted soup and she
got it, or a child was in need of some garment
which gave occupation, but this was all.

Margaret was essentially a loveable woman,
and had that air of dependence which (though
frequently misleading enough) appeals so forcibly
to the chivalrous side of mankind and,
with the claim it establishes, so often creates,
an affection besides.

She was what people call sentimental, but
not in the mis-used sense of that very ill-used
word. Just as the commonest objects in
life, a broken bough, a shallow pool, the faded
leaf upon the grass, resolve themselves into
pictures to the eye of an artist, so where the
poetic faculty exists (more especially when it
has been developed by suffering) all the various
incidents of life, all the impulses and influences
of personal life, become unwritten poems.
Margaret had suffered terribly ; the suffering
was healing under the influence of time, but
leaving a vivid imagination. She lived much

over again, she dwelt morbidly upon her own
shortcomings, and she began to be dangerously
near an all-absorbing selfishness.

There was one pleasure that never palled
upon her — the effect of natural beauty is so
different upon different temperaments. The
freshness of a sea-bound coast, the tints of grey
and green, the harmony of all, is felt by some
who recognise the quickened circulation, and
call it health giving ; and so it is.

To a poet, however, this harmony of nature
says something more — there is a deeper and
fuller meaning in it all, whether the faculty of
expression be given or not. Heaven and earth
do not seem far apart when the soul is stirred
to its very depths. The secret of those forces
that carry awe when manifested in their
grandest power, has a key-note, which, begun
here, is carried upwards. Margaret had the
power of expression, and her poems became to
her the best and highest part of her life ; she no
longer cared to publish them ; so much of herself
was in them that she shrank from letting

any one read them. She lived in a world of
her own, a world full of beauty, but one in
which self entered too much.

Grace's letter, with its violent expressions of
remorse, and its incoherent account of having
left Paul, broke in upon her self-absorbed
feelings with rather a rude shock.

She knew Grace too well to doubt the
despair of which her sister wrote, as though
it and remorse henceforward were to be her
portion ; but she could not doubt her sincerity
about the money ; the cry was too natural,
and Margaret's own sentiments were in such
complete accordance with it.

It had been painful to her the ease with
which Grace had accepted the money, and
she felt thankful now that they lead this point
in common.

In her owen mind the argument she had
used seemed conclusive. ^^ I vowed a vow I
could not keep, and the benefit arising from
a broken vow cannot justly be mine."

Isle rose to answer this letter, which had

disturbed her, and, opening the door, found
Mr. Stevens just coming into the halL

'' Can you spare me a moment ? " he said,
with some anxiety.

She answered ^' Yes," trusting that his
business was really business.

'' I have had such an extraordinary letter
from Mr. Sandford," he began. ^' I wrote to
him about money matters, and his answer is,
that he is not in a position to advance a penny
anywhere. I am afraid things have gone
very wrong ; have you heard anything ? "

"Nothing to this effect. Mrs. Dorriman
cannot imagine why he does not come."

He says, ' I am utterly penniless, and can
do nothing ! ' It is most extraordinary ! '^

'^ I wonder if Mrs. Dorriman knows anything
? shall I go and find her ? "

*' No ; I have written to Mr. Sandford for
an explanation ; till I hear again there is no
use making her unhappy."

"It will affect her?" Margaret asked, with
real interest.

It will affect lier. She told me once she
had no settlements, and was entirely dependent
upon her brother."

I am so grieved."

'^ It will, of course, affect you also, Mrs.
Drayton. It seems very hard upon both
of you."

'' And my sister is giving up that money ;
Paul Lyons cannot bear her having it."

^^ I have made up my mind. I am going
to ask you a great favour, Mrs. Drayton."

"Pray do not," said Margaret, much distressed,
and turning rosy red.

'^ Why ? " he asked, astonished, and very
much offended with her.

^'We had better do let us remain
friends," she said, pleadingly.

^' What else do I want ? " he asked, very
much astonished at her changing colour.

'' Oh," said Margaret, drawing a long
breath and speaking with evident relief ; " of
course I will do anything for you."

He looked suspiciously at her.

^^ You young ladies are so cautious in these
days ; you answered as though I was going
to ask you to lend me ten thousand pounds,
or lay a proposal of marriage at your feet."

Again Margaret coloured violently, but
she laughed also ; she felt she had so nearly
made herself supremely ridiculous.

^' What I want you to do," continued Mr.
Stevens, earnestly, 'sis nothing very remarkable.
I want you to manatee that I shall have
a little time alone with Mrs. Dorriman. I
have something to say to her, and it so
happens that I never can see her alone ; you
are always there, you know."

How Margaret laughed to herself !

'^ My dear Mr. Stevens," she said, all the
former charm and cordiality of her manner
once again in full force. ^' how dreadfully
sorry 1 am that I have been so blind and so
stupid. I am afraid I have been dreadfully
in your way."

'^ Well, you have rather," said Mr. Stevens,
who was disappointed to find her manner,

capricious; he had thought her above that
sort of thing.

Margaret laughed again, but she went upstairs,
put on her things, and then found Mrs.
Dorriman, who was still weighing in her own
mind the respective merits of cranberry or
blackberry jam for the pudding that evening.

'' Which does Mr. Stevens like best ? for
I think he will dine here to-night," Margaret
said with a smile the little lady did not
understand.

'have you asked him, my dear?" she
asked placidly; ''1 did not know he was
here."

'' No, but I think you will ask him. He
is here, and, by the way, he wants to see
you about something."

Mrs. Dorriman took ois her house-keeping
apron, washed her hands, and went composedly
to meet her fate, with an innocence and want
of suspicion that gave Margaret much quiet
amusement.

Mrs. Dorriman was a little nervous, because

she thought perhaps Mr. Stevens brought her
news from her brother. She had not heard
from him for some days, and she expected him
daily ; since the frequent attacks of illness,
which she did not thoroughly understand the
import of, a vague uneasiness filled her.

^^ Is my brother well? Have you news of
him ? " she asked hastily, when she went into
the room.

^^ He was well enough when I heard," he
answered ; and then a sudden shyness possessed
him.

She waited for him to speak, and he noted,
with much admiration, that when she sat
expectant she did not fidget. This power of
stillness he counted a great merit. Nothing
annoyed him so much as being spoken to in
turns, with an intense and unflattering attention
towards an uninteresting piece of work,
or what lie considered uninteresting.

"I wish," he said suddenly, ^^that sou
could think of some one else as much as you
do of your brother ! "

VOL. III. u

Startled, slice raised her eyes, and this look
confused her.

^' I 1 have no one else," she said, in a

low voice.

^' Yes, you have, Mrs. Dorriman, if only you
will try to think so. I believe — I am afraid
the idea is new to you— but could you not try
and like me a little ? I cannot tell you how I
have learned to love you ! but you are so good
and so unselfish. I think — I am quite sure —
there is nobody like you ! ."

Margaret, sitting on the stone seat, heard
voices coming towards her. She rose, and
went to meet those two who, after the flush
of youth and bloom was passed, had for the
very first time found a real home in the heart
of another.

Mrs. Dorriman seemed to have renewed her
youth ; the flush in her face, and the serenity
of her brow, made her look so much younger:

She walked as in a dream. She had for so
long now thought of Mr. Stevens as a most
kind and most helpful friend; and she had

always admired that independence and straightforwardness
that upheld the right without
roughness. And this man loved her ! How
wonderful, she thought in her humility, how
extraordinary, that he, with the whole world
to choose from, should love he)' — wish her to
be his wife.

Margaret's congratulations were most heartfelt.
She understood the charm to Mr.
Stevens that lay in Mrs. Dorriman's sweetness
and gentleness, and there was something
frank and pleasant about him.

The sight of these two, so utterly and
quietly happy, did make her think a little
of the emptiness of her own life ; but she
would not dwell upon this — she would try and
throw her energies into some useful direction.
In the meantime, she would do her utmost
not to mar Mrs. Dorriman's happiness by
any repining about leaving Inchbrae. The
place was very dear to her ; she had grown to
love it ; but she knew that there was no scope
here for her energies. She must turn her steps

u 2

southwards ; she would not make a third ti
the little household. Perhaps Mr. Sandford
might wish her to remain with him, and she
would do this. She told herself she would do
whatever was really right.

Mr. Stevens, before he left Inchbrae, made
Anne Dorriman give him a solemn promise —
a promise that she gave him smiling till, she
saw him grave.

^' Promise me, Anne, that, come ill or good
fortune, nothing will turn you from marrying
me! ''

'' I promise''

She said it thoughtfully, and then insisted
on his repeating the words.

'now," he said, ''if every shilling of your
brother's has gone, if you are left without one,
still you will be my wife ? "

You are speaking as though you knew,"
she said, looking at him inquiringly ; but
he turned her words aside, and she forgot
them.

What have I done to deserve this happiness

? " she asked of Margaret later, when the
two went to their rooms.

'' Much," said Margaret, gently. " Have
you ever lived for yourself ? — never since I
knew you ! I was thinking only to-day that it
was not good for me to be with you, because
you make so much of me and so little of yourself,
that I am growing narrow and selfish."

^^ Nonsense! my dear," answered Mrs. Dor-roman.
'^ Oh ! Margaret, if you knew how I
hate being alone and having to decide things
myself— now think of the comfort of having
some one to go to ! "

'^ And so able to help you," said Margaret,
feelingly.

She also felt this burden of loneliness ; felt
it all the more because of the contrast between
her own life and that of others.

Christie was much moved when the news
was told her.

^^ It is coming near, my dear," she said to
Margaret, ^^ in the Lord's good time."

Margaret did not comprehend her.

Jean was most amusing upon the subject.

^^ And what for no! " she asked, when Mrs.
Dorriman told her. ^' You have never lead
real true love, though Mr. Dorriman, poor
man, was aye fond of you in his way ; but he
was a crooked stick, with no pith in him. This
man's a man to be proud of. There's stuff in
him, and you will be able to lean on him. It's
not a light puff of wind will blow him down ! ''

Mrs. Dorriman wrote to her brother and, ina
few words which she found difficult to write,
told him of her engagement.

She also said that she trusted Margaret
would fill her place and live with him. *' I
think Margaret will be more to you than I
could ever be." She wound up by saying,
^' You have been kind, but I have always felt
that you were disappointed in me. I am not
strong-minded enough to be a good companion
for one so accustomed to more intelligence."

Had she deliberately steeped her pen in gall
she could not have given him a bitterer
moment.

He was physically unfit for any excitement
or worry. His illness had gained rapidly
ujDon him, and he suffered terribly at times.

He received a letter from Margaret which
also troubled him greatly.

Knowing him to be well off, and that he did
not care about money for its own sake, she
wrote with confidence to him about Grace.

'' She has given up the money left to her
after me which I refused to take. I am afraid
that giving it up will embarrass her and Paul.
You have often offered to settle money upon
me — to give me much that I did not want —
will you do something for my sister ? will you
arrange something to make up to her for what
she has given up ? I think you feel with me,
that accepting that money would humiliate me
whether it was accepted by Grace or by
myself."

A few days and then came the answer.
** Dear Margaret,

^^ I have nothing to give. I have no right
to give anything, and I have not got it in my

power. I am ill, and I am miserable. When
I can I am going to Inchbrae. I have something
to say to my sister. 1 think your ideas
about that overstrained''

To say Margaret was disappointed is to say
little. She doubted now whether the stand she
had taken was the right one. All at once she
seemed to see everything differently ; for a
moment or two she felt as though her sensitiveness
on this subject had led Grace to
disaster.

But, on re-reading her sister's letter, she saw
that her objections had had no weight; it was
Paul who thought as she did ; it was because
of her husband that Grace had yielded.

Before she had time to arrange in her own
mind whether it would be wise or not to let
Mrs. Dorriman know about Mr. Sandford's
illness and his loss of fortune, Mrs. Dorriman
had come up to her and recognised her
brother's writing.

At first when Margaret tried to put her off
with the convenient word 'business," Mrs.

Dorriman was ready to believe it, but Margaret's
countenance was expressive ; and the
little woman, anxious at any rate about her
brother, got so hysterical that she was only
pacified by its being given her.

'' I must go to him !" she exclaimed as she
saw the tremulous handwriting; ^^ he must be
very ill."

^' You had better ask Mr. Stevens what he
thinks," said Margaret, gently.

My dear, yes. What a comfort it is to
have some one with a good head on his
shoulders who will advise me what is best
to be done. It is such a comfort ! But I am
very unhappy about my brother ; I must
write at once''

^'Why not telegraph? Mr. Stevens lives
near Ronton; if you telegraphed and asked
him to find out if your brother is seriously
ill, and if he advises you to go to him, you
would have the answer much sooner. We
might easily drive in ourselves with the telegram

and wait for the answer, or go and
wait at Mrs. Macfarlane's."

'' My dear Margaret, what a practical person
you are ; and I know exactly where Mr.
Stevens is just now. He told me how he
mapped out his day, and at this moment he is
in the counting-house at Renton, and will be
there till three."

^' Then we will lose no time," said Margaret.


They had long ago invested in a pony and
pony carriage of their own, and were soon
speeding on their way, Mrs. Dorriman thoughtful
and anxious, sustained by a consciousness
of that help she had so recently become possessed
of ; Margaret silent, wondering a little
what her life was really going to be, noticing,
with a little pang, that even Mr. Sandford,
lonely and suffering though he was, said not
one single word about her going to him.

Something in the scenery brought Sir Albert
Gerald to her mind. She wondered if he
ever thought of lier now ; it seemed strange

that he lead dropiDecI so completely out of
her acquaintance — for months she had heard
nothing of him. More than once she had
said something about him in her letters to
Grace, hut she never took any notice, evidently,
thought Margaret, not understanding
how much she was interested in him as a
friend, since it was only natural after what
had passed between them. She seemed to
herself to have missed happiness all through
her life. Had either her father or mother
lived, or had she understood what Sir Albert
meant about being free ? Adhere was the use
of this going back to old regrets? She blamed
herself because she had thought he would,
before now, have made some sign. After all,
there were many other girls in the world,
and no one could have had so sad a history ;
she had no right to be disappointed, and yet
she knew she was bitterly disappointed.

They went straight to the little post-office,
and, while Mrs, Dorriman despatched the

telegram, Margaret sent the pony to the
inn - stables, and then went to ask for
letters.

There was one from Grace. After dwelling
rapturously upon a new cloak, which, she
said, she should call charity, because it covered
so many sins in the shape of old-fashioned
garments, telling of a bonnet she had fallen
in love with and could not afford, recounting
trifling adventures that had befallen her, she
said,

'^ Do you know of any grand passion Sir
Albert is likely to have ? I hear he has left
London to go and offer himself, his fastidiousness,
his fine place, and his treacherous heart,
to some one he has long secretly loved. I
cannot help feeling angry because, because,
because I hoped some one I knew
had attracted him. Pray do not swear at
me or say anything disagreeable, but it is
horrid : and I think men are a mistake
generally, always excepting, of course, Paul,
with the biggest P you can imagine, and I

am not sure I would say that did I not feel
that he may look over my letter."

A great weight settled upon poor Margaret's
spirits. This was the solution she had feared,
and yet how far more painful is the story
told by a friend than the one we tell ourselves.
The world suddenly became dark to her ; she
was conscious of Mrs. Dorriman's joy and
satisfaction on receiving Mr. Stevens's telegram.
Her brother was better, but would
like them both to go to him towards the end
of the week. " You cannot possibly make
the troublesome journey alone, but I will go
for you and Mrs Drayton' was the substance
of his telegram, and the poor little woman
remembered vividly how, with far less experience,
she had had to make this very
journey alone, and how she felt forlorn and
unhappy and received no comfort from any one.

They lunched with Mrs. Macfarlane, who
was delighted Mrs. Dorriman was going to
have such a nice husband. She was in such
good spirits, so cheerful, and so overflowing

with prosperity, that poor Margaret felt her,
for the first time, oppressive. She exerted
herself on the way home to enter into Mrs.
Dorriman's satisfaction, but every word uttered
in most innocent self-gratulation gave her
companion an additional pang.

'' To be so cared for, for the first time in
all my life ! Not possible to make that
troublesome journey alone ! What have I
done, Margaret, to deserve it all ? How can
I be thankful enough ? "

The afternoon was still only half over when
they got home to Inchbrae. The day's brightness
was as yet undimmed, and set on the far-off
hills lay soft shadows. The sun was
capricious as a youthful beauty, now shining
in all its glory and turning the rippling seato
gold, and then veiling himself behind those
fleecy clouds that floated over the various
peaks and crags. Margaret, throwing off the
bonnet she only wore when she made expeditions
to the little town, went bareheaded
down the burnside, anxious to face out her

trouble and fisrlit that battle with herself
which her sister's letter rendered necessary.

The influences of such an afternoon should
by rights have soothed her. A temperament
such as hers, keenly susceptible as it was,
should have become more in harmony with the
glowing, peaceful, and brilliant scene around.
But when the soul is deeply wounded the very
fairness and serenity of lovely scenery jars
upon it, and the cry is akin to one bereaved
who has lost its all here, and feels the day
garish and the sunshine a mockery.

There was that ever-trembling whisper of
the burn, that sounded not long ago to her
telling her a love story. Now she would have
given worlds to stop it since it told her lies.
Everything, she thought, was happy but herself;
the very bees had a heartless hum as
they rejoiced over a bed of golden crowsfoot
and wild thyme close at hand ; and when
from a little fishing-boat came a cheery Gaelic
song, cheery and yet melancholy because of
its minor key, Margaret's self-restraint gave

way, and, covering lier face with her hands,
she cried quietly, but quite heart-brokenly.

On the hill-side came a rapid footstep, that
yet was not heard on the short, well-nibbled
grass ; a few hill-sheep raised their heads and
looked with a certain wonder at the intruder,
not moving a step, since they knew no fear.
Margaret only heard the slight rustle, when
some one stood close to her ; she had not
time to wipe away her tears ; startled, she rose,
and there calling her softly, and with outstretched
hands, was Sir Albert Gerald.

'^ What has distressed you ? " he said, noting
with quick sympathy her tearful face.

How could she tell him ? He was here, and
the look in his eyes, the whole expression of
his face, told her that he had come to seek her,
Grace's story was true, why had she made herself
miserable ? How stupid she was ! Blushing,
she answered part of his question, and he
was content.

''I thought that you would never come again."

What change had come over everything ?

Margaret thought the day brighter, softer,
more enchanting than ever before known. She
moved as in a dream, outwardly quiet, a whole
world of passion, and love, and gratitude,
swelling her heart.

'- 1 am afraid of my happiness," she said
that evening to Mrs Dorriman, when Sir Albert
had gone out with his cigar, and the two
friends had gone upstairs to bed. '' I am so intensely,
so perfectly, happy ! God is very
good to me ! "

My dear," said Mrs. Dorriman, " I am
nearly as happy about you as I am about myself,
and I think Mr. Stevens is right (he is
always right). He says we need not question
why we are happy, but enjoy it, and be thankful
for it. I like Sir Albert very much indeed,
and if he cannot quite compare with . . . older
men just now, I dare say when he comes
to be older "

^^ He will be a second Mr. Stevens," said
Margaret, laughing, as she said good-night.

VOL. III. X

Next day brought Mrs. Dorriman a letter
from her brother, the contents of which puzzled
her and bewildered her very nearly as much
as the famous letter had done more than two
years and a half ago, when we first made her
acquaintance.

She was to come to Ronton with Margaret,
and she was also to bring Christie with her.
Jean of course would be welcome, but he
wished to see Christie particularly,

Mr. Stevens not hasting arrived, Mrs. Dorian
took her perplexities to Margaret.

^« Why he should want to see Christie is so
very remarkable'' said she, in something of
the old puzzled and plaintive tone.

^' Did he know her in old days ? ''

'' Of course he must have seen her, as a
young man he must have known her, because
she lived on the place, and it was our way to
know everybody ; but all these years she has
been here and he has never taken any notice
of her. I believe she would hardly know him
by sight now''

'' Perhaps she is connected with some memory
of his youth''

'^ Yes ! of course that may be it."

Mrs. Dorriman-went herself to tell Christie
about it ; wishing to prepare the old woman,
doubtful as to her consenting to go on a railway
for the first time in all her life.

But when she reached Christie's cottage she
found her in her Sunday's clothes — her
best mutch * on, and all the small possessions
she wished to take with her ready packed.

^^ How did you know, Christie ? " she asked
in great amazement.

'' When I heard Mr. Sandford was ill and
not likely to mend, I wanted to go and see
him. I made ready ; I have something to say
to him, for your sake, my dear ! "

Mrs. Dorriman sat down to rest.

"For my sake! "she repeated. ^' Oh! Christie,
I want nothing from him."

^' But I do for you, and for myself I would

Highland married woman's cap.

x2

die in the old place; for you, I'd best keep
quiet a bit longer."

She said no more of her hopes and wishes,
but her parting words were :

When you're ready I'm ready ; not but
what railways are fearful things to be sent
about the world, with nothing but a screech
and a puff of smoke."

Mr. Stevens in the meantime entered into
various details with Mrs. Dorriman, even
helping her to settle what things she would
take with her or leave behind.

^' There is one thing you must take, as Sandford
expressly wishes you to do so." He spoke
looking at her a little curiously.

A flash of recollection came to her.

^' The box and papers," she exclaimed.

'^^box and papers. Never again shall I
say that all women are full of curiosity ! I
know differently now."

^^ You know everything, I think," said Mrs.
Dorriman.

CHAPTER XI.

Mrs. Dorriman was very quiet all the long
journey, with the tedious changes going to
Renton. Her heart was overflowing. Her
sweet disposition, which had enabled her so
completely to forgive the wrong done lier
about Inchbxae by the brother she was going
to see, made her fearful lest some disclosures
now might give Mr Stevens an unfavourable
idea of Mr Sandford.

She knew that there was no lildng to begin
with, and that the man she was learning
every day to love more and more resented for
her, more than she did now for herself, the

unfair treatment she had met with at her
brother's hands.

Mr. Stevens was very upright and very
honourable, and he conceived, as most people
would, that for any man to take advantage of
a woman's ignorance of business matters, and
deceive her for his own particular benefit, was
iniquitous ; and Mrs. Dorriman, with her great
unselfishness and humility, her anxiety to do
right at any cost to herself, ought to have been
sacred.

The nearness of the relationship only made
it all the worse ; and he could not bear to hear
his Anne — as he now called her — extenuating
and pleading for this brother.

She learned to understand this, and to shun
the subject ; but it was impossible for her, now
that she was whirling ahmg this same road,
not to feel intensely the contrast between then
and now. The comfort of having everything so
quietly arranged for her — to have no anxieties
because he was looking after everything — was
quite indescribable. One terrible Junction, where

she had formerly stood in despair, and had
been shouted at by porters, and pushed here
and there, lived in her memory as a sort of
gulf, out of which the kind hand of Providence
alone sent her in the right direction, now seemed
a quiet enough station, as, with her hand underneath
his arm, he went quietly round and
ordered the porters about in a manner she
never would have dared to do.

Then they arrived at Renton, and went on,
leaving Jean, by her own wish, to follow on
foot with Christie, who proclaimed herself
tired to death of sitting still, and longing to
take ^' a bit walk."

And this was the place, and this the house,
Mr. Sandford brought her to when he got her
to leave Inchbrae r " said Christie, looking at
the square unpretending ugly house in front of
her. " Jean, my woman, you did not say a
word too much, you did na say enough."

^' It is comfortable inside," said Jean.

'like enough," answered Christie; 'but

you do not know, and I do know, the home she
came from."

Arrived at the house, Jean's air of being at
home was very amusing, even to Margaret,
who had that indefinable sense of something
impending which comes to us all at times.

She was conscious herself of understanding
nothing fully, and she was trying to guard herself
against drifting into a selfish self absorption.
To her the place was full of very
painful memories. Here she had first seen
Mr. Drayton, and, with Grace, had laughed
over those shattered dreams about a coming
prince — who presented himself in middle-aged
plainness. It seemed to her that nothing was
changed, and she half expected to see Grace
flutter downstairs, with saucy speeches and
careless wilful disregard of Mr. Sandford's
wishes.

By-and-bye they had dinner. Mrs. Dorian
had seen Mr. Sandford, who was not
suffering that night, and who wished to see
Margaret after dinner. Mr. Stevens had seen

them to the door, and had gone home to the
place he had taken, with the works, in which
formerly Mr. Drayton had been mixed up.

'^ Margaret, my dear," said Mrs. Dorriman,
when the quiet dinner had come to an end,
Mr. Stevens wants us to go and see his house
tomorrow. He is so kind ; he wants to know
if I should like to alter things — fancy its
having come to this ! that I am to alter things
if I like — it is quite wonderful ! "

^' It is wonderful that you take all this as
you do," said Margaret, kindly. ^^ I wish I
could jut a little conceit into you, or a little of
my own selfishness. I should be better with
less."

'^ You selfish ! My dear Margaret, you only
think so because you have not many other
people to think of just now. Selfish I Why a
selfish woman would have kept all that money.
How much good you have done with it ! "

** That is not the same thing, auntie dear ;
parting with money I disliked using, while I
was assured of all comforts and necessaries

without it, did not involve any sacrifice. It is
like giving away when you are so rich you
cannot miss it ; but I know that I am inclined
to think constantly of myself and of my own
convictions about things ; even your example
has not cured me, though I own it has done
me good."

'^ My example ? My dear Margaret, I never
thought of setting an example to any one ! "

'' No, you never think of yourself in anyway,
and that is why you are so delightfully
unselfish'' and Margaret, not demonstrative
as a rule, rose and kissed her.

Mr. Sandford did not seem so much changed
to Margaret's inexperienced eyes ; his voice,
much lower than before, was still harsh. He
looked long at Margaret, and said, as though
more to himself than her,

'^ I was right ; the likeness is there."

Margaret tried to talk to him, but there was
something so mournful, so terribly sad in
his expression, that she was more than half

frightened and was herself nearly moved to
tears.

'^ I wish you to say 'Forgive'" he said,
in a very hesitating manner, ^'and I wish
you to say good-bye. I want to pass from
you, who are so like her, before you know
my story. Will you forgive ? "

"I do forgive." said Margaret; ^^do not
think that I blame you for all. Grace was
very wilful, and I . . . . made an idol and
dashed myself nearly to pieces against it ; my
judgment was obscured and I also did wrong."

'^ You are kind to say this — there is some
justice in it ; but I have never forgiven
myself ; I have ruined your life ; what is
there now to do ? I have nothing in my
power ; I cannot make amends ! "

'^ Have you not heard ? " said Margaret,
while a lovely colour stole into her face and
made it still more beautiful ; ^' I have love
offered me and I have love to give. Sir
Albert . . . . "

'^ Thank God ! " he said, fervently, and,

exhausted by his own emotion, he closed
his eyes.

Margaret stood up and looked down upon
him ; the interest pity for a man so lonely
and so despairing filled her.

*^ Oh ! " she said, in a low, penetrating
voice, ^^ take comfort ; I am weak and very
full of faults, and I forgive. There is a
Higher to look to, to ask forgiveness from.

If I can forgive, who am like yourself "

she paused, frightened ; watching his face,
she saw an expression of agony joass over it.

'^ I will come again," she said, hurriedly,
and went to call his servant.

She waited late that night but only heard
of his being better, and then went herself
to rest.

Next day Mr. Stevens came, and remained
talking to Mrs. Dorriman. Mr. Sandford was
much better, and they were to go and see
Mrs. Dorriman's future home.

It was certainly an instance of there being
two sides to every question. ]margaret, who

had never driven far while at Renton, and
who only knew the grimy streets outside Mr.
Sandford's circumscribed grounds, was astonished
to find herself driving out into the
country, with a broad river full of ships, life,
colour, and movement. The carriage turned
into a broad avenue of trees, and the grounds
were well kept and large, the house charming
and full of lovely things. Mrs. Dorriman
was quite delighted with it all. She had a
womanly element of loving good domestic
arrangements, and thought she had never
seen a house more conveniently planned or
more thoroughly delightful. Even the smoke
did not seem to penetrate so far as this abode
of bliss, though Mr. Stevens, who was nothing
if not honest, assured her it did inter the
influence of certain winds.

'you cannot expect otherwise so near a
manufacturing town."

"Then'' said Mrs. Dorriman, in so delighted
a state of mind, and seeing everything so
completely couleur de rose, '^ before very

long there will very likely not be any smoke,
it will all be consumed," a supposition proving
clearly enough that she was unreasonably
hopeful, since doing it is economical and is
said to be easy, and is never done.

They were a little alarmed to see that the
doctor was watching for their arrival.

'^ Mr. Sandford had rather a bad attack
but is better again. He wishes to see you
all if you will go to his room. If he is much
agitated I have some drops I should like to
give myself, so I will wait here, if you please''

He said all this in a matter-of-fact tone,
strangely different from the state of excitement
poor Mrs. Dorriman was in.

^^ Does Mr. Sandford wish to see me?"
asked Mr. Stevens.

^^You were particularly mentioned," answered
the doctor.

Mr. Sandford was sitting in front of his
writing-table, his right hand shading his face.

'^ I am sorry you have been ill, brother,"
said Mrs. Dorriman, gently.

He took no notice, and did not raise his
head.

'^ Is Christie here ? " he asked.

There was a pause, and the three stood full
of a suppressed agitation. Even Mr. Stevens,
as he looked on the terrible signs of suffering
on the haggard and miserable face before him,
was conscious of a far softer and more forgiving
spirit.

Christie came at once and stood near the
door, a triumphant expression upon her
fcatui^es.

Still keeping his hand so, partly screening
his face, Mr. Sandford began to speak in a
low clear distinct voice, without inflections or
emphasis — a voice that seemed hardly to
belong to him.

'^ Anne, I have wronged you most. I must
speak to you, and the others must hear.

^^ You have sometimes, in old days
you used often to ask me who my father's first
wife was — you remember ? Who my mother
was?'^

I remember."

My father, our father, was only married
once, Anne, and your mother was the only
wife he ever had."

There was a breathless silence — Mrs. Dorian
not fully understanding the purport of his
words.

Therefore'' continued Mr. Sandford in a
hard tone, speaking almost as one under the
influence of some powerful narcotic, '' I have
no rights, no name. I am not the heir, I never
was the master of Sandford ! "

'' But you are my father's son ? " exclaimed
Mrs. Dorriman in a tone of intense suspense.

I am — but, Anne, I am his nameless son.
He never married my mother. Now do you
understand ? "

Mrs. Dorriman turned to Mr. Stevens, her
face pale, she was trembling. She was
evidently intensely surprised. He took her
hand in his and spoke to her, in a low voice,
reassuring words.

'' Before you all judge me, hear me ! " continued

the unhappy man, "for my temptation
was great and my trial a terrible one !

^^As the only son — brought up unchecked
and with power in my hands — it was not till
I was nearly twenty-five, madly in love with
my wife, that my father told me the truth

'^ My God ! how I suffered ! My father
always intended to tell me but he dreaded a
scene and put it off always. I think she knew,
and I was afraid of her ! " — he indicated
Christie with his hand.

Do you think that if I had known I would
have stood hj and seen ill done till her ? " and
Christie's wrinkled old face glowed with passion.
" I had no proof, but I thought my own
thoughts. Your mother was a neighbour on
the hillside and she went away ; she came
back with her bairn at her breast and never a
wedding-ring, and she greeted and greeted.
A happy wife is proud of her man, she never
spoke of hers, she just twined and died ; and
your father, a young young man, came home
and saw her on her death-bed. ' I'll care for

VOL. III. Y

the bairn he kept saying in my hearing, and
you was moved to the big house. He grieved,
for he was kind-hearted enough — but weak,
weak as a bracken bough." Christie stopped
short, and a dead silence reigned in the
room.

'^ When I went to my father and told him
that I loved Margaret Rivers (and Heaven
knows how I loved her !) he answered that I
must have known this. The facts had been so
impressed en his own mind that he imagined
I must somehow have known them.

'^ Day after day I renewed my prayers —
only to be refused. The strain upon him, the
incessant agitation, all acted unfavourably
upon him, and the last violent scene we had
together ended in his having a paralytic shock,
so severe that he lost all power of speech.
The terror and misery of it all I still remember,
then suddenly it came before me
that, as no one knew this dread secret, I
might take possession. I spent hours looking

through his papers, but I found no proof
against me.

'^ Colonel Rivers had gone to India with his
daughters. I followed him there, and married
the only woman I ever loved, only to lose hera
short time afterwards. I went about nearly
mad. I threw up the appointment in a
merchant's house 1 had, and I came back.
My father had grown feebler, but at times
I was afraid he might rally sufficiently to tell
you, Anne, about it. For this reason I sent you
from home, and, as we always hate where we
have injured, I hated you, and hurried your
marriage to get you safe and away from my
sight — you were a perpetual reproach to me.

Then one day your husband found some
papers. He was embarrassed and hampered,
and I lent him money. He was not a goodman
of business, and I found it easy to lead
him to do what I thought best — but it was
equally easy for the next comer to make him
do exactly the reverse. In all his difficulties
his ruling wish was to put you beyond the

y2

reach of adversity, to make you independent.
But he only succeeded partly. When he found
those papers he came to me and said he had
found some curious letters. They were letters
from my father to my mother, and, had he
read them, he would have known all ; but
he was an honourable fellow, and, having
accidentally seen one and been amused by
the spelling, he did not read any more. I
was afraid of being too eager, and, before he
could give them, he was taken ill and died,
and you have those letters now, Anne ; they
are in that box some instinct, I suppose, made
you keep."

He lay back now exhausted — nothing save
Mr. Stevens's sustaining hand had kept Mrs.
Dorriman quiet. She was fearfully agitated :
the cruel wrongs heaped upon her, the long
years of a dependence which had galled her
so terribly — everything came before her. Mr.
Stevens, passing his arm round her, took her
out of the room ; he saw she could bear no
more, she was overwrought.

^* Mr. Sandford opened his eyes, and saw her
going.

'' All ! " he said, bitterly, ^^ at last I have
driven her from my side, even her patient
spirit is at length roused. Margaret."

'eyes," she answered, in a constrained
voice.

You are condemning me also."

She could not speak.

The times without number that she had seen
him violent and abusive to poor Mrs. Dorian,
the cruel sting that being at his mercy
had always been to the poor woman, the imposture,
everything bewildered and shocked
her.

Mr. Stevens went back, Christie still leaned
against the door like a statue.

How your fraud was successful, I cannot
understand," he said, curtly.

'who was there to ask any questions?
Who was to know what had passed ? '' asked
Mr. Sandford ; '^ I had nothing to prove. The
result of my father's deception was to make

all easy. As I had lived with him, been accepted
as his legitimate son during his lifetime,
during the time when he might have spoken,
why should I not be accepted as his legitimate
son when speech was denied him ? There
were no papers to prove or disprove anything,
I was asked to produce no baptismal certificate,
and no one thought of questioning me about
my mother's marriage certificate.

^' But now you know all, take what steps you
like to proclaim me to the world an impostor —
what signifies it to me ? No one can deny me
the six feet of earth which is all I shall want
directly."

'* Sir," said Christie, ^' when you sold the
place was it for fear of a judgment if you
lived in it ? "

'^ Sold the place ! How could I live in the
place to be reminded at every turn that it was
not really mine ? Every tree, every shrub,
seemed to be a witness against me. I grew to
loathe the place."

"And what made you think I knew anything
? "

'' Because joivc father was so much with
mine' he answered slowly ; '" I never was sure,
but I sometimes fancied he knew something."

He knew nothing, but he did guess ; he
said, when you sold the place, it was strange,
that a man that was well-to-do would not sella
family-place without a strong reason.
But my father was right in what he said," she
exclaimed, her eyes becoming brilliant as she
saw the fulfilment of his prophecy coming
nearer and nearer; '^ he said you would have
your own, my dear, and you have it now ! ''

She spoke as though Mrs. Dorriman were
still present.

Margaret saw that Mr. Sandford was almost
past consciousness, and she hurried them away
leaving him alone with the doctor, whom she
summoned.

Mrs. Dorriman, who for so long now had
been kept out of her rights, was quite overwhelmed
by this sudden reversion of all her

accustomed conclusions ; all the long years
of her dependence had so nearly crushed her
spirit that it was difficult for her mind to
grasp her present position. Mr. Stevens was
full of patience.

^^ And the place is sold ! '* she said, with
a sudden sense of not being able to have it,
in spite of all.

I think we can get the man who bought
it to give it up'' said Mr. Stevens ; ^^ we will
try at any rate."

She was crying bitterly ; she remembered
her father's gentle indecision, even about
trifles, and indeed her youth would have been
far, far happier had he only been able to
stand against his son's overbearing temper;
but the knowledge of the wrong he had done
him made him give in to him. He had been
a man who hated anything that disturbed
his tranquillity, and only when obliged and
forced to do so had he told his son the truth.
The effect of this blow was terrible. To have
been allowed to grow up looking upon his

position as certain, and, just when he was
most anxious to have a fair future to offer
to the Margaret Rivers he worshipped, to have
everything swept away from under his feet,
nearly turned his brain.

Mrs. Dorriman could not see her brother
at any rate then, and Mr. Stevens did not
press her to do so. He knew" that the doctor
did not think there was any immediate danger,
he was to escort her to Inchbrae, fully understanding
that lie had received too great a
shock to recover from immediately.

When she asked Margaret to return with
her, as a matter of course, she was surprised,
almost hurt, by her refusal.

'^ I feel that you have happiness in prospect,
auntie darling," Margaret answered; 'but
this most unhappy man ! Oh, do not look
so grieved ! I must do what I feel right. I
cannot leave him to face this remorse, and
all alone."

'' I cannot think of him ! I could not see
him ! " said poor Mrs. Dorriman, with a

vehemence utterly foreign to her nature.
^' Oh, Margaret, if you knew all I suffered in
old days ! " she stopped, with a sudden sob.

^* Do not think that I do not sympathise
with you fully and entirely ; it is a terrible
position ; he has injured you, and it has been
most cruel; but, auntie, do not let him do
you further injury, for there is a further
injury that this may do you, a greater
wrong ! ''

Mrs. Dorriman hurriedly swept away her
tears that were blinding her, and gazed at
Margaret with blank astonishment.

*^A further injury, Margaret! What further
injury can be left ? I have suffered surely
enough at his hands ? "

'' Oh ! " exclaimed Margaret, passionately.
^* Do you not see — can you not feel — that if
you allow this to rankle in your mind ; if you
allow the sweetness of your nature to be
turned to gall ; if your soul suffers, and that
you say it is not possible to forgive — there will
be a deeper injury? ''

She stopped and left her, and poor Mrs.
Dorriman stood looking after her, as though
expecting her to return.

Once before she had had a bitter struggle,
and she had forgiven. She went to her room,
where all was ready for her departure, and she
shut herself in . . .

Blank and desolate was Mr. Sandford's
room. He allowed no one to come near him.
He sent away Margaret, though she had insisted
on bringing him food, and had tried to
talk to him.

He sat long hours suffering acutely both
physically and mentally. He seemed only
now more fully to realise what a crime his
was. His sister's character, in his eyes so
feeble, was, he had conceived, unfitted for
the position she should have held; and this
was his own excuse to himself when conscience
asserted itself, or rather tried to do so.

They had all left him, he thought. There
had been a bustle and a movement in the hall,
and he had heard wheels.

The light was waning fast over the room, by
the shadow of twilight, in which his face
looked wan and white.

He knew that his hours were numbered, and
he wished to pray; but he had no habit of
prayer ; he had always been afraid . . .

How he was suffering ! His heart beat as
though each stroke would burst it.

The door opened very slowly, and he started
up. Who was the intruder ? Who was it
that came to mock his sufferings ?

Then a gentle voice spoke out of the dim
and fading light — " Brother ! " and Mrs.
Dorriman came up and knelt down by his
side.

'' I have been wrongs she said. ^' I thought
only of myself, and I did not realise your
wrongs. Once again I come to say forgive, as
I hope for forgiveness myself."

Her voice died away. She heard him say
fervently, in a very low voice, '^ Thank
God ! " and she went on —

'' But while I do wish you to know this — to

try and forget the wrong done to me — there is
another to turn to, to ask for forgiveness from."

She felt his hand clasp hers ; and as in a
dream came from his lips that first prayer of
childhood'' Our Father ! "

She left him after a while; but she did not
go away that night.

Next day his servant, who slept in the little
ante-room, saw that he had been busy writing,
and then laid down and was now sleeping.

The doctor came and saw him, and directed
that some one should stay beside him.

The hours went on, but Christie sitting
there saw no change, only a greater stillness
seemed to fill the room.

Then suddenly she saw that the sleep was
the eternal sleep which knows no waking

here.

*****

Mrs. Dorriman at Inchbrac once more suffered
long from the effects of all the agitation
she had gone through. The last night of Mr.
Sandford's life was spent in writing to her, but

even to Mr. Stevens she said nothing of the
contents of his letter, only comforted by the
whispered prayer which was her last remembrance
of him. One point she was anxious
upon : the recovery of the old place, and
whether there was any necessity for letting
the world know this painful chapter in the
family history.

Mr. Stevens arranged both matters for her.
Mr. Sandford, having by will left everything
to his sister, she paid the legacy duty for the
money, which was found to have accumulated
enormously.

Sandford was bought back and refurnished,
and, under Mrs. Macfarlane's wing, Mrs. Dorian
again changed her name, and Mr. and
Mrs. Stevens Sandford went to the old house.
By her express wish there were no great
rejoicing — in her heart would remain for a
long time that sense of a terrible past, which
time only could soften and heal.

But, as a tree nipped and blighted under
cruel exposure and an unfavourable soil revives

and blossoms when transplanted into
genial air, so Mrs. Dorriman's character (we
must still call her Dorriman) grew firmer and
stronger.

She had much to forget, but love is a great
factor, and, as the subject was one which, after
the first, Mr. Stevens Sandford would not
allow her to dwell upon or talk about, it
passed out of her mind by degrees.

She had now a fuller life, sons and
daughters clustered round her, and gave her
the love she had craved for.

^ * ^ #

Margaret and her husband were content to
live a quiet useful happy life. Her other
children did not banish the first from her
memory, and her spirits were never high.
But she was happy and cheerful. The one
constant ruffle on the surface of her smoother
sea was her sister.

Grace was always the same Grace — at one
moment passionately fond of her husband
and lavishing affection and endearment

upon him, and the next quarrelling violently
with him, and accusing him of almost every
sin mentioned in the Decalogue.

Still she kept his affection ! She was one of
the provoking, irritating, and yet charming
people that could sway the passion of a man at
will, and she had that strongest claim on the
forbearance of a generous man — ill health.

She was a perpetual astonishment to her
sister, and often a terrible anxiety.

Margaret's poems were no longer passionate,
or even powerful. It has been said, and with
a good deal of truth, that the grandest poem
like the sublimest music, springs from human
wretchedness, but this applies to poetry set ina
minor key.

Margaret's husband gives another reason
for her silence. The constant care and
thought lavished upon every creature within
her radius — she is one of the woolen who
finds her truest happiness in giving it to
others.

Christie did not live long; she saw her

beloved mistress installed in her old home,
and died soon afterwards, happy now right
was done.

And Jean ? Jean took every one by surprise,
and married a hard-working, steady
good mechanic at Ronton.

They all exclaimed when she announced
her marriage, and Mrs. Dorriman said:

^' And you, Jean, who think it so dreadful
to live near all that smoke, and found it so
different to what you had been used to ? "

'eh, ma'am," answered Jean, grinning
from ear to ear, "it's no the place, it's the
man ! "

THE END.

VOL. III.

PRINTED BY NICHOLS AND SONS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

3 0112 0416 74513
