OF THE

U N Diversity

or ILLINOIS

3-23,
v.\

VOL. I.

SPOTTISWOODR AND CO., New-street Squab

London"

BY

Georgians M. CEAIK
(mes a. w. may)

AUTHOR OF 'a DAUGHTER OF THE PEOPLE' 'GODFREY Headstone ' ETC.

IN There VOLUMES

VOL. I.

LONDON
RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON STREET

(.lublisbrrs in 0)rbinarn to 14]cr ^ajcstn tbc (i^nrrn



All rights reserve

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/diana01crai

\r,

DIANA

CHAPTER I

i

HE was as swift as an arrow, as
bright as sunshine, and as dominant
as a strong west wind. The
kingdom over which she ruled, it is true,
was but a small one, for she was only the
daughter of a country parson (the meekest
of men), and her subjects were merely her
father, and her father's second wife, and
some score or two of old men, women, and
children in the village ; but the holding of
undisputed sway over even the smallest
VOL. I. 13

empire is a matter that gives a sense of
sovereignty, and Diana in her tiny realm felt
possibly as much a queen as though she had
been the anointed ruler over thousands.

She was two-and-twenty ; she was strong-willed
and bright witted ; she had a temper
that, serene as it might be at most times,
could flash fire when necessary, in a fashion
that contributed not a little to keep her
vassals well in awe of her ; for they feared her
quick tongue much as they might have feared
a sword, and humbled themselves before it
with an alacrity that not unfrequently filled
Diana herself with amazement. For the girl,
to give her her due, was very simple, and
free from all extreme self-estimation. She no
doubt ruled those round her, but she did so
only because she could not help it — because
there was such energy and force and capacity
in her, and, to tell the truth, such want of capacity
and of every gift for ruling in those who

most closely surrounded her. She was the one
strong element in a feeble household ; the one
active spirit of movement in a sleepy parish.

Eector Fielding sat one morning in his
modest study writing his Sunday's sermon —
a gentle, clerical-looking man, not old, but
yet worn-looking and grey. He bore no
remotest resemblance to his daughter ; nor
was there much resemblance to her, either, ina
weakly painted miniature which stood upon
the study mantel-piece, and which represented
the lady who had given Diana birth. This
lady seemed to have been ^9^^zV^, and pale,
and fragile ; whereas Diana's height was almost
five feet nine, and she had the gait and the
air of a young Hebe.

Yes, it is curious how little she is like
either her mother or me. I can't account
for it,' Mr. Fielding would often say, with a
wondering look in his light blue eyes. And
indeed there was little doubt that Diana and

B 2

Diana's ways had during all these two-and-twenty
years of her life frequently astonished
the worthy gentleman immensely.

And yet if there was one creature whom
Jonas Fielding loved in the world, and believed
in with a simple and childlike belief,
it was his daughter Diana. He was quite
aware that she ruled over him absolutely,
but his consciousness of her dominion only
gave him a comfortable sense of security ;
she was so capable, and in his heart the goodman
knew that (in a worldly sense) he was
not capable ; she was so quick and decided,
and he was so vacillating and dilatory. Perhaps
there might be moments when her rapid
ways tried him a little and made him nervous ;
there might be hours in which it could possibly
be said of him that he half wished (for
his wife's sake rather than his own) that her
sovereignty in the house were just a little
less strongly emphasized ; but on the whole

these periods of disloyalty came very rarely,
and when they did come were brief.

Diana never means to be masterful, my
dear — we both know that,' he would say
earnestly and deprecatingly at times to Mrs.
Fielding ; and that kindly woman, when he
made any such speech, would assent always
with a gentle smile. For it might be a trial
in some ways to have a step-daughter who
managed you as if you were a little child ;
but if your back and your head were aching,
and the toil of bringing up three active
children was a toil that seemed often beyond
your strength, the chances are that you
would soon fall into the way of thinking that
the person who relieved you from your cares,
and left you the power to lie down and rest
and close your eyes in peace, was a person,
on the whole, of the nature of a heaven-descended
blessing.

And, in point of fact, this was what Mrs.

Fielding did. She was not of a jealous disposition
; she was a gentle, kind-hearted
woman with weak nerves and a weak physique
; but she loved Diana, and on the whole
was grateful to her, with a gratitude that was
one of the strongest feelings of her life. For
Diana, in truth, was very good to her, and
petted and cheered her, and worked to supply
her deficiencies always with a will and an
energy that knew no weariness.

It was, however, it must be allowed, no
hardship to this young woman to work, so
she deserved but a small portion of praise
for her industry. It was not work but inaction
that was ever irksome to her. She was
toiling away at this moment, as the Eector
sat in his study writing his sermon, with quite
superfluous energy in the garden, transplanting
some large bushes which, it had
occurred the day before to her revolutionary
mind, would grow better in another situation.

I think I'll move them,' she had said to
her father.

My dear,' he had answered, ' it seems tome
they look very well where they are.'

But she had turned the matter over for a
few moments in her mind, and in that brief
space had taken her resolution. And so here
she was now, with a spade, and a barrow,
and a broad hat on her head, and gardening-gloves
upon her hands, digging away round
the root of a bush, with a strength that,
as her father looked up from his writing-table
and saw her, filled him with amazement.


To the good man, whose own thews and
sinews were in a very weak condition, such
energy was altogether astonishing. He admired
it, but yet the sight of it disturbed
him ; it interfered with the quiet flow of his
thoughts ; it set a jar into the midst of his
placid periods. The good Eector had a certain

gift of utterance by which he set some meek
store. Perhaps he was conscious that he was
not powerful ; but in his gentle breast he
believed that he was eloquent. He could
spin out mellifluous sentences to an extent
quite limitless ; he could even at times be
pathetic, and bring tears to the eyes of some
of the weaker members of his congregation.
But how could he be pathetic this morning
while Diana's vigorous figure stood constantly
in his sight, digging with all her might within
ten feet of his study window ?

A stronger-minded man would have
turned his thoughts from her and fixed them
on his manuscript, but Mr. Fielding found
himself unable to do this. She was working
so horribly hard that he could not keep his
eyes off her. The shrub on which she was
engaged had so deep a root that, sturdily
though she struck her spade into the soil, she
could not get to the bottom of it, but was

finally reduced in an unworkmanlike and undignified
way to seizing it by the stem and
worrying it — a device which resulted presently
in so sharp a shock to her that, as the
root suddenly gave way at last, she staggered
backwards, and so nearly lost her balance
that her father jumped up from his seat and
cried, ' God bless me ! '

But the next moment Diana's bright clear
laugh sounded across the gravel walk.

Why, I might have fallen then and
broken my back! ' she was ejaculating in the
cheeriest way. I know you thought I should,
Susan.' (The person she addressed as ' Susan '
was her step-mother.) ' You are always
thinking I shall break some part of me, and
this fellow did really nearly knock me down ;
but I've mastered him, you see, and now I
must get him carried ofi*. I hardly think,
though, that I can manage to carry him all
alone.' And she stood still for a minute or

two and regarded her fallen enemy thoughtfully
; then briskly looking up —

Father ! ' she called suddenly with decision.


My dear ? ' answered the Eector meekly
through his open window.

I want you to come here. I am moving
these bushes ' (this was a piece of quite
superfluous information), ' and they are so
big and heavy that I shall need someone to
carry them with me. You must come and
help me a little bit — won't you ? '

'Oh yes, my love — oh yes,' said Mr.
Fielding ; but there was a perceptible lack of
fervour in his tone, and he sighed half-audibly
as he wiped his pen and laid a paper-weight
over the loose sheets of his sermon.

I rather wish you had not begun this
work just now, Di,' he said gently next
minute when he had joined his daughter.
You see, it is too much for you.'

Yes, but it won't be too much for both of
us,' replied Diana promptly and cheerily, and
she looked up at him with a smile like a sunbeam.


The smile almost reconciled him to his
fate, but there was still a little reluctance in
his tone as he remarked deprecatingly, ' It
was only my sermon that I was thinking of,
dear child. I haven't been getting on with it,
as . yet, this morning quite so well as I could
wish.'

Then I am delighted that I have brought
you away from it,' replied Diana instantly. 'I
am sure sermons can never be any good that
are written against the grain. Whenever you
find that you can't write them comfortably
you ought to give them up.'

My dear ! ' said the Eector.

But, father, you know you ought. What
does a sermon matter one way or the other ?
You have plenty of old ones that you can

always preach, and who would ever mind
whether what you preached was old or new ? '

'Ah, well, there are not many who would
care — that is true enough,' Mr. Fielding
assented with a sigh. ' One always goes on
trying to write something fresh, and something
better ; but I don't know ; I dare say
I don't often succeed. Still the effort is something.'


The effort is sometimes very bad for
you,' replied Diana bluntly. ' It makes your
hair grey, and brings crow's-feet round your
eyes. Now gardening will never bring crow's-feet
round your eyes, so help me with my
bushes, dear, and it will give you such an
appetite for dinner. And I'll tell you what,
dear dad : we'll have a walk this afternoon
together.'

I have to go and see Mrs. Potter this
afternoon, Di.'

'Well, Til go and see Mrs. Potter too.

or at least I'll go to her door with you.
I won't go m, because I don't like her. She's
an old humbug.'

My dear ! ' remonstrated the Eector.

'Well, she is. She tells Hes, and takes
you in. She is sanctimonious, and I can't
bear sanctimonious old women.'

'Let us trust that she is serious, Diana.
I think perhaps she is. At any rate I — hope
she is.'

'Hoping isn't much good,' said the girl.
But, you dear old father, you are always
hoping.' And she looked at him for a second
with eyes that had a good deal of tenderness
in them. ' Come and help me now,' she
exclaimed next moment. ' Look ! we have
got to carry this fellow over there — to the
other side of the lawn.'

Very well, Di. Certainly, Do you
think, if I were to take it upon my shoulders
?' said the Eector.

Upon your shoulders ? No I ' retorted
Diana sternly. ' Do you suppose I am
going to let you bear the whole weight
of it? You may take up the heaviest end
if you like.'

Oh, certainly.' And then Mr. Fielding
seized hold of the root.

But wait now ! Don't begin to lift it
till I'm ready. I have to get a grip of it
somewhere. Bushes of this size are wonderfully
unmanageable things.'

Most unmanageable ! ' The Eector's
answer came as if from his heart. ' And
the worst is, that when you transplant them
they are so likely to die.'

H — m I ' said Diana.

She knitted her brows and pressed her
lips together. To tell the truth, the work •
she had so lightly undertaken had proved
a good deal more laborious than she had
been prepared to find it. Nevertheless,

having set about it, she was not the woman
to draw back.

Take it up now,' she said. ' I've got
a good hold.'

And then the Eector Kfted his burden.

They stumbled with it together across
the lawn. It was very awkward to carry,
especially at Diana's end ; but she affected
the utmost ease, even when it twice escaped
from her ; and Mr. Fielding thought it was
he only who was suffering. He took out his
handkerchief when he had reached the other
end of the grass and wiped the moisture
from his forehead.

Very warm for the time of year,' he
said apologetically. ' Singularly warm for
so early in the year.'

'Yes,' said Diana, ' it is warm — just the
right sort of weather for transplanting. Now,
this is the place : we have got to dig a hole
here.'

Ah, yes, I'll get the spade,' said the
Rector.

So he got the spade and began to dig,
and the perspiration was soon running down
his face.

Diana saw this with regret. ' Old dad,
I'm stronger than you,' she suddenly said,
and took the spade out of his hands and
completed his work.

'Yes, Di, you are stronger,' he assented,
perhaps a little sadly.

It is because I write no sermons,' she
said with a half-laugh. ' Look — this is deep
enough now, isn't it ? Lift the thing in
and try. Oh yes, it will do. Now shovel
in the mould, and stamp it well down. Ah,
I'm glad that's done ! '

'You won't attempt the other one this
morning, will you, my dear?' asked the
Eector, almost wistfully.

Diana paused for a moment or two and

knitted her brows. The spirit — even her
spirit — felt a little weak ; her father, as she
perceived by a rapid glance, was looking
extremely damp ; but yet to start a work
and leave it uncompleted was a thing against
every principle of her creed.

We had better go on and get it finished,
now that we have begun it,' she suddenly
said with firmness. 'Look — I'll fetch another
spade, and we will both dig at the same time.
You shall make the hole here, and I'll dig
up the bush. We will have it done in ten
minutes ; and then won't that be a satisfaction?'


She put her inquiry with enthusiasm ; but
the Eector rather failed to catch her fervour.

Well, perhaps it will be best, Di,' he
did, however, find himself able to say ; and
then he wiped his face again and renewed his
exertions. Manual labour was very wholesome,
he reflected patiently — unquestionably

VOL. I. C

wholesome, though to weak sinews perhaps
a little trying. So he did his work, and the
second shrub was got transferred to its new
resting-place.

He was very hot when the business was
finished, and his cheeks were quite pink from
the unwonted exercise ; and, indeed, Diana
was warm herself.

I think, my dear, I'll go indoors,' he
said, a little nervously. ' After over-heating
one is very susceptible to cold.'

That's true. And you do catch such
awful colds sometimes, you know,' assented
Diana readily. 'But you look in a beautiful
glow now. I only wish you could keep it up.'

My dear, I shouldn't like to keep it up.
It's — it's very uncomfortable,' said the Eector.

Very uncomfortable to glow ? ' inquired
Diana surprised. ' Oh, like it. It gives one
such a consciousness of one's blood being all
alive.'

It does indeed : oh yes, it does that'
said Mr. Fielding. 'Perhaps rather too
violent a consciousness. However, you are
young, Di, and I am old '

You are nothing of the sort, father ! '
exclaimed the girl. ' You are only fifty.'

Well, well, that is not old age for some
men, I allow.'

Dear father, it ought to be old age for no
one,' said Diana quickly. 'People so often
become what they get into the habit of thinking
that they are, it seems to me. If you
would only begin to think that you are still
young you would find yourself growing
younger every day.'

Ah, possibly, my dear, possibly,' replied
the Eector gently. ' You have said that tome
before.'

Yes, I have said it ; but what is the use
of saying it when you won't attend to me ? '
returned Diana promptly. ' You are soc

2

awfully self willed, you know; you go your
own way, and nothing I say makes any impression
on you.'

My dear child I ' ejaculated the good man
in mild amazement.

I say so many things that you never take
the slightest heed of.'

Not many, I think, Di ; not many.'

Now, when you say things I always take
heed of them.'

'Do you, my dear?' (But it seemed to
Mr. Fielding that he had never been aware of
this.)

Why, of course I do ! I am always
listening to what people say, and trying to
learn from them. At my age it would be
unnatural not to do that. Only, I must say,'
allowed this frank young woman after a
moment's pause, 'that in a general way I find
I learn very little. People are so silly — and
prejudiced — and narrow-minded — and stupid,

for the most part. Of course I don't mean
that soit are, dear,' in hasty explanation.
You are a Solomon compared with most of
them.'

I wouldn't speak in this way, Di, if I
were you ; indeed I wouldn't,' said the Eector
earnestly. 'It doesn't sound very modest,
my dear, and I don't think it is very just.
We are all ignorant and prejudiced, no
doubt; but it doesn't become you to judge
your neighbours, Di. It isn't right.'

'Well, then, I won't,' returned Diana
instantly. ' I like my neighbours, such as
there are of them, well enough. I only mean
to say that I don't find them wise. I should
like to live with people who were ten times
wiser than myself.'

'Should you, my dear, do you think?*
asked the Rector dubiously. And then something
like the shadow of a smile came to his
lips. 'I am afraid that if you lived with

people who were so very wise you — you
would find yourself thrown a good deal into
the background, Di.'

'Well, that wouldn't matter,' replied
Diana, half defiantly.

But it was noticeable that after this she
did not pursue the subject, but began at once
to speak of something else.

CHAPTEE II

HE children had been doing lessons
^ with their mother, but two of them
were glueing their faces to the
glass of the parlour window as the Eector and
Diana came in from the garden, and attracting
attention to themselves by beating with their
hands against the panes.

Poor little chicks, they ought to be in
the fresh air,' said Diana. ' I'll get Susan tolet
them out,' and she went forthwith into
the room where Mrs. Yielding, flushed and
weary, was instilling the first principles of
grammar into the mind of her son Dick.

As she opened the door it was as if a
breath of the west wind had come in. There
was an immediate stir and movement, a lifting
up of tired heads, a quickening of voices that
had been dull and listless a moment before.
'Oh, Di ! ' they cried joyfully, two of them ina
breath, and the pair of watchers at the
window made a leap to her side.

'Is school over, Susan?' Diana asked.
I am sure it is, or at any rate it ought to be.
You look as if you were all baked ; and the
sun is shining, and it is so sweet out-of-doors.'

Yes, we've done all our lessons — Silly
and I,' cried a little maid shrilly. 'We've
quite done, except Dick.'

But Dick has not learnt his grammar ; he
has been such an idle boy,' said Mrs. Fielding
in a tired voice.

'The little scamp! Make him come tome,'
exclaimed Diana briskly ; and in another
moment she had taken the Wearied woman's

place, and the recalcitrant Dick was standing
between her knees.

Oh, you wicked noun ! ' said Diana,
looking him steadily in the face as soon as
this move had been accomplished.

Such a form of address had never been
directed towards Dick before, and it had a
painful effect upon him. He gazed at his
sister for a moment, and then lifted up his
voice and howled.

I'm not a noun ! ' he denied indignantly.

You're — not — a — noun ! ' repeated Diana
slowly. She surveyed him with amazement.
Then what in the world are you ? '

You shan't call me names ! ' sobbed
Dick. ' I'm — I'm not different from other
people ! '

Well, I should say you were ; very different,*
returned Diana. ' But wait a moment'
(for Milly and Kate were tittering) —
we won't have our lesson till the other

nouns have gone away. Shall we ask them
to go ? '

I don't know what you mean,' muttered
Dick sullenly.

A spark came into Diana's eyes ; she took
the boy by his two shoulders. ' You know
what I mean perfectly well. I say — shall we
ask the other nouns to go away ? Now,
quick — yes or no ? '

Yes ! ' cried Dick precipitately, with a
little shriek.

And then the room was speedily cleared,
and Dick and his tasks tress were left together.


They joined Kate and Milly out-of-doors
in ten minutes, Dick a little subdued, Diana
radiant. Mrs. Fielding had gone to lie down
and rest. ' I wish I could teach those children
instead of you,' Diana had often said to
her step-mother ; but gentle little Mrs. Fielding
had been a governess before her marriage,

and had a system of education (which Diana
certainly had not), and preferred — perhaps
wisely — to keep the instruction of her offspring
in her own hands.

There are so many things I can't do, but
I can do that,' she would say, ' and, dear Di,
if you undertook to do it you would hate it
so ; ' which was so true a statement that
Diana never could deny it. For, in truth, the
girl loathed the very thought of teaching.
She could come to her step-mother's rescue
now and then, as she had done to-day, and
take a rebellious pupil swiftly and briskly in
hand, or clear the overcharged atmosphere
of the school-room with a few fresh breezy
words ; but nothing short of dire necessity
could have made her devote herself day after
day to Milly's and Kate's and Dick's instruction
as their patient mother did. ' The most
heroically patient of women,' Diana used to
call her, half tenderly, but half wonderingly

and not admiringly too. For patience was
not a virtue that at this time of her life
appealed to Diana in any supreme degree.

She was a splendid playfellow, the children
used to think — that is to say, when she was
really in a mood to play. There was no one
like her then — so strong, so bright, so entertaining,
so quick in invention, so clever in
story-telling. But — as they only too well
knew — she was sometimes not in the mood to
play at all ; and then, if they urged her too
much, or presumed upon her usual good-nature,
it was possible that consequences
might ensue of a sort to leave a mark upon
their memory. She was the kindest of
sisters, but yet not a sister with whom they
could take unlimited liberties. Even to Kate
and Milly and Dick she was a sovereign in
whose presence they had to bear themselves
circumspectly.

It was only March, but, as Mr. Fielding

had said, it was very mild. He had himself
been sitting with his study window open ; the
trees were budding in the sunshine ; the sky
was blue, almost without a cloud. ' It is like
summer,' little Kate said.

But Diana shook her head. ' Ah, my
dear, it will be a long time yet before summer,'
she replied, with the wisdom that
befitted her years.

She walked up and down one of the gravel
walks, and told Milly and Kate a fairy story.
The children each held her by a hand. Dick's
feelings being still a little ruffled, he had withdrawn
to seek entertainment for himself in
solitude.

You might tell us a fairy story to-day,
as Dick has gone off,' Milly had said. Ina
general way Dick objected to these recitations
as unworthy of a rational understanding
; but it is well to seize a fleeting
opportunity.

Oh yes ! tell us a fairy story to-day ! '
cried little Late.

So they walked up and down in the sunshine,
and Diana told a wild and fantastic tale
to them, which delighted their young hearts,
for she had the gift — essential to good story-tellers
— of making her narrations, however
foolish, and even impossible, they might beseem
lifelike as she told them ; and so Kate
and Milly thrilled as they listened, and their
eyes grew as round as saucers ; and, for the
moment, they believed every word their sister
spoke — until the end came, and she finished
with a clap of her hands.

And so the bubble burst,' she said, ' and
they all went off in smoke.'

What bubble burst ? ' cried Milly precipitately
upon that, and she fiercely knitted
her brows in a desperate attempt to comprehend.


The bubble, my dear,' said Diana coolly.

But you weren't talking of any bubble ! '
exclaimed Milly.

And who went off in smoke ? ' demanded
Kate, wide-eyed. ' Di, I don't understand ! '

Of course you don't,' said Diana composedly.
' Nobody ought ever to understand
fairy stories. The less you understand them
the better they are.'

Oh ! ' ejaculated Milly and Kate thoughtfully.


Judged by this standard, they felt that
their sister's story must be very good indeed,
for it had left their brains quite in a whirl.

'Well, it was very nice,' said Milly
dubiously after a moment or two's silence,
and I think perhaps if we were to hear it

over gamut

at this suggestion Diana uncompromisingly
shook her head.

No, no ; you will never hear it again,
Milly,' she said ; ' never in this world. It is

gone now for ever, like yesterday, or last
year, or twelve o'clock. It was twelve
o'clock an hour ago, and now it is going to
strike one, and we have all got our faces and
hands to wash. Why, the dinner-bell will
ring before we know where we are ! Start off,
chicks, and see who will get to the house
first.'

And then, without waiting another moment,
Diana began to run, and ran so fast
that she outstripped both the children in the
race by half a dozen seconds at the least.

4>

HE days were still short, so the Eector
and Diana started on their 'walk
pretty early in the afternoon.

I will go with you to Mrs. Potter's door
and then you can go in, and I will come back
by myself,' Diana said ; and Mr. Fielding
assented, and that programme was carried
out.

It was a pleasant walk by meadow paths,
and over the brow of a hill, where the gorse
was bursting into flower, and heather and
bracken grew deep in summer time. Diana
loved this fair country in the midst of which
she lived ; its hills and valleys, its woods and

VOL. I. D

streams, were all dear to her. She had been
born in the midst of it, and had never known
another home.

Yet it was but a small contracted place,
she sometimes felt, for, being full of youth
and ardour, she had her ambitions too — her
longings for a wider sphere — her dissatisfaction
with the narrowness and poverty of her
home, its often dull routine, its necessary
strict economies. ' Ah, if we were not so
poor ! ' she often thought ; ' if we could but go
away sometimes, and see fresh people and
places — or if there were more people to make
friends of here ! ' For indeed the girl had no
society at all ; there was no such thing as
society in Hettlestowe. It was nothing buta
little village amongst the Sussex hills, very
pretty, very primitive, very dull. There was
a resident doctor, with an active wife and
half a dozen children, between whose family
and the family at the Eectory something

approaching to an intimacy was kept up,
but of other acquaintances, in anything Hke
her own position, Diana, so far as her daily
life went, had none. No doubt there were
neighbouring clergymen, but they lived three
or four or six miles away ; there was one
great house, too, in the neighbourhood, round
which Diana's imagination had always clung
in a large degree ; but its owner was a minor,
and lived elsewhere, and though in former
years the Eector himself had often crossed
its portal and dined within its august walls,
since Diana had emerged from childhood the
great place had known no life within it except
the life of the old housekeeper, who kept the
unused rooms in order.

It was a sad pity, the girl often thought.
It was a sad pity, she was thinking to-day,
as, after having parted from her father at
the objectionable Mrs. Potter's door, she

D 2

was wending her way home alone, with the
chimneys of the big house visible through the
leafless trees. And perhaps it was because
she was so musing that, as she was crossing
a stile too carelessly, her gown caught
suddenly on a rail and got a fearful rent.
Such a rent that she had to sit down on the
grass and cobble it up with pins.

'Oh dear!' she ejaculated mournfully, as
she looked at the damage she had done. It
was her daily gown, a serviceable woollen
garment that she would have to wear for
months to come, or do without a gown at all.
'And now it will never look decent again,
she thought lugubriously, ' unless I should
take an amount of trouble with it that I
could never have patience for. But it isn't
worth that. And yet, it is only the beginning
of March, and I shall have to wear it
till June at least. Oh dear, there is no help
for me ! I must take all the skirt to pieces,

and stitch away at it for hours, and it will bea
chance if even then '

But Diana's sentence at this point broke
abruptly off, and she gave a start and bundled
her gown together, for some one, who had
come towards her unperceived, suddenly
jumped the stile, and alighted almost at her
feet.

He was a light, nimble, clerical person,
very young, and apparently very bashful,
for at the unexpected sight of Diana he
blushed crimson.

Why — Miss Fielding ! Oh, dear me ! '
he ejaculated.

I have just been tearing my gown,' said
Diana briefly. ' I am sorry to have startled
you. If I had thought that anybody was
likely to come, 1 wouldn't have sat down just
here. But so few people ever come.'

I am sure I am most happy. I am only
too delighted. Oh, pray don't speak about

having startled me,' exclaimed the young
man confusedly, but with the light of joy
beaming in his eyes.

/ am not delighted at all,' returned Diana
curtly. ' I am in about as bad a temper as
I can be. You don't happen, I suppose, to
have any pins about you, Mr. Stapleton ? '

P-ins ? K-no ; I am afraid not,' said Mr.
Stapleton anxiously. ' I wish I had. You —
have met with an accident ? ' in a tone of
tender concern.

My gown has,' corrected Diana. ' A
horrible accident. But don't let me detain
you. I am pinning it up.'

I wish I could help you,' said the young
man with warmth.

Well, sou can't, you know,' the girl
retorted. ' I should have been glad of two
or three pins — but you haven't got them.'

No ' — With a sigh — ' most unfortunately.'

Then go on, please, and don't mind me.'

'Go on ? Oh no ; don't tell me to go on,
cried Mr. Stapleton. ' Are we not both going
the same way ? '

Yes — but I am not ready yet.'

Then let me wait for you. I shall be
delighted to wait. And — I might help you
perhaps at the other stile.'

Now, that's nonsense 1 ' said Diana sharply.
You can wait for me, of course, if you like ;
but as for talking as if you thought I
couldn't get over a stile by myself, just because
there was a stupid nail in this one that
caught my gown — why, that's absurd. I
can get over every stile in the country.'

The young man gave a little nervous
laugh.

I dare say you can. I beg your pardon,'
he said meekly. ' I only meant '

You meant to be very kind, I am sure,'
interrupted Diana, with more civility ; ' and
I am cross because I have torn my gown, and

it will take me such a time to mend it ; and
I can't bear mending, — either gowns or anything
else. But there — I have pinned it
together now, and I won't keep you waiting
any longer.'

And then she sighed and rose up, and
looked at her skirts and shook them ; and
Mr. Stapleton looked at her skirts too, with a
great deal of sympathy.

What a pity to have torn it ! Such
a pretty dress ! ' he said softly. ' And wdiat
now do they call this sort of material ? ' and
he put his head appreciatively at one side ashe
gazed at it.

Goodness knows ! ' said Diana shortly.
/ don't call it anything except my green
stuff gown.'

Ah ! ' murmured Mr. Stapleton. ' That
is a nice simple name ; and simple names are
always best. Simple names, and simple
people. I often think. Miss Fielding, that I

have a great deal to be thankful for m having
had my lot cast, as it has been, in a peaceful
country parish.'

Do you ? ' said Diana dubiously. ' Well
I don't know. These country parishes
are sleepy places, and yours, I should say,
was decidedly worse even than ours. If I
were a young man, it seems to me, I should
certainly like something more stirring.
Indeed, if I were a young man I doubt
if I should want to be a clergyman at
all.'

No ? ' replied Mr. Stapleton wonderingly.
He paused for a moment : this seemed an
occasion that demanded a mild rebuke. ' Yet
what nobler profession could you find ? '

I should like to be a soldier,' said Diana
unabashed.

And is not a clergyman a soldier ? ' asked
Mr. Stapleton. There was a flavour of reproach
in the young man's tone : he looked

at his companion with a sort of dignity, and
yet with a touch of wistfulness too.

Well, if you come to that,' Diana retorted,
you may say, are not all Christians soldiers ?
Of course, we ought to be, but some of us,
I am afraid, are not very much like it.'

And some amongst those who are professed
Christian soldiers — I fear you mean to
imply that you think they are often not very
much like it either ? ' said Mr. Stapleton.
And then he sighed.

Well, you would allow that yourself,'
replied Diana. ' I think clergymen as a race
are very good people, but you know it is only
one here and there who stands out above the
common run. Especially in the country,'
said this unsparing young woman. ' What is
there in a little country village to stir men upto
be heroes ? It is different in great towns.
If I were a clergyman at all I would work in
London.'

'Would you?' asked Mr. Stapleton sorrowfully.
' And I have been congratulating
myself on having been placed here — away
from worldly temptations.'

One may be tempted by other things
than the world,' said Diana half aloud.

True — that is very true,' assented Mr.
Stapleton eagerly. ' The devil, the world,
and the flesh,' he murmured. And then he
sighed again.

'And the devil and the flesh bother us
in most places, I imagine,' said Diana.

They do indeed, they do indeed ! ' assented
the young clergyman fervently. ' At
least I speak for myself, — though there are
some of whom it is hard to believe that they
can ever have been tempted.' And then he
gave a hurried look askance at Miss Fielding,
and blushed very much.

H — m ! ' said Diana dubiously. ' I don't
think I ever myself came across any of these

saintly people. My acquaintances, I am afraid,
are all very open to temptation. But perhaps
your parishioners are better than ours ? '

Oh no ! — oh dear no ! ' cried Mr. Stapleton
hurriedly. ' Quite the reverse, I— I was
not thinking of my own parish. I fear there
are not many characters there of the kind I
meant.'

There are not many anywhere, I should
say,' returned Diana bluntly, ' and I don't
know that I should care much for them if
there were. Perfection is very insipid. It is
their faults quite as much as their virtues
that make people interesting.'

Do you think so ? Oh, really ! Ahem ! '
said Mr. Stapleton. As a clergyman he felt
again that he should not let such remarks
pass without some protest, and yet his natural
man shrank from protesting against anything
that this special woman chose to express. He
was tempted to hold his peace, and, believing

as he did that it was his duty to speak, it was
something to his credit that he resisted that
temptation.

Yet we ought surely all of us to seek
after perfection,' he said with solemnity, after
a moment or two's silence. ' You cannot have
any doubt that that should be the daily aim
of our lives — the object that we all '

I declare,' interrupted Diana in a tone of
the liveliest interest, ' there is a butterfly on
your coat ! Just think of that ! A little
yellow butterfly in March. Please stand still
just for two or three moments and let me look
at him.'

And she dropped suddenly behind the
young man, as if quite unconscious that she
had broken in upon his earnest speech, and
began intently to examine the insect on his
back, while he stood motionless, as she had
requested, — feeling very foolish.

Oh, he is so pretty ! ' she murmured with

unction. ' Such a lovely saffron colour ! I
should like to get him on my finger, just to
show you. Don't move now for another
moment. Ah, he's gone ! What a pity ! '
and her voice took a tone of the deepest
regret.

It was nothing, I imagine, but the commonest
sort of butterfly,' said Mr. Stapleton
with some slight asperity. (If Miss Fielding
had ruffled his temper it was perhaps not
quite to be wondered at.)

But Diana shook her head. ' I am not so
sure of that,' she declared coolly. ' He may
not have belonged to any very rare species,
but he was very beautiful ; and certainly too
he was very peculiar, to be flying about in
March. Are you fond of natural history ? '

I am sorry to say,' replied Mr. Stapleton
stiffly, ' that that is a study I have had no
time to pursue.'

Ah, and / have had plenty of time, and

yet I have never pursued it either,' replied
Diana lightly. ' But I always think I may
some day. It is so wonderfully interesting —
isn't it? All about worms, for instance. I
think worms are delightful. And ants.
Doesn't Sir John Lubbock write about ants
charmingly ? '

'He records some wonderful facts about
them, certainly,' said Mr. Stapleton.

Yes — and he tells them so amusingly —
that is what I like. I can never remember
things if they are told me in a dull way. So
much lies in the way of saying or doing a
thing, doesn't it ? Mr. Stapleton, did you
ever hear any great man preach ? '

Any great man ? ' The question seemed
rather to take the young clergyman aback.
I — oh — well, I hardly know ; I have heard
many most excellent men.'

Oh, of course,' said Diana. ' I should hope
you had. But a man may be excellence itself

and yet not much of a hand at preaching. If
I were a clergyman I wouldn't miss any opportunity
of hearing great sermons — or reading
them, if there should be none to hear — and I
am afraid there are not many. It would be
such a help to keep from preaching platitudes,
wouldn't it ? '

Do you think so ? ' the j^oung man asked
rather wistfully. The irritation had gone
out of his tone, but his face had flushed at
Diana's last words.

Yes,' she replied quietly, ' I think it
would. Of course it wouldn't give ordinary
men the power of becoming great preachers,
but it would keep them from falling into
some of the faults that they fall into now.
That way they have of stringing platitudes
together above all. When one thinks of all
the sermons that only make one yawn, it
seems to' me little wonder that people fight
shy of church-going. — But I mustn't take you

out of your way, Mr. Stapleton,' and the
young lady abruptly stopped. ' You turn off
here, don't you? — and I am going home.
Well, good-bye.'

She put out her hand, but her companion
huno^ back from taking it.

I would gladly go a little farther with
you if you would let me,' he said with
earnestness. 'You have started a very
interesting subject. There is a great deal to
be said upon it. Pray let me walk on with
you for a few moments longer.'

What — and go on talking about sermons
? ' exclaimed Diana. ' Oh, there is
nothing more about them that I want to say.
I am rather sick of sermons, really. I
should think that clergymen's daughters
generally were. And you have a long Away
to go, I know, so don't let me lengthen your
walk. Good-bye again,' and she proffered
him her hand a second time,

VOL. I. E

I — I had been thinking of coming over
to see Mr. Fielding some day — some evening
perhaps, before long,' said the young man
hesitatingly.

Oh, very well. I will tell papa so,'
replied Diana with promptitude.

Mr. Stapleton gave a wistful momentary
glance into her face. Perhaps the poor
young man had hoped that his speech would
have won some more cordial response from
her, — an invitation possibly to come on some
special evening ; but she made her brief
answer and said no more, and with an inward
sigh he touched her hand, and raised his hat,
and turned away.

And then she resumed her walk home ; and
as she resumed it, she shrugged her shoulders.

He is a goose,' she said to herself concisely.
' A weak goose. He would make me
ill if I had much to do with him. And yet
he is very well-meaning, too,' she added more
mercifully after a few moments' meditation.

and I dare say I might like him well enough
if he only would not take it into his head to
like me. Oh dear, I am glad he has gone !
What an awful thing life would be if one had
Mr. Stapleton always at one's side ! '

And the girl began to laugh, and went
briskly down the hill with her quick springy
step, so light of heart and untouched in feeling
that she had scarcely a thought of either
pity or kindness to give to the man from
whom she had just parted. His sentiment
for her was only something absurd in her
eyes ; she Alas so conscious of his weakness
in comparison with her strength ; she was, to
tell the truth, so contemptuous of him.

And yet Ashen, an hour or two later, she
told her father that she had met Mr. Stapleton,
and that he was coming some evening
soon to the Eectory, with something like
remorse for her scorn of him, she announced
the impending visit without a word of ridicule.

He said he wanted to come soon and
have a talk with you. I suppose he gets
very few people in St. John's to talk to. I
should think, papa, that St. John's was a
dreadfully dull parish,' she said.

Well, it is a small parish, my dear, and
a quiet enough one,' the Eector replied, ' but
there is as much society in it, I should say, as
we have got here. If he feels the place dull,
Mr. Stapleton should get himself a wife.'

So he should ! I wish he would set
about it,' exclaimed Diana with fervour.
Only there is nobody near at hand, I am
afraid, who would do.'

Oh, if he took the matter up he would
soon find some one who would do,' said Mr.
Fielding hopefully. ' Wives are not so hard
to light on.'

And, in truth, in saying this the Eector
spoke from experience.

CHAPTEE IV

E. FIELDING'S present wife was nota
woman of strongly marked character,
nor had her antecedents
before she married her husband been noticeable
in the slightest degree. She was simply
the daughter of a small country lawyer. But
the first Mrs. Fielding had come of a good
family, and the Eector's marriage with lier
had been the one bold act, and the one morsel
of romance, that had given mark and colour
to his otherwise uneventful life. For he lead
fallen in love with her when lie was a girl of
eighteen, and he was her brother's tutor ; and
when their love had been discovered and disallowed,

in a moment of wild courage, at the
remembrance of which he had never ceased
to marvel and almost to shudder through all
the years of his life that had passed since, he
had run away with her, and made her his
wife. Possibly it had been the lady who had
incited him to the doing of this astonishing
deed, — but as to that one can only say that
he was a timid scrupulous man, and she a
romantic little woman, who in those untried
days believed, in her simple girlish faith, that
the world was well lost for love. Perhaps she
came to think differently as years went on, and
poverty and sickness knocked at the door,
and her father continued steadily to refuse
her either forgiveness or help. But she did
not live very long either to repent or suffer,
for when Diana, her only child, was five years
old, the poor young mother, out of whose
eyes the light and hope had faded long before,
laid down her burden and died.

During the six years that they had spent
together, her husband had only held a curacy
in a country town, and it was not till after his
wife's death that he was presented to the small
living of Hettlestowe, a preferment that came,
as he sadly felt, too late. Yet, in site of these
regrets, after a time he settled down to his
slightly improved fortunes with very considerable
satisfaction, and preached his sermons
to his new flock, and visited his poor, and
educated his daughter, and led altogether a
serene and quietly happy life. And then,
when Diana was twelve, to the surprise of
everybody, and possibly to his own amazement
as well, he married again.

It was, perhaps, rather a foolish thing todo,
for the new wife he chose was only a
simple girl of one-ands twenty, and, therefore,
by no means the sort of person to be of any
use in the training of Diana. Indeed, so far
from being trained by her, Diana, as soon as

she had recovered from the shock of her
father's marriage, fell rather to training her
step-mother, and even, by dint of natural force
of character, succeeded as time went on very
considerably in that work, for the lawyer's
daughter was a gentle, pliable, timid young
woman, quite incapable of asserting herself,
or exercising authority or influence over anybody,
and Diana, even at the age of twelve,
had already begun to display her masterful
character in quite an unmistakable way.

So the girl set about ruling her father's
new wife, and Mrs. Fielding meekly submitted
to her rule, and indeed submitted not only
meekly but even gratefully after a time ; for
in truth Diana, with all her strength and
wilfulness, was a kindly and lovable young
creature, and if she queened it over her stepmother
(as it must be allowed that she did) yet
at least did her queening in such a fashion
that the gentle woman over whom she lorded

it soon grew to love and trust her with her
whole heart. And then, when presently
children came, Diana was very good to those
young creatures. By the time that three of
them were born she had grown almost into
womanhood, and her brightness and energy
and splendid health made her their best and
most delightful companion and playmate.
She had them well in hand, too, and exacted
obedience from them and obtained it, as
neither their father nor mother could ever
do.

You never make them afraid of you,'
she would say to Mrs. Fielding reprovingly.
Now I make them shake in their shoes if
they think of me when they are at their
tricks, and it seems to me that that plan
answers. Why don't you try it too, instead
of throwing yourself always at their feet, and
letting them trample on you ? They don't
love you the better because you let them

trample on you, ygu know. They are ungrateful
little scamps, and you can't win their
hearts by only serving them ; you would win
them more if you sometimes turned round on
them, and boxed their ears, and gave it to
them soundly. They would begin to think
something of you then. But they will never
think much of you as long as you go on letting
them wind you round their little fingers.'
All which sage remarks, no doubt, were very
true, only unhappily Mrs. Fielding was not of
a nature to make it possible for her to profit
by them.

I only wish I could manage the children as
you do, dear, — but I am so bad at managing
anybody,' she would merely reply to her stepdaughter's
harangues with meek humility, and
all Diana's eloquence could hardly win anymore
satisfactory response from her.

The poor woman's supineness and timidity
used to try Diana a good deal at times, and

would have tried her stilL more if it had not
been for the fine power that the girl possessed
of throwing aside the smaller worries of life,
and refusing to give them the power to vex
her. With her grand health and strength
and buoyancy of nature, it was so easy for her
to do what weaker people would break down
in attempting.

I wonder who you take after, child,' her
father sometimes said to her, ' for you are not
like your mother, and you are not like me.'

There was a portrait of a lady that used to
hang on the staircase at your grandfather's,'
he said to her once, ' and I have thought at
times that you have a curious resemblance toit
— but I don't know; it may be only fancy.
She was Sir Henry's aunt if I recollect rightly :
that would make her your great-grandcourt,
my dear. It was a full-length portrait, and a
V very fine one ; or at least I used to think it
fine — but I was young in those days, and I

exaggerated its merits, I dare say. It is something
in your eyes, Di, that brings back the
thought of that picture to me.'

I should like to see it,' said Diana
quickly.

She meditated for a few moments, and
then, ' I should like to see that house and all
the things in it,' she added with warmth. ' It
seems so unnatural to know nothing of the
place in which mamma lived — so unnatural and
wretched never to have seen one of her people.'

The Eector sighed. ' It is unnatural, my
dear,' he assented, ' but what can we do ?
What can we even say, Di ? I was in fault —
of course I know that now, and your grandfather
is never likely to forgive me. Possibly,
if your dear mother had lived, things might
have been different — but it is hard to say. He
was a very hot-tempered, strong-willed man.'

I wonder if he is as hot-tempered still,'
Diana said thoughtfully after a little silence.

Ah, my dear,' answered the Eector, ' that
is a thing we are never likely to know.'

And then they said no more, but Diana
often afterwards thought of the portrait that her
father had said she resembled, and felt a strange
persistent interest in and curiosity about it.

I should like to see my eyes in that dead
woman's,' she would think. ' It would be
strange, but it would please me ; it would
give me a feeling of belonging to those
generations that have passed away. I daresay
it is foolish to set store upon one's
ancestors, when most likely they were nothing
very good or very great ; but yet I do
somehow think that it would bring my heart
to my lips to see some of their pictures and to
feel that their blood runs in my veins.' And
then the girl's heart would beat a little in
anticipation of that emotion — which, except in
such anticipation, she was so little likely ever
to experience.

Upon the whole, her life was not an idle
one. She had a good deal of work to do, and
she did it with no small energy and willingness.
She had the children to amuse and manage :
she had her father and her step-mother to
look after — and to rule: she had a large
part of the business of the parish in one
way or another upon her shoulders. That
is to say, she took it on her shoulders in her
high-handed fashion, making the concerns of
half the people in the village her concerns, —
instructing them, rebuking them, consoling
them, and helping them in all their needs
and all their troubles with a readiness, a
swiftness, and a bright energy that made her
presence and her aid like the presence and
the aid of sunshine.

She's a deal more comfort nor ever the
Eector is,' the old people used to say ; and,
though no doubt her energy afflicted them at
times, upon the whole they gave her this

praise from their hearts. The Eector was a
shy and timid man : they never felt prompted
to open their hearts to him as they did to
Diana.

It was a pleasant sight to see her walking
down the village street, with her springy
step, her ready smile, her bright young eyes
on the alert. If she was a terror to evil-doers
she was often a joy and a refreshment to those
who did not do evil. She would go to the
cottages and sit chatting with the old grandmothers
by their fires ; she would alternately
lecture the children and tell stories to them ;
she would whip her thimble from her pocket,
and take some bit of darning or other mending
from a tired mother's hand and stitch at it for
her. She was a little too imperious perhaps
in all her ways, but yet these simple country
folk forgave her her imperiousness for the
sake of the brightness that she brought into
their dull lives. She stirred them up : her

visits for a few moments quickened the blood
in their slow veins.

We'll miss you sorely, Miss Diana,' one of
the women said to her one day, ' when you
go away to a home of your own.'

But I am not going to any home of my
own,' the girl answered to this speech, with a
laugh and a blush. ' Where should I go to ?
You are likely to have me here all your lives '

And in truth she thought this ; she did not
merely say it with her lips. What likelihood
was there that, leading the secluded life she
did, she should ever marry and go away?
She was two-and-twenty, and she had never
yet had a lover, except the mild and gentle
curate from St. John's. How, indeed, could
she, when she knew no creature who could
take that character upon him ? — not one soul
in the whole parish whose social position and
freedom from existing ties could make his
approach to her as a lover possible ? Her

single admirer in the wide world, so far (to
lier knowledge), was Mr. Stapleton, and as
for avoiding old maidenhood by marrying
Mr. Stapleton, the idea of taking such a
course as that would have filled Diana with
inextinguishable scorn.

And yet she did not dislike the modest
and amiable young man ; in a way she even
liked him, and would have taken a certain
pleasure in being kind to him, had the nature
of his feelings for her been such as to make
it possible for him to accept kindness at
her hands. But this was where, in her eyes,
his fault lay. He could not receive this
modicum of friendly consideration that she
was prepared to accord to him ; where she
offered him an inch, he hungrily desired an
ell. Nay, worse than this, for at times he
even seemed to consider the inch to he an ell,
and when she smiled on him as she might
]have smiled on any one, permitted himself to
VOL. I. F

be raised by her courtesy to a brief seventh
heaven of bliss ; a piece of folly that, as may
easily be believed, Diana resented vehemently,
and indeed for which, in her fierce maiden
independence, she had more than once made
him pay roundly enough.

She had not been very gentle to him on
that day when he met her after she had torn
her gown, nor did she treat him with very
much more suavity when, a week later, he
made his threatened appearance at the
Eectory. She was sitting with her father in
his study when he arrived, or at least when
she saw him advancing up the garden path,
with his clerical tails flying in the March
wind ; and her impulsive ejaculation at the
sight of him was of a sort that, if he could
have heard it, would have brought the colour
into his face.

Oh, I wish I had gone out ! Here's Mr.
Stapleton ! ' she exclaimed.

But why slioiild you wish you had gone
out because of Mr. Stapleton ? ' asked the
Eector, with a faint surprise.

And then Diana said not a word in reply,
but took to her heels. Perhaps her father
thought, in his innocence, that she had gone
to let their visitor in, but, as need hardly be
said, that gracious act was far from Diana's
thoughts. She fled upstairs, not to the house-door,
and did not descend again till Mr.
Stapleton was safely seated in the Eector's
sanctum ; nor indeed for the next two hours
was the curate gratified by any sight of the
face that he had trudged four weary miles
over the hills to see.

But the young man stayed to tea, and at
these two hours' end the tea bell ran«f, and
the Eector led his willing guest into the
dining-room ; and there at last he found
Diana, blooming and beautiful, though cold
and distant also as an icicle.

r 2

You must have had a stormy walk. I
wonder you cared to come so far in such a
cutting wind,' was the only address she
vouchsafed to him as she gave him her
hand.

But Mr. Stapleton was beaming with
satisfaction, and — ' Oh, I don't mind the wind.
In fact, I like it. I found the walk exceedingly
pleasant,' he fervently replied.

Still, it certainly does tire one dreadfully
to walk in the face of a very strong wind,'
Mrs. Fielding struck in. ' Don't you think it
does ? I never can do it. But then,' with a
little half-apologetic laugh, ' I am not a young
man, nor much of a walker in any weather.
Diana is the strong one in this house, you
know. It's delightful to see how much
exercise she can take.'

'That is nonsense, Susan,' said Diana
briefly ; and then, before Mr. Stapleton could
think of any apt reply to make to Mrs.

Fielding's speech, the girl had taken her seat
before the tea-tray, and was asking him how
many lumps of sugar he took.

It was an opportunity lost, and the
curate sighed inwardly over his unreadiness
as he answered ' Two.' He was often
not ready in speech ; the desire to be ready
was powerful in him, but the capacity for
swift utterance (to any purpose) very small.
So he said ' Two, if you please,' very
hurriedly, for Diana had the uplifted sugar-tongs
in her hand, and then uttered nothing
more. The spirit was working within him,
but before any result of its working came
forth the Eector struck in.

I was never a great — that is to say, a
very great — pedestrian myself,' he said, ' but
yet I have had great pleasure too in walking
in my day. To tell the truth, I should prefer
to have the help of a pony now to carry me
over the hills, if such a luxury were attainable,

as unfortunately it is not, in these hard
times. You don't keep a horse yourself, I
think, Mr. Stapleton ? '

I ? Oh no ! — oh, dear me, no ! That's
far beyond me,' cried the curate, and then
he blushed. The poor young man's whole
means of existence consisted of a stipend of
80/. a year, and how with such an income he
could ever aspire to ask the hand of Miss
Fielding was a thought that often struck
anguish into his innermost soul.

But the Eector answered kindly, ' Oh, well,
it won't be beyond you comedy, Hope. There
are prizes to be won in the Church as elsewhere,
and ' — with a laugh — ' some of us may live
to see you a bishop yet, my dear sir. You
young men ought to be ambitious ; you ought
all to try at least to set yourselves in the front
of the battle. I can't say, indeed, that I ever
did so myself — the more shame to me ; but
I sometimes think that, if I could begin life

over again, I would see if I couldn't make
another thing of it.'

You had so little ever in your own
power, father,' Diana said quietly but quickly.
You had to take the first work that offered,
and it was not your fault that it was work ina
sleepy parish. But Mr. Stapleton, I believe,
congratulates himself,' this merciless young
woman calmly went on, ' on the sleepiness of
St. John's. He likes it, he says.'

I — I only like it in a way,' cried the poor
curate, flushing up. He looked at Diana
rather piteously. ' You must not misunderstand
what I said the other day. Miss Fielding.
I meant — that is — it was one aspect of it only
that I was speaking of.'

Oh — I did misunderstand you, then. I
thought you were speaking of it altogether.
You said you were so grateful for having
been placed in St. John's,' Diana replied
indifferently.

Y-es, perhaps — oh yes, no doubt I did
say that. I confess that at the moment the
advantages of the place were most present to
my mind,' said the young man, growing very
red.

Well, and the advantages are considerable,'
struck in the Eector. ' It won't do to
forget that. You may keep your eyes open,
Mr. Stapleton, and, when you can, make a
change for the better — get into a larger
sphere, if possible, where you can mix more
with men, and find more stirring work todo
; but in the meantime don't despise your
present parish. It is a quiet, well-conducted
little place, and you may go far before you find
a better man to work with than your Vicar.'

Indeed that is true,' said Mr. . Stapleton
warmly. ' He is an excellent man — most
evangelical and God-fearing.'

A little too evangelical, I think,' murmured
Diana half aloud.

I beg your pardon ? ' cried Mr. Stapleton
quickly. ' Too evangelical, did you say ? '
And he looked at her with anxious eyes.

I don't like Low Churchmen,' said Diana
briefly.

You are lower at St. John's than we are
here ; that is all Diana means,' interposed
the Eector cheerfully. ' We are all moderate
people in this region ; there are no very great
differences amongst us ; though I must allow '
and then he began to smile — ' that Diana
would push me on a little towards Broad
Church, if she could.'

Oh, dear me, I trust not ! ' ejaculated Mr.
Stapleton.

The young man's face expressed such
pious horror that the sight of it gave Diana
a secret pleasure.

'Kingsley was a Broad Churchman,' she
said composedly.

Kingsley ? ' repeated Mr. Stapleton. ' Ah

yes ! ' and then lie sighed and shook his
head.

Don't you like him ? ' asked Diana,
with suavity.

The young man cleared his throat. ' He
had great gifts,' he said solemnly, ' great and
even noble gifts ; but if you ask me what I
think of him as a spiritual teacher, I. cannot
but say — I am bound to say — that I consider
him a dangerous guide.'

'Really?' replied Diana, and then she peeped
into Mr. Stapleton's cup. ' You are ready
for some more tea, are you not ? ' she asked
pleasantly. ' Was this sweet enough ? '

Quite sweet enough, thank you. It was
excellent,' he replied. But he looked anxious
and depressed.

Well, I agree with Diana,' said the
Eector ; ' I think Kingsley was a noble fellow.
Perhaps I don't quite endorse all his views ;
perhaps I shouldn't have the courage to do

that ; but at any rate I say that if we were all
like him we should be a good deal nearer
than I think we are now to the Kingdom of
Heaven.'

'Yes, father, that is a good speech,'
assented Diana softly.

Mr. Stapleton regarded his tea-cup
thoughtfully, and stirred the tea in it for a
few moments in silence.

'He had admirable qualities undoubtedly,'
he murmured presently ; ' I should be the
last to deny that. But, rate him as highly
as you will, you must allow that he was not
altogether orthodox.'

'And is anybody altogether orthodox?'
asked Diana.

Any body ? ' gasped the curate.

I should think you would find very few,'
said the girl. ' But fortunately there are
better things than orthodoxy.'

'Better things!' ejaculated Mr. Stapleton.

Well, well, my love, in a sense what you
say is true, no doubt,' interposed the Eector
gently. ' Yet the doctrine perhaps is rather
a dangerous one to hold, or at any rate to
promulgate. In these lax days, I fear, it
behoves the clergy, as far as possible, to stand
to their guns.'

Most assuredly ! — most assuredly,' said
Mr. Stapleton with fervour.

But what do their guns mean ? ' asked
Diana. ' If they mean narrow-minded principles,
the sooner they throw them away and
get well clear of them, the better for themselves,
and the Church, and everybody else,
I should say.'

'Oh, Miss Fielding!' murmured the young
man, with a kind of subdued anguish ; and
even the Eector shook his head, though he
shook it with a smile.

You are a revolutionist, my dear,' he
said, ' and I at my age am not over-fond of

revolutions. Perhaps I have never been very
fond of them. I have always left that kind of
thing very much to other men. And our
young friend here too, it seems, is not much
inclined to cast in his lot with the party of
progress. But come, come, Mr. Stapleton,
don't let my daughter's Radical views take
away your appetite. You will find, when you
know her better, that whatever she may say
with her lips she is sound enough at heart.'

'I do not doubt that. God forbid I should
doubt it ! ' ejaculated the young man, with
a fervour so deep and genuine that even
Diana could not smile at it, but closed her
lips suddenly, and let the half-jesting retort
that she had been about to make to what
her father had said die away unuttered.

'We will get the table cleared,' Mr.
Fielding said presently, ' and then Diana,
perhaps, will sing us a song or two.'

So the tea-things were removed, and without

adjourning to any other apartment — for
in truth the public rooms at the Eectory consisted
only of one common sitting-room and
the Eector's study — Diana sat down at the
old piano, and sang to her three listeners, till
all that was left of Mr. Stapleton's heart was
sung away. For she sang sweetly enough if
with little skill ; she had a fresh young voice,
with some liquid, clear, pathetic notes in it, that
were like a nightingale's, the poor love-lorn
gentleman thought — not knowing much about
nightingales, perhaps, or any other songsters,
whether feathered or otherwise — as indeed
Diana maliciously suggested, when, after she
had entertained her small audience for half
an hour, he tried to express some of the
feelings to her that she had aroused in his
breast.

Have you made a study of the songs of
birds, Mr. Stapleton ? I should never have
suspected you of it,' she said ; and she looked

at him with a half-mocking smile that brought
the colour to his face.

'I did not mean that I had studied the
subject. I only spoke what I felt,' he answered
quickly.

And then Diana for a moment felt
ashamed, and in her shame blushed too. For
the girl was often very daring, and went to
the verge of courtesy in her speech ; but
yet she could also be touched easily, and
brought to a quick repentance of the rude
things she said. So she blushed when Mr.
Stapleton made his gently dignified rejoinder,
and the next moment, ' Then I thank you,'
she quite gravely and kindly said, and the
beautiful bright eyes looked straight into his
for a second, sending a dart in that brief
glance right through his heart.

You mustn't thank me ; it is I who have
to thank you,' he tried to murmur gratefully ;
but it is doubtful if Diana even heard him.

Lie had made him her rapid amende for
her discourtesy, and, seeing the effect it had
produced upon him, had already regretted
that she had done it.

'The man looked at me like a dying duck,'
she broke out wrathfully to herself afterwards.
' I will never speak another civil
word to him I '

And indeed for the remainder of this
evening, at least, he won no further favour
from her, and was fain before long to take
his leave.

'A very good young man,' the Eector
said mildly when he had closed the house-door
after him. ' A little dull, perhaps, but
very well-intentioned.'

Oh dear, yes ; and, I am sure, most
gentlemanly,' echoed Mrs. Fielding.

But Diana, who was generally the first to
speak upon any subject, did not say a word.

HAT old miniature of her mother
stood always on the study mantelpiece
: a poor enough production
as a piece of art, yet pretty in its way, and
to Diana full of pathetic interest. She had
no distinct recollection of her living mother
to compare With it : she could remember
her only as a dim figure, far off in the
night of time : it was this painted likeness
alone that represented the actual woman
to her — a fair, small-featured woman, with
vivacious eyes that looked always into hers,
and seemed to return the girl's yearnings
gaze with a certain living comprehension.
VOL. I. G

'But I don't call it a good portrait of
her — I never thought it good,' the Eector
always said. ' The man who painted it tried
to make it prettier than she was (for she
was not pretty), but he failed to catch her
true expression, to my thinking. It was in
her expression that her main beauty lay.
The eyes ? Yes, the eyes are fairly like.
They were her best feature : it was in the
mouth that he failed most. This was never
her mouth at all.'

So Diana used to lay her finger over the
mouth and hide it, and then sit looking into
the bright eyes till she filled her heart with
them.

Mother, I wish you had lived ! ' she
would often murmur yearningly to herself
yearningly, but below her breath, that
the expression of her longing might never
reach to any other ears — not even to lier
father's.

Sometimes lie would get the Eector to
talk to her about his youth, and the brief
years of his first marriage ; yet not often, for
that period of his life was one upon which
the good man was generally a little reluctant
to dilate. Perhaps he felt — with reason —
that the circumstances of his first marriage
had not been altogether creditable either to
himself or to the woman he had won.

We were both very young, and we were
neither of us very wise,' he said to Diana
apologetically once. ' If we had been either
wiser or older we probably should not have
acted as we did.'

'But you fell in love With one another,'
Diana responded quickly, ' and the wisest and
most mature people do that.'

Yes, my dear, yes — but — ahem ! ' and
the Eector cleared his throat, ' there were
of course reasons that should have prevented
us, — I mean in the circumstances, I beings a

too
3

tutor in the house, and without means, and she
well, well, the less said the better, now.
At any rate, if we did wrong we suffered for
it afterwards. She suffered far above what
she deserved, God knows.'

And her father might have prevented it
all,' said Diana with indignation. ' What a
hard man he must have been ! If he had had
any love at all for her, he would have forgiven
her.'

Well, yes,' said the Eector thoughtfully.
Yes, I think he would. But he had a terribly
proud, choleric temper, and she disappointed
him — undoubtedly she disappointed him
bitterly. I am afraid we all acted wrongly,
my dear. We acted, all three of us, under
strong and passionate feeling, and that fact
takes any right away from me that I might
otherwise have had to judge him. If he was
hard to us, we must never forget that we
provoked him.'

But she was his daughter' cried Diana,
with a flash in her eyes ; ' and, if she had
provoked him a hundred times over, still he
ought to have forgiven her. You would forgive
me, father, no matter what I did.'

'Well, yes, my dear,' said the Eector
simply ; ' but I am not Sir Henry.'

And then suddenly Diana laughed, justly
perceiving that that rejoinder completely
upset her argument.

But her wrath against her grandfather
remained hot and endured persistently. He
had been cruel to her mother, and she would
not forgive his cruelty. She kept the remembrance
of it always in her mind, though she
rarely spoke of it even to her father. ' I
should like to see him, if it were only once,'
she used many a time to think (to see him,
she meant, that she might rate him soundly) ;
and she would picture this possible meeting to
herself, and, to tell the truth, would enjoy the

scene not a little. For, with the self-confidence
of youth, she believed in all simple
sincerity that she could really confound that
hot-tempered and proud old man and humble
him in the dust, if only she could but once
get speech of him. But unfortunately the
getting speech of him amongst the distant
Yorkshire hills where the old lion had this
den was a chance that was little likely to fall
her way, as she told herself often with a great
deal of regret.

Perhaps the truth was, though she might
hardly know it, that this narrow, uneventful
village life left rather too much time
on Diana's hands for thinking and imagining.
She had an active, capable, practical
brain, and there was scarcely enough in
her quiet surroundings to occupy and interest
it.

I wish we could all go somewhere, or do
something — something new and big : shouldn't

you like it, Susan ? ' she almost startled lier
quiet step-mother by suddenly demanding of
her one day. 'Just think now, if we were
all to be told that we must be of tomorrow
for Eome ! '

My dear child,' exclaimed Mrs. Fielding,
what a dreadful idea ! Eome ! I don't
want to go to Eome. Only imagine having
to get the children there ! '

Oh, / would manage the children,' cried
Diana. ' I only wish I had the chance.
And we needn't go to Eome if you would like
some other place better. There are heaps of
places. I only mean, that I do want so much
to go somewhere.'

But mild little Mrs. Fielding merely smiled
and shook her head.

Your poor father could never manage
the expense of travelling, dear,' she said, in
her gentle, matter of fact way. ' I dare say
it might be nice if he could, in some ways,

but I think we are all very well, and very
happy, as we are, Di.'

Oh yes, we are very happy,' answered
Diana quickly ; ' only there are such beautiful
places in the world '

But the people are not clean in so many
of them,' Mrs. Fielding interrupted with a
little shudder.

They are not clean in some of them, but
they are in others,' returned Diana. ' Quite
clean. And one can't have everything.'

No, one can't have everything, but it
would be awful not to have cleanness,' repeated
Mrs. Fielding. ' I don't think I could
stand that. I was once — when I was living
with the Somerville, you know, my dear —
for a couple of days in a dirty hotel in Wales,
and it made me quite ill. It was a little place,
and they put something nasty in the tea, and,
oh dear me ! the sight of the beds used to
make me shiver. I have never been in a

hotel since, and I can't say I want to go. It
seems to me so much more comfortable in
one's own house.'

You dear contented woman I ' exclaimed
Diana with a laugh.

Well, Di, T am sure you are contented
too ? ' said Mrs. Fielding. And then Diana
laughed a^^ain.

Oh yes, I am contented,' she said.

But was she.^ She asked herself that
question a moment afterwards, and sat
pondering it while her step-mother went on
talking.

She was full of faults, a high-handed,
meddlesome, quick-tempered, obstinate young
woman, not easy to deal with always, wilful
and self-confident and sometimes even overbearing,
and yet most people loved her ; lie
was a girl who, let lier shortcomings be what
they might, made sunshine where she went.
So fresh, and strong, and fair ; the old men

and women in the village used to bless her
bright face as she passed down the street ;
they lived (when the uprightness of their lives
was dubious) in mortal dread of her, as did
the girls and boys too who tore their pinafores
and trousers, and went bird-nesting when
they should be doing better things ; and yet
there were none of them, either old or young,
but held their heads a trifle the higher after
they had been greeted by a nod or a smile
from Diana. Nay, as regards the children,
even when she rated them or boxed their
ears, these acts, in the eyes at least of their
companions, seemed to bestow on them a
certain distinction, for the culprit upon whom
Miss Di ' had ' come down ' was pointed out
at school, and for the moment became a
centre of attraction.

There was certainly something humorous in
that irony of fortune which had provided that,
up to this time when she had reached the age

of two-and-twenty, the meek curate of St.
John's should be not only the sole existing
lover of such a woman as Diana, but even
the only lover she had ever had ; and perhaps
the absurdity of such a state of things
struck even herself sometimes, and roused her
to a certain anger and impatience. Not that
she was eager to be possessed of other
admirers, but that she resented the possession
of this special one. She almost felt as if his .
admiration made her ashamed — so complete
a woman as she was, and he so little of a man.
Is there nobody in his parish that Mr.
Stapleton can marry ? Why in the world
does he not find somebody, do 3'ou think, and
settle down ? ' she broke out to her step-mother
one day in a tone of irritation that to simple
Mrs. Fielding seemed almost to denote a sense
of personal injury. She looked up surprised
and half uneasy from the stocking she was
knitting.

Perhaps he doesn't want to settle down.
Why should he ? ' she said. ' He is quite a
young man yet, you know, and he has nothing
but his curate's stipend. Oh dear me, for
my part I hope he worst marry yet. There
is nothing so dreadful to me as marrying on
a wretchedly small income. That is what
your dear father and mother did, Diana,
and a sad time they had of it. No, no, I
must say I hope Mr. Stapleton won't think of
marrying before he has got a living, poor
young man.'

And then Diana was silent for a moment
or two, but after that brief pause :

'Wei,' she persisted rather doggedly, 'it
seems to me that it would be the best thin
he could do. Nothing else would steady him
so.'

Steady him, my dear ? ' Mrs. Fielding
echoed. She looked up with anxiety, and

almost with horror. ' You don't mean to say
—do you ? that he — needs steadying ? '

The girl was cross, but at this she began
to laugh.

Not in the sense you were thinking of,'
she said. ' His morals are all right, I imagine :
he doesn't drink, or swear, or brawl, that I
ever heard of: but don't you think a man
needs steadying if he wants to be kept from
making a fool of himself ? And that is what
he is doing. He is making a fool of himself —
and I hate it ! '

And with that she flounced down into a
chair and took up a newspaper, and hid her
angry face behind it ; and bewildered Mrs.
Fielding could only in her confusion form one
amazing theory to account for her disturbance
a theory that almost took her breath away
with astonishment, for the puzzled simple
soul rushed headlong to the conclusion that

Diana's indignation must proceed from
jealousy of some other woman, and that the
girl must have given her own heart into the
mild curate's keeping.

She felt quite confounded as she sat facing
her stepdaughter, and endeavouring mentally
to contemplate this surprising state of things.
Diana in love — and in love with such a man
as Mr. Stapleton ! Not but what Mr. Stapleton
was a most excellent person : no one
could be more amiable, or earnest, or well-meaning
; but regarded in the light of a mate
for Diana, even to Mrs. Fielding's eyes — not
given much to seeing things humorously —
he appeared almost ridiculous. For he was
bodily so exceedingly small to begin with : he
was not above five foot six, whereas Diana
stood five foot eight-and-a-half without her
shoes. And then as to his intellectual gifts —
Mrs. Fielding was not clever herself, but she had
at least some measure of appreciation of cleverness

in other people, and she was conscious
that Diana had more wit in her little finger
than the curate possessed in his whole person.
Was it possible that she could care for him ?
was it credible ? the good woman thought.

She sat with her knitting fallen on her
knees, and her anxious eyes fixed on the
newspaper behind which Diana had hidden
her face, till perhaps her motionless attitude
roused the girl's suspicion, for, with a sudden
movement, she dropped the screen that she
had raised between them, and — just as she
had expected — caught thq guilty woman's
uplifted eyes.

I knew you were staring at me,' she
broke out at this impatiently. 'I felt it
through the paper. Now, what in the world
is in ,your mind ? '

My dear Di, I was only — thinking,' said
Mrs. Fielding hurriedly, with the colour
flying to her face.

Yes — I see that — but I want to know
what you were thinking about.'

The poor soul picked up her knitting, and
tried to smile.

You are enough to frighten one, Di,' she
said. 'I was thinking of — various things.
Could you always tell your thoughts if you
were suddenly challenged to do it, in such a
vehement way ? '

'I dare say I wouldn't often tell them,'
Diana answered frankly. ' But then you are
not me, you know — and when I ask you to doa
thing you never refuse — and, besides, it was
of me you were thinking just now, and so I
have a right to ask what you were thinking
about.'

I don't know that I was thinking of you,'
Mrs. Fielding said feebly. She cleared her
throat, an unmistakable sign in her of embarrassment.
' If I was thinking of anybody
it was rather of poor Mr. Stapleton.'

Oh, it was of '' poor Mr. Stapleton," was
it ? ' repeated Diana mockingly. 'But, if you
were thinking of Mr. Stapleton, then what
made you stare so at me ? '

Dear child,' cried Mrs. Fielding desperately,
' I must look at something.'

'You needn't look at me if you were
thinking of him. That is what I object to.
I object to be coupled with him in any way.
He is a very good man — as good as gold — but,'
with sudden hire, ' I hate him ! Now don't
open your eyes any wider. If he were at one
end of the world and I at the other I should
regard him, no doubt, with the most perfect
Christian charity, but so long as he lives at
St. John's, and I live here, and am in danger
of meeting him every time I pass the garden
gate, why the thought of him makes me sick.
I hate to meet him, Susan ; I can't endure
meeting him. When he comes up to me with
that awful smile of satisfaction on this face it
VOL. I. H

is as much as I can do to keep from shaking
him.'

Oh, Di, my dear ! ' cried Mrs. Fielding.
But though she spoke in a shocked tone she
felt nevertheless relieved. She felt so much
relieved that she almost laughed.

Why, Di, I didn't know — I had no idea
he bothered you so,' she said. ' I couldn't
understand what you meant just now about
his getting married. It almost seemed — soli,

it was absurd ! but really for a minute '

And then all at once the guilty woman broke
off her speech, for she perceived with a shock
that Diana's eyes — eyes growing fast ablaze
with indignation — were fastened again upon
her face.

Susan ! ' said the girl, hardly more than
half aloud, but in such a tone as made the
other quake.

Oh, my dear, I didn't say I thought it ! *
she exclaimed precipitately.

But yon did think it,' said Diana. ' It
was that that yon were thinking when I
dropped the newspaper and caught you.
Susan, how could you ? '

Oh, Di, I beg your pardon ! ' cried Mrs.
Feeling abjectly ; and then she did what she
did usually in all trying circumstances — she
burst into tears.

Diana let her cry for a few moments ; but
after that her wrath subsided, and she rose
from her seat, and went and kissed her, and
laughed at her.

You silly thing ! You dear old goose ! '
she said to her by way of consolation. ' I
never saw such a woman as you are for .
One can never have the satisfaction of
getting into a fury with you, for you make
one pay so horribly dearly for it. Now, are
you going to kiss me, and say you are sorry ?
Good gracious, you ought to be ashamed of
yourself ! '

But, Di,' said Mrs. Fielding quivering,
and wiping her eyes, ' you should speak
plainly if you want people not to misunderstand
you. How can one always tell what
you mean ? I can't recollect the exact words
you used just now, but I am sure if any body
had heard them they might have been bewildered.'


No, they would not, — not if they had
known me — as you ought to do,' retorted
Diana sternly.

But the next moment she had to kiss Mrs.
Fielding again, for at this rebuke the poor
lady's lips began at once to go into fresh
trembling and pickering.

Well, that is a stupid business,' the girl
said with a sigh when she had succeeded in
consoling her step-mother for the second
time. ' I'll hold my tongue in future, and
not say anything. I do think that holding
one's tongue is nearly always best, unless, as

you say, one speaks out quite straight and
plainly. But about some sort of things it
goes so against the grain to speak out plainly.'

Of course, Di, of course,' murmured Mrs.
Fielding penitently.

And then I did think you had seen how
he had been making a goose of himself.'

Yes, dear — and so I should, no doubt, —
only I have hardly ever seen you together at
all, you know. Not more than once or twice.'

Humph ! ' said Diana, in a tone that
meant — ' Once or twice should have been
quite enough'.

And I am — not very quick, remember,
dear,' apologetically.

You are quite as quick as you need to
be,' cried Diana with warmth ; and then she
dabbed down on her step-mother suddenly,
and kissed her again ; for in her hot temper
she scolded Mrs. Fielding sometimes, but she
would never tolerate the faintest depreciation

of lier from any other quarter. ' You are
quite as quick as anybody needs to be,' she
said, ' and I am a wicked okl spitfire ever to
say a hasty word to you. But this has been
all Mr. Staple! on's fault. See if I won't owe
him a OTudgre for it ! '

My dear Di ! ' cried Mrs. Fielding quite
horrified.

But Diana would not withdraw her declaration,
and, as ill-luck would have it, the
very same afternoon she came across the hapless
object of her wrath, who, quite unconscious
of her belligerent mood, advanced to
meet her with a beaming smile, and hurried
to his doom with a joy and eagerness that
might have touched her heart, if her heart,
owing to the events of the morning, had not
been steeled against him.

It was on the road from the village that
he saw her. She was more than a hundred
yards ahead of him, but no sooner had his eye

caught her figure than he took to his heels,
and sped towards her like a deer. He was
small and light, and ran with ease ; in a few
seconds, panting a little, he had come up with
her, and presented himself, beaming, at her
side.

I thought I could overtake you ! This is
such an — unexpected pleasure I ' he said,
and smiling all over, and glowing with his
exercise, he put out his hand.

But Diana turned a face upon him as cold
as a piece of ice.

If you are running a race,' she said, ' pray
don't lose it by stopping to speak to me.'

He thought this was a joke, and burst
out laughing. He was so happy at having
found her that he could not help being
hilarious.

Running a race ! ' he echoed joyfully.
'Oh no ! I was simply running after you. I
saw you down there, ever so far away, and '

And when you see people that you are
acquainted with,' interrupted Diana without a
smile upon her lips, ' is this the usual way in
which you bear down upon them ? '

The young man laughed a little again, but
this time there was a perceptible nervousness
in his laughter.

I beg your pardon ! ' he ejaculated
quickly. ' I — I hope I have not offended you ?
Oh no, I don't run after people generally
Perhaps just now, if I had stopped to think,
I shouldn't have dared to run after you.'

Then, the next time you see me in the
distance, do stop to think,' said Diana deliberately.


The poor young curate was struck dumb ;
the colour mounted to the roots of his hair ;
he gave one piteous glance at her ; then for
half a dozen step she followed at her side in
silence. And then suddenly he stood still.

Of course you mean me to understand

that you wish me to leave you,' he said in a
very low voice. ' I can only ask you, Miss
Fielding, most humbly, to forgive me for
having seemed to force myself upon you.'
And then he raised his hat. ' Good afternoon,'
he murmured.

Good afternoon,' replied Diana briefly,
and proceeded homewards ; and Mr. Stapleton
turned, and retraced his steps.

But, as the girl went home, angry as she
still was, she knew in her heart that she had
acted with a discourtesy that no anger could
excuse, and, even while she tried to tell herself
that she rejoiced over what she had
done, she was in truth so much ashamed of it
that the blood tingled in her veins.

I had no right to be rude to him. No
lady has ever a right to be rude,' she told
herself frankly and sharply enough, ' and he,
poor little fellow (though 1 hate him !), he
isn't, I suppose, to blame. If I had liked

him lie might have run after me, and I
shouldn't have been angry at all. Oh dear
me, I seem to have a horrible way of falling
out of the frying-pan into the fire. Now
when I see him next I imagine I shall have to
beg his pardon, and if I beg his pardon it will
make him more of a bore than ever, and it
will all have to be done over again ! '

But, nevertheless, Diana, who piqued herself
on her sense of justice (when unwearied,
that is to say, by anger, or some other purely
personal feeling), did, on the next occasion of
her meeting with Mr. Stapleton, force herself
to offer the amount of apology to him which
she conceived to be his due.

It was after about a week or so had gone
by, — a week that had been passed by the curate
in harder work than usual, and by Diana not
without some inward, though well-concealed,
dissatisfaction and irritation of spirit — for
she continued to be vexed with herself, and

vexation with herself was a condition that
she found hard to bear. So while she waited
to make her apology to Mr. Stapleton she did
not grow in charity with him, but neither on
the other hand did her intention to make that
apology cool. So far, indeed, was this from
being the case, that dien the opportunity
of making it at length presented itself, she
seized it with an alacrity that nothing but an
eager desire to escape from a disagreeable
burden could account for.

Mr. Stapleton ! ' she said, going deliberately
up to him one day in the open village
street.

He had been about to pass her, poor
young fellow, with a silent and formal bow,
but she stood still and arrested him in this
way by uttering his name; upon which,
flushing, he stood still too, and she proceeded
to make her pre-arranged speech.

Mr. Stapleton,' she repeated, and though

she tried hard to prevent it the colour
mounted into her own face too, ' I owe you an
apology. I had been put out the last time
I happened to see you, and I spoke to you
very rudely.'

Oh, pray don't mention it ! ' ejaculated
the young man hurriedly, almost below his
breath.

But I ought to mention it,' returned
Diana quickly. (Her temper, to tell the
truth, even to-day, was not of the sweetest.
She felt, indeed, horribly irritable, even while
she was forcing her lips to utter smooth
words.) ' I have been very vexed with myself,
and I ought to tell you so. The thing is
not worth explaining ' (this with almost uncontrollable
impatience), ' but, as I tell you, I
was put out that day, and so, — I have to ask
your pardon.'

Don't say that. Miss Fielding ! I can't
bear you to say that ! ' Mr. Stapleton cried.

His face had grown scarlet, and his voice
and his hips were both trembling. She gave
one glance at him, and at the sight of his
emotion she could hardly keep her wrath
down at all.

'I say it for my own satisfaction,' she
answered briefly.

And then — for she was inwardly so chafing
and quivering at having had so far to
humble herself that perhaps she felt it was
safest to trust her patience no more — she
bowed to the young man, and would have
gone on her way, if he had been wise enough
to let lier. But, unhappily for himself, he
was not. As she took a step forward he
wheeled round and set himself at her side.

Let me walk with you for one minute ; I
won't detain you. I only want to say a dozen
words,' he entreated. ' I want to tell you
how much I thank you. You can't conceive
how the rebuff you gave me last week has

disturbed me. I won't attempt to speak of
it. But now that you have condescended to
explain, and to let me understand that it was
not I who had offended you ' — his voice was
quickening and a joyful colour coming into
his face — ' I shall go home with a lightened
heart, and — and you must allow me just this

once to express my gratitude '

Oh, do be quiet ! ' interrupted Diana
sharply. ' Why in the world should you express
anything of the sort ? It is quite bad
enough for me to have had to apologise to
you ' (' Oh, pray Miss Fielding ! ' murmured
the curate agonised) ' without your making
the thing worse than it is by talking about
gratitude, and nonsense of that sort. It is
quite ridiculous. Only it was my own fault
in the beginning,' said the girl quick', ' so
I suppose I have no business to complain ;
only, for goodness' sake, let us hold our
tongues and make an end of it now.'

And then — for they were walking pretty
sharply uphill — Diana paused rather out of
breath, and with a fine colour in her cheeks.

If he would only leave her ! but he would
not. As she toiled up the hill he toiled with
her. His brief elation indeed no longer endured,
but yet he had not coolness or discretion
enough left to see that he had better go
his way. Instead of that he stuck to her like
a burr, up the long hill, and on towards the
Eectory, in an agitated silence that irritated
her more even than speech, and yet that she
made no attempt to break, fearing possibly
that if she spoke at all her temper would
get the better of her, and that she might
again utter words for which once more a
bitter retribution would be required of her.

So more than five minutes passed before
either of them opened their lips, and then,
misguided that he was, his evil genius took
possession of him, and :

This is a small matter to you,' lie all at
once broke out passionately ; ' of course I
know that, but it is not a small matter to iiie^
the pleasing or displeasing of you, I mean ;
it is like life or death to me.'

Mr. Stapleton,' said Diana, and she
stood still, and the moment was so critical
that she grew pale as she began to speak,
you have come here out of your way with
me ; take my advice and go back. Go back
before we say anything, either of us, that we
may be sorry for afterwards. What you
have said already I want to forget. Go
now.' And she quickly and almost breathlessly
put out her hand.

The poor fellow took it in silence with a
horrible humility, — with a sort of humility
that, as Diana said passionately to herself
afterwards, made him look like a whipped
hound, and the sight of which filled her with
such a mixture of pity and anger and misery

that suddenly and unreasonably the tears
flashed to her eyes, and with a great rush her
colour came again, dyeing all her fair young
face.

Why do you come and talk like this ? '
she broke out all at once, — ' and vex yourself,
and vex me ? ' There was a curious tone of
mingled pathos and indignation in her tone.
Mr. Stapleton, why do you do it ? It is so
silly, you know — and it is so useless, too. Let
us be friends again. We used to be friends,
and I used to like you, but now you bother
me, and you won't let me like you any more.
I think it is too bad,' cried the girl hotly,
when you can see — when surely you must see

that — that — that ' And then, in spite of

her, her tongue refused its office, and flushed,
and indignant, and ashamed, lie stood before
the young man, dumb and (quivering, like a
grieved and insulted goddess.

The poor fellow's heart had grown sick as

VOL. I. I

she spoke, and yet she had stirred him too,
and roused his generosity.

Miss Fielding, forgive me,' he said. ' I
ask you to forgive me with my whole heart ! '

Oh, — don't ! ' cried Diana. There came a
little break in her voice ; the grandeur of the
divinity was rapidly dying out of her ; she
looked amazingly as if she would like to cry.

It is so dreadful to me to think of having
grieved you.'

'Well, well, never mind,' she ejaculated
impatiently.

If you will indeed let us be friends again — '

Oh — of course I will,' she almost
whimpered.

Then you shall never — you shall
never ' he said.

But here his utterance failed him, and she
only remembered a good while afterwards
that the renunciation he had been upon the
point of making had remained unuttered.

Although muttered in words, however,
the chances were, she no doubt charitably
reflected, that Mr. Stapleton, being a pious
and conscientious man, had recorded it in his
heart ; and at any rate, seeing that matters
were getting comfortably settled for the
moment, the question was not one she was
disposed to concern herself about.

I think I had better wish you good-bye
now,' she merely remarked shyly after a little
silence.

Oh yes — I am detaining you ; I am very
forgetful,' he hurriedly exclaimed. And then
he took the hand that she offered him again,
with a piteous look upon his face, and wrung
it with nervous and perhaps unconscious
fervour ; and in another moment Diana was
walking on her way home alone, with her
mind in an uncomfortable whirl, and her blood
prickling in her veins.

Was she sorry? Was she angry? Was

I 2

lie vexed with herself? I am compelled to
allow that her strongest feeling for a few
moments was one of fury — a kind of blind and
impotent wrath and indignation against fate
and Mr. Stapleton. These two lead got the
better of her, as it seemed to her, poor soul,
and had made her endure a thing she hated,
and because of this the proud young heart
throbbed and burnt with a fierce and foolish
sense of indignation.

But yet after a little while she began to
think of something else than herself, and to
feel some pity for the pain she had given ;
and when the thought of the pain she had
given had once come well into her mind, she
presently fell to crying over it, like the
simplest village girl, and walked along the
country road with the tears upon her cheeks,
and a little convulsive sob rising in her throat
now and then ; all which went to prove that
the events of the afternoon had thrown her

into a disturbed condition, quite unworthy of
a heroine.

It was four o'clock, and, as ill-luck would
have it, Milly and Kate and Dick Averse running
races in the garden, as Diana opened the Rectory
gate. She had hoped to make her way
unperceived into the house, but in a moment,
with a shout, the children were upon her.

Oh, Di, I couldn't think where you were,'
cried Milly. ' Di, come and see if you can
run faster than me ! ' screamed Dick, and
pulled her skirt. ' Di, you've been crying l'
cried Kate, in a tone of the most unmitigated
amazement ; and then, with the sweet directness
and tenderness of infancy, she stood still
before Diana, and stared into her face ; and
Milly and Dick, arrested by her astonishing
announcement, stood motionless, and stared
too, with the liveliest curiosity and interest.

I am reluctant to record it, but Diana
merely uttered one brief ejaculation. ' You

little wretches ! ' was what she said through
her teeth, and then she suddenly raised her
strong right hand and brought it down with
a will on Dick's left ear, and the next moment,
as a howl of mingled pain and indignation rose
from that innocent victim, she walked straight
past the confounded group, and had reached
the house and entered it before they had any
of them recovered their breath.

What in the world did she mean by
hitting me ? ' cried Dick in indignant accents,
when she was out of sight.

I think she's mad,' said Milly bluntly.

I think somebody has been blowing her
up,' said Kate.

I wish somebody would blow her up,
and not let her come here to us in such a
temper,' muttered injured Dick.

And then, too much upset in their minds
to run races any more, they thoughtfully
followed their imperious sister into the house.

Line stood one morning by the
breakfast table, eyeing and fingering
a letter that roused her curiosity.
It was a square, thick letter, addressed in a
rather shaking hand, and sealed with a large
red seal that bore a coat of arms. Whose
arms were they? the girl wondered. She
ought to have known, but she was unconscious
of that. She looked at the seal
for a few moments, and then she turned the
letter over and studied the writing on the
face again ; and then all at once her eyes
fell on something else, and her heart suddenly

gave a great bound, and she caught her
breath, for the new thug that she had seen
was the word ' Lingley,' on the post-mark ;
and Lingley was the Yorkshire station within
a few miles of which her grandfather lived.

Had it come from him ? Was the writing
his? What could he have written about?
The girl's heart was on lier lips, as she stood
gazing — thinking — imagining she hardly knew
what.

Papa, there is a letter for you here she
said quickly, as the Eector, after a few
minutes, came into the room ; and then she put
it into his hands without uttering another word,
till the sudden change in his face as he
looked at it made the blood spring up again
in her veins.

I know who it is from. Q-pen it ! ' she
exclaimed then ; and the Eector, with a little
pink colour in his cheeks, gave one hesitating
glance at her, and opened it.

He read it throiigli without speaking. It
was not a long letter, but he read it slowly,
or it seemed so to Diana's impatience as she
stood watching him, trying to gather the
nature of its contents from the expression of
his face. Did it please him? Did it displease
him ?

He raised his head at last, and looked
again at her.

'My dear, this is from Wilmotes — from
your grandfather,' he said only half aloud.

Yes, I know,' she replied.

It is a curious letter ; but you had better
read it for yourself.'

And then he gave it to her, and she
eagerly read :

Sir, — Three-ands twenty years have passed
since I last held any communication With
you. I have no desire, in writing now, to
refer to that past time, nor to go back upon a
matter (painful and disastrous as it may have

been to me) that was settled beyond change
or remedy so long ago ; but you have a
daughter who is of my blood, and I am
growing an old man, and my object in writing
this note is to tell you that I should like to
make myself acquainted with her. I think I
have the right to say this, and to request that
you will bring her to me.

The widow of my dead son lives with
me, and to her charge you may safely entrust
your daughter for such time as her visit to me
may last. Bring her here yourself, if you
care to do so. I have no longer any wish to
retain the enmities of former years.'

Diana looked up from the letter to her
father's face with a strange look in her eyes,
half of anger, half of anticipation. Could
she have put into words the opposing emotions
that the words she had read had roused
in her, — of hope and excitement, of pride and
indignation? She stood silent and flushed,

her heart beating fast with tumultuous
thoughts.

'My dear — this takes me — aback,' said
the Eector slowly. He spoke as if his breath
were short.

'It may well do that,' Diana briefly
answered.

I never expected to hear from him again,
and, indeed, I scarcely wished it. He was a
hard man always. His harshness broke your
poor mother's heart.'

But mamma made him suffer too,' said
Diana. She spoke almost below her breath ;
even as the words left her lips she asked
herself if it was for her to defend her
grandfather at her mother's cost ; but yet she
did not recall them.

The Eector for a moment looked at her
wistfully.

I suppose she did,' he said slowly.
'You are right to remind me of that, Di. I

believe she did. We were all in fault, my
dear. But she prayed to him for his pardon,
and he would not forgive her. He loved
himself and his pride better than he loved
her. Give me the letter again. I have
hardly taken it in yet.'

Child, what are we to say to him ? ' he
asked presently in a troubled voice.

We must take time to think of that,'
Diana answered. ' We need send no reply
to-day.'

True,' he assented ; and then gave a
sigh of relief.

And we must have breakfast,' said Diana.
Here is Susan. Let us have breakfast, and
then we can talk it out.'

They talked it out when their meal was
ended. The children, bursting into the room
with their lesson-books in their arms, were
given a holiday on the spot, and turned out
of doors, to their great jubilation and amaze-merit.

' For I couldn't bring my mind to
teaching them this morning — I really couldn't,'
said Mrs. Fielding, in meek apology for this
revolutionary act. ' I feel as if I couldn't
think of anything to-day but this. Oh, Di,
it seems as if it might be the beginning of
a new life for you ! '

Do you think I want a new life ? ' the
girl asked quickly. But a blush came into
her face as she spoke ; she was conscious
already of the birth of fresh hopes within her
heart — of a hundred undefined imai?inin£fs.

Well, dear, it may be for your good,
said gentle Mrs. Fielding. ' Fm such a bad
one myself at keeping up old quarrels, and
now that Sir Henry has given you an opening
for being friends with him — it has been a
long time in coming, certainly, and I can't
say that his letter is a very nice one — but still
I do feel, seeing he is your grandfather, it
will be right for you to meet him half-way.

Don't you both think it will ? He is an old
man, as he says, and you may never have
another opportunity '

No, we shall never have another opportunity
undoubtedly,' said Diana with a laugh.
My gentle grandfather will not make this
proposal twice, you may be sure. Let us
refuse it now, and it will be war henceforward
to the knife.'

Well — is it to be war to the knife or
not, Di ? ' asked her father.

And then for a few moments they all held
their peace.

Give me till tomorrow to think,' the girl
said at last. ' I believe I know how it will
end, but let us do nothing hastily. One does
things hastily sometimes, and repents when it
is too late. I want to feel clear about this,
and I feel as yet only upset and bewildered.
With half my heart I want to defy that old
man, and with the other half I want to
forgive him and — be owned by him. Dear,

was he ever good to my mother ? ' And she
looked all at once wistfully into the Eector's
face. 'Long ago, I mean — before you ever
knew her ? '

I don't know, Di,' he said. ' He was a
man, I fancy, who always thought most of
his sons ; but I have no reason to suppose
he was not kind to her.'

Until she crossed him ? '

Yes — until she crossed him.'

I wonder — suppose I go to see him — how
he will treat me ! '

I think he must mean to treat you well,
my dear.'

Yes, but if he should only treat me well
so long as I assent to all he says, and agree
to all that he may wish me to do, and have
no individuality and no will of my own — that
won't suit me.'

I suspect it won't,' said the Eector ; and
as he said ' I suspect it won't,' his eyes gave

a twinkle.

Then — you think I had better not go ? '
asked Diana quickly ; but though she tried
to speak without expression there was a
touch of disappointment in her tone.

No, I don't say that, child,' answered Mr.
Fielding. ' I don't say it at all. You are
young and strong ; you are stronger than
your poor mother ever was — or than ever /
was. I often think that you have got a
touch of your grandfather in you, Di. Not
his pride, my dear, or his hardness, but his
spirit ; I mean — his — masterfulness.'

His — what ? ' asked Diana, for to tell the
truth the Eector's voice had sunk a little ashe
uttered his last word.

Well, Di, I said — his masterfulness,' he
repeated.

Hem ! ' murmured Diana dubiously.

There is a certain love of rule in both of
you, my dear. I find no fault with it. None,
at least, as I notice it in you for in your case

it is kept in check by other qualities — by
your sweetness of temper and warmth of
heart, my dear.'

Whereas,' said Diana, ' in grandpa you
have it along with an awful temper, and a
heart that seems to me to have been made
out of a nether millstone. I see. He must
be a fearful old man.'

No, my dear, he is not that. A proud,
strong-willed, tyrannical man you may call
him, but not bad, I hope ; not fearful,
certainly.'

Is he ugly, father ? '

'Ugly, child? No, not ugly at all.
Eather fine looking. At least, he was when
I knew him. A tall, soldierly kind of figure.'

'Perhaps I take my height from him too
then, as well as — that other thing,' said Diana.

'I dare say you do, my dear. There is
little doubt that you are in various ways more
of a Eivers than a Fielding.'

VOL. I. K

I wonder if he would like me the better
for that ! ' the girl said quickly.

He might, Di. There is no saying.'

'But I should not remind him of
mamma.'

So much the better, perhaps.'

Poor mother ! ' Diana said. She uttered
the two words very softly, and then spoke no
more for a good while. She sat and thought
while the others went on talking. There was
so much to think of — so much that troubled
and puzzled her — so much that drew her in
opposing ways. With half her heart she
wanted to accept this olive branch that was
held out to her ; with half her heart she
scorned and was indignant at it. ' If I goto
him,' she said to herself, ' I will tell him
what I think of him ; sooner or later I
certainly will do that ; but ought I to go to
him at all, or to want to go, when he treated
my poor mother as he did ? ' And she could

not answer this question to her complete
satisfaction, try as she would.

'Well, Di,' said the Eector at last, 'we
will do as you suggest — we will take till tomorrow
to consider what I am to write.
There is a great deal to be said in favour of
your accepting your grandfather's invitation,
and there is — well, there is something, at any
rate, to be said on the other side. We must
weigh it all as wee best can. And, Di, you
must not think of me in the matter, nor suppose
that I want to keep up old quarrels. I
don't do that, my dear — I don't do that. As
I have told you before, there were faults long
ago upon both sides, and in the beginning, at
any rate, they were the greatest upon your
mother's side and mine.'

But it was not so in the end,' Diana
struck in quickly. ' It is easy enough to forgive
all the rest.'

K 2

'We ought to forgive that too, if he
regrets it,' said the Eector.

And then he got on his feet, and the conference
for the moment ceased.

But it was renewed more than once before
the day ended, and it was only when the next
day came that Diana at last said :

I have been thinking of this business till
I feel as if I could think no more, and now
we must send our answer ; and it seems to me
that as we can't be sure, try as we may, of
what it will be best to do, we had better do
what, on the surface at any rate, seems the
most right, — and that is, to forgive, and to
accept what it may be a wrong thing to
refuse. So, father, what I mean to say is
that, if you will take me, I decide to go to
Wilmotes ; and, Susan, if I go, you must
give your whole heart and soul now to helping
me to brush up my clothes.'

'Oh, my dear,' cried Mrs. Fielding, 'it

won't be a case of mere brushing up. If you
go you must get some new things ; you can't
possibly do without. And even papa — I
think he ought to have a new coat.'

But the Eector at this struck in lustily.

Not a new coat, not so much as a new
neck-tie for me ! ' he cried. ' Bless you,
Susan, do you think it is I the old man wants
to see? My dear, he saw enough of me
three-and-twenty years ago to last him for
his life. No, if we are to go, buy Diana what
she ought to have, so that she may look a
little like her mother's daughter ; but I'll go
in my old coat, and my old hat, and with my
old black bag in my hand, and if Sir Henry
chooses to sneer at me for any one of them,
he may do it, my dear, and welcome, for it
will never give me a pang.'

I don't think he will sneer,' Diana said
gravely.

She looked at her father ; his coat was

shabby enough, but he wore it Hke a gentleman
; there were lines in his face, but they
were not lines set there by mean thoughts.

He must be above doing that, at any
rate,' she said, ' or he must be worse even
than I think him.'

He is above it, my dear,' the Eector
answered quietly. ' But I dare say he would
like to see his grandchild in a pretty gown ;
so Susan is right, and you must get what
you ought to have.'

And what is that, I wonder ? ' exclaimed
Diana with a laugh. ' How can I tell what
the ladies in grandpa's sphere of life think
it proper to wear ? I'll tell you what I'll do,
Susan. I'll get two new gowns ; I'll get one
to wear in the daytime, and one to wear at
night ; and if grandpa does not like them,
or thinks there are not enough of them, I'll
snap my fingers at him, and not care, for I
never bought even so much as two gowns at

once before in my life ; and as for trying to
get more, and ruining papa, I wouldn't do it
to please an emperor ! '

Well, dear,' said Mrs. Fielding ; ' two new
gowns will be very nice, and you can take the
best of those you have now as well ; and then
there will be a few other little things, you
know. But the gowns are what we must
think of first. We ought to set about getting
them at once. Oh dear, I wonder what they
should be ! '

Well, I don't know what they should be,
but I know what they will be,' replied Diana
with decision. ' I will get a dead-leaf merino
to wear in the daytime, and a black grenadine
to wear at night. I must have a black
evening gown, because black is the only thing
one can go on wearing constantly. And,
Susan, I will ask Miss Draper to get me the
skirts ready made from London. There is
a flight for you ! But great occasions breed

great deeds, and with a London-made gown
on my back surely I shall possess my soul in
peace.'

I think at any rate you will look very
nice in it,' said Mrs. Fielding gently, and
passed over the objectionable part of Diana's
speech. Diana had a way sometimes of
saying things that sounded so very odd.

So, papa, if you are content, you may
write your letter now,' said the girl after a
minute's silence.

And say that you will go, you mean ? '

Yes — say that we will go. And ' she

abruptly stopped for a minute or two, and
then the colour came to her face ; ' and, may
we be forgiven if we should be doing wrong,'
she added suddenly.

'We can hardly be doing wrong, Di,'
said the Eector gravely. ' Hardly, I think.'
And then there was a little pause. ' Tell me
what you mean, child.'

I mean that we are poor, and grandpa
is rich,' said Diana slowly, ' and we may be
persuading ourselves that it is right to forgive
and let ourselves be forgiven past because of
that — because it will be to our advantage, I
mean. And perhaps if he were poor too,
like ourselves, we would take a different view,
and say loftily then that we could never
forget what he made my mother suffer. I
only say perhaps — I don't know,' said the girl
wistfully.

My dear,' said the Eector, ' I hope we
wouldn't do that. I don't think we would.
I only feel that in deciding as we have done,
we are doing what your mother would have
wished.'

Oh, my mother — my mother was an
angel ! ' cried Diana. ' She would have fallen
down at the old tyrant's feet, I suppose, and
kissed the blacking off his boots if he would
have condescended to take her back into

favour. My mother is no example for us.
Only I suppose you mean that if it would
have made her so happy to be forgiven, we
ought to let ourselves be forgiven too, for her
sake ? Yes, and that is what I do think. I
lay awake thinking it last night for hours.
Only the worst of it is, that we never know
ourselves ; and wee do things from one motive,
and think that we are doing; them from
another ; and altogether our hearts are so
deceitful and desperately wicked that everything
seems to me in a sort of hopeless
muddle in this world.'

After enunciating which cheerful speech
Diana went to the window, and stood looking
out into the garden, with her back to the
other two.

She only kept this position, however for a
few seconds. The Eector was thoughtfully
balancing the poker in silence on his finger
when she turned quickly round again, and :

It strikes me,' she exclaimed abruptly
that we have no time to lose about those
gowns.'

'Well, Di, I will go out with you this
moment,' answered Mrs. Fielding:, g^ettincf
hastily on her feet.

Then let us put on our bonnets. And
father,' said the girl, pausing suddenly before
she left the room, ' don't close your letter till
we have read it.'

Oh no, my dear. No, certainly not,'
answered the Eector obediently.

For, you see, you must wait for our return
before you can fix a day for me to go,
and it is the dressmaker who must settle that.
Now then, Susan.'

She put her hand on her step-mother's arm
as they went away together.

Dear, I wish the new gowns were to be for
you,' she said softly, and kissed lier. ' You
never get new things : you haven't lead a new

gown since the night of time. Don't grandfathers
give their granddaughters presents
sometimes ? — little tips, I mean ? suppose
grandpa should give me one. It couldn't
be less than five pounds — could it, do you
think? If he gives me that I'll spend every
mortal shilling of it on you ! — every penny to
the last farthing ! '

Oh, Di, don't talk such nonsense ! ' cried
Mrs. Fielding laughing.

But Diana went on in the same strain :

'I get everything,' she said, ' and you get
nothing, — and you are worth ten times more
than me. I wish you were going to Wilmotes
instead of me. Should you like it ? I shall
only get into hot water there, but your sweet
face would turn that old lion into a lamb, I
believe, before join knew where you were.'

They went away and did their shopping,
and then when they returned home the Eector
showed them the draft of his letter. He had

written very briefly, but he had expressed
himself not without dignity.

Sir,' he had said, ' If you desire to see my
daughter I will bring her to you. I have no
greater desire than you tell me you have to
keep old enmities alive. For me the past has
long been buried in my wife's grave.

Diana will accompany me to your house
on this day week, should that time be convenient
to you. The length of her visit I will
leave to be determined after our arrival. I
will myself return here upon the following
day, — either leaving her behind me or bringing
her back with me, according to such
arrangement as when we meet we may think
it best to make.'

Diana read the brief note twice.

I think it is very good,' she said. ' It says
about all that is necessary, it seems to me.'

I think nothing more is necessary,'
replied the Eector.

DIANA

You wouldn't be disposed to warn him
that he is going to catch a Tartar ? '

'Are you a Tartar, Di?' Her father
laughed. ' No — if you are one, I think I will
leave him to find it out

Then I think there is nothing more to
say.'

So the Eector copied out his note, and
took it to the post.

f )^^B^tf^^^^§^@^B^"^ "^ "^^ '^^ '^^ '^^ ^^ ^^'

ipw^^Hil

CHAPTER VII

HE week that came after this was an
exciting one to Diana. She was
^ rather ashamed of her excitement,
but yet she could not control it. Was she glad
that she was going to Wilmotes ? She hardly
thought that she was glad, but she was interested
— she was absorbed — in the prospect. A
hundred times she pictured her meeting with
her grandfather — his look, his manner, his reception
of her : she tried to imagine herself
in his presence — to realise what her feeling
towards him would be. Should she hate him ?
There were times when lie thouij^lit she hated

him — there were times when a curious yearning
seemed to draw her towards him. Could
it be the mysterious tie of blood? she
wondered — that tie of which she had hitherto
known so little. Or could it be merely
the base love of wealth ? — the mere worldly
instinct that makes a rich man important tous,
and a poor man of no account.

If he had only an income of fifty pounds a
year I should not care about seeing him as I do
now,' the girl said honestly and sadly to herself.
She had her worldly side : how could she
deny it? It was not her grandfather alone
about whom she cared, and in whom she was
interested, but her grandfather's house, and his
money, and his position, — the old walls within
which her progenitors had lived for generations
— the blue blood that had flowed for centuries
in their veins. It was these things inlarge
part that Diana cared for — not the mere
fact of kinship with a man whose antecedents,

SO far as they bore on her and hers at all, had
certainly not been of a sort to arouse enthusiasm
for him in her heart. And yet the kinship
counted for something too, the girl wistfully
thought, or her heart would not be stirred
within her as it was, with this strange half-tender
anger — this strange excitement and
longing. ' I don't love him — I don't expect to
love him — I expect almost to hate him ; and
yet I feel — I feel all day long — that he belongs
to me — that he is one of my own people,' —
she went thinking a thousand times over to
herself

To the others she did not betray much of
either her thoughts or feelings. Both the
Eector and his wife were indeed deeply interested
in the visit that was so near at hand :
they talked of it and speculated about it, but
naturally — to them there was in the
personality of Sir Henry Eivers no peculiar
charm : the thought of him roused no yearn-vol.

I. L

kings in their bosoms, no feelings of wonder,
no vague emotions.

'He will find me very much changed
from what I was when he saw me last,' the
Eector said meditatively once. ' I dare say he
will think me looking old for my years. He,
I should think, must be a man of seventy-five,
or thereabouts. Yes, fully seventy-five ;
he was over fifty when I knew him, but very
likely he has worn better than I. Not but
what he has had his troubles too. Your
mother had two brothers, you know, my
dear, and they are both dead. I don't know
who the title will go to now after Sir Henry's
death. He says his son's widow lives with
him. Well, his son may have left a child.
But I never heard. It was only the eldest
son who married ; the second died young.
It was that second one who was my pupil, you
remember — a poor sickly lad — and he died
a year or two afterwards at college. I never

saw the other : he was in India when your
mother married, and I believe he never came
home.'

The two new gowns arrived before the
week's end, and Diana tried them on and
showed herself in them before the assembled
household. They all gathered in the parlour
to look at her, and the dining-table was
pushed aside that they might see her the
better, and the Eector put on his glasses that
he mif?ht lose nothing? of the show.

They make Di look grand, — like a
queen ! ' cried Dick.

No, they don't make her look like a queen.
Queens have trains,' said Milly rebukingly.

But they don't always wear their trains,'
corrected Kate.

Well, I think they are very nice, and I am
so glad,' exclaimed Susan, in her loving way.
'Of course Mrs. Eivers may have a dozen
gowns to your one, Di ; but I don't care

about that so long as what you have are fresh
and pretty. I clo think Miss Draper has done
well for you — don't sou, papa ? '

And then the Eector answered with
much simple warmth : ' Indeed I do.'

So the dresses having arrived, and. all the
other articles of Diana's toilette having been
collected and put in order, she packed her
trunk (it was an old trunk that her mother
had brought from Wilmotes three-and-twenty
years ago), and early on the morning of a
mild April day, Mr. Fielding and she set out
upon their journey.

It was a spring day, but the trees were
still bare ; only the primroses were blooming
in the hedgerows, and the birds filled the air
with song. Diana was grave and a little
moved as she kissed good-bye to Susan and
the children ; but this emotion occupied her
only for a few moments ; her heart was too
full of expectation, of hope, of excitement, to

allow her thoughts to linger long either about
the people or the place that she was leaving.

They all came to the station with her, and
saw her off. The children ran up and down
upon the platform — excited too, they hardly
knew why. As the others waited for the
train to come up, a black-coated figure
crossed the line, at sight of whom, against
her will, Diana blushed.

There is Mr. Stapleton,' said her father.

The young man, after a momentary
hesitation, came forward to where they were
all standing beside their luggage.

Are y outgoing away ? ' he nervously
asked the Eector as they shook hands.

Well, yes — for a day or two, or possibly
longer. Possibly Diana may be absent
longer,' the Eector said.

Oh — indeed !' Mr. Stapleton murmured.

He had touched Diana's hand for a
moment : as he said, ' Oh — indeed ! ' he looked

for another moment in her face with an involuntary
wistfulness. Her trunk was labelled
for York : he had seen that ; to whom
could she be going so far away ?

I — I hope you will have a pleasant
journey,' he said meekly. ' It is a very nice
time of year for travelling. But the parish
will miss you very much.'

I dare say the parish won't mind,' replied
Diana.

Oh, don't say that ! ' cried the young
man solemnly. ' If you are going away
believing that '

And then he went on speaking, but there
was a whizz in the air as the train came up,
and his voice was lost in it.

Diana had turned to Mrs. Yielding. ' Goodbye,
Susan,' she said, and kissed her, and
looked in her face a little tremulously, and
kissed her again. ' Children, good-bj^e ! '

The children gathered round her, embracing

her with resounding skies, and
conveyed her to the carriage, changing to her
skirts.

Good-bye,' she said again, and they all
echoed the word, shouting it after her. As
the train swept away, the last thing she saw
was the children dancing on the platform, and
Mr. Stapleton standing uncovered, with his
fair locks blowing in the wind.

On they steamed through the sweet spring
country, soft and brown in the April sunlight,
with all sorts of tender lights and colours
showing in the budding trees. It was the
longest journey that Diana had ever made ;
it interested her immensely. Late in the
afternoon they stopped at York, and changed
there to another line, and started once more
eastwards.

And now — in another hour ! ' she said.

Yes, we shall get to Lingley in another
hour,' the Eector echoed. ' I don't quite

know how far Wilmotes is from the station.
There was no station — no railway at all — in
my time nearer than York.'

It was six o'clock when they reached
Lingley. A man in livery touched his hat
to them as they stepped on the platform, and
they found that a carriage was waiting for
them.

It's pretty near three-quarters of an
hour's drive, sir,' the man said, in answer to
Mr. Fielding's inquiry, ' for the road's mostly
uphill. We go down to the station in half
an hour.' And they soon found that the
road was indeed hilly — a bleak, treeless, unsheltered
road running up into the moors.

It seems terribly desolate,' Diana said
once, as they climbed slowly on, and she
shivered a little. To her southern eyes the
aspect of this unaccustomed country seemed
very wild and friendless. It was all too strange
to her as yet for her to feel its beauty.

Yes, it is desolate,' the Eector assented,
but it is very grand. I used to love these
moors, my dear. And your mother loved
them,' he added gently after a moment. ' She
was born amongst them. I have walked
with her here along this very road. If I am
not mistaken, you will see the house almost
immediately now. The village lies further
on.'

They were both silent for a minute, and
then he said very quietly, 'There it is ! ' And
Diana looked and saw it — a large, low,
castellated house, set in a slight hollow
amongst the folds of the hills. The moors
rose up behind it and on either side of it. It
was a dreary, lonely place, Diana thought.
But yet she looked at it not without emotion.
She was sitting by her father's side, and without
speaking she put her hand in his. How
many memories must not the sight of those
grey walls bring back to him ! How happy

he must have been within them ! How he
must have suffered within them !

She sat in silence till he said :

You see that tower at the west end.
That was where we had our school-room. It
was a very pleasant room. Your mother
always liked it. She used to be in it a good
deal ; she used to share some of her brother's
lessons.' He paused and sighed. ' She was
very young — we were both young. We were
too young to be wise.'

You must take me to that room,' Diana
said.

She went on stroking his hand, but he did
not speak again.

The hall-door opened as the carriage
stopped before it, but only a servant came
forward to let down the steps and help Diana
to descend. They alighted, and went in in
silence. Another man was waiting in the
hall, and by him they were ushered into a

great empty drawing-room, and there left.
Not a word had been spoken to them by anyone.
' It is like coming to an enchanted place,'
Diana said.

She sat down by one of the windows that
looked out upon a formal garden. What
would happen next ? she wondered. Who
would come to greet them, and speak to
them ?

'Papa,' she said urgently to the Eector,
don't go straying away to the other end of
this wilderness of a place,' — for he had begun,
in a half-dream perhaps, to ramble down the
long apartment. ' Please stand beside me,
that whoever comes in may see us both at
once. I think this is a miserable way of receiving
people,' and a flush came to her face.

Hush, Di, hush ! They may hear you,'
whispered the Eector nervously.

And, indeed, the words had hardly left his
lips when the door opened.

It was a lady who had opened it, and who
came in in a hurried, but at the same time
hesitating, way. She was a small woman,
who might have been pretty once, but she
was faded now, and her light blue eyes
blinked and had a scared look in them. As
she came forward she held out her hand
nervously.

How do you do ? I am Mrs. Eivers,'
she said in a flurried voice.

They took her hand, and the Rector made
a little ceremonious speech.

I have come with my daughter, at Sir
Henry's request — as you are perhaps aware,'
he said.

Oh yes ! ' the lady murmured quickly.

She turned to Diana with an uncertain
flickering smile.

I am glad to see you,' she said. ' I
dare say you are very tired. You have come
a long way. Will you — will you sit down a

little ? Or would you rather go upstairs at
once, and have your tea in your own
room ? '

Shall we go upstairs, papa ? ' Diana asked
in her clear voice. Their reception seemed
to her a strange one, but she was sorry for
this poor little nervous woman. ' I think
we had better go.'

Then I will rinc^ for a servant,' said
Mrs. Eivers, in a tone of relief. ' I dare say
you will be glad of a little rest. We don't
dine till eight. I forgot to say. Sir Henry is
lying down at present — he generally lies down
for a little in the afternoon — but you will find
him here at dinner time. We always meet
here at eight o'clock.'

And then a servant opened the door, and
they were shown to their rooms.

Pleasant rooms, facing the sunset. In one
of them, which was a little boudoir, a bright
fire was burning, and Diana went quickly to

the cheerful blaze, and held her hands over it
with a shiver.

'It is a mercy they keep good fires,' she
said, ' for one would freeze here otherwise,
it seems to me. Father,' and she looked up
into his face, ' is she afraid of us, do you
think?'

The Eector shook his head. ' She seems
a — she certainly seems an unusually nervous
woman.'

A scared woman, I should call her,' said
Diana. ' A scared woman, with the life
entirely gone out of her. Papa, I believe that
old Turk lias frightened her wits away ! '

My dear,' exclaimed Mr. Fielding, ' I
hope not ! '

Well, we must wait and see,' said Diana.
It is an odd house, it seems to me — but
meanwhile let us have oar tea — I am glad
they have brought me some tea — and then I
will dress ; and after that I will write a letter

to Susan, and tell her we have got here, and
that it is all as dismal as it can be.'

So they sat over their fire and their tea
for half an hour, and then Diana unpacked
her things and put on her evening gown, and
was just about to begin her letter to Mrs.
Fielding when a servant came to the door
with a message for the Eector.

If you are disengaged, sir, Sir Henry
would be glad to see you in the library,' he
said,

Tell Sir Henry,' answered the Eector,
that I will be with him immediately. You
needn't wait. I know the way.'

Diana laid down her pen, and rose and
put her hand upon her father's shoulder.

Papa, may I go with you ? Do you
think I may ? ' she said quickly. ' I am
afraid he will bully you.' Lie was looking
at him anxiously. ' Perhaps if I went he
wouldn't. Dear, let me io.'

But Mr. Fielding put lier aside with a
laugh.

Child, I am not afraid of him he said.
'He has no power to hurt me now — and
probably he has no wish to do it. Stay here
and write your letter. If he had wanted you,
Di, he would have sent for you. I think it is
natural that he should see me alone first.'

And then he went, and Diana tried to
continue her letter, but could not.

Her father was absent for about half an
hour. When he returned he looked grave
but not troubled. He called her to come to
him, and they sat down together.

I am glad that this first meeting is over,'
he said after a moment or two ; 'but I have
nothing to complain of: he has treated me
with — well, on the whole, with civility. I
find him greatly changed.'

In appearance do you mean ? ' Diana
asked.

^ Yes, in appearance. He looks an old
man now — of course it was to be expected :
he is seventy-six, he says. He did not rise
when I came in. I don't know why that was.
He may suffer from gout, perhaps.'

I dare say he doesn't,' said Diana curtly.
They have curious ways, evidently, in this
house.'

Well, my dear, it is immaterial. He was
sitting in his arm-chair by the fire, and he
said : " Well, sir ? " and put out his hand.
So I shook hands with him and then I sat
down too ; and presently, but not for a minute
or so, he began to talk.'

And what did he talk about ? ' asked
Diana.

He mainly asked me questions about
you. I think he wanted to learn if you were
like your mother, but lie did not mention
your mother's name, nor did I. Of course
I answered what lie asked me. I told him

VOL. I. M

you were very tall and strong. He seemed
surprised at that — very naturally, no doubt.'

Perhaps when he sees me he won't believe
in me,' said the girl with a short laugh.

'He will believe in you, Di,' said the
Eector quietly ' You are too like some one
else for him not to do that.'

The colour came into Diana's face. ' Do
you mean — himself? ' she said sharply.

No, no, you are not like him. But you
remember my speaking* to you sometimes
about that portrait here on the stairs ? I
looked at it again just now, as I came up,
and I thought — well, I thought I had been
quite right, my dear, and that you bore a
curiously strong resemblance to it. You shall
see presently for yourself. I should almost
think it will strike Sir Henry, It — it rather
pleases me, Di.'

Diana said nothing, but she looked into the
fire for a few moments with a little smile upon

her lips. Perhaps what her father had said
pleased her too. But, after a little pause :

Well, and what next ? ' was all she
asked.

Well, Di,' the Eector hesitated slightly,
the only other thing was that he spoke
about his reasons for sending for you.'

And what are they ? ' Diana bluntly asked >

They are connected with — his with my
dear. I had hoped it might be so. I believe
he designs, if he approves of you, to leave
you something at his death.'

I am very glad to hear it,' said Diana
gravely. ' And when he told you that, what
did you say ? '

I said, as you do, that I was glad. Perhaps
he expected me to make some profession
of indifference, but I was not indifferent.
How could I be ? so unable myself to provide
for you as I am. I told him plainly that if lie
where to leave a legacy to you it would take a

M 2

great weight off my heart. He gave a little —
well — a — a sort of grunt when I said that,
and muttered something in which, it seemed
to me, I heard the word " conditions " ; but I
may have been mistaken. I tried to make
him repeat his remark more audibly, but he
did not do so. And then, that was nearly all
that passed between us, except that he said
some few words concerning Mrs. Eivers, and
oh yes, one other thing — it seems there is
a young man, my dear.'

Young man ! ' echoed Diana.

Yes — a son of Mrs. Eivers.'

A son of Mrs. Eivers must be my cousin ! '
cried the girl.

She looked up at her father with a light
of surprise and gladness in her face ; she
flushed ; she broke out into a sudden laus^h.

Yes, of course he must be your cousin,'
said the Eector.

I never had a cousin before in all my life ! '

No, Di ; that is true.'

And is he here, do you mean — actually
here ? '

So I understand, my dear.'

I hope he will dine with us ! ' she exclaimed.


If he is in the house,' replied the Eector,
he naturally will.'

Yes, but is he in the house ? ' cried the
girl. ' That is what I am afraid there maybe
some mistake about.'

Mr. Fielding looked at her uneasily ; this
excitement perplexed him : perhaps it seemed
to him hardly maidenly.

At any rate, my dear, we shall soon
know,' he said with some gravity, ' for it
wants but a few minutes to eight o'clock. I
am disposed indeed to think that, without anymore
delay, we ought to go down to the
drawing-room.'

Well, let us go then,' said Diana. ' It is

an ordeal, but the sooner we get it over the
better.'

So she rose up, and looked at her fair
young face for a moment in the glass (to keep
up her courage, possibly ; it was a sight not
ill-fitted to do that), and then almost in silence
they went downstairs.

There is the picture,' Mr. Fielding said
half aloud, pointing to his left when they
had nearly reached the hall. ' We won't stop
now to look at it, but you see the one I mean.'

I see it,' Diana said. She too spoke in a
whisper, but her eyes had brightened, and the
colour had risen into her cheeks ; and it was
still there, flushing her royally like a young
Hebe, as the Eector opened the drawing-room
door and took her in.

They entered, and then for a moment she
stood still. The eyes of all the occupants of
the room were turned upon her, but she was
not thinking of herself then ; she all at once

forgot herself in the eager interest with which
she regarded two of three figures that she saw
before her.

One of them — a young man — came forward
almost instantly.

My cousin Diana ? ' he said quickly, and
put out his hand.

He was tall, and very fair, and pale ; he
had a shy yet a pleasant boyish face, Diana
thought. She smiled when he made his
greeting, and he smiled too, and blushed.
Then he shook hands with her father, and
they all advanced together to where Sir Henry
was seated by the fire.

The old man had been watching them
as they came towards him ; when they approached
his chair he paid Diana the courtesy
(which he had denied to her father) of rising
to his feet. He stood facing her for a moment
or two, and then he deliberately raised his
hands and laid them on her shoulders.

So you have come to see me, Diana
Fielding ? ' he said.

Yes, sir — you sent for me,' she answered
gravely.

'I sent — or else you would not have come,
you mean ? ' he asked ; and he bent a pair of
sharp grey eyes and fierce dark eyebrows on
her, — with intent to frighten her perhaps.

Not in the least frightened, however, she
merely replied : ' No : certainly I should not
have come.'

You felt no desire then, my dear, to become
acquainted with your grandfather ? ' he
demanded ; and as he said this he grinned at
her not unlike the wolf in Need Ending Hood.

I felt the greatest possible desire,' she
answered quickly.

'Well, then, your wish is gratified.'

Yes — and I am very glad,' she said.

With a half-laugh when she had made this
reply, Sir Henry let himself sink again into

his chair. There was a moment's silence, and
then the young man made a hurried step
forward.

May I give you a seat ? Will you not sit
down here — beside my mother ? ' he said to
Diana with nervous hospitality.

But before she could assent to his invitation
Sir Henry peremptorily interposed.

Who told you to interfere ? ' he growled
to his grandson. ' Bring her a chair here —
where I can see her. Now sit down, young
woman, and turn your face to me.'

Diana sat down and turned her face to
him, and they looked at one another without
speaking for a few moments.

You have Eivers blood in you : that is
clear enough,' he said presently. ' You're
oddly like a certain ancestress of yours.'

So my father has told me,' said Diana.

Your father ! What does he know about
it ? ' cried the old man scornfully.

He knows the pictures here.' Lie hesitated
a moment ; then, colouring a little — ' He
thinks I am Hke one,' she added, ' that is
hanging on the staircase.'

Sir Henry gave a laugh. ' So he has eyes
for that — has he ? ' he said. ' Well, I know
what picture he means.'

Whose portrait is it ? ' asked Diana with
interest.

The portrait of some one who died before
you were born. She was a Eivers. She was
your great-grandcourt. She was a noted
beauty in her day. You will never be as
handsome as she was, my dear.'

Do you think you need tell me that ? '
said the girl quietly.

But it is true that you have a certain
look of her.'

That is very nice for me,' replied Diana,
and smiled.

Why should it be nice for you ? Why

should you care about it ? ' asked Sir Henry,
and suddenly scowled, with a fresh intent
apparently' to scare her — though, luckily for
Diana, his effort again met with no success,
for she continued to look him full in the
face, surprised indeed, but certainly undismayed.


Why should I care to be like my mother's
people ? ' she said.

Ay, why should you ? What are your
mother's people to you? You have never
known one of them.'

I know one of them now, sir.'

You fool ! ' said Sir Henry contemptuously.


As he ejaculated ' You fool ! ' the young
man, who, though at some little distance, was
apparently keeping his ears open to their
discourse, almost jumped from his seat.
Grandfather ! ' he cried. But Sir Henry
only laughed his sardonic laugh.

We are all fools more or less. I say she
is one,' he reiterated. ' to tell me she knows
me after she has sat with me for five minutes
in the same room. My dear, when we have
been acquainted for five years, your knowledge
of me will be worth — that ! ' and he snapped
his fingers. He gave an inward growl as he
finished his sentence, and bent suddenly forward,
and, seizing the poker, struck it into the
fire ; after which he leant back in his chair
again, and renewed his scrutiny of Diana's
face.

Are you sulking now ? ' he asked
abruptly.

No, sir,' she quietly said .

You don't mind being called a fool,
then ? '

I don't mind it particularly, sir — from
you.'

And why not from me ? ' shooting out
his brows.

Because,' — with a little hesitation — ' because
I think you are in the habit of using
language that is stronger than you mean.'

Ah, you think so, do you ? ' said Sir
Henry.

He continued to gaze and frown at her,
but though he frowned there was a certain
twinkle in his eye that did not quite denote
indignation.

It strikes me, young woman,' he said
after a few moments, ' that you have a trick
of coming to conclusions rather hastily.'

'Do you think so, sir?' she demurely
asked.

You came to the conclusion two minutes
ago that you knew me '

That was merely a slip of the tongue.'

Oh, that was a sip of the tongue, was it ?
And the other remark about — strong language
— was that a slip of the tongue too ? '

I — I think not, sir.'

You think not, you young minx ! '
For one moment longer Sir Henry looked
frowningly into her face, then he burst into
a loud guffaw. ' Ha ! ha ! ha ! ' he laughed,
almost drowning the sound of the gong that
summoned them to dinner.

The other three had meanwhile with difficulty
been keeping up a feeble dribble of talk.
They had all been in reality watching Diana
and Sir Henry, while trying to seem as if they
were riot watching them, and their conversation
in consequence had been infelicitous.
When the gong had sounded, Mrs. Elvers rose
up, with the apparent intention of crossing
the room towards Sir Henry's chair, but the
old man, directing a momentary look towards
her, called out ungraciously : ' Let Mr. Fielding
take you in, Maria. Fve a mind myself
to try the strength of the young woman's
arm.' And in another second his long thin
hand, like a bird's claw, had gripped Diana,

and resting almost all his weight upon her, lie
rose up.

Now walk slowly,' lie said, ' for my days
of quick movement are past.' But as they
made for the door he stepped out pretty
briskly, Diana thought.

They led the way, leaving the others to
follow. As they crossed the hall. Sir Henry
with a chuckle jerked his finger upwards.


There's your rival,' he said.

I see her,' replied Diana with a laugh.

She would put your nose out of joint
if she were here in the flesh.'

The girl laughed again. ' There is little
doubt of that.'

Ah, you can say so composedly, seeing
she's been in her grave for these forty years.
You would take another tone, my young
lady, I suspect, if she were walking at this
moment in to dinner with us.'

Should I, do you think ? ' asked Diana.
I wish she were.'

'Stuff! stuff! Don't say you wish she
were. You woukl scratch her eyes out
growled Sir Henry.

I think,' said Diana demurely, ' that
coming to hasty conclusions must be a failing
in the family.'

And then Sir Henry made no reply, but
he burst out again suddenly into another curt,
grim laugh.

He set Diana in the dining-room at his
right hand, and, if he did not pay her much
attention as the meal proceeded, at any rate
he paid her so much more than he did to
anyone else, that a Hush of nervous uneasiness
spread gradually over Mrs. Eivers's face. She
sat at the head of the table, shy and helpless.
Mr. Fielding and the young man tried to keep
up a fragmentary talk, into which the Eector
made an occasional courteous attempt to draw

Sir Henry, but the baronet ate his dinner and
growled out brief sentences to Diana, and
merely answered in monosyllables to these
efforts.

At the end of an hour Diana found herself
back in the drawing-room with her aunt.

• ' Are you cold ? ' Mrs. Rivers asked her in
her hurried, timid way as they entered the
room, and the girl said, ' It is rather cold,
isn't it ? ' and went forward to the fire and
held her hands over it, shivering a little. In
fact, she felt that the spiritual atmosphere in
this place, whatever the material one might
be, was very chill indeed.

I should think it must be rather dreary
in the winter here. Don't you find it so ? '
she asked after a little silence, and she looked
round into the depressed face of the woman
at her side as she spoke with, perhaps, an
unconsciously expressed pity.

Mrs. Rivers gave the ghost of a sigh.

VOL. I. N

It is rather dreary,' she said. ' At least,
I mean it is a very big place, you know, and
and it seems to need a larger family than
ours to fill it ; and, of course, Sir Henry, not
being in good health '

Is he not in good health ? ' interrupted
Diana. ' Oh, I didn't think it was his health
that there was much the matter with I ' And
then she looked at Mrs. Elvers again, with
something so nearly approaching to laughter
in her eyes that the cowed and timid woman
coloured to the roots of her hair.

He always likes to consider himself an
invalid — at least, I mean, he talks in that
way, though it is rather difficult, too, because

at times he resents ' she said, and then

suddenly broke off her incoherent utterance
altogether.

But Diana'[nodded her head, and replied,
Yes, I understand,' quite readily, as if Mrs.

Eivers's speech had been the most lucid thing
in the world.

They sat down presently in a couple of
arm-chairs by the fire, and Diana instinctively
set herself to talk and do her best towards
putting her quiet hostess at her ease.

What a great room this is for two or
three people to live in ! ' she said. ' I suppose
I should like it if I were used to it, but we
have such a little house at home ; ' and then,
partly, perhaps, because she was a trifle
homesick, she began to tell Mrs. Elvers about
the Eectory, and her step-mother, and the
children, and their simple village life ; and
she was still doing this when, at the end of
half an hour, the door opened again, and her
cousin came into the room.

He was an amiable-looking lad, though he
seemed, unfortunately, to have inherited more
than was good for him of his mother's feeble

N 2

spirits. He came towards them in a half-shy,
half-expectant way.

Have you left the others in the diningroom,
Cecil?' Mrs. Eivers asked him.

Yes ; I left them a little while ago. I
thought they might perhaps want some talk
alone together'. he said, and as he spoke he
gave a glance at Diana that seemed like an
inquiry as to whether he had done what
approved itself to her as right.

She nodded her head. ' They can come
away if they don't want to talk,' she said.

Exactly ; that is what I thought,' he
answered eagerly. ' My grandfather never
stays in the dining-room long after dinner.'
And then all at once he looked again at her.
I should think you were tired ? ' he suddenly
said.

Well, if I am, I am resting, you see,' she
answered. ' One could not well rest better
than in an arm-chair like this by the fire.'

Oh well, I don't know about that,' he
said. ' I don't care very much for armchairs.'
He gave a kind of tentative glance
at her. ' If I were tired I would rather
play,' he abruptly said.

'Plays' repeated Diana, with a little
hesitation, trying rapidly to calculate his
probable age.

On the violin, I mean,' he explained.

Oh ! ' exclaimed the girl. ' Do you play
the violin ? ' she asked with interest.

Mrs. Eivers answered the question.

Yes ; he plays beautifully — oh beautifully'
she said smiling.

Mother, don't, that's nonsense ! ' cried
Cecil ; but Mrs. Eivers still beamed and
smiled upon him.

Well, you must hear him, and then you
can judge for yourself,' she said.

I shall be delighted to hear him,' returned
Diana. ' I never knew — actually

Jcnew — anybody who played the violin before
in all my life, except one old man in our
village ; but he does it awfully. What a
pleasure it must be to you ! '

It is a great pleasure, of course,' said
the young man. And then he looked at her
eagerly. ' I hope you are musical, too ? '

Diana was forced to shake her head.

Oh no, I am not ; I can hardly play at
all,' she said. ' I sing a little, but very badly,
for I have never been taught, and I can barely
manage to play my own accompaniments.'

Cecil's face had grown very grave. ' That
is a terrible pity,' he answered. He seemed
both distressed and puzzled. ' How has it
come about ? ' he anxiously asked.

'Well, I have never had anybody to teach
me,' answered Diana a little impatiently. 'We
live in a little country village, and mamma
died before I was five years old. I have had
nobody but papa to bring me up, — and papa.

doesn't play. My step-mother (I have a
step-mother now) has been very good in
teaching me a little, but then she doesn't
know much herself.'

Dear me ! it is a pity you should not
have some lessons,' said Cecil with concern.

There was an abrupt pause. Diana
glanced at him. A young man whose whole
soul seemed to lie in playing the fiddle was
a phenomenon that was quite new to her.
No wonder he looked a — a little weak and
odd, she thought.

'I don't want any lessons — at any rate
at present,' she said after a little pause.
As I told you just now, I am not musical ;
and I want to enjoy myself, not to practise.'

But you would soon find practising intense
enjoyment,' he answered earnestly.

Indeed I should do nothing of the sort,'
replied Diana. ' It is all very well for you to
talk like that. I suppose you — I mean, music

seems to be your world, but it is not mine.
I don't believe I should ever be a musician if
I practised from now till doomsday. If you
will play to me, though, I shall like that.
To listen to good playing will interest me
immensely.'

Well, I will play to you certainly, if you
care to hear me,' said Cecil ; but he looked
into the fire, and gave a low sigh. He was
evidently disappointed.

How very odd he is ! ' thought Diana to
herself

He stood thoughtfully gazing into the fire
for nearly a minute, then suddenly he looked
up again, and Diana imagined that he was
going to start some different subject, but he
was not.

I have some very fine violins,' he only
said with eagerness. ' You must let me show
them to you.'

Well, but ' began Diana, and then

suddenly hesitated. Were they outwardly
beautiful? she wondered. She hesitated fora
moment or two, and after that she began
suddenly to laugh. ' But what good could
it do me to see them?' she said. 'I am
afraid I shouldn't be a bit the wiser if I did.
People give hundreds of guineas for violins,
I know ; but you see I couldn't tell the
difference between one that cost five hundred
pounds and one that cost five hundred
pence.'

Oh, I only thought you might have been
interested in them. I beg your pardon,' said
the young man apologetically.

He looked sad as he spoke ; he blushed
too in an abashed way ; he backed a step
from Diana. The little rebuff had evidently
hurt him. This vexed her.

It is not the sight — it is the sound — of
them, you know, that I care about,' she
began to explain.

Oh yes,' lie assented gently.

You must forgive me for being so
dreadfully ignorant.'

He smiled suddenly. His smile was very
sweet, and illumined all this face. Diana had
never before seen anything like it. She
gazed at it with some admiration and much
amazement.

His vocation does not seem to be for this
world,' she thought.

There was suddenly a sound of voices in
the hall, and as he heard them Cecil's expression
hurriedly changed.

Don't ask me to play before my grandfather,'
he ejaculated quickly, in a tone of
entreaty and almost of alarm.

Neo ? ' said Diana, looking up surprised.

No — no — neither to-night nor ever,' he
exclaimed. ' I — I never play before him.'

And then he dropped back all at once,
and was standing at a table fingering some

magazines when Sir Henry and the Eector
came into the room.

I don't think he can be quite right in
his mind,' said Diana pityingly to herself.

Mr. Fielding looked as if he had come
from no pleasant interview as the two gentlemen
entered ; but Sir Henry's eyes were
bright, and his aggressive brows erect. He
advanced towards the fireplace, only addressing
by the Away a curt command to his
grandson. ' Wheel my chair this way, sir ! '
he said to him with a growl, and Cecil
started forward, and in hurried obedience to
an extended finger, wheeled Sir Henry's
chair to Diana's side. And then the old man
dropped himself into it, and did not move
again from that position for the remainder
of the evening.

He began to talk to Diana, and as he
talked, the others, she noticed, gradually
backed away from them ; her whither betook

himself to a distant sofa, and occupied
himself with a book ; Mrs. Elvers retired to
her writing-table ; her son, after a little
hesitation, slipped noiselessly from the room.
It seemed to Diana that as he made his silent
exit the old man gave a malicious chuckle ;
but this was perhaps mere fancy, or the
chuckle, if in reality he gave it, might have
had no connection with his grandson's disappearance.


He sat by Diana's side, and asked her
questions, and laughed often in his sardonic
way at her replies. The girl was not afraid
of him ; she was curiously unconscious of
even the slightest feeling of fear as she looked
into his bright old leonine eyes, and made
answer to his sharp and curt inquiries.
There was something in him that, instead
of cowing, only stirred and roused her. She
was no coward by nature ; perhaps she felt
a certain sympathy — born of their common

blood — with his fierce and dominant spirit.
He made all the others fear him ; but she
was acute, and perceived instinctively that
courage with this tyrannical old man would
serve her better than cowardice, — that he
despised her cousin because he could succeed
in frightening him, and was on the verge of
despising her father, if he had not already
achieved the coins of it. ' But he can do
nothing to hurt me ; he may quarrel with me,
and send me out of his house tomorrow,'
Diana said composedly to herself, ' but if he
does what will it matter ? So long as I stay
in it I will wear my true colours, and say
what I think.'

So she sat by Sir Henry's side, and fearlessly
said what she thought, and Sir Henry
was amused with her immensely.

You have got on with him wonderfully,
child,' her father said to her when the evening
ended.

Perhaps he had not read his book very
diligently ; he had probably heard a good
deal of the talk that Sir Henry had held with
his granddaughter, and in all likelihood he
had heard it with much amazement, — with a
suspicion even, possibly, that it was revolutionary,
and wanting in the reverence and
respect that are due naturally from youth to
age. To himself, Sir Henry Elvers had
always been an object of so much dread that
it was scarcely to be expected that he should
all at once be able to appreciate Diana's utter
want of dread of him. 'You have got on
with him, wonderfully,' he said, in a tone
whose dubious accent at once struck on
Diana's ear.

I seem to have entertained him a little,'
she modestly replied. ' Perhaps he is very
dull. Don't you think he must be dull,
father, living in this big place, with such
unexciting people ? '

'My clear,' said the Eector almost
peevishly, ' at his age people don't want
excitement.'

But I think he does,' persisted Diana ;
'he isn't burnt out yet; you can see that
easily.'

'Oh, he isn't burnt out,' replied the
Eector. He spoke with emphasis, even with
something like a little shudder. 'Neo, no, I
don't for a moment suppose that. He is a
fierce, tyrannical old man.'

So much the worse for him, poor old
fellow,' said Diana simply. ' I am sure, for
his own happiness I wish he wasn't.'

We may all well wish that,' said the
Eector, and then he sighed. ' You will have
to be careful with him, my dear.'

Careful ? ' Diana echoed the word
dubiously.

I mean, Di, not to vex him.'

'I shall be nice to him,' said the girl composedly.

' If I am nice to him, and he
doesn't like it, then I can't do anything more.
I am not afraid of him, father.'

No, my dear,' replied the Eector, ' it is
certainly very evident that you are not.'

And then he paused for a moment, and
after that pause — 'Perhaps it might have
been better for us,' he added, not without
emotion, 'if none of us had been afraid of
him long ago.'

The girl looked up at him suddenly.
Had he only found that out now? she
thought. She tenderly laid her hand on his.

Dear,' she said, ' that is an old story ;
you did the best you could.'

But the Eector sighed and shook his
head.

Perhaps not, Di ; perhaps not,' he meekly

said.

HEN you wish me to leave Diana
here — for a time ? I am to understand
that ? ' the Eector asked Sir
Henry Eivers next morning : upon which Sir
Henry fixed his fiery eyes upon him, and —

To understand it, sir ? Of course you
are to understand it,' he retorted. ' Didn't I
make that clear to you last night ? '

You did, — but I wished to be sure that
you continued in the same mind this morning,'
explained the Eector deprecatingly.

Humph ! ' growled Sir Henry. ' If I lead
changed my mind I should have told you.'
VOL. I.

So then the Eector retreated to his room,
and Diana packed his bag.

I don't know how long you will stay away
from us : I don't know how long they will
try to keep you. I must leave it all in your
hands, my dear, dear girl,' the good man said
to her almost with tears in his voice.

I shall come back to you perhaps before
you want me. I shall be turned out of the
house perhaps for insubordination,' Diana
answered, with a successful attempt to make
a diversion, for her suggestion startled the
Eector out of his melting mood.

God bless me, I hope not ! ' he said
fervently.

Worse things than that might happen,'
remarked Diana.

'No, no,' ejaculated her father. 'No, no,
nothing so bad as that, I trust, — only you
must be prudent, Di — prudent and forbearing
and not too self-willed, my dear.'

'Not too self-willed. No — of course not,
father,' said Diana.

And then the Eector glanced at her, a
little troubled, but held his peace.

They had been left to themselves since
breakfast, and the good man had been taking
Diana over the house and gardens. The place
was all familiar enough to him, and full of
memories that, as one after another they were
recalled, thrilled him with emotion. In the
old school-room they had found Cecil Eivers,
with his violins and other musical instruments
about him.

Oh, come in — pray come in ! ' he exclaimed,
as the Eector with an apology would
have retreated after opening the door, and
lie jumped up and insisted on their entering.
' I spend a great deal of my time here,
because I can play in this room without anyone
hearing me,' he explained with a gentle
smile to Diana. ' You came to see it because

it used to be the school-room ? Oh yes — 1
know : it was my father's school-room when
he was a little fellow — and Uncle Fred's.'

'And your mother's, my dear,' said Mr.
Fielding, and laid his hand with a sudden
weight upon Diana's shoulder.

A pleasant turret room, with windows
looking out in three directions. It was filled
with sunshine as they stood in it — the same
golden sunshine that must have shone so often
on her mother's face. The girl stood silent,
intent, full of thoughts that moved her.

I was your uncle's tutor, you know,' Mr.
Fielding said, after a minute, to Cecil. ' Your
father had gone to Oxford before I came, but
I taught your Uncle Fred for two years in this
room.'

And fell in love with my Aunt Frances,'
added Cecil, with a momentary blush and
laugh.

^ Have they told you that too, my boy ^ *

the Eector asked half-sadly : and then, not
waiting for an answer, he walked to one of
the windows and looked out.

It was almost the hour at wliicli he had to
start. Cecil came downstairs with them presently.
' I will see if the trap is ready. I hope
you will let me drive you to the station ? ' he
said.

Diana was going to the station, too. As she
went upstairs to put on her hat the Eector reluctantly
turned towards the library to take a
final leave of his host. He found Sir Henry
sitting reading before a blazing fire.

I have come to wish you good-bye, sir,'
he said briefly as he entered.

Well, sir, I wish you good-bye,' returned
the old man from his chair, and stretched out
a ready hand.

Of course,' said Mr. Fielding, ' you will
write if you have anything further to say tome?'


My good sir,' replied Sir Henry, ' I am
not likely to have anything to say to you — but
you may certainly depend upon my writing
if I want to do it. Good-day.'

And then the Eector kept his tongue in
check, and silently left his father-in-law's presence,
with his gentle heart perhaps burning
a little.

You must come home if you can't bear it,
my darling,' he said earnestly to Diana, with a
flush upon his face when he rejoined her. ' I
don't know how they may mean to treat you,
but if they make it hard for you, come home
to me — come home, Di, without a moment's
hesitation.'

The girl kissed him tenderly. ' I don't
think they mean to make it hard, dear,' she
said. ' Grandpa cannot forgive you, and he
is insolent to you because he sees that — that
you cannot forget the time when he had the
power to hurt you : but he has no power to

hurt me and so I think he will treat me well.
At any rate we will try. If he does not,' and
then her eyes beamed softly on him, ' well —
there is no harm done, and — oh yes, I will
come back to the dear old home.'

Cecil drove them to the station, and they
started the Rector on his journey, and then
the two cousins returned slowly together along
the uphill road to Wilmotes. As they went
Diana was very silent for a while ; perhaps, in
spite of her hopeful words, she had experienced
a certain sense of loneliness as the train sped
away, and she felt herself left, almost for the
first time in her Hfe, in a strange place, amongst
strange people.

I have always been so much at home. It
seems curious to me to be here, all by myself,'
she said half apologetically to Cecil, after they
had driven on for a few minutes almost in
silence.

I hope you won't find it too dull to bear

he eagerly answered. ' It is awfully slow, I
know, and if you have been used to something

different ' And he glanced at her, as he

left his sentence unfinished, with evident
anxiety in his pale eyes.

Oh, I don't think I am afraid of the dulness,'
said Diana bravely. ' I dare say our life
at home is quite as dull, — and it is so easy to
get interested in almost anything — if you try.'

Is it, do you think ? ' asked Cecil. He
shook his head, and then he sighed. ' I am
afraid I don't feel that,' he said.

'But you ought to feel it. If you are
young and strong you ought to be able to find
no end of interests,' exclaimed the girl.

Cecil shook his head again. ' There is
only about one thing that I care for in the
world,' he said.

'Oh, you mean your music?' inquired
Diana. But she spoke half impatiently ; she
almost shrugged her shoulders. ' If I don't

stop him lie will talk of his violins now all the
rest of the way home ! ' — she thought, and to
avert this catastrophe she plunged suddenly
into a different subject.

What is ray grandfather doing at this
time of day ? Where is he ? ' she asked,
putting her question so abruptly that Cecil's
eyes turned towards her with a start.

Where is he ? ' he echoed hurriedly. ' Oh,
I don't know. In the library, I suppose.'

Is that where he generally is ? '

Oh yes, he almost lives there.'

And doesn't he go out ? '

'Not very much. Only for half an hour
sometimes. He walks uj) and down one of the
terraces in the garden.'

And do you walk with him ? '

'/!' cried Cecil, with such consternation
that Diana began to laugh.

Why shouldn't you ? ' she said. ' It would
be a very natural thing if you did.' And then

she put on a grave face. ' I don't think you
treat your grandfather as you should.'

He looked at her again. His eyes, which
were slightly prominent, seemed almost starting
from his head. ' Why, it is he — it is
he ! ' he began, half gasping.

It is he who doesn't treat you as he should,
you mean ? ' said Diana calmly. ' Well — perhaps
that may be true too ; but, even if it is,
it does not alter the case. You ought to do
your duty by him, however he may treat
you.'

And force my company on him when he
doesn't want it ? Is that what you call doing
my duty by him ? ' cried Cecil, still in the
depths of astonishment.

If he doesn't want your company, is not
that your own fault ? ' asked Diana severely.
He would have wanted it once, I have no
doubt, if you had cared to make it pleasant
to him.'

Well — upon my word ! ' ejaculated Cecil.

/ am going to take warning by you, and
not follow your example,' said the girl, still
with great gravity. ' I shall go and talk to
him if I see him in the garden. I think you
are foolish not to know that an old man likes
to be talked to. Old people get dull — of
course, and it is hard for them if young ones
don't try to relieve their dulness a little. It
is too late, I dare say, for you to do anything
now — with grandpa, I mean : that is the
worst of making mistakes — that you so often
can't undo them ; but / am not going to fall
into your blunder.'

And then she closed her lips, and for
several moments, half abashed and half confounded,
Cecil drove on without uttering a
word.

Suddenly, however, after this little silence,
he broke out again into speech.

Cousin, you don't knoAV what he is ! he

ejaculated in an agitated whisper. ' You
don't know his awful temper — you don't know
his cruelty. Why is it that I stay here, do
you suppose, idling away my life ? Do you
imagine it is because I like to do it ? — or because
he cares for my company ? I stay here
because I have no money to go elsewhere,
and he won't give me any. He keeps me
here in idleness because he hates me, and
wants to ruin me. I must be the baronet if
I outlive him — he can't prevent that ; but as
long as he lives it is his scheme to treat me
like a dog ; and yet I have to stay here and
bear it for my mother's sake, because if I escaped
from him he would wreak his vengeance
upon her. If it weren't for her I would leave
the place tomorrow, though I hadn't five
pounds to take away with me, for I'm sick
of it ; I'm sick of his tyranny — I feel degraded
because I go on bearing it, and
yet what can I do ? — what can I do, Diana,

when I can't leave my mother to bear it
all alone ? '

His voice had risen and almost broken
with his eager utterance. Diana, glancing
at him, saw his face alternately flushing and
paling, and his gentle blue eyes full of fire
and tears. The girl's heart was touched.

I knew nothing of this,' she said with
kindness, ' or I would not have spoken as I
did. You must forgive me, for I didn't
know.'

Of course you didn't ; how could you ? '
he answered quickly. ' And I ought not to
have said anything perhaps ; only you were
misjudging me, I thought, and you are my
cousin, and it is allowable to say tidings to
one's cousin — isn't it? — that one wouldn't say
to strangers.'

Certainly it is allowable,' replied
Diana.

We have lived here,' the young man



went on rapidly, ' for these last six years, and
wretched years they have been to me. It
began after my father's death. He had never
been able to keep friends with my grandfather,
but when he died my mother was left
with nothing but her widow's pension (he
had been a soldier, you know), and in an unlucky
hour she thought that if we could find
a home here — I was too young to be consulted,
I was only fifteen — but she wrote to
my grandfather, and he told us to come, and
he has kept us here, living the life of a pair
of slaves ever since. He has kept us, hating
me all the time. He has let me learn nothing
all these years. I am twenty-one, and I don't
know as much as a boy of ten. He is ruining
my life, and he knows it, and it is what
he wants to do — because he hates me so.'

And then he stopped suddenly, his voice
breaking down with a gasp and almost a sob,
his face flushed and quivering with passion.

Diana was silent for a few moments, then
she said quietly : 'Why does he hate you ? '

The boy's colour, which had been paling
a little, sprang up again more crimson than
before. He glanced at her piteously. His lips
moved twice before he spoke. At last, only
half aloud : ' Because I am a coward,' he
answered.

A coward ? '

Because I am afraid of him.'

Then why in the world do you let yourself
be afraid of him ? ' and Diana opened her
own fearless eyes in splendid amazement.

Have you never been afraid of anybody
? ' retorted Cecil, almost peevishly.

Never,' said the girl.

He gave a bitter laugh. ' Then I wish I
had nerves like yours,' he said. ' It is all a
matter of nerves, I imagine. At least, if it
isn't that, I don't know what it is. God
knows ! '

They drove on for a little while in silence,
and Diana sat musing. Her cousin's confession
— she could not help being conscious —
had aroused a certain feeling of contempt in
her, but yet lie was vexed that it should have
aroused any contempt in her — and she v^^as
very sorry for him. He was so young — a
mere boy, and physically weak ; could she
not give him some good advice ? she thought
could she not say something that would put
a little heart and backbone into him ?

If I were you,' lie began abruptly, after
a minute or two had passed, ' if I were you
I should try hard to make a new start. You
see, it is so dreadful to live with anybody as
you seem to have been living with grandpa.
It — it isn't manly, Cecil. Why should you
not try to take up a new position ? You can't
be worse off than you are, you know, even if
you fail. Try to take up a new position, now
that 1 have come — and I'll back you in it.'

Cecil looked into her face for a moment.
In his look there was both gratitude and
admiration, but her address had not kindled
his courage. He only shook his head.

You are too good to say that — but there's
no use in it,' he answered dejectedly.

No use in it ? '

I mean, I couldn't do it. It is all very
well to talk of taking up a new position ; I
should talk so too perhaps if I were in your
place ; but when you have let a man trample
on you for half a dozen years, you can't spring
to your feet all at once and defy him.'

I don't want you to defy him. What
good would that do ? I only want you to
make him feel that you are not afraid of him.'

But I am afraid of him.'

Oh, Cecil ! ' — and the girl impatiently
struck her foot on the ground, and turned
round to her companion with her face aflame
' you are not to say that.'

VOL. I. P

T won't say it, then. It is easy enough to
hold one's tongue.'

I think,' cried Diana, still all in a glow,
there are some things one shouldn't confess
to even when they are partly true. It seems
to me, I mean, that we sometimes cease to be
ashamed of a thing when we are so ready to
acknowledge it. If we would fight against it
in silence, and conquer it, and then acknowledge
it — that is what it would be right todo,
I think, and what would be a help and
encouragement to other people. Not to say,
I am a coward now," but to be able to say
presently, " I was 'a coward once." '

Oh yes — I know,' responded Cecil wearily.

Then do it,' said Diana with spirit.

But the young man only shook his head
again. He could not catch her fire.

You see, I am happy enough at times,' he
began to say abruptly after a little silence.
I have my violin — that is my great resource

and comfort. He hates to hear it, but I play
up m the tower, and the sound doesn't reach
hin. And he leaves me a great deal alone.
I could never stand it if he didn't do that.'

You are twenty-one, did you say .^ ' asked
Diana.

Yes — I am twenty one. I came of age
in January.'

Are you too old to go to college ? '

To go to college ? ' echoed Cecil in a
startled tone. ' To Oxford or Cambridge, do
you mean ? Oh no, I don't suppose I am too
ol(L — but I am too ignorant ; I know nothing •

■' CD ' O '

I have learnt nothing since I was fifteen, and
what I knew then I have almost forgotten.'

Oh, dear me ! ' cried Diana impatiently.
She knit her brows ; this was a very bad case ;
it was making her angry, she began to feel.

Well, you have been very silly,' she said
severely. 'The idea of not keeping hold of
what you had learnt already, and you 



ing up into a man ! I can't understand you !
You shouldn't have given up all your time
to music. That is absurd.'

It is my only interest. It is the only
thing that makes me care for life at all,' said
Cecil wearily.

Well, but it's absurd ! ' reiterated Diana
with emphasis. 'Nobody can educate himself
on nothing but music. I can't imagine
how your mother could let you.'

'What could my mother do? She had
nothing in her power.'

She could surely have made your grandfather
send you to school, I should think,
if she had tried.'

She did try.'

And he wouldn't do it ? ' Diana's eyes
flashed. ' If I had been Aunt Eivers I would
have made him.'

I dare say you would,' Cecil said after a
moment's silence. ' I think you would make

most people do what you wanted. But my
poor mother is not like you. She is — unfortunately
instead. — like me. She is afraid of
him too.'

And then Diana ejaculated, ' Oh, dear
me ! ' again, half below her breath.

You are going to stay with us, are you
not ? I hope you will stay ! ' Cecil said, eagerly
and abruptly after another minute or two of
silence.

This inquiry interrupted her in the midst
of some thoughts that perhaps were not of a
very flattering sort in as far as the inmates of
Wilmotes were concerned, and she gave a
sudden, almost contemptuous laugh.

Going to stay with you ? No, I don't
think that is likely,' she answered in a tone
of indifference.

'But I thought you had come to stop
for at any rate a good while ? ' lie exclaimed.


'I don't know about that,' said Diana
curtly.

The young man looked at her with concern.


I am afraid I have been doing mischief.
1 have set you against us ? ' he said anxiously.

'Well, you can't suppose,' replied the
girl, ' that you have given me a very pleasant
picture of the life you all lead together.'

Cecil broke into a disconsolate exclamation.


What a fool I have been ! ' he cried
passionately.

But Diana began to laugh. 'What does
it matter ? ' she said. ' You have only told
me what I should very soon have found out
for myself. There is no harm done. I never
supposed even before I came that you were
very happy here, or that I should care to
stay long with you. I only came at all
because grandpa asked me, and because I

wanted to see him, and to see the place where
mamma had lived.'

But if you would stop,' said Cecil, ' you
don't know half the good you might do.
Why, it would be another house altogether
with you in it ! '

Don't you think,' asked Diana daintily,
that you had better be a little careful about
pressing an invitation that you don't know
yet whether my grandfather himself means
to give ? '

Cecil glanced at her, alarmed.

Has he not given it ? ' he said.

Not that I have ever heard. But perhaps
if I were to tell him that you had asked

me to remain for good ' suggested the

girl maliciously. And then lie began to
laugh, as poor Cecil flamed up into the colour
of a peony rose.

Perhaps Diana was a little tired of her
talk with her cousin by the time they reached

the house. She yawned when his eyes were
off her, and wondered what entertainment
more refreshing than his conversation she
could find. ' Grandpa, fierce as he is, is
more amusing,' she thought, and she began
to long for the arrival of lunch time, as to
the period at which she should be able to
refresh herself with some more pungent talk.
But when lunch was announced she found
that she was only to partake of that meal in
the presence of Mrs. Elvers and her son.

Sir Henry doesn't often join us,' Mrs.
Rivers said. ' He prefers generally only to
have a little soup sent him into the library.
I thought he would perhaps take lunch with
us to-day as you are here ; but he is an old
man, you see, and he likes to keep) to his
regular ways.'

Diana was sorry, but she said cheerfully,
Perhaps he will come some other day,' and
set herself to talk to the other two with such

patience and enjoyment as she could. ' They
are a depressing pair,' she thought to herself;
but yet, in her bright energy and health, she
felt so much pity and kindness for them both
that she began to do her best to entertain
them, and her efforts by degrees had some
visible effect in raising their feeble spirits.

It is very nice to have some one here so
young and — and cheerful as you are, my dear,'
Mrs. Eivers said to her with a nervous smile
when they rose from table, ' but I am sadly
afraid you will find our life very dull and
quiet. We don't see almost any company,
you know. Sir Henry never, I believe, cared
much for company. I could take 3'ou for a
drive, indeed, this afternoon, if you hked.^'
and she looked up dubiously into the girl's
face.

But Diana said that, as she had had a
drive already to-day, a repetition of that
entertainment might, perhaps, be deferred.

Instead of caring to drive — ' I had thought
that when grandpa went for his walk, I
would go and walk with him,' she announced
simply. ' I will get a book and sit in the
window-seat there till I see him come out.'

And, in spite of Mrs. Eivers's amazed face,
she proceeded to do this, and sat and read
her book in a seat that overlooked that
portion of the garden in which, as Cecil had
informed her, it was Sir Henry's habit to
walk, until at the end of an hour she saw
him issue from the house, when she unfastened
the window (for it was one which
opened to the ground), and caught up her
hat, and went boldly forth.

She met him upon one of the gravelled
walks.

Do you like best to walk alone, grand-papa,
or may I walk with you ? ' she asked
composedly, confronting him.

Do you think you are as useful as an old

man's stick ? ' demanded Sir Henry by way of
response ; and he suddenly flourished his staff
in the air so close to her face that she gave a
little involuntary jump.

But though she jumped, she laughed too.

You needn't give up your stick though
you take me,' she said.

I won't give up my stick, whether I take
you or leave you, my dear, — you may be very
sure of that,' he composedly answered. ' This
is an old friend, whose worth I've proved
these twenty years. As for you, you're a
young — gipsy, and about as stable, I suspect,
as the rest of them. However, if you come
to disturb an old man in his solitary walk you
must submit to be made use of. So ive me
your arm. I found it last night a pretty
stout one.'

And then Sir Henry gripped her firmly,
and indeed proceeded to lean no small portion
of his weight upon lier.

Well — and what have you been about
all day ? ' he soon asked. ' I saw you were
driving in the morning with that young
whipper-snapper. A useless young dog ! If
you could reform him in his idle ways you
would be doings a e^ood work.'

Reform him ? ' Diana ejaculated. She
shook her head. ' I shouldn't think it was
r^-forming that he was in any want of, sir.
It seems to me that his great fault is that he
has never been formed at all.'

Sir Henry broke into a laugh.

That's not bad,' he said. ' I'm glad to
see that you don't go about with your eyes
quite shut. No — you are right ; I shouldn't
have said — reform him ; I should have said —
mould him — try to make something of him —
try to put something into him.'

I think, grandpa,' said Diana gravely,
that ought to be your work, not mine.'

My work ! ' the old man sneered. ' Do

you fancy a cub like that would learn from
me ? or that I should care to teach him if he
did ? — a weak fool, fit for nothing but to be
tied to a woman's apron-string ! '

If he is weak, sir, I don't know why he
should be tied to a woman more than to a
man

I dare say you don't, my dear.'

And if men in general are stronger than
women (though I don't know that they are),
it seems to me that they would be the proper
people to have the management of fools, since
to manage fools you need a good deal of
sense yourself. Grandpa' — after only a
moment's pause — ' why did you never send
Cecil to school ? '

The old man shot out a glance at her
from under his bushy brows ; then he formed
them into a frown.

'Because I chose to keep him at home,'
he drily answered.

Yes — but if you chose - to keep him at
home you must have had some reason for it ? '

Exactly ; I had a reason for it.'

I think it was an unkind thing to do, sir.
I wonder you could reconcile your conscience
to it.'

You young goose ! ' said Sir Henry.
And then he gave one of his hard short
laughs. 'Now choose another subject of
conversation, my dear. You are clever, but
you are not clever enough.'

I am not clever at all,' said Diana ; ' but
I am sorry for Cecil.'

Be sorry for him then,' retorted Sir
Henry. ' Your sorrow does not interest mein
the least.'

And then Diana was wise enough to make
no reply.

As it was not her scheme, however, to
rouse her grandfather's anger, after a few
moments' silence :

I like this - place, ' she exclaimed in the
cheeriest way. ' It is beautiful, I think.
You know I have wanted to come here fora
long time.'

Oh — you have ? ' said Sir Henry sardonically.


Yes — I have so often wanted to see it —
because of mamma. And I also wanted to
see — you. You have always been a — a sort
of myth to me, you know.'

Ah ! A sort of figure-head, I dare say,'
said Sir Henry.

Yes — or a sort of figure-head,' responded
Diana, accepting the suggestion quite frankly.
'I never thought of you as anything living.
You were more to me like — like a tradition.
I do like seeing you really alive. It gives
me such an odd feeling, grandpa.'

It seems to give you an odd way of
speaking,' said Sir Henry.

But Diana let that remark pass.

'I suppose it is something about blood,'
she merely went on thoughtfully. ' Now, for
instance, if you were anybody else I shouldn't
care about having you leaning on my arm ;
but, do you know, I like you to do it.'

Humph ! ' muttered Sir Henry scornfully.

And then the thought that we belong to
one another makes me feel as if I could say
things to you.'

You seem pretty well disposed to do that,'
remarked Sir Henry drily, ' without any humbug
of belonging to me.'

Yes ; but don't you think one does it
from a sort of instinct, grandpa ? '

No, I don't,' said Sir Henry with bluntness.


I had hoped,' hesitatingly, ' that you
might have had something of the same sort
of feeling yourself? '

Not the remotest suspicion of it. Don't
flatter yourself, my dear. You are precisely

the same to me that any other young woman
would be.'

Oh ! ' Diana made her ejaculation rather
mournfully.

'Unless she was an utter fool. But in
that case I should send her packing.'

A great many girls are fools,' said Diana
mildly.

Well, if you are not,' retorted Sir Henry,
be thankful.'

'Oh, I am very thankful,' cried the girl,
with so much unction that the cynical old
man laughed.

Aunt Elvers seems very gentle and nice.
She is very nice, isn't she? ' she began again,
after a few moments' silence. ' I think I shall
get on very well with her, — don't you ? '

How can / tell who you are likely to get
on with, you goose ? ' replied Sir Henry.

I should think you might have an opinion.

VOL. I. Q

You must know her very well, and you know
me a little.'

Not I,' said Sir Henry. ' I don't know
you at all.'

A little on the surface, sir.'

The surface counts for nothing. At your
age you ought to know that. Why, you're
two-and-twenty.'

Yes,' — a little sadly. ' I wish I weren't.
I shall soon be growing old.'

Ay,' with a chuckle, ' you will soon be
losing your bloom. Another two or three
years, and the young ones will be looking
on you as an old maid. Why don't you get
married ?

Who shall I marry, grandpa ? '

Humph ! A good-looking young womanlike
you oughtn't to have much difficulty in
getting a husband.'

But indeed I have. There are so
few of them at Hettlestowe. It is such a

little place. You were never there, were
you?'

Never,' said Sir Henry curtly.

'I like it very much, you know — only
certainly it is small and dull.'

Of course, you find it dull ' — with a
sneer — ' if there is nobody in it to make love
to you.'

But I didn't say that, grandpa. There
is generally somebody to make love to one
everywhere,' — modestly.

Oh, ho ! ' laughed Sir Henry.

Only, you see, it is duller to be made
love to by some people than to be left alone.
It depends so much on the person.'

I should doubt that,' said Sir Henry.
My experience is that all fish are welcome
that come into a woman's net.'

Women are always being misunderstood,
grandpa,' in a grieved tone. ' You misunderstand
them entirely when you say that.'

Q 2

You are a pretty baggage to tell me so ! '

I don't like to be called a baggage, — but
I am glad you find me pretty.'

I didn't say that I found you pretty, you
piece of vanity. Now that I look at you,'
and Sir Henry craned his neck forward and
peered into her face critically, ' I don't find
you as good-looking as I imagined you were
last night.'

I am sorry for that, grandpa.'

No, I took you to be a rather fine-looking
girl, but I see now you are commonplace
enough. A healthy, buxom young woman,
that is all.'

'I am thankful to say I am healthy' —
and then Diana's tone became demure.
Health is of more value than beauty.'

I am glad you find it so.'

And a great deal better for our morals,
grandpa.'

• Not a doubt of it, my dear.'

Only, all the same, I am sorry you don't
think me pretty.'

Are you ? ' said Sir Henry. And then
all at once he patted the girl's arm, and a
smile that was almost a kindly one flitted fora
brief moment across his face.

Diana sav it, but before she could speak
it was gone.

'Yes, I am sorry,' she repeated softly.
But still, if you can like me, it won't matter
so much even if you do think me plain. I
could imagine you could like people very
much sometimes ? '

I can dislike them sometimes very much,'
retorted Sir Henry.

I like people to have warm blood in their
veins.'

Then you flatter yourself, I'll be bound,
that yours is warm ? '

I think it is, grandpa. It is the family
blood — like your own.'

'You are remarkably fond of claiming
kindred with the family blood, it seems to me.'

Well, why should I not be ? '

Humph ! ' said Sir Henry. ' You would
care less about it, perhaps, if the family
pockets were empty.'

Do you think I should ? ' the girl asked
quickly. ' Well, I have wondered about that
myself. Perhaps it might make a difference.
I don't like to think that it would ; but it is
possible, I know.'

You are more honest than I thought
you,' said Sir Henry. ' Come, there's some
hope for a girl who can speak the truth.'

'Some hope', repeated Diana. 'Did
you think, then, that there was none before ? '

'I thought you were no better than the
rest of them, my dear. You have risen half
a degree in my estimation.'

But, if what you say is true, I should fall
a good many in my own.'

The lower you fall in your own the
better.'

Yes, perhaps, grandpa ; but it is unpleasant,'
— and then Diana sighed. ' I like to
think well of myself. I am rather inclined to
say ' — abruptly — ' that, for the present, I
won't talk to you any more.'

Say so then, by all means.'

'And I think I will go in and meditate.'


You had far better go in and sew. But
you can't sew, I suppose ? '

Can't seal' with disdain.

I don't believe you can make a shirt ? '

I — I never have made a shirt, but I could
if I tried.'

Then you are a fool not to try.'

Grandpa,' in an aggrieved tone, ' you
shouldn't call me a fool. I have never been
used to it. And it's — rude.'

It is a habit in the family, my dear,' with

a chuckle. ' You must reconcile yourself toit,
if you want to swallow me whole.'

But I don't think that I do want to
swallow you whole. There are a good many
things in you that I don't want to swallow at
all.'

Upon my word, young lady, you speak
your mind ! '

I like to speak it, — when I can without
offence.'

Sir Henry burst out laughing. ' Be off
with you, you young minx ! ' he said.

I am going, sir — but I'll come again.'

The devil you will ! ' growled Sir Henry.

And then Diana hesitated as to whether
she should utter another protest against this
last remark, but after a moment's reflection
let it pass, and went her way.

Old bear though he was, her grandfather
interested her, she told herself as she went
back into the house. And it was well to have

got interested in somebody, for the place was
very dull, she remarked, and terribly large
and grand. ' I wonder if I shall ever feel at
home here ? ' she thought. ' It all seems so
silent, and solemn, and remote from common
life.' And her thoughts turned almost with
yearning to the Eectory at home, with its
humble solitary sitting-room, all full of stir
and life. ' I should like to see what they are
all doing in it, for refreshment's sake,' she said
to herself.

But, as she could not do this, when she
had re-entered the house she put her head in
succession into the several drawings-rooms
(there was a suite of them), and into the
dining-room, and into the morning-room, in
search of some companionship with which to
while away the time ; and, finding all these
various apartments empty, she sighed, and
went upstairs, and established herself in
solitude in her own little boudoir, with a novel

on her knees. She had made some profession
to Sir Henry of an intention to meditate, but
her book was amusing, and so she read instead.
Once, as she was reading, a faint
doubtful sound of music and the scraping of
catgut reached her ears. 'It must be that
boy at his fiddle,' she thought, and she
listened for a few moments, trying to catch
the strain ; but it was too fitful to be caught
without more effort than she cared to make,
so she gave up the attempt very soon, and
resumed her book.

m^m:/@m'm£mmm\M

CHAPTEE IX

lANA was healthily hungry when she
sat down to dinner at the end of
her first day at Wilmotes, but lie
yawned, and could hardly hide her yawns,
before the dull and lengthy banquet came to
an end. How solemn it was ! she thought ;
what a weary time it lasted ! As she sat in
her place she watched the moon rise above
the trees, and come shining in through the
great latticed windows, and she longed to be
out of doors looking at it, in the sweet spring
evening. And still they sat on and on, till in
her impatience she could have jumped up.

*I suppose you never go out here after
dinner, grandpa ? ' she asked the old man
wistfully once, with a faint hope perhaps of
achieving her release ; but Sir Henry only
laughed at her inquiry.

Do I want to be laid by the heels with
rheumatism ? ' he retorted. ' When I do, my
dear, I'll go and walk out in the night
dews.'

Diana gave a little sigh. 'At home we
never think of the night dews,' she said.

Yes, and what is the consequence ? '
asked Sir Henry. ' Why, your father looks
like an old man, and he is barely turned
fifty. Would you take him to be five-and-twenty
years older than I am ? '

And then Diana had to allow that she
would not.

But you are a strong man, grandpa.
You are stronger than papa ever was,' she
said.

I am stronger because I take better care
of myself,' said Sir Henry.

'And because you were born with a
stronger constitution,' retorted Diana, always
reluctant not to have the last word.

But her grandfather at this began to
chuckle, and she found that, unintentionally,
she had pleased him.

'Ay, ay — my constitution used to be
good enough. It's a different sort from
that white-livered fellow's over there,' he
said, and he pointed ruthlessly at Cecil,
who at this gentle address coloured like a
girl.

Grandpa,' said Diana boldly, ' that is
not a kind speech.'

But Sir Henry only laughed, and troubled
himself to make no other response.

How can he say such things to Cecil ?
How can he bear to be so cruel to him ? ' the
girl exclaimed indignantly to lier aunt, when

lie and Mrs. Elvers had left the room ; but
the poor down-trodden lady only glanced
nervously at Diana, with a scared look in her
pale eyes.

He is always like that,' she said hurriedly.
Her lips were quivering a little. ' We can't
help it; only it is hard for my poor boy — it is
hard for us both.'

I think it is cowardly ! ' cried Diana.
And then, in her young warm sympathy, she
suddenly put her arms about the other
woman's neck, and kissed her with such impulsive
and unnecessary energy that she left
the marks of her embrace behind her, for
Mrs. Eivers's cap, when she was released, had
gone visibly awry.

The timid lady backed a little ; she put
her hand hurriedly and instinctively to her
head. Diana's kiss no doubt had touched
her, for the tears had come to her eyes, but
it had frightened her too.

Oh, we mustn't complain — it doesn't do
to complain,' lie said in a deprecating way.
We have all something to bear, of course, —
and Cecil has many advantages. We mustn't
forget that — it never does to forget that.
Have you got your book, my dear ? ' And
she retreated a little further still, with so
scared and uneasy a look that Diana, though
she longed in her impulsive warmth to say
something more, after a moment's hesitation,
wisely held her peace.

'Yes, I have my book here,' she merely
answered, and sat down reluctantly and
began to read it, though with her thoughts
wandering, and going into ardent plans for
the social reformation of this most imperfect
household, such as carried her attention far
enough away from the hero and heroine of
her tale.

When are you going to let me play to
you, cousin?' Cecil shyly asked her before

the evening came to an end, and she answered
good-naturedly —

Oh, tomorrow, if you like ; ' and soon
the morrow, under Cecil's guidance, she
climbed again up the turret stair to the old
school-room, and let the lad display his gifts
before her.

It was the young man's habit to spend
a great part of his time in this upper room,
where he could play his fiddle unheard, or
almost unheard, by Sir Henry, to his heart's
content.

You see I have put felt round the
windows and the door,' he said to Diana ina
tone of satisfaction, ' to prevent the sound
going out.'

Is that good for — for the effect ? ' she
inquired ignorantly.

For the effect ! ' cried Cecil. ' It is good
to prevent my grandfather from hearing.'

And then Diana said ' Oh ! ' and felt

ashamed. But in truth her musical education
had been much neglected.

It was a pleasant room, and she sat down
by one of the windows, whence she could
look over a wide view of miles of country,
spread out before her like a map. The
prospect would interest her, she thought,
should Cecil's performance fail to do so. But
Cecil's performance, she in a few moments
found, afforded her quite interest enough.

For in truth the boy, whatever his faults of
execution might be — and in a musician's sight
they would no doubt have been manifold —
possessed the gift of drawing such tones out
of his instrument that Diana soon listened
charmed — her heart filled with a pleasure that
no musical performance in lier poor experience
had ever before given her — her mind
filled with amazement. The half pity and
half contempt that she had hitherto felt for
her young cousin became both absorbed for

VOL. I. E

the moment in a new feeling of wonder. She
sat staring at him while he played with
unmitigated surprise, startled out of all
ordinary courtesy by her extreme astonishment.


Why, Cecil ! ' she exclaimed, as soon asa
pause in the music came ; she never thought
of thanking or praising him, she was too
much absorbed in her surprise for that —
Why, Cecil, how have you ever learnt to
play in this way ? '

I learnt from my father,' he said. ' My
father was a splendid musician. Both my
violins were his. He left them to me. I
always think he must have had some real
genius. Of course I was too young really to
know, but nothing has ever moved me as his
playing did. I wish you could have heard
him.'

It seems to me to be enough to be able
to hear you,' said Diana simply.

Oh, / am nothing,' cried the boy blushing.
'Everything I do is so full of faults. If
I could get some good teaching again indeed
But I can't, you know.'

Because of grandpa ? ' asked Diana
gravely, after a moment's silence.

Cecil nodded his head. He was peering
and frowning into his violin, but she did not
know whether or not his frowns were caused
by the earnestness with which he was apparently
examining it.

Oh dear,' she exclaimed, ' what a pity ! '

Do you think it is a pity ? ' he asked.
Her ejaculation seemed to please him. He
took up his instrument again, and executed
a happy little flourish on it. ' Are you tired,
or shall I play something else?' he asked
half-shyly.

Oh, play something else, certainly she
said.

And then lie began afresh.

She sat listening, genuinely delighted.

And yesterday I was pitying you ! ' she
exclaimed abruptly when he paused again.

Well ? ' he said. But he looked at her,
and smiled a little. ' Do I play better than
you expected, then? ' he simply asked.

Oh, a hundred times better,' she replied
with warmth. ' It seems to me wonderful,
quite wonderful, how you can do such
things ! '

And in truth she was immensely surprised,
and even moved. It was the first
time in all her life that she had ever heard
playing that had any passion in it, and it
affected her like a revelation. That this boy,
so weak and dull and purposeless as he had
seemed to her yesterday, should be able to
touch her as he had done now by the working
of his soul through his finger-tips, astonished
her with a profound astonishment. She continued
to look at him, as he put his violin

away, with the most extreme and unabated
curiosity. The fair boyish face was still
flushed, but the force and fire were leaving
it, and they died out as she watched him.
His expression became commonplace again,
gentle, quiet, a little weak and sad.

I wonder you don't play more. It seems
so strange,' he suddenly said.

Well, everybody can't play,' Diana retorted.


j^o, but when you are able to do it a
little, and when you like it, it seems such a
pity ! I wonder if you would let us practise
sometimes together ? ' and he looked hopefully
at her.

But Diana received this suggestion coolly.

It would be no use,' she said. ' How
could I practise with you, when I really know
nothing about music whatever ? '

But you could improve ! ' cried Cecil
with eagerness.

Diana shook her head. Except when
they were exhibiting their art, these musical
people, with their absorption in one subject,
tried one's temper, she thought.

I am too idle to improve,' she answered
with a laugh ; ' I don't care enough about it.
I like to hear good playing — playing like
yours — very much indeed ; but for myself,
I would rather read, or walk, or talk, or
sew, than practise. That seems very strange
to you, of course ? ' and indeed a very
grieved look had come over Cecil's face, ' but
I suppose,' said the girl suddenly with
a little malice, ' that I take after grand-papa,
whose musical taste has failed to be
developed.'

Oh, don't say that ! ' exclaimed Cecil ina
tone of pain.

Diana laughed again ; she rose up, feeling
perhaps a little weary. The excitement of
listening to her cousin's music was over, and
the temptation of listening to his conversation

was not one that inclined lier to give him anymore
of her company.

'Well, at any rate, I have had a very
delightful hour,' she said with kindness.

You have given me a very delightful
hour,' answered poor Cecil blushing.

But he still looked wistfully at her. He
would so gladly have kept her longer, if he
could have persuaded her to stay. He would
have played to her again if she had asked
Iii, or have talked to her about music unlimitedly.
But Diana, intentionally blind to
this, went her way remorselessly.

A curious creature ! Wonderfully flavourless
at most times, and yet with what a gift
for playing that fiddle of his ! ' she thought
to herself as she went downstairs. 'I wonder
now if he is a genius ! Geniuses, I believe,
are often bores, so perhaps he may be, — and
Aa//'-geniuses are sometimes desperately weak.
I should think he is a half-genius : he seems
to me amazingly like it.'

And then, when she reached the hall she
took up her hat, and went out into the fresh
air. The fresh air was a great relief, she
thought, after the closeness of the felted
room upstairs.

I wish I had something to do ! ' the girl
had already begun to think rather impatiently.
She was accustomed at home to lead an
active life, taking too many of the affairs of
the parish on her shoulders ever to suffer the
pains of idleness, but here at Wilmotes she
found herself unburdened by any creature's
concerns except her own, and the change,
upon the whole, she was conscious, did not
suit her. Here, in this alien region, she was
as a queen without a kingdom. 'Do you
do much amongst your poor people, aunt ? '
she had already inquired of Mrs. Eivers, but
her question had only elicited a reply of the
vaguest kind.

'N — o, not much, oh no — I am afraid I

don't. I — I don't think Sir Henry would like
it,' was all that Mrs. Eivers had said.

I should not think it could matter to him
much,' Diana had replied. 'I like going
amongst poor people. I have always been
used to it. I shall go and find out some old
women in the village, if I make anything like
a long visit here.'

And then a little while afterwards she
made some inquiries about the clergyman,
which poor Mrs. Eivers seemed to find at
least equally embarrassing.

Mr. Villiers is the Vicar,' she said. ' I
think he is a good man — oh yes, I am sure he
is a very good man, but — your grandfather
does not get on very well with him — indeed,
I am sorry to say, they had almost a quarrel
once '

Oh dear,' exclaimed Diana, ' that must
be very awkward ! Then — what does grand-papa
do about going to church ? '

He doesn't go, m}^ dear.'

'What— not at all?' And the Eector's
daughter, quite unused to such lax doings,
opened her eyes. ' But you go, Aunt Eivers,
don't you ? '

'I go sometimes.' A little pink colour
had come all over the poor lady's face. ' I
am afraid, my dear, it will shock you,' she
said hesitatingly, ' when you have been used
of course always to such regular ways, but
you see. Sir Henry is peculiar — and I have
lived a great deal abroad — and, in fact, the
truth is, we have fallen out of the habit of
going to church. When Sir Henry is not
friends with Mr. Villiers, it would be almost
awkward to go, you understand.'

'It might be awkward for him,' replied
Diana gravely. And then she paused and
thought a little. ' Of course, you know, /
shall go,' she said after a minute's silence.

Shall you, my dear ? ' Mrs. Eivers glanced

at her a little uneasily, and began to chafe
her hands. ' Well, naturally you would like
to go — of course I see that ; only I am afraid
if you do it will rather annoy your grandfather.'


He will be very silly if he lets it annoy
him.'

Well, but, Diana, you see he is prejudiced.
And then he likes people to fall in
with his ways.'

Ah, but / am not going to fall in with
his ways. I like my own ways. Aunt Elvers,'
said the girl, and began to laugh. 'You are
all so good here, you know, that you are
constantly giving way to grandpa, but I
am not good at all, and so I mean to do what
I like myself. , Really and seriously, dear
aunt, I don't think it is well to have no will
of one's own.'

My dear, I know it is not,' said the other
sadly.

But when she had said that she turned
away, and Diana saw her handkerchief go
furtively to her eyes as she left the room.

The girl looked after her with a sort of
impotent wrath. ' How can they be such
fools ! ' she exclaimed to herself impatiently.
Xo wonder he is a tyrant when they make
themselves slaves to him ! ' and her heart
swelled with indignation. She ought in justice,
perhaps, only to have been indignant
with her grandfather, but to tell the truth,
though she condemned him, of course, and
allowed that his ways were by no means ways
to be approved, there was within her bosom
a curious feeling of sympathy with him, that
made even his worst faults more interesting
to her than the tame virtues of the other two.

That this would have been so, had he on
his part ever treated her in the manner in
which he treated his daughter-in-law and his
grandson, it would certainly be too much to

say ; but lie had not so treated her from the
first, and already, before two days had passed
(and this fact, it must be allowed, considerably
affected her judgment of him), she had become
pretty clearly aware that her companionship
gave him a certain pleasure — that she amused
him — that, in short, rough though he might
be to her, he liked her in a way. For his
daughter-in-law and her son were dull to
the fiery old man as ditch water, but Diana
was as fresh and bright as a running stream.
She did not bore him ; she acted on him, on the
contrary, like a tonic ; his affections, it is true,
were too dead for her to touch them much,
but the love of pleasant things was still strong
in him. and he found lier pleasant ; her talk
entertained him, and relieved the lengthening
tedium of his days.

You don't care a bit about me for myself,
grandpa, but you are amused with me
because I say tidings that the others don't,'

she herself had already told him frankly.
You make the others afraid of you, and so
you find them dull, for people are always dull
when they are afraid — but you never make
me afraid. I can't think what people find
so terrifying in you, for my own part.' And
then she looked at him critically, and the
sardonic old man gave one of his grim laughs.

You can't, can't you ? ' he said. ' You
haven't heard the lion roar yet ? '

No. 1 have never heard him roar, except
feebly,' said Diana. ' But even if he where to
roar with all his might, what harm could he do
to me ? I can always go away. I have been
thinking over it, grandpa, and I have come
to the conclusion that you could not do anything,
try as you would, to make me really
afraid. You have no power over me. That
pleases me, do you know ? '

How can you tell that I have no power
over you ? ' asked Sir Henry, with a malicious

gleam in his eyes. 'What is it that gives
men most power? Have I not got
that?'

You have got money, if money is what
you mean,' said Diana bluntly. ' But, grand-papa,
money gives you no power over vie.
I suppose you think that it does, because, if
I behave so as to please you, you may say to
yourself that you may leave me a legacy in
your will, and, if I behave so as to displease
you, you won't give me a shilling ; but you
are wrong ! ' — and the girl broke out into bright
rippling laughter. ' I am poor, and I should
like a legacy very much ; but I will never try
to win one by fearing you, or making myself
a slave to you. I will go my own way, and
do what I like, and say what I like ; and if
that makes you angry you can tell me to
go home.'

I have a precious good mind to do it,' said
Sir Henry ; but he looked at her, nevertheless,

from under this fierce eyebrows more with
amusement than with anger.

Do you know,' said Diana, after a moment
or two's silence, and as she spoke she turned
her face towards him, and raised her eyes upto
his with the most innocent and confiding
look — ' do you know, I think we get on, on
the whole, wonderfully well ? We don't rile
one another — not really I mean— and we
make one another laugh. You can be very
nasty, I dare say, if you choose, but you
haven't yet been really nasty to me.'

Sir Henry burst into one of his rough
gufiaws. 'I ought to be gratified that you
approve of me, my lady,' he said.

Oh, I don't mean that I approve of you,'
explained Diana eagerly. ' That would be
saying a great deal too much. I only mean
that I like some things about you. I think —
well — yes — I think you are interesting. I
would a great deal rather talk to you than to
Cecil, you know.'

Well, I have not seen many signs of sense
in you yet, but that at least is one,' retorted
Sir Henry.

Yes — is it not ? ' Diana replied suavely.
So many girls, you know, would like Cecil
best. And, indeed,' she said thoughtfully,
he is a nice lad — and so amiable. Grand-papa,
if you didn't make yourself such a bear
to him you would like him very much.'

That's your opinion, is it ? ' growled
Sir Henry. 'We have so many sympathies
in common, I suppose you think ? '

Well, no ; I don't think you have many
sympathies in common, but I think you may
have more in common than you perhaps
suppose ; and, grandpa ' (and then, to tell
the truth, Diana took a fresh breath before she
finished her sentence), ' I think it is a cowardly
thing for the strong to oppress the weak.'

You seem to have a pretty high opinion
of your own judgment,' said Sir Henry.

VOL. I. S

But, though lie spoke quietly, this eyebrows
as he made this response met in an
ominous frown, and Diana, glancing at him
askance, saw a look she did not Hke about his
eyes.

'It is not my judgment. It is the judgment
of all generous people in the world,' she
nevertheless answered after a moment, steadily
enough.

Very possibly. But I make no profession
of being generous.'

'I dare say that is very wise of sou.
Grandpa' — and then she hesitated a little
' I should think you had rather a — pagan
kind of mind — haven't you ? You don't care
very much, I should imagine, about the
Christian virtues ? '

You seem to do me the honour of thinking
a good deal about me, my dear.'

Oh yes, I think a good deal about you,'
Diana assented readily. ' I think a great deal

about you. You interest me immensely. But,
you know, I don't think you are very — good.'

I should hope you don't,' said Sir Henry.

I am afraid you are dreadfully intolerant.
You seem to me to have no pity for anybody
who is — inferior to yourself.'

Precisely, my dear. I hate a fool.'

Well, I don't like fools myself ; but some
people whom you call fools may be much
better than you are, grandpa, — not so
strong, perhaps, but much kinder, and juster,
and more unprejudiced. I think you are
awfully prejudiced — and uncharitable.'

Have you about finished, young woman?'
asked Sir Henry.

Diana thought for a moment or two, and
then cheerfully nodded her head.

Well, I don't know that I have anything
else specially on my mind that I want to say
just now,' she answered. 'But you don't
mind my telling you these things — do you ? '

and she looked up brightly and confidently in
his face. ' I think it is so good for all of us
to be told our faults ; and I am sure you never
hear about yours from anybody else here —
do you? Even when we don't believe what
other people say of us, I feel that it sets us
thinking, you know ; and though perhaps
I am too young to have much business to
speak of things to you, still, you see, when

there is nobody else to do it, grandpa ?

And I am sure you may find as much fault
with me in return as ever you like,' cried the
girl, and looked up again at her companion in
the cheeriest way.

The old man burst into a laugh.

You are an impudent young baggage ! '
he said ; ' about as intolerable a specimen of
your pert and meddling sex as it has ever
been my lot to come across. Just wait a
little, and I'll give you tit for tat one of these
days, my lady ! '

*But not seriously, grandpa?' Diana
said.

Her bright eyes turned to his without a
trace of fear in them : she suddenly laughed
a little, and touched his arm half caressingly
with her hand.

'There is no harm in people sparring
together a little — when they like one another
is there ? ' she asked. ' And, grandpapa^
I do like you. If it were not for you I should
be so dreadfully dull here. I almost think I
should run away.'

If you want to run away, why the devil
don't you ? ' asked Sir Henry. ' Do you suppose
if you did that I should try to fetch you
back?'

Diana paused for a moment.

Well, I don't quite knows but I should
like to think that you would,' she modestly
replied.

AM very fond of walking,' said
Diana.

Then you must let Cecil take
some walks with you,' replied Mrs. Eivers.

But when her aunt said this Diana held
her peace. To tell the truth, the prospect of
taking walks with Cecil was one that did not
appeal to her; the young man's companionship,
to her energetic and buoyant nature, was
not attractive. ' I would far rather have no
companion at all,' she said to herself.

So, being very much accustomed to go her
way unaccompanied, she very quickly after
her arrival at Wilmotes began to take long.

exploring, solitary walks about the surrounding
country, and these walks she enjoyed
exceedingly.

She used to start upon them always when
Cecil was out of sight, and when she returned
from them she was, for so talkative and
frank a person, noticeably reserved. 'Yes,
I have been out,' she would say, but she
would always resolutely avoid enlarging
upon the direction that her steps had taken,
or the distance to which they had carried
her. This was cowardly, she sometimes felt,
but yet how could she do differently ? ' If
they knew what long walks I actually take,
they would both be down on me together.
I should never be able to get beyond the park
gates without having Cecil at my heels, and
I really could not stand that. It would be
almost as bad as having Mr. Stapleton,' she
would exclaim to herself with an impatience
that was selfish perhaps, but scarcely unnatural

; for she lead been accustomed to such
free and uncontrolled action all her life that
the thought of being arrested in that freedom,
and of having her steps dogged by a companion
whom she did not want, appeared to
her a very intolerable thing. ' I will be as
nice as I can to him at other times,' she told
herself, ' but I won't have him following me
about the country,' — and, not being wanting
in determination, she kept to this decision
manfully.

You are a dangerously independent young
person, it seems to me,' her grandfather, who
alone was in her confidence in the matter,
said to her with one of his curt laughs one
day. And she gave a bright laugh in return,
and —

I am independent but not dangerous,
grandpa,' she answered. 'If I don't like
to take walks with Cecil, you ought to
sympathise with me. You wouldn't like to

take walks with him yourself.' And then she
thought she had silenced him. But she had
only silenced him for a moment. To her
surprise he said suddenly —

I am an old man, and what an old man
likes is not what young women like. I should
have thought you would have been pleased
enough to have that young fellow dangling
after you.'

What — Cecil ? ' cried Diana, opening her
eyes.

Yes, Cecil,' said Sir Henry. ' Why not ? '

And then he struck his staff on the ground,
and turned round and looked Diana in the
face, with something in his gaze that made
her colour rise.

But she was ashamed because her colour
rose, and in her vexation she knitted her brows.

Grandpa,' don't talk in that way,' she
said. ' It is talk I don't like.'

Height totality ! ' cried Sir Henry.

And I am not used to it either,' the girl
persisted, still frowning. ' I hate jokes of
that sort.'

Hey dey ! The world must be turned
upside down,' said Sir Henry.

And if it is — in some ways, so much the
better,' retorted Diana, and went off with the
blood tingling in her veins.

She went for one of her solitary walks,
for she was a little discomposed, and she
wanted to recover herself Her grandfather
had suggested an idea to her that she found
especially distasteful, and she was angry, and
felt that she had need of the sight of pleasant
and distracting things that she might shake
off her anger, and cast his suggestion out of
her mind. So she went for a long walk over
those wide, undulating moors, whose wild,
unfamiliar beauty was already beginning to
attract her with a wonderfully strong attraction,
and as she walked her temper gradually

recovered its tone, and her ruffled spirit regained
its composure.

It was a soft spring day, and the west
wind blew in her face and quickened her
spirits : she became very happy as her light,
springy step carried her along. ' It must be
dreary and bleak here in winter,' she thought
' but oh, how beautiful it is now ! — and how
delightful it is to be in the midst of it all
alone! I should like to have my dear old
father with me — I should like that, — and he
would like it too ; but I don't want anybody
else. I wonder whether I should be happier
if I did want some one ! Sometimes it seems a
little sad ' [

And then unconsciously the girl went off
into a dream that made her for a few minutes
forget the place in which she was. Should
she ever want anybody else I she wondered.
The thought was one that sometimes crossed
her mind — that she dwelt on sometimes

for a little while, and then peremptorily dismissed.


It was afternoon : she looked at her watch
after a time, and found that it was five o'clock.
I must be going home,' she thought reluctantly,
and turned and retraced her steps.
She had perfectly recovered her good humour,
and she went along light-heartedly, singing
sometimes softly to herself.

She was not a dreamer generally, but for
the most part very observant and quick-eyed,
eager to gather fresh impressions, and rapid
in taking note of what was to be seen around
her. She went homewards now with her
vision all alert. ' There is more colour on
the moors to-day than I have seen yet,' she
thought. ' I should like to see them two or
three months after this — in August, when the
heather is in bloom. Only they will be shooting
the grouse then, — and I like best to see the
grouse tame, as they are now, not thinking of

being shot. There are two at this moment
sitting over there on that boulder looking as
bold as brass. I do believe they would almost
let me go up to them.' And with a laugh
she stood still for a moment or two, and then
cautiously began to try how near the birds
would permit her to approach.

They allowed her to advance for some
twenty yards, and then composedly rose, and
took their lazy flight. But when they were
gone, Diana looked about her, and near at
hand a deep hollow caught her eye, with precipitous,
hewn sides, which the spirit of curiosity
prompted her to investigate. ' I believe
it is a quarry,' she said to herself; ' quarries
are very pretty sometimes : ' and so she went
forward with some interest, and peeped down
into it.

It was a quarry certainly, but one that
Diana concluded had been exhausted or
deserted, for there were no signs of any other

labour being carried on in it than the labour
of a little child, who with much energy and
solemnity was steering himself across a pool
of water that lay in the bottom, on a very
small and precarious-looking raft.

Good gracious, what an unsafe thing for
that little scamp to be doing ! ' cried Diana
to herself as this sight caught her eye, and
she stood gazing down, doubtful for a few
moments whether to remonstrate with the
small urchin or to pass on. Her remonstrance
might do no good, she reflected ; but yet she
had a natural instinct for the reforming of
wrong-doers ; so after remaining for a little
while irresolute she raised her voice and called
to the culprit below.

Child, you should not be doing that ! ' she
exclaimed.

The boy gave a start at her address, and
with his start almost lost his balance.

Oh ! ' cried Diana at this.

What are you holloing out for ? ' he
shouted.

I say, you shouldn't be dohig that ! ' reiterated
Diana. ' Don't you know that if this
thing you are on were to go over you would
be drowned ? '

No, I shouldn't,' said the boy stoutly.

How deep is the water ? ' demanded
Diana.

'I don't know,' answered the lad.

Then how can you say that you
wouldn't be drowned ? ' asked Diana indignantly.
'I am afraid you are a naughty
little boy, and are doing what join know you
shouldn't. I am coming down to speak to
you.' And with that she descended.

It was rather a rough and difficult
descent, but she accomplished it in the
course of a few minutes, and reached the
edge of the water. The boy — he was a little
fellow of five or six — had watched her

approach with curiosity. Safe on the raft
in the middle of the pool — it was some thirty
feet or so across — he could afford, he apparently
thought, to survey her proceedings
with equanimity.

Now,' said Diana, in a tone of authority
judiciously mingled with kindness, when she
had reached the edge of the water, — and as
she spoke she stretched out her hand, hoping
no doubt by that gesture to create a feeling
of confidence, — ' now then, bring your raft
in here, and come off it. I don't believe you
have any business to be doing this at all.'
For she had surveyed him, and had perceived
that he was not a little boy belonging to the
vagrant classes who do anything, nor even to
the working classes who do a good deal, but to
her own class, who in their tender years are
looked after, and kept carefully by nurses
and mothers from all such pranks as the one
this little man was indulging in. ' Come

along — come quickly ! ' said Diana, and kept
her inviting hand extended coaxingly.

But the youngster only, as before, sat
still in the middle of the pond, and stared.
He was a handsome, sturdy boy, and having
got over the amazement and slight dismay
that her first appearance had caused him,
seemed quite aware of the strength of his
position, and took advantage of it accordingly.


Diana felt a little puzzled. She was not
accustomed to be disobeyed ; she had also a
strong sense of duty, and of her obligations
towards her fellow-creatures ; to leave this
child in danger was, as it seemed to her, a
thing not to be thought of.

I hope you are not going to be so
naughty as not to do what I tell you,' she
said gravely, after a little silence. ' I am
quite sure you ought not to be here all by
yourself, and if you don't obey me at once

VOL. I. T

I shall find out who you are, and tell your

father. Now '

But at this point Diana's address was
interrupted by a laugh of derision from the
urchin.

I haven't got a father ! ' he shouted
jubilant.

Diana was rather taken aback by this ;
but she did not show it.

Then I will tell your mother,' she retorted,
shooting another arrow at a venture.

To this threat the boy made no response,
and Diana felt in consequence that her shot
had told. So she went on : ' And you know
she will be very angry.'

No, she won't,' said the child. But he
began silently next moment to steer his raft
a little inland — not towards Diana, indeed,
but towards the dry ground furthest from
her.

She's never angry,' he added after a

moment, half defiantly. ' She's — sorry —
sometimes.'

Then I wonder,' answered Diana, ' that
you can like to make her sorry.'

After this there was a pause for a few
seconds. The boy, with the aid of a pole
that he had got, slowly steered his raft across
the pond. It was a tolerably long pole, and
Diana was alarmed to find how deep it went
down into the water. ' If he should overbalance
himself, and that wretched little raft
should go over, he would be drowned to a
certainty,' she said to herself with much
concern ; and presently, as he pursued his
irregular course, for, to tell the truth, he
managed his rickety craft with but small
skill, she stole surreptitiously after him
round the pool, keeping her eye upon him
anxiously.

Of course after a few moments he perceived
what she was about, and his discovery

of her tactics instantly roused this infantile
wrath.

What are you coming after me for ?
I wish you'd get away ! ' he said indignantly.


I shall not get away,' replied Diana with
gravity, ' till I take you away with me. So
now, then, like a good boy, bring your raft
in, and we will go home together.'

Upon this, however — the prospect held
out to him being, apparently, not an enticing
one — the little lad at once steered away in
silence with all his might in quite an opposite
direction, and had soon put nearly all the
width of the pond between himself and his
tormentor.

Perhaps Diana felt that her position had
become slightly undignified ; but she had a
great deal of determination, and was not
accustomed to be conquered ; so she sat down
suddenly on a convenient boulder, and without

losing her temper, folded her hands upon
her knees composedly.

I am not going away till I see you safe
off that piece of water,' she said. 'You
know you are doing what would make your
mother very sorry if she knew of it ; but I see
you don't care about making your mother
sorry.'

And then the boy made no response, but
perhaps Diana's reproach touched his little
heart, for he hovered about the shore, and
his movements seemed to denote a certain
amount of mental hesitation.

Diana wisely sat still, and said no more.
For several minutes there was a truce between
the combatants. The boy remained motionless
on his raft, which was now very near the
edge of the water, and with affected ease,
but very imperfect skill, began presently to
attempt to whistle. Diana, at the opposite
side of the pool, sat watchful.

Suddenly, after five inactive minutes had
passed in this way, she sprang to her feet and
made a rapid sally. She had calculated
hopefully that before the little lad could perceive
her design and remove himself out of
her reach, she might pounce down on him
and catch him ; but she calculated without
her host, for, seeing her fleet approach, he
too jumped up quick as thought, and, seizing
his pole, had already plunged it into the water,
and was in the very act of escaping when,
roused to a supreme effort, Diana flung herself
suddenly forward, and, catching at the
raft, all at once, through the violence of her
attack, upset it, and, with the shock, precipitated
both herself and the child into the
pool.

Here was indeed a catastrophe. She
struggled in a second or two to her feet,
gasping, and not a little alarmed at what she
and accomplished ; though her first alarm was

slight compared with what it became a moment
afterwards, when she found that the boy,
instead of being close beside her, had been
shot to a distance of some ten or twelve feet,
and into a place where the water was apparently
deep enough to drown him.

Perhaps, seeing that she was at hand, he
was in reality in no great danger ; but Diana,
in her sudden terror, dared not believe this ;
and, with an emotion that was little short of
agony, she plunged forward till she was
immersed almost up to her own shoulders,
and with passionate energy caught the child,
by the hair of his head first, and then by his
struggling arms, and never paused till, he
still struggling and she panting, she had
brought him safe to shore. After which she
dropped down on the gravel by the water side,
and as the frightened boy roared lustily, — not,
perhaps, without good cause, — it was almost
as much as she could do in her nervous

excitement to keep herself from crying
too.

The adventure was a humiliating one ;
though, in these first moments of thankfulness
for its happy termination, perhaps she hardly
realised that. The day was fairly cool, and
they were both well wet to the skin ; and,
when she began to think again of common
practical things, she wisely thought first of
all that they had better try to get themselves
dried with no more delay than was possible.
So, after she had convulsively hugged the
boy for about half a minute, she suddenly
jumped again to her feet, and, ' We must get
home now as fast as ever we can,' she exclaimed.
' We must both run, and then we
shan't catch cold. Come away ! You must
take me to your house, for I don't know
where you live.'

She caught his hand, and they set off
together. Her dripping skirts, clinging close

round her, made running far from an easy
exercise ; but she ran a little way, and
stopped and wrung them, and then ran a
little way again, and stopped and wrung
them again. And so, more quickly than
might have been expected, they got over the
ground, and in a quarter of an hour had
reached the outskirts of the village, and were
near the house where the little fellow informed
her that he lived. ' A white house ina
garden. It's Uncle Brydon's. Don't you
know it ? ' he said.

No — I don't know it ; but it will be
all right if you can take us there,' Diana
answered ; and so, each still holding the
other's hand tight clasped — for, ever since his
ducking, the little lad, entirely subdued, had
clung fast to her — they continued their 
flight (to the amazement of the
few persons whom they met), till, with the
colour bright in her face from excitement and

shame combined, Diana and lier small companion
at last reached the house that was the
goal of their steps.

As the child had said, it was a white
house standing in a garden, and as they
entered through the open gate a lady who
was in the garden saw them, and at the same
moment, he also seeing her, the little lad
gave a loud shout of ' Mother ! ' and,
suddenly freeing himself from Diana's hand,
rushed forward, and flung himself into her
arms.

Mother, we've both been in the water ! '
he cried, in supreme excitement.

In the water, Bertie ! ' gasped the lady.

Yes, she and me ! We both tumbled in ! '

My child ! my child ! ' cried the lady in
consternation, clasping him to her, and looking
from him to Diana, and then back again
to the little face which was raised to hers, all
hot as fire.

Yes, we fell in,' Diana corroborated,
coming hastily up. ' It was at the quarry —
up there on the moors. I found your little
boy sailing about on a raft, and I thought it
was not safe, and I tried to get him off, and —
and '

Oh, how can I thank you ? ' cried the
lady, with gratitude and terror beaming from
her eyes.

I am afraid you have not much to thank
me for,' murmured Diana, almost hanging her
head. But the lady took no notice of this
speech, and only continued passionately to
kiss her child and to regard Diana with
enthusiasm.

Oh, my darling, my darling, how could
you go to such a place ? Your uncle told me
you were only playing with Willie Anstey.
If this kind, kind lady had not saved you, you
would have been drowned ! ' lie almost
sobbed.

Young Master Bertie had, however, by
this time a little recovered the natural tone
of his mind ; and, not having come yet to
regard Diana as his deliverer, the presentation
of her in this light rather staggered him.
He looked up with wide-open eyes into his
mother's face.

But it was she pushed me in ! ' he said,
in astonished explanation.

Oh, Bertie ! ' cried his mother, aghast at
this charge ; and poor Diana, as she heard it,
flushed to the roots of her hair.

I didn't push him in,' she hurriedly exclaimed
; ' but I will tell you what he means
presently. We are both so wet just now.'

Oh yes — yes — come in and get off your
things. To think that I should keep you
standing here ! ' cried the embarrassed lady.
And then she hurried them to the house,
and, collecting her scattered wits, did all for
them that kindness and common sense could

do ; so that within half an hour Master Bertie,
bathed and comforted, was safe in bed and
fast asleep, and Diana, clothed in motley
garments, and having declined to go to bed,
was seated in an ample arm-chair by a
blazing fire.

And it was from this arm-chair that — not
without humiliation — she told her story.
Her auditors were two, — Dr. Brydon, the
master of the house, and the resident doctor
in the village, and the lady she had already
seen, who was his sister, and also, although
married, bore the same name.

Dr. Brydon received Diana, when she descended
from the room in which she had been
clothing herself, with grave politeness, but
with none of the effusion that had marked his
sister's reception of her. He had, perhaps,
already had some conversation with his
nephew on the subject of his recent adventure,
and, as a medical man, lead possibly,

from Bertie's account, begun to entertain some
slight doubts of the sanity of his unlooked-for
guest. When the girl came into the
room he merely bowed to her, and made a
single brief inquiry as to the present comfort
of her bodily condition ; after which
he sat down, and for some few minutes held
his peace.

But Mrs. Brydon was still full of gratitude,
though perhaps perplexed a little, and
she took Diana by both hands, and brought
her to the fire, and pressed refreshments on
her, and asked her no questions till Diana
herself, not without confusion, began her
rather awkward explanation — for acts that are
done in the warmth of excited feeling sound
sometimes singularly foolish and uncalled for
when they are related afterwards in cool
blood, and the girl had already acquired a
pretty clear perception that the part she had
played an hour ago had been not only unnecessary,

but had also been performed with
curiously bad success.

I want to tell you how this stupid business
happened,' she began abruptly, glancing
for a moment, perhaps more deprecatingly
than she knew, at both her hearers, and then
letting her eyes rest on Mrs. Brydon, as no
doubt the more sympathetic of the two. ' I
was so uneasy when I saw your little boy
upon that raft, because it looked so unsafe, I
thought.'

'Oh, of course it was unsafe ! ' Mrs.
Brydon murmured.

And so I tried to get him to come
off.'

He told me so. How good you were ! '
said the gentle lady.

Yes, but I am afraid I did not manage
well, for he was — obstinate, you know.'

Oh, Bertie, Bertie ! ' sighed his mother.

And afterwards, at the last, just when I

thought — I mean when the raft was so near
the edge of the water that I had almost
caught it — then suddenly — I don't know how
it happened, but he tried to escape, and I
tried to pull him back, and all at once the
wretched little raft went over, and he was in
the water.'

And then you went in after him, and
saved him,' cried Mrs. Brydon, still in tones of
ardent gratitude.

But Diana looked at her wistfully, and fora
moment also looked again at her brother.

Oh, of course I went in after him,' she
said, with something in her tone a long way
removed from self-satisfaction ; ' but if I had
not gone near him at all he would have got
home all right, I dare say ; and so, though I
meant to do good by my interference, I am
afraid I only really did harm.'

Ah, but you can't tell that ! ' exclaimed
Mrs. Brydon warmly ; ' and you know it was so

very, very wrong of him, and he knew it too,
to go to that dangerous place all alone

Yes,' interrupted Dr. Brydon, opening
his hips for the first time, ' and I am very glad
he has brought something on himself that he
will remember. I am heartily glad he has
had a ducking and a fright. They will both
be very salutary experiences for him.'

'If no harm should come of them — oh
yes ! ' said his mother quickly.

And we are grateful to sou,' said Dr.
Brydon, turning towards Diana, ' for what
you tried to do.'

Yes,' exclaimed the girl, suddenly and
almost bitterly ; ' but I am ashamed to think
of how I failed in doing it. It is a miserable
thing only to have good intentions.'

We all have to endure that limitation
sometimes,' said Dr. Brydon. And then he
seemed to consider for a moment or two, and

VOL. I. XJ

after that little pause added more cordially,
I think in this case you have not much to
blame yourself for. The young rascal might
have fallen into the water if you had not
been there, and then there would have been
nobody to pick him out.'

Ah, yes, indeed he might ! ' cried Mrs.
Brydon fervently.

You are both very kind to me,' said
Diana after a little silence, with genuine if
unusual humility. And then the next
moment she raised her eyes to the clock on
the mantel-piece, and — ' Oh ! ' she exclaimed,
it is very late. They will be wondering
what has become of me. I — I should think I
could walk home in this gown, if you would
let me ; couldn't I ? ' And she looked inquiringly,
though perhaps a little dubiously,
into Mrs. Bry don's face ; for in truth nature
had not cast that lady by any means in the
same mould as Diana, and the skirt that the

girl had been given to put on barely reached
down to her ankles.

Before Mrs. Brydon could answer her
question —

^ Where is it that you want to walk to ? '
Dr. Brydon abruptly asked.

She had forgotten perhaps that they did
not know.

Oh — to Wilmotes House,' she answered.
And then she was conscious that the eyes of
both of them turned on her with a little visible
surprise.

Are you staying at Wihiiotes ? ' asked
Dr. Brydon.

Yes,' said Diana.

She paused for a second, and then added
with a slight hesitation : ' I am Sir Henry
Eivers's granddaughter.'

I didn't know he had one,' returned Dr.
Brydon bluntly. ' You have never been here
before, have you ? '

TJ 2

No,' replied Diana ; ' never.'

There was a moment's silence ; then — ' I
will drive you over,' he said. ' If you think
you ought to start now I will order the trap at
once.'

For a second it occurred to Diana to object
to this arrangement ; then she changed her
mind.

If you can drive me home without inconvenience
I shall be glad,' she said simply. ' It
would perhaps be a little awkward to walk.'

Oh, we should never think of letting you
walk,' exclaimed Mrs. Brydon. ' I am only
sorry that you must go at once.'

But it struck Diana that, though the
words were said cordially, their tone betrayed
a certain timidity and almost embarrassment.
There was a curiously sad and timid look
generally too, as she had already noticed, in
Mrs. Brydon's otherwise very attractive face —
a peculiar look, it seemed to her, as of apprehension

and uncertainty. ' I suppose she has
been left a widow with this ore boy, and that
he is on her nerves,' was the explanation of it
that had occurred to the girl. And certainly,
so far as her own experience of him had gone,
Master Bertie was a youngster calculated to
have that effect upon a widowed mother in an
unusually high degree.

They went upstairs together, and when Mrs.
Brydon had looked out some wraps for Diana,
and had clothed her in them, the girl suddenly
took her hand and said cordially :

I hope you will forgive me for what I did
so stupidly to-day, and that you will let me
come again and see you ? '

Oh, don't say that you Averse stupid ! —
when you were so good — so very kind and
good,' exclaimed Mrs. Brydon at this address :
but when she had got so far she suddenly
paused, and instead of continuing to look at
Diana her eyes fell. ' But you mustn't talk

about my letting you come again,' she
hurriedly added. 'I am afraid — when you
know — you won't want to come.'

When I know — what ? ' asked the girl, surprised
into a blunt inquiry ; but the other
only shook her head.

No, no — never mind — you will hear soon,'
was all she answered half aloud : and then,
as if to prevent any further questions, she
turned hastily towards the door.

Diana went downstairs, puzzled and silent.
The trap was already waiting, and she exchanged
little further beyond a parting salutation
with Mrs. Br yd on. But her nature was
a generous one, and she intentionally made
that salutation markedly warm. Then she
took her seat by Dr. Brydon's side. ' What
can she possibly mean ? I must ask Aunt
Elvers,' she was thinking to herself.

She found Dr. Brydon a sensible and pleasant
enough companion. He talked about the

district, and she thought his talk was not uninteresting.
He asked her also some few questions
about herself, very frankly

Where have you come from ? ' he
inquired, and she told him.

It is not your father who is a Elvers, is
it?' he asked next, and when she answered
No,' he seemed to search his memory for a few
moments, and then said that he believed he
had heard of her father's marriage, but it was
an event that had taken place long before he
knew Wilmotes.

'How long have you known Wilmotes?'
Diana asked upon this, and he replied :

About half a dozen years.'

And — do you — are you grandpa's
doctor ? ' she inquired, with a little hesitation.

He gave a laugh before he answered this
question.

Oh yes, I look after him,' he said. 'He
is not very fond of me, but he finds himself

obliged to send for me now and then, when his
gout gets troublesome. I imagine his gout is
pretty quiet just now ? '

I think it is,' replied Diana. ' I should
think he was very well indeed.'

Ah ! ' replied Dr. Brydon : but Diana
felt that she was doubtful as to what the
ejaculation meant.

They drove up to the house, and Dr.
Brydon parted from her at the door.

You won't come in ? ' Diana asked him
hesitatingly.

He gave a smile and shook his head. ' No,
no, I don't go in here unless I am sent for
he answered promptly. ' Good afternoon. I
hope sincerely that you won't be any the
worse for your wetting. If unfortunately you
should be, you must let me know, but I hope
there will be no need for that.'

Oh no ! I am sure there will be no need
for it,' said Diana, rather shamefacedly.

She was still attired in Mrs. Brydon's skirts,
and conscious of her curious appearance she
slipped into the house and sped upstairs as
hastily as she could to change her garments,
and it was only after this was done that she
went in search of Mrs. Eivers, and made
confession to her of her afternoon's adventure,
about which, to tell the truth, she was by this
time not a little ashamed.

I am afraid I have been making a goose
of myself,' she preluded her confession by
remarking, and then she told her story ; and
when she reached that part of it in which
she described how she and her rebellious-charge
had arrived at Dr. Brydon's house
and been received by Bertie's mother, she
became aware that a look of uneasiness had
come into Mrs. Eivers's face.

Dear me ! you don't mean that it
was Mrs. Brydon's child ? ' she exclaimed
quickly.

Yes, it was ; why should it not have
been ? ' replied Diana. And then she looked
with much curiosity into Mrs. Eivers's face.
What is there peculiar about Mrs. Brydon,
aunt ? Is it something about her marriage ?
Had she a bad husband ? '

Mrs. Eivers — unconsciously perhaps —
straightened her back ; her face all at once
took an expression of rigid virtue.

My dear,' she said, sinking her voice
almost to a whisper, ' she has had — no husband.'


Diana looked at her, knitting her brows ;
for a moment or two she failed to comprehend
the significance of this response.

No husband ? ' she merely repeated slowly.
Do you mean that he is dead ? '

No, no,' said Mrs. Eivers, and then she
cleared her throat. 'I mean that — Mrs.
Brydon is a person who is not visited.'

Good gracious ! ' cried Diana. The colour

came to her face. ' But, Aunt Elvers, I — I
don't understand ! How can Dr. Brydonhave
a sister of — that sort ? '

Mrs. Elvers mournfully shook her head.

'He can't help it, Diana. Of course, it
is a great misfortune ; for he is a very respectable
man, I believe.'

'But, if she is not a respectable ivoman^
why does he have her to live with him ? '

My dear, I would not exactly say that
she is not a respectable woman. Poor thing !
I don't pretend to judge her. She fell into
the hands of a very bad man, I believe, — a
man who, after she married him, was found
to have been already married to someone
else '

Oil, but, Aunt Elvers, if that is it all,' exclaimed
Diana, interrupting her in a tone of
relief — ' why, if tJiat is it all, I can't see why
people shouldn't be friendly with her ! '

Well, but, Diana, you surely perceive

that it is a very awkward case ? ' said Mrs.
Eivers.

Awkward ? Oh yes, it is awkward, I
allow that ; and in a country place, where
everything gets so known, and talked of, and
exaggerated, no doubt it is very awkward
indeed. Yet surely, aunt, if you and one or
two more people of position would take her
up '

But the expression of Mrs. Eivers's face
arrested Diana suddenly in the midst of this
ardent speech.

Oh, my dear,' she ejaculated deprecatingly,
' I couldn't do that ! I could never
take such a thing upon me, — and your grandfather
wouldn't hear of it. He is so angry
already with Dr. Brydon for having brought
his sister here at all. He thinks it is an insult
to the place ; and such a bad example, too, —
making people think too lightly of immorality,
you know.'

But, aunt, she has not been immoral.'

No, no ; perhaps not intentionally. But
you see, Diana, the child is illegitimate.
There is no getting over that fact.'

And then for a few moments Diana held
her peace, and in her heart, at any rate,
allowed that that fact was indeed a difficult
one to get over.

But still, if people would but be kind, it
seemed to the generous girl that its difficulty
might be surmounted, for was it not a cruel
thing to visit his father's sins on this poor
little innocent lad ?

'Is there nobody who is kind to them,
aunt ? Has no one taken them up ? ' she
asked suddenly in her impetuous way.

Her persistence seemed to try the poor
lady.

I believe that one or two have,' she said
uneasily. ' I have heard that the Russell
have had them at the Grange, and I think

that Mrs. Westbrook, of Lowton, has been
kind to them. But you see, Diana, it is so
difficult. So many people would not like to
go to houses where they thought they might
meet Mrs. Brydon ; and it is so dreadfully
awkward to have acquaintances whom your
other acquaintances would not speak to, —
especially in a small place like this. Oh,
there has been a great deal of talk about the
whole matter here, I can tell you, and a good
many people have been very much offended
with Dr. Brydon. You know he was in very
good society. He is a gentlemanly man,
and people liked him, but now they don't
know what to do about continuing to invite
him to their houses. They feel, you see,
that he has put himself into such a very
awkward and difficult position.'

I respect him for it,' said Diana bluntly.

Well, you may respect him, but it is
embarrassing. I think you must surely allow

that,' returned Mrs. Elvers almost fretfully.
And many persons think that he had really
no right, placed as he is — being the doctor
here, I mean, and so being acquainted in a
way with everybody — to bring his sister into
the parish at all. That is quite your grandfather's
opinion. I am sorry to say he is
very angry with Dr. Brydon.'

Well, / think Dr. Brydon has been very
generous and very brave,' said Diana firmly
after a little silence. 'Perhaps he may not
have been quite wise — I don't know about
that — but he can't be a coward.'

Oh no ; he is no coward,' answered Mrs.
Elvers.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

H. .els

PRINTED BY
SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-street SQUARE

london

msmi^

OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS

S23
M4GSci

VOL. II.

apomswoouE and co., new-street square

J.OXDOX

BY

Georgians M. CEAIK

(iIRS A. W. MAY)

AUTHOR OF 'A DAUGHTER OF THE PEOPLE' ' Godfrey HELSTOXE' ETC.

IN There VOLUMES

VOL. II.

LONDON

Richard BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON STREET

publishers in ordinary to ptr Majesty tbf Cjiutn



All J-ighls reserved

m-

-^'^^■-■:^-

-u- 'J--J- 'J- "J- xr 'J- "J--LT-J- XT tr-vT tr -j-tr tr -y xr-j- xr xr xr xr xr-u--tr -

:v=>q=c:S

DIANA

CHAPTEE I

HALL I say anything about this
to grandpa ? ' Diana questioned
with herself — and she could not
at first make up her mind whether she would
do so or not ; but before she had finished
dressing for dinner she resolved that she
would say something, and so as soon as she
met him in the drawing-room, before the
gong had sounded, she made her announcement
in the briefest and most matter-of-fact

way.

VOL

IL

B

Grandpa,' she said, ' I tumbled into
the water this afternoon

Ah ! ' replied Sir Henrys, coolly. ' And
what put it into your head to do that?'

And then she told her story.

Well — I saw a little boy at that quarry
beyond the village sailing on a raft, and I
thought he would be drowned '

You had better have let him be drowned,
then,' said Sir Henry. ' There are boys
enough in the world, in all conscience.'

Yes, no doubt, grandpa ; and, indeed,
this one seemed an awful little Turk ;
but then, you see, I thought of his mother.'


His mother, I dare say, would have taken
his decease very philosophically, my dear.'

Oh no, sir, you are wrong there, for
when we had both had a ducking I took him
home — to explain about how he was so wet,
you know — and I never saw a woman ina

greater state of rapture.' Diana paused
for a moment. ' She was that poor Mrs.
Brydon.'

Sir Henry shot out a sudden glance at his
granddaughter from under his bushy brows ;
then he contracted them sharply.

You had no . business to go and see Mrs.
Brydon,' he said. ' She is a woman you have
nothing to do with.'

She is a very nice woman,' Diana replied
quietly, ' and Aunt Rivers tells me she has
had a very sad story. I don't suppose she
was to blame in what happened to her — do
you think she wa.« ? '

What should / know about her ? '
growled Sir Henry.

Oh,' said Diana innocently, ' I thought
you spoke as if you considered her to blame ?
Poor thing ! it seems to me that cases like
hers are so dreadfully hard.'

If women were not fools,' retorted Sir

Henry, ' cases like hers, you may be sure,
would be few enough.'

Do you think that ? ' asked Diana ; and
she put her question so meekly that, as the
dinner gong sounded at the same moment, it
failed even to rouse Sir Henry to a response.
So they went into the dining-room, and the
subject dropped.

The next morning Diana packed up her
borrowed clothing, and with a cordial note of
thanks returned the parcel to Mrs. Brydon.
As she wrote her note she hesitated a little
over the wording of it. She longed to say
frankly to her new acquaintance that she was
coming again to see her, but yet she feared to
say this, lest she should be prevented from
keeping her word. So, after a little consideration,
she ended by merely writing
vaguely — ' I hope I may see you again soon.'
By that expression she avoided making any
promise that she might be unable to fulfil.

But she continued to think a good deal
about Mrs. Breton, and, having been accustomed
for so long to concern herself with the
troubles and the affairs of those amongst
whom she Heed, she was pursued by a strong
and very persistent longing to do something
for the comfort of this poor and hardly-treated
lady, and in some way or other to
try and ameliorate the sadness of her lot.
Grandpa did not tell me not to go and see
her,' she argued with herself. ' I wonder if
it would be wrong in me to ^o P ' And she
pondered more than a little over this question,
and though she suspected very strongly
that she had no right to make acquaintances
of whom her grandfather disapproved so long
as she was living in his house, yet in her
energetic sympathy she could hardly keep
her steps away from Dr. Brydon's door.

And in fact before long she failed to keep
them away. The second day after her

tumble into the pond was Sunday, and she
went to church, pleased with the thought
that she should see Mrs. Brydon there. But,
to her disappointment, so far as she could
perceive, Mrs. Brydon was not there, and
neither was Dr. Brydon, nor Bertie.

You certainly seem a godless sort of
community here ! ' she said, when the service
was over, with some asperity, to Cecil, who
had placed himself in attendance on her.
You none of you go to church at grand-papa's,
and neither apparently do Dr. Brydon
nor his family go.'

Oh, Mrs. Brydon was there,' Cecil responded
meekly to this attack. ' I saw her
come in just before the bell stopped.'

Why, where did she sit then ? ' asked
Diana briskly.

But Cecil could not tell her this. His
own attendances at Divine service were too
rare for him to know the positions of his

neighbours' pews. ' She was somewhere
behind me, I think,' was the only information
he could give. ' She would probably like to
sit rather far back, you know,' he added after
a moment.

I don't see why she should,' retorted
Diana quickly. And then she suddenly
arrested her steps, and turned round. ' I
dare say she is behind us now,' she said.

Oh yes, I daresay she is,' responded
Cecil.

'Then just wait and look for her,' commanded
Diana peremptorily ; and Cecil, inwardly
wondering perhaps, obediently paused
and looked.

But when Mrs. Brydon came in sight it
was Diana who saw her first. She perceived
her walking with Bertie at some little distance,
and exclaiming briefly : ' There she is ! ' she
went towards her straightway, and greeted
her cordially, and set herself at her side. A

considerable portion of the congregation was
streaming along the road, and it pleased the
impulsive and impetuous girl that they should
see her talking to the woman whom, to judge
from her aunt's account, they were accustomed
to regard as a black sheep. Not,
indeed, that many of them as yet knew who
she was — as she reflected with regret : ' Only
if they don't know me, at any rate they know
Cecil,' she thought consolingly, and for the
first time perhaps since her acquaintance with
her cousin had begun, she felt a sense of
satisfaction in the fact that he was with her,
— for Cecil represented Wilmotes House, as she
delightedly told herself, not without a certain
humorous malice. 'I am very much afraid
grandpa wouldn't like it if he were here,'
she wickedly thought, with a decided touch
of her grandfather's own spirit.

Mrs. Brydon had flushed when Diana
first addressed her, but she showed little

further nervousness as they walked on together.
She talked naturally enough, in a
quiet grave way. After a few minutes they
reached the point at which the road to her
own house branched off, and she stopped
there.

Good-bye,' she said without any lingering.
' I am very glad you have taken no cold.'

Good-bye,' Diana echoed half-reluctantly,
and held her hand a moment longer than
she need.

Should she say that she would go and see
her ? She hesitated, with the words almost
on her hips ; but yet in the end she turned
away leaving them unsaid.

I never spoke to her before. She seems
a very nice lady-ike sort of woman. It is an
awful pity about her, isn't it ? ' Cecil said
sympathetically, when she was out of sight.

It is more than an awful pity ; it is an
awful shame,' corrected Diana with emphasis

But people are such cowards. And you areas
bad as the rest, I dare say,' and she darted a
look of sudden scorn at her companion. ' It
seems to me that you ought to be ashamed
to say you have never spoken to her before.
Why have you never spoken to her ? You
would have done it long ago if you had had
any chivalry in you.'

The young man looked scared at this
sudden onslaught. He coloured, and glanced
at her uneasily.

I am sure I don't know what good my
speaking to her could have done,' he said,
rather bluntly. 'I have always thought I
had better keep out of it. Of course I would
have spoken to her readily enough if I had
ever had the chance, — and I'll speak to her
now, the next time I meet her, if you want
me to. But you don't take into account the
row there has been about her. What would
have been the use of my trying to do anything

? I should think you had learnt before
this that the best thing I can do is to hold
my tongue.'

Well, you haven't held your tongue today,'
said Diana, with something very like a
chuckle. ' I dare say it will be all over the
place immediately that you and Mrs. Brydon
and I walked from church together, and if it
reaches grandpa's ears we shall catch it, I
suppose. I am afraid you won't want much
to go to church with me again.'

Indeed I shall ! ' exclaimed poor Cecil
precipitately. ' Do you think I wouldn't
be ready to offend grandpa any day if I
could please you ? '

Well, I don't know that you have particularly
pleased me,' retorted Diana, 'but
you have put yourself at any rate in the
same boat with me.'

And then the foolish fellow flushed with
delight, and murmured something fervently

that perhaps Diana neither heard nor cared
to hear.

This happened on Sunday, and the next
day Diana, returning from one of her solitary
rambles, and passing by Dr. Brydon's house
(which, to tell the truth, she went slightly out
of her way to do), found Master Bertie swinging
on his uncle's gate, and naturally stopped to
greet, and reprove, him.

Why, Bertie, you are always in mischief,'
she said cheerfully. 'You will have that
gate off its hinges in a little while, if you don't
take care.'

No I shan't,' responded Bertie manfully.
But the experience he had already had of
Diana had perhaps given him a wholesome
dread of her, for he somewhat abruptly
retired from his position, and backed towards
the house-door.

'How is your mother this morning?' asked
Diana.

/ don't know,' said Bertie bluntly. ' She's
there,' and he extended a chubby finger
towards the garden.

Oh, is she there ? ' asked Diana. And
then she looked in the direction that Bertie
had indicated, and saw Lors. Brydon, and at
the same moment became aware that Mrs.
Brydon had seen her.

Of course after this it would have been
uncourteous to pass on without some recognition
; so, after the hesitation only of a
moment, the girl pushed the gate open and
went in.

It was a fine spring morning, and Mrs.
Brydon had been at work amongst her flowerbeds.
She advanced to meet Diana when she
saw her enter, and they began after a minute
to walk round the garden side by side.
What a pretty garden you have got ! ' Diana
said, and then the other could hardly do less
than show it to her. But when they had gone

all round it, and had talked about the flowers
and the fruit trees for a quarter of an hour,
Mrs. Brydon added no invitation to her to
enter the house. She merely stood still with
her, inhospitably, outside it, on the gravel
walk. And then, after two or three minutes,
as they were talking there. Dr. Brydon's trap
drove up to the gate.

Somehow at this Diana felt a little taken
aback; and when Dr. Brydon, having descended
and thrown the reins to his groom,
came forward to meet her, the colour was in
her face.

I have been walking with Mrs. Brydon
round your garden,' she said quickly, almost
as if she felt that some explanation of her
presence was required.

Ah, it's a nice garden,' returned Dr.
Brydon carelessly. ' We both find a good
deal of occupation in it.'

Yes, I can see that. And it repays you

for your work. It is charming,' exclaimed
Diana.

I am glad you like it,' he briefly replied.

And then there was a moment's pause,
during which Diana had a nervous consciousness
that she had better take her leave. So
she put out her hand, and bade Mrs. Brydon
good-bye.

But suddenly, as she bade her good-bye,
her impulsive nature got the better of her,
and ' Some day, when I am passing, may I
look in again ? ' she all at once asked, with
her kind, frank, young eyes gazing full into
the other woman's face.

If you will, you need hardly ask me if
you may,' Mrs. Brydon answered, colouring
deeply, but speaking very quietly.

'Then I certainly will,' responded Diana
with warmth ; and, with the blood pricking
little excitedly and triumphantly in her
veins, she turned round, and passed through

the gate that Dr. Brydon had opened for
her.

He held it open, and she bade him goodbye,
and offered him her hand, but instead of
taking it he suddenly said, ' I am coming a
few steps your way,' and let the gate swing to
behind him, and placed himself at her side.

And then they walked on together for a
few seconds in silence, after which he addressed
her abruptly, and almost even with some
touch of roughness.

I want to say half a dozen words to you,'
he began. ' I feel of course that it is very
well meant on your part to have shown the
attention that you have done to my sister,
and in different circumstances — if you were
living here in your own house — I should be
very grateful to you for it ; but I hope you
will not be offended with me for saying to
you that, so long as you are merely a guest
at Sir Henry Rivers's, you are hardly justified

in attempting to cultivate her acquaintance,
and that, moreover, ]\Iiss Fielding, your
doing so puts us in a wrong position. You
have, perhaps, not considered that.'

'I beg your pardon I ' ejaculated Diana
quickly.

As Dr. Brydon made his speech the
colour had come hotly into her face. She
had a quick temper, and he had touched it.
Perhaps for a few moments even her own
lurking consciousness that she was in the
wrong made her the more inclined to take
offence at him.

I beg your pardon ! ' she said vei y
quickly. ' I did certainly feel that I should
like to know !Mrs. Brydon ; but I am glad you
have spoken to me, — and of course I shall do
nothing further now. I am only sorry
that you should feel I had put you in a wrong
position, even for a moment.'

'Ah, yes; but now you are going to

VOL. II. C

revenge yourself upon me ! ' ejaculated Dr.
Brydon.

He spoke with a sort of half-comic dismay.
Perhaps he had been too serious in his
first address to her ; at any rate, she had taken it
too seriously. At this second speech she gave
him a lofty glance.

I don't know what you mean,' she said.

'Well, no,' he answered rather lugubriously,
I suppose you don't. I have made, I
imagine, rather a mess of it. I am not like a
woman, you see : I haven't a light touch. I
should have done better if I had left Phoebe
to speak for herself.'

Yes,' returned Diana coldly ; ' I wish
you had.'

Yet, still. Miss Fielding,' he resumed with
some warmth, ' I think you have no right to
be vexed. I have said an ungracious thing,
no doubt, ungraciously ; but I should think, if
you give me credit for a good motive, that

you may forgive that. Do you not suppose
that I would willingly accept your offered
friendship for my sister if I could ? but can
you not also imagine that I am a little too
proud to accept it when it is not in your
power to give it openly ? '

I meant to give it openly,' said Diana
quickly. ' You have no right to say that I
did not. Did I not walk with her after
church yesterday in the sight of half the
village ? '

Well, yes, I believe you did,' Dr. Brydon
allowed. ' But I have yet to learn,' he added
bluntly, ' that you made any mention of
having done so when you returned home.'

And then Diana blushed hotly again, and
made no response.

'You see,' resumed Dr. Brydon after a
few moments' silence, ' the question is not
what you do in regard to us in the face of the
parish, but what you do and what you say inc

2

your grandfather's louise. Sir Henry Rivers
is no friend of mine. He took it upon him
once to speak his mind to me about my sister,
so that I am in no sort of ignorance as to the
manner in which she is regarded by him ;
and, though I go and doctor him still when
he needs doctoring, we are no looser on
terms with one another. He and Mrs. Elvers
have both given my sister the cold shoulder
too decidedly for any mistake as to the way
in which they look on her to be possible, and,
that being so, Miss Fielding, I return to what
I began by saying — though I am heartily unwilling
to do so — and, with all gratitude to
you for your intended kindness, I would remind
you that, according to my way of looking
at the matter, you are hardly in a position
to cultivate my sister's acquaintance.'

There was again a little silence, and then
Diana said in a low voice — ' If you think so, I
am sorry.'

She was sorry, and in reality she was
humiliated too, but perhaps she hardly felt
called on to tell her companion that. Her
cheeks were burning ; she felt she had been
rebuffed, and rebuffs were not things that
agreed with her constitution in the least.

Ah, yes, you are sorry perhaps, but you
are angry as well,' Dr. Brydon shrewdly returned
; ' and that is a pity, it seems to me.'

I beg your pardon ; I am not angry at
all,' replied Diana. ' K you will believe me
I shall be obliged to you. I am very morris,
and — and — I am humbled to feel that you
should have thought it necessary to say this
to me '

Miss Fielding,' interrupted Dr. Brydon
gently, ' I had no intention of humbling you.
I spoke to you plainly, simply because I
thought you were a woman who would not
misunderstand me. There had seemed to me
so much frankness and straightforwardness in

you that I had imagined I might venture todo
so.'

And now,' said Diana quickly, ' now, I

suppose ' And then her hp began to

tremble, and she broke off suddenly, and left
her sentence unfinished.

Well,' replied Dr. Brydon after a moment's
consideration, ' now I still think that when
you go home you will do me the justice to
comprehend and to forgive me.'

And with that he stopped, and put put
his hand.

I have vexed you, I see,' he abruptly
said, ' and I didn't mean to vex you. I
fear I have a way of often speaking brusquely.
But when you think it over, however roughly
I may have expressed myself, and even though
I may have hurt your feelings, I believe you
will come to see that I am in the right.'

'I don't know about that,' she retorted
bluntly.

She had not yet extended her own hand.
She stood pressing her Hps together for a
moment or two ; then all at once —

I told Mrs. Brydon that I would come
again to see her, and she will expect me,' she
said. ' Shall you have any objection to my
coming again, once, to bid her good-bye ? '

I can have no possible objection to your
coming fifty times,' he answered quickly, ' so
long as you do it with Sir Henry's knowledge.'

And then she knitted her broads, and,
without opening her lips again, barely touched
the tips of his fingers with her own, and
turned away.

IS Diana walked the remainder of her
way home she was conscious that the
blood was tinoiin^r in her veins. To
tell the truth, she was a girl who did not love to
be found fault with ; it went against the grain
with her to be blamed, even when those who
blamed her had a natural right to do so ; but
to be taken to task by a stranger, who had no
natural right whatever to criticise or condemn
her doings, was a disaster that rarely in her
life had happened to her before, and the novel
experience disturbed her more than a little.
To have done a thing that laid her open to
the correction of a man who was no more to

lier than Dr. Brydon gave her a sensation of
a very peculiar kind.

By the time she arrived at Wilmotes she
was suffering from an exceedingly curious and
uncomfortable mixture of feelings, though with
regard to one particular of her future proceedings
her mind had become perfectly clear.
I will speak to grandpa at once,' she had
declared to herself. ' He shall never have the
power to tell me again that I don't do things
openly.' And accordingly, before a couple
more hours had passed, she joined Sir Henry
as he was taking his afternoon walk upon the
terrace, and proceeded to carry out this
resolution.

They paced together for a few minutes
up and down the gravel path ; then all at
once —

Grandpa,' she abruptly asked, ' what
sort of a man is Dr. Brydon ? '

A fool,' responded Sir Henry briefly.

A fool ? ' echoed Diana. This description
took her rather by surprise. ' Do you
mean,' she inquired, ' in his profession ? '

I mean, at any rate,' answered Sir
Henry, ' out of his profession. The man has
acted like a fool here.'

You say that because of his sister, don't
you, grandpa ? ' Diana spoke cautiously,
and even with a little hesitation. 'You
think he ought not to have had her to live
with him ? '

I don't think anything at all in the
matter,' replied the old man roughly. ' I say
positively he ought not to have her. In
bringing her here he has offered an insult to
the neighbourhood.'

I can't see it in that light, sir.'

You can't see it ! ' ejaculated Sir Henry.
And what is your judgment worth, do
you suppose ? Why, the man was in a
first-rate position — as good a one as any country

doctor could have anywhere ; he visited at
all the best houses in the neighbourhood ;
and now he has ruined himself. I say he
has been a fool, and so I have told him to
his face.'

Yes, grandpa ; but why should you
tell him so ? ' asked the girl quietly. ' Was it
any business of yours ? '

In the very extremity of his amazement at
this question Sir Henry stood still and stared
at his granddaughter. He got red in the face.

Was it any business of mine? ' he ejaculated.
' Yes, unquestionably it was ! If it
had not been, do you think I should have
meddled in it? I should simply have shut
my door in his face. But are you a fool too,
that you think an ailing man of my age can
shut his door against the only doctor to begot
for six miles round ? The fellow knew
the grip he had of us — that was one
of the worst features in the business. He

knew that we had to let him into our houses,
and he imagined when the door was open
that he should be able to smuggle in his
disreputable sister after him. But he has
found himself prettily in the wrong. We
have checkmated him, I think.' And the old
man gave a grim chuckle to himself.

They walked on again, and Diana held
her tongue for a few moments : then —

I don't think you ought to call her
disreputable," grandpa,' she gravely said.
I don't like to hear you do it. It is — ungentlemanly,
and — ungenerous.'

Hey dey ! ' exclaimed Sir Henry.

But the girl quietly went on, unchecked.

Yes, of course you don't like me to say
this, and you think I am a fool for saying it,
because you are hard, and you pride yourself
on your hardness, and you belong to a school
that has no pity on women who get wronged,
as this poor Mrs. Brydon has been. But I

don't feel that I ara a fool, grandpa.
What harm would it have done you to be a
little kind to her ? I dare say you have
never taken the trouble really to learn her
story, or to find out how much or how little
she may have been to blame ? You only
made up your mind to do your part in pushing
her to the wall. That is why I say you
are ungenerous. It would be a wretched
world if we none of us had more charity than
you.'

My dear,' said Sir Henry smiling, but
showing his teeth as he smiled a little
strangely, — 'my dear, with a little more
practice, you would be qualified to take out
your diploma as a Methodist preacher.'

Do you think I should ? ' asked the girl
quietly. ' Well, I shouldn't care to be a
Methodist preacher, so I won't add anything
more to my — sermon. But — there is something
else I want to say.'

Ah, so I imagine,' said Sir Henry drily.
All this is only the prelude, I suppose ? '

Well, yes, grandpa, it is only the
prelude. I want to tell you that I saw
Mrs. Brydon to-day, and walked round her
garden with her.'

Then I have only to remark, my dear,
that if you mean to do me the honour of
remaining any longer under my roof, you
will be so good as not to walk round Mrs.
Bry don's garden with her any more.'

I am sorry you say that, grandpa.'

I have no doubt you are ! '

Yes, I am sorry, because I like her, and
because I think you treat her very hardly.
But still ' — with a little sigh — ' I allow that
(in such a matter as this) while I stay here I
must do as you wish.'

'I am glad to hear that you have so
much common sense left.'

Yes, grandpa ; but at the same time

I must have my own way too — a little. I
promised to go back and see her again, so I
want to say that I shall be obliged to go —
once.'

And I say that I bid you do nothing of
the sort.'

I beg your pardon, grandpa ; but I
mean to do it. Then, after I have seen her
once more, and bidden her good-bye, I will
obey you.'

If you don't obey me unto then, young
woman, you may pack up your box and go
home.'

Oh no, sir, I hope not I ' Diana said
this with considerable warmth. ' I should
have no objection at all to go home of my
own accord ; but I should dislike so very
much to be sent home. It would be so —
dreadfully unpleasant, you know.'

Then why don't you behave sensibly,
you goose ? '

I have every desire to behave sensibly,
grandpa, and obediently too — in moderation.
I only thought, you see ' — with an aspect
great candour — ' as I intended to go and see
Mrs. Brydon again, that I would mention it.
Because then you can't find fault with me.
I might have gone on seeing her every day
if I had liked, you know, and if I had said
nothing to you, you would probably never
have heard a Avoid about it. So you see T
am not so bad as you think,' said Diana, in a
grieved and injured tone.

You are quite bad enough,' retorted Sir
Henry.

Well, I dare say I am,' agreed Diana
readily. ' Most people are. I find those I
know for the most part very wilful. They
are all, as it seems to me, so dreadfully fond
of having their own way, so that I have come
to the conclusion that the world is a very
vexing and difficult place to live in. But

then, you see, as we all have to live in it,' and
her voice took suddenly a more hopeful and
contented tone, ' we must make the best of it,
mustn't we? And grandpa, as you don't
seem able to take my view of Mrs. Brydon, I
won't bother you about her any more. Now,
I promise that ! Only, if you should chance
to change your mind you will let me know,
won't you ? You will do that ? ' and she
looked into his face in the most confiding way.

Well, for an impudent young minx,'
said Sir Henry, ' you beat most young women
I have ever come across.'

Oh, grandpa ! ' cried Diana, with conviction
in her tone, ' you only say that
because you don't know what many girls are.
They are — they are so brazen, some of them,
that you would hardly believe it. Oh, dear
me, I am not of that sort at all ! I am sure I
treat you with respect, don't I ? ' and she
gazed up at him again anxiously.

VOL. II. D

It is a remarkable sort of respect, I
think,' said Sir Henry.

Oh, but indeed you misunderstand ! ' cried
the girl with eagerness. ' I speak to you
pretty frankly, I know, but then that isti'
because I like you. And I try to get you to
think as I do about things, because of course
what I think seems to myself right ; but it is
just because I respect you so much, grand-papa,
that I want you to agree with me. If
I didn't value your opinions, you know, I
shouldn't trouble myself at all about them.
You see that, surely, don't you ? '

'I see that you are an artful young
baggage,' replied Sir Henry, and broke at
last into a half laugh. ' How you ever came
to be either your father's or your mother's
daughter is more than I can conceive.'

Am I not like mamma in any way ? '
asked the girl suddenly, in rather a changed
tone. 'Do you know, we have a picture of

lier at home, — a miniature? It is not very
good papa says, but I like to look at it. 1
look at it a great deal. Grandpa,' — and she
raised her eyes again to him suddenly — ' was
mamma's marriage a great grief to you ? '

It was a great moult to me,' said the old
man quickly and fiercely. ' An insult to me,
and a shame to herself. Let it alone, child.'

But, sir. I have often wanted to speak to
you about it.'

Is the devil in you,' cried Sir Henry,
that you can't leave things alone? '

Xo, grandpa, I hope not,' said Diana
meekly. ' Xot the devil, but only a spirit of
inquiry. I have thought so often that I
should like to ask you about mamma. I
have wanted so much to know icy you
couldn't forgive her ? '

Child ! ' broke out the old man passionately,
' hold your tongue ! '

For a few minutes Diana obeyed this

order. They walked all the length of the
terrace in silence, but by the time that they
had turned at the end of it, and begun to
retrace their steps, she had recovered her
courage.

'I used to hate you so for it,' she said
then abruptly. ' For years I used to want to
see you, just that I might tell you how unjust
I thought you had been, and how I hated
you. Grandpa, I don't hate you now, but
I am so sorry — I am so dreadfully sorry —
that you treated her as you did. She didn't
deserve such a punishment. You had cause
to be angry with them both, I know, at first,
but you should have forgiven her before it
came to the end.'

That is between me and my conscience.
Be silent, I tell you ! ' said the old man
furiously.

Well, I will be silent, but I am sorry —
and I shall always be sorry — for you as well

as for her, — and for my father,' replied Diana ;
and then wisely held her peace.

She had said less than she had meant to
say, but yet even the boldest amongst us, as
she consoled herself by reflecting afterwards,
have at times to debar themselves from the
free use of their tongues. ' I don't think he
would have borne anything more. He was
chafing even as it was, like an old lion,' she
prudently thought. And indeed, to a certain
extent, she had spoken her mind, and it
seemed to her, when she went indoors, that
she felt decidedly the better for it.

CHAPTER ni

F I go to Mrs. Brydon early in the
afternoon, I should think Dr.
Brydon would be pretty sure to
be out,' Diana argued with herself; and so,
as she had no desire to meet Dr. Brydon
again, she did this, and after a couple of days
had passed, betook herself again, though not
without considerable reluctance, and an unpleasant
feeling of humiliation, to the doctor's
house, to pay her promised visit, and make
her confession, and bid her new friend farewell.
For, being of a straightforward nature,
she had quickly come to the conclusion
that she must tell Mrs. Brydon frankly

how it was that she was obliged to break osier
acquaintance with her, and yet she
naturally shrank from doing this, and was
ashamed that her own impulsive action had
forced such a course upon her.

Mrs. Brydon received her gravely, the girl
thought, as she entered the room in which
she was sitting working ; and indeed it appeared
to Diana, who was not at ease herself,
that her manner was not only grave, but
timid and nervous. She rose up and came
forward, without, for the first moment, even
putting out her hand.

I am afraid you did not expect me ? '
Diana said upon this impulsively. She had
hardly made up her mind before entering
the house as to the way in which she should
approach the subject about which she had to
speak, but now, when she saw the other's
constraint and want of self*possession, the
nervousness by which she was confronted ina

moment seemed to chase her own nervousness
away; and — 'I am afraid you did not
expect me ? ' she hastily said. ' Did you
think I should not come ? '

I did not know,' Mrs. Brydon answered,
with the colour in her face.

But I told Dr. Brydon,' said Diana, ' and
he ought to have believed me. He was very
plain-spoken on his part. He told me that
I had no right to come any more.'

He told you that for your own sake,'
interrupted Mrs. Brydon earnestly.

Oh no, he did not ; he made no pretence
of it being for my sake,' she answered quickly.
It was for his sake that I was not to come, —
because he was too proud, he said, to permit
my visits. I am not blaming him, Mrs.
Brydon.'

'Yov must noi blame him indeed, because
he was in the right.'

Well, he may have been in the right ; I

don't know : but he ought to have believed
me. I told him that I meant to come once
again. Don't you think it would have been
bad of me if I had not ? — if I had simply kept
away without a word ? — after you had been so
kind to me. I think,' said the girl hotly, 'if
I had not come back I should have behaved
like a coward.'

I should not have thought you a coward
I should have understood,' Mrs. Brydon
returned. ' But you are very good, and I —
I am glad you have come,' she added suddenly,
with a tremor in her voice.

And then after this they sat down, and
the ice once broken, almost without Diana
needing to put any questions to her, the poor
woman told her her story.

I can't bear you to think worse . of me
than I deserve,' she began, with the tears standing
in her eyes. ' Xo doubt I was to blame,
for people who get deceived are generally to

blame more or less ; I was blind and wilful, —
but I was so young, and I knew so little
about bad things. How could I suspect him ?
Would you suspect anybody who had made
you love him, and who had asked you to be
his wife ? I took him at his own showing —
how could I do anything else ? Neither my
brother nor my mother liked him, I grant
that. They were vexed at my wanting to
marry him, but — but I was in love with him,
and I suppose, for the moment at least, in his
cruel way, he was in love with me.

Oh, my dear, I lived with him for four
unhappy years, and then — the woman he had
married before me came to me and claimed him.
He had married her in Canada, and deserted
her, and she had spent years in looking for
him. I thought she was mad at first when she
told me she was his wife. She only frightened
me : I never dreamt of believing her : but
while she was still talking to me he himself

came into the room, and then — the moment
I saw them face to face ! '

Mrs. Brydon broke down suddenly with a
sob and covered her face with her hands.
Poor soul ! ' thought Diana, and for pity
cried too.

They were both silent for a little while :
Diana had got her companion's hand in hers
and was clasping it in mute sympathy.

'If only all the punishment had fallen
upon me,' the sad woman said after a little
while, ' then I could have borne it without
a murmur ; but can you imagine what it is to
love my child as I do, and yet almost to wish
that he had never been born ? And my poor
brother too — my poor Eoger — my dear Eoger,
who has been like brother and father both
to me! My mother was dead. I thanked
God for that. It is only Eoger and I who
have had to suffer so far ; but the worst
hangs over me — the worst is still all to

come — when Bertie shall have grown old
enough to understand '

'You can't tell that,' interrupted Diana
earnestly. ' He may grow up only to be a
comfort to you. And as to other people —
oh, some will be hard, no doubt, like my
grandfather, and will make you suffer, and
will make Bertie suffer, but I am sure you
have kind friends already, have you not? —
friends here in this place who understand,
and who will never be anything but good to
you ? '

Yes, I have some friends,' said Mrs.
Brydon, — ' one or two who have been most
kind to me.'

And you have your brother.'

Oh yes. But ' — in a love, sad tone, — ' I
am dragging my brother down.'

Mrs. Brydon,' cried Diana, ' you ought
not to say that ! That is a dreadful thing to
say.'

It may be dreadful,' she persisted, ' but
it is true. My being here has altered Eoger's
whole position. Before I came, with my
miserable sorrow, there was not a house in
the neighbourhood that was not open to him :
he was known and liked everywhere : and
now people are shy of him : they don't invite
him as they used to do : they are awkward
with him and don't know on what terms to
meet him. They may be sorry for me —
I don't say that they are not — but they don't
want to know me, and for that I neither
blame them nor wonder at them. Only it
makes it hard for Eoger. As I tell you, a few
have come to me and been very kind, but for
the most part, of course, they hold aloof; and
one or two have done more than hold aloof.
Sir Henry Elvers has, you know. He has
told Eoger to his face — ah ! I need not try
to repeat it ! He said far more, I know, than
Eoger has ever told me.'

But, Mrs. Brydon, you ought not to
mind what grandpa says. He is so dreadfully
prejudiced, so dreadfully violent. I
don't believe Dr. Brydon cares one bit.'

Oh yes, he does — in a way, he does. He
has a temper too, — and he is obstinate ; when
he is opposed he gets sometimes very obstinate
indeed. If he were a different kind of
man, you see, — now when he has found out
how difficult it makes things for me to be
here, — he would give in, and let me go ; but
he won't give in — he won't hear of it.'

Of course he won't,' said Diana.

I feel so strongly for my own part that I
ought never to have come.'

Well, but, now that you have come,
what can you do but remain? It seems tome
that to do anything else would put Dr.
Brydon in a very unpleasant position. Your
coming in the first instance may possibly
have been unwise — I can't say — but now that

you are actually here, ^hj, it would simply
mean defeat for him if you were to go.'

Yes, that is what he says.'

Of course it is. And I don't imagine he
would much like the feeling of having been
beaten.'

'Indeed he would not. As I often tell
him, he is a born fighter. Only you mustn't
misunderstand me when I say that, Miss
Fielding. You mustn't think that he is tyrannical,
or hard to live with. Oh no, he is
not that I There is no kinder man living.
But, I mean, he doesn't shrink from a fight.
In a way, he almost likes it. It is his nature.'

Yes,' said Diana drily ; ' I should quite
suppose it was.'

And sc, you see, he won't give in.'

'Well,' said the girl after a moment's
pause, ' I think he is right. I wouldn't give
in either — in his place. People have no ri^/ht
to dictate to him.'

So he thinks.'

And he is doing what no generous
person would blame him for.'

Oh, I know that ! '

'But my grandfather, you see, Mrs.
Brydon, is not generous. I like him in many
ways— I am almost fond of him — but he is
terribly fierce and stiff and narrow in his own
views. And, because I am staying in his
house. Dr. Brydon tells me ' (a little bitterly),
and he tells me himself, that I must conform
to his prejudices ; and so, between them both,
I am fairly tied and helpless.'

My dear,' said Mrs. Brydon warmly, ' I
understand — I understand it thoroughly.'

Yes — but that doesn't make it the less
hateful to me,' pursued Diana. ' At home I am
accustomed to do what I like. If you lived
near us we would all try so to be kind to you.'

'I am sure you would. Thank you for
saying that. But— you mustn't mind.'

I can't help myself,' said Diana, ' but — I
do mind.'

She stayed with Mrs. Brydon for an hour,
and then, with a good deal of reluctance, lie
took her leave of her, and made her formal
farewell. It went sorely against the grain
with her to do this, and to find herself compelled
to act in regard to Mrs. Brydon as
other people ordered her, and not as she
wished to act herself, but yet how could she
do otherwise?

'I shall still see you sometimes at church.
This is not good-bye for altogether,' she said
with emphasis before she left the house.

Oh no — not for altogether, I hope,' Mrs.
Brydon answered.

And then they kissed one another, and
Diana unwillingly went her way.

Grandpa is an old tyrant, and Dr.
Brydon — I don't feel much in charity with
Dr. Brydon either,' the girl thought to herself

VOL. II. E

as she walked home. ' I don't think he
treated me nicely the other day. I believe
in reality — though of course that gentle little
woman won't allow it — that, in spite of his
good qualities, he is a good bit of a tyrant
too. Oh dear, men are very vexing I — and
how difficult people often are to work with I
Now, honestly, I don't think' — and Diana
meditatively knitted her brows — ' that / am
difficult to work with at all ! '

ES — men generally were vexing, Diana
thought ; and, considering that she
had only yet been at Wilmotes for
little more than a week, she had already got
her hands pretty full with them. It was not
only that her grandfather and Dr. Brydon
occupied and troubled her, but there was
Cecil too ! What was she to do with Cecil ?
Already more than once she had earnestly
asked herself this question, and as yet the
inquiry was one that had by no means got
itself satisfactorily answered. For the lad was

E 2

SO amiable, and so anxious to please lier, and
she was so sorry for him, and yet his amiability
and his devotion wearied her so. They
wearied her, and, what was worse, they tried
her temper : at times, when she was with him,
they made her impatient and almost fierce,
because, before this, not only had a suspicion
entered the girl's mind, but a feeling had even
been forced upon her which was not far from
conviction, that, in spite of the contempt with
which he regarded his grandson, Sir Henry,
for his own ends, encouraged the boy's admiration
of her. Already he had thrown out
hints which she had resented, and made jests
at which she had flamed up hot as fire.
Does he want me to marry him ? Can he
possibly think that I would ever do it ? ' she
had demanded of herself, blazing with maiden
scorn and wrath.

And yet she was often kind to Cecil, and
gentle and patient with him. He was her

cousin, and that fact, to her mind, gave him
a certain claim ujDon her : he was so weak,
and, though she had a great contempt for
weakness, yet she had a great pity for it too :
he was so amiable : he had been so hardly
treated : he had a touch of genius in him.
At least, T suppose it is genius,' she used to
think dubiously, conscious that her own very
undeveloped musical gifts gave her no great
power of judging. The poor young fellow,
for his part, was always eager to exhibit his
talent before her, but she on her side was by
no means always willing to present herself for
these exhibitions. His playing, she felt, was
wonderful and beautiful, but when he had once
"ot his fiddle in his hand it was evident that
he hardly knew how to lay it down again, and
it was equally evident that she could have
seen him lay it down after an hour's performance
with extreme content. He was always
asking her with a sort of timid eagerness to

come up to his turret room and let him play
to her, and she would sometimes accede to his
request and go, but at other times she would
decline to go, saying that she had other work
on hand, and then his hopeful face would fall,
and he would go his way without another
word, leaving a sort of remorseful pang in
Diana's heart. For in truth she did not like
to pain him, — she would have liked to make
him happy if she could ; only his companionship
bored her so horribly.

Oh, I wish Cecil had something else to do
than to play that fiddle ! ' she broke out one
day suddenly to Mrs. Eivers. 'Aunt, don't
you wish it too? Doesn't it seem rather
dreadful to you ? Of course I know that it is
all right for some people to be musicians and
nothing else, but I don't know how it is — it
doesn't seem to me that Cecil is strong enough
for that. He wants something to brace him
more, I think ; if he could ride, or hunt, or

even go out into the fields and drive a
plough '

'Oh, Diana!' exclaimed Mrs. Pavers hurriedly,
' he couldn't do that, you know ! '

Well, no, I suppose he couldn't do that,'
Diana assented. ' Well, then, I wish he was
at school.' And she went her way with an
impatient sigh.

He was one-and-twenty, but he was only
fit to be at school, she thought. ' And
grandpa knows that too,' she told herself.
Grandpa knows he is a mere boy, and
he despises him, and hates him. And yet,
though he treats him almost as if he were a

dog, he can dare to think ! ' And then

the girl broke ofi* her speech, with the indignant
colour in her face. Amongst them all
she had a good deal to try her, she thought.

But still she was happy enough as these
days passed on ; she had too much buoyancy
of nature, and too delightful a consciousness

of youth and health and power to be, on the
whole, anything but happy. Throughout her
life, up to this time, a certain feeling of
triumph had always accompanied Diana.
There was so much natural force in her that,
in her little world, she had never known
defeat — she had never almost been confronted
even with opposition. Here at Wilmotes, it
is true, she had begun to meet with some
opposition ; but as yet, though this had
astonished, it had in no way depressed her.
On the whole, she experienced not a little
entertainment in her half serious encounters
with her grandfather ; and as for her encounter
with Dr. Brydon, — why, that was
merely a thing to be put out of her memory
as an unpleasant incident, not worth recalling,
nor in any way vexing herself over. He was a
cantankerous, uncourteous sort of man, she
only thought, whom in future it would be
wise to avoid. ' Only I hope I shan't be ill

while I am here ! ' she one day exclaimed
to herself, with considerable-warmth, ' for I
should hate to have to be doctored by him.
It would seem to me somehow so humiliating.'
And she looked at herself in the glass with a
certain anxiety (happily quite uncalled for)
lest her aspect should not denote a condition
of perfect health.

There were days when, by good management,
she escaped very much from poor
Cecil's dog-like attendance, but there were
other days when she was less fortunate, and
when she had, with more or less of patience,
to submit to a good deal of his company.
The lad, as she was painfully conscious, was
always seeking her, and lying in wait for her.
She was too exciting and attractive an element
to have come into his sad and cramped
life, for her beauty and brightness to have
failed to take his boyish heart by storm. In all
his previous crude imaginings he had probably

never even conceived of anything resembling
her ; before she dawned upon him, some
dreamy, mild poetic vision had perhaps been
his only ideal (if, indeed, he had so much
as had an ideal at all) of desirable womanhood.
Inevitably, therefore, when she came
she captivated and overwhelmed him, and
brought him to her feet, a happy and helpless
victim.

I think you have opened a new world
to us all,' he ventured to say to her one
day.

I think you all needed most desperately to
have a new world opened to you,' she replied,
for the one in which I found you was an
awfully dull one. But I have done little
enough. I should like to do a great deal
more.'

Oh, then, I only wish you would ! ' cried
the enraptured boy.

The thinj]^ I should like to do most of all,'

said Diana ruthlessly, ' would be to send you
off to sell — to college.'

And then the lad looked at her, and the
light went out of his eyes.

But Diana, who was a born reformer,
really meant that she should like to do this
.thing. She meant it so seriously that she
meditated on it, and, in spite of the rebuff
that she had already suffered in proposing
it to her grandfather, she boldly made other
opportunities of proposing it to him again,
and urging it with all the force of her feminine
will.

Grandfather, I can't think how you can
bear to do wrong things deliberately,' she
coolly said to him one day. ' Of course we
all of us do wrong things hastily, but how
you can persist in doing what you ought not,
does puzzle me. Now I really think you
must be troubled sometimes about Cecil.'

I am troubled often about him, my dear,'

replied Sir Henry readily. ' I never remember
his existence without annoyance. I
have had some serious thoughts at times of
shooting him.'

You could easily get rid of him without
shooting him,' said Diana severely. ' I don't
know why you always jest about him in this
bitter way. Why don't you treat him kindly ?
Why don't you educate him ? It is a shame
that you don't.'

If you don't approve of his want of
education, take him in hand yourself,' retorted
Sir Henry. ' You know all the ologies,
don't you ? Your father is a learned man,
and I suppose has shovelled some of his
learning into you. Take him for your pupil,
and see what will come of it,' and the old
man gave a low chuckle, which, though it
was only faintly audible, kindled Diana's
wrath.

I shall do nothing of the sort,' she

answered with dignity, ' and you know that
very well. But you ought to see that he is
taught. I do wonder that your conscience
can let you treat him as you do.'

My dear,' said Sir Henry suavely, ' pray
don't concern yourself about my conscience.'

But how can I help it, grandpa, when
I like you, and you do wrong? You see, if
I didn't like you,' said the girl with sudden
winningness, ' then it wouldn't worry me half
so much. I should be sorry, but that is all,
just as I am sorry about Cecil. I am awfully
sorry for Cecil ; but yet what troubles me far
the most is, not that things are wrong for
him, but that you should be so hard and
unjust. I don't mind some of your faults so
very much, such as your temper, for instance
(though I am afraid it is dreadful sometimes),
but it does vex me to see you doing really unjust
and vicious things. I don't believe noble
people are ever vicious, grandpa ; and, in

spite of your temper, I should so like to think
that at bottom you were — a little — noble.'

Child,' said Sir Henry, ' don't be a fool.'

But he did not speak unkindly, and after
a moment or two he even laughed.

'You are a curiously meddlesome young
woman,' he exclaimed, ' and meddlesome
people sooner or later mostly get their fingers
burnt. Leave me to settle accounts with
that boy, my dear. I have my reasons for
what I do. You wouldn't approve of them
most probably if you knew them ; therefore,
I please to keep them to myself.'

And you won't send him to college ? ' she
asked wistfully.

'No, I won't send him to college,' he
said, and suddenly struck his staff upon the
ground with an emphasis that made Diana
jump.

She had begun by this time to find some
little occupation for her leisure hours. Of

these leisure hours, by dexterous avoidance
of her cousin's companionship, she managed
to have a considerable supply, and she began
to employ them in making acquaintances in
the village amongst the cottagers. This, from
her bringing up, seemed to her a natural use
to turn them to, and was one that, on the
whole, suited her. One day in an old
woman's cottage she encountered the clergyman
of the parish, ]mr. Millers, and they
had afterwards occasional dealings with one
another, and he recommended various other
persons in the village to her notice. * I ama
clergyman's daughter, and I have always
been used to parish work,' she told him.

On one occasion he said to her frankly, ' I
should like to call on you ; only, as I dare say
you know, I am not on terms with Sir Henry
Rivers.'

Yes, I know. Grandpa has many
prejudices,' Diana answered gravely.

He lias indeed,' returned Mr. Villiers with
fervour.

And then neither of them said anything
more. But as time went on Diana met Mr.
Villiers pretty often going amongst his people,
and got to like him. And also, as in the
course of her visitations was almost inevitable,
she occasionally met Dr. Brydon, though for
some time their encounters were merely of
the briefest sort. One afternoon, however,
chancing to meet him in the village, to her
surprise, instead of, as usual, merely raising
his hat to her, he set himself at her side.

Are you going home ? Then our roads
lie together for a little way,' he said simply ;
and without any other preface began to walk
on with her.

It was the first time that they had walked
together since the morning when he had
performed his ungracious task of requesting
her to cease her visits to his sister, and the

remembrance of that last occasion came painfully
and vividly, and even resentfully, to
her mind as he walked with and talked to
her now. And yet, in spite of the emotion
that his companionship roused in her at first,
she found herself presently submitting to it
with composure, and even with a certain satisfaction
; for Dr. Brydon could talk pleasantly,
she found, when he chose; he could even,
she allowed to herself, talk interestingly —
which was what few people did, this conceited
young woman mentally remarked. And,
moreover, he was natural — unusually natural,
frank, and free from self consciousness.

They walked up the hill together, and she
inwardly made these comments on him as they
went, feeling herself involuntarily grooving
in charity with him, or, at least, more nearly
in charity than she had been yet. Eor she
liked a man to have some stuff in him, and
she began to think that there must be

VOL. II. F

Stuff in Dr. Brydon. She perceived that he
talked out of a full mind — a mind which, with
a sense of humility that was no doubt highly
salutary, she was conscious must be far
better furnished than her own ; and as she
listened to him a feeling stole upon her which
she half liked (because her nature was a
generous one), and half resented (because
she was very vain), the feeling that, as compared
with a man of his sort, she herself was
a very superficial creature.

Half liking her entertainment, therefore,
she walked by his side till their roads parted.
As they stopped at this point to bid one another
good-bye she asked him, with perhaps
a noticeable touch of self-consciousness, to
remember her to his sister. It was the only
mention of Mrs. Brydon that either of them
had made.

Yes, surely,' he said when she spoke, and
suddenly paused, and then added abruptly:

I hope you believe that if my sister could
see more of you it would be a great pleasure
to me.'

Diana lifted up her head at this, with a
quick, involuntary, haughty Httle laugh.

You are very civil to say so,' she briefly
answered.

You give me more credit than I deserve,'
he returned. ' I was not thinking of being
civil.'

And then he lifted his hat, and turned
away ; and Diana, with the colour a Httle in
her face, also went her way home.

In the drive at Wilmotes she came upon
Cecil, hanging about and lying in wait for her,
and the sight of him had a bad effect upon
her temper. She knitted her brows at him
and snubbed him.

Why in the world have you not been fora
good walk ? ' she said to him.

p2

I thought you would be coming back,'
he meekly answered.

'And what had my comme back to do
with it ? ' she retorted. ' If I were you I
would walk ten miles a day — or ride twenty.
But you sit up in that tower of yours till it
takes all life and vigour out of you.'

Why don't you let me walk with you,
then ? ' asked the lad, stung into sudden
courage. 'I would walk far enough if you
would do that. But you would rather sit
with the stupidest old woman in the village
than go anywhere with me.'

And then Diana sighed with a certain impatience,
but yet with a sort of pity too.

Well, come across the park, and we will
have a walkfnow,' she said abruptly, with
a little effort. And she forthwith led the
way ; and they walked and talked for an hour
under the trees — and poor Cecil was made
happy.

But at the hour's end Diana was so tired
that she said she must go in, and, though she
kindly tried to hide her weariness from him,
she yawned repeatedly as she went towards
the house.

^N the whole, though Mrs. Elvers was
so timid and colourless a woman,
Diana did not get on badly with
her. She had a good deal of pity for downtrodden
women ; she had, perhaps, a good
deal of pity for weakness generally, though —
as in Cecirs case — where it was joined to a
power of annoying her, the old Adam in her
nature tempted her to come down upon it
pretty sharply. But Mrs. Elvers did not
annoy her at all, as Cecil did, and so the girl's
good-heartiness made her in general very
kind to her. They used to take drives together

sometimes, and make calls at neighbouring
houses. It was a thinly-peopled
district, but the poor lady had a few acquaintances
with whom she exchanged periodical
visits, and in seeing whom she took a feeble
pleasure.

I am afraid there will be very little in
the way of parties for you, my dear ; you
see, we are not people who either give or
go to parties,' she had, very soon after
her arrival, informed Diana deprecatingly ;
but there are one or two nice families whom
I call on sometimes ; I go in to afternoon tea,
you know, and it makes a little break.'

And so to these one or two families she
introduced Diana, and in this way the girl
also made a few acquaintances, and even, as
time went on, received some invitations, as so
handsome and bright a girl, appearing suddenly
in the midst of a small and dull community,
could hardly fail to do.

The receipt of these invitations delighted
Mrs. Eivers.

Oh, Diana, we are asked to a garden
party at Mrs. Westbrook's ! ' she announced
one morning, with quite a little pink colour
in her cheeks. ' I am so glad ! I don't know
if / shall go, — though perhaps I ought ? What
do you think ? Of course girls generally
have somebody to chaperon them.'

Oh yes,' said Diana, half laughing, ' I
shall want you to chaperon me. You don't
know what Evolves might be there. It would
never do for you to send me amongst them
unguarded. We'll go together, Aunt Eivers.
and have a good time of it.'

And Cecil must go with us too,' said his
mother. ' You must persuade him, Diana.'

Ah ! ' ejaculated Diana, a little dubiously.
But she considered for a moment, and then
her brow, which had slightly contracted,
cleared again. ' I think we should all four
go,' she said abruptly.

What, your grandfather as well ! ' exclaimed
Mrs. Rivers, almost aghast. ' Oh, he
would never think of it ! '

But I don't know why he shouldn't,' said
Diana. ' I shall ask him, at any rate.'

And she did so.

Grandpa,' she inquired of him cheerfully
when they next met, ' are you going to
Mrs. Westbrook's party ? '

Am I going to — Jericho ! ' replied Sir
Henry. ' What do you mean by Mrs. Westbrook's
party ? '

Oh, has Aunt Eivers not told you ? ' said
Diana. ' We are all invited to a garden
party there on the 21st — all four of us ; and
I want you to go because it will make it so
much nicer, you know.'

I am sorry not to make things " nice,"
said Sir Henry ironically ; ' but I shall go to
few more parties on this side of the grave.
and one of those few, you may be very sure,
won't be Mrs. Westbrook's.'

Not even to please me, grandpa ? '
asked the girl.

Not even to please you, my dear,' replied
the old man, and laughed, but perhaps not
quite unkindly.

Later on in the day he surprised her nota
little by suddenly flicking a ten-pound note
almost into her face, with the curt remark :
There, go and get some finery for yourself.
You'll want it, I suppose, if you're to go
gadding to these places.'

Oh, grandpa ! ' cried Diana, flushing
at this brusque presentation with a little
natural pleasure, but yet taken aback by it
too. ' Oh, I don't know that I need to get
anything. I think I have what will do.'

Spend the money, child, and hold your
tongue,' retorted the old man.

And then Diana hesitated a moment, but
after that moment bent down her fair head
suddenly, and shyly and abruptly kissed him.

I always kiss papa when he gives me a
new gown,' she explained with her next
breath, apologetically.

If you only kiss him on those occasions
you don't do it very often then,' replied Sir
Henry bluntly.

(He had jerked his head aside at her salutation,
so that her kiss, instead of alighting
on his cheek, had dropped unintentionally on
his ear.)

But the girl broke into a happy laugh.

Ah, but then I dont only do it on those
occasions. I do it on all kinds of occasions.
He — he likes being kissed, — better than you
do, grandpa.'

Humph ! ' said Sir Henry, with a grunt,
he may very easily do that.'

And then he gave his head a shake again,
like a cat whose whiskers had been brushed
awry.

Diana went away with her ten-pound

note, and thought with a sigh how she should
like to send it home. If only she might !
But the thing, she knew, could not be done ;
so she took the money to Mrs. Eivers, and
they consulted together over the spending of
it ; and the result of their consultations was
that, when the day of Mrs. Westbrook's party
came, Diana went and showed herself to Sir
Henry, clothed in the prettiest and daintiest
garments that she had ever had the satisfaction
to possess.

Grandpa, I have come for you to look
at me,' she said as she presented herself
before him, blushing a little, for she could
not but be conscious that the pretty dress
became her. ' I have bought all these things
with what you gave me ; and I want you to
see if you think them nice.'

Sir Henry looked at her, beginning at her
head and going down to her feet, and then
gave one of his grim laughs.

Yes, you are very well satisfied with
yourself, I see,' was his gruff comment. ' I
dare say you look well enough. At any rate,
you are improved. 111 say that.'

Oh yes, I think so too. Fine feathers
make fine birds,' replied Diana demurely.
And these are very pretty feathers, aren't
they, grandpa? I like the feeling of them.'

I'll be bound you do, you young minx ! '
replied Sir Henry, and laughed his cynical
laugh again.

It was only May, but the weather was aswarm
as summer ; so Mrs. Westbrook's guests
distributed themselves for the most part about
her gardens ; and Diana was introduced to
various people whom she had not seen before,
and was soon enjoying the novelty of the
scene in a simple, girlish way. For a time
she remained with Mrs. Elvers and Cecil, but
presently some of her new acquaintances drew
her away from them. The young people

were playing tennis, and though she herself,
to her regret, could not play tennis, yet it
amused her to watch the game ; so she stood
and looked on at it, and talked about it fora
good while to a young man who, having
been brought to her side, seemed quite content
to remain there and explain its mysteries
to her. He stood on one side of her, talking
pretty continuously; and hovering on her
other side, a little in her rear, stood Cecil,
listless and unoccupied, waiting for such
crumbs of notice as Diana might from time
to time accord him. She had left him with
his mother, but he had soon strayed away
from his mother, and followed her.

She heard him at the end of twenty
minutes greeting some one, and at the sound
of the answering greeting she turned round,
for she recognised the speaker's voice as Dr.
Brydon's. Perhaps by this time she was
fretting rather tired of her talkative companion,

and did not feel sorry to have an
excuse for leaving him. At any rate, she
turned to Dr. Brydon with some cordiality.

I thought you were always too busy to
come to parties like these ? ' she said to him
with a smile.

So I am,' he answered, ' but I have
always to come to ]Mrs. Westbrook's parties.
Mrs. Westbrook and I are old cronies, and
when she tells me to do a thing I have to doit.
I come for half an hour when she won't
let me off.'

And then he came forward to the other
man's place, and for a few minutes longer she
watched the players, and they made remarks
upon them.

But this entertainment had begun to pall
upon her, so presently she turned to Cecil
(for the poor fellow had his uses sometimes),
and proposed that they should go and find
Mrs. Elvers ; and as she moved to do this,

Dr. Brydon moved too, and followed her,
and perhaps the girl (who did not care much
for Cecil's conversation) was rather pleased.
So they walked over the smooth-shaven lawns
together, talking as they went ; and it came
about that Diana said nothing more about
finding Mrs. Rivers. In fact, she probably
foro-ot her ; for Dr. Brydon, as I have already
said, could make himself a pleasant companion,
and his talk interested her more than
the society talk to which, before he came, she
had been listening. She paced by his side
contentedly enough for some few minutes,
until they met Mrs. Westbrook, who stopped
to speak to them, and then, designedly or
unfeignedly, added to Diana's satisfaction
by seizing on Cecil, and carrying him off a
reluctant captive to do duty in some other
place.

Mr. Rivers, I have somebody that I want
to introduce you to,' she said to him.

Oh, but it doesn't matter, does it ? '
exclaimed unwilling Cecil.

At this inquiry, however, Mrs. Westbrook
only laughed, and put her hand within his
arm.

'Yes, it does matter very much,' she said.
It matters so much that you must come with
me, whether you will or not.' And she took
him off.

Eather hard lines,' said Dr. Brydon
briefly, when this strategic movement had
been accomplished, and he was left with
Diana. ' The poor lad doesn't want to go.'

Xo, he is so terribly shy,' Diana said, and
sighed half with impatience. ' He is worse
than any girl.'

Most girls are not much troubled with
shyness, it seems to me,' Dr. Brydon retorted ;
but as for this poor fellow, it's pitiable.'
And then he suddenly struck his stick upon
the ground, and — ' Your grandfather has

VOL. II. G

something to answer for there,' he added, in a
tone that brought the colour to Diana's face.

The speech was one that he had had no
right to make, she thought ; it made her
angry, and yet she could not leave it unanswered
— or it seemed to her that she could
not.

I can't understand grandpa,' she said
gravely, after a little silence. ' He may have
some reason that we don't know of '

He has no reason whatever,' interrupted
Dr. Brydon bluntly. ' Excuse me for saying
it, but his whole treatment of your cousin
has been a mere tyrannical exercise of power.
I have spoken to him myself about the boy,
and more strongly, I dare say, than I had any
business to do ; but I never did any good by
it, and now of course my lips are closed. I
should think that you might do something,
however,' he added suddenly, and with a
quick look into her face.

Ah yes, and so / thought at first,' replied
the girl impulsively; ' but I have tried too.'

'And failed?'

Oh yes, I have failed.' She paused fora
few moments, hesitating whether to safer
more or not ; but there were, more words on
her lips, and after that brief silence she
yielded to the temptation of uttering them.

Dr. Brydon,' she said abruptly, ' what
makes him hate Cecil so ? Do you know ? I
have tried to find out often, but I can't.'

'He never loved his father before him
Dr. Brydon answered. ' Cecil's father was a
man something like himself, I believe ; quiet
and refined, and perhaps weak, and devoted
in the same extreme way to music. Sir
Henry despised him, I have been told, and
looked upon him always as a milksop, and
when he died, and this boy came here, like a
mere repetition of his father, I imagine it was
too much for the fiery old man to stand '

6 2

But then why did he not let him go ? '
exclaimed Diana.

Because hatred takes all kinds of shapes,
I suppose, and your grandfather's took the
shape of liking to have the thing he hated in
his sight.'

But if that is true,' cried the girl quickly,
he must be terribly cruel.'

He is cruel, whether it is true or not,'
replied Dr. Brydon coolly.

And then there was a little silence, and
Diana walked on, conscious of feeling some
offence, and yet conscious that her companion
had said no more than the bare truth.

Perhaps he did not perceive that he had
at all offended her, or perhaps he was indifferent
as to whether he had offended her
or not. He walked by her side for a few
moments looking on the ground, and after
that pause abruptly resumed the subject of
their talk.

He and I have quarrelled, as you know,'
he began bluntly, ' and so I can say nothing
to him now ; but, if all is true that I hear,
you ought to have some influence with him ;
and, if you have, most certainly you could
not use it better than in urging him to do
something, or shaming him into doing something,
for that lad.'

But I told you just now that I had tried
already,' said Diana impatiently.

Then try again. If he has the scheme in
his head that he is credited with having, his
conduct towards Cecil is more than cruel :
it is the conduct of a fool.'

What scheme is he credited with having?'
asked Diana quickly, and she looked at her
companion with a certain startled apprehension
in her eyes.

That is no concern of mine,' replied Dr.
Brydon curtly ; and he put his hands behind
his back, and stolidly walked on.

Yes ; but I don't suppose you say things
without knowing what you mean by them,'
returned Diana, rather hotly. ' What scheme
is grandpa credited with having ? ' and,
perhaps unconsciously, she drew herself up.
You may as well tell me, for if you won't,
I shall ask himself.'

'Then ask himself,' said Dr. Brydon,
' unless you know it already, which I should
think was most probable.'

And then Diana all at once held her
tongue ; but the colour rose into her face.

Nor, perhaps, did it rise without good
cause, for was it not bad enough that she
should have perceived her grandfather's
wishes with regard to her, without the
additional humiliation falling on her of
learning that other people had divined them
too, and that her future prospects had
become a topic of speculation in the neighbourhood
? She held her tongue as she

walked on by Dr. Brydon's side, but though
she held her tongue her heart was hot, and
her feeling towards her companion was of a
sort that made the blood tingle in her veins.

Perhaps he was conscious that he had
incurred her wrath, for he raised his eyes
to her face with a certain look of inquiry in
them after a few moments, and then —

*Miss Fielding, I believe I ought to ask
your pardon,' he said gently enough. ' I
know that I am a blunt man, and that I
speak sometimes too roughly and frankly.
During our short acquaintance I have been
so unfortunate as to annoy you more than
once. If I have annoyed you now, pray
forgive me.'

It seems to me,' said Diana (she had let
a little pause follow Dr. Brydon's speech) —
'it seems to me that, when people speak
deprecatingly of their bluntness, they are very
seldom much in earnest. I mean that, if

they are blunt, they pride themselves on being
so, as if it were a virtue. For my own part, I
think we might all learn to be blunt very
easily if we cared nothing about hurting other
people's feelings.'

That is quite possible,' said Dr. Brydon
composedly.

And as for frankness, — frankness is very
desirable,' the girl went on, ' when we talk
of things that we have any business to talk
of; but frankness about matters that don't
concern us at all does not seem to me a thing
over which we need pride ourselves in the
least.'

Very true ; only who is to decide on
what concerns us ? ' Dr. Brydon coolly asked.
We are concerned, in one sense, in what
interests us.'

Yes, but that sort of concern,' retorted
Diana quickly, ' gives us no right to express
our opinions about things to the persons

who are more immediately concerned with
them, unless in the cases where our opinions
may be asked.'

You are quite right, and I stand reproved,'
said Dr. Brydon. ' I was attempting
to argue in a bad cause ; so I give in, and
only ask you again to forgive me.'

It seems to me,' said Diana severely, ' that,
though you say that, you don't really feel in
the least that you need any forgiveness.'

Miss Fielding,' answered her companion,
you are very shrewd, but it is quite possible
to be too shrewd. You are too shrewd now.
I ask your pardon because I am conscious
that I have said what I had better have left
unsaid.'

Because— that is — you consider me a
foolish girl, who has taken offence at what a
more sensible one would not have minded ? '

No, I don't consider you foolish. If I
did, I might be uncourteous enough to say

that I don't care whether you forgive me or
not. But, as the case stands, I do care. I
am sorry to have offended you.'

I am not offended,' said Diana, after a
moment or two's silence. ' You said what
made me angry for a moment ; but perhaps,
if you only repeated what other people are
saying, I have no right to be angry with you.
After all, it doesn't matter. People will talk.
I suppose they do it everywhere, and — in a
general way — it only hurts us when it gets
repeated to us. Grandpa must get terribly
talked about, I fear ? ' she said suddenly, and
raised her eyes with a half-hesitating look
of inquiry in them.

'Well, he is a standing subject of interest
in the place, I allow,' replied Dr. Brydon
with a laugh. ' It could hardly be otherwise.'


Oh no, it could not be otherwise. I
know that. Well, we must both bear it, I

suppose,' and she gave a little, rather impatient,
sigh.

'Oh, you may bear it easily enough,' re-pied
Dr. Brydon. ' I don't think your lot in
the matter is a very hard one. And as for
Sir Henry, — his neighbours, no doubt, haul
him pretty well over the coals ; but I dare say
you know yourself that he would hardly Hke
it if they took to praising him. My experience
of him is that he has a great deal too
much contempt for them to want their good
word.'

I know he is very scornful at times,"
said Diana reluctantly. ' He is arrogant and
intolerant, and I am afraid he can be both
unjust and cruel ; but if it were not for
him,' exclaimed the girl with a quick change
of tone, ' I could not hive at Wilmotes. I
like him, whatever he may seem to other
people ; and I Hke to be with him. Even
when he is rough to me — and he has been

sometimes very rough — it never changes my
feeling for him. He is the salt of the place
to me.'

He is the salt of the place — and the
pepper too — to a good many people,' replied
Dr. Brydon drily. ' But the love of salt varies
in different palates, you know. For my own
part, I always got on very well with him '

Till he chose to interfere with you, in
what did not concern him ? ' interrupted
Diana suavely, with delicate malice.

The doctor was silent for a moment, and
then he broke into a frank laugh.

Well, you have me there ! ' he said ;
though, remember, that was rather a big
matter — to me and my poor sister, at any
rate.'

I know it was,' Diana acknowledged

quickly ; but ' And then all at once she

closed her lips ; for that other might have
been a big matter to Dr. Brydon and his

sister ; but was this at which lie bad hinted
to her just now a small matter to her ?

They had rambled rather away from the
rest of the company to a quiet part of the
garden where there were few guests except
themselves ; but at this point Diana suddenly
turned round.

It is not so pretty here. Let us go back,'
she said. ' It is a pity we can't play tennis.'

'Oh, I can play tennis ! ' exclaimed the
doctor.

I beg your pardon ! ' ejaculated Diana
rather abashed. ' Then — had you not better
go and do it ? '

Why should I ?' he asked. ' They have
more players already than they want.'

Well, at any rate, I will try and find Aunt
Eivers, and see what she is doing,' said Diana.

Oh, she is all right, no doubt,' he replied :
but he went with her towards the house
without objection.

On the way they met Cecil, wandering
about alone, and probably looking for them.
The poor boy's face brightened as he caught
sight of Diana, and he joyfully set himself at
her side.

I don't know that they are very nice sort
of things,' he said, ' these parties out of doors.
You get so separated from people.'

Well, but you must get separated from
people sometimes,' replied Diana cheerfully,
and you always meet them again, you know.'

And then Cecil laughed with satisfaction.

Oh yes ; fortunately you always meet
them again ! ' he assented, and looked up
with boyish happiness into her face.

I suppose it is almost time for us to go,'
Mrs. Eivers said, with a gentle sigh, when
Diana rejoined her. The poor lady led so
retired and depressed a life at most times
that her afternoon's entertainment, and the
unwonted sight of so many acquaintances, had

quite excited her. ' May we stay for half
an hour more, do you think ? ' she asked
the girl. ' We must be back, of course, in
good time for dinner, but we shan't need to
dress any more, perhaps ; and I think, as weare
here, that another half hour of it would
be nice.'

It was only six o'clock, and they stayed
until nearly seven. Diana was very fairly
amused, and felt in no hurry to depart.
She talked to a good many people, and found
some of them more pleasant than she had
found Dr. Brydon ; though, when at last
they had taken leave of their hostess, and
were driving back to Wilmotes, it was
probably her talk with Dr. Brydon that
remained most on her mind. She went over
it again and meditated on it. ' He is not
very pleasant ; he says things that he is
hardly justified in saying,' she told herself;
and yet she felt a certain liking for him.

111 a degree he interested her, though she
found fault with him.

Do you like Dr. Brydon, aunt ? ' she asked
Mrs. Eivers abruptly as they drove home ;
and, though Mrs. Eivers's answer was a rather
rambling one, she found b herself listening to it
with curiosity.

Well, Diana, I used to like him,' she said.
I confess I did. I always found him very
kind and attentive. I am sure no one could
have been nicer than he was when I was so
ill a few years ago. I never had a doctor I
liked more. But — I don't know — I suppose
he has a nasty temper. At least I know your
grandfather thinks so. Only, to be sure, one
has to remember that poor grandpa's own
temper is — is very hot — isn't it? and I am
sure I don't think Dr. Brydon ever meant todo
anything wrong. It has all been so very
awkward, however ; you can believe that, my
dear ; and really, when I meet him now, I

feel so shy that I don't know what to say to
him.'

*H — m,' murmured Diana thoughtfully,
when she had followed this speech to the end.
And then, after a few moments' silence —

Grandpa is a great tyrant,' she composedly
remarked. 'If Dr. Brydon wanted
to be kind to that poor sister of his, he had
every right, it seems to me, to do what he
thought best, and to bring her to his house,
if he chose to have her there. He might not
have been wise to bring her — that is another
thing — but I like him for having had the kindness
and the courage to do it. Grandpa
is a hard, domineering man, or he would
never have quarrelled with him for such a
cause.'

Of course he would not,' exclaimed Cecil
indignantly. ' But what could you expect ?
Is he ever so happy as when he is treating
people as if they were dogs under his feet ? '

VOL. II. H

He doesn't treat me as if I were a dog
under his feet said Diana quickly. ' You
needn't make him out to be worse than he is,
Cecil. So many people have no sort of
character at all — no interest of any kind
about them. Now, he is interesting — whatever
else he may be.'

But Cecil, perhaps, had not hitherto taken
this view of his grandfather, and he let Diana's
speech — perhaps wisely — pass without a response.


jEANDPAPA, did you know her'
asked Diana.
She was standing looking at that
portrait on .the stairs that they had said she
resembled. To tell the truth, she looked at it
not infrequently, and with a secret but very
conscious sense of pleasure, for it was the
likeness of a very beautiful woman.

Did you know her ? ' she asked Sir
Henry. ' She was your mother's sister — was
she not ? Used she to come here when you
were a boy ? '

She came here when I was a boy, and

H 2

she came here when I was a young man,'
replied Sir Henry, ' and a pretty racket she
kept up in the place when she gave us the
pleasure of her company. She was a stirring
one, I can tell you.'

But — she was nice, was she not ? ' asked
Diana rather anxiously.

The old man laughed. ' She was a
beauty, my dear, and she thought the world
ought all to go the way she wished it, and
unluckily the world had its own views as to
that, and they didn't quite fall in with hers.
My father used to call her a vixen — and so
she was. She was a very handsome vixen
though, and she pricked us up when she
came, and no mistake. I didn't dislike her
for my own part, though we used to fight
like cat and dog.'

Dear me ! ' exclaimed Diana, and looked
inquiringly into Sir Henry's face.

'Yes, she was a masterful woman,* he

said, ' and I was, possibly, a masterful young
man. I don't know ; I may have been. At
any rate we had many a squabble, and she
made her fair share of mischief when she
was in the house, I can tell you. But she
married at last, poor soul — and she had better
have gone and drowned herself.'

'Was it such an unhappy marriage, then ? '
asked Diana, with eager interest.

She was a fool,' said Sir Henry, ' and she
married a scoundrel, when she was old
enough to have known better. She was
pretty near forty, and she had refused a score
of men, and then, like an idiot, she took this
one at last, and he broke her heart for her.
She had never found her master before, but
he mastered her. It was a nasty business,
but she died luckily after three or four years
of it. Poor Aunt Isabel ! ' said the old man,
with a sudden half-contemptuous pity. ' You
wouldn't suppose now, to look at her,

that she would have come to that sort of
end.'

Indeed I should not. It makes one
sorry to think of it,' said Diana ; and she went
away presently, rather gravely, musing on the
story she had heard ; and perhaps for a little
while after this she dwelt on her supposed
resemblance to her fair dead ancestress with
something less of satisfaction. For it was all
very well to be considered like a beautiful
woman, but to be thought like a beautiful
woman who had made a fool of herself —
that, Diana naturally reflected, considerably
changed the complexion of the matter.

And yet,' the girl thought, with a quick
tingling of the blood in her veins, 'grand-papa
would make me act like a fool too, if he
could ! ' And she got hot as she thought this,
and began to make inward vows that she
would never fall in with that scheme for her
that he had in his mind.

Women can be silly in so many ways,'
she said abruptly to Sir Henry one day.
Some go wrong because they are self-willed,
but I dare say as many go just
as wrong and suffer as bitterly because
they give up their own wills, and let other
people lead them. I think some of the
marriages that are made for girls are quite
as bad as any that they make for themselves.'


Humph ! ' growled Sir Henry at this
address, and made no further answer for a
little while. But presently — ' Many a one
argues in that fashion when they are your
age,' he said gruffly.

And not afterwards, do you suppose,
grandpa ? ' she asked in a tone of innocence.
When people are old, do you think they
always believe that age brings wisdom ? It
doesn't in reality, you know. There was
that poor Aunt Isabel, now. Why, she only

grew more foolish apparently, the more years
she got upon her shoulders.'

Aunt Isabel was a headstrong woman
retorted Sir Henry. ' She had never had
anyone in her youth strong enough to break
her will, and consequently, when she was old,
she managed things for herself, and acted like
an old fool.'

Oh ! ' said Diana thoughtfully, and as if
from a mind open to conviction.

Then, grandpa, ought we all to have
our wills broken, do you think ? ' she asked
demurely after a little silence.

Most certainly you ought,' said Sir
Henry grimly.

Both boys and girls ? '

Boys ought to be worshipped ; that is
the way to treat them. But I was not talking
of boys,' said Sir Henry, with a malicious
twinkle in his eye ; ' I was talking of those
pests of existence, young women.'

'Those what? ' asked Diana, incredulously
bending her ear.

Those — pests — of life, — young women,'
repeated Sir Henry, raising his voice.

But, grandpa,' cried Diana, ' young
women are very nice ! '

You think so, do you ? ' said the old man.
I wish you joy of your experience, my dear.'

I certainly think them very nice, — and
on the whole very reasonable. Of course
there are exceptions. I dare say poor Aunt
Isabel was an exception ; from what you say
she must have been a little — difficult ; butin
a general way I think they are so sensible
and easily managed. Only they have their
own ideas, — naturally.'

They certainly have,' assented Sir Henry,
with a vengeance.'

Yes, grandpa ; but don't you think, on
the whole, that young ideas may be quite as
good as old ones ? I always do. Old people

get — well, soured a little, and narrowed, and
prejudiced, but when we are young we see
things so fairly, and with so much freshness.
At least, that is how it seems to me,' said
Diana modestly.

And to every other young goose as
well that I ever came across,' retorted Sir
Henry.

Ah, we shall never agree, I am afraid,'
said the girl with an air of regret. And
then she sighed. ' Grandpa,' she exclaimed
suddenly, ' I don't believe you ever had your
will broken, any more than Aunt Isabel,
when you were young.'

The old man knitted his brows.

What do you mean by that, you fool ? '
he asked sharply.

She shrugged her shoulders. ' You are
awfully rude, grandpa,' she said in an
aggrieved tone. ' I only mean that you seem
to me to be very like Aunt Isabel. Not, of

course in your face, but in your temper, and
and in various other ways.'

You certainly know a precious deal of
what you are talking about,' said the old
man with angry irony.

'Well, I judge mainly by what I see,' explained
Diana pleasantly. ' I dare say you maybe
wiser than she was, but it seems to me that
you are just like her in other things. I
imagine I should have found her very interesting
if she had lived in my time, — just as I
do you. But I dare say you would neither of
you have been so interesting if you had had
your wills broken. I don't knoiL\ of course ; I
only say what I think.'

Humph ! ' growled Sir Henry in his usual
way, and took a few moments to digest this
speech.

And as for myself ' began Diana

abruptly, and then paused.

Hey ? ' said Sir Henry, and cocked his ear.

Well, I was just thinking, ' said Diana.
People are always making mistakes about
themselves, I suppose, and believing that
they know themselves, when they don't ; but
I should say, so far as I can judge, that I am
well, just a little bit like Aunt Isabel too,
and like you, grandpa, — not headstrong,
you know, nor even wilful, but a little —
firm. You see, it's so very much in the
family.'

You evidently consider that it is, young
woman.'

Oh yes,' with heartiness, ' I do, — and
I really think I must be right, because I do
generally get my own way. Of course I don't
mean you to suppose that I don't give up to
people. I give up to papa, and 1 would often
give up to you ; only when I feel very
strongly about a thing,' said Diana quietly,
that would make a difference.'

Ah ! You think then you would take

your own way, my dear ? ' asked Sir Henry
suavely.

Oh yes, then I am sure I should take
my own way,' said Diana, with a face of the
sweetest frankness.

Child, child, you are a great simpleton,'
said the old man not unkindly. ' You talk
a vast deal of nonsense. You had better go
and make pinafores.' And he turned from
her.

Only not for myself ? You don't mean
for myself?' asked Diana, looking after him.

But he went away without making any
reply.

Was Cecil, too, aware of his grandfather's
views concerning Diana ? As time went on
the girl began to have an angry suspicion
and almost conviction that he was, for a new
and peculiar joyousness of expression — though
tempered too with doubt and anxiety —
appeared not unfrequently upon the young

man's countenance, and he followed after his
cousin with a timid but yet hopeful eagerness
that tried her endurance often to the uttermost.
On Sundays he accompanied her
invariably to church ; at the occasional entertainments
to which they were invited he kept
by her side or followed at her heels, till sometimes
in her impatience she could have turned
and rent him. He was so gentle that it
troubled her conscience when she repulsed
him, and yet he was so meekly importunate
that his devotion became something more
than she could silently endure.

Oh, Cecil, I wish you had to work hard
eight hours a day ! ' she exclaimed impatiently
to him once. ' If you had, what a blessing it
would be for — you.' (She had almost said —
for us both,' but she had the mercy to check
herself before the words had left her lips.)
It would give you such an interest in life

When she said this, however, the lad only

smiled and blushed, and — ' I have a great interest
in life already,' he answered ; and his
pale blue eyes beamed on Diana tenderly.

You may have a dozen interests, but you
have not got the one that would do more for
you than them all,' she retorted with impatience.


And then when she said this his face fell,
and the girl's heart reproached her. He was
so gentle, so inoffensive, so devoted ; and she
was often so sharp to him. And yet how
could she help being sharp, she thought,
when if she were to treat him differently,
he would put himself at her feet like a
dog?

'Cecil is so good. Anybody might be
happy with him,' 'Mxs. Rivers said to her wistfully
one day. She glanced furtively at Diana
as she spoke, and the girl against her will felt
the conscious blood come to her face.

That would depend upon the amount of

their regard for him,' she merely answered ina
tone of indifference.

Oh yes,' returned Mrs. Eivers. ' Oh yes
of course. But when one thinks of what
unhappy marriages so many women make,
I do think some good woman might be well
off with Cecil.'

'No doubt she would — if she cared for
him,' replied Diana, still carelessly, and then
immediately after began to talk of something
else.

But — ' They will drive me away. I shall
have to go home soon, if this goes on,' she had
beo^un to think to herself.

She should be driven away, she said ; but
did she want to be driven away ? It seemed
very curious to her, and not satisfactory — but
she was almost conscious that she did not.
She began to fear that there must be a very
worldly strain in her, for, sincerely as she loved
her father, the old life at Hettlestowe did not

appeal to her any longer as something to
which it would be delightful and desirable to
go back. It had been rather a narrow and
meagre life, she could not keep herself from
reflecting — rather a cramped and sordid one.
Whether this that she led now in place of it
was any wider, might be a question, she
acknowledged frankly : in some ways, she was
well aware, it was neither good nor wholesome
; but yet she felt strongly that its freshness
made it interesting to her, and very
strongly and rather humbly that its atmosphere
— the special atmosphere that is given by
wealth — had a charm for her, and that already
in her heart she deeply liked this grand old
house of Wilmotes.

And so, when she thought of leaving it, a
curious reluctance took possession of her, and
I might stay if I liked,' she would often say
to herself. ' I might stay — and be some day
mistress of it all.' And there were occasional

VOL. II. I

moments when this prospect tempted her, and
when she would muse over it, and would ask
herself if it was certain that she could not do
the thing that she was wished to do. But
when she put this question to herself it always
happened that Cecil was out of sight: his
presence always answered it for her, and
silenced speculation with singular rapidity.

As the spring passed into summer she began
to lead a not entirely secluded life, for she became
in a way popular in the neighbourhood,
and such young people as were within calling
distance sought her acquaintance. The West-brooks
especially took a liking to her, and
tempted her pretty often to their house, on the
plea of teaching her to play tennis — which
Diana too on her part was quite willing to be
taught ; so she fell into the habit of going to
Lowton once or twice a week, and Cecil made
an invariable point of accompanying her there,
and assiduously practising tennis too.

I am so glad you persuade jour cousin
to come with you,' Mrs. Westbrook kindly
said to her one day, * for he has always
hitherto been so shy that he would never join
any of our little gatherings.'

Upon which Diana kept her brow smooth
with an effort, and —

Oh, boys are often shy,' she answered
carelessly ; ' but he is growing wiser of his
own accord, shave nothing to do with it.'

And then she moved away, and took an
opportunity next minute of saying something
sharp to Cecil, that she might revenge herself
upon him.

For, was it not trying, the girl thought,
that her cousin should not only always follow
her to this house, but that Mrs. Westbrook,
who probably was quite familiar with what
(it seemed) was the talk of the neighbourhood,
should imagine that she had a hand in
bringing him there ? ' People seem to think

I 2

that girls will do anything ! ' she told herself
hotly ; and poor Cecil did not find that on
this occasion he spent an entirely pleasant
afternoon.

Their visits, however, at Lowton, were
sometimes extremely pleasant, and Diana
found herself taking very kindly to the
three Westbrook girls. She was herself
cleverer and handsomer than any of them,
but in the new satisfaction of knowing girls
at all (for there had been none at Settles
she was little inclined to find any
fault with them, so that the hours they
passed together were productive of no small
satisfaction to her. She threw herself too
into the tennis practising with enthusiasm,
and, being a strong and some girl, she got
before long to play very fairly. Dr. Brydon
came one day when the young ones were all
in the tennis-court, and took part in a game
against her ; and, though he beat her (which

annoyed her a little), he told her also, when
the game was ended, that with a little more
practice she would probably soon be able to
beat them all.

You might become a splendid player, if
you gave yourself enough to it,' he said.

This speech pleased her a little, though
she shook her head at it.

I don't suppose I shall ever be able to
give myself enough to it,' she answered, ' for
I shall have nobody to play with presently,
when I go home.'

I didn't know that you had any thought
of going home ? ' he replied instantly. And
then she coloured a little, against her will,
and —

I am only here on a visit,' she said
with coldness.

We have time for another game,' Sophy
Westbrook struck in. ' Dr. Brydon, you must
stay and play again too.'

So then they played another game, and
again ]\iiss Westbrook and Dr. Brydon won.

This wounded Diana's vanity a little ; for it
was silly, she felt, but yet she knew she would
have liked to beat Dr. Brydon. He was a
person who unquestionably made her antagonistic,
and inspired her with a desire for
victory.

He must come some other day and give
you your revenge,' Sophy Westbrook said.

But Dr. Brydon at this shook his head.

Not I,' he said. ' I don't play tennis
once in three months now, and before I can
come aojain Miss Fielding will be such a
crack player that I shall be afraid to enter
the lists against her. I will stand on my
laurels, and not be so unwise as to tempt fate
again.'

Yes,' exclaimed Diana, half in earnest,
and a little scornfully, ' and while you say
so you think at the same time in your heart

that I shall probably never play nearly so
well as you do yourself! '

Dr. Brydon gave a moment's laugh. ' If
you believe that, I can only hold my tongue,'
he said. ' Besides, I must be off.' And he
straightway bade her good-bye.

Ethel Westbrook burst into an eulogium
on him, as soon as he had £sot out of
hearing.

Isn't he nice ? ' she asked. 'We are all
so fond of him. I always feel as if he was an
uncle, or something of that sort. You see, I
have known him all my life.'

'Oh, I dare say one would like him if one
had known him aU one's life,' replied Diana
dubiously.

But don't you like him as it is ? ' asked
Sophy, surprised.

And then Diana hesitated. She was
always in two minds about Dr. Brydon.

I think he is rather a provoking person,'

she said. ' I always feel as if he rubbed me
the wrong way.'

Dear me ! ' exclaimed Miss Westbrook.
'And vet as a doctor we all think him so
soothing.'

Oh, I don't know what he may be as a
doctor,' replied Diana.

But she had a strong feeling that she
should not like to test him in that capacity —
that she should object extremely to be ill,
and to be obliged to be attended by Dr.
Brydon.

She was thinking this as she and Cecil
presently drove home. Cecil was talking to
her, and she was answering his talk briefly,
and thinking idly meanwhile of other things,
as she had rather a way of doing in her
cousin's company.

'No — it would rile me to be ill, and to
have to be doctored by him. I don't think I
could stand it,' she was saying to herself. ' I

would really almost rather have that vulgar
little man Dobson over from Waite. There is
something about Dr. Brydon '

But at this point in her meditations she
was disturbed by a sudden jolt that shook her
in her seat. Their horse was a young one,
and Diana (who knew nothing about horses)
had already on previous occasions thought
that his action was more capricious than she
Heed.

What made him do that ? ' she abruptly
asked.

Oh — nothing. It's only his play,' said
Cecil soothingly.

I wish he wouldn't play just now,' retorted
Diana ; and she gazed at the animal
suspiciously.

He hasn't been out for some days, you
see,' said Cecil, ' so of course he is a little
fresh.'

• Well, we shall be passing under the line

immediately,' said Diana in a tone of resignation,
' so do be careful, for if a train should
come I believe he would bolt.'

'No, no,' ejaculated Cecil. 'He is all
right. Besides — it is six o'clock, isn't it ? The
train has passed.'

But Cecil said this too confidently, for
before they had driven another quarter of a
mile, and when they were within a hundred
yards of the railway bridge, the whistle of an
advancing engine struck their ears.

There now — it is coming ! ' cried Diana.
You had better turn round.'

I can't turn round,' said Cecil. ' There
isn't room enough.'

Then stand still,' she exclaimed.

Cecil hesitated for a moment. ' I believe
we had better drive on,' he said, — ' but I will
try to stand still if you like. Whoa, Dan !
Whoa, old lad ! '

But Dan had a hard mouth, and a will
that was stronger than Cecil's arms, and he
resolutely began to back ; and, in spite of
every effort that Cecil could make to stop
him, went on backing, till — before Diana in
her ignorance had more than half taken in
the danger of their position — the carriage
went suddenly over the edge of a three foot
deep ditch, and carriage, horse, and passengers
came together in a moment to the ground.

With the shock of the fall Diana was
stunned, — for how long she did not know : it
was probably only for a few seconds. Then
she began to come to herself, and — ' Oh, I
must get up ! ' she dreamily thought, and
tried to move, but the efibrt sent a sharp pain
through her that made her sick. This brought
an involuntary cry from her lips, and she sank
back again helplessly. And then it seemed to
her that she fell asleep. Only, just before

DIANA.

she fell asleep, she was conscious of making
one faint remark. Vaguely addressing the
vacancy that seemed all round her, she heard
herself distinctly saying, ' Don't send for Dr.
Brydon ! '

"jOWE^'EE, as may be supposed, they
did send for him, and when Diana
next came partially to herself the first
elinor she saw was the doctor standing at her
bedside, with Mrs. Eivers at his elbow. To
her astonishment too she found that she was
lying on her back, in her own bed, with the
bed-clothes smoothly arranged over her. Her
eyes upon this opened wide. She was awake,
and yet her mind seemed to have gone from
her. She felt confused : she could not remember
what had happened. Was that really
Dr. Brydon ? She stared at him with blank

fixed eyes : then all at once, with an air of
(in the circumstances) ludicrous command —
What are you doing here ? Go away ! ' she
cried out aloud.

My dear,' exclaimed her aunt, bending
over her, ' it is the doctor ! You have had a
little accident. But, oh dear me. Dr. Brydon,*
and the poor lady turned to him in alarm —
she doesn't seem to understand ! '

No — I don't suppose she does. She has
not got over the effects of the chloroform yet,'
he answered quietly. ' Let her alone. She
will probably go to sleep. We had better
leave her.'

And almost as the door closed behind
them the lids began to drop over Diana's eyes
again. She was too drowsy to comprehend
anything, it seemed to her ; it was very odd
that Dr. Brydon should have been there, —
but perhaps she had been dreaming that
she saw him, she thought ; she supposed she

musthsLve been dreaming, for surely And

then the curtain softly fell, and she sank once
more into sleep.

Her leg had been broken just above the
ankle. ' A bad compound fracture,' Dr.
Brydon pronounced it. He had set it while
she was unconscious, but Sir Henry had also,
at his request, sent for a surgeon from York.
The fiery old man was in a state of towering
passion at what had happened, and had
stormed at Cecil with such violence that the
poor lad — himself half wild with anxiety
and remorse — had fled in dismay out of his
sight.

But Diana, during the first days, knew
nothing of this. She was not in general a
woman whose sympathies were centred in
herself, but her pain and weakness — as was
perhaps only natural in one so unaccustomed
to such things — made her for a time after her
accident self-absorbed, so that she did not

think perhaps so much as she might have
done of either her cousin or her grandfather.
She was immensely interested in what had
happened to her.

A fracture of the leg ? Is that the
whole?' she had asked Dr. Brydon at his
second visit, knitting her brows and looking
keenly at him ; for by this time her mind had
recovered its clearness.

Yes ; that is all. Is it not enough ? ' he
replied.

But I feel other things,' she said. ' I
feel something wrong all down my arm.'

Oh, your arm is bruised — but that is of
no consequence,' he answered.

It pains me very much,' she said.

Never mind,' he returned coolly. ' It
doesn't matter in the least.'

And then Diana held her tongue, but she
thought this response unfeeling, and if she
had been in better spirits would have spit so.

She was not, however, in good spirits at
all ; she was aching all over ; she was sick
and vexed and angry. She had inquired of
course about Cecil, and had learned that he
had escaped from the accident scot free, and
this information (though she was glad of it)
lead perhaps made it more difficult for her
than it would otherwise have been to feel
altogether in charity with him. He had
brought this on her by his want of sense, and
he was suffering nothing himself, she unjustly
thought.

'What ought he to have done when he
saw that engine coming ? ' she abruptly asked
Dr. Brydon, after she had brooded over Cecil's
stupidity for some four-and-twenty hours.

Well, he was in a place where he
couldn't turn, so he had probably better have
driven on,' the doctor replied. ' The worst
thing you can do with a horse like that one
is to stand shilly-shallying.'

VOL. II. K

Oh ! ' said Diana at this response, rather
crestfallen.

But after a moment she was generous
enough to add, though she did it with an
effort :

Then I am afraid the accident was partly
my own fault, for — for — I advised him not to
go on.'

'That was not a very wise thing to do,
Miss Fielding,' Dr. Brydon answered with a
laugh, ' unless you know more about driving
than I am under the impression that you do.
But, if you gave that advice, Cecil was still
more unwise to pay any attention to it.'

And then Diana made no response, but
she bit her lip, and the colour came to her
face a little. ' If I were strong enough I
would answer him,' she thought to herself,
in her offended dignity. But she was not
strong, and she was in pain, and so she had
not the spirit to answer him. Nevertheless

she kept the snub he had administered to her
in her mind, even while, with feminine injustice,
she inwardly assented to his condemnation
of Cecil. ' Of course he ought
to have driven on if he believed it was right.
What did / know about it ? ' she exclaimed
impatiently to herself; for she was a quick-tempered
woman, — not a saint certainly by
any means.

The surgeon for whom they had sent had
by this time paid his visit, and satisfied Sir
Henry by declaring that everything that was
necessary had been done. Diana's eyes had
brightened when she first heard of his coming,
and — 'Oh, then he will attend to me now, will
he ? I am so glad ! ' she had exclaimed.

But when Mrs. Elvers explained to her
that the great man, if all went well, would
only see her once or twice, her face fell

adam.

'Eemember, my dear, he has fifty miles

K 2

to come. He comes all the way from York,'
she said.

Oh dear ! ' ejaculated Diana, ' I didn't
know that.'

And she sighed and turned away her
head. She was disappointed and vexed.
Had she not enough to vex her in the mere
fact of her accident, without the additional
annoyance of having to be doctored for it by
Dr. Brydon, — a man to whom, as a doctor,
she had positively told herself, she could not
submit ?

Oh, I did so want them not to send for
you ! ' she had already exclaimed to him with
peculiar frankness, — making the announcement,
however, it must be allowed, during the
time when her mind was still confused by the
chloroform she had taken, so that she was
scarcely proper mistress of her tongue.

'And what else had you proposed to
yourself that they should do?' he had composedly

replied to her ejaculation, without
looking in the least disturbed by it, and even
giving a half laugh when, taken aback
perhaps by his coolness, she murmured
something in which he heard the name of
Mr. Dobson.'

Oh, you would have liked Mr. Dobson,
would you ? ' he asked when she had made
this rather dubious response. ' Well, you
might have had him, of course, only I am
afraid it is too late now ; and perhaps I have
set rather more broken bones than Dobson
has.'

And then he turned to make some remark
to Mrs. Elvers, as if the matter was one that
was of no consequence at all ; and Diana
closed her lips, and, if she had been more
herself than she was, would possibly have
felt ashamed. Only she was in too dreamy
a state to feel ashamed, and afterwards in a]l
likelihood, as if it had actually been a dream,

her memory of the incident passed away,
though not her vexation (for that was too
deeply rooted) at having in so abrupt a way
become a patient of Dr. Brydon's.

They asked her the day after her accident
if she would like her step-mother to be sent
for, but she thought for a little, and then
answered, ' No. I should love to have her,
but what could papa and the children
do without her? And even if she were
to come, it would scarcely make me less
of a bother to you all here.' So then Dr.
Brydon chose a sensible young woman, who
was one of the housemaids at Wilmotes, and
who had had some experience of illness, to
attend upon her. ' She will be of more use
to you than me,' Mrs. Elvers said, with
humble self-depreciation. ' I should have been
so glad to nurse you myself, dear, — only I am
so terribly nervous.'

'Dear aunt,' replied Diana kindly and

with deep sincerity, ' I know you are.' And
perhaps, though she had an almost tender
feeling for the poor lady, she shuddered a
little at the thought of what it would be to
be left helpless to the guardianship of her
feeble head and uncertain hands.

She had not as yet seen her grandfather.
You must have no visitors at all for a few
days,' Dr. Brydon said to her ; and, having a
certain amount of common sense, she made
no resistance to this command. For three or
four days she saw no one except her doctor,
her nurse, and Mrs. Elvers, and, being entirely
unaccustomed to illness, she found these days
very hard to bear. No days had ever seemed
so long ; she had never suffered such pain
and discomfort before in all her life.

If I might only move a little ! ' she said
piteously on one of them to Dr. Brydon.

Unfortunately, that is the last thing that
you must do,' he answered.

And then she sighed. Of course, she
knew that she must not move ; but had he
any idea, she wondered in a childish, self-pitying
way, how hard an illness like this
was to bear ?

Did you ever break a leg — or anything ? '
she asked him one day suddenly ; and when
he shook his head and answered 'No,' that
simple reply had the unreasonable effect of
perceptibly ruffling her temper.

'Ah, I thought you never had ! ' she said
petulantly. ' I don't know how it is, doctors
never seem to me to get things like other
people. Now, if you had broken your leg I
should have found you interesting.'

I am not so sure of that,' he replied.

But I am,' she said. ' It would have
made all the difference in the world.'

And then he merely gave a moment's
laugh, and began to speak of something else.

He did not treat her or her utterances, she
thought, with much consideration.

But yet she was conscious that she, on
her side, was often fractious and irritable,
and she was really ashamed of herself because
of her fractiousness.

I am afraid I must have a horrid temper,'
she broke out with much frankness to her
doctor one afternoon, ' for, you see, I bear
so badly what other people often bear so
well. I begin to suspect that I am dreadfully
impatient.'

Well, you are not a model of patience,
certainly,' Dr. Brydon assented ; and as he
spoke there was a twinkle in his eye,
which Diana was by no means sure that she
liked. So she knitted her brows rather
severely, and —

I must try and put more control upon
myself,' she said with dignity. ' I shall

be pretty well tamed, I should think, and
h ave the old Adam pretty well crushed out of
me, before I get on my feet again.'

Oh, I don't know about that. The old
Adam in most of us takes an unconscionable
deal of crushing,' he replied.

And then she would rather have liked to
say something more, but on the whole thought
it more politic to hold her peace.

Sm^WMWMWifS^&mSSMS^SSSSSm

CHAPTEE Yin

^y#HEN three or four days had passed,
Diana was permitted to see Sir
Henry, and from that time forward
she found the tedium of her illness a good
deal less difficult to bear.

Oh, grandpa, I have been wearying
for you ! ' she exclaimed on the first occasion
on which he came into her room, and she
spoke with such warmth, and she held out her
hands to him with such eagerness, that the
old man was, perhaps, more touched by her
greeting than he had been touched before by
anything for many a day.

He took her offered hands, and stood
holding them, and looking at her, with a little
twitching at his lips.

I think you might kiss me,' the girl said
suddenly ; and almost to her surprise he
stooped and kissed her.

'Not indeed that you deserve kissing, —
or anything else but whipping,' he, however,
took revenge on himself by declaring sturdily
next moment.

Oh, but in this world we never expect
to get our deserts,' replied Diana smilingly ;
though indeed, if it comes to a question of
that sort, / should say I was getting my whipping
with a vengeance. Grandpa, I don't
like lying here.'

Then why were you such a goose as to
bring yourself here? From all I hear it
is hard to say which of you was the greatest
simpleton, — you, or that other fool.'

Oh, grandpa,' exclaimed Diana with

delightful simplicity, '/ think it was the
horse. If I were you I wouldn't keep such a
horse. He really went on like a fool.'

And what did that idiot who had hold
of the reins go on like ? ' growled Sir Henry
scornfully.

Well, I don't know,' said Diana with
meekness, ' but I don't think there was much
wrong with him. It was first Dan, grandpa,
and then me. I thought Dan was going to
bolt, you see, and that Cecil wouldn't be strong
enough to hold him. I don't know very much
about horses ' — modestly — ' but it seemed tome
that it would have been best to turn
him round.'

When there was only a ditch to turn him
into ! ' said Sir Henry.

Oh, I didn't think about the ditch. But,
you see, it was he and I who were in one
mind about going back, and Cecil who had
the sense to know that we had better go forward.

I hope you haven't said anything
nasty to Cecil, grandpa ? '

The old man made a sound that was very
like a snort ; it might possibly have been a
gurgle of inward laughter.

Don't you trouble yourself about that.
Keep to your own affairs, my dear,' he
answered.

And then Diana looked at him and sighed

Ah, I am afraid you have been scolding
him, — I am dreadfully afraid,' she said mournfully
; ' and if you have, then that will be hard
on me, because I shall have to comfort him
presently, and to tell him not to mind you.
And I am so awfully tired of telling him not to
mind you, grandpa ! I am always doing
it.'

I'll be bound you do it often enough.
You are impudent enough for that, or anything,'
said Sir Henry.

But at this Diana opened her eyes with

innocent surprise. ' Oh, / call it courage, not
impudence ! ' she replied with the pleasantness
smile.

Sir Henry was a methodical man, and
after this first visit he fell into the habit of
coming to see Diana at regularly recurring
hours. Twice every day — before lunch and
dinner — he knocked at her door and sat for
an hour with her, and to these daily visits,
strange as it seemed to the others who were
about her, the girl looked forward as the
pleasantness events in her at present dull life.
He washer tonic, she said. She did not think
much of Dr. Brydon's tonics, but her grandfather's
visits, she declared, gave her an appetite
for her meals.

Perhaps there was a Httle malice in her
mood when she told Dr. Brydon that his
medicines were of little use to her. She did
not dislike Dr. Brydon, but yet she was often
conscious that it gave her a certain pleasure

to vex him ; and she used to justify, or attempt
to justify, herself for feeing this pleasure
by making the dogmatic statement that ' doctors
are always so cocksure of themselves.'
Yet in truth in her heart she knew well
enough that Dr. Brydon was not more cocksure
of himself than the rest of the world.
When she laughed at what she was pleased to
call the uselessness of his medicines, he took
her laughter without offence, and readily
allowed that pleasant companionship was
quite likely to improve her appetite more than
his draughts could do.

Only, all the same,' he added, ' go on
taking the draughts.'

And then Diana shrugged her shoulders ;
but she obeyed his orders nevertheless.

Dr. Brydon, too, timed his visits with
tolerable exactness, and he timed them so as
to avoid Sir Henry. The two men never met.

He thinks it safest to keep out of my

way,' Sir Henry told his granddaughter one
day with a grim chuckle.

But Diana was capricious, and when he
made this speech she turned upon him.

Why, you say that as if you thought he
was afraid of you ! ' she exclaimed. ' Do you
imagine that he is afraid ? I don't think that
you know much about him if you do.'

Pooh ! ' said Sir Henry to this with
contempt.

But although he said ' Pooh ! ' Diana
noticed that he did not pursue the discussion.

It was not until the day on which, wheeled
on a couch, she was first allowed to leave her
room, that she saw Cecil (nor can it be said
that she had desired to see him sooner,
though she had sent him kindly messages now
and then). On that afternoon, with exuberant
eagerness, the boy came and paid his first
visit to her ; and she found it pretty trying,
for he had so much to say — such remorse to

VOL. II. L

express — such sorrow to pour out over her,
that, being of an impatient temperament, she
soon found it too much to stand. And so,
though she had schooled herself to be very
amiable to him at first, her tongue got the
better of her after a little, and she snubbed
him.

Oh, Cecil, do talk of something more
pleasant ! ' she broke out. ' What is the use
of pitying me ? And what does it matter who
was to blame ? I don't suppose anybody was
to blame, — and anyway we can't help it now.
If you think that I find fault with you, that's
pure nonsense ! '

But I find fault with myself ! ' exclaimed
poor Cecil fervently.

Oh, dear me, do say no more about it ! '
cried Diana.

After this outburst, however, she had to
call herself to order again, and to try to cheer
the lad a little before she sent him away.

T have been thinking,' she said sweetly,
that it would be very nice sometimes in the
afternoons if you could come and play to me.
Would you ? '

And then his face cleared, and lighted up
like a sun.

Oh, will you let me? That will be delightful
! ' he exclaimed. 'Do you think — should
you care for me to bring my violin now ? '

Well, no, not now,' said Diana gently.
I think Dr. Brydon will be coming very soon.
But suppose we say tomorrow? You might
come tomorrow after lunch.'

And then Cecil went away comforted.

On the whole, perhaps, as time went on,
Diana felt her long confinement become less
irksome. We are creatures of habit, and
when she had Vain on her back for two or
three weeks it did not seem to her that lying
on her back was quite so intolerable a thing
as it had appeared to her at first. She had a

L 2

pleasant window near which she lay ; she had
constant letters from home to muse over and
to answer ; she had visitors of various kinds,
and many books ; and the discomfort that she
suffered was at least bearable. Dr. Brydon
was satisfied with her progress (though to
herself it seemed slow enough), and held out
cheerful promises that she should be on her
feet again before long.

Though as for expecting that this can bea
short business, that is out of the question,'
he, told her one day bluntly. 'Compound
fractures are no trifles. You must be prepared
to have your patience a good deal tried
yet.'

And then Diana sighed and held her
tongue. She thought that Dr. Brydon was
sometimes rather rough to her, — not knowing
that there were possibilities of evils in a case
like hers, such as he was tender enough over
her not to alarm her by declaring.

She was fond of professing to find fault
with him, but on the first day on which,
through an accident, he failed to pay her his
customary visit, she was rather amazed, and,
in fact, almost taken aback, to find how much
she missed him. It had been his habit to
come to her between four and five o'clock,
but on this day she waited expectantly till
six, and he never came. And then, very
unreasonably — so unreasonably that in her
inmost heart she was ashamed of herself —
she felt singularly cross.

But when one has so few things to break
the monotony of the day, every small thing
seems, in a way, to get important. She lay
thinking — knowing that she was cross, but
yet trying to find an excuse for her crossness.


And then next day, when Dr. Brydon
came again, she received him coolly.

I am sorry I could not get here yesterday,'

he merely said as he greeted her but I
was called suddenly away.'

Oh, it didn't matter,' returned Diana
with indifference. ' Only one likes generally
to know whether people are coming or not,'
she added next moment, with perhaps a
slight unconscious sharpness, which, however,
seemed lost on him, for, without making
any response, he simply sat down and felt her
pulse.

You are getting on capitally,' he said.

'You have told me that a great many
times, but I am sure I can't tell how you
know it,' she answered ungraciously. ' /
shall think I am getting on well when I find
myself upon my feet.'

'Well, you will do that now, I hope,
before very long,' he said.

" Before very long ! " ' she echoed. ' But
I don't know what you mean by " very
long," Dr. Brydon?' And then, almost in

the next moment, she looked up to him with
rather a wistful look, and — ' I am a very
bad patient, I know,' she said with quick
repentance.

You are a patient who is not used to
being ill,' he answered with a half laugh.

'No, I am not used to being ill, and it
seems to make me so dreadfully irritable,'
she said almost piteously. ' I know that
presently I shall be ashamed of myself. Indeed,
I am ashamed of myself already.'

But I only find you irritable now and
then,' he answered kindly enough. ' Don't
trouble yourself about that. I am quite sure
that to you the Hfe you are leading now must
be very hard to bear.'

'Because you think that I have so little
power of endurance ? ' she asked slowly, after
a moment's silence.

Not at all,' he replied. ' I should say
that in some directions you had probably a

good deal of endurance. Only you don't like
inaction.

Oh no, I don't like inaction.' She said
this heartily.

Then you must expect to suffer more
than perhaps the generality of women would
when you are laid upon a sick-bed. But
presently I expect you to benefit from your
energy. Some people, you know, are very
nervous after an accident like yours.'

Oh, I don't think I shall be nervous ! '
cried the girl almost joyfully. ' When I have
once got the length of even beginning to walk,
then I shall feel like another creature — like
my own self again.'

Well, you will begin to walk in a little
while now, I hope,' replied Dr. Brydon ; and
then, unsympathetically, said no more.

But when Diana actually got upon her
feet some days after this, and made her first
attempt at walking, perhaps (though she held

her tongue) she may have remembered his
reserve, and have reflected that there had
been some reason for it.

For she did not find the business of
beginning to walk again an operation of at
all the exhilarating nature that she had expected
it to be ; she found, on the contrary,
that it was curiously unpleasant. She took
two or three steps on the day on which she
was first allowed to attempt it, supported on
either hand by her nurse and Dr. Brydon ;
and then suddenly, before she could get back
to her couch, the room swam round with her,
and she fainted.

This, when she came to herself again,
amazed her greatly.

Had you any idea that I should be so
weak ? ' she asked Dr. Brydon, fearing, perhaps,
poor soul ! that she had fallen into some
quite abnormal state ; and he had to use his
cheeriest words to reassure her.

'Why, of course you are weak,' lie said.
How could you be anything else, when you
have never been in an upright position for a
month? You were sure to be giddy when
you first tried to stand up. Don't be in the
least alarmed. It will wear off in a very few
days.'

And I had been thinking,' she ejaculated,
that it would be so delightful to feel myself
standing up.'

Well, wait a little while, and it will be
delightful,' he answered cheerfully.

But as the days went on Diana thought
that the pleasures of her convalescence increased
upon her very slowly. She began, it
is true, to feel much less giddiness when she
walked, but she also began to experience a
certain tendency towards lameness, which,
slight though it was, she was clear-sighted
enough to perceive caused Dr. Brydon some
anxiety.

I suppose it will come right presently ?
she said to him with a Httle dubiousness.

It will come right if we make it come
right,' he answered bluntly.

And then, after another visit had been
paid her by the surgeon from York, she found
herself subjected to a fresh method of treatment,
and one that tried her not a little ;
for the hmb had slightly contracted, and had
to be stretched out, and the process of getting
it stretched out turned her sick.

I suppose sometimes people who have
broken their legs are left permanently lame ? '
she said to Dr. Brydon tentatively one day,
and he could see by her face that she had put
her question not without trepidation. So he
made his tone specially cheerful as he answered
—

They are often left lame if the breakage
has been ill set, and sometimes in complicated
cases whether it has been ill set or not ; but

you are not going to be left lame, so don't
give yourself any concern about that. I am
sorry to have to make you suffer the discomfort
you are doing now, but it will be
over soon.'

And you think I shall be all right in the
end ? ' she asked still anxiously.

I have no doubt of it,' he said heartily
' not a doubt in the world.'

And then she felt comforted ; and not
without reason, for in another week she was
able to walk without any lingering trace of a
halt.

Up to this time Dr. Brydon, with few
exceptions, had come to see her every day ;
but on the afternoon on which he satisfied
himself that all need for anxiety about her
was at an end, he said, before he went away :

Well, this is Tuesday. You won't need
me now for another day or two. I will see
you again on Thursday or Friday.'

Oh ! ' exclaimed Diana, taken aback by
this announcement.

But he took no apparent notice of her
exclamation, and merely bade her good-bye
and went away, leaving her curiously ill-pleased.


Not coming again for three days I ' she
said to herself. ' Why, all sorts of things
may go wrong in three days ! I must say it
seems to me rather a cavalier way of treating
one.' And she repeated something Hke this
to herself, at intervals, a good many times.

Moreover, when the next day came she
missed her doctor's visit. She had a little
headache ; she was also a little cross ; if he
had come he might have done both her head
and her temper good, she thought. ' But he
is evidently in a great hurry to throw me off,'
she told herself in a piqued way. ' Some
doctors, I believe, are like that. They are
nice to you so long as you are really ill, but

as soon as you begin to get better they don't
take a bit more interest in you. Well, I
don't really care ; only I do think that when
one has to spend such dreadfully long dreary

days all alone However, grandpa,

happily, is better company than Dr. Brydon.'

And presently, when Sir Henry came into
the room to sit with her, Diana received him
with almost exaggerated warmth. But still
his visit did not quite restore her temper to
its normal state of equanimity.

She was surprised, to tell the truth, that
she missed her daily talk with Dr. Brydon, —
surprised and not by any means too well
pleased. ' I must have got into a very stupid
state to care about it,' she thought. But still
she did care, and moreover she could not
dismiss the matter from her mind. ' Will he
come tomorrow?' she began to wonder.
And she told herself that he would not come,
and that indeed she did not care whether he

came or not ; and yet when the day passed
and did not bring him, she was wroth.

And, in consequence, upon the following
afternoon, when he at last made his reappearance,
she received him with an air of supreme
indifference.

Oh, I am all right. I am getting on very
well. I am pretty near fit now, I should
think, to take care of myself,' she said.

I dare say you are quite fit,' he answered ;
many convalescents are. The great difficulty
generally is that so many of them won't
do it.'

Won't do what ? ' she asked.

Won't take care of themselves. They
like to throw their doctors off and go their
own way.'

It seems to me that the doctors rather
like to throw them off,' said Diana quickly.

And then, having made this impulsive
speech, she coloured a little, and hated herself.

But Dr. Brydon was perhaps obtuse, for
he took no notice of it.

'I am thinking,' he merely said after a
moment's silence, ' that I should like very
much to get you out into the garden. If we
could have you carried downstairs in your
chair '

What — now ? ' interrupted Diana with
her face alight, and forgetting her imagined
injuries in a moment.

Yes ; shouldn't you like it ? '

Oh, of course I should ! ' she exclaimed.
I should like it immensely.'

Then we will have it done,' he said.

And before ten more minutes had passed,
to her delight she found herself again in the
open air.

It was a change that seemed to transform
her at once almost into another creature.
She was so exhilarated that she laughed for
very gladness. She walked slowly for five

minutes ujd and down one of the garden
walks, holding Dr. Brydon's arm ; then she
sat down in the sunshine with Mrs. Eivers
and Dr. Brydon and Cecil round her. She
was restored to the sweetest temper and the
happiest spirits. She smiled on them all
round. She felt in the most Christian charity
with them all.

Only, when, at the end of some twenty
minutes. Dr. Brydon rose to take his leave, a
slight but visible cloud fell on her face, and
' Oh, if you are going, then I had better go
too,' she hastily exclaimed. ' I mean, in case
I should not be able to manage properly
about getting upstairs.'

But you are going to be carried upstairs,'
he said. ' However, if you would
rather have me see you safely back, I will
wait.'

I would rather, if you don't mind,' she
said almost humbly.

VOL. II. M

I am very far from minding,' he replied,
not without a certain heartiness. And then
he sat down again for another quarter of an
hour.

After that it was she who proposed to
return indoors, and, holding by his arm
again, she went back to the house, and he
saw her restored to her room.

You ought to get into the garden now
every day,' he said to her. ' If you care to
wait for me I will come again tomorrow
afternoon and take you. You won't feel
nervous after another day or two.'

Oh no,' replied Diana, ' I dare say not.'

But she did not say, ' Don't come tomorrow.'
So he came.

For almost another week he continued
to come each day. Perhaps it was her
fault that he did so, for she could easily have
dismissed him, if she had chosen, with a
word ; but each day she half resolved within

herself that she would not let him come
again, and yet when the moment for releasing
him came she did not release him. She
tacitly let it continue to be assumed from
day to day that she felt nervous in walking
unless she held his arm. She let the others
believe this, and she almost even believed it
herself. ' I should have no confidence in
Cecil,' she argued, ' and of course grandpa's
arm would be no use at all ; but Dr. Brydon
is so strong, — and then too he understands
so much better than the rest.'

So he continued to pay his daily visit, and
to take her each day for her walk about the
gardens, till she was ashamed to let him come
any more.

One day, therefore, at last she made up her
mind that she would tell him she was strong
enough to need him no longer. She came
downstairs that day without his help, and
ate her lunch with Cecil and Mrs. Eivers, and

M '1

after lunch went out of doors with a book,
and sat under a tree on one of the lawns to
read it.

She prepared to read because she did not
want Cecil to stay with her. She had taken
]his arm to cross the lawn ; but when she was
seated, and had submitted to his companionship
for five minutes, she let him understand
that she did not want him any longer.

Go away now, and get a walk, or a
ride,' she said to him. ' It is such a lovely
day. I shall be quite happy here with my
book ; and I have got my stick if I should
want to go in again.'

But I don't think it is right to leave you,'
Cecil objected wistfully, having a great desire
to stay where he was, poor lad ! and none
whatever to take the exercise that she proposed
for him.

Upon this she tapped the ground with
her foot, however, and was inexorable.

It is perfectly right, and I want to read
she said.

And then he had no choice but to go ;
and when he was gone, she opened her book ;
for, having a regard for truth, she was
anxious to act up to the profession that lie
had made to Cecil ; and she read it for a
quarter of an hour. But perhaps the volume
was not interesting, for her attention unquestionably
wandered from it. She was
sitting whence she could see a portion of the
avenue, and towards this bit of the avenue
her eyes turned often, and her ears instinctively
listened for the sound of carriage
wheels.

She had grown a little thin and pale
during her confinement to her room ; but
she was fast recovering her looks now. Yet,
though she was well, she was conscious that
she was not happy ; she was neither happy
nor satisfied with herself. It seemed to her

as if after to-day her life would become
somehow very colourless and flat. — without
interest, — without expectation ; and she was
angry that she should feel so, and not only
angry, but ashamed. ' 1 must be stupidly
weak still, though I don't know it,' she
thought.

She had sat by herself for half an hour
when she heard at last that sound of wheels
for which she had been listening, and as she
heard it the colour involuntarily came into
her face. This was another sign of weakness,
and she hated herself for it. ' What does it
matter ? What does it matter ? ' she inwardly
exclaimed with angry impatience, and
lie felt curiously as if a few blows with a rod
would do her good.

But the rod was not at hand, and after a
few moments Dr. Brydon came to her across
the lawn.

I am glad to see you here,' he said

cheerily as he approached. ' This looks indeed
like progress.'

It is more than progress ; it is completion,'
she replied suddenly ; and she smiled
upon him as she gave him her hand — rather
too radiantly perhaps.

He gave a slight laugh, and asked, ' Is
that what you call it ? ' But she could not
tell from his tone whether he had taken in
her meaning. He was an undemonstrative
man, and she had often before now said things
to him that she had never known whether or
not he understood. People of that sort are
not unfrequently provoking ; and to tell the
truth. Dr. Brydon had provoked Diana in one
way or another during these weeks more thana
little.

Yes ; I think that it is time I gave up
being an invalid, — don't you ? ' she inquired,
in a frank way. ' I have been thinking so for
several days ; and if it were not that being

shut up in the house seems to make one
stupid and nervous, I should have shaken off
my fetters at any rate a week ago. I am
sure you thought last week that it was full
time for me to do it, didn't you ? ' she
abruptly said.

I certainly thought that you would be
glad to throw them off as soon as you could,'
he answered.

Do you say that because you know I
am so impatient ? ' she asked quickly.

And then he paused for an appreciable
moment, and after that pause — ' Well, yes, in
some degree,' he said. ' Xo doubt you are
impatient. Very active people frequently
are. It is not to be wondered at in the
least.'

No, but it is to be condemned, I suppose ? '
she said.

And then he took apparently so little
interest in her question that he made no

reply to it ; and she was hurt, and bit her

lip.

There were other garden-chairs on the
lawn, and he drew one near her, and sat
down, and they began to talk about ordinary
things ; but Diana talked with indifference.
She felt rather dreary ; half angry perhaps,
half disappointed, altogether dissatisfied with
herself.

And then, after barely a quarter of an
hour, he got again upon his feet.

Well, I think that you are right, and
that I can do nothing more for you,' he said
abruptly. ' You only want bracing now.
Take your tonic for another week, and then I
will probably look in again.'

And so you dismiss me ? ' she asked with
a smile.

I dismiss you — provisionally,' he answered
; ' but you must not forget to be
careful. Check your natural impulsiveness.

Don't attempt to walk too miicli. Eemember
always that you are not yet strong.'

Do you think that you need remind me
of that ? ' she asked with sudden impatience,
or imagine that / need to be reminded of
it?'

He gave a laugh at this question, and —
Why, yes, I do,' he replied, ' for you are
very impulsive. You are exactly the kind of
woman to do something rash, without considering
the consequences. But I beg of you
not to be rash during these next weeks.
Eather, if it be possible to you, be over-cautious.'


'Oh, you will see that I can be cautious,'
she said, smiling her cold smile again.

'Well, I trust you,' he replied, and put
out his hand.

And then, without any further response,
she gave him hers, and bade him goodbye.


But after she had bidden him good-bye,
and he had gone a dozen steps away from
her, suddenly her conscience (or perhaps her
heart) smote her, and, like the impulsive
woman that he had told her she was, she
hurriedly called him back.

Dr. Brydon ! ' she said hesitatingly.

He turned as he heard her voice, and she
rose nervously up.

Come back for a moment ; I want to say

I want to ask you ' she said. ' I am

letting you go without giving you one word
of thanks. You may well think me uncourteous
and ungrateful.'

But I do nothing of the sort,' he interrupted
her cheerily. ' Don't fancy such a
thing. Besides, why should you be grateful ?
You may thank your good constitution for
your recovery far more than you need thank
me.'

Yes, but you have been very kind to me

she said gently, ' and I have often been very-cross.'


You have been — as healthy young people
often are,' he replied. ' That is, you have
felt your confinement a good deal.'

But I ought to have borne it better.'

Not at all. You have borne it very
well.'

I ought, though. It is no use to say it,'
and she gave rather a nervous laugh, ' but I
have been often very much ashamed of myself.
Please believe me, Dr. Brydon, — and
that I thank you for all your goodness.'

And then she put out her hand to him
again, and Dr. Brydon as he took it saw that
the tears were in her eyes.

Perhaps that sight touched him ; but he
only showed his appreciation of it by the
warmth with which his fingers closed over
lies. For a moment they stood hand in
hand, then —

Go back to your seat,' he said kindly.
Good-bye again ; and remember all I have
said to you.'

Oh yes,' she answered, ' I will try to remember.'


And then he was gone, and she took up
her book once more mechanically ; and a
quarter of an hour afterwards Cecil thought
she was absorbed in it when, having taken
his walk, he came back and joined her again.

WAS a goose yesterday, but I am
not going to be a goose again
to-day,' Diana said, when she got
up next morning, and she confronted her
looking-glass as she dressed her hair, and set
her teeth pretty viciously at the image that it
presented to her. She had been a great goose,
and she hated herself for it. The remembrance
of it, she deliberately observed, made
her sick. But now — having mercifully got
rid of her doctor — she was going to turn over
a new leaf. ' Of course I shall be careful,'
the girl thought ; ' for it would be awful to

have to bring him back again ; but from this
day, to the utmost of my power, I mean to
put all this horrid time behind ray back. I
mean to forget it, and make a new start.'

And then in this humour she dressed herself,
and proceeded to make arrangements for
the employment of her day on these fresh
lines.

But, try to deny it as she would, as the
hours went on she found her spirits droop.
She wrote a letter home after breakfast, and
then she read a little, and then she did some
embroidery, sitting with and talking to her
aunt ; but as she embroidered and talked to
her aunt she yawned. The summer while she
had been confined to the house had grown
wet, and though for the last week or two the
days had improved a little, yet this special
day was again chill and dull.

'I should like to go out, but it seems so
damp,' she said.

Oh yes, it is too damp,' returned Mrs.
Eivers. 'But I think that after lunch we
might go for a drive.'

And then Diana assented, and they took
a drive in the afternoon ; and, leaning back
upon her cushions, the girl fell fast asleep.

It seems to me a sleepy sort of day, — don't
you think it is ? ' she said when she awoke —
one of those dead sort of days that make
one stupid.'

Oh, you must remember that you are
weak still, dear,' her aunt said.

Upon which Diana sighed impatiently.
Yes, she was weak still ; she was absurdly,
miserably weak. Was anybody else half so
conscious of that as she was herself, in her
own wrathful heart ?

Grandpa is always a resource,' she had
said to herself in the morning. ' When one
is dull he gives one a splendid fillip ' ; and so
she had made up her mind that she would

spend a great deal of time ^^dth her grandfather
; but unluckily to-day Sir Henry was
out of sorts. He did not leave his room till the
afternoon, and though, when Diana returned
from her drive, she found him in the garden,
she found also that he was in one of his most
fretful and perverse moods.

Oh, grandpa,' she exclaimed as she
joined him, ' I am glad to see you ! I was
longing for you.'

It is more than I was for you, then,' he
retorted grufSy. ' I was longing for something
very different.'

But not for some person very different,
were you?' asked the girl with a laugh. ' I
don't mind, so long as it was only a thing''

And do you suppose that I imagine you
would mind, whichever it was ? ' demanded
the old man roughly. ' You're like the rest
of them. You think if you flatter an old fool

VOL. II. N

you can wind him round your finger. Where
have you been gallivanting to ? '

We have been " gallivanting " about the
moors, and I have been to sleep,' she said.
I fell asleep because I was dull, and I came
^o you here just now because I wanted something
to amuse me ; but I don't think you are
going to amuse me ; I think you are too cross.
Are you ? ' and she looked at him wistfully.

What the devil is that to you ? ' demanded
Sir Henry with a roar. And, lifting
up his stick, intending to strike it on the
around, he unluckily struck it on his toes
instead, with a result (for he had been lately
having" some twinges of gout) that made Diana
clap her hands to her ears.

Good gracious, grandpa ! ' she said.

! ' hissed Sir Henry

through his teeth.

Oh dear, if you go on like this, I can't
stop ! ' cried the girl.

And who the deuce wants you to stop ? '
shouted Sir Henry.

And then, thinking that retreat was her
most dignified course, Diana retreated.

It was awful for anybody to swear so,
she thought. And then she sighed. And it
was hard that he should break out swearing
to-day, when she was so weary, and stupid,
and sad.

For in truth she incas sad, and she knew it.
She felt so horribly tired of herself, and of
Mrs. Eivers and Cecil. She was even conscious
of a distinct feeling of aversion to herself, and
of a loss of all interest (temporary only, it was
to be hoped) in her own personalty. There
was nothing she could think of that she
wanted to do ; the world and herself, it seemed
to her, had all at once grown stale, flat, and
unprofitable. ' If this is the way in which
invalids feel generally after they have been ill,
I shall have more sympathy with them hence

2

forward for the rest of my life,' she declared
to herself emphatically before the day came
to an end.

And yet she was not ill ; correctly speaking
she was no longer an invalid ; she was
only suffering from the lassitude and weariness
of her past invalidism, she supposed —
from that, and from a curious, unacknowledged
sense of loss. ' But I shall get right
soon. I must get right soon,' she told herself
almost fiercely before she went to sleep.

Her grandfather might help her, she felt,
more than anybody, if he only would ; but
the difficulty was that Sir Henry at present
was in so fretful a mood that the getting of
either any entertainment or any consolation
out of him was difficult. His digestion was
out of order, and his flying gout had lent
such force to his temper that Diana, though
she was never frightened by him, found, as
the days went on, that wisdom and inclination

alike required her most frequently to leave
him to himself.

You are just like an old growling lion,'
she boldly said to him, one afternoon when,
feeling more at ease perhaps, he was ina
mood of comparative mildness. ' I used
to wonder how you could make people
afraid of you in the way you did, but I have
left off wondering during this last week. I
am very sorry for you, you know. You and
I are exactly the same ; we don't like being ill.
Do you know — ' with charming frankness —
that, since my accident, I have often been so
horribly cross myself '

Ah ! and you put it down, no doubt, to
the Eivers' blood,' retorted the old man
jeeringly.

Well, yes, I think it must be the Eivers'
blood,' Diana complacently acquiesced. ' It
is clear that it gives people very curious kind
of tempers, doesn't it? I am afraid, grand-papa,

that we are both really very passionate.
I have been thinking over it, and that is the
conclusion I have come to. Only I mean to
mend my temper, if I can, because I find you
such an awful example, you know. I should
think that at my age it would be possible to
mend it ; don't you think it would ? '

I think you are about the most impudent
piece of goods extant,' said Sir Henry.

Yes, grandpa, only one must keep up
one's spirits somehow,' replied the girl, and
gave a sudden sigh. 'You and I both get
stupid, it seems to me, when we are ill, — and so
I talk nonsense ; and somehow I am not sure
that the nonsense makes things any better.'

Why, what have you to complain of ? '
asked the old man sharply. ' Why should
you want things to be betters Isn't there
many a one who would give their eyes to be
in your shoes ? '

To be in my shoes, grandpa ? '

The girl looked up into his face, genuinely
puzzled for a moment; then, as comprehension
of his meaning came, her colour suddenly
rose, and —

To be in what you call my shoes might
suit a great many other people better than it
suits me,' she said steadily. ' The shoes will
never fit me.'

But when she said this, Sir Henry fell into
such a fury that she wisely backed from him.
He called her a fool, and paid her various
other compliments, and swore that if she
talked so Hke an idiot, he would pack her
out of the house.

This threat made her smile.

I will go away tomorrow, if you like,'
she said. ' They will be very glad to have
me home again, and I have been thinking of
late that I should like to see them very
much.'

And then he stormed Si^sdn a little, but

soon his storming died away into angry
muttering, and the girl went to his side once
more (they were walking on the terrace), and
stole her hand into his arm.

Grandpa,' she said half deprecatingly,
don't let us be angry with one another. Weare
a pair of hot-tempered people, but we
belong to each other, and we have never
quarrelled yet. You see, I like your self-will,
but you never seem to like mine ; and I
don't think that's fair.'

Child, if you were not more to me than
the others,' said the old man slowly, after a
little silence, " do you think I should care
about this thing ? If you were nothing tome,
should I care to think that you would be
mistress here when I am gone ? '

'Grandpa!' she ejaculated in a low
tone of pain.

He turned upon her with a gleam of fire
in his eyes.

Is that such a hard thing to ask from
you ? ' he exclaimed abruptly. ' Are there
not tens of thousands of girls who would
clutch at it ? If you refuse what I want,
what is it that you have to fall back upon ?
You would have a position here that would
make you envied, — that would be enough to
tempt any woman ; if you reject it, what do
you propose to do with yourself? '

I propose simply to go home. What
else can I do ? ' she said.

To go home ! ' he repeated contemptuously.
' To give up the possession of all
this ' — and he extended his arm and swept it
round him — ' and for what ? Merely because
you are a baby, a child, a fool 1 '

Grandpa,' Diana said, with her voice
trembling a little, though she tried to speak
steadily, 'you want me to do a thing that I
have not the courage, nor the hardness, to
attempt You want me to marry a man — a

boy rather, I should say, for whom I caro
nothing.'

Well, and what then ? ' demanded the
old man sharply. ' What necessity is there
that you should care for him ? If he cares
for you can't that content you ? And the
calf has fallen in love with you. I suppose
you know that pretty well ? '

I was thinking of myself, not of him,' she
said.

Then think of yourself to some purpose,'
he retorted. ' In what way can you do better
for yourself than by marrying him ? '

'Grandpa, you know I am sorry for
Cecil. I pity him very much ; and in a way
I like him. But' — she paused for a moment,
and then she added gravely — ' but I despise
him too.'

Well, and what of that ? I've no doubt
you do,' cried Sir Henry, and his voice had
a ring almost of satisfaction in it. ' Heaven

knows I despise him myself. But he is my
heir — the place is entailed — more's the pity,
or I'm hanged if I wouldn't leave it away from
him. Here he must reign after I am in my
grave, unless he goes first into his, which I
have almost ceased to hope for. He must be
master here, in name, at least ; but, child,
I want you to be mistress, and master in
fact:

'Oh, grandpa, hush!' Diana said.
You are too good to me, — you are too kind
and generous,' she said with emotion after
a little silence ; ' but don't go on talking about
this. I shall never be mistress here. And
when we go to dinner presently ' — and she
broke into an unsteady laugh — ' I will drink
Cecil's health, and a long life to him ! '

You simpleton ! ' growled Sir Henry.

But he held his peace after this, and
Diana went her way presently (for as yet she
took only short walks), and thought over the

talk of the last ten minutes with rather a
troubled mind.

'Oh, if only there were no Cecil in this
place ! ' she ejaculated to herself, — ' no one
but grandpa and Aunt Eivers, and — a girl
cousin, perhaps, — how easy it would all be ! '

But, unhappily, poor Cecil was an existing
and embarrassing fact.

She was often very impatient of him, she
felt with contrition, in these days. He on
his side was invariably gentle and humble in
his manner to her, but that very gentleness
and humility often irritated her horribly.
She was not the sort of woman to take pleasure
in a man's following her like a dog.
But Cecil was always dog-like ; his devotion
involuntarily showed itself in that way, and
seemed capable of taking no other form.

Oh, Cecil, I wish you were more of a
man ! ' she felt roused into exclaiming to him
one day. And when she made this hard

speech he merely looked at her wistfully,
and —

I often wish that, too. I often feel that
I shall never be anything but a boy,' he
humbly answered ; ' unless, indeed, you will
help me ? ' he ventured to add half below
his breath ; and then he looked up at her
with the piteous, beautiful, dreamy eyes that
she had grown almost to hate. They were
such feminine eyes, she thought, the sort of
eyes that she never wanted to see in a man's
head. Many girls, perhaps, might like them.
I only wish,' Diana used to think fervently,
that some such girls were here ! '

When Dr. Brydon had wished her goodbye
that day in the garden he had said that
he would see her again in another week, and
after eight days he came. But when he came
Diana and Mrs. Elvers were out driving. ' It
doesn't matter, though ; I have done with
doctors,' she said when she came home and

heard of his call ; and she went upstairs to lier
room humming a tune. Of course she did
not care that she had not seen him. ' Why
should I care ? ' she said half defiantly to
herself.

A few days afterwards she met him in the
village, and he stopped to speak to her ; but
he stopped only for a moment or two, and
then, being busy apparently, passed on ; and
the girl resented his haste, with the colour
flushing into her face. He had not been used
to grudge his time to her, she thought. ' But
people have evidently only an interest for him
so long as they are patients,' she told herself
now, not without a little heat. ' He looks at
his fellow-creatures only as a doctor, and not
as a man. Well, it is a pity, I think.' And
the next time that she met him she treated
him with supreme coolness, passing him
merely with a bow; though, when she had
so passed him, her heart smote her, and she

had the worst of that encounter in the end,
perhaps.

She was of a nature, presumably, to be
easily hurt by what she conceived to be neglect
; but yet she was, at least, so far just to
Dr. Brydon that on the first occasion after
her illness on which she saw his sister (it
was one Sunday after church) she spoke
warmly to her of the debt she owed her
brother.

I can't tell you how kind he was to me,'
she said heartily. ' I was a bad patient, but
he was the most perfect of doctors. He often
used to make me ashamed of myself for being
so weary and cross.'

He never told me that you were cross,'
Mrs. Brydon answered. ' He was very much
interested in you. He always gets so interested
in his cases.'

And then, to tell the truth, Diana's
generous emotions became checked, and

All, yes, that is just what I supposed he did,*
she answered dryly ; and, whereas she ought
to have felt gratified at having her suspicions
concerning Dr. Brydon confirmed, in reality
she felt curiously sore and ill content. ' " His
cases " ! Yes, we are all simply " cases " to
him, and not human beings at all!' she
scornfully said to herself ' Well, I am glad
I have not got much to do with him.' And
she went home almost believing for the
moment that she rejoiced over that fact, and
hugging herself in her contempt.

And yet a day or two afterwards, when Dr.
Brydon overtook her on his way to Wilmotes,
and, sending back his trap, walked to the
house with her, the girl knew that she was
glad, — that she ceased to be angry with him, —
that she found his talk pleasant, — that she
liked his company.

He was going to Wilmotes, too, for Sir
Henry had sent for him, as, in spite of their

quarrel, his various ailments drove him at
times to do.

Your grandfather has caught cold, I
hear ? ' he said to her after a few moments.

Yes, he seems to have got cold ; but it
is only a little chill, I think,' she answered
lightly. ' And he says he is going to have
an attack of gout.'

'Very Hkely he may be,' replied Dr. Brydon,
'though, for all your sakes, I hope not.'

And then Diana laughed. ' Little chills '
were not things that seemed serious to her,
and as for attacks of gout, her grandfather
had been having them for twenty years, and
she was conscious of feeling something almost
like curiosity to see his conduct under one.

'I suppose, if he really were to have a
bad attack, he would frighten us almost out
of the house ? ' she said.

Well, he would let you hear some strong
language, I believe,' said Doctor Brydon.

VOL. II.

At any rate he takes care that his man and
his doctor do.'

Oh dear ! ' exclaimed Diana, ' I wish he
had a better temper ! '

I am afraid,' replied Dr. Brydon dryly,
that that is a thing past praying for.'

Sir Henry had kept his room all day, and
Diana had not seen him. The day before
had been damp, and, disregarding its dampness,
he had taken his usual walk.

That was not a wise thing to do,' Dr.
Brydon said to him.

I didn't bring you here, sir, to tell me
whether it was a wise thing or not,' retorted
the irritable old man. ' I sent for you to
tell me how to get my breath.'

And then Dr. Brydon proceeded to examine
and prescribe for him, and told him
not to rise upon the following day till he had
seen him again. But the next day happened
to be bright, and, when the doctor came

about twelve o'clock he found his refractory
patient already up, and seated in an arm-chair
before his Library fire.

So you are better, sir ? ' he said to him.

'Yes, I am better,' returned Sir Henry
stoutly.

But, when Dr. Brydon felt his pulse, he
shook his head over it.

You had no business to get up,' he said.
Your pulse is very quick and weak. There
is no use in calling me in, you know, if you
refuse to do what I tell you.'

I'm hanged if I'll do what any one tells
me against my reason ! ' retorted Sir Henry.
If I'm weak, what do I want to he in bed
for? I'm going to have some chicken for
my lunch, and a couple of glasses of port.'

I thought you had gout hanging about
you ? ' said Dr. Brydon dryly.

And if I have gout hanging about me,'



shouted Sir Henry, ' isn't it the best thing I
can do to bring it out? You're a pretty
fellow to talk of weakness ! If I put myself
in your hands you would feed me on water-gruel,
and I believe you would soon have meat
death's door.'

I imagined that you had put yourself
into my hands, sir ; but, if that is a mistake,
I beg to bid you good-morning,' said Dr.
Brydon coolly, and took his hat and departed,
leaving the old man furious.

'An insolent, overbearing jackanapes!
I'll see him at Jericho before I send for him
here again ! ' he broke out to Diana when she
came to see him a few minutes afterwards.
'An ignorant, domineering puppy, with no
more sense than an ape ! '

Dear me ! ' exclaimed Diana, ' who in the
world are you talking of, grandpa ? '

I am talking of that fool who was here
just now,' retorted Sir Henry.

Of Dr. Brydon ? Ee is no fool,' said the
girl quietly.

'He is a consequential idiot ! ' persisted
the old man. ' If he comes here again, I'll
have the door shut in his face.'

She looked at him for a moment or two ;
then —

Grandpa, what has he done to make
you angry ? ' she asked. ' He sent you some
medicine yesterday that did you good. You
are very ungrateful to turn upon him like
this to-day. You are horribly ungrateful, it
seems to me. You make me ashamed.'

Hey dey ! ' cried Sir Henry, opening his
eyes.

No wonder people speak ill of you, and
say you have an awful temper. It is awful.
It is unworthy of you,' said the girl severely.
I don't know what Dr. Brydon may have
said to you just now, but I am sure, from
your being in such a passion, that it is you

who have been in the wrong. Oh, grand-papa,
I can't bear you to do yourself such
injustice ! ' and her tone suddenly changed,
and in her tenderness over him she all at
once put her arm about the old lion's neck.
Why do you do it? You make everybody
your enemy ; you keep everybody from seeing
the better side of you — everybody except me.'

Child,' said Sir Henry after a little silence,
with something rather like a stoppage in his
throat, 'you are a fool too.' But when he
had said this he looked up steadily into her
face, and there was a kind of dimness in his
keen old eyes.

Don't cross me, my dear,' he said presently,
and he raised his hand to hers and gripped it.
You are more to me than that boy is — more
to me than any of them were. Eemember
that. Think of that, Diana.'

I do think of it,' she answered in a low
voice. But as she spoke her heart sank.

And then, after another moment or two
his fingers relaxed their hold, and she drew
her arm away.

I am going to have some chicken, and a
couple of glasses of port for my lunch,' he
said in his ordinary dry voice after two or
three moments' pause.

'Is that what Dr. Brydon ordered for
you ? ' asked Diana.

Dr. Brydon be hanged ! ' vociferated the
patient.

But the chicken was brought to him
presently, and he tried to eat it ; and he drank
his port, and then fell asleep in his chair.

'I think he looks very poorly, and very
feverish,' Diana said to Mrs. Eivers. 'And
he has flown into a passion with Dr. Brydon,
and sent him away. It is very unfortunate.
What are we to do now, if he should get
worse ? '

Oh, my dear, we must send for Dr.

Brydon again. What else can we do ? *
exclaimed Mrs. Eivers. ' But I hope it won't
be necessary. You see, your grandfather
has such a fine constitution.'

But — he is seventy-five, and I think he
looks so feeble now,' said the girl.

She felt troubled about him ; but her
eyes opened with amazement an hour afterwards
when, sitting alone near to an open
French window, she suddenly heard a sound
of familiar steps upon the gravel walk outside,
and, looking up, perceived that Sir Henry
was in the garden.

At this sight she stared for a moment or
two, and then jumped to her feet, and ran
out.

Grandpa, I don't believe you ought to
be here ! I am sure you ought not to be
here ! ' she exclaimed. ' You don't mean to
say that Dr. Brydon said you might ? '

I never asked him, my dear,' Sir Henry

replied with a chuckle. ' Our interview was
too short to give me time. But I've dismissed
Dr. Brydon, to make room for Dr.
Common Sense, and Dr. Common Sense tells
me to take a little fresh air when I feel the
want of it. That other fool would have sent
me to bed.'

There was a bright colour on the old
man's cheeks, and Diana felt frightened.

'Come back into the house,' she said
earnestly. ' We may long for fresh air sometimes
when it is not good for us. And the
day is damp, grandpa, and — you have a
cold.'

I may have a cold, but I am not cold,'
retorted Sir Henry stubbornly (and indeed,
looking in his face, Diana did not doubt
it). 'I was choked in that room. Tut, tut,
child, I have managed myself for sixty years :
do you think I have forgotten how to do it
now? '

'You may have managed yourself for
sixty years, grandfather, but that does not
say how many foolish things you may not
have done in the course of them. Oh, come
in now,' exclaimed Diana, ' and be wise. I
do believe you are only doing this to spite
Dr. Brydon ! '

And then he began to laugh, and his
laughter made him cough ; and laughing, and
coughing, and choking, she brought him back
into the house.

I'll take some of my medicine,' he said,
still gasping, when he was planted again in
his arm-chair. ' The fellow gave me a rare
good medicine yesterday — that I'll allow. I
thought it had cured me.'

It was beginning to cure you, I have no
doubt,' replied Diana severely. ' But what
is the use of having doctors, if we don't do
what they tell us ?. '

If we did half what they tell us,' retorted

the old man, ' we should go prematurely into
our graves ; that's what / think. A pack of
cut-ands dried fools.'

And he becfan to couch acrain, and
coughed till Diana called his man, and got his
medicine brought to him.

A week passed after this, during which
Sir Henry kept the house, and throughout
which he was very hard to manage ; his
temper, at all times irritable and violent,
being made doubly irritable by confinement
and the discomforts of his physical condition.
The whole household had a bad time with
him. He stormed at his servant ; he treated
Cecil like a dog ; he snubbed Mrs. Elvers, and
even made Diana feel the edge of his tongue
so sharply that she turned on him one day,
and told him she would pack her boxes and
leave Wilmotes the next morning ; upon
which the graceless old fellow pulled himself
together, and, while he still continued to

make himself a terror to all the rest of the
establishment, behaved himself to her (perhaps
at the others' expense) with a decent,
and even at moments with something that
was almost a pathetic, consideration.

Can you bear nothing from a helpless
old man ? ' he said to her half furiously, half
piteously on the day she told him she
would go away. And as he put this question
to her he looked into her face, and she looked
back at him, and perhaps each read something
in the other's eyes that a stranger
would not have seen there.

She gave a little smile after a moment
or two, and, ' Yes, I can bear willingly as
much as I ought ^ she answered. ' It would be
bad for both of us, grandpa, if I were to
bear more.'

Humph ! ' growled the old man scornfully
upon this ; but he turned his head away, and
made no further retort ; and Diana went

about her business with a pleasant consciousness
(which, she being generous-hearted,
made her very good to him) of having been
the victor.

But yet, as these days went on, they grew
to be anxious days to her.

He has a dreadful cold ; he really isn't fit
to be out of bed,' ]airs. Rivers began to say,
helplessly and repeatedly. ' I don't know
what to do about him — I really don't.'

You can't do anything — that is the worst
of it,' replied Diana. ' He ought to have Dr.
Br y don again.'

But, Diana, I have done all I can to persuade
him,' exclaimed Mrs. Elvers, ' and he
won't.'

And indeed the poor lady had come to nota
little grief already over that endeavour.

'Grandpa, you are awfully obstinate,'
Diana frankly told him one day. ' You are
obstinate, and quite unreasonable, and I

thought it was only weak people who were
like that. Do you know you disappoint me
very much ? Why don't you give in ? I
really believe that in your heart you would
like to do it ! '

'Give in about what?' demanded Sir
Henry, feigning ignorance of the drift of this
speech (though in reality, no doubt, he understood
it perfectly).

About Dr. Brydon,' said Diana. ' You
know that you feel ill, and stupid, and that
you want doctoring.'

I feel ill and stupid, that's true enough,'
said the old man bitterly. 'But as for

needing doctoring What I need is to

have twenty years taken off my shoulders ! '

Yes, but seeing that can't be done, you
ouf^ht to fall back upon a doctor. Grand-papa,
let Aunt Eivers write to Dr. Brydon,
and ask him to forget his last visit, and come
again ? '

I'll be hanged if she shall ! ' said Sir
Henry, with a force that caught his breath
and sent him off into a fit of coughing.

Yes, there you go ! You ought to be
ashamed of yourself,' said Diana severely.

His old eyes, swimming in water, blinked
up at her.

What — ucrh ! — ucrh ! — what in the world
do you mean — ugh! — ugh ! — ugh! — ^by that?'
he gasped.

I mean that to have such a cold as this,
and to do nothing for it, is so dreadfully silly,'
she said.

I am taking medicine for it, half a dozen
times a day,' he shouted.

Yes ; but very Hkely it is not the right
medicine,' she retorted. 'How do you know?
Dr. Brydon prescribed it more than a week
ago. If he saw you again now he would
probably give you something quite different.
Grandpa, shall we send for Mr. Dobson ? '

Shall you send for your grandmother ! '
cried Sir Henry contemptuously.

'Well, Mr. Dobson is not much of a
doctor, I believe,' she said. 'But there are
heaps of people in York.'

Will you hold your tongue, child ? ' he
broke out. ' Do you want to make me think
I am going to die ? '

No, grandpa,' she said quickly ; ' God
forbid ! ' And she put her hand on his, with
a sudden moisture in her eyes. ' No,' she
added after a moment ; ' but I think that bad
colds are sometimes serious things, and I
can't bear you to go on like this, not getting
any better.'

But she could not prevail with him,
entreat as she would, and another day or two
of inaction passed.

And then suddenly one evening, without
any warning, as he was about to retire to
rest, he was seized with a fit of shivering, so

violent and so prolonged, that, no longer
thinking of waiting to obtain his consent, a
man was sent on horseback as fast as he
could ride to bring out Dr. Brydon.

During the early part of this day it had
seemed to Diana that he had shown some
increased signs of weakness. He had risen
very late, and an hour after rising had fallen
asleep in his chair before the fire.

I feel sleepy ; yes, I feel very stupid and
sleepy,' he allowed when he awoke again.
It's all this confounded cold. I believe I'm
a fool to keep indoors with it. A walk in
the air would stir me up.'

Perhaps Dr. Brydon would allow you to
have one if he were to see you,' said Diana,
with (possibly) pardonable Jesuitism.

But the old man was not to be caught in
this way.

'You'd like to see me giving him the
chance ! ' he said with a sneer. ' No, I won't

VOL. II. P

see Brydon. I hate the fooL But I'll tell you
what you may do. If I don't feel better tomorrow
you may send a note for me to
Hammond at York.'

I could do that to-day,' she said.

But this made him angry. ' You shall not
do it to-day ! Will you hold your tongue ? '
he broke out. ' God help the man who lives
in the midst of a set of meddling fools ! '

I think,' said Diana after a little silence,
/ would say rather, God forgive the man
who is so obstinate that he will take no
advice ! '

Will you hold your tongue ? ' reiterated
Sir Henry.

'Oh yes,' said the girl, 'I will hold my
tongue, since it is no use to go on speaking.
But, grandpa, of all the unmanageable,
unreasonable people — Talk about women
being unreasonable ! I never knew a woman
so bad as you.'

And launching this farewell Parthian dart
at him, Diana betook herself from the room,
accompanied by some half-articulate muttering
from Sir Henry that, on the whole,
however, she thought it most dignified to
ignore.

He is in an awful humour, but he says
at least that if he is not better tomorrow we
may send for Dr. Hammond,' she went away
and told Mrs. Elvers. ' It is no use suggesting
Dr. Brydon any more to him. He won't let
me utter his name. Isn't it vexing ? But at
any rate it is something if we may send for
Dr. Hammond.'

Oh, it is more than something ; it is a
great deal,' said Mrs. Elvers.

'It would be a great deal more if we
might send for him to-day,' returned the girl.

But she did not dare to do this, and so the
day passed on as usual, and towards evening
Sir Henry seemed a little stronger, and wasp

2

able to sit at dinner with them, as, indeed, he
had only failed to do yet on one or two occasions.


I shall cheat the doctors yet, you'll see,'
he said to Diana with a chuckle.

'If I were you, grandpa, I wouldn't try
to do that,' she answered when he made this
speech. 'But you always have such a dreadful
way of wanting to get the better of people
as if we were all wild beasts who had to
defend ourselves from one another.'

So we are ! ' retorted Sir Henry. ' So weare,
with very little exception, my dear ! '

Ah, if / believed that I think I should
want to get out of the world,' said the girl.

He ate his soup and chicken with some
apparent appetite, and when they rose from
table he let Diana take him back into the
library. The fire and the lamps were burning
cheerfully there, and he went up to the hearth
and held out his hands over the blaze.

The summers are not so warm as they
used to be, child,' he said. ' I've known a
time when I couldn't have borne a fire here in
August. That was when my blood was a
little hotter than it is now, you'll say.'

If your blood was ever hotter than it
is now, it must have been in an awful state,'
she only answered with a laugh.

He echoed her laughter complacently
enough as he dropped down into his chair.
Ah, I was never one of your lukewarm
people,' he began to say next moment.
There are plenty of them in the world — too
many for my taste. I was one of the old sort
who knew when I liked a thing and when I
didn't, — and loved my friend and hated my
enemy.'

I can quite believe that you hated your
enemy, sir ; but I should rather think that
you did that better than — the other thing,'
remarked Diana dryly.

What — than I loved my friends ? ' returned
the old man. 'Well — I never certainly
found any difficulty about hating some
people heartily : and I don't pretend that I
had ever very many friends. But yet the
loveless old man has loved some people, child,'
he suddenly added — ' one or two when he was
young ; and perhaps one now, — in his childish
old age.'

Grandpa ! ' said Diana quickly and
softly.

She looked at him with eyes shining
through a sudden mist of tears. ' Grand-papa,'
she said with emotion, ' I am glad I
came to Wilmotes.'

Why don't you make up your mind then
to stay at Wilmotes ? ' he asked sharply. ' If
you are glad, show it in that way. I care
for deeds, not words.'

I won't give you words then, at any rate,'
she returned.

But suddenly she stooped down and for a
moment put her fresh cheek to his.

And then after a few seconds more, as washer
usual habit, she went away, leaving him
alone in the room.

She went to the drawing-room where Mrs.
Rivers was knitting in the twilight, and Cecil,
at an open French window, half in the room
and half out of it, was standing listlessly kicking
his heels. The boy spent a good deal of
time in kicking his heels, and it was an occupation
that rather tried Diana.

Won't you come for a stroll, cousin ? '
he said to her eagerly as she came in. ' I
have been waiting, hoping that you would. It
is such a lovely evening, and there is a moon,
you know.'

Yes,' replied Diana, ' I can see it from
here.' And she dropped down into a chair.

And then he came and planted himself in
front of her, and began to talk.

He talked about himself and the music he
had been practising that day. He was one
of the most harmless and innocent souls under
heaven, but he had come in his intercourse
with Diana to find an endless delight in talking
to her about his doings and his aspirations and
his emotions — and these topics had long ceased
to interest her. Their range was small, and repetition
had made them monotonous. Moreover,
Diana was not musical. So Cecil talked,
and she sat by the open window, only saving
herself from weariness by not Hastening to him.

She sat thinking her own thoughts — but ^
her thoughts troubled her. How could she
endure a life, she was asking herself, in which
that voice should be always in her ears — and
with the right to be always there ; so that she
could not escape from it, nor even take
refuge from her enforced submission to it in
an inward impatience and disgust ? ' Grand-papa
wants me to do what it is wrong to ask

from me,' she thought. ' He wants me to
take a position that I am not fitted to fill, and
to swear to do a thing that I should fail in
doing. I think, if I give him the promise
that he wants, it ^Yil\ break my spirit — and
break my heart ; and yet, when he appeals tome
as he has been appealing of late, how can
I so on refusing' him ? ' She sat thinking

CO o

this, while Cecil went on with his simple
monologue, and Mrs. Eivers's knitting-needles
clicked in the distance.

And then suddenly the door of the room
in which they all were was opened, and a
servant's startled voice called to them to
come to the library.

Sir Henry is ill ! ' he said. And Diana
sprang up before the others, and was the first
to reach the old man's side.

He was sitting over the fire, as she had
left him half an hour before, shivering as if he
was in an ague fit, his teeth chattering, and

his hands convulsively clutching the arms of
his chair. She went to his side and spoke to
him, but he took no notice of her.

Then it was that a messenger on horseback
went dashing down the hill for Dr. Brydon ;
and in another hour the grim old man —
vanquished and helpless at last — was got laid
in his bed.

E fell asleep after some time, and
slept, though in a troubled way,
for the greater part of the night,
but when he awoke in the morning, he was
too exhausted to raise his head from the
pillow. ' I feel as weak as ditch-water,' he
said. He made this remark to Dr. Brydon,
staring hard in his face as he made it. He
was not quite himself, Diana thought. He
had taken no apparent notice of Dr. Brydon's
reappearance — merely accepting it without
any comment.

For two days he lay in bed, sleeping a

great deal, and hardly ever awakening to full
consciousness ; then, after that pause, the
keen and dominant spirit of the man began
once more to give signs of revival. On the
third day he swore at his valet ; and once
or twice, when he came near him, he looked
at Dr. Brydon with a sinister eye.

What is that fellow doing here ? ' he
demanded at last of Diana.

But when he asked her this question, she
replied with spirit, ' He is doing a very
charitable thing ; he is returning good for
evil.'

Upon which Sir Henry gave an inarticulate
growl, and inquired no further.

But he continued after this to watch Dr.
Brydon ; and when another day or two had
passed — one afternoon when he was standing
by his bedside —

How much longer is this going to last ? '
he abruptly demanded of him. ' You've kept

me lying here, I believe, for something like a
month already. When shall I be able to
get up?'

He looked straight at Dr. Brydon as he
put this question, and there was an expression
of defiance in his gaze, but along
with the defiance something else that touched
the other man with a sudden pity for him.

He shook his head. 'I can't tell you
that,' he answered.

Why can't you tell me ? ' exclaimed Sir
Henry fiercely. ' Am I not getting better ? '

Dr. Brydon paused for a moment. Then,
very quietly — ' Xo,' he said ; ' you are not
getting better.'

The old man lay immovable, without a
muscle stirring, till several seconds had
passed.

Do you mean,' he demanded, almost
threateningly then, ' that I am not going to
recover ? '

There was a certain apprehension — an
angry apprehension — in his tone, and yet
aloof with it a half scornful incredulity.

Yes — I am afraid there is some chance
that you will not recover,' Dr. Brydon deliberately
said.

As he made this answer Sir Henry still
kept his gaze upon him ; he was no coward,
whatever else he was, and there was no look
of flinching in his face.

Send for another doctor,' he only said
authoritatively, after a minute's silence. ' If I
am to be killed, I prefer to be killed by a brace
of you. Telegraph for Hammond from York.'

I think that will be a very good thing todo,'
Dr. Brydon replied ; and within an hour
the telegram was sent.

During these past days Diana had spent
the largest part of her time by her grandfather's
bedside. Her vigils at first, while

the old man lay half conscious and half
asleep, had been light and easy enough, but
they changed their character after entire
consciousness returned, and she found it no
light business then to minister to him, and
soothe his refractory humours. And yet,
violent and almost unmanageable as he often
was, still, in a curious way, she liked to be
with him ; she bore his impatience, she sympathised
with his sufferings, she returned to
him again and again, even after his roughest
speeches.

I thought I had seen the last of you,' he
growled out at her once, after an outbreak
of temper had driven her from his room for
an hour or two ; but when he said this she
only, with a strange feeling of tenderness,
stretched out her hand and laid it upon his.
For a few moments she gave him this mute
caress — the strong young hand covering his

old and withered one — and then she leant
towards him, and —

'Grandpa,' she said, trying to speak
playfully, and yet with a little tremor in her
voice, ' when we are fond of people do you
think we ever really let them drive us away ?
I only stayed away so long as this to — let you
get into a better temper.'

'And do you think I am in a better
temper now?' asked the old man sarcastically.



Upon which Diana paused for a moment,
and then, ' I think that perhaps you will be
better after this, — since I have come back,'
she ventured very meekly to say.

But still, with all her willing endurance,
she often found the burden she had taken on
her shoulders a difficult one to bear ; for, as
the old man's weakness increased, so did his
irritability, till he often put no limits to the
licence he allowed his tongue. Never before

in her life had Diana had such an experience
of invalidism ; and it shocked and distressed
her beyond expression. She had been accustomed
hitherto in her village visiting only
to more or less decorous sick-beds, — to the
sight of dying people content to pass out of
the world in at least a resigned if not an
edifying way. By such a sick-bed as this
she had never before sat ; and her womanly
nature and religious spirit could hardly fail
to regard it with awe and terror. And yet
there was something in the girl's heart that,
even through all she had to see and hear,
made her stretch out the arms of her love,
like a tender covering, over the unlovely
sight of her grandfather's last days.

I don't know what the' have been doing
to me,' the old man said to Dr. Hammond ina
tone of angry complaint when, on the day
after they had telegraphed to him, the
physician arrived from York. ' I can't get

VOL. II. Q

my breath, I'm good for nothing. You
must find out some way of setting me up

adam.

Well, my dear sir, I will do my best,'
Dr. Hammond replied.

But when, after he had paid his visit, he
saw Mrs. Eivers and Diana, he prefaced his
report to them with a grave shake of the
head.

I don't think you will have him out of
his room again : I don't think you must expect
it,' he said. ' It is a very bad bronchial attack,
and it is complicated with some other things ;
and I fear, even if the disease were to be got
subdued, that he would not have strength to
rally. I will write a prescription ; but
you may be perfectly satisfied with Dr. Briton's
management of the case. Sir Henry
could not be in better hands.'

It fell to Diana to be the first to go
into lier grandfather's room after drummond

had left the house. For a quarter
of an hour she stayed away without courage
or heart to go ; but the ordeal had to be
faced, so after that pause she quietly opened
his door and went in.

She found him lying in an attitude of impatient
expectation, wide-awake.

Well, what's the meaning of this delay ? —
what does the fellow say ? ' he demanded the
instant she appeared, speaking in a voice that
was husky with weakness now, but looking at
her, as she came to his side, with eyes that
still sparkled with their old fire.

Diana put her hand for a moment on his
grey hair before she replied to him. Then,
after that brief pause, ' He says just the same
that Dr. Brydon says,' she answered.

And how do I know what that is ? '
cried the old man violently. ' How do I
know what any of you say behind my back ?

Q 2

Am I oroinor to set better ? That's the
question.'

She sat down by his bedside ; for a few-seconds
she did not know how to answer
him ; then, hardly more than half aloud, ' He
thinks that there is a chance,' she said.

A chance that I shall die ? ' cried Sir
Henry.

No,' she answered sadly, ' a chance
that you may live.'

A sound broke from the old man's throat
that sounded like a muttered curse : it might
have been a curse, or merely an ejaculation —
Diana could not tell which ; he lay silent
after he had uttered it for some moments ;
and then, before either of them spoke again,
the girl bent down all at once and kissed the
hand that lay upon the coverlet, almost
passionately.

Grandpa, do all you can — do all you
can ! ' she began earnestly to say. ' You

have been obstinate and wilful hitherto. Ah,
don't be wilful any more ! God gives us such
strength sometimes that we can make death
itself go back, —and you have been strong for
so many, many years.'

But he made no answer to her appeal.
After a brief pause he only in silence drew
his hand from hers and turned his face away.

For a day or two after this he seemed t(^
fight against the fate that he could no longer
refuse to believe was threatening him, though
he fought, indeed, not in the spirit in which
Diana would have had him do it (and the
spirit in which she herself did it), but with
a blind and almost animal resistance, the
furious resistance of a fierce, unbroken, ungovernable
will. Diana tried to wrestle with
God for his life ; he wrestled for it with some
very different power ; but the prayers of the
one were denied, and the futile rebellion of
the other crushed and conquered ; and

when three more days had passed after Dr.
Hammond's visit all the house, and all the
country side, knew at last that Sir Henry
was dying.

For some little time longer he was still
conscious, and there was still light at moments,
and a kind of hard defiance, in his eyes ; but
his pulse scarcely beat, and his voice had
sunk into a hoarse and almost unintelligible
whisper. During these final days Diana sat
with him hour after hour. Sometimes she
thought he hardly knew her : at other times
he would try to rouse himself and would
address sudden questions to her that, to her
distress, she could not understand, and that he
would repeat, with angry insistence, till her
heart ached ; but gradually all these lingering
signs of life and consciousness grew more and
more rare, till he sank at length into a stupor
that was the precursor of his last sleep.

Through all the final hours Diana remained
with him, waiting for the end. He
had had no regular nurse during his illness,
his man who usually attended on him
having been capable, Dr. Brydon considered,
of doing all for him that was required.
Throughout the last night he and Diana and
Dr. Brydon sat up together in the sickroom.


She had got to rely very much on Dr.
Brydon during the fortnight of her grandfather's
illness ; her old antagonism towards
him seemed to have ceased ; his presence
had become very pleasant to her ; his kindness
had upheld her more than she almost
knew. He was a man whose sympathy was
not demonstrative, but yet she had come to
feel a peculiar trust in it.

He said to her to-night, ' You can do
nothing more for him ; he will never know

you again ; you had better go and try to get
some sleep.' But she could not bear to go. She
knew that she could do nothing more, but
]her heart yearned over the old dying man
with an unspeakable yearning. She had
a sorrowful, piteous feeling that in all the
world she was the only creature who loved
him, and the only creature who would mourn
for his death.

He has been always good to me,' she said
softly. ' Oh yes, I know what he has been to
others. I know all his faults ; if we had lived
longer together, / might have grown hard
against him too ; but during these few months
he has meant kindly by me. He has
treated me as if he cared for me. And now
there is no one who will be sorry for him
except me.'

She said this very quietly to Br. Brydon
as she sat with the old man's hand in
hers.

She passed half the night so, sitting beside
him. In the early hours of their vigil the
three watchers had scarcely spoken, or had
spoken only in whispers ; but as Sir Henry's
sleep deepened even Diana knew that no
human voice would ever pierce his ears again.
He had become unconscious of every sound
on earth. And then at last, in the grey
light of dawn, the end came ; and the girl
burst into tears, that no one shared with her,
as she kissed the dead face.

Cecil was in the room then, but he stood
at some paces from the bed, as if afraid to
draw nearer, even at this final moment. They
had left Mrs. Pavers undisturbed. The lad's
face had a scared look on it, as if he was unable
to realise what had come. With something of
the same look he had gone about the house
for days ; conscious no doubt, almost guiltily,
that the years of his bondage were coming
to an end, and yet, in his awe, only trembling

at the strangeness and bewilderment
of the thought, not daring to rejoice in it.
He stood looking at Diana now rather than
at his grandfather, — wondering perhaps in a
vague, boyish way at the tears upon her face.

CHAPTER XI

lANA had telegraphed to her father
the day before Sir Henry's death,
and Mr. Fielding readied Wilmotes
on the following afternoon.

Oh, my dear, I have wanted you so ! If
I had dared I would have sent for you a
week ago,' the girl exclaimed to him joyfully
as she met him, and, half crying, put her arms
around his neck, and hung about him, and
feasted her eyes upon him, with an intense
consciousness of comfort. Did he not belong
to her as no other creature could ? Did not
the bare sight of him take away her loneliness?

She carried him to the privacy of her
own room, and asked him a hundred questions,
and poured out a hundred confidences
to him. All the pain and terror of these last
days seemed to lift themselves from her heart
as she looked in his face and listened to his
familiar voice again.

There is nobody, I think, to send for
except Mr. Fielding,' Mrs. Eivers had already
said to Dr. Br yd on. ' Sir Henry had almost
no relations — and no friends.'

Therefore the Eector was the only person
who arrived at Wilmotes, or was invited to
the funeral.

Of course at the ceremony Cecil had to
be chief mourner — a curious mockery, in
Diana's eyes.

The creature whom he loved least in the
world,' she exclaimed bitterly — 'and who
gains most by his death ! '

Yes, my dear — only, he can't help that,'

her father mildly answered. ^ If Sir Henry
disliked him, it was he who was to blame,
and not the lad. The boy is a very good,
amiable young fellow, so far as I can see.'

And then, after a moment's silence, Diana
assented to this speech.

Oh yes, he is amiable,' she said ; ' and I
am not finding fault with him. But, all the
same, there is something wrong when he has
to act a false part — as if he was sorry that
grandpa is dead, when grandpa was only
a terror to him, and his death has made him
free and rich. I think it is / who should
be chief mourner,' said the girl suddenly.
Chief mourner — and only mourner,' she
added sadly and half aloud.

But, of course, the custom of the world
was followed, and Cecil (he was Sir Cecil
now) had to do what was expected of him,
and take the lead of the very small company
who attended the funeral, and stand in the

most prominent position at the grave. Diana,
the Eector, and Dr. Brydon were the only
others who, merely filling a single carriage,
started from Wilmotes to follow the old man's
body to its grave. The few others who
joined the procession on its way joined it
unasked.

They did not read Sir Henry's will on the
day of his funeral, but on the next morning
his man of business came with it from York,
and it was read in the library, in the presence
of the Eector and Cecil.

Would you like to come too ? ' Mr.
Fielding asked Diana ; but, after hesitating
for a moment, she answered ' No.'

'I shouldn't understand it. I would
rather wait till you came and told me,' she
said.

But in reality she shrank from accompanying
him because of what she sadly called
the selfishness and worldliness of her nature.

For she would so gladly have thought nothing
and cared nothing about her grandfather's
will, and yet she was too honest not
to confess to herself that she did care about
it — that she had thought about it a hundred
times — that all her future life might be affected
by what she should learn within the
next half hour. Would he have left her anything
? Would he have left her nothing ? A
hicrher-niinded woman would have forced
herself not to think or care, she humbly told
herself; but she both cared and thought.

She sat waiting in the little boudoir that
adjoined her bedroom after her father had
gone to the Library for what seemed to her a
long time. It was a mild October day, and
she sat at her open window gazing out for
the greater part of an hour, almost motionless,
though with her pulses beating fast ; and
then at last she heard her father's step outside
the door.

The next moment he entered the room,
and came up to her in silence. She looked
at him anxiously. His expression was grave
and perplexed ; in one moment she saw (and
at the sight her heart sank) that it did not
denote satisfaction.

He sat down at her side before he spoke :
then he cleared his throat.

I have kept you waiting a long time, I
am afraid,' he began ; ' but I was detained
by Cecil. — Well, my dear, we have read the
will.'

Yes ? ' she merely answered briefly.

'And, as 5^ou may suppose, it is a — well,
in some respects, it is a curious document.
Of course all the real property goes to Cecil.
He had no power to alter that.'

• I am very glad he had not — for Cecil's
sake,' she said.

Yes — so am I. I am very glad. He
provides very properly for Mrs. Eivers too.

She is to have a thousand a year for lier Use.
But he practically leaves Cecil almost a poor
man, for he divides the whole remainder of
his personal property amongst a number of
public institutions — very good institutions, no
doubt — hospitals and colleges for the most
part.'

Ah, that was unkind,' she exclaimed.

Yes, I think it is unkind ; I think it is
unfair to the lad,' he answered.

And then he paused for a moment, and
cleared his throat again.

This is all of any consequence that is
comprehended in the body of the will,' lie
resumed after this brief silence. ' It is dated
some years back. But there has been a
codicil added since — added two months ago
since you came here, my dear.' And
suddenly, as he said this, the Eector, with a
hesitating movement, laid his hand on hers.

She looked at him intently (her heart

VOL. II. E

quickened its beating too), but she did not
speak, and after another moment he went
on —

This codicil revokes many of these
charitable bequests, and in their place leaves
you a legacy, — but, under conditions.'

She still sat silent, but the colour rose
into her face.

My dear, I am grieved,' her father
hurriedly said. ' I am grieved and perplexed.
The legacy is a large one ; it is 50,000/. ; but he
leaves it to you only on condition that you
marry your cousin within a year.'

Ah ! ' ejaculated Diana.

It was a low exclamation, hardly above
her breath, but it was eloquent enough to
close the Sector's mouth. He sighed an
inward sigh, and sat in silence. Her hand
was still in his, and he stroked it softly once
or twice. More than a minute passed before
lie spoke again.

Oh, grandpa ! ' were the first words she
said, with a kind of wail, ' I would not have
done this to you.'

My darling ! ' the Eector could only
murmur tenderly.

I knew he wanted it — that marriage, I
mean,' she began to say after a little while.
He liked me, and he wanted to think that I
should be here when he was gone. That was
all from affection for me (I am not going to
speak ill of him, father, like the others, now
that he is dead) ; he was fond of me, but he
could not bear to be opposed, and so he
has tried this way of breaking my will. Oh.
I am sorry ! He might have left me just
some small thing (when we are so poor !) for
love's sake — even though I crossed him.'

I think he might,' the Eector answered ;
most other men would.'

'But he was not much like other men,"
she said thoughtfully.

E 2

He was not indeed — mercifully,' the
Eector fervently responded.

There was a pause for several minutes
after this, and then he looked almost timidly
into her face, and —

I am afraid, my dear,' he said with hesitation,
' that I must not ask you whether you
feel that you can comply with his condition ? '

I don't think you need ask me,' she
answered.

Well, no — no, I suppose not,' said the
Eector, and sighed inwardly again. 'But no
immediate decision is required, my love.
The matter, happily, may stand open for a
year.'

It need not stand open for a day ! ' she
cried quickly.

Ahem ! ' coughed the Eector. ' Perhaps
you are right, Diana ; very likely you are
right, my dear ; still, as it is unnecessary to
give any positive answer at present, I think.

taking ail things into account, that I would

DC '

not do it. The poor young man has been
speaking to me himself. He is in great
distress.'

At being required to marry me ? ' inquired
Diana blandly.

Xo, no I — oh no, my dear ! ' cried the
Eector. ' To judge from his manner, and his
words, he would be rejoiced, — most rejoiced.
No, no, what I meant was, that he is deeply
grieved — deeply, and I do believe genuinely
grieved — that your grandfather should have
put such pressure on you.'

My grandfather has put no pressure on
rae,' said Diana hastily. 'He has simply
made me an offer, — or tried to tempt me, if
you like better to put it that way, with a
bribe, — to do a certain thing.'

'Which, if you fail to do, he punishes
you.'

• Well — yes, he punishes me,' she admitted.

But he had a right to punish me if he
chose.'

Do you think he had, child ? ' asked the
Eector gravely. ' Did he owe you no restitution
for his treatment of your mother ? '

Ah, I had forgotten that ! ' she said
quickly. She sat silent for a few moments ;
then, ' Yes, I think he owed me something,'
she said ; ' but he never saw it in that way.
He was a hard man ; he was both hard and
ungenerous ; could I have understood him if
I had not always recognised that ? And he
was selfish too. He had made up his mind
that he would try to bring about this marriage,
let it grieve me as it would.'

And yet you think he loved you, my
dear ! ' And the Eector silently lifted up his
eyebrows.

Yes,' she said, rather sadly ; ' and he did
love me in his way ; only he loved his own
will more. You see, he had set his heart

on this thing, papa ; and no doubt, too, he
thought that he was doing a great thing forme,
— that he was making my fortune for me.'

Then, if he had set his heart on it,' said
the Eector hesitatingly, ' and — and you feel so
tenderly towards him, might it not be advisable,
my dear, not to be in too great a hurry,
but just to give the young man a chance ? '

When he put this question, however,
Diana knitted her brows, and the colour came
with a quick rush to her face, and, ' Xo, it
would not be advisable ; there are some
things that one can't do too hurriedly,' she
exclaimed with rather an excess of heat.
Besides, it is not as if I was hearing of the
thing now for the first time. Grandpa
forced me to think of it months ago. He
spoke about it, you know. I don't know
whether he ever spoke to Cecil, but he did
to me ; and he knew how I felt, and that I
would never do what he wanted if I were left

to myself, and so he devised this way of
tempting me. Oh, it was cruel ! ' cried the
girl with sudden momentary indignation.
Not many men would have been so cruel to
anyone they liked. Though he meant it for
my good too,' she added again excusing, in
an altered tone.

He was an arbitrary man, and he loved
power if any man ever did in this world,' said
the Eector.

And then Diana sighed. 'Yes,' she
assented, ' he loved power, I know. He
could not bear to be crossed. He could not
bear to think that he should be crossed even
after he was dead.'

And then she turned her face away, and
Mr. Fielding sighed and leant back in his seat.

She had said little, and she meant to say
little; but her disappointment was keener than
even her father guessed. ' Ah, how easily he
could have done what would have made me

SO grateful to him ! ' she sat thinking. ' How
easily he could have given me some small
thing just because he cared for me ; not all
that great legacy, but even the tenth part of it.
If he had given me only 5,000/., I should be
thanking him now with all my heart, instead
of feeling bitterly, as I am feeling.' For she
was poor, and she knew that she was feeling
bitterly, even though she might confess it to
no one with her lips.

She would neither confess it to Mrs. Eivers
when she saw her presently, nor to Cecil,
when she was forced after a time to meet her
cousin, and let him speak to her. ' Why need
I see him ? ' she asked impatiently at first,
trying to escape the ordeal, ' when he knows
already the only thing that I can say?' But
yet she was compelled to do it, for, restless
and excited, the poor young fellow could,
naturally, not contain himself, but drove her,
half in pity at last, half because she saw

there was no escape for her, to Hasten to
him.

Diana, what am I to do ? ' he said to herat
the first opportunity she gave him of
seeing her alone. 'I feel as if I could not
bear this and live ! '

But she laughed when he made this
speech, and —

That is pure nonsense,' she replied.
You must bear it. And besides — it is harder
surely for me than for you — and I make no
complaint.'

No ; because you are an angel ! ' he exclaimed
with enthusiasm.

I am much like one, I think ! ' she
ironically returned.

You are Hke one in being too noble and
high-minded to think about yourself and your
own interests,' he went on in the same strain.

And then she silenced him peremptorily.

Cecil, be quiet,' she said. ' What is the

use of this high-flying talk? If grandpa
had left me something freely, do you think I
should not have been glad? And, as he has
left me nothing, do you think I am not sorry ?
But he had a right to do what he pleased
with his own.'

He had no right to leave you a legacy
coupled with such a condition,' said the
young man, flushing, and in a low voice.

I think he ought not to have done it ;
but he had the right,' she gravely replied.

I don't believe he even had the right.
He has acted most cruelly by us both,' poor
Cecil cried. ' Oh, cousin I I know I dare not
speak about — that matter now ; but he gives
us a year, and you won't decide anything yet
will you ? You won't try to make me take
your answer now ? You don't know — no one
can know — what changes a year may make.'

It will make none in me,' she answered
quickly. ' And, as for you, I think you are

making a mistake in even wishing that it
should, — if indeed you really do wish it.'

'Diana!' he interrupted her, almost
gasping ; but she only paused for a moment,
and then, without noticing his ejaculation,
went on quickly :

Oh yes, I know you think you do —
because (as is very natural) we like one
another, and are intimate through being
cousins, and because you have known so few
other girls. But, Cecil, if we were to be
together always, we are so unlike that we
should be troubling and grieving one another
constantly. You know there is something
in me of my grandfather ; there is even
a good deal : I am often hard, as he was ;
I am even tyrannical, too — in my way. It
would not be well for me to Hve with anyone
who would be always submissive to me — as
you are. I know this : I am not merely
saying it. I could not make you happy. I

am not sympathetic enough ; I am too impatient
; I am too — strong.'

She said the last word after a moment's
hesitation, feeing that it was almost cruel to
say it. But perhaps her hesitation was unnecessary,
for it did not seem to pain him.
The fact of her strength was possibly too
familiar to him for her declaration of it to
affect him much.

• I know that I could never be worthy of
you,' he only said, with a sort of simple sadness,
after a little silence. ' Of course I am not so
mad as to suppose I could. I know it is only
the fact of this money that would ever make
you think of me at all.'

Then, if you believe that, how could my
thinking of you be right? ' she asked.

• I don't say that it would be right — altogether
: perhaps it might not be,' poor Cecil
humbly answered. 'I merely meant that it
makes a reason why you should hesitate. I

thought so many women married for other
things than love ? '

And should you like me to marry you,'
she retorted, ' for something else than love ? '

And then perhaps he was ashamed to say
that he could be content to submit even to
that arrangement, for he only looked at her
wistfully, and made no reply.

But after a few moments' silence he began
to plead with her again.

I am only a boy,' he said ; ' of course,
it is little wonder that you should not care
for me. You know how I have been treated ;
low I have learnt nothing ; how I have been
kept like a child, though I have grown to" bea
man in years. But, Diana, I am my own
master now at last, and, if you will only give
me some hope, you don't know what it will
do for me. I will work ; I will educate myself
; I will go to college.'

'I should be heartily glad to think that
you would work,' said Diana. ' But ' — she
paused for a moment ; she was, perhaps, not
far wrong in saying that she was in some
things like her grandfather, for she could be
very merciless sometimes — ' but, though I
have heard now and then of men waiting
for their wives to get educated before they
married them, I don't think I ever heard
before of that process being reversed.'

And then poor Cecil's face crimsoned
with shame, and he even attempted no reply :
and in a moment the girl repented, and blushed
with shame too.

Forgive me, Cecil,' she said quickly. ' I
am cruel to you.'

Yes, I think you are cruel,' he answered
gently. ' And I, for my part, I suppose, ama
fool.'

And then, after hungering in silence for

another moment or two, she turned away ;
and, though lie looked after her wistfully, he
made no effort to detain her. ' Oh, father,'
she said to the Eector, meeting him five
minutes afterwards, ' I shall be glad to be
home ! '

^j^<<^<^/<^^<<vyvv<<<.rrrn77TT7Tr? TT?7-<Trrr-i^^-t :<<x^- : TTrr< ^^ Z2S; l

;^ ^ tjj -h' ¥ 'I- ''I'V-1- '^ '^' -f-t"^- '^ '^r 'i- ';■-t- ^i' '" -r-I- '1- 'h '!"" Wei' 'i- 'i' ':' ':"^

Il

CHAPTER Xn

T had been settled that they were to
return to Hettlestowe almost at
once. The funeral had taken place
on a Thursday ; on Friday the will was read.
And I ought to get home tomorrow.' the
Eector said dubiously ; ' only I suppose you
would hardly be ready so soon, Diana ? Well,
I arranged that, if I did not return, there
should be no service on Sunday morning, and
Forsythe promised to come over and preach
in the afternoon. So, my dear, if you would
prefer it, I can send a telegram, and we will
delay our journey for a few days.'

VOL. II. S

I think we had better do that,' she
answered.

She had told him that she should be glad
to be at home again, and yet (as she almost
knew) when she made this assertion she
had only uttered one half of the truth. She
should be glad to be away from Cecil, — that
was what she meant ; not glad to leave Wilmoteses,
nor to turn her back on all the life
that had absorbed her for the last six months

for it had absorbed her, and she was quite

aware of that fact. She had led an existence
in this place that had blotted her old life half
out of her memory. She had been a new
creature here, and had grown to her new
surroundings, till the former surroundings
that she was about to return to presented
a picture to her mind that seemed dull and
colourless.

'I must be a poor creature to have taken
to a luxurious life so kindly,' she thought

to herself in some dismay. ' But, oh ! ' she
reflected next moment, ' I have been so happy
here ! I have seen so much, and enjoyed so
much. It is not the luxury of the life only
that I have cared for — neither only nor even
chiefly, I think. It is that I have loved the
place, — that I have loved poor grandpa, —
that so many people have been kind to me.'
And she went wandering during these last days
about the beautiful old house, thinking strangely
of how, instead of leaving it, she might stay
and be mistress of it if she pleased, till she
almost rebelled against her own perversity.
Why should I not stay ? ' she even got the
length of asking herself once or twice. ' It
would make papa and Susan so happy, — and
Cecil ; and it is only what tens of thousands
of women would do.' And yet she knew,
deep in her heart, that she could not do it.

She was not happy, as may easily be supposed,
during these last days that she passed

at Wilmotes. She missed the old man who was
dead, with his fiery temper and his uncertain
kindness. She was sick and sad with anxious
thoughts. Some of the people with whom
she had become tolerably intimate, such as
the Westbrooks, came to say good-bye to
her, and she went herself after some days to
make her farewells at the cottages where she
had been accustomed to visit in the village.
And I suppose I ought to go to Mrs. Brydon's
too,' she thought sometimes to herself. And
yet, anxious as she had formerly been to prosecute
her acquaintance with Mrs. Brydon,
she put off this visit now from day to day.

'My sister would come to you if you
liked ; but, if you would go to her, it would
be kinder,' Dr. Brydon said one afternoon
when, meeting him by chance, she spoke to
him (perhaps from the lack of something else
to say) of her intended call.

Oh, I will go, of course ! ' she answered

when he said this. ' I have got my black
gown, you see, and that makes me free of the
village, at any rate. I should not get Aunt
Elvers to let me go anywhere else, but I
made a stand for the village, and she yielded, —
though it has shocked her, I am afraid. For,
you see, we haven t been to church yet.'

I didn't know that Mrs. Elvers was such
a stickler for church-going,' he replied.

Oh, she isn't on ordinary occasions —
quite the reverse. But she thinks people
ought always to go when someone has died.
Poor grandpa wouldn't care much, I am
afraid, — would he ? However, I am sorry to
miss going, for my part. I shan't be able to
go, you see, at all.'

Why ? Are you leaving so soon ? ' he
asked.

We are going on Friday,' she said.

It was Tuesday now. She had seen
nothing of him since the day of her grandfather's

funeral, as she remembered (not for
the first time) a little resentfully.

He put himself at her side, and walked a
few yards with her.

'I only heard yesterday that you were
going away with your father,' he said
abruptly, after a moment or two's silence.
Well, I suppose it is the best arrangement.'


It is the natural arrangement, is it not ? '
she retorted quickly.

'I don't know. Is it? The case is
peculiar,' he dryly replied.

And then all at once the girl blazed up.

The case is not peculiar. I am going
home,' she said, with the conscious colour
hot in her cheeks. 'I only came at all
because grandpa asked me.'

'Exactly. But I thought you might be
going to stay now — because, as I understand,
he asked that too. You have always paid

great regard to his wishes,' replied Dr. Brydon
bluntly.

There was something in his tone that
roused the girl's temper to fever heat. She
felt almost furiously angry with him.

Do you think you need sneer at me
because of that ? ' she exclaimed.

I have no right to sneer, certainly,' he
gravely answered. ' I beg your pardon if I
seemed to do it. That you and I should
hold the same opinion about Sir Henry and
his acts and wishes is a great deal more
certainly than I could in reason expect.'

And then she made no reply, and they
both walked on in silence for some dozen
paces further, after which he abruptly
stopped and put out his hand.

Well, I may not see you again,' he said ;
^ so ' — and he suddenly smiled kindly enough
' let us part in peace.'

Do you suppose that I meant to do anything

else ? ' she asked quickly. But her tone
was still rather belligerent.

No, I don't suppose it,' he said. ' We
have been very good friends — at times.'

She was an impulsive woman, and a
tremor came suddenly to her lips.

You have been good to me many a time,
she answered. ' If this is really to be goodbye,
let me say that I remember that.'

You have very little goodness of mine to
remember he returned. ' None that you
need remember. None that I even wish you to
remember. — But I am keeping you standing
here,' he abruptly said.

And then he held out his hand again, and
she gave him hers, and each bade the other
good-bye ' ; and Diana went on her way
home, dully wondering if the blood had gone
from her lips, as she had felt it go from her
heart, when she spoke that last word, and
ended —

What have I ended ? ' she suddenly demanded
fiercely of herself. ' I am a fool !
There has been nothing to end ! ' she passionately
exclaimed.

It was on the last morning before her
departure that she made her promised call
on Mrs. Brydon. She went and sat with her
for a long time. Dr. Brydon was out, as
she had known he would be. They sat together
and talked with much kindness, each
asking questions of the other, and approaching
intimacy at many points, and yet falling short
of becoming actually intimate, so that when at
last the visit ended Diana rose up and went
away, with the question unasked that she had
half hoped and half feared the other would
put to her, and with the answer that she
had half hoped and half feared that she would
have to give, unuttered.

You will come back again, will you not ?
You will surely come back some time — to see

your aunt ? ' was the nearest approach Mrs.
Brydon ventured to make to the subject that
the other's mind was full of; and Diana
merely answered, almost perversely : ' Oh
yes, it is possible ; but I don't think I am
likely to come again for a good while yet.'

And then, when she had let the opportunity
slip, and had left the house, and was
walking back to Wilmotes, there came a few
moments when she felt as if she could have
cut herself with knives, because her lips had
refused to speak what surely — she cried
piteously — they might have spoken.

Only, it doesn't matter. How can it
matter ? ' she said bitterly after a little while.

Poor Cecil had exhausted her patience by
this time with his entreaties that she would
stay for this coming year at Wilmotes. Even
Mrs. Elvers, urged probably by her son, had
asked her to stay.

But why should I ? What would be the

good of it ? ' Diana in vain demanded. ' It
would only put me in a curious position ; and
my position is curious enough already, I think.'

But if we were to be together for the
next year it might make such a difference ;
you might be able to change your mind,'
Cecil awkwardly pleaded.

'If there is any chance of my changing
my mind, I can change it at Hettlestowe
just as well as here,' Diana retorted. ' Only
I shall not change it, Cecil ; so don't have any
hope of that.'

I will never give up hope of it till the
time has expired,' exclaimed the lad fervently.

And then Diana in weary resignation
folded her hands. ' AVell, it is a mercy, at
least, that the time will expire,' she thought.

And yet even this reflection did not seem
to give her all the consolation that it ought.
In fact, they were sad and dreary days to
her, and she went throu<]^h them with her

heart heavy and aching. It seemed to her
as if what had been best in her life was
ending now — that the glory and sweetness of
it had passed away.

It is singular to me, my dear,' the good
Eector said once, ' to find how strong an
affection your poor grandfather must have
succeeded in arousing in you. I never saw
you so low before, Diana. I am afraid you
are feeling his death very deeply.'

And then at this speech the girl reddened
with sudden embarrassment and shame —
and —

Oh yes, I am feeling his death, — but I think
I am out of spirits about other things as well,'
she hurriedly replied. ' I am troubled about
various things, you see — about Cecil, and this
vexing will, — and I am sorry to be going away.
It is very foolish to be sorry about that, isn't
it? But yet one gets fond of places, you
know.'

My dear,' said the Eector, • it is very
natural.'

And then, I have been disappointed
she added abruptly. ' It seems horrible and
mercenary to say so. I don't want ever to say
it again. But what grandpa has done has
hurt me like a blow. Ah, if he had but been
kind and — just ! I had thought he would be.'

I am sorry you ever thought it. I am
very sorry,' said the Eector tenderly. ' But,
my darling, we are at least no poorer than we
were before. You must just return to the old
life. And it is not a bad life, thank God.
We have lived it together for a long time
very happily, Di.'

Oh yes,' she said, ' oh yes.'

And then she began suddenly to talk
about Hettlestowe, asking questions that she
had forgotten to ask before — about her stepmother,
and the children, and the parish —
and the Eector, taking her cue, launched out

delightedly about these various matters, and
enjoyed himself. And presently he sat down
and wrote to his wife : ' Diana has been a good
deal shaken by all lie has gone through, and
lias — very naturally — not entirely recovered
her spirits yet, but she will be quite herself as
soon as we have got her in the midst of us
ao"ain at home. She only wants you and the
children to cheer her, and make her forget
all this trying time.'

And that is true, my dear, is it not ? ' he
said cheerily to Diana, handing her the letter
when it was finished.

They left early in the morning when at
last they started on their journey. The
month was still October, and the trees round
Wilmotes were all blazing with gold and
crimson. ' I am glad to have seen them in
their glory,' the girl thought as with lingering
regret she walked beneath them on the
last afternoon before she went away.

She had Cecil on this occasion for her
companion, — not by her own choice, but of
necessity, for the poor young fellow, wandering
about the place like an uneasy spirit,
waylaid her steps during these last days whenever
it was possible, and (as she thought,
but mercifully did not say) made life a burden
to her.

He walked by her side now, and when she
said the autumn was so beautiful he only
groaned, and when she said the place was
looking lovely he merely pushed the hair
wearily from his forehead.

I hate it all,' he ejaculated presently in a
gloomy voice. ' I should like to sink it all in
the bottom of the sea ! '

And what good would that do you ? '
asked Diana mildly.

T should escape then from the sight of it
for the rest of my life,' he said bitterly.

And in six months' time you would repent

what you had done m sackcloth and
ashes,' she replied. ' Oh, Cecil, I am older
than you, and you may take my word for
that ! '

She broke into a little laugh as she made
this rejoinder. It is so easy to be lighthearted
over our neighbours' troubles. She
had her own troubles, which were — as she
believed — to colour all her future life ; but
Cecil, she said carelessly to herself, was
only a boy, who in a few months would
forget.

And so she went on presently to give him
much good advice, and to impress upon him
how heated feeling is evanescent, and how he
had an important part assigned him in life, the
filling of which honourably would bring him
happiness and content. She preached an
admirable little sermon to him on these heads
as he walked gloomily by her side, savagely
switching off twigs from the blackberry bushes

and leaves from the ferns with his cane ; but
when she came to the end of it

You may go on like this till doomsday,'
he impatiently broke out ; ' but do you think
your telling me I ought to be happy will make
me happy ? I want what I can't get — that
is the long and the short of it ; and, as for
trying to make me believe that I don't want
it, or that some other sort of thing will serve
my turn as well, I can only say that if that
is all you have got to tell me you may as well
hold your tongue. — Though I "beg your pardon
for speaking so, Diana,' cried the poor lad next
moment with quick contrition, ' for you mean
to be kind, I know, — only you don't seem to
understand.'

And then something in this speech brought
the colour to Diana's face, and, instead of resenting
it, she, curiously, made no reply.

Cecil went with them to the station in the
morning, and saw them off. Their drive was a

VOL. II. T

grave and silent one, for Diana sat almost without
speaking, absorbed in her own thoughts,
and Cecil's heart was too full of his trouble for
him to care to talk of ordinary things.

The Eector, looking at them, sighed to
himself.

Human nature is a perverse thing,' he
reflected sorrowfully as they whirled along.
How smoothly everything might be going
now — how content we might all be — if — if only
Diana would not so determinedly make up her
mind ! But she has always been very determined,'
mused the good man, ' very masterful
very sure of being in the right — poor dear !
ever since she was a child.'

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

Printed BY

SPOTTISWOODB AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

Each Work can be had separately, price 6^., of all
booksellers in Tow::^ or Country.

'Queene's WHIM,' by ROSA NOUCHETTE CAREY, and 'THE
ROGUE,' by W. E. NORRIS, are just added to the Series,

By RHODA Boughton,

Cometh up as a Flower.
Good-bye, Sweetheart !
Joan. I Nancy.

Not Wisely, but too Well.
Ked as a Rose is She.
Second Thoughts.
Belinda.
Doctor Cupid.'

By Mrs. ALEXANDER.

The Wooing o't.
Her Dearest Foe.
Look before you Leap.
The Admiral's Ward.
Time Executor.
The Frees.
Which Shall it Be?

By ROSA N, CAREY.

Nellie's Memories.
Barbara Heathcote's Trial.
Not Like Other Girls.
Only the Governess.
Queene's Whim.
Robert Ord's Atonement.
Uncle Max.
Wee Wife.
Wooed and Married.

By ANTHONY TROLLOPE.

The Three Clerks.

By W, E. NORRIS.

Thirty Hall.
A Bachelor's Blunder.
Major and Minor.
The Rogue.

By Mrs. ANNIE Edwards.
Leah : a Woman of Fashion.
Ought We to Visit Her ?
A Ball-room Repentance.
A Girton Girl.

By CHARLES READE.

A Perilous Secret.

By Hon. LEWIS WINGFIELD.

Lady Grizzly

MARCUS CLARKE.

For the Term of his Natural
Life.

By HAWLEY SMART.

Breeze Langton.

By HECTOR Malt.

No Relations. (With illustrations.)

By Mrs. AUGUSTUS CRAVEN.

A Sister's Story. [reprinting .

RICHARD BENTLEY & SON. New Darlington Street, London,

publtfibers in Ordinary to 1bcc /nbaiestg the Queen.

[P.T-O.

(Continued from average.)

Each Work can be had separately, price 6s., op all
Booksellers in Town or Country.

By J. SHERIDAN LE Fan.

Uncle Silas.

In a Glass Darkly.

The House by the Churchyard.

By MARIE CORELLI.

A Romance of Two Worlds.
Vendetta. | Thalia.

By FLORENCE MONTGOMERY.

Misunderstood.
Seaport.
Thrown Together.

By E. WERNER.

No Surrender.

Success: and How he Won it

Under a Charm.

Fickle Fortune.

By Mrs. Motley.

Olive Varcoe.

By FRANCES M. Heard.

Near Neighbours.

ANONYMOUS.

The Last of the Cavaliers.

By Lady G. FULLERTON.

Ellen Middleton.

Ladybird.

Too Strange not to be True.

By JESSIE FOTHERGILL.

The ' First Violin.'
Borderland. | Healey.
Kith and Kin.
Probation.
The Wellfields.

By HELEN Matters.

Com in' thro' the Rye.
Sam's Sweetheart.

By Mrs. PARR.

Adam and Eve.
Dorothy Fox.

By Baroness TAUTPHCEUS.

The Initials. | Quits

By Mrs. Liddell.

George Leith of Fen Court.
Susan Drummond.
Berne Boyle.

By JANE AUSTEN.

{Tlie only Complete Edition, hc-
side the Stevenson Edition, upon
hand-made paper')

Emma.

Lady Susan, and The Watson.

Mansfield Pai-k.

Northanger Abbey, and Persuasion.


Pride and Prejudice.

Sense and Sensibility.

RICHARD BENTLEY & SOX, New Burlington Street, London,

Publishers in ordinary to aber /Dbajest^ the duce.

'^"^-mm^

m*i*^

/P^

'C^^^

td

LI E) RAR.Y

OF THE

U N IVLR.5ITY

or ILLINOIS

V.3

VOL. III.

LONDON

BY

Georgians M. CEAIK

(MRS A. W. may)

AUTHOR OF 'A Daughter OF THE PEOPLE' 'GODFREY HELST0>'2 ' iTC.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. m.

LONDON

Richard BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON STREET

^ubUsb«rs in #ri>inarjr to ^cr P^ajestg tee Qn«n



All rights reserved

DIANA

CHAPTEE I

CAN'T think what has come over
the children ! ' said Diana.

She was standing once more
in the familiar sitting-room at home, with
Mrs. Fielding at her side ; but Milly and Kate
and Dick, instead of pressing round her in their
former fashion, and filing the air with their
vociferous greetings, had taken up their position
some three yards off, and from that safe
distance were regarding their regained sister
in watchful and solemn silence.

VOL. III. ;b

I can't think what has come over them ! '
she said.

Oh, they are only shy, the foolish
monkeys,' explained Mrs. Fielding excusing.
They have been talking of nothing but your
coming for the last week, so you must not
think that they are not glad to see you.'

Dick,' cried Diana straightway, ' are you
glad to see me ? '

Upon which — ' H-m-m,' growled Dick
inarticulately.

I don't know what " H-m-m " means.
Good gracious, children, come here ! What's
the matter with you ? ' exclaimed Diana.

And then at last they came, sheepishly,
with a foolish smirk on the girls' faces.

You look so odd,' said Milly in self-excuse,
venturing at last to speak.

Look so odd ! ' repeated Diana, not quite
appreciating this address

Yes,' corroborated Kate, ' not a bit as

you used to do. You've got so awfully
fine.'

Oh, you little geese ! ' cried' the elder
sister, and she laughed ; but she blushed too
as the children stared at her. ' I'm not a bit
fine, — am I, Susan ? '

But Mrs. Fielding shook her head and
smiled.

My dear,' she said, ' you have got such
beautifully made clothes. You never had
such clothes here, so no wonder the children
notice them. And — I can't see it well till you
take your hat off, but your hair is done quite
differently ; and what a lovely hat it is too !
I never saw one like it. Is this the latest
fashion, Di ? '

Diana whipped it off her head in a
moment, and clapped it upon ]willy's ; and
as a sudden burst of laughter followed this
manoeuvre, she laughed too, and all at once
took Milly by the shoulders and shook her.

B 2

There, now you are as fine as I was,' she
said. ' Oh, you little silly, cold-hearted
creatures, only to think about my clothes, and
not a bit about me ! Now then, are you
ashamed of yourselves ? '

No ! ' said Dick firmly ; but his blue
eyes began to twinkle a little,

I like your hair best the old way*
though,' said Kate.

Oh ! ' cried Milly, with rising enthusiasm,
' / don't.'

And then they came voluntarily nearer,
and began to paw her. For five minutes she
had seemed like a stranger to them ; but now
they were beginning to recognise familiar
traits. Milly especially, who had been
shaken, and who still triumphantly boi'e
Diana's fashionable hat upon her head, was
rapidly coming to experience a sense of recovered
ease and satisfaction.

It's no wonder you're changed when

/ thought you were never coming back
at all r exclaimed Dick.

Ah, I've disappointed you there I ' retorted
Diana.

And then Dick grinned. He was still
staring at his sister ; in fact, they were all
three still staring.

You look at me,' she said, 'as if I had
come out of the woods.'

Oh no ; but you're so funny ! ' cried
Kate.

/ think you've got so horribly stuck
up,' said Dick sturdily.

Oh, Dick, it's only because she's dressed
so beautifully \' ejaculated Milly with a sigh
of admiration.

Children,' said their mother, ' you are
very foolish. Sister is not really changed at

all ; and we are all so glad to have her back
again.' And then she kissed her stepdaughter
; and ' Oh, Di, I have wanted you
sorely many a time ! ' she exclaimed with
tenderness. ' The house has never seemed
itself since you went away.'

Has it not ? ' Diana asked, and smiled
into the kind face that was looking up to
her ; and yet even as she smiled she was
dissatisfied with herself, because she knew
that the other's content was greater than her
own.

I am very glad to be home again — veri
glad,' she said.

But though this was the truth, still it
was not the whole truth, she painfully felt.

I must make something to do soon ;
when one is busy one has not time to fret,'
she said to herself on the morning after her
return ; so she occupied herself first in unpacking
her boxes and arranging her room,

and then she wrote to Mrs. Elvers, and then
she set out for the village.

'I am going down to see a few people,
papa,' she said to the Eector.

Well, my dear, they will all be very glad
to see yoit^' he replied. ' But, if you are
tired, I wouldn't have you trouble yourself
about this to-day.'

Oh, but I am not tired ! ' she exclaimed.
And she went away with a laugh (which
sounded sweet and familiar in her father's
ears as she closed his door), and walked to
the village, and made her calls there.

They were only calls upon some of the
old people whom she had been accustomed to
visit, but she found that both the sic^ht of
them, and the necessity she imposed on
herself of listening to the details they gave
her of their history while she had been away,
were salutary, and drove other thoughts out
of her mind.

I shall fall back again into the old
groove very soon,' she said to herself with
satisfaction (though perhaps, too, with a
subtle touch of regret) as she returned home.
Even already all that other time is beginning
to seem like a dream. If it were not for
these clothes, that excite the children, I
should hardly believe that 1 had been away.
I will buy some black stuff, and make myself
a plain gown — and, I think I had better do my
hair again in the old way.'

But when she got home and looked at
herself in the glass, somehow she could not
make up her mind to return to the old
dressing of her hair It had been dressed as
she wore it now one day by the Westbrook
girls. ' And they were very kind to me, and
liked it,' she thought. And so she hesitated
for a little while, and then ended by leaving
her chevelure unchanged.

And indeed I think it would be a pity

to alter it,' Susan said ; ' for it is very pretty,
and it is very becoming too, though, as the
children say, it does make you look rather
fashionable. But I don't know why you
shouldn't look fashionable, when you can doit
so easily, and when this is a pretty fashion
too.'

And indeed she looks beautiful ! ' the
kind soul had already declared with enthusiasm
to her husband. ' Of course she
was always handsome, but there is no denying
that dressing does a great deal for a
woman ; and I dare say you haven't noticed
it, my dear, but, besides the change in her
hair, her gowns are made so well. She says
Mrs. Elvers gave her all her mourning ; and
she has other things as well — beautiful things —
that were presents from poor Sir Henry. Oh
dear, if he had but left her a little legacy as
well ! I get troubled sometimes about how
she will ever bear our quiet poor life here ! '

But the Eector only smiled benignly when
his wife made this speech ; and ' She will not
only bear it, but enjoy it, Susan,' he answered
confidently. ' You may take my word for
that. She was not so happy at Wilmotes.
From all she tells me, she must have spent
some pretty weary hours there ; and, if she
was fond of her grandfather (as, strange
though it seems, she really appears to have
been), she was not very fond of anybody else.
So don't you worry yourself about her, my
dear. The child is thoroughly glad to be
home.'

And then with her lips Mrs. Fielding said
no more, but in her heart she thought: 'Papa
is so content that he doesn't quite notice, I
think. I don't believe she is quite glad. It
has cost her more to come back, I am afraid,
than he thinks, and I must be very kind to
her. We must all do what we can. Only
I'm a dull companion — with the children, and

the house, and so many things to see to,'
said the gentle little woman humbly to
herself.

Did Diana indeed find the old life dull ?
She would hardly have confessed it to herself,
but in reality she missed Wilmotes : the love
of the place had taken a deep root in her
heart, and she could not forget it, nor keep
her thoughts away from it. If she could but
marry Cecil, and make so many people
happy I — that was what she kept continually
thinking. For would not everybody be content
if she consented to marry him — himself,
and her father, and Susan, and even her Aunt
Elvers ? ' And then we should have no more
trouble about money,' she thought, ' for all
the rest of our lives.' Must she not be
perverse and selfish, the poor girl constantly
questioned with herself, since she refused todo
this thing?

Perhaps she might have done it if the

time that had been given her for deliberation
were not so short, she began presently to
think. She had been thankful for its shortness
at first, and had assured Cecil that no
waiting could change her determination
respecting him ; but now, after her return
home, she began almost to wish that half a
dozen years for consideration had been given
her instead of only one, for had it been so,
Perhaps,' she would say to herself, ' I might
before the end of them have been able to
marry him, even though I did not care for
him (and I could never care for him.'
But in a single twelvemonth how could she
bring herself to do this ?

It was probably natural that, during these
unsettled and dissatisfied days, Diana should
allow her step-mother a clearer vision than
she permitted to her father of the absence
and preoccupation of her mind. Undoubtedly,
at any rate, in Susan's presence she made

fewer efforts than when she was with the
Eector to appear unchanged. She even
excused herself to Mrs. Fielding at times for
her loss of light-heartedness, and talked so
much to her about her grandfather and Cecil,
that the kind soul (unknown to Diana) began,
as time went on, to take quite a romantic
interest in that young man, and to wish him
success in his wooing with all her heart.

He does seem to deserve that something
nice should happen to him — something he
would really care for, poor fellow ! ' she
ventured once almost tenderly to say.

'Well, and something nice has happened
to him,' Diana instantly responded. ' You
needn't pity him now, Susan. He is all right ! '

Only he hardly thinks so himself, I
suppose,' replied Mrs. Fielding hesitatingly.

He is a simpleton then,' said Diana, ' or
he would think it. At least. I mean,' she
added with a touch of remorse next moment,

it is a terrible pity that he doesn't. But weare
all simpletons, it seems to me ; and we act
in the stupidest, criss-cross way. I am sure
now,' and she looked suddenly into the other's
face, ' that you think I might have promised
to marry him, if I had had any common sense? '

Oh no, my dear ! No, no,' said Mrs.
Fielding soothingly ; but as she began
nervously to pat Diana's knee the colour
came with something of a guilty look into
her cheeks. ' I am sure you would have
done it if you could. We can't marry people
just to please them, — or to please anybody ;
and if you really felt, as I am sure you
did '

I felt that I couldn't bear it,' said Diana
quickly. ' It seemed to me that if I married
him it would make me wicked. But oh,
Susan,' she cried Wearily, ' I am sorry not todo
it ! When I think of all I should have
been able to do for you here, and how I

'But you mustn't feel like that. Oh, Di,
don't,' cried sirs. Fielding with the tears in
her eyes. ' I don't know what papa would
think if he were to hear you.'

Then you mustn't tell papa,' replied
Diana promptly. ' You see, women bother
one another. That seems natural ; but they
needn't bother men. It's delightful to see the
dear old dad. He goes about the house
smiling like a cherub.'

'He is so glad to have you back, dear
child.'

Yes, bless him, I suppose he is,' — with a
half sigh. ' So don't say anything to him to
make him sad. After all, if I married Cecil
he wouldn't see much more of me.'

No, indeed, Di.'

'And so, perhaps, it may really be
happiest for him to keep me here.'

Oh yes ; happiest for him, and for us all ;
there is no doubt of that ; only of course you
will marry some day.'

I don't see that at all, Susan,' — with considerable
asperity. ' Who do you think I can
marry ? People don't do those things —
especially in country places — just when they
please. No, I feel that I have had my chance,
and now I am going to settle down. I never
in my life was very sure, you know, that a
husband would suit me.'

'The right husband would suit you, if
he came, Di.'

Well, at any rate he isn't in the least
likely to come.' And with this remark Diana
ended the conversation. ^

No ; the chances certainly were now, she
thought, that she should never marry : and
having a considerable amount of good sense,
in spite of her hot temper, she told herself
that after a time she should get accustomed

to this view of her lot, and not be ill content
with it. ' For I do think it may suit me better
than the other,' she reflected. ' Certainly it
will suit me better, and it will be ever so
much better for me, than to be the wife of
any one like Cecil. Oh dear, what a bad
wife I should be to Cecil ! I should be
more like a scourge than a wife.'

And in this view of the matter she was
probably perfectly correct.

When a week or two had passed after her
return home, Diana had begun with some
appearance of energy to take up her former
parish work, though it must be allowed that
she hardly took it up con adores but rather
as a labour which it needed some effort
to perform. She visited again in the
cottages ; she took up her position afresh as
village censor and referee, and evil-doers (who
had had an easy time of it in her absence,

VOL. III. C

under the mild sway of the Eector) began
once more to tremble as she passed by.

I have been telling Tommy ' (or Bill, or
Jack, as the case might be) ' that he'll have
to turn over a new leaf, and behave himself,
now you Ve come back, Miss Di,' the village
women would say to her with beaming faces,
and a keen appreciation of the results they
expected to follow from her reappearance :
and Diana perhaps sometimes winced a little
as she received these compliments (though
she kept the givers of them from perceiving
that she winced), and was conscious that they
jarred upon her.

They speak of me as if I were a
policeman,' she used to reflect, with a curious
reluctance and surprise. 'Am I really so
masterful as they think I am ? I suppose I
may have grown so — a little — because papa is
so much the other way ; and in a place like
this there really does need to be somebody

who will pull the people up now and then.
But it is a sort of work that makes one unamiable,
I suppose.' And she would walk
along the muddy roads in the dull November
days wondering sometimes, involuntarily,
whether her lot would be a different one now
if her own character had been different, till she
would come suddenly to herself again with a
flush and an angry frown. ' As if it mattered ! '
she would think scornfully, and would quicken
her steps, and try to put all thoughts out of
her mind except the serene thoughts, undisturbed
by any doubts about her mission, that
had held possession of her before she ever
went to Wilmotes.

But still the days did not pass more
happily with her.

Di, you're not half so nice as you used to
be,' little Kate remarked seriously and perplexedly
to her one day. ' You used to bec

2

awfully nice, but now you're always thinking
of something else.'

Whereupon poor Diana coloured to the
roots of her hair. But with her lips she
only laughed, and (turning her back rapidly
to the Hight), ' What a little goose you are
to make such a speech ! ' she answered.
As if people could help thinking of things.
Don't you know that since I have been
away I have had a great many things,
and some of them very sad things, to think
of? '

And then Kate reverently lowered her
eyes ; for of course she knew about Sir
Henry Rivers's death ; and she felt, poor little
soul, as if she had made a very naughty
speech.

But Diana, with her conscience pricking
her a little, put her hand on Kate's shoulder,
and —

I am afraid I have been rather stupid

since I came home,' she said ; ' but you
mustn't mind it ; just wait a little bit,
and — I ^vill try to be brighter soon. I
suppose now you want me to begin to tell
you stories again ? '

Oh, if you would ! ' cried Kate joyfully.
And to play games with us, — and run races.
But perhaps,' with a little fall in her voice,
you wouldn't think it right to run races —
in your black frocks ? '

Diana, however, laughed at this, and said
she would not make the black frocks a
difficulty ; the only difficulty was that lie
was out of practice, and that she was afraid
her joints were stiff; 'for — just think! — I
have never ruin a single race all the time I have
been away,' she said.

'Oh, dear!' ejaculated Kate, as if she
thought that a life without that entertainment
must have been blank indeed. ' Then
I dare say you have got stiff.'

I am afraid I have : but we must try,'
replied Diana with cheerfulness.

And she did accordingly try that same
afternoon ; and on the whole acquitted herself
very creditably.

Perhaps during these sometimes rather
weary weeks she was happier alone with her
father in the study than she ever was either
with Susan or the children. The Eector
made so few demands upon her ; he was so
happy only to have her in his sight ; so
cheered by her presence ; so little disposed
to complain of her want of gaiety, that as the
days passed she loved to spend more and
more of her time with him. Indeed, so far
was he from finding fault with the new
quality of repose he found in her, that it
gave him an unquestionable satisfaction. In
spite of all his former love for her, he had
secretly in those past days found her a little
fatiguing ; her excessive energy had rebuked

his inertness ; her abounding force and vitality
had almost distressed him ; but now, subdued
a little as she was — less dominant, less active,
more harmonious — her companionship came
to be a pleasure of which he never tired.

She has toned down, and gained a better
style,' the good man complacently thought.
• Poor child ! we were none of us very competent
to correct her faults ; but I see that
these six months' intercourse with — with a
more polished society have improved her —
have certainly improved her, and given hera
repose of manner that I always used to
think she was wanting in of old. I find hera
very delightful companion now — a very
delightful companion indeed,' he would say
gratefully to himself. And indeed these became
pleasant days to ^. Fielding, and it
seemed to him, in looking back upon them
afterwards, that his cup of happiness while
the lasted had been full.

He was never tired of talking to her. He
was a great student of books, and he talked
to her with delight of what he read. To
some extent it had always been his habit todo
this ; but of old Diana's superabundant
activity had been an impediment to his
comfort when he discoursed to her of these
matters, and had often confused him, and
caused him to lose the thread of his discourse.
But now she would sit quietly with
him by the hour together, and let him talk
to her, and instruct her to his heart's content.

It was an immense pleasure to him, for
he had a natural gift for instructing, and
during Diana's absence his talent had lain
entirely dormant. ' Poor Susan has no time
for these things,' he had been accustomed to
say gently to himself, with perhaps a half
sigh of regret ; ' and, I don't know how it is,
but the children seem all of them to care
wonderfully little for any sort of study. I

have always thought, however, that Di
might have become a student if she had only
been less oppressed by physical restlessness.
She has a good understanding, and some
literary taste. Yes — I certainly think she has
some literary taste.'

Only hitherto her restlessness and excess
of practical activity had certainly prevented
her devotion to books from becoming; crreat :
and it was therefore with an inward rejoicing
such as filled his heart with almost a feeling
of triumph, that the gentle Rector in these
days found that at last his favourite daughter
was content to sit for hours together with
him in his quiet study, and listen — almost for
hours together also — to his instructive, if not
exciting, talk.

My dear, you mustn't let me tire you.
You mustn't give up your good old habit
of taking abundant exercise,' he would indeed
force himself to say sometimes to her.

making some such faint effort, in deference to
his conscience, to drive her from him ; but
if she answered, as she often did answer,
Oh, I take plenty of exercise, and you
never tire me, father,' he was only too
happy to rest satisfied with that pleasant
assurance.

'I think she is wonderfully improved,
Susan. Does it not seem to you that she is
improved ? ' he would happily ask his wife.
She has grown a Httle older and graver, no
doubt ; but she has thrown off so much of her
old — ahem ! — rather exhausting activity that
I find her a delightful companion now— so intelligent,
so sympathetic. My dear, I am immensely
pleased with her.'

And when he spoke in this way, Susan,
like a tender wife, had not the heart to disturb
his content ; and yet she on her part was
perplexed and not satisfied. ' I actually half
suspect,' she had begun to say to herself,

that in spite of what she imagines, she
really is in love with that young man.' And,
haunted by this suspicion, she anxiously
watched her step-daughter, and built up a
little edifice of theories in her mind which
would have brought down the lightnings of
Diana's wrath upon her, if Diana had only
known of it.

And so, in quiet monotony, the winter
passed over the head of the girl who, until
lately, had been so free from ennui or care,
but who was often grave now, and dissatisfied,
and at enmity with herself, and weary (though
she tried to hide it) of the long eventless
days.

It is a good thing to have you with us
again, my daring. Thank God you are with
us,' her father said to her with solemn and
happy gratitude, on the last night of the old
year ; and she smiled and answered, ' Yes ; '
but though she smiled she knew that her

DIANA

heart was not glad like his, and she came
away from him abashed and humiliated because
of the truth (which, to her grief, she
knew so well) that his love could not make
her content.

CHAPTER II

was not until April that any break
came in the eventless routine of
Diana's life. Early in this month, however,
there arrived a note from Cecil.

Communication with Wihnotes had not
entirely ceased for her with her departure from
the place, but such very slight correspondence
as she had kept up had been kept up only
with Mrs. Elvers, and Mrs. Elvers was not a
woman who possessed much gift for letter-writing.
Her epistles had only briefly told
Diana that they were both well — that ' of
course ' Cecil was not very cheerful — that he

was still at home (and doing nothing, Diana
inferred) ; and then the rest of her news
referred mostly to the weather ; and Diana
would close these brief documents when she
had read them with a weary sense of yearning
at her heart.

But at last there came this letter from
Cecil, and the colour rushed into her face,
when — having hastily opened and read it —
her father, to whom it Alas addressed, with
something of a troubled and guilty look in his
eyes, handed it to her, and she glanced through
its brief contents.

I am going to avail myself,' was all the
lad had said, in very boyish handwriting, ' of
your kind permission to come to Hettlestowe.
Unless you should tell me that it will be inconvenient
to you, I mean to come over on
the fifteenth. Please give my very kindest
remembrances to my cousin. I do not like to
write to her myself, but tell her that I hope she

will not be vexed with me, nor think I oii^-^it
to stop away. I have stopped away for six
months, and they have seemed a very longtime
to me.'

Papa ! ' said Diana sternly when she had
read this document.

My dear .^ ' responded the Eector, shaking
in his shoes.

What does he mean by saying that he
has your permission to come here .^ '

She was standing in front of Mr. Fielding
erect and irate, — so like once more to the
daughter before whom he had been wont
pretty frequently to tremble, that he caught
his breath as he prepared to answer her, and
nervously shifted his footing.

Well — I — I hardly know,' he murmured
deprecatingly, after these preliminaries. ' I
should not say that I had — ever — given him
anything that could justly be called permission,
my dear, — but he did make some

reference to coming. I allow, — and I — perhaps
1 did not put my veto on it. It seemed to me
that — well, that I had scarcely the right todo
that. God knows ' — and with sudden pain
the Eector's voice shook — ' God knows I have
no desire to see him here ; but yet his wish
to come is not unnatural. I cannot blame
him for it ; I think it is not unnatural, my
dear.'

No — but it is useless,' she said simply.
And then she remained standing in silence,
still holding the letter in her hand.

Was she altogether angry that he was
coming ? — or altogether vexed ? Her first
emotion had been entirely one of indignation
and regret : but when a few minutes had
passed other feelings began to mingle with
this first one — some curiosity, some expectation
bes^an to stir in her. There was such a
hunger in her heart for some news from the
place where she had been so happy — for the

sicrht of some one who could talk to her about
it. It was silly of Cecil to come ; yet, if he
would not be satisfied without coming — if it
was inevitable that she must submit to his
visit — might she not even possibly be the
happier for it, since it would give her the
power of assuring herself afresh that what
she had done was right ?

He is very foolish,' she said aloud, after a
little silence ; ' and, papa ' — severely — ' I don't
think you have been very wise ; but since he
seems resolved to come, and you have given
him leave, I suppose he must do it. And we
shall have to make the best of the business
that we can.'

Yes, my love, — yes, certainly ; that is all
we can say,' returned the Eector meekly ; and
slunk away to his study, not without a sense
of relief.

Yet he sighed to himself as he sat down
presently to answer Cecil's letter, ' The lad is

VOL. Ill D

a good lad — a well-meaning lad — I believe,'
he said to himself, ' yet I could have been
well pleased if he had been content to stay
away. I did — I imagine — in a measure assent
to his suggestion of paying us a visit ; but if
she were to be brought by him to change her
mind — if this were to result in her leaving
us — it would — it would be a bitter blow tome.
Yet I have no right to feel like this ; no
right ; all parents have to bear these things,'
said the poor Eector bravely after a little
pause. And he sat down presently and wrote
to Cecil, and told the boy, with rather an
aching heart, that his visit would be welcome
(if — ' on more manure consideration ' — he
should still be of opinion that it was desirable
to pay it) at the time he had proposed.

That time was still a full week distant :
April 15 was the day that Cecil had fixed. It
would fall on a Thursday. ' And will he stay
one night, and then go back next day ? ' Diana

pondered. ' I should think he would only
stay a single night, — or two at the very most.
He will see at once that it will be no use to
remain longer.' And yet — very curiously —
she was conscious presently of a certain reluctance
to conclude that his visit would be
so brief.

I shall hardly hear anything from him
unless he remains a little longer,' she thought.
'He will be so full of himself at first that he
won't talk of anything else. Perhaps — if he
comes at all — he had better stay till Monday,
that is, if papa likes to ask him,' she
demurely added. ' Of course / shall not. i
shall say nothing either way. And, indeed,
I don't know that I care.' But nevertheless,
as the days went on, her thoughts dwelt on
this approaching visit of Cecil's with a persistence
of which she could not but be aware ;
and the Eector, watching her with some
anxiety, became aware of it too, and naturally

D 2

drew his own conclusions from her preoccupation.


Does it not seem to you, Susan, that she
is thinking a good deal of this young man's
coming ? ' he began tentatively to ask his wife
after a day or two ; and Susan assented, and
said she was sure Diana was thinking about
the young man a good deal.

And we can't wonder if she is, — can we,
dear ? ' she simply asked. ' It would be so
natural if she were to come to marry him in
the end, when he is, apparently, such a nice
young fellow, and so fond of her, and when it
would be so much to her advantage too in a
worldly way. I don't think any girl ought to
marry for money, and I am sure Diana never
would ; but still, if she were to feel that she
could like him, it would be nice for her to be
so well off, and settled in such a beautiful
place, wouldn't it ? ' And the good soul gave
a little sigh, thinking, perhaps, in her gentle

way, that, though money indeed was not
everything, yet the want of money made
some things — such as housekeeping and the
bringing up of children — rather a trial, if one
were not strong. ' Though indeed,' she added
self-reproachfully next moment, ' we have
been very happy, dear, though we have been
so poor. I am sure I may say that gratefully.'


We may both of us say it, Susan ; both
of us,' answered the Eector with tenderness.

And yet how could either of them help
dyeing on the fact that, if Diana could begot
to accept Cecil, it would be a great
marriage for her ?

'She would have a fine position, — such a
position as she could never otherwise hope
for ; and she would do such credit to it ; she
would fill it so well,' the poor father told himself
a hundred times. • To me it would be a
terrible loss, — an incalculable loss ; after these

last happy months I can scarcely bear to think

of it ; but if it were to be for her good '

And then the good man would sit with
his pen idle in his hand, this half-written
sermon forgotten, his thoughts busy only
with Diana and Diana's future, till, half-overwhelmed
with a sense of coming anguish, he
would look hastily round to assure himself
that she was still within his sight, — that this
brilliant lot he was picturing for her had not
yet become the reality that would leave him
desolate.

What is it, dear? ' Diana asked him one
day innocently, happening to look up and catch
one of those hurried glances, and supposing
that he was in want of something.

But when she put this question her father
gave a quick, tremulous laugh, and — ' Oh,
nothing, — nothing, my darling,' he answered
hastily. 'I only wanted to see tha you
were there.'

On this Diana laughed too. Ii she suspected
his thoughts she did not let him see
that she suspected them.

I am generally here. You don't get
quit of me often in these days, do you ? ' she
only answered cheerfully.

And then the poor Eector all but broke
down.

Get rid of you ? Xo, my dear, — thank
God I — thank God ! ' he cried, and with his
trembling voice could trust himself no
farther.

But Diana made no answer for a few
moments, and then merely said : ' I am croinf^
to take you out for a walk immediately.
You have been writing that stupid old sermon
far too long.'

And five minutes afterwards she carried
him away from his desk, out into the soft
April air.

It was just a year since she had had her

first sight of Wilmotes. In these spring days
that had come round aorain she thought of
those other days a hundred times ; she was
haunted by them ; she could not get quit of
the memory of them. ' The trees must be all
bursting into leaf again now ; the sun must
be shining on the terrace where grandpa
used to walk. Oh, I should like to walk there
again ! ' she used to think. ' I should like to
go to sleep and dream that I was there again.'
And then the thought would come : ' Shall
I ever see it all any more ? Shall I never
see it all ? ' and an irrepressible yearning at
times would take possession of her.

But she did not speak to her father of
Wilmotes as they walked along the sweet
spring lanes, and over the commons where the
gorse was coming into flower. She only
talked of the parish, and of matters near at
Jiome — of the new curate of St. John's,
amongst other things. For St. John's had got

a new curate, Mr. Stapleton having, during
her absence at Wihnotes — almost providentially,
Diana thought — acquired a living in
another place, and left his curacy to be filled
by another man. ' Which is a blessing both
for him and me,' she had more than once
said to herself with the heartiest satisfaction.

'Though, indeed, child, he was a good
young man, and deeply devoted to his work,'
the Eector would remark. ' I would not
say that he was altogether manly, or large-minded,
but he was much in earnest ; and, Di,'
he ventured to add once, ' I am afraid he
thought a good deal about you''

Upon which Diana was a little taken
aback, and for a moment or two knitted her
brows somewhat impatiently ; but presently,
in a gentle enough way, ' Well, if he ever
thought about me, I hope that by this time
he has found someone in his new parish to
put me completely out of his head,' she said.

He was a great goose, papa, and I am
heartily glad that he has left St John's. But
at the same time, as you say, he was verj^
good, and I would take some trouble to do
him a good turn, if I ever had the chance.'

Well, I certainly think they are better
off at St. John's with their new man,' replied
the Eector.

And then Diana assented to this. ' I
think they are. I like him very much,' she
said.

It was already April 13, and in two more
days they were to see Cecil. The Eector
said little to his daughter about the coming
visit — they both seemed to be conscious that
it would be difficult to speak of it — that the
less said perhaps the better. Only to-day he
took courage to remark that he hoped the
weather would be fine when the lad came,
for, of course, their accommodation in the
house being so limited

But be had only got so far when Diana
interrupted him.

I hope you won't make apologies to him
for that, papa,' she said with some sternness,
whatever the weather may be. He must
take us as we are, since he chooses to come.
If he does not like the house and its accommodation,
he can go away.'

Oh, no doubt, my dear — no doubt,' the
Rector responded meekly to this speech.
Still unquestionably things will work better
if it should be fine.'

And then Diana condescended to assent to
this, and even to remark voluntarily that it
would be a little unfortunate if it were to
rain, ' for people naturally like to see a little
in a new neighbourhood, and we might take
him some pretty walks, if he cared about it,'
she said.

After which there was a little pause,
till Mr. Fielding remarked presently that he

was afraid he would not be very comfortable
at the inn.

That is his concern,' Diana answered
briefly. ' Since he has chosen to come, he
must certainly put up with the inn. We
can't take him in.'

Unfortunately not,' said the Eector.

I don't know that it is unfortunate,' the
girl retorted. ' Indeed I rather think it is
the other way ; for if we had had a spare
room, imagine the trouble that his coming
would have been to Susan ! Xo — I am very
glad, for my part. If he gets bad accommodation,
or bad dinners at the inn, that is his
own affair, not ours.'

Well, of course,' the Eector allowed,
his being at the inn will simply things.'

It will not only simplify things, but it
will make practicable what otherwise would
be impracticable,' she answered. ' Whether it
would not be better if it had been impracticable

is another question,' she added half
aloud.

Ah, as to that we can of course say
nothing,' her father replied with an inward
sigh, and walked on with his eyes upon the
ground.

CHAPTER III

HE chances of rain need not have
troubled Mr. Fielding, for the 15th
of April dawned with an almost
cloudless sky.

One might really be tempted to think it
was a good omen !' exclaimed Susan,. who, in
her gentle way, was a good deal excited
about their expected visitor, and who in
the course of the last week had begun, in
regard to the question of Diana's marriage,
to set herself almost unconsciously, yet
visibly, on Cecil's side. ' One might almost
think it was a good omen, oughtn't one ? ' she

said brightly to her husband, with a certain
thrill of hope and expectation.

But the Eector only looked rather sadly
at the sunshine, and — ' God knows ! ' was all
he answered almost below his breath ; and
poor Susan, abashed at her own excitement,
suddenly held her peace, and tried loyally to
hold her wishes in check.

It would be dreadful if she were to cro
away,' she thought ; ' it would be like losing
lier altogether. And yet,' her rebellious heart
would force her to reflect, ' when one thinks
that she will never probably in all her life
have anything like such a chance again ! —
when one thinks that she would be " Lady
Rivers," and have such a splendid fortune ! —
I hardly see how one can help hoping that it
may come about. And he is a nice younor
man too, they say — really a nice, good young
man. But I will try not to wish anything
about it one way or the other,' the food soul

declared to herself resignedly ; ' and I won't
say anything ; for I can't help them, and I
know it is all in better hands than mine.' Yet
still, try as she would to be entirely passive
and impartial, she could not calm down the
flutter of excitement that on the morning of
Cecil's expected arrival attacked her as soon
as she was out of bed, and never subsided
again throughout the day.

The very children got to feel that there
was something in the air, and, conscious
perhaps of their mother's agitated mind,
pricked up their ears and kept themselves
wide-awake and curious.

'Who's coming?' they demanded in the
course of the morning.

No one, except a cousin of sister's,'
replied Mrs. Fielding, with affected indifference.


What cousin ? ' they all ejaculated upon
this.

And then Susan had to explain the matter
to them.

Her cousin from Wilmotes, dears. But
he is only coming to the inn, not here, so
there is nothing for you to excite yourselves
about. I don't know that you will see him
at all. Perhaps you may.'

And is he coming to see Di ? ' asked
lilly.

'Yes, — and your father,' replied Mrs.
Fielding.

He's the chap that fiddles, isn't he ? "
demanded Dick. ' Will he bring his fiddle
with him ? '

I don't know ; I should think not.'
replied Susan. ' He is only coming because he
wants to see papa and sister — upon business."

Oh ! ' said Dick carelessly, and seemed
for the moment to lose interest in the matter ;
but Milly and Kate still kept their bright
eyes fixed upon their mother's face, and

YOL. ni. E

showed clearly that they felt they had not
cot to the bottom of the matter.

Why didn't you tell us he was coming,
mother? Nobody ever told us a word. Is
Di pleased ? ' they asked curiously.

My dears, I am sure I can't tell you,'
answered Susan with truth. 'I dare say she
is, but I certainly haven't asked her. Come,
get your books now and sit down.'

And she sat down herself and began her
daily schooling ; but to tell the truth, the
children had an easy time of it that morning.


In fact, Mrs. Fielding had not only her
thoughts but her hands too pretty well filled
with matters quite apart from education, for
We must ask him to tea, my dear, mustn't
we ? ' she had already some days ago
inquired of her husband, and, though the
Eector had answered dubiously that he
supposed they should have to ask him, but,

seeing that be was accustomed to take his
dinner hate, he hardly supposed Cecil would
accept their invitation, still Susan had had
her own juster views on that matter, and had
indeed been labouring in her kitchen ever
smce in anxious preparation of such dainty
viands as it was ^\dthin her power to provide ;
for surely,' she reasonably thought to herself,
' if he is given the chance, he will rather
stay here to tea with Diana than go away and
dine at the inn by himself; and, though I
can't do much for him, still I think if I could
make one or two little things that are rather

nice ' And so, unknown to Diana, the

good soul had been secretly devoting whatever
spare time she could command for the
last three days to the concoction of such
dishes as her simple mind conceived might
tempt the fastidious taste of a pampered
baronet.

Of course he won't think much of any



SSnrofWi.-.

thing ive can do for him,' she said humbly
on the last day to her husband. And the
Eector, quite unconscious of how she had
been toiling, merely laughed.

Well, no ; he is hardly likely to think very
much of it,' he answered ; ' but at any rate you
can give him some good tea and bread and
butter, — and a little jam to eat with it.'

And then even Susan laughed too. ' Oh
yes, I can do that, — and perhaps a little more,'
she replied, with something in her voice of
the nature of a gentle chuckle.

Cecil had announced that he would arrive
by an afternoon train.

And I suppose you will go to meet him ? '
Mrs. Fielding said in the course of the morning
to Diana and her husband rather dubiously,
and with an inquiring glance that
wavered vaguely between them.

But — ' / go to meet him, Susan ! ' Diana
exclaimed in amazement ; and —

'My dear, it will be a strange thing if he
can find no one to tell him his way to the
Eectory,' replied Mr. Fielding ; and the poor
little woman, suddenly conscious of her
blunder, at once withdrew her question, and
stole away guiltily to see after the condition
of the kitchen oven.

Xo, I don't think we need meet him,' the
Eector said when she was gone. ' We shall
have him here fast enough without that.'
And he turned from the parlour and made
for his study, with something between a
laugh and a sigh.

It would have been difficult for Diana on
this final morning to put her feeling about
Cecil's coming into words. She was half
eager to see him ; she was half most reluctant
to see him. If he had been coming from any
other place than Wilmotes her reluctance
would have overbalanced her eagerness
beyond all shadow of question ; but, as it

was, she wavered — she was uncertain — she
almost knew that if some accident were
now to prevent his appearance, her heart
would sink.

Not that I want to see him ; it is not
that — it is not that,' she repeated to herself
vehemently. And in truth it was not. She
wanted news from Wilmotes, but she did not
want poor Cecil.

And yet when he came at last, the girl's
heart warmed towards him. She was in the
garden with Mrs. Fielding when she heard
the click of the latch at the garden gate,
and, turning quickly in the direction of the
sound, as her eyes caught sight of the lad's
tall, slim figure, the colour flamed up
in her face. ' There he is ! ' she said briefly ;
but she left Susan behind her as, with a
sudden impulse of welcome, she went towards
him.

Well ! ' she ejaculated as they met, with

a smile, and with the flush still on her
cheeks.

Well ! ' echoed Cecil bashfully, and blushing,
too, with happiness to the roots of his hair.

And then as they looked at one .another,
and each held the other's hand, they suddenly
broke into a simultaneous laugh ; and it was
only when all this was over that Diana recollected
that she had meant to receive him in
quite another way. But she was an impulsive
woman, and the actual sight of him had
put all her previously rehearsed reception
out of her head.

She pulled herself together again, however,
pretty quickly.

I suppose you found your way u])
easily ? ' she courteously inquired after half
a dozen seconds.

Oh yes,' said Cecil.

This is Mrs. Fielding,' she said, introducing
Susan.

Oh ! ' murmured Cecil, and tore off his
hat.

And then Susan made her little welcoming
speech.

I am so glad to see you. I hope you
have had a pleasant journey ? It is a
lovely day, isn't it ? and the country is all
looking so nice,' she said.

Oh yes,' assented Cecil, ' it is beautiful.'
He glanced sideways at Diana ; he was evidently
happy, yet in a state of supreme
nervousness. 'I think it's far jollier here
than it is about us,' he said.

Well, I don't know Yorkshire,' smiled
susan, ' but it is pretty here, and I am so
glad you have come to make acquaintance
with it. Di, I think I will go and tell papa
that— Sir Cecil '

'Oh, pmy don't call me "Sir Cecil I " '
ejaculated the lad precipitately, and with
such a look of alarm upon his face that Mrs.

Fielding and Diana could not keep their
gravity. ' You won't, will you ? ' he continued
entreatingly. 'I thought of course
you would let me call you " Aunt Susan ? " '

Why, so I ^vill. To be sure I will ! '
exclaimed the kind soul, with all her warm
heart in her eyes, and beaming upon the
young man delightedly. ' And I won't say
"Sir Cecil." It would sound rather stiff and
cold, wouldn't it? Well, I will go and tell
papa that Cecil has come ; ' and, declaring
her intention in this amended form, and with
an almost motherly smile of kindness and
regard, she hastened indoors.

How nice she is ! ' murmured Cecil with
boyish gratitude as she departed.

Yes,' answered Diana dryly; ' she is about
too nice to be quite fit for this world.'

And then, having uttered this somewhat
dubious speech, she proceeded to conduct
her companion towards the house.

Poor Cecil was still flushed with happiness
and excitement when, after a minute or
two, Mr. Fielding received him.

'Well, my boy, you have made your way
to us,' was the Eector's quiet greeting as he
shook the lad's hand ; and Cecil assented,
with a nervous laugh.

Yes, — but I hope you don't mind ? I
hope you don't think I shouldn't have come ? '
he stammered in response — regardless of, or
perhaps too frightened for the moment to
remember, the fact that Diana was standing
at his back.

The Eector, however, who saw his
daughter's face, smiled with a certain rather
sad sense of what was comic in the situation.
Next moment he put his hand on the boy's
shoulder.

You are welcome to your uncle's house,
such as it i?,' he said, with his customary
gentle kindness ; but he made no answer to

Cecil's inquiries, and merely led the way into
the Eectory parlour.

The children were all there, seated at a
table before one of the windows, and presumably
busy at their lessons ; but, as may
safely be conjectured, they had already made
themselves acquainted with the fact of Cecil's
arrival, and as he entered the room their
six eyes turned towards him, and remained
fixed upon him with an unblushing scrutiny
that brought the colour anew to its more
sensitive face. He was quite unused to children,
and, to tell the truth, they frightened
him.

Come here, my dears, and speak to this
gentleman,' said the Eector. ' Di, do they
know who he is ? '

Of course we do,' responded Dick contemptuously.
' He's Di's cousin ; ' and he
came forward, still staring, and put out his
hand.

And then Milly and Kate, with shyer
steps, followed him, and Cecil shook hands
with them all.

This is Dick,' explained Mrs. Fielding,
and this little girl is Kate, and this is Milly.
They have heard all about you from sister
Di, — haven't you, dears? And I think'
(smiling) ' that Dick at any rate has a question
he very much wants to ask you. Dick
is very fond of music '

Ah ! ' interrupted Cecil, suddenly beaming,
' I am very glad to hear that.' And he
looked at Dick approvingly.

Well, now then, ask your question, Dick,'
urged Susan with motherly delight. .,^

And upon this, Dick grinned sheepishly,
and shifted himself from one foot to another in
silence, but finally was persuaded to speak.

I wanted to know if — you'd brought your
fiddle with you ? ' he said.

'Did you think I should?' asked Cecil,

blushing anew. ' Well — I didn't quite know

whether to bring it or not, but ' glancing

uneasily round in search of Diana, ' in point of
fact, I — have brought it.'

Oh — I say ! ' cried Dick, forgetting Iiis
shyness, and beaming with pleasure. And
then Milly and Kate, encouraged by his example,
ventured to laugh : and Susan and Mr.
Fielding for sympathy laughed too ; and it
was only Diana, standing a little in the background,
who maintained her gravity, and
appeared to discover no special reason for
jubilation.

In fact, the discovery that Cecil had
equipped himself with his violin as a portion of
his travelling paraphernalia had rather taken
her aback.

He would never have brought it if he had
meant to stay only for a single night — or even
two,' she began to think in rather an alarmed
way. ' Does he mean to plant himself down

here then ? Oh, dear, that will never do ! I
shall have to tell him so, and to send him away.'
And she sighed with impatient vexation. It
was all very well to see Cecil : she allowed to
herself that she had wanted to see him, and
hear his news ; but to have him lingering in
the place for an indefinite length of time — him
and his violin ! — that was a sort of prospect
the sudden presentation of which almost took
away her breath.

And — oh, grant her patience ! — what was
this too that Susan was saying to him in her
kind, cooing accents ?

I am so sorry that we are obliged to let
you stop at the inn : it would have been so
nice to have had you here — if only we could
have given you a room : but it is such a little
house — unfortunately,' was the cordial speech
to which she found herself forced to listen.

Oh, don't think of that ! ' Cecil cried, in
eagerly courteous response.

And then Mr. Fielding struck in.

Well — it is a case of necessity : Ave have
no spare room,' he said briefly. ' But you will
be able to make yourself pretty comfortable at
the Grown, I hope ; and except for sleeping —
ahem ! — except for sleeping ' (the good Eector
was painfully conscious that his daughter was
listening to him, and hardly knew how to end
his sentence), ' you will always have us to come
to here.'

Oh yes — thank you ! ' interrupted Cecil,
hurriedly but fervently, coming to his uncle's
relief perhaps none too soon. ' Oh, I shall be
perfectly comfortable : pray don't mind. It is
so nice to be here at all. 1 think it is delightful.
And I am sure I shall like the inn. It's
quite a new experience to me, you know,'
with a boyish laugh. ' I mean — I have sone
about so little for such a long time '

Ah, well,' interrupted the Eector cheerfully,
' there are worse things than taking

one's ease in one's inn. And the Crown is a
very well-managed house and kept by decent
people. Did you take your things there ? '

Oh yes,' replied Cecil, ' and I engaged
my room. It is quite a nice room, looking
out over a common. I thought it was jolly.'

Then you will spend the evening with us,'
said the Eector, — ' that is, if you can put up
with a family tea instead of a solitary dinner.'

Oh, I should think indeed I could ! ' cried
Cecil with eagerness ; and he beamed on his
uncle, and on Susan, and on the children with
a simple happiness that perhaps touched some
of them. But he tried in vain to catch Diana's
eye : Diana, as it chanced, was looking steadily
through the window.

Now, dears, gather up your books,' Susan
was saying next moment to her progeny, ' and
go and do the rest of your lessons upstairs. We
don't want you down here any longer.' And
she would have swept them off if Cecil, with a

nervous access of sudden courage, had not interposed.


Ob, don't send them away on my
account,' he exclaimed. ' I hope you are
not doing that ? — because it is so nice out of
doors. I was just thinking that it looked so
pretty in the garden.'

'Yes,' said Diana, speaking for the first
time, and in an instant directing all the
conscious eyes in the room towards her, ' it is
pleasant in the garden than here. Let us
come out. We have no drawing-room, you
must know,' with a momentary look directed
straight at Cecil, and a momentary laugh, ' so
when we want one we go and sit on the lawn,
and in fine weather it does not make a bad
substitute.'

Oh, I am sure it does not I It must be
delightful,' cried the lad, with pleasure beaming
from his eyes.

Then — will you come ? '

VOL. III. F

She spoke very briefly, but he was too content
to find any fault with her curtness. Susan,
too, as she heard her stepdaughter's invitation,
gave a sigh of relief.

Oh, how nice of her ! She will take him
off our hands now till tea time,' was what the
good soul thought ; ' and papa can go back to
his study in peace, and I can get away to the
kitchen.' And so she smiled upon Cecil with
an easy mind. One could always depend upon
Diana really, she thought, though in talking to
her she might be sometimes a little — difficult.

The Eector accompanied the other two to
the house door, but he left them there, and
they went on into the garden alone. It was a
sweet, half sunny April afternoon, warm for
the time of year, with a dappled sky, and
a sound of birds' songs in the air.

In reality, we have hardly begun to sit
yet on the lawn,' Diana abruptly said ; ' but
you see the case stands in this way. We have

only got one sitting-room, and Susan will be
happier just now to have it to herself. You
mustn't confess to her that I have told you,
but she has been engaged of late in killing a
fatted calf, and she wants the room now to
spread her feast in it.'

There was a sort of bravado in this speech,
and Cecil, who was certainly not wanting in
sensitiveness, showed by his uneasy look that
he was conscious of it.

I hope you don't mean that she has been
killing a fatted calf for me ? ' he asked hastily.
If she has, I can only say I am very sorry.
I am sure you know well enough that she
might feed me on bread and water, if she
Heed, so long as she only let me stay in the
place.'

Oh well, I said something of that sort to
her, but she wouldn't be convinced,' replied
Diana indifferently. ' You see, she is not
accustomed to the society of baronets, got

F 2

a little used to them at Wil motes, and, I
suppose, overcame my natural awe of them
there.'

Diana, I can't think why you talk Hke
this ? ' the young man interrupted with uneasiness.
' I can't help being a baronet, can I ?
I am sure ' — becoming indignant — ' so far as
I am concerned, it makes no difference to me
whether I am a baronet, or — or a crossing-sweeper
! '

Bless me ! ' murmured Diana. .

Well, I don't exactly mean that,' corrected
Cecil hastily. ' Of course, if I were a 
you wouldn't have anything to
say to me at all. But there is no difference
between a baronet and anybody else — any
other gentleman — is there now ? That is what
I meant to say ! ' — triumphantly.

Well, I don't see much, certainly,' Diana
assented with composure. ' At least, I see no
difference in you since you became what you

are now. — How does everything go on at
Wilmotes ? I want to know.'

She spoke these two hist sentences abruptly,
in a tone that only struck the hid perhaps as
being a little hard and indifferent ; he conkl
not tell that as she put her sudden questions
the blood quickened its movement in her
veins.

Oh, it's all awfully dull ; there's nothing
going on at all,' he answered carelessly. ' It's
just as it used to be, — a terribly dead-alive sort
of place. Of course, in one way — for me —
it's ever so much better since my grandfather
died ; though I imagine it wouldn't seem better
on that account to you.'

Xo, certainly it would not,' she replied
with decision. ' But I can understand your
thinking it so,' she was fair enough to add.

Well, you see, I am my own master now,
and can do what I like. Of course that is an
improvement. Only, I don't care about doing

anything. I mean — oh, you know what I
mean ! ' cried the boy. ' There's only one
thing I want, and until I know whether I
shall get it or not I can't turn my mind to
anything else. The truth is, I'm sick of
Wilmotes — without you. If you won't have
me in the end, I'll give the whole thing up
and go abroad.'

And how is your mother ? ' asked Diana.

Oh, she's all right,' he said. ' She doesn't
mind living as if she were buried. And
indeed she is not as much buried now as she
used to be, for more people come to the house,
and she goes out more. They're awfully dull
people — the Greyhounds, and Lady Dawson, and
Miss Workhouse, and Mrs. Welland, and all
that lot — but she seems to like them. Oh yes,
she's right enough, — ever so much more comfortable
than she used to be.'

'And is there any news at all in the
neighbourhood ? '

Well, I don't know,' said Cecil thoughtfully.
' I heard of a girl the other day who
was going to be married. Let me see, who
was she ? Oh, I remember ! It was only
Lucy Sanderson ; she is going to marry
somebody at Leeds. No, I can't think of any
news. The Westbrooks are all right, and
everybody else seems to be just as they were
when you were there. I am afraid, by the
way, that things are not going very well with
Dr. Brydon.'

No ? * said Diana.

It is all, of course, about that sister of
his. He was a fool ever to bring her to the
place. She has ruined his position ; that is
the long and the short of it.'

One sometimes honours a man more for
being a fool than for being worldly-wise,' said
Diana sharply.

Yes, of course, I know that,' assented
Cecil. ' And I know he's been awfully good

to Mrs. Brydon ; only, you see, it was an
unwise thing ever to attempt to have her to
live with him, wasn't it ? And now he can't
draw back and acknowledge himself to be
beaten. Or, at least, I suppose he thinks he
can't. What / believe is, that in the end he
will be driven to leave the place. They say
he hasn't half the practice now that he had
two years ago. Even my mother — well.
Lady Dawson persuaded her the other day,
when one of the servants was ill, to send for
Dr. Hunter from Earnshaw. I wouldn't have
done it myself, of course,' added Cecil deprecatingly
; ' but you see I had nothing to do
with the matter.'

You are a narrow-minded, ungenerous
community,' said Diana with much composure.
And then Cecil laughed.

I dare say we are,' he agreed ; ' though I
don't know that we are worse than the people
in other places. You took up Mrs. Brydon

very much yourself, and of course it was very
nice of you ; but I don't believe that even
you ever thought it had been wise in Dr.
Brydon to bring her to Wilinotes ? Her
coming has never done her a bit of good,
poor lady ; and I am sure it has done him an
immense deal of harm.'

But it was a brave and generous thing of
him to do, for all that ; and I honour him for
it,' said Diana stoutly.

Oh yes, one admires him for it, — in a
way,' assented Cecil, not too cordially ; and
then she flung a scornful smile upon him.

Only, if he had shown that he had a
worldly mind, and had weighed the consequences
of his act before he committed himself
to it, you would have admired him a
good deal more ? '

Cecil looked at her uneasily.

Well, but one ought to weigh the consequences
of one's acts, surely ? ' he said.

Yes, if we are likely to repent afterwards
of having performed them. But do you
think that Dr. Brydon repents of what he has
done ? / don't;

'He will repent of it, I imagine, in the
end, if they drive him away. And that is
what they are most likely to do, people say.'

If a man fights in a good cause, do you
think (if he is worth anything) that he repents
simply because he is beaten ? '

Cecil turned his face to her with one of
his sweet, weak smiles.

Oh, cousin, why do you try so to make
me argue with you ? ' he said, ' / never run
down Dr. Brydon. You always somehow
used to be touchy about him, and I never
could quite make out why, for personally
you never seemed to like him much. Indeed,
I have seen you awfully short with him.
But of course I know one may admire a man's
character though one doesn't really get on

with him; and I am sure, if it comes to that,
/ admire Dr. Brydon's character too. I have
never had a great deal to do with him, you
know, but I think he is very good and very
independent and brave. He was never a bit
afraid of my grandfather.'

He certainly was not,* assented Diana,
with a sort of inward laugh. 'And grand-papa
on his side respected him. Though
I allow that I believe he would often have
liked to knock him down.

Oh, I am sure he would often have liked
to knock him down,' said Cecil fervently.

The Eectory garden was very pretty,
though it was not large, and to Cecil's happy
love-bedazzled eyes it seemed a sort of Paradise
in the soft sunshine of the April evening.
What better thing almost could he wish for
than to be walking here with Diana ?

I have so longed to see you — a hundred
times before now,' he broke out suddenly,

after a little silence. ' Were you angry when
I wrote ? ' and he looked timidly and wistfully
at her. ' I was dreadfully afraid that
you would be angry, and yet I felt as if I could
not wait any longer. Uncle Fielding had
told me that I might come some day, you
know.'

Yes,' said Diana, ' but he had told you
that without consulting me.'

Ah ! ' murmured the boy sadly, and let
his eyes drop to the ground.

And I don't think he was wise.*

But — are you vexed ? '

He put his question so beseechingly that
she was troubled how to answer it. For a
few moments she said nothing ; then she
replied simply, ' I am not vexed to see my
cousin.'

Ah, but when you say that,' he exclaimed,
you mean '

You know what I mean,' she replied, and.

silenced him by her sudden straight look into
his face.

Cecil sighed and held his tongue ; but she
began in a little while to talk of something
else, and, boy like, he recovered his
spirits, and talked too. They rambled up
and down the garden walks till, demurely
advancing towards them over the grass in
their Sunday frocks, Milly and Kate appeared
to call them in to tea.

'Mamma says, would you come, please,'
said Milly, delivering her message bashfully,
but fixing her big eyes as she spoke with
eager curiosity upon Cecil's face.

Oh, certainly ! ' replied Cecil, blushing a
little at this regard.

Mamma didn't ring the bell,' remarked
Kate with solemnity, and staring hard at him
too, ' because she thought she had better
not.'

Oh ! ' murmured Cecil vaguely, and

glanced at Diana hastily for an explanation
of this unintelligible statement.

Diana interpreted it for him instantly, with
a laugh.

'My stepmother,' she said frankly, 'has
evidently a little doubt as to whether a
baronet would like to be rung in to his
meals.'

Oh — I say ! ' cried Cecil, and, in spite of
the presence of the children, he burst out
laughing ; upon which Milly and Kate laughed
irresponsibly and joyfully too, and at once
proceeded to set themselves at his side, with
eyes still lifted upwards.

Cecil felt shy, but he guessed instinctively
from their exalted looks that they expected
him to begin to talk to them, so with an
effort he made the first remark that he could
think of.

Have you finished all your lessons ? ' he
asked them kindly.

Oh yes,' answered Milly, almost with
scorn. ' They were done long ago. I've
been helping mother.'

Yes, she's been helping to lay the cloth,'
explained Kate pleasantly.

Oh ! ' said Cecil, rather embarrassed, and
blushing for what he feared had been an
inopportune inquiry.

But Diana said with composure, ' We all
help to lay the cloth at times. Perhaps you
don't know that ladies do such things ? But
they do very often, if they have only one
servant, — and especially when visitors come.
We only keep one servant. I don't tell you
this in any spirit of humility, but only for
your enlightenment.'

Oh dear,' sighed Cecil in a vexed way.
I wish you wouldn't be so disagreeable ! '

And then Diana laughed, and Milly's and
Kate's eyes grew very round.

They found mr. and Ours. Fielding and

Dick all in the parlour, and a repast of what
was certainly, for the Eectory, unusual
splendour on the table. Indeed, after surveying
the glory of her completed work,
poor Susan had thought it wise to call in
both her husband and her son to survey it
also (the girls had already feasted their eyes
upon it), lest the sudden brilliancy of the
sight should betray them, in Cecil's presence,
into some unseemly expression of amazement
or satisfaction.

I just want you to look for a moment,
ray dear,' she had said timidly to her husband.

Well — upon my word ! ' exclaimed the
Eector.

And, to confess the truth, Dick ejaculated,
Oh, Gemini ! ' and executed an impromptu
hornpipe on the spot.

This made them all laugh, though the
poor mother coloured, and the Eector, even
amidst his laughter, shook his head.

I doubt if you should have done this,
Susan,' he said. ' It was not necessary, my
dear ; and — and we can hardly afford these
displays. But the table looks very nice, —
wonderfully nice, indeed,' he added kindly.
• It certainly does you the greatest credit.'

xlnd it has cost less than you would
think,' explained Susan deprecatingly.

'I am sure it has cost as little as possible.'

And then Mr. Fielding walked critically
round the board, examining the viands wonderingly.


'It is surprising how you can have
managed it ; really surprising,' he said in his
simple way.

It's awfully jolly ! ' cried Dick, and his
enthusiasm reproduced itself in his face.

Well, now, children, go and call them in,'
said Susan in a tone of relief. Whereupon
Kate and Milly went to do their errand ; but
Dick lingered, enamoured, by the feast.

VOL. III. G

It is to be feared that Cecil was sadly
unconscious of the magnificence of the meal
that had been prepared for him. He took
his seat at the table, and began to talk
pleasantly to his hostess about the prettiness
of the place, ' and hardly seemed to know
what he was eating,' the poor soul thought
afterwards, with involuntary disappointment,
to herself.

But at any rate he was. evidently quite
content, and, if he scarcely noticed the difference
between one dish and another, he a*
least ate very heartily of most things that
were put upon his plate. That certainly was
a consolation, Susan thought ; though, after
all her labours, it was but in human nature
for the kind soul to feel a little regret that be
lead not* shown something more of intelligence
and discrimination in his appetite.

I seem to be awfully hungry,' he said once
with his boyish deprecating laugh. ' You do
get hungry, don't you, after a journey? '

And then Susan beamed upon him with
her kindest smile, and with eager hospitality
incited him to fresh efforts.

It was a pleasant enough meal. They
all talked cheerfully, and Cecil, happy and
growing at his ease, showed himself at his
best. He had a kind of weak \ifiarm about
him ; he was kindly and simple and unassuming
; he had the natural courteous
manners of his class. Before .they
rose from table Susan's impulsive and
motherly heart had fairly taken him into it,
and all her sympathies had arrayed themselves
on his side.

He is a little young and boyish, perhaps
— well, he is a little young ; but, oh
dear me, I can't understand how Diana can
refuse him ! ' she thought enthusiastically to
herself. ' / call him delightful — just the
young man I should have thought a girl
would fall in love with. Oh, surely Diana

Q 2

is a little — obstinate, and — odd ! To think
that, so far as any of us can see, she won't
even try to like him ; and he so nice — and so
much depending on the marriage ! ' And
she sighed with hopeless vexation. She
loved her stepdaughter, but yet her stepdaughter's
ways were sometimes to her like
the ways of a woman off her head.

So far, however, as concerned Diana's
special behaviour to her cousin to-night lie
had not much cause to find fault with her,
for the girl treated him kindly, and even
took pains to entertain him. The sun was
still not set when they rose from table, and
so they all (except Mrs. Fielding, whose
household duties were still to some extent
upon her mind) went out of doors again, and
the Eector and Diana took Cecil for a walk.
And then Diana lingered with him in the
garden in the moonlight. Perhaps she had
no business to stay. with him in the moonlight,

but, perverse as she seemed to be to
Susan, in reality she was not perverse : her
indifference to Cecil troubled her more than
the others guessed ; could she help knowing
that if she could care a little more for
him it would make so many people glad ?
So, in order to try if she could not care for
him, she let him keep her in the garden,
on the plea of Hastening to the nightingales
(for the nightingales had begun to sing, and
Cecil had never heard their note), and
for half an hour they stood together, for
the most part in a watchful silence, waiting
for those birds to begin a concert — which,
in fact, in the end they never gave at all.

But Diana got tired at last (though the
boy was happy enough for his part), and
yawned, and said that, as nothing seemed
going to happen, she thought, seeing it was
growing chill, they had better go in. And
with that she turned her steps towards

the house ; and Cecil reluctantly followed

her.

Oh, well, I mustn't keep you any longer,'

he assented. ' I wish they had sung ! But

never mind,' he added cheerfully with his

next breath ; ' we shall be more fortunate

some other night, I hope.'

Some other night ! '

Diana did not make this ejaculation
aloud ; but she uttered it inwardly, raising
her eyebrows in silence. For this was the
first declaration he had made that threw any
light upon the length of time that he meditated
spending in the place ; and it was a
declaration that, to say the least of it, made
Diana open her eyes.

d\

;ELL, we shall see you, no doubt,
some time tomorrow,' the Eector
said a little vaguely, shaking
hands with his guest at ten o'clock, and the
boy's face broke into a smile as he responded
with a joyous 'Oh yes!' In fact, he had
already secured Diana's consent to accompany
him for a walk during the morning, and she
struck in now and said so.

Cecil wants to get to the top of Sleeve
Hill, so we thought of going there if the day
was fine,' she announced composedly.

Ah, indeed ! Very good,' replied the

Eector. ' That is a very nice walk. Well,
my boy — good-night ! '

And then Cecil made his adieux, and the
Eector saw him out at the house door.

'And, of course, he will be here again
tomorrow evening ? ' he remarked half-questioning
when he had come back into the
room. ' 1 suppose — ahem ! — that he said
nothing to either of you, my dears, as to the
date of his return home ? '

Oh, nothing to me ! ' cried Susan.

Nor to me,' said Diana. ' Except,' she
added pretty dryly, ' that he spoke of hoping
to make himself acquainted with the ways of
nightingales during his visit ; and 1 am afraid
they are birds that it takes some time to study.'

Bless me ! ' exclaimed the Eector impulsively.
' Then do you think he has come
to— stop ? '

I don't know, father. I put no questions
to him

We were, I am afraid, hardly prepared
for that. I scarcely see, Susan,' said Mr.
Fielding very gently, ' how you can even
attempt to prepare such a table as you provided
for us this evening for anything like a
series of nights.'

N-o, it would be difficult,' Susan meekly
allowed. ' Oh no ! I couldn't do it. But
then he seemed to notice so little ' — with an
almost imperceptible sigh — ' that perhaps it
wouldn't matter. He seems so very simple.
And he is such a nice fellow ! I am sure,'
cried the kind soul with growing enthusiasm,
/ should really like him to stay, for I think
him so very nice.'

Now, Susan, you mean to spoil him ! I
see that,' said Diana, in a tone that made her
stepmother jump.

The poor lady gave a nervous laugh.

Oh, nonsense, Di ! I am not going to
spoil him. I am sure I wasn't thinking of

anything of that sort. But he is nice — isn't he,
papa ? — and very gentlemanly and pleasant ;
and I do think it is natural that we should
want to make him enjoy his visit. It is so
little that we have it in our power to do for
him.'

The Eector sighed, and made no answer ;
and Diana bent over a bit of sewing by the
lamplight and kept silent too, though I am
afraid her lip curled. There was so little
they could do for him ! Was the giving of
herself to him so little? she scornfully and
rather bitterly thought. But Susan happily
did not see the angry light in her eyes, and
the dear woman went maundering on in her
kind and feeble way.

He seems to me such an extremely
pleasant lad,' she said. ' I dare say I oughtn't
to call him a lad, but there is something
boyish — very delightfully boyish, I think it —
about him. He seems so simple and guileless.

doesn't he ? And how nice he was to Dick
about playing to him ! Did you hear him
say that he would bring up his violin tomorrow?
I call that so very kind. Oh, I
do really like him, — there's no doubt about it.
Isn't his mother very fond of him, Diana? '

The girl gave a laugh.

I never asked her,' she said. ' I suppose
one may take for granted that she is ; only
Aunt Pavers is not an enthusiastic woman,
you know, Uke you, Susan. She is cold-blooded
; more like papa and me.'

My dear Di ! '

Well, don't you think we are cold-blooded
? I am sure you do — especially at
this moment. Why, good gracious ! ' and
the girl suddenly raised her head, ' here you
are looking as fresh and bright as if you
hadn't done a stroke of work all day ; and
here are papa and I hardly able to speak for
yawning ; and all because of the different

ways in which we have been affected by
Cecil. Well — I'm going to bed, for one. And,
Susan, dear, I would advise you to try and
get a little sleep too, — for you can't live upon
excitement, and he will be here again, you
know, tomorrow.'

Oh, Diana, how can you talk such nonsense
! ' cried Mrs. Fielding laughing.

But her face was pink all over when
Diana kissed it.

Cecil came again next morning, and Diana
took him up Sleeve Hill. It was a fine
morning, though rather misty. 'We shall
not have much view, I am afraid,' she told
him ; but the boy cared very little about
that. ' Oh, it will be delightful ! ' he only
answered. And, in fact, he enjoyed himself
prodigiously. As they mounted the rather
steep hillside he began to talk about himself,
and to talk about himself to Diana was
a blissful occupation to Cecil. As for her, she

climbed the hill and did not say much. In
fact, there were moments on their way when
she all but forgot her companion, and
altogether ceased to follow his discourse. It
was but a rambling discourse. Perhaps her
occasional lapses of attention did not much
matter.

The view from the hill summit, if not quite
clear, was very pretty, and they sat down
that they might study it for a long time.
Cecil was very happy, very bright, very keble,
Diana allowed to herself. On the whole,
she was willing to confess that she found him
improved ; but yet he was a boy still, she deliberately
told herself — weak, impressionable,
unformed — not a man. ' mind I doubt if he will
ever be a man,' she thought as she sat listening
to him. ' But, if nature had made him
feminine, it seems to me that he might have
been a nice girl, of an affectionate, rather
namby-pamby sort.' And then she sighed

impatiently. ' I only wish that nature had
made him a girl, and that grandpa had
divided his money between us,' she inwardly
exclaimed.

For — oh, that money ! She did want it, she
knew, or some of it. She was under no
delusion about the matter. She was poor,
and she wanted not to be poor. It was not
so much that she longed to be rich ; actual
wealth did not greatly tempt her, but actual
poverty she was weary of. The poverty that
entailed daily pinching to get both ends to
meet she was so weary of that it made her
sick. If she could but marry Cecil, there
would be an end for her of poverty for ever.

She sighed to herself as he sat talking.
How he did bore her with his talk ! He was
so harmless, and yet he tried her so much.
If she married him, what a dreary thing it
would be, she thought. And then she sat
musing. ' I wonder whether he would be

happy if I did it ? I am afraid he wouldn't,
for I don't think I should be good to him.
I don't think I could be good ; the old Adam
would tempt me so to snap at him. I could
no more look up to him than I could fly.*

And then she gave another impatient
sigh, and this time not inaudibly, so that
poor Cecil heard it, and raised his wistful
eyes in sudden alarm to her face.

Cousin, are you tired ? ' he anxiously
asked. ' Oh, I have been talking too much,
I am afraid, and I have tired you out ! You see,
I am so happy that I have forgotten myself.'

I was merely thinking of something that
troubled me,' Diana quietly explained ; ' and
I have a nasty temper, you know, and so 1
made that impatient sound. Never mind ; if
you are enjoying yourself I am very glad.'

Oh, there is little doubt that / have been
enjoying myself I ' cried the boy with a radiant
smile. ' But I don't like to think that you

are not happy too. Diana,' — wistfully — 'if
you are bothered about anything, couldn't you
tell it to me ? '

But to this soft appeal she responded
cruelly with a laugh, and a speech of the
current sort.

I never tell things,' she said briefly.

Not even to people who could sympathise
? '

She shook her head. 'I don't think
sympathy would agree with me.'

Ah, but you don't know ! I wish you
would try,' cried the boy.

No, I couldn't,' she said. ' I feel that if
I did I should snarl and bite.'

Cousin ! ' he ejaculated amazed.

She took no notice, however, of either his
amazement or his exclamation, but merely got
upon her feet, remarking coolly that the east
wind had been blowing for half an hour upon
the back of her head, and that an east wind

blowing on the back of one's head sometimes
produced extremely pernicious results. ' So
we will go home,' she said. And though, as
they descended the hill, Cecil for a few
moments looked puzzled and disturbed, yet ina
very little while, with the happy simplicity
and forgetfulness of a child, he began to
chatter and enjoy himself again.

She did not take him back with her to the
Eectory. ' We are, unfortunately, obliged to
limit ourselves to having friends to tea,' she
told him quietly ; and he looked puzzled fora
moment, and then hurriedly blushed, and —
'Oh yes — yes, of course,' he eagerly said.
But, may I come to tea again to-night ? '
And then, when she told him that he might,
he went off content.

At an early hour in the afternoon — about
four o'clock — he took advantage of the permission
that had been given him, and presented
himself at the Eectory door. He came

VOL. III. H

armed with his fiddle, but he looked so embarrassed
at having brought it that when
Susan, who had seen his approach, went tolet
him in, he made an ineffectual attempt to
hide it behind his back.

Oh, Mrs. Fielding, you shouldn't have
taken the trouble ! Pray allow me ! ' he ejaculated
at sight of her ; and, while with one hand
he endeavoured to conceal his violin, with the
other, much to poor Susan's reluctance, he
attempted to take the closing of the door upon
himself. ( ' I never knew anybody so courteous.
It's delightful ! ' the simple soul declared afterwards
to herself.)

He shut the door, and then he hastily
thrust his violin into a corner; but Mrs.
Fielding's eyes fastened on it in a moment, and
she gave a Httle purr of delight.

Oh, you have really brought your instrument
! Oh, how good of you ! Dick will be
so happy,' she exclaimed.

The lad looked at her gratefully. 'I had
been almost afraid to bring it. I was afraid
it would only bore you,' he said shyly. But
the next moment he was smiling contentedly,
with the colour in his boyish face.

And, in fact, the bringing of the violin
proved a great success.

Oh — I say ! ' Dick cried out at sight of it,
and with sparkling eyes went eagerly up to
examine it as soon as Cecil had taken it from
its case ; and then, emboldened by his example,
up stole Milly and Kate, and, open-eyed and
deeply interested, the three children stood
beside him as he tuned and touched the
strings, — silent at first, but gradually beginning
to ask question after question, till at the end
of ten minutes Diana, appearing on the scene,
found a Babel of voices in the room, and Dick
mounted on the back of Cecil's chair, while
Milly and Kate stood entranced in front of
him, with their hands upon his knees.

H 2

The lad looked up as Diana entered with
a happy though half deprecating smile.

I am going to play a little to them. They
seem to think they would like it, — if you don't
mind ? ' he said in his boyish, gentle way.

I shall like it too,' she answered, and sat
down near him ; and then after a minute, at
her request, Milly and Kate shifted their
position, and came and reposed themselves
upon her knees, and — merely looking round
with a laugh at Dick, and telling him to take
care that the bow did not get into his eyes-cecil
began his performance, and for twenty
minutes even the little girls stood like statues
while he played.

In realty they were not musical, but, like
Diana, they never before had listened to
playing that bore any resemblance to Cecil's,
and the surprise of it fcr the moment kept them
motionless, with their round eyes fixed upon
his finders. As for Dick, however, his excitement

knew no bounds. The boy alternately
flushed and grew pale with emotion ; after a
time he slid down from his perch, and chose
a fresh position, whence — with more comfort
both to himself and Cecil — he could watch
every motion of the player's hands ; he
dropped down on a chair, and sat with his
elbows on his knees, and his chin in his open
palms, staring breathlessly, like someone
flunof headlong into a new and 
world.

Cecil's lighted, half-inspired eyes dropped
on the boy's face as he ceased to play : the
musician in him was strong enough to make
him instinctively glance first at Dick even
before he looked at Diana.

You are fond of music ? ' he asked
simply.

Dick began to rub his hair up on his head
in a bewildered way.

I — I've always been fond of making out

times he said ; ' but — oh, I never heard
anything Hke that before and he pointed,
almost as if he thought it was alive, at the
vioKn lying silent now on Cecil's knees.

Cecil gave a soft little laugh ; then looked
at Diana and smiled again.

I suppose he is the musical one amongst
you ? ' he said.

Oh yes — he is that certainly she answered.
' He has a splendid ear ; and, though
lie is only such a little fellow, he keeps all the
rest of us right in the choir at church. But
I don't think he ever heard anybody play the
violin before. Did you, Dick? Dick, are
you in a dream ? '

But Dick made no answer, and after a
moment or two Cecil took up his instrument
again, and drew the bow across the strings.
As he touched them he glanced at the boy,
and saw the light start afresh into his eyes ;
he was preparing to listen with something

more than his ears — with all his heart and
soul.

The parlour door stood open, and after
a little while, their curiosity satisfied, Milly
and Kate stole softly away ; and then presently
the Eector called Diana, and she went
out, shutting the door behind her. The
sound of Cecil's violin filled all the little
house. Mr. Fielding heard it inconveniently
loudly in his study ; Susan — busy in the concoction
of some dainty dish for the evening
meal — caught its strains in the kitchen, and
longed to approach and hear it better. ' How
nice of him to play to Dick ! ' she thought.
And indeed her maternal heart would have
opened its doors to him to their utmost width
if she could have peeped into the parlour,
and seen the young musician and his devoted
listener.

Again and again did Cecil play, while
Dick, within a yard of him, sat unwearied and

absorbed. Between the several performances
the two talked a little — the boy asked questions,
and ventured at last once to touch the
magic strings. It was all unutterably wonderful
to him.

I don't suppose anybody could play
better than you do, — could they ? ' he demanded
at last, in a solemn voice that made
Cecil flush, and laugh, and disclaim.

The Eector came into the room at last
while the music was still going on, and, signing
to the performer to continue, stood and
listened to him with much attention for ten
minutes. The good Eector had no ear for
music (hence probably Diana's comparative
indifference to it too) : it was as much as he
could do to distinguish one hymn from another
in church ; but he watched Cecil's flying fingers
with a grave amazement, and complimented
him on his achievement, when it was completed,
with entire sincerity.

'You seem to have obtained great dexterity
on your instrument, my dear boy,'
he said. ' I am no judge, but I think your
performance is — ahem ! — very fine.'

Cecil laughed at this speech and blushed
a little.

You are very good to say so,' he answered
; ' but I am afraid a musician wouldn't.
Learning to play the violin is an endless
business. One may give up all one's life toit,
and never make much of it even in the end.'

Dear me ! ' murmured the Eector, with
a kind of gentle horror, which, however, he
did not betray, as with unnecessary politeness
he stepped forward to assist Cecil in putting
his fiddle back into the case, over which
Dick's head was already bending, his eager
eyes surveying even that prosaic receptacle
with awe and interest.

May I hold it, — just for a moment ? ' he
asked Cecil when the violin was safely enclosed,

and his childish face beamed as he
grasped the handle and lifted it up.

Why, you can carry it — anywhere ! ' he
exclaimed.

Yes — anywhere ; that's the beauty of it,'
replied Cecil. ' You can make it your companion
wherever you go.'

Oh, dear ! ' said Dick, with a sigh of
envy.

It is certainly a — convenient instrument,'
said the Rector. 'And scientifically — I believe
— very perfect. It seems a pity that it
should take so long to acquire proficiency in
playing it, — but — we have all our different
tastes. Your father was an excellent player
on the violin, too, Cecil — a very expert and,
I believe, fine player.'

Ah, you knew that, of course ? You
must have heard him play ? ' exclaimed
Cecil.

I used to hear him a good deal at Wilmoteses,'

said Mr. Fielding, ' in the summertime,
when he was down from college. He
was fond of practising in the tower room late
at night, and my bedroom was just under
him. Oh, well — he was a young man, and he
didn't consider, of course, but — he sometimes
made it rather difficult for me to sleep.'

Poor uncle ! ' exclaimed Cecil laughing,
that was too bad ! I should think those
experiences must have given you enough of
the fiddle for the rest of your life.'

Oh, I don't know ; I would not exactly
say that,' murmured the Eector courteously.

But as Cecil took up his case from the
table, and stowed it away in a corner of the
room, something like a look of satisfaction
and relief dawned on his gentle face.

The clouds had gathered during the afternoon,
and it was raining by the time they
rose from tea.

I am afraid we shall have no walk this

evening,' Cecil said regretfully to Diana ; and
she assented with cheerfulness.

Clearly not,' she said ; ' we shall have to
stay indoors. And we must do something for
the children. Shall we play Dumcrambo ? '

I don't know what that is,' replied Cecil.

But he listened to her description of it with
much seriousness, and presently, with a very
lively boyish interest, looked eagerly on while
she and Milly and Dick went through a series
of the histrionic antics that compose the
game.

It's very amusing,' he said to Susan, after
a time, with quite a beaming face. ' And how
cleverly they do it ! Diana is splendid.'

You will have to play presently,' returned
Susan ; and, though he exclaimed at
the moment that he could not, declaring that
he had never acted anything in his life, yet in
ten minutes more he found himself capering
over the floor at Diana's side, and, what was

stranger still, enjoying his performances with
shouts of laughter.

Of course, however, it was her spirit and
not his that made the game go so briskly.

'It wouldn't be worth playing without
you,' he said to her when they had stopped,
exhausted, at last. ' I suppose, if you tried,
you could really act anything ? '

But to this inquiry she only made some
jesting answer.

'We have all our separate gifts,' she
said. ' Yours is for playing the violin, and
mine, you see, for playing Dumcrambo. I
forget what your views are on the subject
of woman's rights, but I should think you
approved of women taking a modest place —
don't you ? Xow I hardly suppose even the
strictest Tory would think I stepped out of my
place by playing Dumcrambo.'

What things you say ! ' cried Cecil to
this speech in a grieved tone. ' Sometimes I

almost think you would jest — and be bitter —
if you were dying.'

Do you ? ' answered the girl with a
curious mockery in her voice. ' Well, when
one is bothered, is it not better to laugh than
to cry ? Jests cover so many things. They
are as good as blinds drawn down over
windows.'

Cousin, I don't know what you mean.'

But Diana only laughed, and made no
effort to explain her meaning.

May I come again tomorrow morning ? '
he presently asked her meekly, before he took
his departure. The rain had ceased, and he
had gone out with her to the porch to look
at the night. ' May I come ? ' he asked, looking
at her wistfully.

Oh, well — ' she said, and then she paused.
She did not want to hurt his feelings, but it
seemed to her that she had seen a great deal
of him during this day that was ending now.

I was thinking,' she went on after a
moment, ' that if you liked to take a ride
and see something of the country round they
could let you have a horse at the Crown.'

Oh ! ' said Cecil. The prospect of this
entertainment did not seem to enchant him.
But after a moment he was struck with an
idea.

Would you come too ? ' he demanded
eagerly.

No, — shave no horse,' she said.

And then Cecil answered ' Oh ! ' again,
dejectedly, and stood silent, abstractedly
plucking at the young spring leaves that
were bursting on the honeysuckle round the
porch.

Please don't do that ! ' said Diana impatiently,
after a little pause.

Oh, I beg your pardon ! I didn't know I
was doing it,' exclaimed Cecil penitently. ' Of
course I will take a ride, if you say I ought.'

I didn't say that you ought she retorted.
I merely suggested that you might. You
can take a walk, if you like that better. All
that I mean is that I have things I want todo
tomorrow morning.'

Oh, then of course — ' murmured Cecil submissively.
And there followed a little pause,
during which the boy looked wistfully
straight before him into the night.

And what about the afternoon ? ' he
asked at last, turning suddenly to her with a
timid glance.

Well, I suppose you will be here in the
afternoon, — won't you ? ' she answered.

I should like to be.'

I took that for granted,' she said.

And then his mobile girlish lips smiled
with a sudden look of content, and, 'If I
weren't to be with you for at any rate half
the day, I might as well go away at once,' he
murmured half aloud.

Of course you came here to see us ; we
all understand that,' she answered composedly,
after a little consideration.

I came to see you' he corrected her
quickly.

I would rather that you took my way of
putting it,' she gravely returned.

Oh, cousin,' he exclaimed supplicatingly,
don't say that ! '

But at this moment the parlour door
opened, and the Eector came forward and
put his head out into the porch.

'What of the night? Is it fine, Di? ' he
asked ; and he came and joined them, and
they began to talk of the weather and the
promise for the coming day.

VOL. III.

lANA had said no more than the
truth when she had told Cecil that
she was bothered, for a state of
indecision is one of the most trying of mental
conditions, and she was in a state of indecision
so great that her temper was almost
fatally upset by it. She did not want to
marry Cecil ; of that one fact she was very
sure ; but do what she would she could not
make up her mind as to whether she ought to
marry him or not. There was everything to be
said in favour of her acceptance of him, except
the one thing that outweighed all the rest.

The young man is improved, I think, my
dear,' the Eector said tentatively to her on
that morning when she had ordered Cecil not
to come to the house ; and Diana, who was
spending these hours of relief from him in
the peace of her father's study, assented in a
vague, half-hearted way.

Is he ? Well, yes, I dare say he is,' she
said. ' He is very amiable, — too amiable ; and
Susan Hies him.'

He certainly makes himself pleasant in
the house.'

Oh yes.'

And he is a good lad, I think.'

He is very well-meaning, and harmless.
I don't know exactly how much claim people
who are well-meaning and harmless have to
be called good.'

Oh, he is perhaps more than that, my
dear. I think so, — I hope so. As you say,
Susan likes him wonderfully ; and he is very

I 2

good-natured with the children — very good-natured,
I must confess.'

Yes, he has plenty of good nature, and I
don't know that he has any vices. I think if
one held him in a string, he would go very
straight all his life.'

She made this answer in a tired expressionless
way, with her head bent over
some work that lay upon her knees ; but a
few moments after she had spoken it she
looked up, and her eyes and her father's
met.

Di ? ' said the Eector questioningly.

Well, dear old dad ? ' she answered with
a half laugh.

And then she went to him, and took his
hand and kissed it.

You are bothered about me, I know, and
I am bothered about myself,' she said. ' What
shall we do with Cecil ? Shall we send him
away ? '

My dear, you must judge. How can I
take it upon me to advise you ? I — I don't
think you care for him, Di P '

I care for him in a way.'

But you don't want to marry him ? '

'That is the odd part of it. In one way
I do want to marry him, — because of what he
represents.'

I don't quite understand you, my
dear.'

Because of his money, papa.'

'But, my dearest, you mustn't marry him
for his money.'

I should never marry him for anything
else. At least, it would be partly for his
money, and partly because I am sorry for
him.'

Di, I do not think that a marriage for
such reasons would be right.'

Well, I have no others.'

Then, what are you going to do ? '

I suppose I must tell him to go away :
that is the only alternative, isn't it ? '

I imagine so.'

Only the difficulty is that one isn't quite
sure. Perhaps if I send him away now, by
this time next year I shall be sorry, — and
then it will be too late ! '

I don't know that it will be too late, Di.
If he is as sincerely attached to you as he

certainly seems to be Oh ! ' piteously,

don't, my dear ! '

For Diana had suddenly nipped his ear,
and the Eector had jumped in his seat.

Well, why do you talk such nonsense ? '
she said. ' Do you think I should be likely
to marry him after the legacy was lost ? '

Ah, to be sure,' said the Eector simply.
I had forgotten that. Then your pity for
him, I suppose, Di, does not amount to very
much ? '

No,' she assented after a moment or two,

gravely and colouring a little, ' I don't suppose

it does. At least Ah, father,' she cried

suddenly, ' I am ill at ease, and, decide as I
may, I shall not be able to satisfy myself.
But you can't help me — nobody can help me, I
suppose. It will be a hard thing on the 16th
of next October — won't it ? — to see all that
money going to the winds ! '

My dear, don't think of it, — don't think
of it. It is better not.'

It is very easy to say, '* Don't think of it."
You dear old father, I must think of it. Just
tell me one thing ' — very wistfully. ' K I end
by letting it all slip through my fingers, shall
you — shall you think me very selfish P '

God bless me, no ! ' cried the Eector.
Selfish ! Why, Di— Di— ! ' And he started
up and took her in his arms, for the girl
had burst suddenly into tears.

Oh, I am only a goose ! don't mind me,'
she ejaculated as soon as she could speak.

I don't know why I should cry. I have
nothing to cry about. It is only that stupid
Cecil. Let us go out somewhere and talk of
other things — shall we ? He will be coming
again immediately, you know ; and then I shall
have no more peace for the rest of the day.'

My dear,' said the Eector gravely, ' I
think you had better let him go ; indeed I
do.'

But Diana, with something that looked
almost like perversity, refused even yet to
commit herself so far as to assent to this.

I will see how I feel after another day
or so,' she continued to say. ' If I could but
marry him, it would be such a merciful thing
for us all. I will try again. I shan't succeed,
I know — that is the worst of it ; but if I don't
try all I can now I shall have a bad time of
it presently, when he is gone. Let me see !
What had I better set him to do this afternoon
? '

It was a beautiful spring day, the air mild,
the ground dry under foot. ' We might all
go into the woods primrose-gathering,' she
thought. ' He is sure to be pleased with
primrose-gathering ; it is such an Arcadian
entertainment ; and Susan must let the children
off from their lessons, so that they may
come too. I think that will do very nicely :
I don't know anything that would be better
than that.'

And so when Cecil came she informed
him of the amusement she had provided for
the afternoon, and the lad's face beamed with
delight. ' I should like it immensely,' he
said.

He had followed her advice, and had taken
a ride in the morning, but he had not cared
much — at least not very much — about it, he
told her meekly. In fact, he did not care for
riding alone.

You know you were always trying to

make me ride at Wilmotes by myself,' he reminded
her.

Yes, and very little reward,' she retorted,
I got for my pains. For my part, I think it
is a pity not to ride, when one can. I wish I
could, — and that I had a horse to ride on.'

'Ah, that would be delightful, for then
we could go together ! ' cried Cecil with a
joyful smile.

But he was no great horseman, and
their ramble in the woods, which came off
presently, pleased him probably more than
any equestrian excursion would have been
likely to do, even had he had Diana on horseback
also by his side.

A merry party of five they set off together,
the children in the highest spirits, and Cecil
to the full as happy as they. For Milly and
Kate and Dick were all beginning by this time
to lose their shyness with him, the Dumb
crambo of the night before having done much

to bring them to terms of friendliness, — not to
speak of Cecil's musical performances, which
had aroused in Dick a personal approval
amounting to enthusiasm.

They hung about him now, and chattered
to him, and challenged him to run races, and
recounted anecdotes to him of their various
individual experiences, with ever increasing
energy and warmth, until they reached the
wood. Their attentions were in fact so urgent
that Cecil had to resign himself an almost
hopeless victim to them — half liking perhaps
to find himself so unaccustomed an object of
interest, even though his newly achieved
popularity kept him for the moment from
Diana's side. He should have more to do
wither, he possibly reckoned, when they
reached the wood.

And indeed, when once in the wood, the
children dispersed themselves, and he found
himself left in possession of as much freedom

as he could wish. So, undisturbed except by
the more or less distant sound of their shrill,
youthful voices as they rambled in their
primrose hunt to and fro, he devoted himself
from this time forward to Diana, and had a
royal and delightful time of it. He kept
close to her, and they picked their primroses
together ; he sat with her on the trunks of
fallen trees, and listened to the thrushes
singing their spring songs overhead ; and he
talked to his heart's content.

It seemed to him almost the happiest
afternoon that he had ever spent. Even the
invasions that the children made of their
solitude every now and then did not disturb
him, for they never stayed more than a few
minutes when they came. Diana was kind to
him ; the sun shone ; the air was soft and
warm ; there was something idyllic in the
whole scene — something that appealed immensely

to the innocent, receptive, sympathetic
nature of the lad.

'I shall remember this day as long as I
live,' he said once to Diana.

They stayed in the wood till the slanting
shadows told them that the evening was
coming on. Perhaps Diana was not sorry
when it grew time for them to turn their
faces homewards ; and yet of such contradictory
elements are we composed that even
she too in a way had enjoyed her afternoon's
entertainment, and been merry and natural
over it. The lad was so harmless that it was
indeed difficult not to have a kindly feeling
towards him ; he was so kindly and boyish ;
he meant so little ill to anyone.

I believe,' thought Diana to herself as
she walked home, ' that I could almost be
fond of him, if only he cared nothing about
me. If only there were somebody else here

for him to make love to, I can almost believe
that I might get to think him charming, in a
weak, masculine kind of way ; especially if
I were devoted to music'

But, as she was not devoted to music, she
slipped away after they had got back to the
house and had had tea, and left Cecil for a
good while in Dick's keeping.

As for Dick, he wanted no greater enjoyment
than to sit and listen to the young man's
playing. What soon wearied Diana lifted
the little lad into a seventh heaven.

'Oh, I wish you lived here ! ' he exclaimed
once with a sigh of longing ; and
poor Cecil gave one of his sweet womanish
smiles, and murmured fervently in response
' I wish I did.'

Yet perhaps he almost knew that if he
lived with Diana, life for him would be something
very far removed from a bed of roses ;
for she was so irresistible to him, and yet she

was at times almost so terrible to him too ;
so strong, so cruel, so hard.

I don't know how we should get on
together,' he had even got the length at
moments of thinking to himself ; even while
he would still have been ready to follow her
blindly, like her shadow, wherever she went.

He followed her to-night, for example, till
she turned upon him. She had been very
kind to him during the afternoon — perhaps
considering that, having organised their expedition,
it behoved her to make it pleasant
to him ; but when the afternoon was over,
possibly she felt that for that day she had
done all that duty required from her ; and
when the boy, having played to Dick and
put his violin away, went searching about
the place for her, and, finding her neither in
the garden nor in the parlour, ventured at
last to steal to the study window, and peep
in, her temper flamed up, and he got a reception

that made him retreat far faster than
he had come.

For she was sitting with her father (' I have
done my duty, dad, and now I have earned a
rest,' she had said to the Eector as she came
after tea into his room), and she was finding
the repose and quiet of her retirement very
pleasant — safe haven as it was (so she considered)
from the vexations and perplexities
of the outside world. She was therefore in
no mood to welcome the sight of Cecil's
inquiring face as it darkened the windowpane
; and in fact, instead of welcoming it, she
started up as it appeared, with the colour
springing to her face, and confronted the
young man like an irate goddess.

What is it ? ' she asked sharply, deigning
no more courteous address.

'Oh, I was only — only looking for you,'
he stammered, frightened, and backing confusedly.


She unfastened the window, and threw it
open.

*Di, my dear! — Di, don't say anything!'
the Eector entreated hurriedly below his
breath.

But he might as soon have entreated the
winds. Without paying the slightest regard
to him she stood before the open window,
and looked Cecil fall in the face.

Perhaps I never happened to mention it ;
but will you please to remember in future,'
she said with a smile about as warm as
an icicle, ' that, when I come here, I come
to be alone with papa ? I dare say you
will see me again presently ; and I dare say
that what you want to say to me will keep
till then.'

And with that she closed the window,
without waiting even to hear the poor young
fellow's bewildered apology, and turning

VOL. III. K

round, with, it must be confessed, a very
conscious face, met the Eector's eye.

'My dear, you are too hasty — indeed you
are too hasty,' he said in a troubled way.
The lad meant no harm.'

He made me angry,' she answered,
wrathful still — ' and I won't have him coming
here. It is bad enough to come upon him
everywhere else about the place. What
business had he to come here — to a private
room ? '

He did not look upon it as private ; you
may be sure he did not, Hi.'

He will in future,' she answered, almost
with a chuckle ; and for the next few minutes
at least she was not repentant.

But after that — well, after that she began
to show certain signs of being not quite at
ease. She sighed, she knitted her brows, she
closed her book. Presently she rose up
abruptly, with an odd look on her face.

I suppose I must go and make it up with
him,' she said at last, abruptly.

'I think you had better.' The poor
Rector still looked uneasy. ' The lad is very
sensitive, Di.'

Oh yes,' she assented impatiently, ' he is
horribly sensitive. Well — I will go and
humble myself.'

And she went, more conscious perhaps in
her heart than she would allow that she had
lost her temper, and that it behoved her to
make her cousin some amends.

She found him wandering in the garden
by himself, for the children's bedtime had
come, and they and Susan had all departed
upstairs.

And so everybody has left you — and I
have shut you out of the study — and we
have altogether treated you rather like
brutes,' she said coolly, and rather unwarrantably
too, as she approached him — for,

K 2

132 DIANA

in fact, nobody had ill-treated him except
herself.

Cecil, however, in his gratitude did not
make a note of this. He had turned a wistful
glance upon her as she drew nigh, but at
her address his colour rose, and —

Oh, don't say that ! ' he eagerly exclaimed.


'But I think I may as well say it,' she
persisted, ' for it will make me more comfortable.
You see I was cross, and of course
I had no right to be cross.'

'shad no right to come bothering you,'
he said gently.

No, that is true, too. I don't like people
to come after me when I am in the study.
But I might have told you that civilly,
oughtn't I? You see, I have such a hasty
temper. When people do things that I don't
like I always feel such a desire to strike them
(with my tongue, I mean, not with my fists).

I don't know,' thoughtfully, ' if I shall ever
mend ! '

So long as you are not angry with me
now, I — I don't mind,' said poor Cecil.

'Oh, I am not angry with you now,
certainly.'

And of course I will never do what I
did this evening again. I am so sorry I did
it,' pleaded the boy.

Oh, that is all right. You see,' said
Diana severely, ' the study is the single place
in which I never expect to be disturbed. I
go and rest there. I sometimes even go to
sleep.'

It was so stupid of me,' murmured
repentant Cecil.

Not at all. Don't give it another
thought.'

And then for ten minutes she was very
gracious to him as they strolled slowly towards
the house, and Cecil in his humility

thought probably that he was the only one
who had been at fault.

And yet perhaps m her heart the girl
knew that if her companion had not accepted
her half-jesting apology so meekly she would
have had more respect for him — she would
have thought him more of a man. 'He
would weary me to death with giving in tome,
if I had to live with him she often
thought impatiently in her heart.

The third day of Cecil's visit had come
to an end, and he had not as yet made
the faintest approach to any declaration of
the length of time that he intended to stay at
Hettlestowe. In fact, Diana had already
pretty well concluded that he had come to
the place with his mind a blank on that
point. ' And that makes it rather an awful
prospect,' she began to think.

Yet, strange to say, the presence of the
lad actually gave her at times a sense of

pleasure. He worried her, but still she had
a certain pitying liking for him ; he perplexed
her, but she was not quite sure but that a
state of perplexity was to be preferred to a
state of dulness. Lie had been very dull
before he came, and his visit, viewed in the
light of the issues it involved, was at any rate
an event calculated to rouse her out of that
condition.

Your cousin does not seem to be in
any hurry to go away. Do you think,
my dear, that he has any — plans ? ' the
Eector mildly asked her one day, dien a
week had passed, and Cecil was still in the
place. ' I don't, of course, want to shorten
his visit."

Someone will have to shorten it,' she
interrupted briefly.

And then she sighed, with a certain impatience,
for she was quite aware that if
Cecil were to be sent away from Hettlestowe

it was she who would have to send him, and
perhaps it seemed for the moment hard to
Tier that the burden of what was so disagreeable
to do should be left to fall wholly
on her shoulders.

Still, those who elect to rule must take
the bitter as well as the sweet of the hne
of life that they select for themselves, and
Diana had chosen her 7'6le too long ago for
her to have any right to grumble at its
conditions now.

'Oh, I will speak to him soon,' she said
abruptly after a few moments' silence. ' It
hardly seems gracious to send guests away
when they come to stay with you, does it ?
Yet, if the guests won't go when they are left
to themselves ? Oh yes, I will speak to him in
another day or two ; there is nothing else to
be done that I can see.'

But she said this with an audible dejection
and reluctance in her tone that caught her

father's ear, and made the good man cough
uneasily, and feebly chafe his hands.

I wish I could help you. I wish I knew
what to suggest, my dear,' he murmured.

I don't see how you can suggest anything.
One must just do what has to be
done, and get through with it,' she rather
sadly answered. ' But I will wait another
day or two,' she repeated suddenly. * The
poor lad is enjoying himself so much.'

And in truth Cecil, with his boyish
nature, was enjoying himself very much
indeed. There was no one in the house
who had not by this time got to like the
amiable, gentlemanly, inoffensive young
fellow. Susan regarded him with almost
motherly affection ; the children had constituted
him their most approved playfellow ;
even the Eector had spoken of him more
than once as ' a good lad — a kindly lad.'
It was no wonder if the boy, so little used

till now to the warmth and pleasantness of
any family life, should find it all a kind of
heaven — even in spite of the slight doses
of bitterness (which were perhaps no more
than the wholesome bitterness of a tonic
medicine) that Diana from time to time
mixed with its sweetness, and forced him
to swallow. Possibly as the days went on
he had even begun to wonder whether he
might not stay on indefinitely in his present
quarters, living this happy life, and trying
to woo Diana. If he could but do this ! he
might have thought. But alas, that our
vague, pleasant dreams so often melt away
like a vapour !

'I say — you're not going off anywhere,
are you ? ' Dick demanded abruptly of him
one afternoon, and when Cecil, suddenly self-conscious,
answered hesitatingly, ' N-o.
What made you think I was ? ' Dick in his

childish simplicity blurted out something that
he had not been intended to repeat.

Oh, I only asked because I heard them
talking of it,' he confessed a little sheepishly.
Mother said something about you this morning.
Mother's awfully fond of you, and she
said it was so nice to have you here ; and
then Di put in her oar.'

'And what did she say?' asked Cecil
hurriedly, unable to restrain his curiosity.

Dick looked rather confused, and hesitated
a moment. ' Well, she said — oh, I
thought she was rather nasty,' he vaguely
answered after that.

Poor Cecil grew red, and for a second or
two stood in silence ; then very gently —

Tell me what it was, Dick ? ' he almost
pleaded. ' I don't think she would mind ;
just let me hear.'

And then Dick, conscious perhaps that

he had got himself into a corner, came out
reluctantly with her response.

Oh, she only said — that mother had
better make much of you, for you wouldn't
be here much longer. But that's nonsense,
you know ! ' added the boy vehemently, ' for
you must surely know what you're going
to do yourself better than Di does. Di is
awfully fond of meddling in other people's
affairs.'

You mustn't say that ; don't say that,
Dick,' answered poor Cecil quietly.

The colour was still in his face ; but he
looked suddenly very miserable — so miserable
that Dick stared at him.

I didn't think you would have minded.
I would never have said a word if I had
supposed you would. It was a shame of Di ! '
he exclaimed, his childish face growing hot
too. ' But I made up my mind that I would
ask you — for I was sure it was rubbish ! ' he

added, bringing out these last words triumphantly.


To Cecil's heart, however, they brought no
sense of triumph, nor even of consolation.
He had intended to stay in this place, it was
true ; but he. knew that Diana had but to say
one word to turn him out of it. And she
meant to say that word, it seemed ; that was
the conclusion he came to from Dick's unwary
revelation.

Throughout this day the poor young
fellow remained much depressed. He even
kept out of Diana's way, or at least avoided
any occasion of being alone with her — in such
mortal dread was he that she should give
him his marching orders — until his conduct
in this respect, being utterly unlike what his
conduct on all past occasions had been,
caught her attention and much perplexed
her. He even conducted himself towards
her, unconsciously, with a kind of dog-Uke

deprecation, and felt a shudder run down his
back when he once or twice perceived her eyes
turn meditatively upon him. It was coming !
he thought in terror. But this day at least
reached its close, and the thing he dreaded
did not come.

If, however, he escaped to day, on the
following day, when he was perhaps less
prepared for it, the blow fell.

He had been playing in the afternoon
rather sadly with the children in the garden,
till a call reached them from Susan to
come indoors and learn their lessons, upon
which they reluctantly left him seated alone
on the bench upon the lawn where they
had all been chattering together. They had
been telling stories to him (he was not good
at story-telling himself), and when they were
swept off he remained for a few minutes
where they had left him, till suddenly his
defenceless position struck him with alarm,

and he had just jumped to his feet, with
the intention of retiring to some less exposed
portion of the garden, and hiding
himself there from Diana, when his heart
jumped into his mouth, for he saw her
appearing round the corner of the house,
and in another moment perceived that it washer
scheme to make straight for him.

For an instant the blood flew to the
conscious young man's face ; but retreat now
was hopeless ; so he stood still, not advancing
to meet her, but merely keeping his
ground and letting her come deliberate! v
towards him — which she did, with some
little surprise at his reception of her, perhaps.


She had her thimble on her finger, and a
bundle in her arms of what looked like material
for work.

I thought I would bring my serving out
here for a little,' she remarked quietly, as she

approached him. ' But if you have had
enough of the garden, don't stay.'

Oh — mumble — mumble — mumble,' murmured
Cecil quite unintelligibly, and dropped
down into his place again. What else could
he do ?

It is such a lovely day I ' she said.

Oh yes — I suppose so,' he answered, and
then sat silent with his eyes turned away.

She set her work in order and began to
stitch at it. She glanced once or twice at
her companion with something of a puzzled
look ; she sewed for five minutes ; then she
laid her hands down deliberately on her lap
and —

Cecil,' she said abruptly, ' I wish I could
get you to take some advice from me.'

Advice ? ' he echoed hurriedly. He
turned round in a startled way. ' If you
give me advice, I suppose I shall take it.
At least, that is ' he said.

Well, I want to talk to you a little about
what you are going to do.'

The poor boy turned a pathetic look upon
her. The blood rushed to his face a^rain.

Ah, that was what I was expecting I ' he
exclaimed in a boyish voice that had a
pitiful tremor in it.

Was it ? ' she asked, surprised. ' Then
that accounts, perhaps ' — and she broke off
with a sudden laugh. ' Do you know I
haven't been able to make out what has been
the matter with you. What made you suppose
that I was going to give you advice ? '

Oh, nothing,' said Cecil sheepishly. ' At
least — oh, I don't know — it was only Dick.'

Dick ! ' she said, perplexed. ' Much
Dick could know about it ! '

He did know,' said Cecil sadly. ' He
heard you speaking of it to jVIrs. Fielding.'

I never opened my Hps about it to Mrs.
Fielding. You're on a wrong tack, Cecil.

VOL. III. L

However,' she added abruptly, 'I know
what you mean too, and I allow that I was
coming to that as well, though it was not
what I was going to say first. When I told
you that I wanted to get you to take some
advice from me, I meant that I wished you
would consider a plan I have been turning
over in my mind.'

What kind of plan ? ' asked the boy
eagerly.

Well, it seems to me, you know, that
your life at Wilmotes is very unsatisfactory.'

Unsatisfactory ! ' he cried ; ' I should
think it was !

Yes, and I used to believe that it would
be a good thing if you could go to college ;
but I doubt that now. I have been thinking
over it a great deal, and it begins to seem tome
that it might do you more good if you
were to travel.'

Cecil looked on the ground ; he made

no answer for a few moments ; then he raised
his head suddenly again, his boyish face all
alight.

I would travel anywhere,' he said tremulously.
' I would go wherever you liked —
vi'iih you.'

But you can't go with me.'

The colour had come to Diana's cheek.
too. She spoke sharply, with a sort of quick
impatience, and yet with something like pity
as well in her tone and in her eyes.

Oh, don't say that ! I can't go with you
at this moment, I know. If you like, I will
go by myself for two or three months — and
then come back — before October,' he cried in
little jerks.

But, Cecil,' she said gently, and then she
stopped : even to herself for a few moments
the words she wanted to say seemed almost
too hard to utter ; ' you mustn't come back
here again before October.'

L 2

Oh, don't say that ! Diana, don't say
that ! ' he broke out.

He had been nervous and hesitating in his
speech till now ; but suddenly his timidity
seemed to leave him as he gave this cry.
He turned to her with even a certain force in
his face ; into his heart there came a momentary
heat of courage.

You are not going to send me away for
good ? ' he entreated. ' You can't do it ! I
don't believe you have the right ! You can't
reject me out and out till the year has ended.'

I — cant ? ' she repeated slowly. She
looked at him, and he began to tremble. ' I
can reject you at any moment that I please,'
she said with emphasis. ' What in the world
is there to prevent me ? Have I not in fact
rejected you already .^ Did I not do it six
months ago at Wilmotes ? '

Oh, but surely,' murmured poor Cecil
boyishly, ' that didn't count ? '

'1 beg your pardon! It did count-of
course,' Diana loftily replied. 'When you
wrote to say that you were coming here just
now I thought it extremely unwise of you —
but what could I do ? You never said why'
you were coming, and I had no right to
assume what object your visit had — though
I don't mean to say that I did not guess it.
Only, whatever I guessed, I could do nothing.
And, Cecil,' said the girl with sudden kindness.
I was glad too at the prospect of seeing 3'ou.
I was glad when you came. Don't think that
it has not been a pleasure to have you here.
You are the only cousin, you know, that I
have ever had, and I want us to keep friends.
Believe me when I sav that it would arrive
me to the heart if you should cease to like
me, or to trust in my interest in you, and my
affection for you.'

Oh, Diana ! ' said the lad.

A soft girlish flush had come to his face as

she spoke ; his eyes were resting on her,
suffused with mingled pain and pleasure.
Oh, you are so good ! ' he murmured. ' I
think sou are giving me all that I deserve,
and more ; and yet — oh, if you could but
give me something more still ! '

But I can't,' she said gravely.

And then he made no answer, and they
both sat silent, till after a minute or two had
passed —

There is really nothing more to say,' she
began again abruptly, ' but yet, because this
is to be the end of it, you know ' (she rather
faltered over this clause), ' I should like to
add one other word. I should like you to
understand that I would have agreed to marry
you, if I could — if I could have thought it
right, I mean — and that I have tried very
hard to think it right. For you know, Cecil,
I should have been the gainer in many ways.
I tell you plainly I have longed to secure that

money that grandpa left to me ; I can't
think even yet without a pang that it will
never be mine now, and that I shall never
have it in my power to do any good to my
people here with it. I have sometimes almost
persuaded myself that I ought to marry you
just that I might get possession of it.'

And why shouldn't you ? ' he broke out
eagerly.

But she only laughed a little. ' Simply
because my conscience won't let me.' she
said. ' I was coming to that. You see, I
have very little to say for myself. It seems
pretty much to amount to this — that I would
do wrong if I could.'

But it wouldn't be wrong ! ' he exclaimed.
Ah, Diana, it wouldn't ! I would try so
hard to make you happy. I know I am next
to no good,' cried the poor foolish fellow,
^ but at least you could do anything with me
that you liked, and I should ask so little from

you. I should be content with so Httle. You
would be mistress of Wilmotes — and of everything.'


But when lie lead got so far, Diana could
stand no more, and — ' Good gracious, Cecil,
don't draw such a dreadful picture ! ' she
broke in sharply. 'Do you suppose that you
tempt me by saying such things as these ? '
And to his alarm she sprang up with a sort of
fury, scattering her thimble, her scissors, her
cotton on the ground. ' See now what you
have made me do ! ' she ejaculated with reproachful
indignation.

I will pick them up ; I see them all,' said
poor Cecil, bewildered and wholly in the dark
as to what had occasioned this spirt of
temper, and he went down on the grass plot,
and gathered the various articles up.

Shall I put them on the seat ? ' he asked
timidly when he had collected them.

No,' she replied briefly, ' give them tome

here.' And she took tliera from him, and
placed them in a little heap in her lap (for she
had sat down again), and then when she had
done this she sighed, and — ' Xow, do let us
stop talking of this,' she said with decision.
We had far better talk of what I began about
at first. This other subject is ended now. —
Ah, Cecil ' — and all at once she broke off
again — ' don't think that I am hard ! '

But the lad suddenly put his arm across
his eyes — and Diana had a bad few moments
while she sat, not knowing what to say, and
only conscious in every nerve that he had
broken down like a child.

She sat for two or three minutes in
silence ; then (what better could she do?) she
returned again to what she had been beginning
to say.

I do seriously want you to consider this
idea of mine. You will think of it, Cecil,
won't you ? ' she gently asked. ' It would do

you so much good to travel, it seems to me,
and you would enjoy it so, after a time. Of
course I don't mean that you should go alone
that would be dreary ; but if you could get
some pleasant, cultivated companion — a sort
of tutor — some one to whom you could offer
an engagement, I mean — that would be best, I
am sure. You ought to have a really superior
man with you, from whom you could — well,
pick up a great deal, without perhaps actually
studying with him. Now, don't you think you
might like that ? '

He was sitting dejectedly beside her, with
his eyes upon the ground. At her appeal he
sighed.

Oh, I don't know,' he said wearily.

But I want you to consider it. / have
been considering it a great deal.'

I suppose you think it would get me out
of your way ? ' the boy said suddenly and
bitterly.

That is a nasty speech to make, as you
know,' Diana answered with anger. ' I must
think poorly indeed of you if I suppose that
you would persecute me unless I push you
half across Europe.'

I beg your pardon ! ' cried Cecil penitently.


You may well beg my pardon,' she
sharply answered.

And then she closed her lips, and after a
few moments he sighed again, and then he
gave an uneasy glance at her, and finally he
began to speak.

Of course I will travel if you advise me,'
he said humbly. ' It seems to me to matter
very little now what I do. But anything
would be better than stopping on at
Wilmotes.'

Well, yes, that is whit I think,' she assented.
' You oughtn't to be at Wilmotes till
you are more settled, and happier. I should

like you to talk to papa about going abroad
will you ? He went as travelling tutor once
himself, and I think he and his pupil hadn't a
bad lime of it. Let him talk the matter over
with you.'

But Cecil shook his head.

I shan't have much power of doing that
now,' he said lugubriously.

And then, when she seemed to hesitate
how to answer this remark, he glanced again
askance at her, and —

I suppose after this you mean me to go
out of the place at once, don't you ? ' he asked.

I don't know,' said the girl. She looked
uncertain ; she considered for a few moments.
I think that the time of your going is a
matter that you must settle for yourself,' she
finally remarked.

Poor Cecil's face lighted up at this with
sudden relief.

Do you — do you mean that you don't

order me to be off at once ? ' he cried almost
joyously. ' Oh, I thought that you meant to
pack me off this afternoon. How good you
are, cousin ! ' And he looked at her enthusiastically.


I don't want to " pack you off," if that is
how you like to put it, so long as you understand
me,' she answered, with a mixture of
seriousness and laughter.

Oh, I can't help understanding you,' he
said mournfully.

Then, I suppose, if you would care to
stay another day or two ' she said.

If I should care ! ' he ejaculated.

But there was already a new look in his
face ; his eyes had brightened again, his
womanish lips were curving into a smile.
Since two or three more days were yet to be
allowed him before he should be cast out
from paradise, had he not better enjoy them,
and defer his despair ? He did not exactly in

SO many words put his case to himself thus,
but in his boyish heart this was how he unconsciously
reasoned upon it.

Oh, I shall like so to stay — ju t a little
longer ! I have been so happy here ! ' he
murmured in a sort of exalted, purring way ;
and looking at him, in mute wonder, Diana
saw the joyful colour coming back into his
cheek.

He is very odd,' she thought to herself.

But she presently led the way back into
the house ; and in a couple of hours afterwards
Cecil was playing Dumcrambo, and
leaping over the parlour floor, with all the
ebullient merriment of a child.

;& :»sil^^:^j

.^\

CHAPTEE VI

she end had come to Cecil's hopes,
and yet, strange to say, he was not
unhappy during the brief remainder
of his stay at Hettlestowe. He exhibited,
indeed, during these final days considerable
ups and downs of spirits, but nevertheless on
the whole, in spite of the rather painful explanation
he had come to with Diana, he continued
to enjoy himself amazingly almost to
the end. The fact was that he was one of
those simple natures to whom the happy
present has the power to be almost all in all,
and the future, should that future be threatening,
hardly more than a distant cloud on

the horizon. So long as Cecil could behold
Diana, his heart sang.

But when at length the last day came, he,
and Diana too, had a bad time of it.

I don't know what I am to do. If it
weren't for this going abroad, I — I think I
should shoot myself,' he declared to her.

At this speech, however, she naturally
only laughed.

You are not in the least danger of
shooting yourself,' she said. ' You will do
much better than that. You will go to
Norway, and spend a very pleasant summer.'
And then, when his eyes shot out a mournful
reproach at her, she laughed again.

He had been talking to his uncle about
travelling, as she had advised him to do ; for,
without a struggle, he had meekly given in
his submission to her plan. If she told him
to do anything, of course he should do it, he
said ; and any mortal thing would be better

than staying on at Wilmotes. So he had
applied one evening to the Eector, and had
studied maps and routes with him, and talked
over the steps to be taken for securing a suitable
companion, all apparently with a most
natural and wholesome interest.

He seems to contemplate some — considerable
stay abroad, my dear ? ' Mr. Fielding
said to Diana with a little hesitation when
their consultation was over.

Upon which, ' I know that / contemplate
a considerable stay for him,' she answered
with alacrity.

And then, though he was perhaps a little
taken by surprise, the Eector quite involuntarily
began to beam, and rub his hands.

Indeed ? Upon my word ! And you really
think that he may be away ^ ' he said.

'For a year at least,' replied Diana
demurely.

Whereupon the Eector could control

VOL. III. M

himself no longer, but fairly chuckled outright.


My dear, I am very glad ; I am sure it
will be for the best,' he said joyously. 'A
most amiable, most Keble, young fellow, —
but so singularly boyish, and — and weak, for
this age, is he not ? I don't see — upon my
word, Di, I have never been able to see — how
you could make up your mind to receive
him as — ahem ! I mean — to marry him.'

No, nor I either,' she said quietly. ' Only,
you know,' she suddenly added, ' there has
always been that money. Fifty thousand
pounds ! Oh, dad, just think of it ! And
now I shall never have a shilling of it in my
lingers. I cant marry Cecil ; I have tried
hard, and I can't ; but I feel just as if I had
robbed you all ; and you, and Susan, and all
of us so in want of it ! '

But, Di, we are not in want of it ; we
might be none the happier if we had it,'

said the Eector. And lie rose up, and went
to her in his shabby coat, and put his arm
about her. ' My daring, are you not more
to me than untold riches ? ' he said. ' Do you
think I would not rather see you by my side
than have all the wealth of Croesus ? '

And then, though there were tears in
Diana's eyes, she smiled with a sort of warm

content. ' Perhaps, if I hadn't thought so '

she began, and broke off suddenly with a
tremor in her voice.

The same night when they went to their
room Mr. Fielding told his wife that Diana
had rejected Cecil, and at the news the kind
soul fairly wept with pity.

Oh, I am so sorry for him ! Poor boy,
poor boy, I am so sorry for him ! ' she kept
murmuring mournfully till the Eector fell
asleep ; and when he slept she lay silent,
thinking still of Cecil, but thinking a little

M 2

too of — what it was no longer any use to
think of.

'It would have been a comfort in someways,'
was what she thought, ' for she would
have given us the means to send Dick to a
good school, I know, — and they would all
have been often with her at Wilmotes, — and
altogether I feel as if, somehow, it would have
kept the whole of us up. But we can't help
it — we mustn't murmur, and oh ! I oughtn't
to think about anything except that poor lad.'

And then when Cecil came next day she
petted him, and made much of him, and
followed him with commiserating eyes, till
Diana got filled with wrath at her, almost to
exploding. She forced herself, however, to
hold her tongue, and Susan held hers too.
Susan would perhaps have Heed to talk, and
to plead Cecil's cause with her ; but happily
there were occasions (and this was one of
them) when the bonds of a wise prudence

instinctively kept Mrs. Fielding from meddling
with her stepdaughter.

On this last evening even the children saw
that Cecil was depressed, and gazed at him,
in that condition of mind, curiously.

Cousin Cecil seems awfully sorry to go
away,' Kate said to her mother.

/ think he's sorry to go away from Di,'
said sharp-witted Milly.

But Dick treated this remark with contempt.


He doesn't care a bit more for Di than
for anybody else,' he declared. ' It isn't
likely, when she never listens to his playing.
I say, mother, he says he wants me to go and
see him at Wilmotes some day.'

'Does he, my daring?' cried Susan with
delight. ' How kind of him ! isn't it ? You
would like that, Dick ? '

Oh yes,' said Dick, but with manly indifference,
' I should like it. I dare say it

would be very jolly. But I don't believe he's
asked Di.'

Well, perhaps not : but that's another

thing, Dick,' said his mother. ' You see '

And then, not knowing how to pursue her
explanation, she wisely made a rapid diversion,
and began to speak of something else.
And Dick went his way, happy in the conviction
that he was Cecil's first favourite.

He got Cecil to play him some parting
strains upon his violin presently, but the
performance was so mournful that it almost
brought the tears to Dick's eyes.

I say, don't play if you'd rather not,'
he exclaimed after a little while, feeling extremely
uncomfortable.

Cecil, however, replied with a faint smile
that it was rather a pleasure to him than
otherwise, and continued to play lugubriously,
till, to Dick's relief, Diana came into the room,
and stood listening with so unsympathetic a

look upon her face that, confused a little,
the young man after a few minutes concluded
his wailing performance in rather a hurried
way, upon which she remarked abruptly —

'That was a singularly doleful piece of
music. What in the world was it?' and
brought the colour to poor Cecil's face.

Oh, it was nothing ; I was only improvising,'
he answered shyly.

'Well, it sounded dreadful,' she replied
with candour. ' But I wish you would play
something else now, for I have come to hear
you for a Httle, and I don't like music of
that dismal sort, — especially when it is all out
of your own head. I should like you to play
something of Handel, or Beethoven.'

So then, with a sigh, Cecil pulled himself together,
and, after a little sad preluding, gilded
into a major key, and into a gavotte of Handel's,
and it was amazing to see in a little while how
not only Dick but he himself revived.

That is music worth listening to,' Diana
said cheerily at the end of half an hour, and
the lad looked at her with a grateful light in
his eyes.

Oh yes — I know it is always foolish to
play weak things ; but when one feels weak

and stupid oneself ' he began to murmur

half aloud.

'That is exactly the time when you
should indulge least in weak amusements,'
she answered.

And then he merely sighed, and proceeded
to put his violin away.

After this performance he was rather
happier for an hour or so ; but as the evening
advanced his spirits drooped again, and
from that time onwards sank steadily till they
reached the soles of his boots. Poor Susan,
with much labour, had prepared a dainty
farewell feast for him, but he ate it, unconscious
of what he was consuming. He

wandered about the garden, with such members
of the household in turn as would wander
with him, till nightfall, and after that sat
dejected and almost silent in the parlour.
The children went to bed, and the clock
struck ten, and he still had not risen from
his chair.

But when a few minutes had passed after
it had struck ten, Diana at last rose from
hers. She had been sewing, and she put
down her work.

It is getting late. You ought to go,
Cecil,' she said, in her direct way. ' I will
walk down with you to the gate.'

And she went into the hall to get a wrap,
while he made his adieux to Susan (considering
perhaps for her temper's sake that this
was an act of which she had better not be a
witness) ; then she opened the door and
waited, and in a few moments the Eector and
Cecil came out and joined her.

It was a clear starry night, and they all
stood for a minute together on the threshold
before Mr. Fielding put out his hand.

Well, good-bye, my boy. We have been
glad to see you,' he simply said ; and in
another moment or two the young man
and Diana were walking alone down the
garden path.

It was very kind of you to do this. I
shouldn't have dared to ask it from you,' he
said tremulously, after they had taken a few
steps in silence.

'You won't thank me for it in another
minute,' she answered, with an involuntary
half laugh ; ' for I have only done it because
I want to say something to you that you won't
like. I am always saying things to you that
you don't like ; I seem to have done it from
the first, and now I am afraid I am going to
end as I began. But I can't help it, Cecil ! '
she exclaimed quickly ' Wel, what I mean to

say now is, that the first thing you will have todo
as soon as your back is turned, is to set
yourself to get over this, with all the courage
that you can.'

Oh, Diana ! ' groaned the lad. He
looked up at her piteously. ' Oh, cousin,' he
almost gasped, ' I thought you would let me
come again ? '

What in the world should I do that for ? '
she asked. ' Why, the time will be up now
in five and a half months '

But that doesn't matter,' interrupted the
boy eagerly. ' I mean, that wretched money
doesn't matter '

(' Good gracious ! ' Diana mentally exclaimed.)


I would wait as long as you liked — for
years, if you wished it ; and I would try so
to make myself more worthy of you. I
might improve, you know, — you might intime
like me better.'

But when it came to this she made a
gesture of unendurable impatience.

Oh, please don't talk like that ! I can't
stand it ! ' she broke out. ' Did I ever say
that you weren't worthy of me ? For goodness'
sake, Cecil, be a man, and don't grovel
in this way — before me or anybody ! '

Grovel ! ' he merely echoed reproachfully,
and gave her one look, and then turned
his face away.

And then Diana bit her lip, and mentally
whipped herself, and sighed audibly.

Why do you make me say things I
shouldn't ? ' she exclaimed after a minute.
I like you so much ; but I do so hate to
see you roll yourself in the dust. You don't
know — oh, you don't know what a thing it
would be for you if you would bear yourself
gallantly ! Of course I know that humility
is one of the cardinal virtues, but somehow
there are some sorts of humility ' And

then she stopped suddenly again, all at once
conscious that she was only making bad
worse.

I know I can never please you,' poor
Cecil said despairingly after a pause. 'I
never have done it, and I suppose I never
shall do it now. — Well, I mustn't keep you
any longer, must I ? ' and he looked with his
wistful eyes into lier face, and moved his
hand towards hers as it rested on the top
bar of the garden gate — for it was at the
gate that they were standing now — with a
pitiful gesture.

But she merely said carelessly : ' It is not
you who are keeping me ; it is I who am
staying ; ' and she took no notice of his hand ;
so he, perhaps not reluctantly, slid it
away again. ' I am staying,' she went on,
because you haven't told me yet that you
will try to do what I have asked you, and
I mean to make you tell me that you will

before you go. Xow do it, Cecil. If you
care to have me think well of you, you must
do it.'

But I don't know clearly what it is you
want,' he expostulated feebly.

Now, that is absurd ! ' she exclaimed.
Have I not made it as clear as I can ? I
want you to tell me that you will do your
best to pull yourself together, and to accept
your disappointment, and to be a man
about it. Cecil,' said the girl with sudden
kindness, almost even with a little tremor
in her voice, — ' do what I ask you — for my
sake.'

There was a little silence : then he almost
groaned again, but after he had groaned he
said, with unutterable depression : ' I will
try.'

And you understand that you must both
try and go on trying ? '

Oh yes, — I suppose so.'

But his voice sounded very weak — so
weak that she sighed with impatience.

When you feel it hard I wish you would
imagine me at your elbow — with a lash ! '

He broke into an abrupt, nervous, involuntary
laugh.

'I shall be able to do that easily,' he
said.

Well, I think you will' And her voice
took an audible tone of satisfaction.

And now,' she said, after a brief silence,
' now I will go in. Good-bye, Cecil, — and
God bless you ! '

She gave him her hand, and with grave
and earnest kindness clasped his with a close,
warm clasp. The poor lad tried to speak his
farewell too, but the words died away, and
made only a gurgle in his throat. With a
trembling movement, like the groping of a
blind man, he attempted to find the latch of
the Httle gate, and could not, and it was she

who opened it for him, and closed it again
when he had passed through.

Good-bye ! ' he falteringly gasped out
then, and she repeated, ' Good-bye,' and
stood still for a moment or two as his hurried
steps went echoing down the road. And
then she turned back to the house gravely,
with perhaps even a little sense of loneliness
and loss.

I have kept you both up,' she merely
said quietly to her father and Susan, opening
the parlour door, and standing for a moment
with it in her hand ; ' but I couldn't help it.
I had to give a little parting address to him.
Are we going to bed now ? ' And she came
forward, and lighted the bedroom candles,
and bade the other two good-night.

And so that business is ended,' she said
to herself when she had shut herself into her
own room, ' and I suppose I have done right
oh yes, I know I have done right — but still,

somehow, doing right doesn't seem exactly,
and all at once, to bring its own reward. I
almost think that, if I weren't ashamed, I
could sit down and cry. Oh dear, there are
times, it begins to appear to me, when life
feels rather blank ! '

She went and stood before her glass, and
looked at herself steadily for a minute or so.

I am young enough yet. I don't think I
have begun to grow ugly — or fat,' she soliloquised,
' but still I think one bit of my life is
over. I have had my chance, and have
thrown it away, — and now I shall grow
gradually into an old maid.'

VOL. III. N

HE spring and summer had been
wont to be very joyous seasons
to Diana, but this particular spring
and summer passed, and brought little feeling
to her of her old content. The weather was
fine ; she could not reasonably find any fault
with it. All things at the Eectory went on
in their accustomed calm routine ; the village
retained its familiar characteristics, and
boasted still of as many old men and women
to be cheered by talk and snuff, of as many
children to be lectured and played with, of
as many wrong-doers to be shown the error

of their ways, as it had done in the days
when Diana had given her energies to parish
work, and had trod her little kingdom as
contented as a petty sovereign.

And yet, as the long bright days passed,
she was weary. The old spirit had gone from
her ; the heart had died out of her labours.
There was not a boy or girl, a man or woman
in the place who did not feel instinctively that
a change had come over ' Miss Di.'

She don't care about things as she did,'
they said. ' She's a deal easier to work
with, and yet she ain't the same comfort that
she was, for she used to have such a way
with her. You couldn't stand out against
it ; there wasn't one in the place as could.
She was like a puff o' wind ; she just took
you off your feet, and made you go the way
she blowed you. But now she's got wonderful
easy and dull like.'

This had come to be the sort of talk that

N 2

went on in the village, though, happily for
her own peace of mind, Diana did not know
it.

But, at least in her own heart, she knew
that much of her old spirit was gone, and
that life for the time had lost its savour.
Again, as she had done before Cecil's visit,
she fell into the habit of passing the greater
part of her time in her father's study. It
was so peaceful there, and she had lost her
energy and wanted peace ; her presence
brought such happiness to the Eector, and
she was glad to make him happy. He was,
perhaps, troubled a little at times that she
was so much quieter than she used to be,
yet it was difficult to be disturbed much at
a change that he found so admirable. • Very
few of us can keep our high spirits always,'
he argued with himself, ' and my dear girl is
three-ands twenty now, and she has had something
to sober her in the course of the last

year. I don't think she regrets what she has
done about Cecil.'

And, indeed, as to that matter, the Eector
was right. Diana did not regret what she
had done about Cecil ; but vet, perhaps,
there were some other things she regretted
some influences that had gone out of her
life, whose departure had left her with a sick
sense of loss.

For one thing, it tried her that she no
longer now heard anything from Wilmotes.
Poor Cecil had written one brief note after
his return home, but he had spoken in it
only of his gratitude for the kindness that
everyone at the Eectory had shown him ; and
again he had written a few weeks later, but
his second letter was merely to tell Diana
that he had done her bidding, and was on
the eve of starting for the Continent. He
had been in far too Byronic a frame of mind
to touch on any matter except what concerned

himself. He had not even mentioned
his mother, and Mrs. Eivers had ceased to
write to Diana altogether. She was offended
probably with the girl's rejection of her son,
and had left Diana's late letters unanswered.

I wish somebody would write to me.
I wish I had kept up a correspondence with
the Westbrook girls,' she thought often to
herself in these days. But she had not begun
by writing to the Westbrook girls, and she
was ashamed to begin to do it now.

So the slow months went on, and did
not bring Diana all the happiness or self-content
that she desired. It was still summer;
there was time yet for her, she sometimes
thought, to recall Cecil : but this reflection,
though she could not keep it from recurring,
only disturbed and fretted her, and made her
long the more for the time to pass quickly,
and for the probationary year to end. ' I

shall settle down better after that,' she always
told herself emphatically.

Once adam in early autumn the lad wrote
to her from abroad, begging her to let him
come once more to Hettlestowe and see her
before the year expired, and his earnest,
boyish, tender letter touched her (as she
thought) beyond reason. ' I could almost befool
enough to let him come,' she thought.
But, of course, she did not let him come.
Instead of that she wrote back a half-grave,
half-jesting answer to his eager epistle — an
answer into which, rousing herself for the
occasion, she threw much of her old life and
spirit (for she was too proud to care to let
him see that there was any change in her).
And then October came, and she told ofl'
the days to herself silently as they passed,
making no comment on them even to the
Rector — till at last the evening arrived of the

one that preceded the anniversary of her
grandfather's death.

On that night she said abruptly to her
father, ' Well, it is ended now, dear dad, for
good or evil. I should have a hard business
after this to get myself married within the
time. Are you glad or not, on the whole ?
1 am glad, I think, — though there are
times when I could almost cry. But, you
see, if it were all still to do, I suppose I
should have to do the same again.'

My dear,' replied the Eector with warmth,
I am sure you would have to do the same ;
and there is nothing to regret — nothing,
except that one is sorry for Cecil.'

I often think,' she said after a little
while, ' that if grandpa had let me have
the income from that money only for this one
year, what a thing it would have been for
us ! Just imagine it 1 Imagine it all, in a
heap of golden sovereigns, on the table here ! '

My darling said the Eector soothingly,
we had better not.'

At that she laughed, with a little crack in
her laughter, and suddenly put her arms about
his neck.

If I have done wrong, you must all try to
forgive me now,' she said.

There is nothing to forgive, Di, nothing,'
he replied. ' I go along with you, with all
my heart.'

And then for the moment she felt as
though the burden that was on her shoulders
was lightened.

But yet, though it seemed lightened for
the time, and though the pains of indecision,
at any rate, would now be hers no more,
somehow it was still not the old Diana who
rose next morning to begin a fresh year, buta
grave woman, with a face that had lost its
old life and fire.

My dear, she isn't happy ; I can't make

her out Mrs. Fielding said perplexedly to
her husband.

But the Eector only smiled at her
placidly.

She has been troubled about that moneys
and about Cecil. It is quite natural, Susan ;
I have been troubled about them myself,' he
simply said.

Oh, but,' replied Susan, ' it hasn't had
the same effect on you

And then the Eector meditated for a
moment or two, but after that —

I don't see that it has had an effect on
her to be altogether regretted,' he said. ' She
is much softened, it seems to me, of late ; less
lively perhaps, and at times, I allow, a little
uncertain ; but I find her a very delightful
companion. She has not, perhaps, quite her
old spirit.'

She has not her old spirit indeed,'
answered Mrs. Fielding with conviction.

Well, I allow that, my love; but it has
been a very trying year to her — a very trying
year : you must remember that.'

And then Susan agreed that it had
certainly been a trying year to her ; but still,
though she said no more to her husband, she
went away shaking her head. ' It seems tome,'
she said to herself, ' that there is something
in Di's mind that none of us understands.'


The summer was gone, and the autumn was
fast going too. ' Such a beautiful autumn ! '
someone said enthusiastically in Diana's hearing
one day. ' I don't know that I ever saw so
beautiful an autumn before in my life, — and so
bracing too ! It makes me feel able for anything.'


This speech was made before her, and, as
she listened to it, it gave her a curious feeling
of pain and self dissatisfaction. ' It is clear
to me that I want someone to shake me, and

make me ashamed of myself,' she inwardly
declared, with her old honesty and plain
speaking. * If other people find these days so
lovely, I ought to find them lovely too. If I
used to take pleasure in the things I did, I
ought to take pleasure in them now. I will
turn over a new leaf ; I must, or I shall get to
hate myself ; I will buckle on my armour, and
have a fight for it. Why, I ordered poor
Cecil to fight, and told him he would be a
coward if he didn't, and, good gracious ! I ama
worse coward and a worse fool than he.'

And as she said this she quickened her
steps, for she was walking at the moment from
the Eectory to the village, and came down the
road at such a pace that her colour glowed,
and an irreverent urchin playing in her path
rushed out of her way, and went home and
told his mother that he had met ' Miss Diana
in a tantrum.'

But the girl was not in a tantrum. She

was only making a fierce effort to shake herself
free from the languor and weariness that
had so long enslaved her. 'I am not going
to give way to this any longer ; I am going to
be myself again ; I am young,' she was thinking,
' and I can surely do it.' And so, with
the light of determination in her eyes, she
descended on the village, and made a couple
of sharp domiciliary visits, quite in her old
way, and had just turned from the door of the
second cottage she had entered, and taken six
steps towards a third, when she suddenly saw
a sight which so astonished her that she stood
stock still, believing for a few seconds that she
had been overtaken by some visual aberration.


Yet to no one else would what she had
seen appear a very startling vision, for the
objects on which she had fixed her eyes were
merely a pair of ordinary gentlemen composedly
standing by an open garden gate,

exchanging greetings as if in the act of parting.
A pair of gentlemen, too, who were both
known to her ; but this was the very point
that filled her with such extreme astonishment
; for, though one of them was only
Dr. Wheeler, a man whose appearance was
familiar to all who lived in or near to
Hettlestowe, yet the other (if she could believe
her senses) was Dr. Brydon.

She stood motionless and struck dumb
with amazement for about the space of five
seconds. The girl actually almost thought
that something had happened to her, that her
brain was conjuring up a vision in the open
street. It was 'only when she had begun to
advance again, and when the two men, seeing
her, raised their hats, that she was able to feel
assured that the figures before her were substantial
flesh and blood.

The spot where they stood was ofi* the
village street, so that she had not to pass

directly by them ; they were standing in front
of Mr. Wheeler's garden gate, which was in a
turning off the main street, and there Diana
left them, as, having returned their salutation
mechanically, she almost blindly went her
own way, walking simply without thought or
heed straight out of the village, and leaving
all the rest of the work that she had meant todo
in it clean forgotten and undone.

What in the world could Dr. Brydon be
doing in Hettlestowe ? Perhaps in all her life
before Diana had never felt so keen and almost
fierce an emotion of curiosity to know her
neighbour's business. What could have
brought him to this place ? What could he
have to do with Dr. Wheeler ? How could
she get to the bottom of this mystery ? It
was no concern of hers to get to the bottom
of it, but 3'et at this moment it seemed to her
the most prominent concern of her life.

Meanwhile the two men, still standing side

by side, had exchanged a remark about
her.

You know Miss Fielding ? ' Dr. Wheeler
said. ' Ah, to be sure you do ! She was a
patient of yours, I recollect. In that case,
one of us had better go after her, and stop
her from spreading reports.'

'Yes, I'll do that,' returned Dr. Brydon
briefly. And then he took leave of his companion,
and followed Diana.

With a curious feeling of tumultuous
satisfaction, the girl heard the pursuing steps
behind her. She heard them for a few
moments without ceasing her advance ; then
all at once she became ashamed of pretending
to be unconscious of them, and she stopped
suddenly and turned round.

I was so surprised just now to see you,'
she said, taking the initiative boldly, and
speaking first, as she put out her hand.

'Yes, I suppose you were,' he coolly

answered ; ' and, in fact, I am rather sorry that
you have seen me, because I have been
paying a visit to Dr. Wheeler half under the
rose. However, it doesn't matter, — for you
can keep a secret, I have no doubt.'

I should hope I could,' she said. But
she stared at him with considerable astonishment.


The fact is,' he went on, ' though I don't
want it talked of yet, that I am thinking of
taking Dr. Wheeler's practice.'

You ! ' she ejaculated, opening her eyes
wide in bewilderment.

Yes ; don't you think I am fit for it ? ' he
composedly inquired.

But she made no reply to this question.

I never heard that Dr. Wheeler was
going to retire ? ' she only said.

He isn't going to retire. He is thinking
of taking my practice at Wilmotes.'

VOL. III.

Good gracious ! But — but, Dr Brydon,
why ? '

'" Because I want to leave it. No,' with a
short laugh, ' not for the reason that you
think ; they are not hun ting me out. I could
stay peacefully and prosperously enough in
the place now if I liked ; for you don't know,
I dare say, that my sister has gone away from
me? '

Oh no, I didn't know that.'

Yes. she left me a few months ago ; I
wouldn't Lave let her go if I could have
helped it, but she got her head filled with
fancies, poor soul, that she was doing harm tome,
and fretted herself at last almost ito a
fever about it. So I had to give in to her,
and, perhaps, on the whole, she will be
happier now in her new Life. She has gone
to London, to be a nurse probationer.'

I knew nothing of all that. And Bertie ? '
asked Diana.

Oh, Bertie is settled in quite a new
sphere. Bertie has become a Bluecoat boy.'

She had walked on mechanically, and he
was walking with her. She felt wonderfully
bewildered, and even half incredulous, both
of what her eyes were seeing and of what her
ears were telling her.

And you are thinking of coming here ! '
she exclaimed after a little silence. ' I can't
understand it.'

Well, it is a pity that you have heard
anything about it,' he retorted, but in a half-amused
way. ' Dr. Wheeler and I had meant
to keep our intentions to ourselves for the
present. They are not ripe yet for public
discussion.'

Oh, of course I shall say nothing, except
may I tell my father? '

'Well, you can hardly help telling your
father. But don't let the matter go beyond
the Rectory. Not that for myself it signifies ;



but, you see, so long as the matter is undecided,
it will be best for Wheeler that
nothing should be known about it here.'

Oh, I understand, of course.'

That was why I came after you, — to
warn you.'

Oh — yes.' (But there was rather a lack
of hearty acquiescence in this response.)

And now I must be off, for I have to
catch my train.'

He stopped abruptly, and she stopped too.
But the next moment —

I haven't asked you a word about anybody,'
she said abruptly. ' Just wait one
moment. I never hear from Wilmotes now.
Is my aunt well, do you think ? '

I believe so. At any rate, I should
probably have heard if she were not. But
does she not write to you ? '

Not now. N-o, she has not written fora
good while.'

Well, your cousin, you know, is abroad.'

Oh yes, I know that.'

You had him here ' — abruptly — ' for a
lime ? '

Yes, for a long time. At least — oh no, it
wasn't very long,' said Diana, colouring suddenly.


Poor lad ! ' remarked Dr. Brydon with
composure, after which he put out his hand.
I shall probably see you again soon ; goodbye
now,' he merely said briefly ; and took off
his hat and left her. And then she walked back
to the Eectory in a novel and, even to herself,
almost unintelligible state of mind.

She went straight to her father's study
when she got home, and told her news to him.

Papa, such an odd thing has happened,'
she said. 'I have just met somebody from
Wilmotes.'

The Eector looked up from his desk, with
something almost like terror in his eyes.

God bless me ! — not — not — Cecil ? ' he
ejaculated.

Diana broke into an involuntary laugh.

Oh no, not Cecil. Not anybody at all
like Cecil,' she said. 'But I met Dr.
Brydon.'

Bless my heart ! ' said the Eector. ' Why,
what in the world ? '

Ah, I thought I should surprise you !
And now I am going to surprise you more.
He is thinking of exchanging practices with
Dr. Wheeler, and coming to live here.'

Mr. Fielding stared at her for a moment
incredulously ; then he mildly shook his
head.

My dear, I almost think there must be
some mistake about that. Dr. Wheeler's is a
a very inferior practice, I should imagine,
to Dr. Brydon's own '

Yes, but you see the people at Wilmotes
have been very nasty to him about his sister

and I think he has got tired of the place, and
no wonder.'

Still, Di, it is very odd in him to want to
come here ; I can't at all understand it.'

Do soli think it is so odd ? ' she asived.
hesitating a little. ' If he came, he would be
pretty sure to make his position better than Dr.
Wheeler's has been, — and he has some means
of his own. I don't know how much, but 1
know he has some. I think it would be
rather to our advantage, — wouldn't it ?

To our advantage — oh yes,' said the
Eector. 'But I can't understand how it would
be to his.'

No ; I don't quite know how it would be
to his,' she assented slowly. ' But of course
nothing may come of it ; that is what he said,
and so we are not to mention it to anybody.
I dare say nothing will come of it,' said the
girl abruptly, and turned away a minute
afterwards with a sudden gravity.

I wish I had not met him. I was rather
orlad to see him at the moment, but I would
give something not to have seen him now
she went out of the room thinking rather
drearily to herself. ' Upsetting things of this
sort fret one, — when they are so likely to end
in nothing. And this will end in nothing, I
suppose. But T am not going to think of it,
I am going to be busy. I must be busy,' she
emphatically said.

And indeed she proceeded forthwith to
summon back that new-born energy that she
had been in the act of exercising when she
encountered Dr. Brydon, and during the days
that followed after this one, she went about the
parish with, to outward appearance, all her
ancient vigour, — consoling, reproving, instructing
right and left, — till slatternly matrons
once more began to set their houses in order,
and idle boys and girls took to their heels when
they saw her coming down the village street.

It is such a crowd things to be active. I
don't think that anything but an active life
ever really suits me,' she began presently with
a certain complacency to say to herself.

But the Eector sighed a little. The
Rector enjoyed his daughter's society most
when the spirit of activity was not so rampant
in her.

CHAPTER VIII

They heard nothing more of Dr.
Brydon for a fortnight, but one day
at the fortnight's end, when Diana
was out scouring the parish, he called at the
Eectory and sat with her father in his study
for half an hour.

And the business seems really to be all
settled, my dear,' Mr. Fielding told her on
her return. ' He has arranged to come, he
says, after Christmas, and he seems perfectly
contented with what he has done. It still
seems, I must say, rather odd to me.'

Well, yes,' answered Diana slowly, ' I

think it is odd. Only he is rather a crotchety
man, and so I fancy he may be fond of tr^^ng
experiments.'

But what sort of experiments can he try
in a place like this ? ' asked the Eector in
mild surprise. ' If he is a man of that sort
he had better, I should say, settle himself in
some large town. However, Di, I am not
objecting to his coming, — far from it. I shall
enjoy his society. Without saying a word
against Wheeler, Dr. Brydon is a far more
cultivated, and I should think a far abler, man
than he.'

Yes, I suppose he is abler, ' Diana
assented coldly.

Oh, there is no doubt of it. I should
call Dr. Brydon a very agreeable and superior
man.'

H — m ! ' said Diana. ' Yes, he can be
agreeable when he likes, — but I don't get on
with him myself particularly well. I have

always found him very opinionative — and onesided
— and dictatorial.'

Dear me ! ' ejaculated the Rector, ' I
should hardly have supposed that, my dear.
A little dogmatic I can understand that he
may be — just a little. But it is difficult fora
robust man not to be slightly dogmatic
when he holds decided opinions.'

'Ah, that may be. But when the robust
man's opinions clash with one's own, then,'
said Diana dryly, ' they sometimes get to seem
to one pretty objectionable. However, I
have nothing very particular to say against
Dr. Brydon. I believe he is a good doctor,
and, as you say, he is very strong. I have
heard that the muscles of his arms are
something astonishing.'

Really ? ' said the Rector. But the
statement probably seemed to him irrelevant,
and he received it with only a faint show of
interest. 'Ah, — very probably. He certainly

looks muscular enough,' was all he murmured.
He asked for you, by the way, my dear. I
told him you were out somewhere about the
parish.'

Yes, — I was out somewhere about the
parish ; and for any good I have done I might
just as well have been swimming in the sea ! "
exclaimed the girl, with a sudden tone in her
voice that made her father look at her.

But when he looked at her she merely
laughed and presented an unreadable face to
him.

I went over the hill to see the
Hodgson,' she said, * and, oh, they are a
hopeless, stiff necked set there ! I don't
think I shall go near them any more. I shall
set Dr. Brydon upon them when he comes
instead of me. He could fight old Hodgson,
you see, with those muscles of his, — and it
would do him a world of good. I mean, it
would do Hodgson a world of good. As

for Dr. Brydon — I don't care.' And she took
up her hat, which she lead thrown down
upon the table, and went suddenly out of the
room, leaving the Rector with a certain sense
of disturbance.

She is upset to-day,' he thought to himself.
'Alas! my poor child, she gets upset in
these days more than she used to do.' And
the good man shook his head and sighed.
'It is all the effect of that money — that
miserable money,' he thought. ' Would to
God we had never heard of it ! '

And then he set himself sadly again to
Ins work, not doubting that he had understood
his daughter, and fathomed to the
bottom the reason of those ups and downs of
spirits and those moments of perversity and
bitterness that made it at times a little hard
to deal with her.

The Wheelers were kindly people, and
Diana — perhaps with something of compunction

— made much of them during the few remaining
weeks of their stay in Hettlestowe.
She had known them almost intimately all
her Hfe, though perhaps she had cared little
for them ; but now that they were going out
of the place she felt half guilty that she had
cared so little for them, and she tried during
these last days to repair that wrong.

My dear, are you not amazed to hear
that we are going to Wilmotes ? ' ILi's.
Wheeler asked her on the first day when
they spoke openly together of the impending
change. ' For my own part, I tell you truly,
I can hardly believe it yet, for it has come
about so suddenly, and it is exactly what one
never would have thought of. But it seems
a tine thing for us, — don't you think it is,
Diana ? — an excellent house, I hear, and such
a nice neighbourhood, and Dr. Brydon
iiuaranteeincr us a certain income ; did
you know that ? Yes, for three years he

guarantees us (you won't repeat it, you
know) four hundred a year. Oh, it all
sounds most satisfactory. And he has been
so frank and straightforward in telling Dr.
Wheeler his own reason for not wanting to
stay in the place. He said he wanted us to
know about his poor sister from himself before
we went, because we should be sure to
hear the story as soon as we got to Wilmotes,
and of course I shall never repeat it to a soul
here. I am sure he has been a good brother,
hasn't he ? And a good brother, / believe, is
a good man altogether. I had a dear, kind
brother myself. Ah yes, but he's dead — he
died of yellow fever out in Jamaica. And
he was always delicate, not a bit like Dr.
Brydon. Dr. Brydon isn't the least delicate,
I should think. And, my dear, just tell mea
little now about Wilmotes. I am so much
interested in it, of course, and I can speak to
you, you see, so much more comfortably than

to him, and you know the place so well.
I've been longing to see you I Just begin
now, dear Di, and tell us all you can.'

And then sirs. Wheeler arranged herself
on the sofa by Diana's side, and deposited her
hands confidingly on Diana's knees, and prepared
to listen.

Perhaps the girl on her side was ready
enough to talk of Wilmotes. Xot on that day
alone, but on various subsequent days, she
let Miss. Wheeler question her, and she gave
answers to all her questions readily. She told
her all about the village and the people, and
a good deal about that bit of her own life
that she had spent in it. Hitherto she had
always been shy in Hettlestowe of speaking
much about her life at Wilmotes, but now,
with probably the same feeling that bad
prompted Dr. Brydon's confidences — the feeling
that all the gossip of the neighbourhood
would be poured as soon as she reached the

VOL. III. P

place into Mrs. Wheeler's ears — she told her
own story frankly, if briefly. It was the best
thing to do, it seemed to her, — not unwisely
perhaps. 'Though at the same time,' she
thought, with a touch of anger in her heart,
I owe a grudge to Dr. Brydon for making
me do it.'

Dr. Brydon in the course of their short
acquaintance had made her do a good many
things that she had not liked, she reflected,
not perhaps without a certain thirst for
vengeance.

Almost immediately after Christmas the
Wheelers took their departure from Settles
Dr. Wheeler leaving his patients in
temporary charge of a young medical man,
who stayed for a fortnight in the place, after
which Dr. Brydon arrived, without any note
of preparation having been sounded, late one
night. They knew nothing of his coming at
the Eectory until the afternoon of the next

day, when Diana met him, already busy about
his work.

She met him, but lie was driving, and
they merely bowed in passing, and it was not
until one or two more days had elapsed that
she encountered him on foot, and held anv
sort of communication with him.

She was on that occasion returning to the
village from an excursion she had made to
some outlying cottages, and they came face
to face on a bit of breezy road.

He paused as he approached her, and,
You haven't been calling at any of those
houses, have you .^ ' he abruptly asked her,
without any other word of greeting.

Yes, I have been to one of them,' she
answered with equal brevity.

'Then don't go again,' he authoritatively
returned. ' They have got scarlet fever up
there.'

I know that,' she said coolly ; ' but there

p 2

is no scarlet fever in the house where I was.
I was at Mrs. TurnbuU's — that white cottage
with the pig-sty behind it.'

Exactly ; and the child who is ill (as you
seem to be aware) is next door. So you
must cease your visits.'

'But, Dr. Brydon !' she said. It was

an irrational impulse of resistance that rose
in her. She knew it was irrational ; and yet
she was so self-willed that she let herself
yield to it. ' There can be no risk in going
to another house. That is absurd ! ' she
said.

He looked at her with a moment's laugh
• It seems to me that the absurdity is on your
side,' he composedly answered. ' Surely you
are enough acquainted with the ways of the
poor to know that wherever there is illness
neighbours crowd in to look at the
patient? Do you suppose your Mrs. Turn
bull has not been in to see little Bill Dawson ? '

And then he laughed again, and she
coloured, and for the moment made no reply.

No, — I am only sorry that you have been
to the place at all,' he said ; ' for it is always
foolish to run useless risks. But you must
be so good now as to give me your word that
you won't go again.'

I had not meant to go again,' she all at
once replied quickly. 'I hate to be ordered,
as you know ' — this half jestingly, half defiantly
— ' but if you had not begun to rile
me, I should have told you at once that 1
had no thought of going back. When 1
went to Mrs. Turnbull's just now I didn't
know the child was ill.'

Ah, well then, that is all right,' he said
composedly.

Only, mind,' she exclaimed, ' you haven't
got the better of me ! '

And then she looked at him with a rather
dubious assumption of triumph ; and he

looked at her with a light in his eyes of
unmistakable laughter. But with his lips he
only said, 'Oh, no, I don't pretend to have
got the better of you,' in a perfectly placid
and expressionless way ; and the next moment
he put out his hand and bade her good-bye.
After which she walked home with her head
rather in the air.

'He thinks in his heart that he has got
the better of me,' she said to herself as she
went, ' and it is utter nonsense. I do think
that if there is anything in the world that
tries my temper, it is to be treated like a fool,
as Dr. Brydon treats me. But I'll be even
with him some day.'

And the utterance of this feebly feminine
threat comforted her a little, so that she was
able, when she got back to the Eectory,
to announce the fact that she had met Dr.
Brydon with entire composure and indifference.


We only stopped to speak for a few
moments. He was in a great hurry, going
off to see little Billy Dawson, who (did you
know ?) has got scarlet fever.'

Xo ; I had not heard that. I am very
sorry to learn it,' said the Eector anxiously.

It is the first case there has been in the
village for a long time — isn't it.^ Papa, do
you think there would be any harm in my
going to see Billy Dawson too ? '

The Eector looked up at his eccentric
daughter, and opened his mild eyes.

Why, Di,' he said, ' unquestionably there
would ! You never go to those sort of cases,
you know. I will go myself this afternoon. I
hope the child is not very ill. Did you think,
my dear, of saying to Dr. Brydon that we
should be glad to see him ? '

She gave a quick little laugh at this
question. ' Xot I,' she answered. ' Do you
think I ought to have done it ? I don't, for

my own part. I like to leave people to themselves.'


Oh, well, — well, yes ; perhaps that maybe
best,' assented the gentle Eector.

But, nevertheless, the first time he himself
encountered Dr. Brydon (Diana being on that
occasion well out of sight and hearing), he
proffered him a very cordial invitation to the
Eectory, which was accepted readily, and
the end of the matter was that an evening or
two afterwards, as they were all seated together
at the tea-table, they heard the doorbell
ring.

The guilty Eector at this sound glanced
furtively at his daughter.

I think — I — I shouldn't wonder if that
was Dr. Brydon,' he gently murmured.

Whereupon Diana jumped to her feet.

If it should be, I'll tell Ann to take him
to the study ! ' she exclaimed, and sped to the
door.

But Ann, the maid, as it chanced, had
been in the hall when the bell rang, and had
answered the summons so swiftly that Diana
only opened the parlour-door in time to find
herself confronted by Dr. Brydon, face to face.

Oh ! ' she ejaculated confusedly at this
sight.

Good-evening. Will you excuse me for
calling at such a late hour? ' he replied.

And then the Eector appeared behind
Diana, and brought his guest into the room.

We are all here at tea. I hope you will
join us. Susan, you don't know Dr. Brydon,
I think? ' he said.

After this there was no help for it, so
Diana returned in silence to her seat,

It was a family meal that was proceeding
of a very simple sort ; not one of those
pathetically elaborate repasts that poor Susan
had toiled so hard to provide for Cecil, buta
very plain and humble tea of bread and

butter, with merely the addition of an egg
for the Eector, and a pot of homely treacle
for Milly and Kate and Dick, of which relish
these youngsters had already been partaking
plentifully, so that their lips bore elaborate
traces of it that might with advantage have
been spared.

I shall be very glad of a cup of tea,'
Dr. Brydon said, and sat down by Susan's
side ; and, though the poor soul had reddened
with vexation, 'really he was so
pleasant,' she said, simply, afterwards, ' that
after the first few minutes I didn't much
mind. Only I do wish that he hadn't come
in upon us quite as he did, — don't you, Di ?
I was so vexed about the children's mouths.'

Oh, the children have very good
mouths,' returned Diana lightly to this
speech, ' and I dare say Dr. Brydon has eaten
treacle himself in his day. I'll ask him, if
you like.'

But Mrs. Fielding, not unnaturally, rejected
this proposition with emphasis.

'My dear, what things you do say!
Pray don't ask him anything of the sort,' she
exclaimed.

I only thought it might have set you at
your ease,' said Diana carelessly.

Had she herself minded the poor plebeian
meal — the children's dirty faces — the signs of
disorder on the table ? She chose to laugh
at Mrs. Fielding's vexation about these
things, but in truth she winced at the
thought of them too ; she was angry that
Dr. Brydon had selected so inauspicious a
moment for his visit.

She said little to the unwelcome guest
as he sat and drank his tea, and what she
did say she took care to season rather overmuch
with salt. And then when tea was
over, and the Pictor invited Dr. Brydon to
his study, she let the two men go there alone,

and sat down herself by the parlour lamp,
and darned socks for Dick.

Are you not going to the other room
too, Di?' her stepmother asked her a little
wonderingly after a time (for, to tell the truth,
the young woman was not addicted to spending
her evenings in this strictly feminine fashion) ;
but she merely answered briefly that she every
well where she was, and went on
darning resolutely (feeling astonishingly dull
and lonely as she did it), till at last, after
what seemed to her a very long time, she
heard the door of the study open again, and
the steps of the two men recross the hall.

Though they returned to the parlour,
however. Dr. Brydon only came in to bid Mrs.
Fielding and Diana good night. Nor did he
even linger over that operation. ' Thank
you, no, it is getting late. I must be going,'
he merely said in answer to Susan's shy half-uttered
invitation to him to stay. And then

he shook hands with them straightway and
departed ; and Diana kept her seat, even when
the Eector said something tentatively about
it beincr a moonlight ni^rlit, and that they
might walk down with Dr. Brydon to the
gate. She seemed not to hear this remark ;
so the good man did not repeat it, but
merely put on his hat and accompanied his
guest alone. And the girl sat still over her
darning, telling herself that she was a fool —
which, in fact, was not far from the truth.

I don't quite understand why you don't
like Dr. Brydon, Di ? ' the Eector said after a
little silence, when he had come in from his
brief walk ; and then Diana at this address
looked suddenly up with innocent eyes.

Dont like him ? ' she answered, with the
apparent simplicity of a dove. ' I wasn't
aware of it. I don't ^25-like him, I am
sure.'

Well, you never treat him very cordially,

my clear, it seems to me. I had hoped you
would have come in and joined us in the
study to-night.'

She gave a laugh at this.

That might have been more agreeable to
you than to him,' she answered.

I don't know why you say that, child.
I think it would have been agreeable to us
both. I was sorry that you did not come, for
we had some interesting talk. He is a very
well informed man, and a man, too, who
thinks for himself. You would have enjoyed
talking to him if you had come, Di.'

Perhaps I should,' she answered indifferently
; ' but, you see, I was mending
Dick's socks. Dick does make such amazingly
bic holes in his socks. Look here I
The whole of this heel was gone when I took
it up, about as clean as if he had eaten it.
He's an awful boy ! '

And then the Eector looked curiously at

the sock that had been in so unhappy a
condition, and smiled, and shook his head.

He gives his mother and his sister a
terrible deal of work to do for him, I am
afraid, poor little lad,' he said. ' But still.
my darling, you might perhaps have mended
these holes some other time.'

And then at last Diana laughed, and —

I suppose I might, if I had liked,' she
said, and so gave the argument up.

But why had she not liked? She could
not have told precisely, except that Dr.
Brydon always made her perverse. She
could remember certain times indeed when
it had been different — times when he had
soothed rather than irritated her ; but these
occasions seemed to her now to belong to a
time that was long past. He vexed her
always now, she said to herself; he made her
antagonistic ; he took a tone with her that
she could not bear.

And yet — perhaps because a remembrance
of that former state of things still angered
with a certain regretfulness in her mind — she
could not have denied that something like a
feeling of satisfaction stole upon her one
afternoon, about a week after Dr. Brydon
had taken tea at the Eectory, when, having
started for a walk, and being about to cross
a stretch of common that lay beyond the
village, he came up from another direction,
and after greeting her set himself at her side.

Are you coming this way ? ' she asked
him, not without surprise, as he elected that
movement.

'Yes, lam coming this way. Have you
any objection P' he replied.

And then she ejaculated ' Oh, no ! ' rather
quickly, and they went on together. And as
they went they talked.

It was a mild January afternoon, with a
sky that brightened presently into a glowing

sunset ; but at first the sun shone on them, and
the air was soft and sweet, and Diana was not
ill content. She was conscious that for the
moment she liked her occupation — and her
companionship ; that both gave her a sense
of exhilaration; that this smiling winter day,
this breezy walk across the common, the
sound of this voice that was in her ears, was
all pleasant to her.

Are you going on further ? ' she asked him
when the path they had followed through the
heather for a mile brought them out at last
again on the high road. And when he simply
g ve her back her question, ' Are you going
on furthered' and on her answering ' Xo,'
turned with her to retrace their steps without
a word, she felt a little tremor within her of
something that perhaps was gladness, though
she made a momentary effort to believe that it
was wrath.

It is absurd of him to have come all this

VOL. III. Q

way for nothing,' she said to herself ; and yet
she almost knew that she neither thought it
absurd nor that she resented it. Perhaps it
was the gentle influence of the mild afternoon
that had soothed her, — that had so rubbed
down her angles, and induced her to put in
her horns. At any rate some influence had
produced these results upon her, and made
her too content to be able to conceal all signs
of contentment.

The evening sky was before them as they
came back, and it turned its happy light upon
her face. They talked about it, and about the
coming spring that (at the moment) she was
child enough and hopeful enough almost to
believe was close at hand.

'Perhaps we are going to have no more
winter,' she said. ' There are primroses in the
garden, and the crocuses are all shooting up
their heads. I don't think any snow can come
after this. Do you ? '

But he only laughed at this sanguine question
and retorted with another.

Did you ever know a winter end in
January ? Sunny weather in January is as
delusive as — some other sorts of sunshine.'
He paused for a moment ; then, ' As delusive
as the sunshine of a capricious woman, for
instance,' he suddenly added ; and, shooting
an expressive look upon her, he walked on
with his hands behind him, and a most aggravating
smile curling the corners of his lips.

She saw the smile, and was duly aggravated.
For a moment or two she held her
tongue, but of course after that she spoke.

Now, what in the world do you mean by
such a speech ? ' she said. ' It is nonsense to
speak of women being more capricious than
men. They are not more capricious a bit, I
believe ; they are only more helpless. Men
have a horrible way of taking the initiative,
and treating women as if the only business a

Q 2

woman had was to fall in with their humours.
Now I don't see why it should always suit a
woman to fall in with a man's humours.'

No, I am quite aware you don't,' he answered
coolly. ' Nevertheless, if a man and
woman happen to be friends, the laws of
friendship, it seems to me, require her to do
that to some extent.'

Require her ! ' ejaculated Diana scornfully.
Her, and not him ? '

I said nothing about him. A man generally
falls in, I should say — at any rate so far as
words go — only too readily with a woman's
humours. It is often only lip service, I allow,
but, so far as surface courtesy goes, she gets,
for the most part, more even perhaps than is
good for her. But many a woman doesn't
give a man even surface courtesy. I know
one,' said Dr. Brydon after a moment, deliberately
looking straight before him, and speaking
with a very clear and full enunciation,

of whom I can never tell, any time I meet
her, whether she will treat me as a friend, or
(for some mysterious reason only known to
herself) as a foe.'

And then he walked on, and Diana walked
on beside him, with her face suddenly on fire.

They were about midway across the
common, the lingering, splendid sunset still all
round them ; for a full ten minutes more she
knew she must endure his company. Should
she ignore the speech that he had made ? —
ignore, that is, its intended reference to herself
? Or should she avow that she understood
its meaning by accepting it as a challenge and
answering it ?

For some moments she could not make up
her mind : then, all at once, for she had a
natural instinct for fighting, she rushed (with
but poor preparation) into the lists.

I don't know what right you have to say
that,' she began defiantly. ' You are speaking

of me — ^I see that ; but I don't know what right
you have to make such a charge against me.'

'Do you not? I should have thought you
would,' he said.

If I have been capricious towards you (or
what you please to call capricious), have you
not just as often been capricious towards
menon

what occasions ? ' he interrupted
briefly.

This demand for a moment checked her
eloquence, but she recovered herself instantly,
and was equal to the occasion.

Do you think I can recollect the occasions
? ' she retorted with supreme scorn. ' But,
if you will be fair, I think you must remember
them yourself. If you can't be sure of the
humour in which I shall meet you, do you
think I am a bit more sure of your humours?
Do you imagine that you are not to the full as
changeable as I am ? — that is, if I am to allow

that I am changeable at all — which I haven't
dene yet.'

I think,' he said composedly, * that is a
fact that we may take for granted.'

And then he suddenly stood still, and with
a smile looked in her face.

It was a smile that partly disarmed her,
for it was not defiant, nor in any sense triumphant,
but kindly, cordial, and only very
slightly amused. And the face from which it
shone was a good face too — the face of a
strong man ; and Diana in the bottom of her
heart thought so.

He stood still looking at her, and after a
few moments she raised her eyes half reluctantly,
and looked at him. It was indeed
true enough, as she well knew, that she had
shown herself capricious towards him many
a time.

'I don't know why I should confess my
faults to you,' she said abruptly, and still half

defiantly. ' If I know them myself, isn't that
enough ? And I do know them,' she all at
once ejaculated almost pitifully, with a little
quiver in her voice.

I will take that for a confession then,' he
said.

But this startled her. ' A confession of —
what ? ' she instantly demanded with suspicion.


^ That I have had — some reasonable cause
to complain of you.'

It is nothing of the sort ! ' she unreasonably
exclaimed.

Well — call it what you like : I am contented
with it,' he said.

And with that he suddenly began to walk
on again ; and — because she did not know
what else to do — she walked on too.

The colours had faded from the sky. ' It
will be dark before I get home,' she suddenly
said in a vexed way.

That doesn't matter. I will go with you,'
he answered. And, though an impulse crossed
her mind for a moment to oppose this declaration,
and to say that she preferred to go back
by herself, her protest was not uttered, and he
went.

They walked together to the Eectory,
without much more talk. When they reached
the garden gate he opened it for lier, and she
passed through ; and then they both paused,
and she turned round.

Are you not going to come in ? ' she
asked, not too graciously.

You don't seem to have much desire that
I should,' he retorted — and indeed she was
standing full in his path.

She laughed involuntarily at this answer,
and stepped to one side ; but instead of advancing
he put out his hand.

No — I am not coming in now,' he said.
I must go home and work. Good-bye. I

may come up very possibly tomorrow
night.'

Very well,' she merely replied.

And then he raised his hat, and she bade
him ' Good-bye 'demurely, and, turning round,
walked on to the house : but perhaps as she
went she did not quite possess her soul in
peace.

3 -S c -h i.

CHAPTER IX.

HE brief promise of spring soon
passed away ; with February came
frost and snow and bitter weather.
But still Diana could not rid herself of a
pleasant, delusive feeling that the winter was
practically gone. Had she not gathered
snowdrops and primroses in the woods ? One
day before the cold set in she fastened a
knot of snowdrops in the Eector's button-hole,
and in spite of his mild reluctance made him
keep them there till they withered.

My dear, I don't think clergymen wear
such things,' he objected meekly.

Well, you needn't go about in them ; but
you are not going out any more to-day,' she
answered. ' I am making up another bunch
now for Dr. Brydon.'

And a few moments afterwards she presented
him with this offering, but she left him
to fasten it into his coat with his own hands.

He had walked up to the Eectory in the
afternoon to have an hour's talk with Mr.
Fielding, but Diana had come in with her
flowers soon after his arrival, and — after her
fashion when she was content — had taken the
talk a good deal into her own hands. She
had been in the woods gathering snowdrops
with the children, and she tumbled out her
share of the spoil from her basket upon the
Rector's writing-table — littering it unnecessarily,
the good man secretly thought.

Di, let me give you a newspaper,' he had
exclaimed as he perceived her intention of
turning the basket upside down ; but his offer

came too late : before it had well left his lips
she had scattered her snowdrops over his
books and papers. (One had even gone head
foremost into his ink bottle, and two or three,
flung — perhaps intentionally — a little aside.
had alighted on Dr. Brydon's knees.)

Oh, they wouldn't look well upon a newspaper,'
she merely answered lightly. ' But
they look beautiful on the table— don't they?
Xow I am going to make you a nosegay,
papa.'

And then she proceeded to make those
two nosegays with which the gentlemen,
when they were completed, were forced to
adorn themselves.

There were multitudes of snowdrops still
left when that work was concluded.

You have more than you know what todo
with : amongst you, you must have pretty
well cleared the woods — you wasteful, immoderate
young people,' Dr. Brydon said, and

he came and sat on a corner of the table, and
surveyed the dainty litter before him.

Diana surveyed it too, a little dubiously.
There were a great quantity of snowdrops
certainly — and each of the three children too
had gathered more than she had.

I will give you some to take home to
your housekeeper if you like ! ' she suggested
suddenly.

But he did not receive this proposal with
enthusiasm.

I am afraid my housekeeper wouldn't
appreciate them,' he said.

Then I must put them all in a big bowl.'

And accordingly she searched for such a
vessel, and presently brought one from some
corner of the house, and with moss, and fern,
and ivy leaves soon dexterously arranged her
flowers.

The others sat looking on while she did it,
Dr. Brydon retaining his seat upon the table,

and cfiviDfT her some small assistance in the
way of gathering up the scattered snowdrops
into bunches.

Yes — that is useful,' she said to him
when he began this work ; ' but yet how
ugly — comparatively — you make them look !
What an ugly thing order often is, compared
with disorder ! ' And then she looked up
suddenly and laughed. ' I say that because I
know it will make you angry ! '

But he merely laughed back at her.

It doesn't make me angry in the least,'
he said. ' It is only one of the shallow half-truths
you are fond of uttering. Look now !
you are spilling that water ! '

My dear, be careful ! ' cried the Eector,
and started up to protect his books. ' Isn't
it a — a little rash, Diana, to be arranging
flowers — and watering them — upon this
table ? '

But she answered cheerfully — ' Oh, it is

all right ! I only spilt a few drops, — and it
was Dr. Brydon's fault, because he tried my
temper just at a critical moment. Look, — is
not this pretty now? I think it must be
what people of old used to call a beau-pot.
Shall I stand it somewhere near you ? Should
you like it here, on your right hand ? '

My dear,' said the Eector anxiously, ' I
think not.'

But I could move a few of the books
away, and make room for it — and I do believe
the sight of it would do you good. You
could look at it, and write a sermon about
the lilies of the field.'

'I should prefer not, Di. It is a very
pretty bowl — very pretty, my dear ; but I am
afraid I should upset it — so, if you wouldn't
mind taking it to the other room '

You are a pair of Philistines ! ' she exclaimed,
letting her hands drop in apparent
dejection on her knees. ' I don't believe it

gives either of j'ou any more pleasure to look
at these flowers than if they were so many
turnips ! '

Oh yes, it does, my clear — oh yes I ' said
the Eector soothingly ; but Dr. Brydon only
laughed.

'I can imagine occasions certainly,' he
said, " ' on which I should prefer to see
turnips.'

'You have been reading Siskin,' she
retorted upon that.

Why, is he fond of turnips ? ' he inquired.


• I don't know whether he is or not, but I
know that he says the love of flowers is not
an attribute of great minds.'

Very true. He says that hardly any
great men care for flowers at all. Well, I
believe he is right.'

'If he is, all the worse for the great men.'

Very possibly.'

VOL. III. K

And certainly nobody will get himself a
bit nearer to greatness by despising flowers.'

That is a remark hardly worth making.'

Upon which Diana exclaimed ' Oh, dear ! '
in a tone of self-commiseration. For she was
always bandying words with Dr. Brydon, and
she generally got the worst of it (as she was
quite aware) in their encounters, though, on
the whole, she submitted to her defeats with
rather surprising equanimity. She had a
theory in her own mind (which supported
her perhaps) that she should be able to turn
the tables on him some day.

So she said ' Oh, dear ! ' now, in a self-pitying
way ; but in another moment she had
addressed him again. He had taken out his
watch, and as she noticed the action she exclaimed
abruptly : ' Oh, you are going to stay
to tea ? '

And then Mr. Fielding said too that he
would surely stay to tea — and he stayed.

He had already spent some half dozen
evenings at the Eectory, and Diana had found
these evenings pleasant ; for she was social,
and she was a talker, and she liked the companionship
of persons whose conversation had
some flavour and force in it ; perhaps, on the
whole, she had even come by this time to like
those who presented some opposition to her —
the fact being that here in lier own house she
had been accustomed to such unlimited submission
that submission had, it is possible,
ceased to be wholly appetising ; and perhaps
she cared to talk to Dr. Brydon, not because
he yielded to her, but because, as her grandfather
had done, he opposed her and held
his own.

He always held his own with a frightful
obstinacy, she used to tell him. She told him
so to-night as they sat by the study fire. He
was dogmatic to a degree ; he was often in
the wroncr ; he was astonishingly acrt?ravatinsr,

R 2

she said. But he received these strictures
v^ith remarkable composure.

So much the better for you,' he only-answered.
' If I am so much in the wrong,
you have only to advance your arguments
and beat me.'

And so then she proceeded to advance
her arguments ; but perhaps she did not beat
him. In fact, argument, in any close or
continuous form, was not Diana's forte ; she
was a quick and successful skirmishes, but
if her antagonist bore down upon her too
weightily she had a trick of doubling, and
evading him, and suddenly attacking him
at a new point. Steady warfare she found
tame (and embarrassing) ; it was a thing,
she candidly allowed, that did not suit her
constitution.

So to-night she skirmished a good deal,
but, when Dr. Brydon rose to take his leave,
she felt even herself a little dubious as to

whether the victory was on her side. Still,
she had enjoyed the evening.

We have had rather a %ht,' she remarked,
with a certain complacency.

Oh, it has not been much of a fight ; in
reality you have been more than half on my
side all through,' he coolly answered.

And then she suddenly laughed, and the
vivid colour came to her face. Was what he
said perhaps true, and was she conscious of
it? She laughed, but she made a sudden
diversion, and gave no answer to him.

He is a dreadful person to argue,' she
only remarked half compassionately when the
door had closed upon him.

And then something of a twinkle came to
the Eector's eye, and — ' He is a remarkably
sharp arguer, my dear,' he ventured to reply.

But Diana was gazing into the fire, and
the Eector had noticed before now that there
occurred to her occasional moments when she

seemed to suffer from impaired hearing. She
had evidently not caught the remark that he
had just made — so he did not repeat it.

Di is looking wonderfully well,' Mrs.
Fielding chanced to say to her husband one
day, about this time. ' I was dreadfully
anxious about her a little while ago, for I am
sure she was fretting so about that money ;
but it is really delightful to see her now.
She seems to have thrown off all thought
of it again — quite surprisingly.' And the
gentle soul gave a half-sigh. Perhaps she felt
that Diana had thrown off the thought of it
to a greater extent than she herself, forced to
so many hard economies to make both ends
meet, had found it quite possible yet to do.

The Eector reflected for a moment or two,
and then assented to her speech.

Well, she does seem in excellent spirits,'
he said. ' I had not exactly taken note of it,
but certainly she appears to be very full of

life. I believe, my dear,' and he broached this
theory with the utmost simplicity, ' that she
finds considerable pleasure in seeing a little
society.'

But she doesn't see any society, to speak
of,' returned Mrs. Fielding, looking puzzled.

I was referring to Dr. Brydon, my dear.'

Oh — to Dr. Brydon ! ' echoed Susan with,
it must be confessed, an accent of considerable
indifference. ' I shouldn't think she would
care much to see him.'

Well, well, perhaps not,' said the Eector
doubtfully. And, indeed, his own remark,
after he had made it, surprised him a little.
But he is a very sensible man — indeed I would
say he is even an able man,' he merely added
after a moment or two's silence, rather
vaguely, and Mrs. Fielding returned some half
interested reply, and the question dropped.

As the year grew older it happened that
in one way or another Dr. Brydon met Diana

not unfrequently. He came to the Rectory, he
encountered her in the village, he once or
twice joined her and the children in their
walks. She was accustomed to take the children
for walks on pleasant afternoons. One
day he met them going to the woods, and,
frankly attaching himself to the little party,
went to the woods too, and gathered primroses.
Just a year ago she had had a similar primrose
gathering with the children and Cecil, and the
afternoon on that occasion had seemed rather
a long one, she could recollect. But to-day
it did not strike her as being long, and she
quite forgot to consult her watch until, with a
feeling of sudden dismay, she found that it was
six o'clock.

The children had been making primrose
garlands ; she herself had been sitting for a longtime
on a fallen tree, talking to Dr. BrydoD.

Oh, it is later than I thought ! It must
have been later than I supposed it was when

we came ! ' she hastily exclaimed, starting to
her feet as she made her unexpected discovery.

But Dr. Brydon said bluntly, ' It was
four o'clock when I met you : don't you
remember that we heard the hour strike ? '

And then she coloured a little, but she
made no reply.

After that day, when they next encountered,
she was shy with him, and very captious
and hard to please. She had been inadvertently
beguiled, on their afternoon amongst
the primroses, into treating him with unusual
graciousness ; so now, upon the next occasion
of their meeting, she took revenge upon herself,
and received him in her prickliest mood.

He had overtaken her on her way home
from the village, and was walking up the hill
with her to the Eectory.

It strikes me,' she said coolly, before
they had been together for a couple of minutes,
that you have a great deal of time upon

your hands. I can't think how you can have
so much time. Dr. Wheeler never had.'

Perhaps Dr. Wheeler pottered over his
work,' he answered in jest.

No, he did not,' she retorted. ' He
worked very hard.'
' How do you know that ? ' he inquired.

And then she hesitated for a moment.

I know it. Everybody knew it. He
was always going about the parish.'

Looking out for employment, do you
mean ? '

She gave him a disdainful look. ' What
an absurd thing to say ! '

But I don't know what would be the
good of his always going up and down the
parish, unless he had patients to go to.'

Well, he had patients, — I suppose.'

Then there must have been a good deal
of sickness in the place in his time, — more
than there seems to be now.'

'Perhaps some people may be going to
someone else,' she said defiantly.

To some other doctor, do you mean ?
Tumincr their backs on me because I don't
walk up and down the village? Xo, I don't
think that. I should have heard of it, I
imagine, if such a thing had occurred. But
the place is a small place, and the people, at
this moment, fortunately are very healthy.
And I can't say, so far as I am concerned,
that I complain of my leisure. It gives me
more time for other work.'

For what sort of work ? ' she asked
quickly.

She was a woman with a largely developed
bump of curiosity. Having been riding so
high a horse just now, she ought, perhaps, to
have felt, if she had paused to consider, that
the inquiry she had made was rather out of
keeping with her assumed dignity ; but she
was a creature of impulse, and, in fact, the

question leapt from her lips before she had
time to stop it.

It wouldn't interest you he said. ' I
am merely writing a book.'

Oh ! ' she murmured. She gave a quick
glance at him. She had never before seen a
person who had written a book. ' And — will
it be — published ? ' she asked quickly, in a
tone of unintentional surprise.

Well, I should hope so,' he answered
with a laugh.

And then she said ' Oh ! ' again, softly and
dubiously.

You evidently think that writing a book
is a business I am hardly up to? ' he said in
an amused tone after a moment. ' I see you
don't give me much credit for capacity ! '

How can I tell anything about it ? ' she
exclaimed in a tone of indignant innocence.
You would be finely contemptuous of me if
I attempted to gauge your capacity ! '

'Why do you think I should be contemptuous
? '

I am certain you would,' she said. But,
though she declared that she was certain, her
tone betrayed a certain hesitation.

You ought to know that I have never
been contemptuous of you,' he said with
gravity.

Now, that is absurd ! ' she exclaimed.

Unless it may possibly have been on that
day when you hunted Bertie into the pond.
That was a ridiculous proceeding unquestionably
I But even then I certainly felt no contempt
for you. I only thought that what you
had done was very ludicrous.'

Her face had got into a flame. ' I wish
you wouldn't speak of that ! ' she said indignantly.


Well, I have never incurred your anger
by speaking of it before.'

Then why do you do it now ? ' and she

shot a regard at him that was half wrathful,
half piteous. ' Do you think I have not been
ashamed enough myself of having been such
a fool that day ? '

Come, come,' he said with kindness, ' don't
talk like that. I may have thought what you
did absurd, but I never thought you absurd,
then or ever. 1 have been fairer, I think, to
you from that first beginning of our acquaintance
than, I am afraid, you have ever been
to me. At any rate, take my word for it, I
have been steadily fair to you, — and that most
assuredly you have never been to me.'

And then she ought to have made some
answer to this speech, but she made no answer.
She tried to do it, and she could not utter a
word.

After this they walked on for a little way
without speaking, and as they proceeded she
was conscious of a curious feeling of weariness
stealing over her, — a feeling as if her heart had

gunk. In reason she should no doubt have
been satisfied to learn that Dr. Brydon's
opinion of her had been always so consistent,
but things do not at all times affect us as they
ought, and strict justice was perhaps not
altogether a thing that appealed invariably to
Diana. Besides, she was annoyed with herself
that she had not answered him. So she
walked forward for a little while in silence,
and then she suddenly stood still, and addressed
him belligerent.

'I don't know what you are coming all
this way for,' she said, with small heed to
courtesy. ' My father is out, so there is no
use in your calling. You had far better go
home — and write that book.'

He looked at her with a barely perceptible
twinkle in his eye, and as soon as she had
finished speaking he took her at her word
and stood still and put out his hand.

Well, if you dismiss me, of course I must

go,' he merely answered. ' But I shall take
my walk in another direction. I don't work
on my book at this hour of the day.'

And then — she had not expected such
ready obedience perhaps, or at any rate it
failed to content her, for she walked home by
herself in a curiously dissatisfied mood.

Next evening Dr. Brydon came to the
Eectory, and she felt abashed when she met
him, though she tried not to appear abashed
at all. It was April by this time, and the
days were lengthening, and she was doing some
gardening in one of the flower beds when he
came up the path from the gate. She had
seen him before he saw her, but she did
not rise from her stooping posture as he advanced,
and when he was near her she merely
nodded to him, without removing her gardening
gloves, or offering him her hand.

Good evening ; it is a beautiful evening,
isn't it ? ' she said. ' You will find papa in

the study.' And then she \\'ent on busily
with her work.

But he returned her greeting, and came
to her side. ' Your borders are beginning to
look quite bright,' he said. ' Are you putting
in seeds ? let me help you.'

At this proposition, however, she gave
rather a scornful laucrh.

I am afraid your help wouldn't be much
worth having. You know nothing about
gardening. Your sister told me that,' she
said. 'Besides, I have just finished.'

Then let us have a walk round the
garden,' he suggested at once.

No, I must go in,' she replied.

Upon this he waited for a minute or two
in silence, till, having no more seed to sow.
she was forced to rise up, and then at once,
as soon as she had risen —

Why did you treat me so cavalierly
yesterday? ' he frankly asked.

VOL. III. S

'I?' she ejaculated, with a momentary
effort to appear surprised ; but the effort failed,
the colour rose to her face, and in another
second she was mistress of herself enough to
feel that she had better take another line,
more in accordance with the truth ; so she
said suddenly —

Well, I will beg your pardon, if you like,
but I was cross.'

And was it I who had made you cross ? '
he instantly asked.

If it was, that was nothing new,' she
answered hastily. And then she repented of
her words as soon as she had uttered them,
for, of course, he did not let them pass. He
looked at her a moment and stroked his
beard.

Do you really mean that I often make you
cross ? ' he said. ' I never intend to do that.
I had hoped we were sufficiently friendly for
you to bear a little from me. But I made

you cross yesterday, I suppose, by accusing
you of not being fair to me ? '

No, you didn't,' she retorted quickly. A
gleam of mischief came into her eyes. ' You
made me cross,' she said with sudden daring,
by saying that you had always been fair to

And did you not like that ? ' he inquired
with curiosity.

No, I hated it,' she answered instantly.

And then, at sight of his perplexed face,
she broke into a laugh — which was in truth
the most contented laugh in which she had
indulged since they had parted yesterday.

'Well, I don't understand you,' he said,
after a brief silence. ' Now it seems to me,
so far as I can speak for myself, that if I were
to hear from you that you had always judged
me fairly, I should take considerable satisfaction
in that statement.'

Perhaps you might,' she retorted carelessly.

' But I am not you. You wanted to
know what made me cross, and so I have told
you.'

Hem ! you puzzle me,' he ejaculated
musingly. ' I suppose you can't explain it ? '
and he looked half expectantly into her
face.

But she had had her moment of enjoyment,
and she was getting a little uneasy
now.

No, no ! don't say any more about it,'
she exclaimed. ' You couldn't understand
me, even if I tried to make you. I have told
you that you made me cross — and that I beg
your pardon for having let myself be cross
And now I am going in.'

Very well,' he assented briefly. ' Only,'
he added after a moment, ' I mean to get
at the bottom of this.'

'Don't be absurd! ' she answered hastily,
with a little terror.

And then she made rapidly for the house
without another word.

You Trill find papa in the study,' she
merely said when they reached the doorstep,
and he nodded and went to the study, and sat
with the Eector till the bell rang for tea.

He used to share that homely meal occasionally
now with the Fielding, though his
doing so always put Susan in a certain flutter.

For your dear father doesn't think that
things are not very nice here, and that Dr.
Brydon is accustomed to late dinners,' she
would say to Diana pathetically. ' Of course,
when Cecil was staying with us, we were
prepared, and it was different, but I dont like
it when Dr. Brydon comes in unexpectedly.
I can't help it, Di : he always does put me
out.'

And, though Diana would try, after her
fashion, to give her stepmother some jesting
consolation, she never succeeded in bringing

the shy Httle woman to acquiesce in Dr.
Brydon's presence at her table as she had
both acquiesced and rejoiced in Cecil's.

The Eector and his guest went out into the
garden when tea was over, and the children
came round her and drove her out into the
garden too. The sun had set, but the sky
was golden where he had gone down ; it was
a soft, glowing, April evening.

I believe we should hear the nightingales
if we went down to the little wood,' Kate
said.

But Diana answered that the wood would
be cars, and she stood still in the light of the
sunset, facing the west. And then, after a
minute or two, the children ran away about
their own affairs ; and while she was hesitating
whether or not to follow them the Eector
and Dr. Brydon came to her across the lawn.

There was hardly any dew falling, and
they walked up and down over the grass for

half an hour ; then the Eector gave a little
cough, and — ' I thmk we ought to be coming
in,' he said. ' It is very mild, but one has
to remember that it is only April still.' And
he led the way back to the house.

But when they reached the porch Dr. Briton
made some remark about a distant light
in the village, and, the Eector having already
passed in, called to Diana to look at it, and
she turned back a step and looked ; and then
he began to talk to her, and she stayed and
listened. She stood leaning against the trellis
of the porch, with some faint lingering of the
western light still on her face.

They had fallen into a talk about
Wilmoteses, and to talk about Wilmoteses to Dr.
Brydon had been pleasant to her before
now.

I think it is our one bond of union,' she
said to him after a time with a sudden laugh.

He was silent for a moment when she

made this remark, and then he answered
briefly — ' I don't agree with you.'

Well, it is our chief bond at any rate
she returned. And then, all at once — ' Dr.

Brydon ' she said abruptly, and suddenly

stopped.

Well ? ' he inquired after a pause.

There is something I have often wanted
to ask you, because it always puzzles me,' she
said. ' I can't think, after you left Wilmotes,
why you came — here ? '

The place pleased me,' he answered after
a moment.

Yes, perhaps it pleased you when you
saw it,— but what made you think of coming
to see it ? '

Because, from what you had told me
about it,' he said, ' I thought it would suit me
very well for a time.'

You thought, do you mean,' she asked

with a little hesitation, ' that, being so quiet,
you could write your book here ? '

Well, yes, it seemed to me by no means
a bad place to write a book in.'

Oh — I understand ! ' But still she spoke
a little dubiously. ' Of course it is very
quiet. Then you mean that you are only
going to stay for a time ? '

I may, not improbably, only stay for a
time,' he replied. ' But you needn't repeat
this to anybody.'

Oh, I shall not repeat it.'

And then there was a little silence.

I shall probably go to London before
long,' he broke it presently by saying. ' In
fact — for, as we are speaking of this, I may as
well tell you — if I live I shall certainly go to
London before very long.'

To settle there ? ' she asked.

Yes ; to succeed to the practice of an

old friend of mine who is going to give up
work soon.'

Soon ? Does that mean ? ' she said,

and then stopped

It means most likely in a year or two.'

And then there came another pause ; and
somehow in the silence Diana suddenly
wished that she were alone, with no eyes on
her, in her own room.

She made a movement after a minute.

We ought to be coming in,' she said.

Well, we will come in immediately,' he
replied ; ' but before we do that I want one
word of opinion from you. Since I have
spoken to you about this matter, I want to
know how the scheme strikes you. What do
you say ? Would you call it a good one ? '

A good one ? Oh yes,' she said. (But
she spoke with a sort of coldness in her voice
that his ear caught.) ' I think, if you can
do better for yourself, that it would be a

great pity for you to waste your life here. I
thought from the first that it was very strange
that you came at all — only, of course, as you

wanted to write that book But to stay

here always — oh yes ! that would be a great
pity. You are clever — I should think : and
London will be your best field.'

And London is not so far away,' he said.
She gave a curious, abrupt laugh. ' What
has that to do with it ? ' she asked.

I think it may have something to do
with it,' he returned.

And then, all at once, she felt much as if
she had been struck with sudden imbecility,
for she tried to think of some answer — any
answer— that she could make to this remark,
and she could think of none.

So with a nervous movement, after a brief
silence, she turned round, and — ' Let us come
in : it is getting chill,' she merely said, and
passed into the hall.

[0 in a little while we shall have seen
the last of him ! ' Diana said to herself
that night. ' Well, I am glad he
has told me. I like people to tell me things.

Only — when he is gone '

And then she broke the sentence off, for, to
tell the truth, a lump had risen to her throat.
He said to her abruptly a few days afterwards
—

We shall have some things to talk about
together in future years — some memories, I
mean, in common. I am glad of that.'

But when he made this apparently
uncalled for remark she only stared at him.

Yes — if we happen to meet,' she
answered.

He laughed at this reply.

If we happen to meet ! ' he repeated.
What, then — do you contemplate throwing
me off?'

We are certainly not likely — after a Httle
while — to meet often,' she said.

Upon my word,' he exclaimed, ' I don't
see that ! '

Why,' she retorted, ' when you go to
London '

That has nothing to do with it,' he interrupted,
bluntly and irrationally. ' London
will make no difference.'

Well, but that is absurd I ' she said.

There's nothing absurd about it,' he
answered.

And then — 'You seem to think that I
am one of the coldest people living,' he beoran
to say, half jestingly, after a few moments'

silence. ' You never, so far as I am aware,
since I have been acquainted with you, have
given me credit for caring for anybody —
except perhaps my sister. Now — if I know
myself at all — I should say that in holding
that view of me you are wrong.'

But I don't hold it,' she said. (The denial,
however, came with rather an uncertain sound.)

I have always, for instance, had a great
regard for you.'

That is ridiculous,' she answered sharply.
If you have ever had any regard for me
(which I don't believe) you certainly did not
begin with it.'

May I ask,' he said very quietly, ' how you
are aware of that ? '

Do you think I could help being aware
of it ? ' she retorted. ' You made it plain
enough. Not that I want you to think,' she
added with haste, ' that I complain of you for
it in the least. You would have quite as

much reason — or more reason — to complain
of me on that ground — if it were a matter for
complaining about at all — which, of course, it
isn't. You see, we didn't like one another — at
first;

I never saw anything of the sort,' lie
said.

You — didn't ? ' she ejaculated, and opened
her eyes.

Most assuredly not. My idea had been
that we rather took to one another. We had
some slight occasional disputes together, but
that had nothing to do with it — in fact. I
should say, they advanced our friendship.
That is, at least, how I took it. And then there
came your accident — and that drew us
together again.'

You were very good to me when I was
ill,' she said quickly. ' I always remember
that. You were wonderfully patient with
me.'

I was very miicli interested in you,'
he corrected her. ' I took a keen interest in
all that time. It was no small loss to me when
I had to bring my visits to an end.'

I don't know how that could be — when I
used to try you so,' she said, with the colour
curiously hot in her face.

Not at all,' he replied. ' You never tried
me. But you see ' (and then, if she had been
looking at him, she might have perceived a
lurking mischief in his eyes ; only, happily for
her own self-esteem, her eyes were resting elsewhere)
— ' but you see, I was under the delusion
at that time that we were friends.'

Well — but — I didn't say that was a delusion.
I hadn't meant to speak of that time,'
she ejaculated confusedly.

Oh, I see ; you excepted the time of your
illness ? '

« Yes — I suppose I excepted it,' she
allowed.

And what about that other time later on
before your grandfather's death ? Do you
think you except that too ? '

She gave little nervous laugh. ' Perhaps
I do. These were both special times, you
know.'

Then you think it is natural to make a
friend of a man for a certain period, and to
drop him afterwards? Ah, I should hardly
have expected that of you,' he said.

She gave herself a sudden mental shake.
He was getting the better of her, and she saw
naturally — that this would not do.

I should say that we all make friends
of people occasionally — in sudden crises, I
mean — and times of that sort,' she began
with decision. ' You must know that yourself
very well. If somebody is kind to you
when you want kindness, you are very grateful
; but we often receive kindnesses from
people with whom in ordinary life we have

VOL. III. T

little in common — and then, of course, the
friendship that has sprung up suddenly
generally ceases again.'

And is this,' he asked quietly, * your
statement of how the case stands between us
two?'

She hesitated for a moment ; then suddenly
she laughed.

No, I didn't exactly mean that,' she said.
I only meant that, as I said before, I never
thought you liked me till you were able to doa
service to me, and so, of course — I mean it
was natural — that is, I want you to understand
that I have never considered I had any
claim upon you since those special times
when you were kind to me came to an end.'

Ah — I see,' he assented composedly.

And then there was another pause, and in
the silence she was enraged to feel that the
blood was still hot in her face.

Well, there is only one thing more that I

should like to say,' lie all at once began again.
I must be going in a moment,' and he
glanced at his watch ; ' but T want to say this
one word first. You don't seem to have taken
the same view that I have done of our relations
to one another, and you hold some views
about me the truth of which I positively
deny. But I feel disposed to make a brief
confession to you. You told me the other
day that you were curious to know what
could have brought me here. Well, if you
want to have your curiosity gratified, I came
here because you were here, and I wanted to
be near you. I had been left a lonely man,
and I was led here by the thought of your
friendship. — Xow good-bye, for I have not a
moment more.'

And he hastily shook hands with her, and
departed, leaving her so startled that she
dropped down upon a garden chair.

You look as if you had been running.

T 2

Have you been running, Di ? ' Dick asked her,
open-eyed, a quarter of an hour afterwards,
when, bursting like a catapult out of the
house for a little bodily refreshment after the
mental labours of the afternoon, he came upon
her suddenly, risen in haste from her seat,
with something in her face that made him
involuntarily fix his wondering regard upon
her. For she was very pink, and her eyes
had something curious in them, and she
seemed conscious, and short of breath. ' I do
believe you've been running races ! ' exclaimed
the boy severely, and with a bitter sense of
her meanness in indulging in this delightful
exercise by herself.

Don't be ridiculous, Dick ! I've been
doing nothing of the sort,' she retorted with a
half laugh. ' But I'll run a race with you
now, if you like,' she added next moment
hastily, for Dick was still staring at her, and
she felt that she must get his eyes averted at

any cost. ' Come away, we'll run to the big
pear tree. One — two — three I '

And they started off. But before they
reached the goal Diana stopped, panting, and
Dick won so easy a victory that his lip curled
with contempt.

It was a day or two after this before she
met Dr. Brydon again, and, to tell the truth.
she felt very shy when she saw him. But
they encountered in her father's study, which
was so far fortunate for her that she had it in
her power there to hold her tongue, for the
Eector was in the room, and he and his guest
talked together, and she was only called on to
join in the conversation if lie pleased.

And then after this first meeting; she was
more mistress of herself, and they continued
to see one another again as usual ; and as the
days passed she recovered her self-possession,
and grew at ease with him again, for he made
no further reference to what he had said to

her in the garden, and almost seemed even to
have forgotten that he had said anything at aU.
And yet, because perhaps by the sincerity of
her own nature she judged of his, she did
not think he had forgotten what he had done
her the grace to tell her, and it never occurred
to her to disbelieve it.

She was a woman in whom up to this
time there had been many angles ; a masterful
woman, troublesome to deal with — too crude,
and self-assertive, and dominant. But now, as
the days passed on, those angles began
curiously to round themselves. There came
an increasing tenderness and sweetness into
her ; for the first time in her life there even
came a visible humility ; she grew gradually
mellower, like fruit in the sunshine.

With the lengthening days, as the year
crept on from April into May, and from May
to June, Dr. Brydon came more and more
frequently to the Eectory. He would walk

over on more than half the evenmcrs of each
week, comme usually late (to Mrs. Fielding's
relief), when tea was over, and sometimes, if
the evenings were fine, not entering the house
at all, but passing the hour or hours of his
stay wholly in the garden, with such members
of the family as chose to keep him company.
Most frequently those members were the
Eector and Diana.

Do I wear out your patience by coming
too often ? ' he said to her one day abruptly.

Whereupon she answered cordially, if a
little shyly — ' We have hardly so many friends
that you are likely to do that.'

But at this response he looked all at once
with a mischievous amusement at her, and —
Oh, you acknowledge that I am a friend,
then ? ' he said.

And then she flushed a vivid crimson and
lost her self-possession for a moment.

I — I thought we had agreed that you

were she only answered rather weakly, when
she recovered herself enough to make any
reply at all.

But he was not inclined to accept this
statement, so when she made it he shook his
head with decision.

No — no, — we didn't agree to anything,'
he replied. ' However, if you consent to our
friendship now, I am content.'

Oh, I consent to it ! ' she answered, half
laughing.

Well, that is all right,' he merely returned.


And then, with a little trepidation, she
began hastily to speak of something else.

There was a commotion in the house one
day in June, for the post of the morning
brought Dick the first letter he had ever received
from any quarter in his life, and this
initiatory letter came from Cecil, and contained

an invitation to the boy to go and stay with
him at Wilmotes.

Dick leapt in the air with delight before
he had half read it. ' I thought he would
forget, but he hasn't forgotten ! Oh, Gemini,
he's a brick ! ' he cried, and he bounded
about the room in his excitement like an
india-rubber ball.

I have only been home for a week,'
Cecil had written, ' or you should have heard
from me sooner. But I hope Aunt Susan
will let you come now, and stay a good longtime.
It isn't very lively here, I am sorry
to say, but we will have lots of music, and
I hope you will enjoy yourself. I shall like
to see you very much.' And then the poor,
faithful lad had added : ' I should like to see
you all.'

And so Dick is going, and he is almost
off his head,' Diana told Dr. Brydon in the

evening. ' I wonder if he will like it ! It
seems so strange to me to think that he will
be at Wilmotes soon — in the midst of the
life that I know so well.' And then she gave
a little sigh.

You have a very tender feeling always
for Wilmotes,' Dr. Brydon said rather bluntly
after a moment or two. ' Upon my word,
I often wonder that you ever made up your
mind to leave it. It must have cost you a
struggle.' And, when she made no answer :
Did it ? ' he asked quietly.

Yes, for some things it did,' she said then
very gravely. ' You know I was fond of the
place, and I had been fond of my grandfather,
and it was — well ' — with almost a sort of
defiance — 'it was hard to me to give up
that money. You may think that I shouldn't
say so ; but it is the truth. How could it
help being the truth — when we are so poor ?
I almost felt that I had no right to give it up —

when I could have done so much with it for
them — when there are the children, too.
But what is the use of talking of it ? ' and
she broke off suddenly. ' It is all an old
story now. It is no use thinking of it anymore.'
And she turned away aU at once to
a rose-bush that they happened to be passing,
and began rather impetuously to gather
some of the roses from it.

'" If you can't bear to think of it, that
almost looks as if you regretted what you
had done,' he said quietly, after he had
looked on at her hurried proceedings for
some moments.

I dont regret it,' she answered shortly.
'I don't regret what I did. I couldn't have
done anything else. I only regret what it
has cost me. At least ' — and then suddenly
she ceased from her hasty plucking — ' what
I mean is, I have regretted it a great deal. It
has bothered me dreadfully ; but — well, you

know, it is no use going on fretting about it
now.'

Certainly not,' he assented in his fullest
tones.

They were walking in the garden, and it
was early in the evening. He said to her
suddenly after a little silence :

And so now you have made up your mind
to remain a poor woman ? '

Yes,' she replied briefly.

For the rest of your life probably ? '

Oh yes ; no doubt, for the rest of my
Hfe.'

Well, I am a poor man,' he said. ' Will
you come to me ? '

They both stood still. The colour had
risen to her face.

'You are the only woman I have ever
loved,' he said. 'But I suppose I need not
tell you that. I suppose you have known
all along how it has been with me ? '

All along ? ' she only repeated wonderingly.


Well, I will say, at any rate, ever since
the time of your accident. But in reality
that was not the becfinnincf of it. The beginning
of it, I believe, dates from the day
you ducked Bertie in the pond.'

Oh, that is nonsense ! ' she exclaimed.
You shouldn't laugh at me.'

Why shouldn't I ? ' he answered frankly.
I have laughed at you many a time, and I
hope to laugh many a time more. But I
love you too,' he added suddenly in a different
tone, ' down to the very bottom of my
heart.'

She tried to make some answer ; but nota
word would come. They stood for another
moment or two apart and in silence, and then
he approached her nearer, and took her
hand.

He took it, and held it so fast that she

could hardly have drawn it from him if she
had tried ; but she did not try. She stood
by his side, mute — conquered — content.

If we had not known one another at
Wilmotes, did it ever strike you that you
could have married Cecil ? ' he asked her
abruptly after a little while.

She lifted up her eyes to him at this.
She had not lifted them much yet, but the
comedy of this question almost took away
her shyness.

Did it ever strike me ? ' she repeated.
Why, if it hadn't been for that ! — why,' she
exclaimed, breaking into an irrepressible
laugh, ' how could I have done anything
else?'

It had been a day of excitement. The
morning had brought Dick's invitation to
Wilmotes ; the evening brought a bewildering
piece of news — such news that Susan
dropped into her chair when she heard it,

and the Eector gasped a startled ' God bless

me!'

But after a moment or two he at least
recovered himself, and with a face in which
smiles wrestled for the victory with something
that was near to tears, he grasped
Dr. Brydon by the hand, and said that what
he had told him made him glad ; for Diana
was the best daughter — the best daughter,
he said

And then she suddenly put her arms
about his neck, and his sentence never
reached an end.

THE END

S i: H

Printed BT

SrOITISWOODE AND Co NEW-STUEBT SQL'AUB

London

^^m

•X
