i

The person charging this material is responsible
for its renewal or its return to
the library from which it was borrowed
on or before the Latest Date stamped
below. You may be charged a minimum
fee of $75.00 for each lost book.

TiMft, mutllattoii/ nid undttrilning of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
TO RENEW CALL TELEPHONE CENTER, 333-8400

University OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

APR 2 7 1998

When renewing by phone, write new due date below
previous due date. LI 62

VOL. I.

AT ALL THE LIBRARIES

RESTITUTION. By Anne Beale, author of 'Fay

Arlington,' ' The Pennant Family,' &c. 3 vols.

MISTRESS BEATRICE COPE, or Passages in the

Life of a Jacobite's Daughter. By M. E. Le Clerc. 2 vols.

THROUGH THE LONG NIGHT. By Mrs. E. Lynn

Linton, author of ' Patricia Kimball,' 'Pastor Carew,' &c, 3 vols.

THE TRACK OF THE STORM. By Dora Russell,

author of ' Footprints in the Snow,' ' The Broken Seal,' &c. 3 vols.

Deronda. By The Countess of Munster. 3 vols.

HURST & BLACKETT, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

M. F. H

BY

MAY CROMMELIN

AUTHOR OF 'QUEENIE,' 'BROWN EYES,' ETC.
AND

J. MORAY BROWN

AUTHOR OF ' Shinar SKETCHES,' ' POWDER, SPUR, AND SPEAR,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. 1.

LONDON :
HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
1889.
All rvjhts reserved.

Malcontents



OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

CHAPTER I.

IN THE MARSHWOOD VALE.

It was a dull, foggy evening iu January as the
London express pulled up with a snort at the
small wayside station of Force.

The indignant hiss of the engine seemed as
if that most useful propeller somewhat resented
being called upon to stop in its wild career at
such a forlorn-looking spot.

Forde, Forde, Forde !' yelled the one solitary
porter, as if he thought it was a matter of vital
importance for all the passengers in the train to
know that they had arrived at the place.

VOL. I. B

Here I open this confounded door,' was the
only response he got, as a much-sequestered
figure appeared at the door of a first-class
smoking-carriage, vainly struggling with the
handle. At last the said figure was released,
and stepped out, followed by bags, hat-box,
gun-case, etc., in fact, all the impedimenta and
paraphernalia with which luxurious youth is
wont now-a-days to travel. The guard's
whistle sounded, the engine gave a shriek and
with a puff" threw herself into her collar again
(to use a coaching phrase), and soon the train
disappeared round a curve of the line.

'Please, sur, be you fur Squire Bentley'sf
inquired the solitary snipe of a porter ; ' 'cos if
you be, squire's dog-cart be waiting' fur you, and
there be donkey-cart fur luggage.'

On receiving a reply in the affirmative from
the passenger whom we have just seen alight,
the intelligent porter asked him to point out
his luggage, and while this difficult operation
was being performed we will introduce our
hero.

Jack Kamsay, for such was his name, was a

gunner — a Royal Horse Artillery gunner — and,
as such, this looks and general appearance did
no discredit to that smartest of all the smart
branches of Her Majesty's service. Standing
about six feet, his broad shoulders and lithe,
muscular figure were surmounted by curly
brown hair, regular, well-cut features, and a
pair of keen, dark-grey eyes. He was clean-shaved,
with the exception of a small, carefully-tended
moustache that only partially concealed
a firm yet pleasant-looking mouth — a mouth that
could at times smile almost as sweetly as a
woman's, and yet at others be compressed into
a look of dogged determination that betokened
its owner was not to be trifled with by man or
beast.

Captain Jack Ramsay was some thirty years
of age ; he had been left fairly well off", and the
cause of his visit to Forde was owing to an
invitation from Squire Bentley, his godfather,
and his dead father's old friend and college-chum,
to come down and spend part of his
leave with him, and hunt with the Marshwood
Vale Hounds.

B 2

Jack's horses had come down a few days
previously, and the ' solitary snipe,' in reply to
his interrogations, informed him that they had
arrived all safe and sound. The luggage having
been duly collected and stowed away in
the donkey-cart, Jack, after telling the boy in
charge to ' shove that old moke along,' stepped
into the dog-cart, and bowled away over the
six miles of good road that separated him from
his host's residence.

'How are you, my dear boy? God bless
me, you are much altered since I saw you last,
but how well you look ! How like your dear
father,' said the cheery old squire, as he welcomed
Jack with outstretched hands, and turned
him round under the lamp in the hall, while he
gazed affectionately and earnestly into his face.
What a silly old fool I am !' he added, as
Jack divested himself of his Wrapper ; 'here
I am, forgetting you have had a long journey
and a cold drive. Come in, and warm yourself,
and then we'll have dinner ;' and, saying
this, he pushed Jack into a snug bachelor's
sanctum, where a wood and coal fire shed a

cheerful glow ou the thick Turkey carpet, and
(dispensed a genial warmth around.

A few moments of conversation ensued with
inquiries about his horses on Jack's part, and
then, lighting a candle, the old gentleman
showed him up to his bed-room.

Dinner discussed, the taro men adjourned fora
smoke to the squire's sanctum, and then Jack
inquired,

By-the-by, squire, I am almost ashamed to
ask the question, but avIio has the Marshwood
Vale Hounds now? I know old Vyvian died
last year, but out in that infernal country,
Egypt, one hadn't much chance of being posted
in what was going on at home, much less as to
the doings of the sporting world.*

Oh I we've a capital master,' was the reply ;
and then the squire's pipe evidently wanted
particular attention, for he puffed and sucked
at it vigorously.

But what is his name?' persisted Jack.
'Name, name? oh! same name.'
'What— Vyvian?'

'Yes, yes; of course, of course; but I'll

introduce you tomorrow. By-the-by, that is a
very nice brown mare of yours ; where did you
get hers

Yes, she is — "Brenda" by "Baroniae." She
Alas bred down here in your west-country,,
and I picked her up for a mere song.'

So the conversation drifted on to the subject
of horses, and the old squire walked round
the room, candle in hand, descanting on the
merits of old favourite dead and gone hunters,
whose portraits adorned his walls. Now he
told how this horse carried him over twenty
feet of water, how another pounded the
whole field over ' that big double,' anon how
this bay horse was * as clever as a cat,' and
that chestnut could ' stay for a week ;' and soon,
with a certain prosiness and reiteration that
might have proved wearisome to one less keen
and interested in sport than his listener.

At last, however, when the night was well
advanced, they separated ; but not before Jack
had lit one last pipe and walked round to the
stables to see his horses.

Jack's groom was waiting for him, and in

reply to his query, 'Horses all right, Evans?*
touched his cap and replied, * Yes, sir, as light
as nails.'

The stud occupied a range of three good,
roomy, loose-boxes, and were standing littered
up to their hocks in nice, clean, wheat straw ; for
the squire was a staunch old Tory, and like a
true sportsman took good care that any horse
as well as man who partook of his hospitality,
was well treated.

The occupant of the first box was the aforesaid
*Brenda,' a large, powerful, well-bred,
mare, with good sloping shoulders, clean flat
legs, game, lean, well-seton head and neck,
and hocks and quarters that looked like going-through
dirt. Her nostril was large and red,
whilst her clear bright eye, and satin-like coat,
betokened her in the best of health and condition.
As her master approached her with a
play-ful slap on the quarter, and a ' How are you,
old lady V she turned and rubbed her velvety
muzzle against him, as if in response, showing
that they were both on those terms, viz., the
very best, that should exist between man and

horse, particularly when the former entrusts his
neck many times a day to the safe keeping of
the latter. Box No. 2 contained a fine, upstanding,
black horse, much of the same stamp,
but not showing quite so much quality as the
mare; in fact, more of a weight-carrier. His
name was ' Erebus.' The last box was tenanted
by a bright, hog-maned bay, what at a first
glance one would almost feel inclined to
designate a pony. But, though standing
barely fifteen hands, he was a pocket Hercules.
He was a bit hobby, but when his
wonderful, sloping shoulders, strong back and
loins, great powerful hocks, thighs, and gaskins,
deep back ribs, and the great depth through his
heart was noticed, he had all the appearance
of a sixteen-three, weight-carrying hunter, in
miniature. As his master turned up his rug,
he made a playful snap at him, but 'Come,
come, old man, none of your nonsense !' seemed
to reassure him, for he pricked his ears and
turned his head as if to inquire if his services
would be required on the morrow. He was his
master's favourite, and rejoiced in the name of

'Harlequin,' by 'The Clown' out of 'Columbine,'
and was about as well-bred as lie could
be.

The following morning saw Jack and his
host attired in all the splendour of pink coats,
top-boots, and snowy breeches, en route to
meet the Marshwood Vale Hounds at one of
their best fixtures, to wit, Blackamoor Bridge.
It was the perfection of a hunting morning.
A gentle rain had fallen during the night, the
large, spreading pastures were all damp, and
every branch and twig on the trees and hedges
had its dependent drop of moisture. Heavy
clouds were rolling along overhead, through
which every now and then the sun shone out,
only again to be temporarily obscured, while a
faint breeze just stirred the tops of the now
leafless trees.

By-the-by, squire,' began Jack, ' you never
told me who was the present Master of the
Marshwood Hounds last night. Is he any relation
to the late one V

'Yes, a very near one,' was the reply; 'but
I'll introduce you; in the meantime we had

better jog on ;' and, suiting the action to the
word, he put the powerful weight-carrier he
was riding into a good, round trot, and so Jack
was again baffled in his inquiries.

A couple or so of miles brought them to the
meet, an old stone bridge spanning the dark,
sluggish stream known as the Slack — a stream
well-known to members of the Marshwood Vale
Hunt, and of which rumour related that enough
whips, spurs, and stirrup-irons reposed in its muddy
bottom to stock any ordinary saddler's shop.
The hounds, attended by the Hunt servants,
were walking about in an adjoining field, in
which, also, were grouped several knots of
sportsmen, whilst a string of carriages, from the
pair-horse landau down to the more humble
polo-cart and farmer's gig, denoted that Black-brook
Bridge was a favourite fixture.

As the squire and Jack made their way
through the crowd, and turned into the field,
a tandem, composed of two smart-looking cobs,
and driven by a nice-looking girl, with another
lady sitting beside her, pulled up. As they did
so, every hat was raised ; and in less than no time

a fine, symmetrical, Avell-bred bay horse, eaiTying-
a side-saddle, was brought np to the near side
of the cart. The fair charioteer, throwing off
her ulster, sprang lightly into the saddle, and
gathering np her reins, after having her habit
adjusted, moved on to make way for her companion,
who followed her example. Both
ladies were attired in fanltlessly-cnt habits, no
doubt the work of that great maestro in such
habiliments, 31r. Justine, and wore scarlet
jackets, open at the throat and showing a
clean, well-starched white tie, secured by a
small, diamond, horse-shoe pin. The younger
and fairer of the two wore a black velvet ,
and this, with the horn at her saddle,
made Jack open his eyes. She was a pleasant-faced
girl with a good figure, wavy brown hair,
and large grey eyes that looked you in the
face with a true, straight, and honest glance ;
whilst her complexion was of that tint of which
Englishwomen are so justly proud, and denoted
her country-born and bred.

As she rode into the field, the pack caught
sight of her, and, breaking away from the

Hunt servants, came tumbling and howling
along in their eagerness to welcome the well-known
figure. Some jumped at her horse's nose,
nearly all were pawing at her, whilst one old
veteran sprang so high that he nearly landed
in the rider's lap, and, falling back, left great
muddy paw-marks all down the previously
unspotted habit. No rate or punishment did
the old hound get, however, from those fair
lips, only a ' Gently, Contest, gently, old man ;'
and then a piece of biscuit was thrown him,
which he caught dexterously. As the Hunt
servants came up and lifted their caps, they all
received a courteous greeting, and, after a few
minutes spent in conversation, old Tom Hark-holder,
the huntsman, got the pack round him ;
then with a ' Hounds, please, penmen !' from the
first whip, they moved off to draw.

Come along, my boy, and I'll introduce you
to the new master,' whispered the old squire,
with a chuckle to Jack, who was sitting on his
horse staring in open-mouthed astonishment at
this new departure in the customs of the .
As they ranged up alongside the

wearer of the hunting-cap, she extended a hand
to the old man, saying,

'Oh, I'm so glad you've come out to-day,
squire, for I'm sure we will have a good run.'

Voit always bring us good hick, Miss Vyvian,'
was the old gentleman's gallant reply ; ' but pray
let me introduce my friend Captain Ramsay to
you — my godson and a thorough sportsman,' he
added sotto voce.

The introduction over, they fell back, and on
the way to covert the following conversation
ensued :

Well, Jack, what do you think of the new
master V

Come, squire, you're chaffing me. I suppose
Miss Vyvian is the master's daughter V

Yes, she was.'

Was ! what do you mean V

What I say,' was the calm rejoinder.
"Violet Vyvian is old Vane Vyvian's daughter
; as he died more than a year ago, he can't
be master now ! But I won't mystify you any
longer, but tell you the Avhole story. Poor old
Vane, though the best fellow in the world, was a

bit eccentric, as you may have beard. Ho bad
two great passions in bfe : bis only child Violet,
and bis bounds. He bad a great horror of impecuniosity,
and so when bis will was read it was
found to contain these provisions :

Firstly: That Violet should not marry
anyone unless be was the possessor of a title
and good income. In the event of ber disregarding
this wish of ber father's, the whole of
the property was to go to ber cousin (Cyril
Vyvian — whom I'll point out to you presently),
except five hundred pounds a year, wbicb was
to be Violet's under any circumstances,

Secondly : That sbe, or whoever succeeded to
the Forde Manor estates, should maintain in an
efficient manner the Marsbwood Vale Hounds,
without any subscription, and provide for the
Hunt servants should they be injured or incapacitated
by accident or old age from continuing
to discharge tb heir duties in the field. Well, Violet,
whom I bave known from a child, is nov ^I.F.H.,
and well sbe fills the position. Sbe knows more
about bunting than most men ; the bounds will
fly to a mere touch of ber born ; sbe rides as

straight as a line, and though she is such a gentle-looking
little woman, I can tell you it would bea
l)rave man who would in our country dare
to press on, or over-ride hounds, or treat her in
any but a respectful manner ; for if he did. Miss
Vi, in a very few but very quiet words, would
make him " feel his position acutely," as the reporters
have it. AVith all this she is not a bit
fast or slangy, and there isn't a man, woman,
or child for miles round that doesn't swear
by Miss Violet. There now, I've told you all
about our master ; only, for goodness sake, don't
go tumbling head-overseers in love with her, for
as you are not a lord it would be useless.'

CHAPTER 11.

GONE away!

The hounds bad now turned off the road through
a gate, and across a couple of grass fields till
they reached a large square-shaped covert of
some thirty acres, composed of oaks and hazel,
with a thick undergrowth of brambles and large
tussocks of grass. This was just such a place
as a repose-loving fox would select to take his
ease in. Castle Wood, for such was the name of
the covert, had a reputation for being a sure
find, and on this occasion it kept up its reputation,
as we shall see presently. Tom had sixteen-couple
of dog-hounds out, and he pulled up fora
moment waiting for Violet's signal to throw

the pack into covert. lu the meanwhile, one
whipper-in had slipped through a Httle hunting
wicket, and scuttled down a drive to the far end
of the wood, whilst the other had cantered away
to the right, to take up another point of
observation.

The hounds were all packed together, looking
up in old Tom's face, with waving sterns and
that eagerness to be at their natural foe depicted
on each canine countenance, which showed
them to be a pack of hounds well hunted and
having had plenty of blood.

The field was not a large one, some fifty all
told, perhaps ; and Violet, after looking round
and seeing that everyone was drawn up at one
side of the covert, gave a nod to Tom, who in
his turn raised his whip-hand, and with a ' 'Leu
in there, my lads !' waved the pack in. In a
moment not a hound was at this horses' heels as
they dashed into covert almost with a cry, but
which was restrained to a whimper, making the
wattle fence which bounded the wood crash and
crackle from the impetus of their charge. "With
a * Come hup, 'loss !' Tom jumped in after them,

VOL. I. C

"whilst Violet cantered away to a gate and
through it also entered the covert, and soon she
and Tom were lost to sight.

Whilst they are finding their fox, let us take
a look round at the country, and make the acquaintance
of the members of the Hunt.

The country was not a fashionable one, lying
as it did out of the beaten track of those sportsmen
who rush about hither and thither from
town, hunting now with this pack, now with
that, and giving little or nothing towards the
maintenance of the particular pack they deign
to favour with their august presence. It is men
of this kind who make fox-hunting unpopular
with a certain class, if it is so in any country.
Farmers, as a rule, even if they do not hunt
themselves (and, alas ! in these days of Radicalism
and bad prices, comparatively few can afford
to do so), do not object to any slight damage
being done on their farms, provided it is done
by sportsmen residing in the country — men who
give them a helping hand by buying their
forage from them, etc., and whom they know and
constantly meet. Farmer Giles does not object

to a gate being sniaslied by Squire So-and-so,
knowing he "will probably express his regret at
the accident and send him a sovereign to replace
it ; lout when Mr. Perks of London does likewise,
and not only does not express any regis-et, lout
plentifully bespatters the aggrieved owner with
abuse and foul language for locking the said
gate — why, then the worm turns, and ' dang
thick fox-hunting !' is the thought uppermost in
the bucolic mind. If fox-hunting is to flourish,
which heaven grant it may for many a year to
come, — consideration must be shown for the
agricultural element.

The Marshwood Vale country was a wild and
sparsely populated one. A good deal of grass,
comparatively little arable land, and wide
stretches of down and heather gave that undulating
character to the scenery so much more
pleasing to the eye than a dead flat. The
coverts were mostly big woodlands and large
straggling horses on the sides of the hills. Ina
dry season these downs, being mostly chalk,
carried but a poor scent, but given a good soaking
of rain, hounds could fly along at a pace

that made even a thoroughbred do his level
best to keep on terms with them. The vale
part of the country was stiffly enclosed, the
fences being mostly big, straggling, hairy
doubles, with a ditch on each side big enough,
in many cases, to engulph horse and rider, should
the former make a mistake, whilst when ncAvly
cut and laid, the ' plusieurs ' were strong enough
to turn over almost an elephant. There Averse
a few flying fences, a fair quantity of timber
(generally of a very stiff description), whilst the
hills that encircled the country were the watershed
of numerous streams which, when they
reached the lower level, presented formidable
obstacles, and required not only a bold but a
clever horse to negotiate with safety and
success.

The district immediately surrounding Castle
Wood was one that could not fail to gladden
a sportsman's eye. Fairly big, rush grown,
badly-drained pastures, with only here and there
an arable field, cropping out like a brown island
from a sea of green, gave promise of a holding
scent ; and the forbidding character of the fences

made it plain that the iiiau and horse who woidd
really be idtli hounds must be possessed not
only of nerve and determination, but that these*
qualities should be combined with discretion
and judgment. Some five miles distant a gentle
slope led upwards towards a gorse and rock
bestrewn range of downs, the sides of which
were seamed by dark lines denoting the course
of some of the streams on their way to lower
ground. These ' goyles,' as they were termed,
often proved a ' stopper ' to the field. Too wide
and too much protected by dwarf timber on
either bank to be jumped, they necessitated a
scramble in and out ; and a rash horse, in attempting
this, often brought himself and his
rider to ignominious grief.

Beyond these hills again lay the sea, glimpses
of which could occasionally be descried where
an opening or gap in the range permitted.
Take it all round it was what is called a rough
country, but a decidedly sporting one.

Now for our field. That lady on a well-bred
chestnut mare, surrounded by a knot of admirers,
is Mrs. O'Brien (wife of Rufus O'Brien),

and was the lady who had driven over with
Violet to the meet. She was tall, With a fine
figure, Which her well-cnt scarlet jacket fitted
to perfection, and with masses gf dark, somewhat
coarse black hair plaited and pinned inlarge
coils at the back of the head. Keen,
flashing black eyes that now looked bold, now
languishing ; a pale olive skin which, when
excited or heated, was suffused by a warm rich
tint of crimson ; the whole set off by a 
habit, made her a prominent figure,
and one at which a stranger would naturally
cast more than one glance. She sat her horse
square and straight, and in fact the whole turnout
made a handsome picture. When hounds
ran, Mrs. O'Brien was always ' there or thereabouts
;' and, though she undoubtedly did ride
well, many were the tales of the jealousy she
exhibited if ever deprived of her pride of place.
Talking to her in a very emjyressij and devoted
manner was Cyril Vyvian, a small, neat,
sandy-haired man. Weak and ordinary-looking
would be the casual observer's verdict on
him, but weak though he undoubtedly was, he

bad his good points — a warm, though too impressionable
heart, moved hither and thither by the
caprice and feeling of the moment, always
wanting to do right, but with barely strength
enough of character to follow the dictates of
his conscience.

That big, red-haired, red-bearded, blue-eyed
man on foot, tightening his horse's girths, is
Rufus O'Brien. When Violet was left an orphan,
she invited her old school-friend Kate O'Brien
and her husband to come and take up their
abode at Forde Manor. Rufus, it was agreed,
should look after the kennel and stable arrangements
generally, whilst Kate was to act the
part of chaperon. A good fellow in every
sense was Rufus, and liked equally by men and
women, for his hearty, jovial manner and keen,
sparkling blue eyes had a ring of honesty about
them that proved irresistible to both sexes. A
sportsman he was, every inch, and his weather-defying
garments, though well-cut and well-made,
were devoid of any dandyism. He, like
most members of the Marshwood Vale Hunt
who sported pink — and they only numbered

some dozen or so — encased his upper man in a
huntsman's cut coat, and, in virtue of his
position as Master of the Horse, etc., wore a
velvet hunting-cap. His horse, too, looked a
wear-and-tear ' sort of animal, and, Hke his
master, hailed from the Emerald Isle — a big,
muscular chestnut, with a Roman nose and
great ragged hips, but with immense power
and those drooping quarters that so many Irish
horses have, yet possessing all the points for
galloping and staying that are necessary to a
hunter.

Talking to him is the hard-riding farmer of
the Hunt, a mere boy to look at, though some
forty summers have passed over his head. Ted
Pile his friends call him, and any horse that
he gets on, has to go nolens volens. A lightweight,
and with the best of hands, he can
shove a sticky horse along, or let a bold one go,
with the best, and it is a treat to see him handling
a raw young four-year-old over a bit of
stiff timber, or screwing him over a big double
under the branch of an overhanging tree. He
possesses those two very necessary adjuncts to

a really good horseman, viz., iiervcfc; of iron,
unflinching determination, and a sweet, very
sweet temper.

A little detached from the group, puffing a
cigar in moody silence, sits the great gun of the
Hunt, Lord Guisard. He is the largest landowner
in the country, and, from his self-satisfied
appearance, evidently considers himself a sort
of small deity, only existing to be worshipped
by his more humble fellows. He has his good
points, undoubtedly, if one could only find them
out ; but, alas ! few, if any, people have as yet
been honestly able to accomplish that difficult
feat I His appearance is certainly against him.
A pale, pasty complexion, surmounted by hair
the colour of well-bleached flax, and a scrubby
moustache that he Alas incessantly nibbling and
biting at when not better employed, — added to
small pig-like eyes that never looked one straight
in the face, and a somewhat corpulent figure with
large, flabby, coarse hands and feet, — did not
make him bear out the character of an Adonis,
for which he fain would pose. Ride he certainly
can, in a certain way, for he has little

fear, but the less said about his judgment, or
thought for the good horse he rides, the better.
In fact, he looks on a horse as merely a machine
to carry his lordly person.

Near him, chattering ' twenty to the dozen,'
are Mr. and Mrs. Blatherwick, two well-known
members of the Hunt. Mr. Blatherwick had
spent his early life in the colonies, where he is
supposed to have amassed a fair fortune. * Old
B.,' as he is generally called, is a very good
fellow in his way, but, as far as hunting is concerned,
an arrant humbug. On a road, or
through a line of gates, he is a ccqntal man !
but, when a fence appears, he invariably has
some excuse for turning away from hounds — he
has either * Lost a shoe !' or ' Must look for Mrs.
B., confound it all !'

Mrs. B. equals her husband in leading the
gallop in the excuse department. ' Dear me !
so disappointing, you know ; we had a capital
start, and saw every yard of the run, but
unfortunately, just before you killed, my poor
dear horse stubbed himself,' etc. etc., Mrs. B.
would say all the time, she never having given

the said horse a chance of stubbing himself!
Then to hear her at a check on a bad scenting-day
was a treat. ' I Lord Guisard, did you
see my dear old horse jump that gate ? I
thought he would nary come down, he jumped
so high !' The said gate having been unhung
and laid flat on the ground ! However, they
were very harmless people, and barring hustling
at a gap, and occasionally heading a fox, did but
little harm ; being very hospitably inclined, and
glad to ' walk ' a couple of puppies for the
Hunt, they were not the worst members of it.

One or two neighbouring squires, a fcAv farmers,
a hard-riding vet. on a weedy thoroughbred
(all in a lather, already !) and some three
or four officers from the adjacent barracks at
Loughborough, make up the field.

But all this time hounds have been drawing
steadily through the thick and tangled undergrowth
of Castle Wood. At last, however, one
hound throws his tongue. ' Hic to Trickster !
hic !* rings out old Tom's cheer, and the next
moment the chorus is taken up by the pack.
One ring round the covert they take, awakening

the echoes, sending pheasants soaring away
over the tree-tops, and disturbing a colony of
jays that flit screaming about ; then a dead
silence for a moment, and then from round the
corner of the covert came a soft ' tweet, tweet,
tweet !' It was Violet's horn. Hounds fly to
her, and Jack, settling himself in his saddle,
hustled his horse for a start. As he rounded
the corner through an open gate he saw Violet
cheering some four couple of hounds on the
line, while the rest of the pack came tumbling
out of covert, straining every muscle to catch up
their flying comrades. There was a rare scent,
and hounds drove along at a good pace. The
fence at the end of the field was a big uncompromising
looking double, and as she approached
it Violet pulled her horse into a trot, and
dropped her hands. The clever animal she rode
lit lightly on the top, paused between the newly-laid
plusieurs for an instant, and then bounded
off, over the ditch on the far side, and was sailing
away again in his stride in a moment.
Jack followed suit, and then came old Tom,
Rufus, Kate, and several others, all negotiating

the place safely except the vet., whose impetuous
screw went at it forty miles au hour, and came
to grief in consequence. In this order they
sailed on over some dozen fields, Violet leading,
for do what he would, and though horribly put
out at being led by a woman. Jack could not
diminish the distance between them, and he had
too much regard for his horse, and too much
judgment to push it unnecessarily. At last they
come to a piece of plough, a swede field, in
which some sheep were hurdled ; this brings
hounds' noses down, and affords a welcome
relief to the field, the stout division of which
are beginning to pant and mop their brows.

Tom does not attempt to cast his hounds, but
lets them try for themselves. At last, however,
seeing that the sheep have so foiled the line
that the hounds could make nothing of it, he
caught hold of them and galloped forward.
Directly they got on grass again, * Denmark,' a
large tan hound, lashed his stern as he feathered
down the side of a fence, and a moment after
threw his tongue decisively. Away they all
streamed. They had now entered a wild snipes

bit of country, and were nearing the
hills which stood out clear and distinct only
some three miles distant. This was evidently
the fox's point, and between it and him not a
covert intervened. ' Forrard, forrard !' screamed
old Tom, though hounds were running as
hard as they could, too fast for much music.
After another mile or so, the field began to
tail considerably, and was confined to Violet,
Kate O'Brien, Rufus, Jack, and some half-dozen
more. Lord Guisard had been deposited
in a ditch, from the bottom of which he was
endeavouring to extricate his horse, with many
curses and blows showered on the luckless
animal Violet had now resigned the lead,
which was alternately taken by Jack and Rufus,
and so they went on, now topping a double,
now flying a smaller fence, and anon popping
over a bit of timber in a corner. Violet, however,
was well to the fore, and the more he saw
of her the more attracted to her Jack became.
She rode so gracefully, there was no flurry or
fuss about her, and she and her horse seemed
only to be cantering, whilst they made light of

every fence ; in fact, her whole Scaring was so
quiet and unostentatious, and yet so sporting
that few seeing her could withhold a tribute of
admiration.

They had topped a gently-undulating piece
of ground which fell somewhat more abruptly
on the far side, and at the bottom a tell-tale line
of Willows betokened the presence of water.
As hounds splashed in and scrambled out, sending
the spray flying in showers, Jack, who was
lying third, muttered against his better judgment,
which told him he ought to shut off steam going
down hill,

Hang it all, I am not going to be led over
this. Come along, old woman !' and, shaking up
Brenda, he rushed past Violet and Rufus.

Keep to your light,' shouted out the latter as
Ramsay shot past him, at the same time pulling
away in that direction himself. But the warning
came too late. It was a big jump, some
sixteen feet of clear open water with rotten
banks, and though the good mare was fully
capable of accomplishing this, as she took off,
the undermined rotten bank gave way beneath

her weight ; she made her spring and did her
best, but alas ! she and her rider went souse into
the muddy depths of the stream ! They did not
part company, however, and soon managed to
scramble out on the right side, as Violet, Rufus,
and the Hunt-servants flew the brook a little
lower down; though, of course, Jack lost ground
by the mishap. Others availed themselves of a
well-known ford, and all soon were re-united.

On the hounds went, and nearer and nearer
they approached the foot of the hills. ' Yonder
he goes !' screamed old Tom, as he caught sight
of a little draggled brown form struggling up
the hillside with a couple of magpies hovering
and chattering above him ; and sticking spurs to
his horse, with a couple of blasts of his hoi-n, he
lifted hounds and galloped on. He was too late,
however. Careless stopping had left one earth
open, and into this friendly shelter the now well-nigh
beaten fox disappeared with the hounds
almost at his brush.

A six-mile point, almost straight, and run
in thirty minutes, the time-keepers of the Hunt
made it, and * a capital gallop,' was the verdict

of everyone — particularly the Blatherwicks,
^vho made their appearance shortly afterwards,
having found a convenient line of gates and
lanes.

I hope you won't be any the worse for your
ducking,' remarked Rufus to our hero ; ' have
one of my weeds, yours must be soaked,' he
added, as he saw Jack turning over the contents
of his sodden cigar-case.

Oh ! no, thanks,' was the cheery reply. ' I
don't think we shall be much the worse ; but I'll
gladly avail myself of your offer, for this moist
'baccy of mine is not much good. However, 1
think I'll get home and change as soon as I can.
How far is it to Mr. Bentley's?' he inquired, as
Rufus struck a fusee and offered it to him.

Only about eight miles. You see that clump
of trees yonder ; when you get there you'll find
a lane by a little stream — follow the course of
the water till you come to the village of
Hawkhurst, and then anyone will tell you the
Avay. By-the-bye, Miss Vyvian has told me to
ask you and the squire to come and dine at
Forde Manor this day week. Can you come '^

VOL. I. D

If SO, she will send you a formal invitation.'

Thanks, I shall be delighted if Mr. Bentley
has no other engagement,' returned Jack ; and,
the weed being lit, he remounted his horse, lifted
his hat to Miss Vyvian, and set off to find his way
home.

In the meantime, it has been decided not to
attempt to dig the fox ; the good run he has
afforded and the straightness of his course
having, in Violet's eyes, ensured his life being
spared, in the hopes that he may on some future
day afford the Marshwood Vale Hounds another
good run.

So hounds move off in one direction to find
another fox, while Jack disappears in another,
and soon all is still in the vicinity of the earth,
save the * pee wit, pee wit !' of the plover as he
wheels and dashes about in fantastic flight calling
to his fellows, and the distant thunder of the
surf as it breaks on the beach far away.

Had any of the field, however, elected to
stay and watch the spot, they would, as the
shades of evening fell, have seen a pointed
black nose gradually protrude from the earth,

shortly followed by the body of the * little red
rascal,' who, after giving himself a shake, and
having a look round to see the coast was clear,
set off on his homeward travels. That night he
slept at Compton Gorse, and the following day
found him back in this uld quarters at Castle
Wood, from which doubtless he will afford the
Marshwood Vale Hounds another good run ere
the ' who-whoop ' resounds over him, and he
becomes ' a hundred tatters of brown.'

d2

CHAPTER III.

FIRST IMPRESSIONS.

The evening had come on which Jack Ramsay
was bidden to dine with the M.F.H. of the
Marshwood Vale Hounds. At a quarter to
eight the drawing-room at Forde Manor presented
a pleasant, nay, even picturesque scene.
The Avails, that were wainscoted right up to the
ceiling in panels decorated with floral wreaths,
had once on a time been painted cream-white,
as was also the high, carved, wooden chimney-piece.
This barbarism of some dead Vyvian of
Georgian days was to be excused by the charming
background that it made to the bright
dresses of the guests, thrown up still more by

the subdued neutral tints with which the room
was upholstered in silk of apparently a century's
age, and of the dull olive-green carpet.
Modern taste was gratified by tall palms mounted
on liandsonie china stands, softly rounding the
angles of the large room with their drooping
fronds, and by the most luxurious of easy'
lounges and sofas mixed with the severe Chippendale
furniture of bygone days, such as high,
old-fashioned screens and matchless, inlaid, corner
cupboards, behind the glass doors whereof
generations of Vyvian dames had jealously
guarded their treasures of Chelsea and Bow,
Wedgwood and old Dresden.

Yes, it was a pretty scene. All the members
of the Hunt wore pink evening coats with green
collars, the uniform of the Marshwood Vale,
while on their brass buttons an M. V. in plain
letters stood out distinct and legible. They
were wont to declare that thcij were strictly
conservative, and Avould not follow the fashion
of having writhing hieroglyphics for their
escutcheon, that no one could decipher without
difficulty. As the portly squires with their

wives in best dresses of last season's London
visit, and fresh-faced younger men with pretty
sisters came in, Violet Yyvian received them
each and all with the frank smile and winning
manner that made her such a favourite in the
county.

As guests passed on, Rufus O'Brien gave them
a second reception with a gi-eat hand clasp that
engulfed women's fingers and drove their rings
into the flesh. Yet even that sourest of dowagers,
old Lady Guisard, could not look angry
with his sunny blue eyes smiling down on her,
while the most hospitable loud welcomes were
poured forth, with the ' least taste in life ' of Irish
accent, straight from his honest heart.

Mrs. O'Brien stood studiously a little aloof.
The iu-comers had rather to seek her out ; it
was not her role to interfere with either the mistress
or major-domo of Forde Manor. She would
not ' put herself forward for the old women to
carp at her,' she confided with a low laugh to
those of the younger men who sought to know
the cause of this modesty. Yet to some of these,
her admirers, who got a swift flashing glance

out of her glorious black eyes and a soft lingering
pressure of her hand, Kate O'Brien's part in
their greeting was, though last, not quite least.

There was a bodyguard of three or four stout
old squires round Violet. They all thought it
their duty to devote themselves to their young
hostess, and apparently believed she must equally
enjoy their society on all occasions ; besides, as
none of the young fellows could have her,' why
should they scruple to monopolise her ?

Hallo I' remarked one of these, presently,
here's some one in a black coat coming in.
A stranger, eh ? and a very good-looking fellow,
too.'

By gad, he is,' muttered another old gentleman,
in a low voice, as Ramsay — for he was the
new-comer — approached.

Even as he came up the long room, Violet
was conscious of a pleasurable thrill as she
watched that tall, symmetrical figure. True,
his coat was like that of the vicar, the Rev.
Jack Wood, a black blot on the otherwise
bright aspect of the groups: but that helped to
make him appear the more distinguished. She

liked his looks, manly, straight, and strong ; and
she liked, too, his erect carriage and decided
step. Some of the younger men, traversing
that long expanse of drawing-room alone, had
felt shy and shown it ; some affected this style,
others that. Her fastidious mind inwardly
criticised them all : the jovial sporting ones, the
thinner languid lady-killers, brisk, dapper, little
men who sang and gave themselves airs, and
those who, with good looks and means, preferred
stables and smoking-rooms, clubs, and
their own comfort to women's sweetest witcheries.
She knew them all, or thought so. But
here was a new type.

He is very handsome, and he must know it ;
but he does not seem to think much about it,'
was Violet's mental verdict, looking up at Jack
Ramsay's clean-cut features, tanned brown by
much outdoor life, and meeting full a keen,
clear glance out of his dark-grey eyes.

She was right enough : Jack knew that
women's glances, and those of some of his own
sex, too, often turned admiringly upon him.
But there was a lurking smile under his moustache,

which last was a shade lighter than his
brown, Avavy, though closc-cHppetl hair, and it
seemed to hint he was ready to laugh at any woman
who said his features were like the * Dying
Gladiator,' or a Greek god ; to laugh heartily at
himself, too, if he were coxcombical enough to
feel vain of such a matter of chance as a straight
nose.

The young man's own thoughts, as Violet
greeted him, were : ' Frank and honest in her
manner ; and not above being winning, too.
She is no Venus, but a nice-looking girl all the
same. I like that waving brown hair so
prettily drawn up to the top of her head, and
she looks good style and well turned-out altogether,
as a hunting Avoman should.' bliss
Vyvian's white satin bodice and tulle skirt
became her figure, certainly, to perfection ; and
a very good figure it was.

You will find an old friend of yours here.
Captain Ramsay — indeed, a cousin, I believe,'
said Violet, brightly. ' mrs. Beaumont is my
near neighbour, and she is one of my greatest
friends.'

She looked round to where Jack saw a dear
and familiar face of his boyhood's days smiling
at him. This was that of an elder cousin, now
a-widow, who lived at Littleforde, a pleasant,
small house just outside the park wall of Forde
Manor.

He made straight for her.

Well, Margaret, Jwic are you V

Well, Jack, welcome to Marshwood Vale.*
(They had not met for eight years.)

1 am very glad to see you again, You are
not changed in the least since I saw you last,'
said the young man, warmly; looking with
friendly admiration into Margaret Beaumont's
face, that was still as delicately pretty as he
remembered it, though she was in her ' thirties,'
while her reddish-gold hair was as thick and her
brown eyes as bright as ever.

I cannot say the same of you,' she replied,
with a soft, flattered smile showing she owned
still to woman's special weakness. ' You were
a raw recruit then, and so shy. But I have a
scolding for you already ! I am quite hurt that
you should have come down to see the Marsh-wood

Vale lIouodFJ, and not be .staying with
me.'

Your scolding always used to have something
nice wrapped up in then) : I remember that as a
little chap. Well— but, you see, Squire Bentley
asked me (hewn here. He is my god-father, you
know, and has always been very kind to me.'

I'll forgive you, then, if you promise to come
to me afterwards, and to stay as long as you
like,' said sirs. Beaumont, gently. She was a very
affectionate woman, and always yearned after
her own people, few of whom were left alive.
You always used to look upon me as an
elder sister, you know, Jack, so I hope you have
not changed. And, really, I have fair stables and
can put lip your horses and groom quite easily,'
she added, with a trifle of anxiety lest Jack should
be inwardly afraid of a widow's menage, bad
wine, a pampered coachman, and mysteriously
vanishing oats and hay.

Jack laughed.

I am pretty certain of that. Report has
already told me you have a model establishment,
my dear margaret. Yes, I shall be delighted

if I may transfer myself and my belongings to
Littleforde, after my fortnight with Mr. Bentley
is up. It is just like your old self to ask me so
kindly.'

He was interrupted by a general movement
to dinner, and found himself allotted to take
in Mrs. O'Brien.

Miss Vivian's dinner-tal^le reflected as much
credit on that young lady's administrative capacity,
as did the management of her hounds, and
the whole appearance of the fine old home she
had inherited from generations of ancestors.
Ramsay's eyes examined the whole appointments
of the table: the silver, glass, flowers;
wandered to the full-length, be-rufFed and bewigged
portraits that were let into the panelled
walls ; and settled longer with calm satisfaction
on the menu.

All good, very good,' he thought to himself.
^ By Jove ! she must be a clever girl.' Violet's
situation interested him ; he was curious to see
if she managed her affairs, or was controlled by
them against her wull ; whether she was a figurehead,
or a pilot of her own ship. Now, she was

sitting at the head of her tankard hsteniiig-
with as highly good-humoured a smile alternately
to Lord Guisard's inanities on her right hand,
and the hoarse whisper of a stone-deaf old
gentleman, the father of the Hunt, on her left, as
if they wvYG the wittiest and handsomest people
present.

But Kansas's observations had to be made
very briefly and at stolen intervals, his whole
attention being promptly challenged by Mrs
O'Bnen.

I am quite sony, Captain Ramsay, that you
should not have been allowed to take down
your cousin, Mrs. Beaumont, this first night,
instead of such an insignificant person as myself,'
she murmured, with a soft flash of her
large black eyes. ' It would have been so much
pleasant for you. She is so pretty, is she not ?
Miss Vyvian and I are so fond of her ; our dear
Peggy, as I call her.'

I can hardly imagine anything pleasant
than the present arrangement,' cheerfully returned
Ramsay, as in duty born id. But his soft
speeches had generally a spice of amusement

in them that might tm-n to ridicule if the
situation became at all sentimental. ' May I ask
in what way Mrs. O'Brien can consider herself a
nobody.'

Really, my part in this household is such a
small one. Miss Vyvian — she is an heiress, you
know, though bound, alas! by most tiresome
conditions of a will — she is the sweetest girl in
the world and so clever. Then my husband is
her major-domo, looks after her hounds '

And chooses her wine, I should think. He
deserves our thanks for his excellent judgment,'
put in Ramsay, who had just put down his glass
with inward gusto.

Ah ! — I wish — I wish my husband did not
know quite so much about wine. But, of course,
that is from a wife's point of view,' said Kate
low, while her beautiful eyes became downcast
a moment and the faintest of little sighs
escaped her. Ramsay thought he had better
change the subject ; so he asked,

And what is your share in this most charming
establishment ? Whatever it is, I am sure it

is well (lone, to jiulgc by the results eveiy-
wh ere around us.'

I — ! I am Miss Vyvian's duenna.' The
words left Mrs. O'Brien's lips so artlessly, yet
were accompanied by such a killing glance
straight and full out of her dark eyes, that Jack
fairly burst out laughing, being tickled at the
idea. Then, on being pettishly reproved for his
rudeness, he gravely apologised, explaining :

'You seem so young for such a responsible
post. I should say you cannot be very much
older than Miss Vyvian herself.'

Why, I am younger, I believe, some months
younger,' Mrs. O'Brien innocently hastened to
reply (though in this her memory misled her,
as it does many women). 'ewe were schoolfellows,
and the dearest of friends; but as to
age, being married, you see, makes all the
difference.'

I see ;' Jack looked with an air of fervent
faith into Kate's beautiful face. She was like
a tropical flower, he thought, with hei dusky
hair, perhaps somewhat coarse and brightened

by any gloss, but piled in masses on her
head. Her somewhat olive skin was tinged
warmly as a i-ipe peach, while the faintest soiqycon
of down marked a line above her scarlet lips.
But the chief features in her face were her great
lustrous eyes, that sometimes flashed upon one
unawares with wonderful light. They turned
on Ramsay slowly and full now, and seemed to
draw his gaze into their own depths and seek
to hold it fast.

Rousing himself from the spell, for Jack was
no schoolboy in such books as women's looks, he
became aware that a man was watching them
covertly across the table.

The man's gaze was so intent and jealous,
although instantly dropped on becoming aware
of Ramsay's notice, that the latter felt curious,
and gave him as scrutinizing a glance in return.
He was a rather small individual, with the fair
hair, reddish moustache, and ordinary blue eyes
so common with a certain type of Englishmen ;
one might easily see a dozen of them in a day,
fairly alike. But this one had a well-bred air,
and his face, despite that late jealous lowering

(^f the brows, was kindly and good-humoured,
although somewhat weak about the juouth and
uaiTOwing iu the forehead. Ho was sensitive,
too, for his skin — of that kind which tans a
scorching red with sun or wind — took a deeper
reddish hue than its natural freshness as he felt
.Jack's eyes upon him, and guessed the latter's
(question to Mrs. O'Brien.

^Vho is our opposite neighbour, can you tell
me ? I seem to know his face.'

0, that one ? — he is Mr. Cyril V}wian,' answered
Kate, carelessly, rather too much so to
a keen observer. ' First cousin to our hostess
and the heir to all she owns, I must warn you,
in case Violet should be rash enough to attempt
marrying anyone but a real live lord.'

The second time you have already warned
me this evening, Mrs. O'Brien, and I am deeply
obliged. But why should you bestow such
valuable adWce on a stranger — a mere bird of
passage V

Don't look so proud. Captain Ramsay,'
laughed Mrs. O'Brien, with a manner so soft
and a look so seductively beseeching, no man

VOL. I. E

could withstand it. ' I am too impulsive and
open in speech, I know ; but still I never have
the bad taste to cast my pearls before swine.
Only I am absurdly tender-hearted, and there
are some men whom one would not willingly
see wasting their thoughts where they are unhappily
thrown away.'

And you think, then, that mine are veering
towards the head of the table? Mrs. O'Brien,
what a bad compliment to yourself!' And
Ramsay cheerfully looked straight forward at
Violet Vyvian once more.

It is the third or fourth time your eyes have
wandered in that direction, at all events,' Kate
mischievously whispered. ' Come — honestly,
what do you think of my friend ? Don't you
admire her very much V

'No — but I think one might like her very
much. She looks a nice, sensible girl ; and
her expression is very taking. She seems to
put all her mind into whatever she says to anyone.'


x^nd, however he might disclaim it. Jack

looked with some sturdy admiration, partly
because it was forbidden fruit, at Violet's face
and figure. The girl showed, certainly, any
amount of intelligence and sympathy in her
features, her frank, well-opened eyes turning
now with quick attention upon Lord Guisard,
who was fatuously imagining himself particularly
amusing; and her pink nostrils were
dilating* slightly, which might be either from
keen interest or secret impatience. Violet
looked especially well in evening-dress. Her
shoulders were marvellously white, and had a
perfect droop, while her little head was well seton
her neck.

Lord Goosey ! — Yes ; she is giving him more
attention than / should. Do you know that he
is the only man in the county she could marry,
Ijccause of his title? Only, I hope she will not
really be so heartless and worldly.'

Is Miss Vivian worldly-minded ? If so, she
is only of a mind with most of the world,' said
Jack, lightly, yet conscious he was a little resentful

at the thought.

E 'J

LIBRARY

University OF ilunob

(As Miss Vivian's position was unusual, so it
would have been in keeping to find her different
from so many girls in society. She looked
so honest, unspoiled — yet how could sl really
frank, nice girl smile so pleasantly at that idiot
just now ? Rank and riches I Yes ; plainly
Violet worshipped them like the rest.)

No, no ; I will never say my greatest friend
is worldly answered Kate, in a lowered voice,
with eager defence. ' It would only be natural,
you will own, that she should thoroughly enjoy
her present good fortune, and — not wish to
forfeit it. Still, it would be an odious match,
would not it ? I am silly enough to care for a
little romance myself: life, otherwise, would
be all eating, and dressing, and paying the
bills.'

The pretty speaker played, apparently unconsciously,
with a gold bracelet on her arm, as
she spoke, sending a dreamy glance from under
her thick black eyelashes across the table into
seeming space.

But Cyril Vyvian, bending forward a moment,,
seemed eagerly to intercept it. A sudden light

oarae into his eves, makiiiii; him quite handsome
for the moment ; then he leant back, nervously
pulling his moustache with assumed indifference
that ill-concealed a wave of satisfaction
which spread over his face.

Hallo! what does that mean ?' thought .lack,
inquisitively, who had a wonderful knack of
seeing what went on around him. Aloud, he
said, carelessly, glancing sideways, * I like those
plain gold bangles. They always seem to me,
among other bracelets, like a wedding-ring
among jewelled ones.'

What I a keepsake, do you mean ? Rufus
gave me this,' replied Kate, with a nervous
laugh, making a quite unnecessary statement.


Then, changing her manner, she began to
talk, with bright, highly-seasoned raillery, of all
the guests around, fitting everyone with a fool's
cap to perfection in a way that would have
gained her plenty of healthy hatred, could her
neighbour's have heard her. Only Violet and
Mrs. Beaumont were spared.

Later on, when the juan came into the 

again, Kamsay tried to gain a few
minutes talk with Miss Yyvian. She was charming
in manner, as bright in her conversation as
in her clear gray glances. But, just as he was
beginning to enjoy his success, and to feel he
should soon get to know her, the young hostess
left him, after a few sentences, with a pretty
apology given in her quick, decided way. She
had to look after her other guests. Some of
the younger and merrier souls had eagerly adjourned
to the billiard-room across the hall,
which was soon full of light laughter and .
But a few quiet, or severe, old
ladies were left, who, like Lady Guisard, called
smoking, in that free-and-easy way, ' a sign
of the times ;' and Violet herself remained with
them for most of the evening, discussing Primrose
League meetings with apparent thorough
interest, while a few, fat, old squires sat by
from a heavy sense of decorum, longing, in
their hearts, to be with the young folk and in
the fun.

She is worldly !' decided Jack, chagrined at
thus receiving his cone, and he sought out

Margaret Beaiunout for a quiet chat in a corner
of the big drawing-room.

'And what do you think of Mrs. O'Brien V his
cousin presently inquired, after discussing family
news.

Well, she is very handsome I that

is not what you meant, eh ? AVhat else do you
want to know ? She was sentimental up to a
certain point ' (and, remembering the bracelet
incident, Jack grinned) ; ' then she grew caustic,
and was most amusing.'

Yes ; her tongue can be sharp enough.
She reminds me at times of a drop of vinegar
on a steel knife,' was Margaret's drily-gentle
retort.

0, come ! say a salad, rather ; oil mixed
with the vinegar, and a young gi-been lettuce-heart,'
laughed Jack. ' Where is she, I wonder
I must go and find her again.'

She may be in the conservatory. Shall we
go and see?'

Rising quickly, as if she had some private end
in view, Mrs. Beaumont led the way into a large
conservatory opening from a little passage beyond

the hall. Jack gave an admiring exclamation,
for a small edition of the palm-house
at Kew opened before his eyes. Great palms
towered before them in a moist, hot, green jungle,
through which a few coloured lamps shed a
mysterious glimmer, whilst the heavy scent of
gardenias and other hothouse plants pervaded
the atmosphere, and made it seem like fairyland.
It was a winter garden much higher and
larger than those belonging to most country-houses
equalling Forde Manor.

Margaret Beaumont went down the central
flagged path, talking in her soft sweet voice as
she went. Attracted by an orchid, however,
Jack did not follow her, but turned aside.
Suddenly he came round a monster tree-fern
upon Cyril Vyvian and Mrs. O'Brien together,
and could not help overhearing a fragment of
their conversation.

And so you still wear it sometimes. If you
knew how happy that makes me !'

Yes. I treasure it for your sake '

Mrs. O'Brien broke off in haste, and started
a little away, as Margaret Beaumont appeared

in the opposite direction to Jack, who was
enabled by this diversion to approach without
seeming an eavesdropper. In the most natural
manner, Kate Welcomed him sweetly, and, turning
from Cyril Vyvian, went presently to the
billiard-room with Ramsay at her side.

Ah ! my wife has been showing you the
conservatory,' said O'Brien, in his cheery honest
voice, as they came in together. ' By-the-way,
Ramsay, you are driving back alone to-night,
are you not ? Yes, I know. Old Mr. Bentley
has got a touch of gout, and sent an apology by
you, didn't he ? Well, I want to warn you to
look out at the cross-roads on the top of the
hill outside the park-wall. There is a ghost
there, a black shape, they say, that constantly
stops anyone driving by after dark, and gets up
if there is an empty seat.'

I'll give it every chance, and Avill capture it if
I can. Shall I bring it to you in a bottle of spirits
as a specimen, Miss Vyvian?' laughed Jack,
gaily, turning to Violet, who had allowed herself
to exchange duty with the dowagers for enjoyment
among her equals in age for a few minutes.

'Faith,' put in Rufus, *you remiucl mo of a
man near my own old home in Ireland who was
a terrible fellow for drink. Not that that was
the resemblance,' he added, apologetically, amid
a general burst of laughter, in which Jack heartily
joined. ' No, it was this. His family wanted
to cure him, so one of them dressed up as a
ghost and waited for him in a lonely lane one
night. So he just walked up to the ghost, as
bold as could be, only feeling a little curious on
the subject. And says he, " Are ye one of the
general resurrection, or are ye only taking a
ice (launder (anglice, saunter) by yourself?" '

Good-night, Captain Ramsay,' said Violet's
sweet voice, as Jack took his final leave. ' I
hope you will not meet with any ghost ; but I
sometimes think there is some one playing
foolish tricks, the superstition of our cross-roads
is so widely believed.'

Half-an-hour later, Mrs. O'Brien and Violet
were sitting together over the latter's bed-room
fire before separating for the night.
* Height I How tired I was to-night of all

those stupid, worthy, okl people,' exclaimed the
girl, With ail honest yawn, as she clasped her
hands above her head, while all her fair hair
fell down about her shoulders in ripping brown
wavelets touched with gold here and there by
the firelight.

'My poor dear, I knew you must be sick of
them all in your heart, especially of Lord
Goosey,' replied Kate, sympathetically, adding
with a merry laugh, ' That pale moustache of
his grows more objectionable than ever. It
looks so like a white tooth-brush stuck on his
upper lip.'

How did you like your gunner ? He seemed
very pleasant from the little talk I could have
with him,' went on Violet, dreamily.

'0, pretty well. His looks are his strong-point,
I fancy. He does well enough to flirt,
with,' was the evasive answer.

You certainly always contrive to amuse
yourself, Kate ; while 1 am a slave to duty —
duty — duty from morning to night.'

If we could only change places, I would take
your duties gladly for the sake of the compensation.

I should be perfectly selfish and hardhearted,
and enjoy myself till I was a grey old
woman. And that is what I advise you to do,
my dear. Good-night.'

Whereupon, Mrs. O'Brien retired to her
slumbers.

CHAPTER IV.

THE GHOST OF THE CROSS-ROADS.

About six o'clock on a winter night of bitter
wind and soaking rain, Jack Ramsay was driving
a dog-cart under difficulties by the park-wall
of Forde ]viator. It was a week after his
dinner there, and he was on his way to spend a
quiet evening at Littleforde with his cousin, Mrs.
Beaumont ; his old host being obliged to attend
a political meeting in the market-town from
which Ramsay had excused himself. ' soldiers
have no politics,' he said. But still he had Conservative
feelings, and the squire was a Liberal,
though a mild one. So Jack was pleased
enough to get the loan of a trap, and have a

comfortable chat with Margaret when he could
arrange about sending his horses over to her
house next week.

Ugh I what a beastly night he nevertheless
muttered to himself, after half-an-hour of it. ' I
almost wish I hadn't come.'

The rain was pouring off* Jack's 'deer-stalker'
in small waterspouts, as, with his hat crammed
over his eyes and his coat-collar pulled up to
his ears, he struggled on, feeling as cross as a
bear, and as wet as a water-rat. The night
was pitchy dark, except for the gleam of the
lamps on the muddy road. Coming to a pretty
stiff* piece of hill, Jack allowed the horse to take
matters more easily for a minute or two. There
were cross-roads on the top of the rise, and just
as he gained this last a voice suddenly cried out
of the darkness,

Hi ! stop ; stop.'

Jack involuntarily drew up, with the thought
that some one on that lonely road might be
wanting help. A dark shape came close to the
dog-cart and began getting up. Instantly the
thought of Rufus O'Brien's story, these ^ very

cross-roads, the ghost, flashed upon Jack's
memory.

Oh I that's your game, is it ? Not if I know
it !' lie as suddenly exclaimed, realising that to
struggle with an intruder who was once fairly
beside him, and yet to control a rather spirited
horse, would be no easy task. Laying a rough
grasp, therefore, upon a slight but very real
ilesh-and-blood arm, he flung the figure off,
sending it staggering backwards into the
hedge.

Rufus !' exclaimed the voice faintly. ' Don't
you know me ? Are you mad ? — I asked you to
look out for me.'

'Who is it, in heaven's name V asked Jack, a
horrible surmise stealing over him that those
woman's accents, coming With gasps through
the wind and rain, seemed somehow familiar.

He was out of the dog-cart in a trice, and had
led the horse nearer. The light of the lamp)
showed a woman's figure covered with a dark
macintosh, the hood of ^vhich was pulled over
her face. She was supporting herself with one
arm against the high bank where she had

fallen, while the other hand carried a small
basket.

'Are yon hurt?' Ramsay eagerly asked, bending
to look in her face ; then starting, exclaimed
in a shocked voice, 'Miss Vyvian ! How on
earth do you come here on such a night, and
alone, too T went on the young man ; Wondering
doubts of what such a strange prank could
signify crowding in his mind, as the girl remained,
as he fancied, proudly silent. 'Did I
hurt you dreadfully % I am so sorry — but I took
you for the ghost.'

Ah, the ghost ! yes. You have a very strong"
grip. Captain Ramsay, but my arm is better
now — it was rather painful at first,' said Violet,
in a faltering voice, and he guessed she felt
more shaken than she would own. ' Why I am
here, is, simply that I vv^ent to see a poor sick
Avoman in the village. Mr. O'Brien had driven
to the railway-station, and I asked him to pick
me up on his way back, as it is such a wet
night.'

Poor Jack was overcome With repentance at
the results of his mistake. He was so genuinely

soiTow-stricken over Violet's wrist, which he
examined quite reverently under the lamp to
make certain it was neither broken nor sprained,
and begged with such abashed humility to be
allowed to drive her home, now, as some reparation,
that the girl frankly consented. She
was quite sorry for him, in her fairness, so
tried to make him forget what after all was a
mistake for which he could not be blamed.

As Ramsay carefully helped her up beside
himself, and then through the rain and darkness
as he heard her clear sweet voice telling him of
the sick woman she had just left — a pitiful little
story — his preconceived ideas on the subject
of the M.F.H. of the Marshwood Vale Hounds
were completely upset. A girl who was such
a thorough sportswoman, who was so bright
in society and a capital hostess, he had never
expected to find her doing the sister of charity
on such a bitter night ; a blessed messenger
of relief to a dying woman with a terrible
disease.

Will you tell me, Miss Vyvian, do you really
like this sort of thing?' he asked, surprised.

VOL. I. r

To tell you the honest truth, I hate it returned
Violet, with a low laugh, in a tone of
confidence engendered by the feeling that they
were two solitary beings out there together in
the night and rain : interest in each other
seemed quite natural under the circumstances.
If you only knew the horrid sores I am asked to
look at ; the burns and scalds ! — and if I don't, it
would be thought a want of sympathy. They
never guess, poor people, how sick it makes me
feel.'

'Then why on earth do it? There are plenty
of women who really like amateur doctor's
work ; why should you go against your natural
feelings in this way V

'Because it is my duty. Captain Ramsay.
Really, there is no one else to do it in this parish ;
and, after all, it is not more tiresome than half
my other duties, which some people say they
envy me,' said Violet, with a little bright laugh.

*What other duties, I wonders queried
Ramsay, fascinated by that cheery musical
sound, and bending nearer in the vain endeavour
to see something of his companion's face

under her peaked hood, from which the rain was
shooting in a small water-spoilt. * You love
the hounds, I am pretty certain ; and you play
the hostess so capitally, you ought to like that
too.'

'I can assure you that often I am sick to death
of both,' said Violet Vyvian in a so utterly changed,
low, serious voice that Jack was roused by
the revelation of this girl's true inner self shown
to him for a moment. ' Of course I love the dear
old hounds, and they know me, too, everyone of
them ! and I delight in a good run occasionally
above all other excitement on earth. But still,
for a woman to look forward to being obliged
for years and years to lead this same hunting
life ; to go out wet or fine ; and to have bo much
to decide upon always besides one's own province
of household affairs (for good Rufus
O'Brien is so conscientious, he is not happy unless
I see into everything myself) — can yon not
understand that I feel the burden heavy sometimes,
and wish my dear old father had allowed
me to lead the same life as other girls V

I can, indeed. You need some man to do it

f2

for you, and to take the burden off your
shoulders,' said Jack, rashly, with honest
feeling.

No answer came for a moment from under the
rain-sodden hood. Jack almost blushed to himself.
Idiot that he was ! How could he have
alluded to marriage in that way, to a girl whose
only present chance of a husband and helpmate
in life was Lord Goosey ?

Violet went on somewhat drily, as if overlooking
his interruption,

Then you are very kind to praise my manners
as a hostess. Captain Ramsey. But now, honestly,
chat great pleasure do you think I could have
taken the other night in the people it was my
obligation to entertain V

None at all, I must confess,* laughed Jack,
much relieved to find his slip of the tongue
passed over ; and more to discover Violet had
not been worldly, after all, as he fancied when
devoting herself to old Lady Guisard. 0,
hasty judgment of youth ! He was ready to
condemn or be loud in praise, according as
frown or smile on a fair face fell to his share.

And I should have enjoyed myself much
more, if you could have talked a little longer to

So should I,' laughed Violet in turn, infected
by his frank honesty of voice that hardly
seemed paying a compliment. 'But such luck
as doing just as one likes is seldom my lot, iTuless
^vhen I get a chance of laying aside my duties
and being off to London. I tell Kate — Mrs.
O'Brien — she has far more real fun in life than I
have.'

It suddenly struck Jack Ramsay, with a sense
of pity, how he had heard it said, when he first
came down into this country, that Violet Vyvian
had never had a lover. Never, in the sense of
encouraging anyone who really cared for herat
least. She behaved so well, the old squire
said, with approving nods ; she was an example
of propriety and perfect obedience to her dead
father's wishes, and not a horrid flirting creature
like .Mrs. O'Brien, who simply * imposed upon
her,' said the neighbouring matrons.

Poor girl — what a lonely life thought Jack,
with sincere commiseration, conjuring up a

mental picture of the uncongenial husband or
lifelong solitude to which this 3'oung creature
seemed condemned.

It was not, too, as if she was neither sweet
nor lovable. By Jove ! no ; he had seldom met
with a more engaging companion ; there was a
nameless sympathy, a stealing fascination about
her manner when one was long in her company,
that Jack found irresistible. He put out, without
effort, all his own greatest powers of agreeableness,
therefore ; and, when they drove up to
the door of Forde Manor, both felt as if dana
of meeting each other at dinners and covert-side
would not have made them such friends as
now they were by mute consent, drawn by the
bonds of youth and of sympathy between two
natures that suited each other.

By the way, there is to be some rough shooting
here on Monday,' said Violet, as she prepared
to alight, suddenly gladly remembering
Rufus had made arrangements to that effect.
Would you care to come over V

Jack Ramsay very readily accepted the
invitation.

A quarter-of-an-bour afterwards, lie found
himself entering Littleforde House, very considerably
later than he would have been but
for meeting Miss Vyvian on the high-road, only
no longer in an ill-humour. On the contrary,
quite a glow of satisfaction irradiated his face
as he sat down in Margaret Beaumont's cosy
drawing-room and related his adventure by a
bright fire over a cup of tea. Margaret
(though the most famous of housekeepers, and
especially proud of her five-o'clock teas) absolutely
forgot to hand the hot muffins, and
waited with the dish-cover in her hand, as she
listened to the tale.

It is so like Violet, to be off in any weather
like that,' she said, with gentle approval, though
not meditating for an instant following the
example.

You would not go and do likewise, though '?
But I forgot — you are far too delicate,' said
Jack, changing his chaffing tone ; for Mrs.
Beaumont suffered indeed severely from her
heart.

Everyone has their gift,' returned his

cousin, smiling. ' I am rather glad district-visiting
is out of the question for me, for what
between housekeeping, and my pet poultry, and
looking after Dolly here, my time is quite
full.'

She stooped to caress a chubby five-year-old
fairy as she spoke, who, with praiseworthy
zeal, was seated under the tea-table, her legs
stretched straight before her, picking up the
crumbs off the carpet, she declared.

You see, my daughter inherits my love of
tidiness,* said Margaret, with motherly pride.
Unfortunately Jack, with a grin, discovered that
the young lady was transferring any specially
luscious morsel of either buttery muffin or a
sticky currant to her own rosy lips instead of to
the adjacent grate.

On the subject of Violet Vyvian, Mrs. Beaumont
grew quite eloquent, though a conversational
stillness and general looking after
her guests' comfort was more her usual vein
than prolonged talkativeness. Jack easily drew
her out; he did not say much himself, but
listened with a conscious pleasure to the praises

of his late companion. At last he observed,
meditatively,

Queer, isn't it ? To think the only man
she can many — that is to say, hereabouts — is
that fellow Guisard."

'Why should he be the only one?' said Margaret,
in a quiet voice.

Why — because, failing a husband with a
title, I was told all the property goes to Cyril
Vyvian.'

Exactly so ! Cyril is a very good fellow, I
think, worth far more than many a one with a
coronet.'

What ! you mean, then? — I see I you think
she might marry her cousin. What a matchmaker
you are, upon my word, Margaret. Only,
are you quite sure he is likely to be smitten in
that quarter V

Jack's tone was ever so slightly sarcastic.
Without cause he felt some chagrin at the idea.

I am certain Cyril would really be attached
to Violet if he were only left alone,'
declared Margaret, with some heat. ' They have
been good friends ever siucc they were little

children, and he would make her an excellent
husband. 1 mean to work my best for it, anyhow.'
(So that was the meaning of" Mrs.
Beaumont's seemingly innocent move to the
conservatory the other evening.) Jack briefly
acquiesced ; he supposed it ' Avould be a good
thing for Miss Vyvian.'

Meanwhile, Violet herself had peeped with
rosy-flushed face and rain-soaked garments into
the boudoir where Kate O'Brien, in a becoming
tea-gown, lay stretched on a sofa with a French
novel fallen from her listless hand.

So there you are at last I I would get up
and kiss you for being so good, only I am too
lazy,' was Mrs. O'Brien's welcome to her friend
and hostess. ' I hope that good-for-nothing
husband of mine picked you up in time, dear.'

No ! Rufus has missed me somehow. But
some one else found me on the road, and drove
me back ; — whom do you think V laughed Violet,
^vith dancing eyes. * Why, your handsome
gunner !'

Not Captain Ramsay V Kate sat bolt upright.


My dear Violet, how could you do such a
thing V expostulated the duenna, as Mrs. Kate
called herself, in a grave, shocked voice. ' No !
I don't mean about the shooting — though, as it
is a small party, some people may wonder at
your asking a perfect stranger — but to have it
said that you were driving alone at night with
this young man ; Miss Vyvian of Forde ! It will
set everybody talking.'

Then let them talk ! And, as to the shooting,
I suppose I may exercise some little choice as
to my own guests,' declared Violet, half-vexed.
yet resolved to be cheerful defiant. 'Come,
Kate, you know perfectly I don't flirt; and, if I
did, you could not well throw stones.'

Precisely so, dear child. People know you
don't flirt, so they will lee all the more surprised

when this vagrant artillery captain
boasts of his evening's adventure (as he is sure
to do)' said Kate, slowly rising from her couch
with a mildly persuasive, regretful air. ' Don't
hate me for warning you, my dearest. AVhat
right, what reason have I to do so but as your
best friend? Of course, I flirt myself; but as
Rufus does not object no one else can say a
word. Only, my poor Violet, you are not a
married woman.'

No ; nor ever Hkely to be,' said Violet
Vyvian, shortly, as she marched out with her
head high. ' It is all nonsense ! 1 won't mind !'
she stoutly declared to herself in her own room.
But she did mind. The bloom was gone from
the memory of her pleasant night drive ; and it
had been so pleasant. She could not justly
quarrel in her own mind with Kate, either,
whose loyalty and affection she never doubted
for an instant. Old Squire Vyvian had brought
up his motherless little girl in a rather lonely
way at Forde Manor. His own society ; an
easy-going governess ; and taking her out with
the hounds from the time she could sit her pony ;

THE GHOST OF THE CROSS-ROADS. 77

these were amusements enough for her, he had
decided. It was only when Violet grew tall
and pale, and showed signs of melancholy about
sixteen, that the old family doctor declared she
was moped for want of congenial companionship
with young girls of her own age. So, for a
year she was sent to a very select and expensive
school, where the heretofore lonely girl
warmly returned the violent friendship formed
for her by her schoolfellow Kate. Then old
]mr. Yyvian grew ill, and Violet went home.
About eighteen months ago she had found herself
mistress of Forde Manor, and was delighted
to welcome Kate and her penniless husband
as friends and her caretakers in the eyes of Mrs,
Grundy.

A ROUGH SHOOT.

Ten o'clock on a bright fino morning, and the
hoar-frost still covered the ground with a white
mantle in those spots where the rays of the
January sun had not yet penetrated.

Jack, as he drove up to the front-door
of Forde Manor, was greeted by Rufus and
Cyril Vyviau, Who were smoking their pipes
under the portico, impatiently awaiting his
arrival.

Come in,' said Rufus, heartily, extending a
great brown hand. ' Come in, and have just a
taste of the " rather " to warm you up after
your drive and keep your eye straight.'

Thanks,' returned Jack, stamping about and
clapping his half-numbed hands together, ' I
will, for I'm half-frozen.'

Entering the dining-room, he found it tenanted
by Violet and Lord Guisard, the former
leaning against the mantel-piece talking to the
latter, who was gazing stolidly out of the window.
His lordship had evidently been trjung
to make himself agreeable after his fashion, but,
from the bored expression on Violet's face, had
not had much success.

That's an awfully fetching dress of yours,
Miss Vyvian, and just suits a good-looking girl
like you,' he had begun.

Thank you for the compliment on my dress,
my lord, but pray, for the future, omit your
remarks on the wearer,' with a scornful little
toss of her head.

Come, come, mayn't a chap tell a girl she's
good-looking without her kicking over the
traces? You'll never do for double-harness, if
you don't bend to your bit better.'

Kicking over the traces ! Double-harness I
What do you mean? You know I hate pretty

speeches and compliments, which are never
sincere.'

You won't mind them from me, though, will
you T returned his lordship, with a leer that was
intended to be intensely fascinating, but had
really the effect of making him look somewhat
like a sick vulture. ' If you only knew how

awfully spoony I am on ' But here his

remarks were cut short by Jack's entrance,
which produced a decided scowl on the lordly
brow ; and, with a brusque nod and a curt
morning' ' to the latter, he stalked off to the
window.

How do you do. Miss Vyvian ? I am almost
ashamed to meet you, after my brutal conduct
to you the other night. I do hope you are none
the worse V said Jack, with perhaps just a shade
of tenderness in his voice.

1 no, thank you,' replied that young
lady, somewhat coldly ; but she felt the colour
mounting to her cheeks, for somehow, try
as she might, she could not but feel attracted
towards this man. *But what will you
have V she added, remembering her position

as hostess, and turning away towards the side-table.


I Avould rather have a cup of hot coffee than
anything else, if you will give it me,' responded
our hero, who, though he answered lightly, was
secretly vexed at the altered tone of Violet's
demeanour.

Slops'll do you no good,' grunted his
lordship from the window. * Better have a
B-and-S.'

This exhilarating beverage Jack declined,
and during the discussion of his coffee vainly
endeavoured to draw Violet into conversation.
All his attempts, however, proved futile, and
so he and Lord Guisard proceeded to join the
party outside, where Rufus was engaged giving
some last instructions to the keeper and beaters.
On their passage through the hall, they encountered
Kate O'Brien, who gi-meted Jack
effusively, and who, as she shot a glance at
him from her dark eyes, allowed her baud to
remain in his perhaps a trifle longer than was
necessary.

'We are to join you for lunch, you know,
VOL. I. G

Captain Ramsay; and then 1 shall back your
gun at the hot corner,' she observed, archly.

'I am afraid, Mrs. O'Brien, you will lose, if
you are so imprudent returned Jack, a shade
of annoyance passing over his handsome countenance
; for he did not like this sort of barefaced
apparent admiration. 'You will generally
find it safer to back the bird ; and, remember,
I have given you fair warning,' he added,
laughingly.

It had been proposed by the keeper that they
should devote the morning to 'driving' partridges
and trying the hedge-rows, as well as
beating an out-lying spiny or two, whilst a
covert of some forty acres — that had only been
shot once during the season, and which was a
favourite haunt of woodcock — was reserved for
the afternoon's sport.

All being ready, the party made a move, and,
after a mile's walk, arrived at their ground,
some rough grass and rush-grown fields, where
the first drive was to commence. Here the
four guns were placed in line, some hundred
yards apart, behind a big, straggling bank, surmounted

by a thick growth of hazel, high
enough to make the birds rise well as they topped
it. To Jack and Lord Guisard were assigned
the places of honour in the centre, whilst Rufus
and Cyril guarded the flanks.

In the meantime the beaters had made a considerable
detour in order to drive some adjoining
fields in which the expected coveys would
probably be found. After about a 
s waiting a large flock of starlings, accompanied
by a few field fares, dashed over with a cry
of alarm, and soon they are followed by the cry of
]\I-a-a-r-k o-over, ma-ark,' faintly borne on the
wintry breeze. A solitary bird comes whizzing
over the tall hazels straight for Rufus, who stops
him neatly in mid-career. Then * swish,' like
lightning, comes a strong covey between Jack
and his lordship, who salute them with four
barrels, the result being three down, whilst
another as he reaches the end of the field towers
suddenly up, and then slowly descends in that
gyrating flight which so well denotes a dead
bird. Following these, three single birds come
over; one is killed by Jack, while his lordship

g2

misses the others, and consequently uses a good
deal of bad language.

This drive over, another was begun, and here
the position of the guns was slightly altered, as
they were placed just below the brow of a hill
over which the driven birds skimmed low.
Here they had some very pretty shooting, as
covey after covey came swinging along at the
top of their speed, aided by a favourable breeze
at their backs. A confiding hare or two was
also added to the bag.

The next two drives, however, were not quite
so successful, the birds breaking back and
declining to face the guns. Great was Lord
Guisard's wrath.

What an infernal old fool that keeper is !' he
said, turning to Jack.

I don't see that it is the keeper's fault,' was
the quiet reply.

Can't you? Well, I can. If were master
here, I'd pretty soon send that old idiot about
his business.'

Cad,' muttered Jack to himself ; but to his
lordship he merely replied coldly, 'Well, my

lord, as you are not master here, don't you think
it is somewhat questionable taste, finding fault
with your hostess's servants V

Ugh !' was the rejoinder, grunted forth by
the boorish peer, * it is all very well for you who
have all the shooting, but / don't come all this
way to see things mismanaged ;' and he stalked
off.

It was now suggested that the party should
divide and try some hedgerows which converged
towards a small copse some half-a-mile distant.
Rufus and Jack formed one party, whilst Lord
Guisard and Cyril Vyvian composed the other.
Each division was accompanied by a few
beaters and a brace of well-broken, liver-coloured
spaniels. Very pretty sport they have,
too, as the little dogs bustle along the broad
tops of the double banks, now putting up a
rabbit, which pops out only to try and pop back
again before his career is cut short by a charge
of No. 0) shot. Then a hare sneaks forth, and,
laying back her long ears, stretches away at her
best pace. Jack is too quick for her, however,
for ere she has covered forty yards she is rolled

over stone-dead. A few cock-pheasants afford
easy shots, and were added to the bag. On
reaching the spiny Jack and Rufus found the
other guns had not added greatly to the bag,
his lordship loudly cursing his gun, his cartridges,
the beaters and dogs, all of which, he
maintained, had contributed to his bad shooting.
Cyril held his tongue, but Winked and glanced
significantly at Eufus, who good-humouredly
remarked,

*Ah! never mind. You'll do better after
lunch, perhaps.'

To this meal they presently adjourned after
beating the spiny, out of which a woodcock
flapped in an owl-like manner, right into Lord
Guisard's face, and was fairly missed by that
nobleman.

On arriving at the under keeper's cottage the
sportsmen met Violet and Kate, who were busy
unpacking the contents of the luncheon-basket.
In this they were assisted by the gentlemen,
with the exception of Lord Guisard, who, remarking
that ' it was deuced cold,' proceeded to

place his back to the fire, and monopolize what
little warmth it gave out.

Violet's conversation was mostly addressed to
Cyril, and she studiously avoided speaking
to Jack more than was necessarily dictated by
courtesy.

Who was it missed the woodcock ? I hear
one was seen,' asked Kate.

There is the culprit,' rejoined Jack, pointing
to Lord Guisard, ' and I am afraid he can hardly
excuse himself for '

Now Jack, as a rule, was the most courteous
of men, and under ordinary circumstances
would never have been guilty of a remark like
the above, which certainly flavoured of rudeness,
but he was disgusted with his lordship's
boorish manner, and had conceived a decided
antipathy to him.

You would have done the same,' savagely
interrupted Guisard, ' if your fool of a fellow
had sent you out with the wrong gun. Come,
I'm ready to Jack myself against you for the
remainder of the day.'

I never bet hardly, and should hardly care
to back myself against such a professor,' was
the somewhat sarcastic reply.

« ! afraid of losing your money, I suppose,'
sneered the now angry peer.

Well, perhaps I am ; but I tell you what I
don't mind doing. Let us four men have a
sweepstakes. Each put in a sovereign, and he
who kills the first woodcock wins the lot.'

Done,' chimed in E-ufus. ' We'll ask Miss
Vyvian to be stakeholder,' he added, and forthwith
four golden sovereigns were deposited on
the table-cloth and handed over to Violet's
keeping.

A charming idea,' smiled Kate ; ' and if you
win, Captain Ramsay, as a preux chevalier you
will make over your winnings to me, won't
you ? — for I'm going to risk my little pile on
you. Come, my lord,' she added, turning to
Lord Guisard, ' I'll back Captain Ramsay's
shooting against yours— shall we say for a
dozen pairs of gloves ? I will walk with you
and keep your score, whilst Violet shall keep
Captain Ramsay's. Is it a bet?'

I very well ; but I liatc having a woman
talking and bothering me out shooting; they
are always in the way,' was the ungracious
rejoinder.

All the butter for me, if that is the effect
the society of us poor women has upon you ;*
and, rising up, Kate made him an ironical little
curtsey ; then, turning to Jack — ' Now, Captain
Ramsay, do your best, and, as my champion,
wear my colours.' So saying, she detached a
bunch of violets from her bosom and pinned
them into Jack's button-hole.

As she did so a look of pain passed over
Cyril's face, and he bit his lip hard. Rufus —
good cheery Rufus — was accustomed to these
little flirtations of his wife's, and took no notice
beyond good-humouredly remarking, ' Well,
Kate, if you lose, don't expect me to pay your
debts ; now let us be moving.'

Just then, however, a pony-carriage pulled
up in the narrow lane down which the beaters
were already trooping, and Margaret Beaumont
alighted.

'How do you do, dear?' and she greeted

Violet v/ith an affectionate kiss. ' I was driving
this way, and thought I would like just to look
on at the shooting for a little while — that is, if
I am not in the way.'

Not at all,' broke in Jail. ' You are just intime
to see a most sporting wager decided
between Mrs. O'Brien and Lord Guisard; and
now you are here, Mrs. Beaumont, we will
enlist your services. Come,' turning to Kate,
will you have the same bet on with me, Mrs.
O'brien ? 1 am quite willing to back myself
against Captain Ramsay. Mrs. Beaumont can
keep his score and Violet shall keep mine.'

A shade of annoyance flitted across Jack's
countenance ; but he merely answered, coolly,

I am sure Miss Vyvian will find more work
with her score-list with you than if she accompanied
me, so let it be so.'

And thus it was agreed. On the way to the
covert Cyril and Violet maintained an apparently
animated conversation, which the former
in his heart of hearts hoped was as gall and
wormwood to Kate.

The covert was a very snug one, lying on the

gentle slope of a hill faoiiii^- tbr south, with a
little meandering stream trickling along its-bottom.
Tlu^ top side was composed of tall
oaks and birch-trees, with a dense undergrowth
of hazel and brambk's, which struggled
out from amid groat boulders and weatherworn
rocks covered with dead bracken, thick
enough for game to hide under, and at the same
time afford them plenty of room to move about,
whilst the soft, boggy ground, and thick alder
clumps bordering the stream, spoke well for its
being a favourite haunt for Woodcock.

It was divided into square patches hy well-cut
grass rides, which greatly facilitated the
beating as Avell as the shooting.

The top side was to be beaten first, and on
all sides the constant tapping of the small boys
who had been sent on as * stops,' to keep the
birds from running out, resounded clear on the
frosty air. These urchins were delighted at the
part they had to play in the proceedings, and no
doubt at the close of the day would tell each
other wonderful tales of their deeds of prowess
in turning back a sneaking old cock-pheasant

or some particularly wily hare ! At length the
line of beaters was arranged, and only awaited
the signal to begin.

E-ufiis and Jack were to take one ride, one to
be forward, the other in a line with the beaters
alternately, whilst the same arrangement was to
be carried out on the other side of the strip to
be beaten by Lord Guiscard and Cyril.

And now the beat begins. The old keeper
has got his forces in good order and well disciplined.
No shouting, or ' hi-cock-hi-cock !' does
he allow. His orders to the beaters are imperative,
viz., merely to keep line, and tap the trees
and bushes as they advance, and an}^ beater
infringing these commands knows he will
not be employed again. Each gun is allowed
to shoot four hen birds, and no more. Rufus,
Avhen the guns are properly posted, gives a
whistle and then the fun begins.

several hen-pheasants rose first and came
speeding over Jack, who dropped one, whilst
Rufus did likewise with another. Then sundry
cocks were seen running on; one popped right
out into the ride, and, catching sight of Jack,

got up ill a terrible commotion ; but hu was too
late, for, as he got clear up over the top of a
tall oak, his flight was suddenly arrested by
Ramsay, and with a thud he crashed through
the branches, leaving only a few feathers floating
in the air to mark his downward course. In
the meantime the other guns were likewise busy,
and the reports came quick and sharp in rapid
succession. And so the game went on, little piles
of tell-tale cartridge-cases accumulating in the
rides till all the topside was beaten. Then the
lower part was taken, and here Jack and Lord
Guisard were sent forward, and their shooting
was fairly good.

After a successful right and left Jack was
reloading when Margaret Beaumont said, excitedly,


Look. Jack, there is a woodcock coming-straight
over Lord Goosey's head.'

Yes, there came the 'long bill,' Happing
lazily along, but apparently unseen by the
lordly sportsman.

*■ Woodcock to you,' sung out Jack, and as he
did so Lord Goosey caught sight of the coveted

prize. Throwing himself back, he pitched up
his gun and tired ; but the bird was past him,
and at the report twisted rapidly in his flight,
and, uninjured, skimmed back towards the side
of the covert some fifty odd yards from Jack.

« Always fire at a woodcock, no matter how
far,' was Jack's creed, and he let the wily cock
have both barrels. A lucky pellet finds a billet
in the soft-fleshed body of poor Scolopax, and
down it comes fluttering to the ground.

Well done. Captain Ramsay,' called out Kate.
This, and the fact of having missed the bird
himself, in no wise improved Lord Guisard's
temper, and his shooting became worse and
worse, two more woodcock escaping on his
side.

At length it was all over; the game was
gathered, and laid out on the greensward in
one of the rides, and a very respectable show it
made : fifty-three cock-pheasants, twelve hen-pheasants,
twenty-three hares, sixty-eight rabbits,
one woodcock, and a jay — that marauder
having been foolish enough to risk his life by
crossing Rufus' path. Not a bad total for a

'rough shoot,' considering the addition to the
bag made in the morning of some fifty odd
head !

Much interest was now displayed as to who
had won — Jack, Lord Guisard, or Cyril, and
the three fair score-keepers were soon busy adding
up their totals. At length the result was
announced ; Lord Guisard, twenty-four ; Cyril,
fifty-four ; Jack, fifty-three.

Never mind, Captain Ramsay, you did your
best ; and in consideration of having won the
sweepstakes and one bet for me, I'll forgive you
for losing the other ;' and Kate looked bewitchingly
at him with her full dark eyes.

I am very sorry mrs. O'Brien, you should have
had such d, faineant knight, but 1 hope the more
solid advantages of the sweepstakes will make
some small amends for my other short-comings,'
returned Jack, coldly ; for he was disgusted with
the open way Kate expressed her admiration
for him, and was determined to show it.

On the way home he vainly endeavoured to
draw Violet into conversation, but that young
lady wrapped herself in a mantle of reserve, and,

as soon as he attempted to allude to their
adventure at the cross-roads, changed the conversation.
This, as is natural in human nature,
made Jack all the keener to elicit an explanation
; but all his efforts proved abortive, and on
leaving Forde Manor that evening he had to
confess himself beaten.

CHAPTER YI.

A QUICK FORTY MINUTES.

About a fortnight had elapsed since the ,
and as yet Jack had not had an opportunity
of asking Violet the reason for her altered
demeanour towards himself, which, put it how
he would, he could not explain.

Was it that unlucky remark of his during the
drive ? No, that could not be the cause, for they
lead parted perfectly good friends. How then
had he offended ? lie had in the interim met
Violet one day at Margaret Beaumont's, whither
he had now transferred himself and his horses ;
but other visitors being present he had been
unable to talk to her on the subject ho had at

VOL. I. H

heart. Neither had the hunting-field afforded
an occasion for demanding explanations, since
Violet, who was suffering from a cold, had been
obliged to appoint Rufns as deputy to her
position.

< All things come to him who knows how to
wait,' it is said, and the truth of this adage was
verified in our hero's case ; for one fine mild day
in mid-February he at last met her. It was on
this wise :

The Marshwood Vale Hounds had met at a
place called Compton Cross Roads, and Jack, who
arrived somewhat late, was only Justin time to see
them find and go away with a burning scent.
There were but few people out, but Ramsay,
as he topped his first fence on Harlequin, saw
Violet's scarlet jacket gleaming as usual in the
van. A mile or so of grass, some eight to ten
fences of various sorts, and a lucky turn in his
favour at last put him on terms with the pack.
Hounds had, however, slightly flashed over the
fine, and required old Tom's assistance. Seeing
they could make nothing of the line that worthy
caught hold of them, and by a bold forward cast

once more bit the line of his fox, and the pack
took up the scent with a drive and dash that evidently
meant business.

On, on they speed — now Tom leading, now
Pile on a raw four-year old who Alas being taught
the way he should go, and anon Violet to whom
at the check Jack had only time to Eft his hat
and utter a hasty * good-morning.'

The fox was evidently heading towards the
far stretching downs that loomed out grey in the
distance, but with such a scent he must be a
good one to reach their sanctuary. The country,
though, was in his favour — instead of the good
sound pastures, fl^dng fences, and cut and laid
doubles they had up to now traversed, they had
got on to cold bad scenting-land ; heavy clay
ploughs that cropped up occasionally, intersected
by bottomless 'goyles,' and great straggling,
hairy, blind fences, all tended to give the pursued
a decided advantage over the pursuers.

Hitherto they had been running up-wind for
some ten minutes with but the one trifling
check before alluded to. Suddenly hounds
threw up in a narrow lane close to a cottage

II 2

out of which an angry cur bounded with an
indignant bark.

Cuss them cur dogs,' muttered old Tom, who
took in the situation at a glance, * that brute has
turned 'im, I'll lay a guinea. Folks have no
business to keep such beasts,' he added, with
resentment, as he turned his horse's head, and
held the pack down the lane, giving a sly cut at
the cur dog as he passed. * A-ats ere, Parody,
old lady, there's the line,' he ejaculated, as an
old badger-pied bitch feathered under the bank,
and then threw her tongue as she scrambled
up.

The eager pack flew to her cry and took
up the line across the grass field beyond, and
somewhat in the direction they had come from.
All the field, most of whom knew the country,
clattered down the lane, but Jack, whose one
thought was to be with hounds, turned in at
a gate that a small boy was holding open.
Only Pile, Violet, and Kate O'Brien followed
him across a couple of fields. Then they were
confronted by an apparently impassable ravine,
or ' boyle.'

By Jingo ! we're done, captain exclaimed
the hard-riding farmer. ' What a fool I was not
to remember this place,' he muttered, as, turning
his horse round, he galloped back in the
direction of the lane, followed by Kate O'Brien.

Violet's first inclination was to do likewise,
but at that moment Jack's quick eye caught
sight of a rail-mended gap in the thick fence
that bordered the ravine.

Do wait a minute. Miss Vyvian, we may be
able to get over here,' said he, in a low voice,
and there was so much entreaty in his tone that
Violet acceded.

On arriving at the spot it proved to be just
practicable to a clever, steady hunter, provided
the rail was removed. Jack soon dismounted,
and, applying all his strength, smashed the
offending piece of timber. Still, even with this
dislodged, it was an awkward, decidedly awkward
spot. A horse would have to slide down
through «i lot of dead fern and brambles on to a
sort of small ledge, and from thence it was a
sheer drop of some seven feet over a little
stream.

I think I could manage to get over, Miss
Vyvian, as old Harlequin will creep anywhere
but I hardly like asking you to ride over it ;
will you get off and let me lead your horse
over V queried Jack, after an examination of
the spot.

At this proposal, which almost threw a doubt
on her horsemanship, Violet's pride rebelled,
and, flushing up to the roots of her hair, she
replied, coldly,

I am not in the habit of getting off, Captain
Ramsay, and don't mind going first : will you
please move on one side.'

The covert sarcasm of offering a Mead' to
him, Jack, as good a rider as ever crossed a
horse, and one well-known between the flags on
many a steeplechase course, stung him to the
quick.

Certainly not ; if either of us go at the place,
you must concede the honour of leading to me,'
retorted he, somewhat hotly ; and, jumping on
Harlequin's back, he walked him up to the
gap.

The sensible animal poked its nose out, and,

7 ^ ^^^^ Over the bond

■ . : m to the nary

now Yi

■^Ll

asHav-v . ;■ . and evinced a di-r^ :::::- : .i-
cline. inter Violet's fist hand, he

ev : /.fl np to the bank, and,

w: ^ ■ r:2ibKngof theforelegjs,

siitiiered dowi- i. : :„ ^^- Amved here
he seemed r : - — !i moment, it

seemed as if L:;. .^l , : fall into the

depths below.

Jack, looking on, felt almost sick at what he
jnsdj considered the imminent peril of the
woman whom, in his secret heart, he was beginning
to think more of than he cared to own.
He got hot and cold bj turns, but durst not
speak.

But Yiolet had not ridden and hunted £com a

child for nothing ; with all her wits about her,
combined With courage and a cool head, she
seized the moment when her recalcitrant mount
had his head straight and was shivering over
the brink to give him a sharp cut with her .
This little reminder had the desired
effect, for, springing out with a great soaring
bound, he landed on the far side — on his nose
truly, but with a peck and a scramble he was up
again in a trice, and — it was no fall !

Thank God,' muttered Jack. * Now, come
along ; we'll soon catch hounds up again,' he
added, louder.

The opposite bank, though high, sloped more
gradually, and had to a certain extent been
worn away by cattle coming down to drink ;
and so they experienced no great difficulty in
surmounting it.

As they reached the summit, and set their
horses going, Violet, who had noticed the expression
on Jack's face, and felt that she had
been unduly severe, observed,

Thank you for the lead. Captain Ramsay.
What a good little beast that is of yours.'

Now Nothing pleases a sportsman — a real
sportsman, mind I — more than praise bestowed
on the good horse he rides ; and these few words
of commendation bestowed on his favourite, and
by Violet, were a decided solace to Jack's
wounded feelings. With a blush of gratified
pride that made him appear still handsomer
than even his usual good-looking self, he patted
Harlequin's arched neck, as, standing in his
stirrups, he merely responded,

Thank you for Harlequin, Miss Vyvian. Such
a remark, coming from your lips, is worth a
great deal to us both.'

But it was uo time for talking, or paying
compliments. Hounds were still running hard a
field a-head, and, save themselves, not a soul was
in sight. Fence after fence they took together,
but still no nearer could they get to those dappled
forms flitting along in front of them. Some
five-and-twenty minutes had elapsed since the
passage of the ' boyle,' and the pace began to tell.
Harlequin, good, honest, little animal tithe was,
commenced to sob a bit : his stride was laboured
and shorter, but with all the gameness of the

Arab blood that coursed through his veins he
still cocked his ears on approaching each fence,
and never made a mistake. Violet's horse, even
with her light weight, was beginning to show
signs of distress, and to hang heavy on his mistress's
hand. His rider too was exhausted, and her
white face and quivering lip showed that she
was feeling the effects of such prolonged exertion
as much as her este-ed.

And now hounds, instead of keeping the
straight-forward course they had hitherto maintained,
swung round to the left, then turned
to the right ; in fact, it was evident the fox was
beginning to run short. Fortunately', a handy
line of gates enabled Jack and Violet to reach
the pack without calling on their now distressed
horses for much further exertion in the shape
of jumping. Entering a field by one of these.
Jack viewed the beaten fox crawling along the
fence at the far end ; the pack — who had also
caught a view — were, with hackles up, straining
every muscle to encompass the death of their
hereditary foe.

Tally-ho ! yonder he goes,' screamed Jack,

his handsome face beaming with excitement
and maddened With that delirium of the chase
which can only be appreciated by one who has
ridden through a really good run : then, clapping
spurs to Harlequin, he bustled down the field at
the best pace that poor animal could command.
Violet, his distressed horse, everything, was flung
to the winds. He had only one thought. There
was the fox not two hundred, yards ahead, and
only one fence between them ! Had he been
riding a camel, a donkey, or any other animal
innocent of the power and knowledge to negotiate
a stiff fence, it was not in Jack's nature not to
try to get close to hounds under such temptation.
Moreover, he had Violet's eyes upon him. Had
even the Thames, or any other navigable river,
been in front of him, he would have felt bound
to brave the obstacle and get over it — somehow !
Formidable the fence was certainly, particularly
on a beaten horse, and of a nature that
would have guide nine men out of ten think
twice before they rode at it — in fact, it was an
instance where discretion would have been the
better part of valour. But Jack's blood was

up, and, with that wild delirium pervading
him of which poor Whyte Melville so aptly
sings :

Oh ! it-worth the risk to life and limb and neck, boys, ,
To see them drive and stoop,
Till they finish with who-whoop !
Forty minutes o'er the grass without a check, boys !'

he only saw a little draggled, spent form
struggling onward with bent back, and 
couple of hounds howling and tumbling
along after it frantic for blood.

The fence in question was a stiff flight of
new oaken post and rails, some four feet odd
high, noticed together, that gave no indication
of breaking or bending, with a wide, clean-cut
ditch on the take-off side. The ground fell
slightly towards the fence, and, though this to
a certain extent favoured his horse, it was a
nasty fence at the best of times, a still nastier
one on a horse that could barely raise a canter.
As the hounds struggled through — some slipping
between the bars, whilst others topped the
highest rail — Jack, with compressed lips and a
set, determined look on his face, neared the

frowning timber. Violet, with better judgement
pulled np, and cried out warningly,

For Heaven's sake, Captain Ramsay, don't
ride at that !'

But her appeal falls on deaf ears, as, with
sobbing strides, game little Harlequin responds
to his rider's call. With a mighty effort he
does this best, rises well, and clears the ditch,
but, alas ! the rails are beyond even his daring
spirit or power, and he lands right on to the
stout timber. There is a crash, a confused,
struggling scarlet and bay mass, a flashing of
four bright shoes in the air, and with a groan
he rolls over into the next field, with Jack
beneath him.

Suppressing a cry, and faint with exhaustion,
excitement, and terror, Violet felt her head
swim, and clutched the pommel of her saddle ;
but the uv.xt moment, to her intense relief, she
saw Jack extricate himself from his fallen steed,
and bareheaded run towards the spot, only some
hundred yards on, where hounds had just run
into their fox, while his shrill ' Who-whoop !'
rang out in accents that betokened that he at

all events was not much the worse for his
crushing fall.

He soon cleared a circle with his whip, and,
putting his foot on the body of the fox, whipped
off the brush as old Tom, who seemed to have
dropped from the clouds in some unaccountable
manner, accompanied by the first whip,
trotted in through a gate at the far end of the
field.

Leaving the obsequies to be performed by
the flint-servants. Jack turned back with the
brush in his hands, and to his great relief saw
Harlequin rise and shake himself, and begin
cropping the short sweet herbage. Climbing
over the fence, he went up to where Violet sat
on her horse as white as a sheet, and with tears
of exhaustion trickling down her cheek. Strive
as she might, she could not control her emotion,
nor combat the rival feelings engendered
by Ramsay's safe escape and her own
weakness.

There, Miss Vyvian, though your hounds
have hunted and killed as good a fox as I ever

saw, will you let me have the privilege and
honour of handing you the brush V said Jack,
going up to her side. ' But what is the matter T
he added, in tones of alarm, noticing her blanched
cheek. ' Are you ill or faint ? Let me help you
off your horse.'

Bending forward as if endeavouring to conceal
her tears, Violet swayed for a moment in her
saddle, and Jack was only just in time to save
her from falling. Lifting her down very tenderly,
he rushed to the ditch, soaked his handkerchief
in water, and, returning, bathed her
brow and temples. This, and a few drops of
brandy that he induced her to swallow from his
flask, revived her. Violet was soon herself
again, and sat up, attempting a weak smile.

Thank you — I hope you are not hurt ; and
is — is — Harlequin all right V she stammered.

0, yes ! we are both as right as possible ;
a little shaken, perhaps ; but, you know, we
soldiers are accustomed to hard knocks.'

How handsome he looked standing there
bareheaded, with the faint breeze stirring the

wavy CTirls of his brown hair, with his grey
eyes looking so keen and brave ; and then the
tender sohcitiide of his voice, the courage and
determination he had shown all through the
run, and his ready thought for her, all tended
to make Violet feel drawn towards this man
as she had never been attracted by anyone
before.

I think, I will get on my horse now — will
you put me up?' she asked, with all her charm
of winning manner, and a glance that went
straight to Jack's heart.

Put her up, indeed I Why, he would ride
over that big fence again the next moment for
one more such look, thought Jack, as he dexterously
hoisted her into the saddle, and walked
by her side to a gate, going through which, after
a slight detour, they regained the large pasture
where the hounds were breaking up their well-earned
fox, and a few, a very few of the field
who had struggled to the end were standing ia
a group, comparing notes of the glorious run.
Only some dozen horsemen were there, but
Pile, whose four-year old was cast in a ditch.

and Kate O'Brien were not amongst them,
though Rufus was one of the hicks number.
Many were the congratulations both Jack and
Violet received.

Ah, captain, you did us all, and you ought
never to part with that little boss,' observed old
Tom, touching his cap, and pointing to Harlequin,
who was standing by with dilated nostrils
and heaving flanks.

No, Tom ; that I never will,' replied Jack,
remounting, at the same time slipping a sovereign
into the old huntsman's hand with a
playful apology for ' having had to do Diis
Avork !'

Hounds and horses have had enough for one
day, and, with the prospect of a long jog home,
it was decided not to draw again. So, by
degrees, the few remaining followers dropped off
at the various cross-roads and lanes that led to
their respective homes. Rufus, riding by the
huntsman's side, was busily engaged discussing
the run, and by degrees Violet and Jack
found themselves some distance in the rear.

Miss V}^ian, you will not be angry with me,

VOL. I. I

or think me a conceited idiot, will you ? if I ask
yon a question V began Jack, after a somewhat
prolonged conversation on the different points
of the run.

That depends on what it is.'

Well, I must take my chance of your being
offended with me, as perhaps you would have
a right to be with such a comparative stranger
as myself,' explained Jack ; at which Violet
began to feel just a trifle nervous, not knowing
what was coming next ; ' but I do want to know
how I have offended you?'

Offended — me ! Good gracious, Captain
Ramsay, why should 1 be offended with
your

Ah ! that's just what I want to know ; but
somehow, ever since that unlucky adventure at
the cross-roads, your manner has been so different
to what it was formerly that I cannot help
feeling that, with the usual stupidity of my sex,
I must have blundered somehow, and either
done or said something to annoy you. You
know you hardly spoke to me at all out shooting

the other day. Now, do tell me my fault ;
and then I will apologise most humbly, and
endeavour not to offend again.'

Violet's conscience pricked her, for she remembered
her conversation with Kate, and now,

what would that friend say when she heard
of her having nearly fainted, etc., etc., in Captain
Ramsay's company. She, of course, could
not tell Jack that their names were being
complied together ; — what was she to say '{ She
was fairly driven into a corner. At last, forcing
a little laugh, she answered,

*Come, Captain Ramsay, you should not let
your imagination run away with you so. Cannot
sou make allowances for a poor girl, with
ever so much worry on her shoulders, being
silent sometimes and disinclined to talk ? Even
as hostess, you know, one cannot be always
chattering.'

No, I agree with you there ; but I must say

1 never heard you chatter,' observed Jack, with
a merry twinkle, looking full into Violet's eyes.

At this she turned away t(^ avoid meeting his

i2

gaze, as if to arrange her habit, and replied, ina
tone of apparent carelessness,

Don't you know what somebody says —
Helps, I think — about friendship ? How, if two
people when alone together talk incessantly,
their friendship is only in the bud, whereas if
they only speak when they have really something
to say, you may be sure they are real
friends.'

That is true, but they must get through the
budding-stage first, before reaching the reality I
I don't think though. Miss Vyvian, you have
quite answered my question yet, unless with
you the bud of friendship has expanded, and
you are doing me the honour, which I scarcely
merit, of counting me amongst your o^eal
friends V

But you hould be my friend, would you
not f This with a slight tremor in her voice.

I hoped you knew that ; but there are people
who think that friendship, pure and simple,
cannot exist between man and woman.'

Mrs. Grundy, you mean, I suppose ? She is
a lady on whose opinion set very little vahie.'

Neither do I, as far as 1 myself am concerned;
but I should be sorry to think that
anyone I lov — Hked,' added Jack, correcting
himself, ' suffered from her unsparing* tongue.'

'But Avhat is false cannot hurt one eventually.
Remember what used to be written
over the castle gates of old by the Keith, Earls
Marischal :

" They has sayd,
What sayd they ?
Let them say." '

AVith your theory I agree entirely, but, like a
good many other theories, it doesn't answer in
practice.'

'Then you would refuse to do a woman a
friendly turn, for fear public opinion might attribute
false motives to you ? I really had a better
opinion of you,' exclaimed Violet, with quick
warmth, almost contempt of tone, carried away
by impulsive feeling.

You misunderstand me ; indeed, 1 had hoped
that our friendship had become too well-established
for you to think so meanly of me. One

of my best and truest friends is a woman, as you
know.'

'Mrs. Beaumont? Yes, she is one of the few
people one trusts instinctively from the beginning.'


You have only known her, I suppose, since
she came as a widow to live at Littleforde V
interrogated Jack.

'Yes, not a long time, you may say; but
events, more than time, prove what sort of stuff
people are made of.'

Well ; will you. Miss Vyvian, always be a
friend to me such as she has been — at least, until
I forfeit the right to such friendship V

Yes, willingly ; and there's my hand on't,'
responded Violet, laughingly, with a frank
smile, tendering him her hand, which lingered
in his perhaps a trifle longer than was necessary ;
and, as he pressed it warmly, she added, ' Now
we've had our chat, and I am getting cold, so I
think I shall trot home. Adieu, Captain Ramsay.
Good friends always, mind.'

A turn in the road soon hid the girl's slight
figure from view, and then Jack, lighting a

cigar, and getting off, walked the rest of the way
home by Harlequin's side, cogitating on the
events of the day. He cord not help asking
himself the question, 'Am 1 getting too fond
of this girl?' and wondering what would be the
end of it all.

CHAPTER VII.

THE OLD, OLD STORY.

A FROST ! The very night after Jack Ramsay
and Violet so happily rode homewards together
after their last run from Compton Cross Roads,
which might have led to such serious consequences.


The wind, fickle as a woman, had shifted to
the north. Two days later the hunting world
awoke to find the roads ringing like iron, with
crackles of ice round thinly-frozen puddles by
the wayside.

Rufus kept standing at a window, staring
moodily across the park, and stroking everlastingly
his great red beard. Then — needing

mail's companionship — what more natural than
that the good fellow should seek out another of
his kind, and betake himself through the woods
to a door made expressly by Miss Vyviaii last
summer in the park-wall, and that led into the
lane just opposite Littleforde House. (Rufus and
his wife had gone away that summer to Ireland,
so Violet had turned much more to her
elder friend for companionship, and learned to
trust in and to look up to Margaret Beaumont
with a clinging affection quite as great, in a
different way, as her attachment to Mrs. O'Brien.
The latter shared all Violet's merry moods, they
hunted and laughed together, and planned
their amusements. But if in any trouble, or
only feeling depressed, Violet always silently
put on her hat and Avent to Littleforde. After
that remedy, even though she might not have
thought it necessary to tell Margaret of her
special trouble, she generally came home feeling
comforted.)

'Going to look up Captain Kamsay, lusus?'
Violet inquired, carelessly, meeting him halfway
on lii.s (just, apparently by accident.

Well, I want to see Margaret about something,
too ; so I may as well go with you.'

She would not have had the courage to go
by herself. It was absurd : but she could not
understand her own secret shyness.

Rufus and Jack Ramsay always smoked together
in Mrs. Beaumont's stables, and daily
inspected the latter's small stud with mechanical
diligence ; later on they somehow always
lounged into Margaret's pretty morning-room,
Just to pass the time of day,' as Mr. O'Brien
cheerily said. Then naturally he talked to Mrs.
Beaumont, whom he much admired as ' a pretty
woman, and so pleasant and nice to talk to ; she
understands everything one tells her about
hunting, though she never rode herself, more's
the pity !' Like Madame Readier, Margaret
was a good listener. Meantime, Jack and
Violet Vyvian improved their friendship, unheeded,
with wonderful rapidity.

After three such mornings, Mrs. O'Brien suddenly
found her eyes opened, as she mentally
expressed it.

You two mean creatures ! You might have

told iii you were both at Littleforck' eiijoyiag
yourselves, no doubt, while I thought you were
busy at the farm, or over horrid, stupid accounts,'
exclaimed the handsome brunette, with an
aggrieved pout, drawing closer her somewhat
thick eyebrows, which naturally almost met.
And I have only been reading novels over the
fire all the time.'

'Come along then tomorrow, Avitli all the
pleasure in life,' cried Rufus, heartily. ' We
never thought you wanted to come, did we,
Violet ^ but, upon my soul, I believe it's that
handsome gunner she's after."

0, yes ; do come,' repeated Violet, carelessly.
' I have to consult Margaret Beaumont
about my new prize cochin hens that are
drooping again. 1 thought that sort of thing
would have bored you.'

Mrs. O'Brien accordingly accompanied them
next day ; but, true to her word, Violet only
talked poultry to Mrs. Beaumont all the time.
Jack certainly lounged in with lusus ; but, seeing
he had no chance this day, he responded
but dully to the play of Kate's raillery, and presently

excused himself on the plea of having
letters to write.

Is that all you have been doing these last
mornings down at the little house, Rufus? Now
tell me the whole truth, sir,' asked Kate, with a
pretty disappointed pout, when later on she
found herself alone with her lord and master.

Of course it was. What else would we do V
he replied, in his hearty big voice, his blue eyes
as wide-open as those of a child. did you
think, now, I've been flirting with the widow ?
Upon my Hfe, I think I'll take to it now that
you've given me the notion.'

(Honest Rufus fully believed he was telling
the simple truth.)

Rufus !' observed his wife, dispassionately,
as she gazed at him : ' You are a goose ; but
I believe you this time. You never deceived
me wilfully at any rate.'

Did some thought strike herself, as the
words left her lips? for Kate turned quickly,
escaping an attempted caress, of a playfully
big-doggish kind, from her husband, and a
warmer red came into her cheeks.

Then, in a few days, the ice began to bear
on the great pond in the park : neighbours
drove up to Forde Manor from far and near with
skates, and prepared to stay till the red sun
should have dropped low Behind the giant
Scotch firs in the park. Violet was once
more busy as mistress of the hospitalities, for
lunch was spread for every one at the .boathouse,
and later on a blight fire at a sheltered
spot shewed where five-o'clock tea was ready to
refresh all the guests. But still she could enjoy
herself pretty thoroughly while skating ; for
Margaret Beaumont took the care of the elders
off the girl's young shoulders, and Jack Kamsay
was always, oddly enough, close at her side when
wanted to fasten on her skates, and gode with
her for a loud; breathless stretch down the
winding pond, and in and out among its dotted
islets covered with rhododendrons.

Skating is even better than dancing for
making two young people acquainted. There is
more theist and abandonment to the guiding skill
of one's companion ; more freedom in the wide
excuse of ice over which the skate-strokes are

ringing, and in the fresh crisp air around ; more
opportunities to be alone together for the
venturesome ones who strike out boldly from
the shores ; with many a pause, unseen, behind
wooded corners and eyots where, while taking
breath, much may be said with eyes as well as
voice.

Jack Ramsay was not slow to avail himself
of all these advantages when with Violet
Vyvian.

Why not V he almost angrily communed
with himself over his cigar once or twice
knights, when a chill whisper of wisdom disturbed
his easy mind. ' I know nothing more
can come of it ; she knows the same ! But why
can't we be friends V So, while the ice on which
these two young people were skating grew
thicker for two or three days more, it grew
thinner and thinner in another sense.

Mrs. O'Brien came to the rescue, unknown to
both.

They will go souse in over head and ears,
unless I can keep them out of danger,' she said
to herself, gazing darkly with knitted brows, on

the very first day, over at the two most graceful
figures on the pond. Then turning to
Cyril Vyvian, who was always her faithful
squire, she would hint, with a sweet unfathomable
glance out of her black eyes, that perhaps
he had been too long by her side ; people's
tongues were so idle. Would it not be better if
Cyril were to take his cousin Violet for a turn,
just to avoid talk t

A few minutes later, Kate, who, though so
tine a horsewoman, was too tall and not firmly
knit enough for skating very well, would pause,
and looking — I so softly — up in Jack's handsome
face, let drop just the least word of laughing
warning.

Take care of your wings — remember the
moth.'

Don't you know the saying about the rose ?
If one cannot have it, one may as well be with
her Who is ne-rest it,' said Jack, with mendacious
audacity, gazing straight in Mrs. O'brien's
beautiful, almost swarthy face, lit up by her
brilliant eyes and glowing tints of cheek and

lip.

She shook her head in laughing disbelief of
his impHed component that she herself was the
first object of his admiration. As, however, the
same little theme, with variations, was played
between them every day (and that more than
once a day), it began to have a curious contrary
effect on both. Jack, warned not to fall
in love, man-like, felt all the more ready to
close his eyes and rush into the forbidden danger
; the more he became conscious of an ever-growing
longing to be with Violet all the time,
he saw through Kate O'Brien's little ruses, and
resented them.

She is an arrant flirt,' he said to himself,
when, after catching sight, now that he was on
the alert, of an occasional meaning glance of
private understanding thrown to Cecil, he found
himself the recipient of still more tender and
stolen ones a few minutes later. * She is incapable
of any true feeling ; but two can play
at her game.'

And Ramsay accordingly did thus play, succeeding
so well, although not given to flirting
by nature, that he puzzled Kate. Sometimes

she believed him ; at others she suspected him
of laughing iu his heart as he looked straight iu
her eyes, and, Without moving a muscle of his
somewhat adamantine though handsome young
face, paid her some extravagant compliment, as
if it was a toll she exacted from all passers-by.

'Can he be deceiving me ?' thought Kate to
herself, striving to watch his manner towards
Violet, which was more diffident and distant.

Sometimes she fancied (and truly) that his
features softened, and his voice took a more
tender sound, when addressing the heiress of
Forde Manor. Then the demon of jealousy
woke strong in the woman's heart. Violet and
she had never clashed before in their likings, for
the poor girl had hitherto been so hedged-in
by her father s will that she had never had the
temptation to indulge her own preferences.
Never before had any ' ineligible ' been thrown
daily in Miss Vyviau's company as was Jack
Kamsay.

I will not be made a fool of by this man.
He shall like me best — I swear it I To be outdone
by Violet! And he never can be anything

VOL. I. K

to her either !' thought Mrs. O'Brien passionately
when alone, clenching her hands, while
her dark brows met in a stormy line. Then
her face softened ; a little smile crept about her
full crimson hips as she recalled some attention
of Jack's towards herself, and, secure of victory,
she murmured — ' And he is so handsome ! Yes,
I must succeed.'

I trust you are not falling into the fair
Egyptian's toils, Jack,' Margaret Beaumont
said, with a little motherly tone, half quizzical,
one of those days. She always declared Kate
had something of the features, though not the
sleepy expression, of a worshipper of Osiris.

Jack gave her one of the honest glances she
had known so well in his boyish days ; they were
rarer now.

To speak in the vulgar tongue, my dear
Margaret, no fear! I like Mrs. O'Brien about
as much as you do, not more. But she is the
close companion and friend of Miss Vyvian,
whom 1 do like sincerely, so one must be civil.'

Quite so. And I am really glad you are
diverting Mrs. Kate's flirtations from poor, good

Cyril. He is much more attentive to Violet
these days ; don't you think so ?'

.lack wished in his heart his cousin Margaret
would not make himself her confidant about her
grand matrimonial scheme, but he dared not
say 80. Warnings on one side, confidences on
the other, all to prevent him being ' too great
friends' with "Violet. He grew grumpy, inclined
to be irritable all round. At times he betrayed
this, and found Violet's sweet eyes fixed on him
wonderingly. Then, when next he was alone
with the girl, he would hold her hands all the
tighter as they skimmed over the ice, while his
face and voice showed her in a hundred little
ways that he never could be vexed so long as she
was thus beside him ; and, feeling then perfectly
happy, he made her happy too. And so they
two, secretly, w^cre passing step by step together
into a fool's paradise.

One night came a thaw. The ice still held
its own, but some spots seemed weak ; and
good Rufus, who could not have skated a
stroke without making a spread-eagle of his
prostrate body, stood on the banks and watched

k2

anxiously over the public safety. There was
one place off which he specially warned them
all, where was a little dam and sluice. The ice
had been kept broken here for some time to let
the water run, and its coating was accordingly
thin. In a wayward mood, Kate came skating
towards this spot; she was alone, and perhaps,
without going too far, wished her admirers to
notice she was nearing peril.

Kate, go back ! don't come this way, it is
dangerous,' roared Eufus, from the bank, getting
excited.

Kate looked up saucily ; she rather liked teasing
her big husband. Cyril Vyvian was beside
him on the bank, too, and Captain Ramsay. She
herself had lingered before joining them all for
tea, and now was the time for a sensation.

'What danger? Why should I not come?'
she sweetly asked, taking two short strokes
nearer and pausing (the ice did not crack yet !)
O'Brien was always easily roused. He lost all
his self-control at once, and his really terrified
anxiety for his wife's safety took the form of
anger.

Go back this instant ; do you hear ? Do as
I order you, inadain, or, by heaven ! I'll not
answer for the consequences,' he shouted, his
face growing as brilliant red as his flaming
beard, while the veins swelled on his forehead.
Another fair man beside him reddened, too, With
inward fury. Cyril Vyvian glared an instant at
O'Brien, on hearing the rough words, as if he
could have gladly struck the giant down ; then
looked eagerly, imploringly at Kate.

Kate calmly watched her husband and those
on the bank while one might have counted ten,
then turned ; slowly and gracefully she skated
away. Cr-a-ack I went the ice behind her, near
where she had stood.

Thank God !' muttered Rufus, almost inaudibly;
then he mopped his forehead, on which
some cold drops of fear had broken out. Jack
watched him with a smile of friendly pity,
thinking how easily gulled some men may be.
Another man deserved Ramsay's pity still more,
but he did not know it.

Next evening Kate O'Brien stood alone in
her own room, re-reading a letter in her hand.

It was one that agitated her a good deal ; for,
though the door was locked, she looked up
nervously at every sound as of a passing footstep,
and a sombre fire burned in her big eyes
and glowed dully in her cheeks. One sentence
of the letter ran thus :

'rit made my Mood soil yesterday to hear the
coarse indignity with ichich you were treated — you,
of all lumen. You are mated ivith a cloivn, hut if
I may only live for you, as 1 woidd gladly die for
you '

Kate stopped here in her re-perusal, for the
third or fourth time, of her strange letter.

Mated with a clown ! Perhaps I am,' she
said to herself, ' but, still, the clown has good
qualities, my friend Cyril. Should 1 be any
happier, with a tormentingly- jealous, kindly
but weak, nagging sort of man like yourself?
I doubt it.'

Then, in her mind's eye, she saw poor Cyril's
home : neglected-looking grounds ; an old house,
that could no longer bear its weight of centuries,
crumbling to decay.

If Rufus is penniless, or pretty nearly so, you
are not much better off,' she soliloquised, addressing
an imaginary interlocutor with a curl
of her hp. ' I am no prude. I am, perhaps, nota
very good woman ; but if ever I do run away
^vith another man and break my husband's
heart, it would have to be for more than you
can offer me.' Then, flinging the letter impatiently
down, and stamping her foot : * What a
fool the man is I If I had ever thought he
would have swallowed the bait so greedily, I
should have almost let him alone. But no ! he
was certainly beginning to fancy Violet when
we first came here, and making up his mind in
his shy, simple way to propose. ]margaret Beaumont
would have urged it as a natural and
proper marriage. Violet would most likely have
said yes, after a year or two of freedom, for she
always liked him in a sisterly way. And then
where should I and poor Rufus have been ! —
obliged to pack up and be off. No more hunters
for me, no more dresses ; only a dog-kennel
of a house somewhere, and two maids.*

Kate O'Brien stood and sighed. It was

hateful to be poor, she mused. But for that
carling care she would never have jumped at
Rufus O'Brien, when she caught the simple
fellow by her first attempts at witchery after
leaving school.

Well,' she finally concluded, ' in any case I
shall not be so mad as to answer Cyril by letter
as he begs. Who knows what might happen toit
? Two lines, saying I will let him know tomorrow
— that will not compromise me.' Kate
looked at the fireplace, and, taking up Cyril
Vyvian's letter once more, seemed inclined to
burn it. Then she changed her mind swiftly,
and, crossing the room, carefully put it in the
secret drawer of a little cabinet, the key of
which never left her. ' It may prove useful
some day, who knows V was her last reflection,
with a dark, prophetic smile.

The following afternoon, as the sunlight began
to slant low and red, Violet Vyvian left the
other skaters and said to Mrs. Beaumont, with a
touch of affectionate concern,

I am uneasy about poor Kate. She had a
bad headache and could not join us to-day.

Would you mind just looking* in on her presently,
to see that she does not feel too lonely V

Of course. 1 will go now,' margaret readily
answered.

She did not much like Kate in her heart of
hearts, but still received her with kindly welcome
into the outer court of her reg-ard ; and
she was always pitiful in cases of illness.

(' It must be something serous to make Iter
stay away from all the fun on the ice,' reflected
Mrs. Beaumont.)

Being an intimate of the house, margaret
troubled none of the servants, but went straight
to the boudoir that was allotted to Kate as her
own retreat. Softly opening the door, with
consideration for the sufferer's headache, Mrs.
Beaumont found herself still partially hidden
by a tall screen from the observation of two
persons, who seemed so deeply excited by their
conversation that neither noticed her, their
backs being turned towards lier. Margaret
stood riveted by what lie saw and heard. She
had no great presence of mind ; and only felt
that next moment they just see her, and she

would be under the disagreeable necessity of
explaining her presence.

Cyril Vyvian was sitting, with his head supported
on his hands, seeming bowed down with
the weight of some strong feeling.

Kate ! my dearest — you can't mean it. You
can't refuse me after all that has passed. All
yesterday and to-day I have waited in absolute
torture for your answer. I could not eat or
sleep,' said the young man in a broken voice,
quivering through and through with misery.

As no answer came from the woman's figure
half-lying on the sofa, he went on, in a tone of
wildly bitter reproach :

'Have you fooled me, then? For weeks,
yes, months past have you not given me to
understand you were miserable with your husband
? that you only cared for me ? And now
now ! that I implore you to come to me ; to
leave off living this lie '

I tell you that you have gone too far, Mr.
Vyvian,' said Kate, in a stifled voice, but scornfully
; what of her face was visible among the
sofa-cushions, in which it was half-buried, being

dark-reel with an anger perhaps the greater that
she felt it was hardly justified.

^Mr. Vivian /' iniinniircd the man, in a whisper
of annihilation and agony of mind so painful
the listener was seized with pity. Then, with
a spark more of spirit : ' If I have said too much,
whose doing is it ? Nato ! remember how you
never rested till you had drawn the very heart
and soul out of me ; how you have maddened
me by assurances you loved me in return just
as passionately. But you can't mean it ! . . .
You will let me make you a home, and you will
be its light and queen. We will leave England
for a while '

No I no ! no. My poor Cpil, you have deceived
yourself. Of course I care for you, but
not to that extent. Be reasonable — perhaps,
indeed, it would be better that you should go
away for a little while yourself. But you must
never speak to me on this subject again.'

A sudden, sharp in-drawing of breath, a sound
like a startled groan came in answer to Kate's
words of cool, kindly admonition, that were
given in the sort of tone one uses in expostulating

with a spoilt child. Almost at the
same moment, had the speakers been less absorbed,
they might have heard the door gently
close.

'So that is over; and a good thing, too,'
thought Mrs. Beaumont, as she went sedately
down the passage ; and her brown eyes were
alight with this secret intelligence of her neighbour's
affairs, but her still sweetly pretty mouth
somewhat pursed. Though herself a good woman,
Who quietly succeeded in abstaining even
from all appearance of evil, Margaret was not
easily surprised. She knew human nature, and
judged nobody. Perhaps she felt a thrill of
almost pleasurable excitement; of pitying, of
course, yet half-amused elation at proving what
she knew now. ' It's very wrong, but I can't
help it,' she told her conscience. Frail human
nature again !

Presently, watching from the drawing-room
window, she saw Cyril cross the terrace with
white and haggard features.

'Ah, well! in time he will be cured, and come
back to Violet. But she would never care for

him, if she knew this,' thought Margaret. * Soy
for both Cyril's sake and hers, I will not breathe
a syllable about it.'

And she kept her word.

CHAPTER VIII.

DRIFTING.

The week of men skating at Forde Manor
was abruptly ended. A thaw came in the
night, and cheered the hopes of the Marshwood
Vale men, only to turn, tantalisingly, into a
slight fall of snow ; then back went the thermometer
to freezing-point. The ice was spoilt,
and hunting was as impossible as ever. What
was to be done in such aggravating weather ?

Violet Vyvian settled the point With herself
by going out for a brisk walk through her own
woods, accompanied only by Crab, her pet terrier.
The sun was shining cheerily through the bare
branches, on which the snow of yesterday had

left a lightly frozen coating ; the sky was blue
as on a summer's day. There was a crisp freshness
in the air that brought a rosy glow into her
cheeks which was eminently becoming. Or, was
it the cold outside ? Were not the warm thoughts
in her heart as answerable for that sweet flush,
while a new dreamy light was in her Lives-ts
she wandered on alone, and felt glad to be
away from all observation of even friendly eyes,
free to commune with her own heart.

All the events of the past weeks seemed to
flit before Violet's mind. Once more she rode
that last run — with Iiini. Once more she felt
the horribly sickening fears for Jack's life, as
the scene at the last fence rose before her mind
like a picture ; she remembered her faintness ;
and then the blissful consciousness of coming
back to life with his arm round hur, his face
looking into hers. Jack Ramsay had unhappily
become so much the one man on earth for poor
Violet that she never thought of him, now, byname
; a bad sign for her peace of mind. Then
she tried to turn to other thoughts, dimly aware
of danger; but the happy hom-s on the ice,

words, looks, a launched little memories in
which he and she were the two only, or principal
actors, came next before her. By day
and night, at all hours and places, Violet was
fast becoming engrossed by one thought;
struggle as she might (and she did so !) it
was ever there and supreme, however in the
background. And that thought was of Jack
Ramsay. What was he doing ? When might
she see him again ? Already, Violet secretly
marked time's flight by each occasion on which
they two met. She dared not go this morning
to Margaret Beaumont's house ; a sudden shyness
seized her nowadays even before that best friend.
But there was a hill in the grounds, rising above
the park-wall and the lane behind it, from which
she could look down on Littleforde, and this
was a pleasure she would not deny the urgings
of her heart.

Why not? He will soon be going away, no
doubt. And it only hurts myself,' argued the
girl, aware of her own weakness in thus stealing
to look from a little distance at the house which
sheltered the man she loved. (At the same

time he might be in the stable, Violet remembered,
with a laugh against herself; or
perhaps, as she had found him once before,
leaning over the pig-stye wall, smoking a
cigar.)

Violet strained her eyes downwards in vain.
No living speck of humanity could she descry
below in Littleforde, except two figures forking
manure. Turning away she betook herself to
a keeper's cottage near, endeavouring to impress
on her own mind that this was the real object
of her morning stroll.

Well, Haggett, and how is your rheumatism
V she asked, as the keeper, a valued
dependent of old Squire Vyvian, appeared at
the door of his tidy lodge and begged her to
walk in.

Main bad, miss ; main bad,' said the otherwise
hale and hearty-looking man, with a
ruefully comic smile. ' But it serves me right,
it do. You see, I went out t'other martin' and
forgot to put my tattle in my pocket, as captain
Ramsay advised me. '' 'Taint with turning'
back for," thinks I, when slap I by midday I

VOL. I. L

"was took so terrible bad wi' the pains I could
hardly hobble home.'

I don't understand,' said Violet, bewildered.
What has Captain Ramsay, or a potato, to do
with it V

The keeper, with a half-ashamed look, explained
that .Jack, having one day seen him in
pain, had come several times afterwards to visit
him, and had suggested a simple remedy used
in his own country against rheumatism, that of
always carrying a potato in one's pocket till it
grew black inside with absorption of ' the bad
humour that makes the rheumatics,' said the
worthy man.

And 'tis wonderful what a cure it made in
me the second day. He be a kind german, he
be^^for martin. He has sat there, in thick very
chair you be satin' in, miss, talking 'bout the
dogs, and the pheasants, and so on for an hour to
a time. He be so kindly like, he reminds me
more of your good father, more nor any german
I have ever seen since at Forde Manor, if you'll
'souse my saying' so, miss. He be so pleasant,
and ain't got no high and mighty notions as

some young men has now-a-days ; he be such
a rare good sportsman, too, and Mr. Shareholder
do tell me he be a rare good man on a loss.'

And so the old man rambled on, enthusiastic
in Jack's praise, whilst Violet sat by, delighted,
in the very chair her hero had occupied. She
little guessed that Jack, when he sat there, had
just as keenly listened to the description of all
her own virtues, after skilfully enticing good
Haggett to a subject on which he was always
garrulous, namely, the rare good qualities of his
young mistress.

A quick knock came at the cottage door
presently ; and, as the keeper went to see his
visitor, Jack's tall figure appeared on the
threshold, welcomed by Crab, who recognized
a friend, with extravagant delight. Seeing
Violet within, he stopped, embarrassed, and his
colour heightened. Curiously, despite all his
natural advantages. Jack was very modest,
even shy, with the women he most admired
and cared to please. So now, though his quick,
glad smile showed a pleasant gleam of white
under his moustache, his eyes sought Violet's

l2

face with quite as humble and deprecating a
look as that with which the terrier was begging
him to kindly greet itself. Violet had
given a guilty start ; her own cheeks took on a
lovely if fleeting carnation tinge.

« I — ^I hope I am not disturbing yon, Miss
Vyvian,' stammered Jack. ' I only looked in to
know how Haggett was, and to bring him some
tobacco. I am just going.'

I was just going, too ; please don't mind me,*
returned Violet, rising confused.

Somehow they both found themselves outside
the keeper's cottage in another minute or
so, and were walking together slowly back to
the hill-brow overlooking Littleforde. Neither
knew how it happened. In the glade behind
them, Haggett stood at his cottage door, and
forgetting to gloat over the excellent bird's-eye,
for which he had just uttered his most respectful
thanks, looked after them perplexed.

'tis a thousand pities about the squire's
will,' was the slow conclusion he arrived at ;
then slowly shook his head and went indoors to
smoke a bit.

Meanwhile, Jack and Violet paused on the
hill where two paths diverged. Both were
growing strangely shy of each other. Then Jack
said, hesitatingly,

I must not intrude on your morning ramble,
I suppose. Miss Vyvian. I thought that perhaps
I should meet O'Brien somewhere about.'

He is busy, — that is, Kate is out of sorts today
; she has caught a chill, I fancy, and good
Rufus is quite distressed, and is staying in all
the morning to try to amuse her by clipping
her poodle,' Violet replied, trying to collect
herself.

'He is one of the best-hearted fellows I
know ; and a capital husband, I should think,'
was Jack's warm encomium. ' But I thought 1
heard Mrs. O'Brien asldng Vyvian, your cousin,
to play the barber under pain of her sovereign
displeasure.'

Cyril has suddenly deserted us all ; he sent
me a letter this morning saying he was sick of
the frost, and was off to Paris. It is a queer
freak of his, for he always used to hate going
away from here. Is Margaret very busy this

morning? I was thinking of looking in for a
few minutes.'

Very busy grinned Jack. * There was a
scare this morning that Dolly was lost. She
was discovered later comfortably ensconced ina
wardrobe containing her mother's best gowns,
as a nice soft retreat, in company with a pot of
apricot jam. It seems to have proved too
much for her, for she is rather upset, like the
various persons she succeeded in alarming.
Margaret says penitence has something to say
to it, but I fancy Dolly's conscience must be in
her digestive organs. Finding I was not wanted
by anybody, T came out, feeling solitary.'

Precisely my case,' laughed Violet. In her
heart she had felt impatient that morning at
seeing Kate exacting slavish obedience from
her good-natured husband. And it was his
special day for business, too. Yet poor Rufus was
quite happy at this rare desire of his wife's for
his companionship ; and one could not quarrel
with her for that. They neither of them needed
Violet: she was an outsider. Margaret Beaumont
had her little child, too, to be all in all to

her ; Violet was the third person there again.
The girl felt a longing to be first with somebody.
It was so lonely to be always only
second best. Her face changed, and it fell
unconsciously as she went on : ' Nobody wants
me either.'

You are wrong there ; I do,' said Jack,
softly ; adding, with an earnest look, * Sm-ely
friends may need each other's society ; and weare
friends, you and IV Then, as Violet
mutely assented by a grave little sign of
her head, the young man went on eagerly •*
You wull let me go with you for a little
way?'

So they two disappeared into the depths
of the wintry wood. And their minds went
further yet, and deeper into a sweet summer
fool's paradise. It embowered their spirits ; a
wood of fancies and thoughts through which
they two only wandered. There they were
lost together, alone as in an Eden ; and low
spoken words, mutual glances, soul to soul, and
now and then the touch of a hand were as the
flowers of that blissful imaginary domain.

As they stood on the hill-top, both had been
so absorbed in their meeting, neither noticed a
pony-carriage in the lane below. Yet Mrs.
Blatherwick was seated therein, waving her
handkerchief vigorously in greeting, while her
husband flourished his whip.

After an hour or more of a delightful walk —
one that both would long afterwards look back
to as having brought them nearer than ever into
sympathy and mutual understanding — they came
to a clearing in the woods. There was a slope
before them, on which the snow was frozen harder
than elsewhere.

You might slip here. Better take my hand
till we get down,' said Jack, with a tone of
friendly authority, as caretaker ; though there
was little danger.

0, I should run down it, if I were by myself,'
said Violet, carelessly ; yet she gave him her
hand, and was conscious of a little flutter as
she did so.

Shall we run down together, then V

Jack grasped his fair companion's hand tighter
as he spoke and set off. Like a couple of children

they raced down the slope, inspired by a spirit
of fun, while the terrier rushed ahead and round
them, in frantic delight, getting in the way in a
most inconvenient manner. At the foot of the
slope they paused to laugh and look at each
other.

Jack thought that he had never before seen
Violet looking so lovely. In truth, she was not
lovely ; her features being too irregular, even
faulty, to deserve any such high praise. But
then it was her especial charm that, after being-some
time in her society (and how often he had
been so !), one grew to believe her quite
beautiful, simply from her fascination of manner.
And besides her brown hair waved upwards so
prettily under her hat; the little curls that
showed above her boa seeming golden-tipped.
Her eyes shone with such brightness, sending
their beams straight, it seemed, into Jack's very
heart ; and the flush of exercise on her checks
was so bewitching that he felt quite foolish,
and

Shall we walk on V murmured Violet, drawing
away her hand. Only then Jack became

conscious he had been'standing still and holding
it, as he gazed at the girl.

With slow, almost lingering steps, they Avent
on side by side, till an opening in the trees
showed Forde Manor-house, standing square
and solid, with its brick walls and stone facings,
showing a ruddy, weather-toned, red and white
visage, between its neighbouring sombre cedars.

What a dear old place it is !' escaped almost
unawares from Ramsay's hips. 'I can well
imagine that you would not easily give up its
possession for everything else you might be
offered.'

'Not easily,' answered the girl, low. 'And
perhaps not for any thing. But I think that one's
happiness depends more upon people than places
after all.'

She spoke slowly, almost hesitatingly, yet the
slight emphasis on the word any tiling was unmistakable,
and made Jack start with a sudden
tremor. Could it be ? — Did she mean, that, for
the sake of any one, she would renounce all this
fair heritage, and content herself with the little

income left her by the late squire in such an
event ? Jack could hardly believe his ears ; his
brain seemed to be partly stunned at the new
overpowering idea.

They had come, meanwhile, to a lovely bit of
park scenery. A high steep slope, covered with
snow, rose to the edge of a hanging wood, that
was fringed with a winter glory of madonna
turned to every shade betwixt yellow and
russet, and shining-leaved hollies, bearing proudly
aloft their bunches of crimson berries. The
trees above formed a haze of brown, delicate
twig-tracery, while some dead leaves, still hanging
to the branches in this sheltered spot, gave
a warm dull-red tone to the wood, contrasting
beautifully with the pure white mantle of snow
that lay on the expanse of park beneath, dotted
here and there with clumps of rhododendrons,
the massive tops of Which were likewise thickly
frosted over.

The drive wound at a little distance through
the park, emerging from another and lower
wood under the hill.

What beautiful winter foliage ! I must try
to get some of those leaves to put in my great
china bowl in the hall,' exclaimed Violet.

Wait here, and let me go up for you. What
is the use of having a slave, and not making him
do your bidding ? Besides, you might slip.'

Why should I ? That is so like a man, to
imagine a woman cannot even keep her footing
without the help of your superior sex,' laughed
Violet, rather coquettishly, and she bravely proceeded
to scale the bank. But it was steeper
than she reckoned, and at a specially slippery
spot half-way up she was soon obliged to avail
herself, first of Jack's proffered stick, and then of
his hand.

Jack gave a little exulting laugh, and looked
down at her with a glance of protecting fondness
that sent a warmer flush leaping into Violet's
cheeks. It was so sweet to be taken care of
like that; and she knew, by Jack's look, it was
as sweet to him to take care of her. Hand-in-hand,
they mounted to the top, and steadied
themselves on the very steepest place under the
hollies.

I must gather them myself,' Violet declared,
with feminine wilfulness.

Then you must take hold of my arm. I
insist upon it. This is really as bad as Alpine
climbing. I ought to have brought out an ice-axe
and cut steps for you up here, if I had
guessed you would be so foolhardy,' Jack replied
gravely, looking very determined.

Violet meekly obeyed. It was a new feeling,
and she rather marvelled at it.

A few sprigs of holly were broken off carefully,
then Violet essayed a branch much higher
than the others.

'Do you think I could get this one?' she
questioned, with one arm stretched as high as
she could possibly reach, and her fingers pausing
on the twig while she looked at Jack, awaiting
his answer.

She was so pretty with her sweet grey eyes
turned so confidingly up towards his face ; she
was so dangerously near. Jack's pulses beat
fast. He pressed her arm closer to his side with
a stifled utterance. He answered her look with
another shining one that seemed to dart down to

the very depths of her clear soul, with such a
sudden happy light, as it were, that Violet
started a little in maiden shyness. Crack! . . .
She broke off the high branch With a great
effort, in sudden haste to break at the same time
the awkwardness of the situation.

But, unhappily — even as the branch snapped
poor Violet lost her balance. She made a
desperate effort to steady herself by clutching
at Jack's friendly support, from which she had
involuntarily loosed her grasp. His feet, alas !
slipped also at that instant, just as he tried to
get a better hold in the frozen snow, that was
like a boy's slide in its treacherous slipperiness.
Next instant, both found themselves ignominiously
descending the bank much quicker than
they had come up, and catching wildly, but in
vain, at any projecting portions of earth or
brambles to stay their progress. At the foot of
the slope both picked themselves up rather
breathless, and looked with immense discomfiture
at each other, then burst into a fit of laughter ;
while Crab barked vociferously, as much as to
say he quite understood the joke.

Jack's coat had caught on a tough, broken
root, midway, which had held him fast a second,
but then set him free after inflicting a rent right
up to his shoulders.

Violet had escaped with lesser but similar
marks of defeat, and she had slightly bruised
her foot.

As they stood thus, still shaking with mirth
at their sorry plight, both became aware
of the sound of wheels in the drive ; and soon
Mrs. Blather wick's voice was heard, calling
out,

Miss Yy-vian ! Captain Ramsay ! Goodness
gracious, are you hurt ? How did you happen
to fall down there ? AVe saw you both when
you were rolling half-way down. My ! — what a
fright I got.'

Thank goodness ! then she did not see us
before P thought Violet, as she limped forward,
and blessed in her heart the intervening trees
which had screened them from the visitor's
gaze.

But you must let me drive you back, and
Billy will walk. You are a little lame — my

dear Miss Vyvian, you must allow me to recommend
you a cold bandage at once, and not to
stand about on that foot '

Come,' interrupted Billy, lier spouse, with a
good-humoured growl ; ' you are keeping Miss
Yyvian yourself with all this chatter ;' and he
insisted on Violet taking his place.

Such an hour for me to call !' went on Mrs.
Blatherwick, with rather obsequious apology.
But indeed — though it seems quite providential
in a way — we did not mean to go in ; that
is so familiar, I always think, in the morning.
But I brought over a little offering — only some
real guava jelly that Billy had sent to him by a
West-indian friend. I hoped you would not
mind the liberty — it is so hard to get it good in
England.'

Then, delighted that Violet pleasantly expressed
her thanks, Mrs. Blatherwick felt emboldened
to continue, with a little confidential
laugh,

We saw you both ever so long ago, my dear,
standing on the hill above Littleforde. Quite a
romantic little picture you made, as I said to

Billy. But I hope Mrs. O'Brien, your chaperon,
Tvon't scold you V

Why should she ? She is with me as my
friend, not my keeper. I do not hold that I
am responsible for my actions to anyone but
myself,' returned Violet, sweetly, but with a
gentle haughtiness not lost upon the visitor.

There ! I've nearly put my foot into it,'
thought the latter. 'How Billy would scold
me if he knew ; just when I have such a lovely
chance of making friends with the girl, too !
Catch me chaff her again about Captain Bam-say
! It's a case, I'm sure — and she can't take
him, of course.'

Mrs. Blatherwick was very anxious to be on
more intimate terms with Violet, who was, as
the lady expressed it, a ' cut above her,' and
belonging to the best set of the old county
families, some of whom rather cold-shouldered
the colonial lady.

Trying her utmost to repair her fault, the
really good-natured little woman succeeded so
well in making herself agreeable that Violet
asked them both to stay on for lunch, to see the

VOL. I. M

palm-house, and afterwards have a game of billiards.
Jack stayed too ; Rufus having gleefully-fitted
him with a coat that was decidedly loose
and undeniably shabby, its worthy owner being
far from as particular in his dress as its present
wearer.

Doesn't he look a fine man in it, now, ladies?
Faith, Ramsay, I'm only afraid you'll be wanting
to borrow a portmanteau from me as well,'
cried O'Brien, with a significant wink, as he
surveyed the appearance of his friend.

'I am afraid Violet has been a little hoydenish
this morning. You know, that is her
chief temptation in her situation ; so I do trust
you will not encourage her in any more escapades,'
murmured Kate O'Brien, presently, in
Jack's ear, as she swept round the billiard-table
with a queenly air.

'What? In falling from slippery places?
Certainly not — I mean to avoid them myself in
future, Mrs. O'Brien, if I can,' promptly returned
Jack, feeling secretly annoyed, but
successfully disguising it. ' Your ball is spot,
I believe ; on the opposite side, there.'

'Ah, I thought it was the white one,' said
Kate, carelessly, aloud. Then, in a quick, reproachful
whisper : * You have hardly spoken a
word to me. What is the reason ? Are you
angry with nie V

No reason at all ; only one must try to be
generally agreeable to a hostess and her guests,
I suppose. By-the-way, where is your friend,
Cyril Vyvian, gone?'

'I neither know nor care. Why do you
always vex me about him ? Yon at least, have
no right to be jealous of 1dm, poor fellow. And,
as to your duty to your hostess, it seems tome
you had sufficient opportunity to pay it
this morning. It is not kind to remind me
that I am only a nonentity in this house.'

Jack inwardly sighed, even while his companion's
gi-eat, lustrous eyes burned upon him.
He tried to soothe Mrs. O'Brien's offended feelings
by some vague compliments. He was too
angry with her to do more, and was bitterly
aware he dared not approach Violet much while
that jealous gaze was upon him. At last lie
found his chance, when they gathered, towards

m2

five o'clock, in the wainscoted hall, where the
leaping flames of a great pile of ash-billets in
the wide, old-fashioned fire-place were reflected
in the beautiful Queen Anne silver of the tea-table
equipage.

Violet, in a dark-green velvet dress, that
became her wonderfully, setting off" her pretty
brown hair and fair complexion, had just finished
pouring out tea, when Jack at last was able
to draw near her.

'Ah ! Captain Ramsay, now you deserve a
cup for yourself. Can you tell me, has everyone
else had V

Yes; everyone else has had tea, and buttered
toast, and hot cake, and all the rest of it,' interrupted
Jack. ' You are the only person to
whose wants you are not attending at all ; you
always come last, I believe.'

Of course. Is it not my duty to look after
all my friends and guests first V

« 0, duty !' murmured Jack, in a disgusted
tone ; then, persuasively, ' Are you not
tired, now, of your constant duties ? You once
told me you were sometimes. 1 am ! No one

can ever get a word with you, with all these
people about, except by chance. Could we not
all run up to town for a few days, and have a
good time ? Come ; say you will.'

'It would be delightful,' answered Violet,
nervously playing with the tea-cups; and,
though she spoke hesitatingly, her eyes were
sparkling.

What are you two plotting together V asked
Kate, approaching with her empty tea-cup, and
passing one arm round Violet's waist.

Something I was just wanting you to back
me up in,' replied Jack, with mendacious effrontery.
' I was telling Miss Vyvian that, as the
horses are idle in the stables ; and the hounds in
the kennel ; and the weather abominable ; why
should we not all go up to town for a dance, or
to some theatres ? You will be on my side, Mrs.
O'Brien, I am sure.'

It would be delightful,' replied Kate, decidedly
; and her eyes sparkled, too.

CHAPTER IX.

AT THE NEW CLUB.

Curiously enough, though Violet had been
slow to accede to the London plan, no sooner
had Mrs. O'Brien declared for it, than the girl
became the more eager of the two. Meanwhile,
her handsome duenna, in a few hours, began
decidedly to cool.

Violet — who had sent an urgent message that
Margaret Beaumont 7nust join them, which Jack
undertook to convey, promising to ensure its
success — was quite distressed that night on
finding Kate seated moodily alone in her boudoir.
Hardly deigning to look up, the latter said,
with an evident thunder-cloud hanging over
her dark brows,

'As you have Mrs. Beaumont to go with you
to town, Violet, she will be quite a sufficient
chaperon without me. I have been talking to
Rufus, and think, on the whole, I had better
stay behind.'

'But, Kate, why not? It will not be the
same thing, at all, if you don't come,' cried
Violet, affectionately, in dismay. ' What is the
matter ? Why, you seemed so keen about it,
at first.'

The matter is, only — that I have no clothes.
You don't wish me to disgrace your party, I
suppose ? but of course I cannot vie with an
heiress, or a lucky widow, like you and Mrs.
Beaumont, in the matter of dress.'

My dear Kate, you must be joking. Why,
there is your black dress you wore with point
and that you looked so splendid in the
other night, as Cyril said. And your white
satin, and ' expostulated Violet, laughing.

Thank you !' interrupted Mrs. O'Brien, vehemently,
almost angrily. ' You are as bad as
Rufus, who, whenever I complain, only says,
'' Well, my dear, if you haven't a rag to put on

your back, as you say, still in my opinion you are
the best-dressed woman I see in any room." It
is so stingy of him. He doesn't care ; but I vow
I will not go in those shabby old gowns ! They
are utterly dowdy.' Kate wiped her eyes; then
added, more gently, ' There, dear ; don't mind
my little worries. Go and enjoy yourselves in
town. I am only a poor earthen pot, who has
no right to try to sail down-stream along with
the iron ones.'

Nonsense, dear Kate ; don't talk like that. Of
course we could never enjoy ourselves without
you. 0, you must come. And, as for the dresses,
let me help in that little difficulty We will pay a
visit to Madame Blanche the first thing,' was
Violet's gay rejoinder, who was really touched
by Kate's affliction, and believed her friend was
firmly resolved to keep her word.

Kate held back from accepting this generous
offer, but Violet insisted. At last, with warmest
assurances of gratitude, Mrs. O'Brien allowed
herself to be persuaded, and her young hostess
left triumphant.

Poor Kate !' was Violet's reflection as she

went somewhat slowly to her own room. ' lu
her place, 1 think I should try to be more economical
for poor Rufus' sake. Her dresses are
really quite good — but there ! she can't help her
nature, and she is miserable unless she is better
dressed than any of us. Height ! we all have
our faults.'

Then Violet turned to happier thoughts, and
remembering Jack's whisper, ' One never can
get a word with you, except by chance began
dreaming of what it would be like in town with
Mm. 0, pleasures of hope ! how they rival
pleasures of memory.

After all,' said Kate, confidentially, next day
to Miss Vyvian, as all the party stood collected
at the little Forde station, awaiting the up-train,
after all, dear, I am very glad I agreed to come
with you. People might have gossiped down
here, you know, if you had gone up with Mrs.
Beaumont alone, and her cousin.'

I should pay no attention to that sort of nonsense,'
was Violet's answer, given carelessly; but
she felt secretly vexed.

They all made the most of their time. Kate

got her dresses, and then Violet felt half obliged,
half urged thereto by Madame Blanche, to treat
herself likewise ; ' not to look less smart than
her friend,' said the dressmaker; 'to please
Jack's eyes,' thought Violet herself.

They went to Kenton ; to the winter exhibitions
; and each night, after dining together,
to the theatre. Jack had made up the party
to six, by introducing a friend. This was Major
Ball, an ex-hussar and a jovial, horsey little
man, who instantly succumbed toKate's charms
and left Ramsay more free to be with the fair
girl he most cared for. And yet, after all, Jack
had not such good luck as he had expected. At
dinner general fun and talk across their little
table naturally took place, with only their party
of half-a-dozen. At theatres he had more
chance. Yet, even there, Kate always contrived
he should sit between herself and Violet ;
and how could a man hazard any very tender
remark or compliment to one girl with the
great ostrich fan of her jealous friend always
waving close to his ear, and Kate's laugh of high
animal spirits, and her rich, rather loud voice,

claiming his attention every other minute, while
her dark eyes flashed every now and then round
searchingly upon him.

One night ' Rip van Winkle ' was revived,
and they went to see it.

You are very quiet this evening,' Jack presently
contrived to say to Violet unheard. ' You
look even sad.'

*Do I? See how honest I am. This play
does make me a little sad, I confess. One can't
help thinking how many Rip van Wrinkles there
are in life who come back and dont find tidings
as they were.'

*Yes. It has a peculiar significance for a
soldier,' answered Jack, low. ' If I were to goto
India (which is pretty much the same thing as
being lost in sleep, or otherwise, to all those I care
for), I wonder tt'/irt^ changes 1 should find among
my friends?'

None in me. I should remain the same,'
Violet answered, very low. Then, after a
moment or two of silence, during which she
seemed to divine that her words had sunk deep
into Jack's mind, she added louder, rousing

herself to mirthfulness again, ' Only, most likely,
I should be a trifle stouter, and heavier in the
saddle. Will it look well, I wonder, to see
Violet Vyvian, M.F.H. of the Marshwood Vale
Hounds, still, when she is a grey-haired, old
maid V

It is not necessary to assume you will be
that. You may marry.'

It is more than unlikely, unless No !

If you go away, you will find me Violet Vyvian
still when you return.'

They were interrupted at that moment by
Major Ball, who eagerly announced,

Do listen to the piece now. Miss Vyvian.
There is such an awfully touching part coming.'

Violet never heard the answer that was trembling
on Jack's lips, which would have touched
her infinitely more than any words of the play.
He had no opportunity of finding out what she

meant by that word, ' unless ,' she had so

quickly broken ofi*. Did it mean unless a better
man than Lord Guisard appeared ? Or could it
be that she meant, unless she decided to give up
home and fortune, all but a mere five hundred

a-year, for the sake of some man she should love
better than house or lands ? The word haunted
him.

On the Wednesday night, after they had been
almost a week in town, news came that the
frost was nearly gone. But Jack urged them
all so strongly to stay for a dance at the New
Club, of which he was a member, that they consented,
not unwillingly.

A good many guests had already arrived, as
Ramsay escorted his party through the hall and
downstau's into the ball-room.

How pretty I' exclaimed Violet, looking at
the polished parquet that replaced what must
have been a very different scene in the days
of Evans', and at the Oriental-looking galleries
overhead. ' x\nd what a delicious floor ! I am
longing for a dance.'

'Come now, then ; and let me have this first
Avaltz,' said Jack ; as the orchestra on the stage,
with its pretty drop-scene of Indian jungle,
began the strains of Strauss's last, best waltz.

Several pairs of eyes followed them admiringly,
as they glided over the floor that was

smooth as glass. Violet was looking her very
best ill an exquisite dress of clouds of pale
terra-cotta tulle, caught here and there with
bunches of shaded azaleas, her chief ornament
being a heavy diamond snake round her
neck. She had a very graceful neck, which,
with the pretty droop of her wonderfully white
shoulders, was one of her chief charms.

Mrs. O'Brien watched them with a strange,
fixed, almost glassy look in her dark eyes ; a
little line came between her brows, and a
faintly redder tinge to her cheeks. Then she
turned to Major Ball, who was waiting for her,
looking very like an expectant terrier watching
for a playmate to throw a stone, or begin a
game of romps, and away they started, too.
Rufus and Margaret Beaumont, who were
taking it easy ' on a sofa under a side-gallery,
laughed as they watched the little major bounding
in energetically in the dance, his coat-tails
flying, his short moustache seeming to bristle,
and his snub-nose to rise and expand with exhilaration.
Kate was looking superb in a white
dress with heavy embroideries, and three large

diamond stars in her dark hair. These were
Vyvian jewels, lent her by Violet, who did not
like her friend to be less fine than herself.

'You are looking grand to-night. Upon my
Avoid you are — just like a queen among them
all. Not one can hold a candle to you,' uttered
the little major, With jerky enthusiasm, as they
paused.

Kate smiled, I so sweetly upon him; none
could have guessed how bitterly she was thinking
2: in her heart if Jack's voice had said those

o

words to her, hour greedily her ears would have
drunk in the compliment. She deceived Jack
himself and Violet, who were by chance looking
her way at that instant.

Those two seem very happy together, you see ;
so you may just as well give me the next dance.
What does it matter if we dance a good deal
together to-night ? As you said before, you can
do as you please in London — the only question
is, do you please V

To dance with you ? Of course I do,' softly,
yet half-hesitatingly answered Violet, who
thought it simply paradisaical, and would have

most likely clone so even had not Ramsay
danced almost as well as he rode. In her heart
she was frightened — it was such a pleasure to
be with him ! Where would this lead her ?
She could not pause to think. She must enjoy
herself, be perfectly happy with him this one
night.

Tra-lir-a ! tra-lira-la ! went the music ; on
went the dancers. Once, twice, Jack had
forced himself to a sense of duty and danced
with Kate O'Brien. He had also more gladly
taken his cousin Margaret out of her corner,
who, he knew, had come to that peacefully
discriminating period of life when a woman
prefers quality to quantity in her partners, and
gently observes she does care for a little dancing,
but that it must be good. Kate's simmering
jealousy could not be altogether restrained
when at last she had J back to herself.

So you are coming back to hunt with the
Marshwood Vale again ? I thought we might
perhaps have to say good-bye to you tomorrow.
Captain Ramsay.'

Jack faced round and met Kate's dark, meaning

glance with his blood immediately wanning
lip.

I am coming down again, most certainly.
Have you any objection, Mrs. O'Brien ? Don't
you know 1 always meant to come V

'How could / have any objection?' murmured
Kate, with a soft, slow glance from
which Jack turned away his own, and a low
sigh he feigned not to hear. * I thought we
were too great friends for you to ask me that.
No . . . only I feared something might have
prevented you — and, believe me, I should be so
son-y in that case ; very, very sony.'

It is too kind of you to express so much
regret at a mythical case,' returned Jack, with
a not very pleasant ring of voice. He knew
well enough w^iat she meant : that he might
propose, and would be refused this night by
Violet ; then good-bye to Marshwood Vale.
Shall we take another turn V

He is further gone than I feared,' thought

Kate, in her heart ; and, though she generally

danced well, her feet seemed to lag under lier

as if weighted with lead. Then again, as she

VOL. I. N

felt Jack's arm round her waist and his breath
at times on her cheek — ' He has not spoken to
her yet. I must be cautious, but I icill stop
him. He shall not put me aside for her.' No
thought of poor Violet's generosity, the costly
gown on Kate's back, the diamonds in her
hair, softened the latter's wrathful resolve. Even
at the same moment. Jack was as hotly declaring
within himself,

She wants to put me off. By heavens ! I
won't delay any longer. I will speak to Violet
this very evening.'

Strange that two people should be so near,
and yet no intimation of the opposing thoughts
in the minds of either be perceived by the
other. Perhaps in a better sphere thought maybe
divined without its medium (too often its
mask) of speech. What true and good thoughts
they would needs be, not to bo disowned or
repented of!

It was some little time before Jack Ramsay
was able to get another dance from Violet, to
whom Major Ball had introduced several men
with impulsive kind-heartedness, verily assuring

her, almost before they had got out of
earshot, that they were 'tremendously gone.'
Jack felt inclined to swear inwardly at his
officious friend ; as it was, he grumbled between
his teeth, ' What did you do that for?'

Why, my dear fellow, girls like, I tell you,
to know all the best men in a room. Mrs.
O'Brien asked me if I didn't know young
Ermine and some others. Sbe confided in me
they both could not dance all night with you
and me — don't see why not, myself; and so I
told her.'

All right,' curtly nodded Jack. As Ermine
was a prospective peer, though only a big,
smooth-faced youth as yet, his feelings were
hardly mollified towards Kate. Nevertheless,
he asked her to dance again, ' to get it over,' he
mentally settled ; then Violet should be his partner
for the rest of the precious remaining time.
j\Irs. O'Brien beamed upon him. Her words were
as honey, her smiles ought to have melted any
man's anger. They did seem to affect Jack's
brain : he grew confused, and weaker in his
distrust.

N 2

You are not vexed with me, for any little
hint I dropped just now,' Kate ventured at last
to murmur, feeling more sure of him. ' Believe
me, that with all my heart and soul I would do,
and even suffer, anything that would help your
happiness. Trust me ! — tell me, can I help

itr

She had dared too much. Jack started, for
that passionate declaration might be taken two
ways. He was on his guard again, and replied,
laughing with forced carelessness,

I don't need your help at present, but many
thanks for kind intentions, all the same. Ashen I
do want it, Mrs. O'Brien, you may be sure I shall
come for it.' (' And that day will be far off!' he
added, in his heart.)

At last — at last Jack's patience was rewarded.
Violet was once more his partner. After a turn
or two, Ramsay stopped abruptly.

have you danced enough? Shall we go
upstairs and sit this out V

Violet assented, with a sudden consciousness
that something was coming, and her heart
suddenly fluttered like a little startled bird within

her. They had paused near one of the cunning,
small, winding stairs, leading from either
end of the ball-room to the galleries above.
Mutely both young people went up it, after each
other, feeling as solemn as never before in their
lives. The awful thought was pressing on
Jack's mind, how terribly much he was going
to ask this pure young girl to give up for his
sake. Violet, on her part, was inspired with that
enthusiasm of self-sacrifice which will make a
woman delight in proving the greatness of her
attachment to the man she loves. Yet she
knew at the same time it was much, very much,
she must renounce for his sake — and she was,
let it be owned, a little sorry.

They sat down in two, low, wicker chairs by
a little table, but their eyes were fixed on the
floor, not on the dancers in the hall below.

For a few minutes Jack could not utter a
word. Violet sat silent likewise, and played
nervously with her fan. She knew, now, the
decisive moment was coming. The silence was
intensely trying to them both.

At last Jack pulled himself together, and

looked straight with his true, dark-grey eyes, at
the girl he loved.

Miss Vyvian, you said something this evening
about your not marrying, unless *

Yes. I remember,' was the almost voiceless
answer.

Will you tell me what you meant V Jack

had bent forward in his intense earnestness, his
glance striving to read Violet's soul. Up
popped a dark head, crowned with three diamond
stars, close beside them.

Dear me, this is as bad as what do you call
it — a ship's companion,' exclaimed Mrs. O'Brien's
voice, with much gaiety. ' And, I declare, here
are two other companions ! You both look as
solemn as a pair of owls. Are you hungry for
supper. Captain Ramsay ; for 1 am, I must
honestly confess.'

If you can exist till the end of this dance,'
replied Jack, grimly, to the beautiful vision that
stood over him, ' I shall be happy to do my duties
as host.'

Very well I Major Ball, we must be patient.
Here are two nice chairs close by. Have a

cigarette if you like. I love to do at Rome aR
the Romans do. Would it be correct for me to
smoke myself in this delightfully free-aud-easy
place, I wonder.'

Thereupon the little major cheerfully lit up,
and added some more delicate fumes to the
occasional odour of cigars around.

Might we not as well go down to supper,
Captain Ramsay V "whispered Violet, presently,
feeling that any change would now be preferable
to this proximity of their too-kind feuds.

Jack agreed glumly enough ; he saw there
was no more chance for him that night.

Quite a dainty little feed for old thingamy-
jig, what-d'ye-call-it ? — Lucullus,' observed
Major Ball gaily, as the Heidseick sparkled in
their glasses. * And ain't we a lively little party t'
! we are,' uttered Rufus warmly, with a comic
glance at his neighbour's minute proportions.
Yes ! they were all very gay. And, beyond the
rest. Jack and Violet strove to show quite
especial exhilaration. Unfortunately, the effort
did not prevent Mrs. Beaumont from saying,
with sweet ceaseless.

Violet, you are tired, dear. You look quite
pale. Do let us go home, now, after supper.'
And, as Mrs. O'Brien agreed very decidedly,
the party broke up in spite of Violet's faint
protestations.

Next morning early, they all went down
together to the Forde station again.

CHAPTER X.
*it's for you.'

After the interruption of the frost, and the
diversion of going to London, 'business,' as
Rufus O'Brien termed it, began again at Forde.
Which is to say that hunting was resumed, and
pursued steadily three days a week with unflagging
zeal, not only by their fair M.F.H.,
but by almost all the members of the Marsh-wood
Vale Hunt ; certainly by those who
stabled their horses at the great house of Forde
eleanor, or the smaller whitewashed one of
Littlefordc nestling under the shelter of its big
neighbour.

Jack Ramsay had more than ever, on returning,

dropped into an accustomed place among
them all. He was of a very domestic nature ;
and having had no real home of his own for
some years, no mother now to rejoice in her
boy's return, no sister to alternately pet and
scold him, and likewise be loftily ' looked after '
by his superior self — for his only and dearly-loved
one was wooed and married, and off to a
far distant land — he attached himself all the
more warmly to Margaret, his cousin, and little
Dolly. They supped the home affection ; and
up yonder, beyond the park woods, was the
object of his deepest man's love. What more
could he want ?

Violet was busy writing to her agent one
afternoon, full of the pious feeling that * virtue
is its own reward.' She hated writing at that
particular time. Jack Ramsay had just come
up for a game of tennis on the as^Dhalte court,
and she could hear his voice and Kate O'Brien's
higher tones ringing through the open window
as they were having a grand rally.

Violet would have given a good deal to be
out with them ; but ' duty is duty,' as she said to

herself, with a disgusted wrinkle of her nose,
wishing that she could truthfully feel ' duty is
pleasure.' Her letter was about a sudden
matter of some importance, on which she was
obliged to consult her man of business, and the
post was soon going out.

'Lord Guisard,' a servant announced, throwing
open the door.

Violet was obliged to rise and play the
hostess, with an apologetic explanation.

Will you not join the tennis-party outside i
you will find Mrs. O'Brien there, and I am certain
she will be charmed to have you as a
partner,' said the girl, sweetly. * Unfortunately,
for a few minutes longer, I must make use of
my pen, instead of brandishing a tennis-bat.'

I'd rather wait for you. I don't want Mrs.
O'Brien for a partner. I'll sit here,' said his
lordship, gruffly ; he had one of those voices
that never attempt the least pleasant change of
intonation, but always emit just the same
monotonous notes

never knew a man put so many I's into
his sentences,' thought Violet, resuming her

writing. But her train of elaborate instructions
was disturbed. There was a certain air of
solemnity about the visitor, and an emphasis in his
words that gave Miss Vyvian an uncomfortable
presentiment ; and presently, after some hesitating
thought, she glanced cautiously round at her
noble guest. He was lolling in a deep armchair,
and having taken out a costly ' Thornhill '
pocket-knife was engaged in whittling a wart
on his left hand.

Violet returned to her letter, and slowly
finished a paragraph. Lord Guisard, with a
great yawn, had turned on his other side, and
was jingling all the loose coin in his pocket,
looking particularly fat and ungraceful as he
did so.

*He is a perfect Tom Tiddler's ground-wants
to make me remember how rich he is,'
thought our heiress, with fine scorn.

A Httle more business-letter. The guest was
now admiring a row of thick gold rings on his
fat fingers. They were so many that the famed
Lady of Banbury Cross could hardly have
roused envy in his bosom; indeed, they so

covered the joints of bis podgy digits that these
stuck somewhat stiffly out. Next an eighty-guinea
watch was taken forth, opened, examined,
snapped, turned over and over.

I bother the man. If be were to sit for
half-an-hour a day for a week in my sitting-room,
I should go perfectly crazy before
Sunday,' thought Miss Vyvian. And if ever
any faintest suggestions, months ago, as to the
possibility of fulfilling her dear, whimsical, old
father's wishes by marrying Lord Guisard had
crossed her mind, the present experience of such
a companion would most rapidly have dispelled
them.

There! Thank goodness the signature wa
dashed off, the envelope fastened. One last
peep out of the * tail ' of Violet's eyes. The
elaborate pocket-knife was once more in request,
and his lordship's wart receiving fresh
attention.

Violet rose with an air of l^risk determination,
and rang the bell, giving her letter to a
servant.

And now, Lord Guisard, shall we come out

and join the rest ? You would like a game of
tennis, I knoAv.'

Then you know all wrong. I don't care for
either Captain Ramsay or Mrs. O'Brien,' returned
his lordship, with that engaging candour
for which he was famous, especially towards
ladies. In men's society he was of a silent
turn, some said sullen. Suddenly he remembered
that after lunch his mother, when sending
him out to victory, had warned him to lose
no time in cutting out that young soldier in
Violet's favour, but ' not to show any jealousy.'
And, whatever his other faults, Guisard had a
profound respect for that terrible old lady ;
and considerable belief in her sagacity. So he
graciously added,

I don't mind that gunner. He's not a bad
fellow, I think ; but I did not come here to visit
Mrs. O'Brien. My mother says she is a person
she does not like, at all.'

Indeed V ejaculated Violet ; so taken

aback at this sudden attack on her friend and
chaperon, she found nothing else to say.

'No. My mother never approved of her
manners from the first. Now she is very fond
of you, and told me to give you her love today.'


Really I' (Miss Vyvian was longing to say,
You do me proud!' The corners of her mouth
were twitching sarcastically, but she refrained.
At the same time, Violet did not despise the
compliment as coming from the old viscountess.
Indeed, she had rather a liking for the bitter-tongued,
shrewd, old woman, who was so honest
that the girl believed no amount of wealth ina
prospective daughter-in-law would have induced
her to sham the least amount of liking
that she did not really feel.)

I am sorry Lady Guisard does not care for
my friend,' Violet thought it better to add in a
light tone, but with a serious expression, * However,
as Mrs. O'Brien is my friend, and likely to
live with me still a long rime, don't you think
we had better drop the subject V

But she can't live with you when you're
married. By Jove ! no man would stand that,'

expostulated his lordship. ' She has such a
doosid disagreeable manner — thinks herself so
awfully clever. ! come — I — I — 1 '

There is no need to discuss such an event,
Lord Guisard freezing.

I don't know that ; I — I don't, upon my
word,' responded his lordship, jocularly, fixing
his eyeglass, and then staring favourably upon
the happy maiden whom he had privately
marked as his own. ' Time you had somebody
to look after you better than this Irish fellow
O'Brien. Fine old name ; no one to come after
you ; everybody thinks it's an awful pity.'

Violet controlled her annoyance and attempted
a smile, though it was not a brilliant success.

I am afraid it would not quite do. The
truth is, Lord Guisard, I am very fond of my
own way, so that I prefer being certain of
getting it.'

I see. Quite right — I don't blame you.
Just what my mother said ; that you've been
your own mistress long enough, now, to make
you take the bit between your teeth if anyone
tried to drive you. I like it — fine spirit.' Then,

after paining to take fresh courage, he tried

another plunge.

Come ; look here, Miss Vivian, I"il tell yon
what it is, if you won't hang away from the
pole too much and will go up t j von collar, I
think 1 and you would run verT well in double
harness together. I'd hunt the hounds, and we'd
send that old driveller Tom HarkhoUer about
his business. Lots of fellows like me sell
their titles only for tin, but I've lots of that, and
a nice girl of good family, as my mother says — '
But the remainder of his sentence was cut
short as Violet rose flushing with anger and
pride.

'Lord Guisard,' she said, controlling her
feelings with difficulty, ' what do you mean by
speaking to me in this manner? You are 2'oi::^'

too far ; and presuming in a way - .:-. :

strange. You forget yourself, my 1 mori."

You are angry about your favourite old Tom ;
1 might have known it. Well, there, there ; we
won t say any more about it. Can't you talk
sensibly to a man without flying out in that way
and kicking over the traces V

VOL. I. O

His lordship looked so rueful, and there was
such a comical element iu the whole incident,
that Violet saw only the ludicrous side of the
proposal. And, believing that her suitor had
accepted his refusal with as good a grace as
could be expected of him, she sought at once to
soften the blow to his vanity, with her usual
good-hearted desire to spare the feelings of all
who were brought into contact with herself in
daily life.

So she sat down again with more confidence,
saying kindly,

Well, Lord Guisard, I will forgive you this
time ; but please don't talk any more nonsense tome.
I don't suppose you came here merely to
pay me empty compliments. Come, tell me
all your news, and how is Lady Guisard's
rheumatism V

Ah, girl of sense ! Recovered your temper,
I'm glad to see. 0, my mother's all right — no,
I mean all wrong — but she's quite used to the
pain, so I never think about it.'

Gossey, as he answered, gazed with an approving,
bland smile overspreading his fat

features upon his secretly-chosen partner for life.
He did not think himself refused, not a bit of it.
That unlucky allusion to Tom Harkholler had
nearly spoilt the whole affair, but he had cleverly
extricated himself, so he considered. Little
dreaming of the honours still condescendingly
held out to her grasp, Violet proceeded
absently,

And so you don't care for lawn-tennis ? I am
sorry, for I am very fond of it, and was going to
propose that we should join the others for a
game.'

Her eyes were overlooking his lint white poll,
gazing to where out yonder, at the end of the
tennis-court, she could just see a straight, tall
form in white flannels. What a contrast was
there ! She roused, with a start, to the consciousness
that Lord Guisard was progressing
along the sofa on which he was sitting and thus
approaching the end nearest her (^wn chair ;
'galumphing' onwards, as ' Ace in Wonderland'
has it, by sidelong movements.

I've something to show you — do you like it,
eh t' and fumbling with obese struggles in one

o 2

pocket he produced a little leather jewel-case,
and opening it displayed a diamond ring.

I am no judge of stones. Your lordship is
such a connoisseur in rings, I daresay it is a
fine one,' said Violet, coldly ; feeling really nervous
in her heart, and wishing she was out of the
situation. Next moment, to her horror, she
found her left hand caught fast, whilst Lord
Guisard attempted to put the ring on her fourth
finger with heavy gallantry.

It's for you. Engaged finger, you know.'

Up sprang Violet and tried to free herself in
dismay. Lord Guisard, mistaking the action
for maiden coyness, still insisted. Then, with an
angry sweep of her hand, Violet tore oft' the
ring that fell and thence bounded away.

I say, confound it, you've gone and lost it !
It's one of London and Ryder's too, that I got
down on approbation,' uttered Guisard, after a
moment or two of infuriated silence, growing as
red as a turkey-cock.

'I'm dreadfully sorry. Shall I help you to
find it?' apologised Violet, so thankful to see
that her suitor must now understand his defeat,

that she would not quarrel with his manner of
taking his rejection.

'It's all you can do, now,' growled the discomfited
swain.

Forthwith, Violet went down on her knees, to
search in the furthest corner of the room, while
Goosey grovelled on hands and knees under a
round table, muttering,

Cost a hundred and forty-five. Daresay
there will be a stone out.'

The door opened at that moment to admit
three radiant people, to wit, Kate O'Brien, Jack,
and Rufus.

'I have won three pairs of gloves, Violet,'
cried the first.

Is that letter not finished yet, Miss Vyvian ?

We've come to insist ' and Jack broke off

short.

Mother of Closes !' muttered Rufus, with a
vide grin, as all three stood gazing at the
scene.

*Lord Guisard has just dropped one of his
rings — hero it is ! I've found it,' explained
Violet, rising, flushed but triumphant.

Kate darted foi-ward to inspect the object of
search.

What a sweet ring, but so small ! What
little hands you must have, Lord Guisard. I
should have thought this only fit for a lady's
finger. See ! — it fits mine ;' and she held it up
with a provoking air of playful malice.

Give it back to me,' growled Goosey, scrambling
up from his plantigrade attitude, and
advancing, with extreme alacrity, upon his fair
tormentor.

If scowls could kill, Mrs. O'Brien, as she afterwards
declared, would have been slain there
and then. As, however, to tease him still further,
she persistently gazed with admiring scrutiny
at her prize, he promptly snatched the ring
himself from her finger.

Kate gave a little cry of partly mock
pain.

Oh — you quite hurt me ! How can you be
so violent, Lord Guisard ? Did you imagine I
wished to steal your ring V I declare, I would
not be your wife for worlds. Indeed, I should
think you will find it pretty difficult to get any

girl to many yon, if you maltreat us poor women
in this manner.'

Jack and Rufus, by this time, could hardly
keep their countenances ; merely to look at the
evidently rejected lover's face was enough to
make them almost explode with laughter.

We were just going out to have a game of
lawn-tennis with you all ; were we not ? Shall
we come now?' put in Violet, coming to the
rescue, and looking appealingly at Kate, to
stop her sport of live-lord baiting. But Goosey
would not be appeased.

'No, thank you, Miss Vyvian. I believe 1
have stayed in this house long enough.'

And, presenting a limp hand to his hostess,
to be touched if she chose to so please herself,
while bestowing only a nod and wrathful glance
upon the other occupants of the room, on whose
faces he detected gleams of their secret mirth,
his lordship slouched out of the door.

Kate fairly clapped her hands.

Well, that is the greatest treat I have had
for ages. I don't know when I have enjoyed
anything so much. My dearest Violet, I would

have given worlds to have seen you give him
his cone; it must have been a delicious scene !'

'I think Miss Vyvian has already wasted
more of her afternoon on our friend Guisard
than he deserves. Come out now — I have just
played three sets with Mrs. O'Brien — won't you
play with me, in your turn f interrupted Jack
Kamsay, his eyes shining down on Violet with
a look in which gladness, approval, fun, but a
wish to shield her from all further petty annoyance
at present were blended.

One suitor off the list,' checked Kate, thoughtfully,
upon her fingers, as she remained behind.

CHAPTER XL

TRYING A YOUNG UN.

The shortest month in the year had nearly sped,
and every day the so-called platonic friendship
that Jack and Violet had mutually agreed upon
was fast merging on either side into a warmer
and stronger feeling.

Seldom a day passed without their meeting.
Jack had usually some good excuse for going
up to Forde Manor. One day it was to go over
the kennels, or see a puppy that had unexpectedly
come in from walk ; another to take Violet
a note from Margaret Beaumont ; or, if no other
excuse offered itself, he wanted to have a smoke
and a chat with Rufus.

Violet, on her part too, was a constant visitor
at Littleforde ; village charities, and many other
matters in which she and Mrs. Beaumont were
equally interested, furnished her with a pretext
for visiting that lady ; and so these two drifted
on and on — getting to see more and care more
for each other than either would have dared to
acknowledge — and gradually learning to watch
for each other's advent with an eagerness that
could hardly be attributed to mere friendship.
Yes, it was the old, old story of two beings of
opposite sex, with tastes much in common,
being more and more attracted towards each
other, drifting along the quiet stream of friendship
out into the deep sea of love, and beginning
to think life but dreary work when they
were separated.

Almost imperceptibly, during the last fortnight,
Violet had got into the way of asking
Jack for advice on many points, not only connected
with the management of her business
affairs, but of her stable. She did not for a
moment doubt or mistrust good, honest Rufus.
Still, somehow, she always fancied she ' should

just like to have Captain Ramsay's opinion,' as
she argued with herself. And so Jack had been
consulted on more points than one ; and had, on
one occasion, been able, through a city friend,
to put not only Violet, but Rufus and Mrs.
Beaumont, up to an uncommonly good investment,
an incident that made Rufus also entertain
feelings of gi-attitude towards him and respect
his judgment. This, coupled with the sentiments
that Violet as well as Kate felt for Jack,
combined to make him a universal favourite at
Forde Manor, and, thenceforth, he came to be
regarded as one of the community.

One day Jack had walked up to Forde Manor
with a setting of eggs from prize poultry that
Violet was particularly anxious to possess, and
having handed them over to that young lady,
and assisted her in placing them under a hen
(not a very congenial occupation for a dashing
horse-artilleryman ! — but what will not men do
when stricken by the dart of that mischief-loving
god, Eros ?) had been asked to stay to
lunch ; of which invitation he gladly availed
himself.

Towards the close of that pleasant meal, a
footman came in with a message that a farmer
had brought over a horse for Violet to see.

Rather late in the season isn't it, Miss Vyvian,
to add to your stud V questioned Jack.

Yes, perhaps it is ; but you know I lamed
poor old Trumpeter the other day, and I must
have something to take his place and finish the
season on. Besides, I have seen this horse going
very well ; and as Wilford is a tenant of
mine, and times are bad, I should be glad to do
him a good turn and buy the horse if he suited
me,' replied Violet.

^ Ah ! you are a model landlord !' laughed
Jack, 'and, I presume, hold the opinion that
those who want horses ought to buy straight
from the breeder, and put into his pocket the
dealer's commission ! and a very laudable opinion
it is, too.'

Yes,' interrupted Rufus, ' Violet is always
right, and I should be glad if Wilford could sell
this animal, for he is a real good one and a
rare fencer.'

Come along then,' said Violet, rising from

the table. ' If you all will go and look the
horse over, I will just run upstairs, slip on my
habit, and meet you in the stable-yard.'

In a few minutes she joined the rest of the
party, who were engaged in critically examining
the animal in question — a dark, well-bred
four-year-old iron-grey, well up to thirteen
stone. He was a fairly-shaped horse, and would,
no doubt, in time develop into a good hunter,
but, rough and ragged as he was, did not look
very attractive. Violet had, however, seen the
horse going well in a fast run ; and, moreover,
noticed that he was clever as well as temperate
at his fences.

Good afternoon, Mr. Wilford,' she remarked,
on joining the group. * So you have brought
the grey up for me to see? I suppose you
won't mind my getting on him and trying him
over a few fences V

Lor bless 'ee, no, miss,' returned the jolly
farmer. ' Yew can keep 'un and thy 'un for a
week, if yew be so minded — though I du think
flv(2 minutes '11 be enough for yew, miss ; but
do 'ee get on 'un, and if yew can put 'un down,

dang it all ! I'll give 'un to ye,' he added, with
emphasis, slapping his thigh.

Jack and Risus, who had been examining
the horse carefully, having expressed their
approval of him, Violet ordered a groom to
fetch her saddle. Whilst it was being brought,
Jack said, in a low tone,

I wish you would let me get on the horse
first, bliss Vyvian, and just see what sort of
mouth he has, before you try him ; even if he
doesn't quite suit you, he may do for me.'

! certainly. Mr. Wilford,' turning to that
worthy, 'you will not mind Captain Ramsay
trying the horse first, will you ? If he does not
suit me, perhaps the captain may deal with
you.'

No objection being made, Jack was soon on
the grey's back, and made for a paddock at the
back of the stables, which formed part of the
home-farm of Forde Manor. The animal moved
freely and well, and, once on the turf, trotted
away with wiry and corky action. Round the
paddock Jack took him, the horse bending and
giving to his hand in a manner he hardly expected,

for raw young horses straight from a
farmer's stable are not generally the most perfectly
bitted animals in the world. Violet looked
on with admiration as she noticed the horse's
true level action, and she felt a keen desire to
be on his back. In the hands of such a finished
horseman as Ramsay, the horse certainly looked
his best; and Violet had been too constantly
amongst horses, and ridden too much herself,
to be influenced in her judgment by the gi*ey's
somewhat rough exterior. Jack now Walked
the horse back to the end of the paddock, which
was somewhat long and narrow, preparatory
to extending him, and testing his jumping-powers.


There was a sort of little steeplechase course
of nati-al fences laid out round the farm about
a mile in length, and consisting of eight or nine
fences, including a small brook. This was used
for schooling young horses, and often proved
useful in trying a fresh animal over. Round
this course Jack now proposed to take the grey.
On reaching the end of the paddock lie turned
the horse round, and cantered down to the first

fence, a small flying one with a ditch on the
landing-side. This the grey swung over in his
stride, and then Jack, with a slight pressure of
the knees, increased his pace. The next fence
was a single bank, and to this succeeded a
couple more easy fences all of which the horse
jumped in good form. The fifth obstacle was a
really good stiff double — broad on the top,
certainly, but pleached with stout unbending
binders, and a wide ditch on each side. A big
jump, in fact ; but, if taken quietly and temperately,
not an unfair one.

As the grey approached it he cocked his ears,
and, just for an instant quickening his stride,
landed lightly on the top, dwelt for a moment,
then launched safely out over the ditch on the
far side, and went sailing on in his stride.

Well done, young 'un,' said Jack, leaning
forward and patting the horse's arched neck.
Now,' added he, ' we have only to see how
you like timber and water, and, if you do those
as well as you have the other fences, I think
you'll do:

Across a deep holding fallow they now went.

and the way the horse moved through dirt
increased his value in Jack's eyes. He got his
haunches well under him, and seemed to put
his heart into it, in a manner betokening that he
was possessed of staying as well as galloping
powers. The fence out of the plough was small
but trappy ; and necessitated a horse being
pulled into a walk, creeping under the overhanging
branches of a tree, and then jumping
over a blind ditch on to the top of a narrow
bramble covered bank nearly level with the
field on the landing side. In fact, just such a
place as would bring to considerable grief a
good many horses with high pretensions to be
called hunters.

Here again the grey acquitted himself to
perfection, and negotiated the place in a manner
quite beyond his years. The next field
was a large pasture divided by a flight of stiffish
post and rails, nearly four feet high, and of
a toughness that betokened a horse could take
no liberties with them. At one end of these
there was an opening left, for they were not
usually jumped during the ordinary schooling

VOL. I. r

process of the Force Manor stud. Jack, however,
was a glutton at timber, and such an
opportunity was not to be neglected ; so he
bore away somewhat out of the beaten track.
As he neared the rails, he pulled his horse into
a trot, and with a deer-like bound the grey
sprang cleanly and lightly over them, shaking
his head and giving a snort on landing, as much
as to say, ' Surely you didn't think that was
going to stop me !'

Jack was decidedly pleased. Now only the
brook remained at the end of the next field, a
large sound pasture. Catching the horse tight
by the head, Ramsay sent him along at his best
pace, mindful of the fact that water should
always be gone at fast. The grey, however,
was perhaps not much accustomed to water-jumping
; moreover, the afternoon sun, glinting
on its placid surface, might have had a somewhat
disturbing effect on his mind ; for as he
approached the brook his stride became shorter
and shorter, and almost on the brink he swerved
sharply to the left in a manner that would have
unseated a less practised and experienced rider.

Jack, however, did not lose his temper, but
walked the horse np to the edge of the stream
and let him look at it well, while he spoke to
him in soothing tones, and patted his neck.
The grey stood snorting and trembling on the
rush-grown bank, sniffing at the water which
had for him such apparently unknown terrors ;
but, reassured by the kindly tones and treatment
of his rider, his fears seemed to fade away,
and he evinced almost a wish to thy to jump
it standing. This Jack by no means intended
him to do. He must swing over it in his stride,
or not at all, the rider argued ; so, walking back
to the end of the field, Ramsay again set him
at the brook. Confidence, however, was not
yet entirely restored, and two more refusals
were the result. A fourth time the pair now
essayed the task. The * suavity in modo '
having thrice failed, Jack thought it time to
adopt the 'fortitcr in re,' and, catching the
horse in a vice-like grasp, he gave him a couple
of shai-p digs with the spurs, muttering at the
same time, ' Tn or over we go this time, ni'
young friend.' Decision and determination won

r2

the day, and, finding further resistance useless,
the grey gave up the contest, and did his best,
which resulted in a great soaring bound that
landed them safely on the far side.

As Jack walked the horse back to where
Rufus and the O'Briens were standing grouped
on a little rising knoll that commanded a good
view of the course, he said,

Well, Miss Vyvian, I think he'll do ; he is a
good little horse, and would suit you well after
a little more schooling at water, which he doesn't
seem quite to understand. If you are going to
try him to-day, I beg you won't try him at
that;

Do you think I'm afraid V responded Violet,
somewhat hotly, flushing up.

No, 1 don't doubt your courage for one moment
; but twelve feet of open water is what I
would not like to see any sister of mine, or lady
friend either, ride a raw young horse at. Please
don't try it. Promise me, will you V he added,
in low and entreating tones.

Let me try the horse first — I don't mind the
chance of a ducking,' broke in Kate, with an

irritating laugh and meaning glance at Jack,
in tones that implied she was Cavilling to incur
risk for the sake of exhibiting her courage.

Jack merely shrugged his shoulders ; but the
taunt was too much for Violet, and her decision
was made on the spot. Jack, in one of his
conversations with her, had said there was no
quality he despised so much in man or woman
as cowardice. He, at any rate, should never
accuse her of this ; so she made no reply, but
merely ordered the groom to take the horseback
to the stable and put on her saddle, whilst
she went indoors to write a note.

In about twenty minutes she reappeared, and
Jack, as he hoisted her into the saddle, whispered,


Please don't try the water.'

A low laugh, and saucy glance with the
words, ' You know you despise cowards of
cither sex,' was all the reply vouchsafed to
him, as she gathered up her reins, and moved
on.

Jack was depressed, horribly depressed. He
felt sure Violet would try the horse over the

brook, and he had an inward conviction that
some accident would be the result. He knew
Violet's courage and determination, and that,
moreover, she was a good horsewoman ; but still,
riding a made hunter well and straight to
hounds was a different thing from riding a
young horse at water in cold blood without the
excitement that every horse feels in the accompanying
music of the pack. For this reason he
determined to take a short cut to the brook, in
order to be at hand should any contretemps
occur.

Where are you going, Captain Ramsay V inquired
Kate, as he turned away from where she
and Rufus had taken up their position on the
top of the mound.

0, merely down to the brook, just to see
how the grey acquits himself under the lighter
hand of a lady,' replied Jack, carelessly.

Under cover of a high, hazel-topped bank
which screened him from observation, he ran
fast at a pace that soon brought him to the
spot, and here he awaited Violet's approach.
In the meantime that young lady had been

walking and trotting the grey about, much to
her satisfaction, which was greatly increased by
the Nay he galloped and jumped all the fences
she asked him to try. Jack, from his post of
observation, sav her land into the field across
which stretched the post and rails. He, moreover,
observed the grey negotiate the stiff timber
in faultless style, and then he noticed Yiolet
quicken her pace and race her horse at the
water. Down they came, the horse sweeping
along with true, level action, with ears pricked,
and with the lesson Jack had given him evidently
implanted firmly in his mind. Water was
not such a hard thing to jump after all, and could
not hurt or prick one ! was evidently the way
the matter was argued in the equine mind ; and
so, straight and true, he set his head for the
brook, Violet sitting square and well back in
her saddle with her hands down. Nearer and
nearer they came ; there were no signs of refusing
this time, and Jack, who had been in an
agony of suspense, almost began to breathe
freely again — when, at the very moment the
horse was preparing to take off, up jumped a

moorhen from under the flag and rush-grown
bank and went glittering along the water with
a croak of alarm. This was too much for the
grey's nerves; all his previous courage and determination
vanished in an instant at the sound
and sight of this unwonted noise and apparition.
He checked himself suddenly, tried to swerve ;
then, seeing it was too late, made a frantic,
floundering side-jump, and then — there was a
splash as horse and rider disappeared underwater
!

Jack's feelings may be more easily imagined
than described as he saw the imminent danger
of the woman he cared for above all else. A
thousand thoughts shot through his brain ; and,
as he hastily threw off his coat and rushed to
the spot, varied emotions caused his heart to
throb, and the veins to swell out on his forehead
till they seemed as if they must burst.
His one great fear was that Violet might be
under her horse, and by getting entangled, and
dragged down by the weight of her habit, be
exposed to the risk of drowning independently
of such injuries as the struggling steed might

inflict ou liLT with his hoofs. But with all this
ho acted coolly and calmly. And there was
no plunging in, indiscriminately, in a futile
and aimless manner. As the grey's head appeared
above water, Ramsay shot one swift
glance down stream, and then, catching sight
of a bit of Violet's habit as it bulged slowly upto
the surface, he slid quietly down the bank
into the water. In two or three powerful
strokes he grasped the girl's skirt, and half
wading, half-swimming, gained the opposite
shore. Once upon terra-firma, he lifted Violet's
soaked and inanimate form in his arms, and
carried her up the bank as well as he could ;
a task of no slight difficulty considering the
weight of her saturated garments.

0, God I can she be dead V he thought,
as she lay with her head hanging back — the
masses of her golden-brown hair all uncoiled,
dank, and dripping with moisture. ' Miss Vyvian,
Speak to me I Arc you hurt ? Oh ! Violet,' he
added, in agonised tones, * can't you say one
word ?' but no response came from her blue
lips.

Still Jack did not despair or lose his wits, but,
holding her in the manner prescribed for restoring
animation in the apparently drowned, after
a moment or two had the satisfaction of seeing
her breathe. In the meantime, Rufus and Kate,
with several of the stable-men, who had been
spectators of the scene at a distance, hurried
down, whilst other servants soon followed with
blankets and restoratives. A gate was promptly
unhung, and Violet's unconscious form laid on
it, and borne towards the house.

Get her into a warm bath, and then to bed as
quickly as you can. I'll catch the grey and go
for a doctor,' said Jack to the assembled groups
who were standing horror-struck. ' Only be
sharp,' he added, in tones of command.

In the meantime the horse, who had scrambled
out on the same side of the brook, was
easily caught, and jumping on his back Jack
shoved him along straight across country
towards the village, where the doctor resided,
in a manner that astonished the quadruped.
Mingled were his feelings in that quick and
excited ride, and he breathed a prayer from his

heart to that Throne of Grace — before ^vhich no
petition is presented in vain, even though it
may not be answered in the way we wish, nor
as rapidly as we desire, — that the life of this
woman, Who had become so very, very dear to
him, might be spared.

CHAPTER XII.

DOLLY TELLS TALES.

Captain Ramsay has been paying me a little
visit, Violet ; and was asking how you feel this
morning. And Dolly is with him, and is worrying
our lives out to know may she see you ; but
I don't suppose you care to be bothered with
her.'

So announced Mrs. O'Brien, the third day
after Violet's accident, coming into the pretty
little room that was Miss Vyvian's most especial
sanctum. Violet had been suffering rather
severely from a chill brought on by her immersion
; but she was now better, and was lying

on a sofa, looking pale but very sweet, dressed
in a pretty morning wrapper.

Yes, but I do want to see little Dolly ; she is
always welcome,' answered Violet, quickly,
liJ^lf-raising herself. * And — if Captain Ramsay
cares to come up for a few minutes, too, 1
don't mind seeing him either. It will help to
pass the time.'

Very well ; I can tell him so. Of course
you know best ; but I should have thought you
were hardly strong enough to have so many in
the room,'^ came in a rather constrained voice
from Kate, as she stood still, looking down at
the recumbent figure, as if waiting for this
request for Ramsay's presence to be rescinded.
But Violet had a spice of quiet obstinacy in her
nature, not often drawn upon, but that now she
meant to use ; and, With a little malice in her
still feeble smile, she returned, in an innocent
tone,

There will only be two visitors, after all. Not
more than you and Rufus, or you and Margaret
Beaumont, whom I've seen every day twice.'

0, very well ! But don't you want me to

play propriety for you, dear V said Kate, in a
nonchalant tone, moving towards the door.

It is not necessary when Dolly is there. She
is chaperon enough for a dozen people. And there
will be hardly time to finish those letters for me
before post — if you don't mind writing them,'
still persevered Violet, gently.

Mrs. O'Brien thought it wisest to retreat from
the untenable position. She was discomfited,
but observed to herself,

after all, nothing can be said before Dolly,
if he wants to come to the point. She is such
a little pitcher, and repeats everything she
hears.'

(' Come to see you ! Ah ! I know better, poor
Kate. You may have all the attentions of the
other men, but I have his love, and I want to
keep it,' thought Violet to herself, leaning back
on her cushions, with a glad little smile, yet
pitying her friend's illusion.)

Every dog has his day, says the old saw;
and much more every girl loves to have her
one happy time (as she tells herself) when
she knows that she is dearest of all others

to the man her licart has secretly learnt to
worship.

Presently bliss Beaumont burst gleefully into
the room, her little person looking like a ball of
white cashmere and swansdown, With only a
small portion of rosy animated face visible
under her winter bonnet.

How IS 'oo?* she exclaimed, standing on tiptoe
to deliver a volley of kisses, whilst Jack,
coming in very quietly behind, stood and waited
his turn for a long hand-clasp, much longer
than usual. Miss Dolly's sharp eyes could not
make much of that.

I am so glad to see you,' went on Ramsay,
sitting softly down by Violet's couch, and hardly
taking his eyes off the sweet face so near him ;
still his was such an unobtrusive, albeit devoted
glance cf homage it could not discountenance
the invalid, though her nerves were yet weak.
He Avent on modestly, ' I came to ask after you
yesterday, and the day before.'

I know responded Violet ; who had heard
from Rufus that Jack had been haunting the
house, had asked not only once each day after

her, but morning, noon, and night. This information
was, however, not excited without
some artful questions.

'Ramsay has been here again,' O'Brien Avould
volunteer, while racking his brains during his
frequent visits for some news to interest the
patient. ' Why did he come twice, do you say ?
AVell, there's nothing to do at Littleforde. I suppose
he got sick of mooning about alone there,
so he and I went for a turn round the kennels.
What were we talking about ? — about the
hounds, of course. By-the-way, he asked how
you were ; he wanted to know if the doctor had
said anything fresh since. Old Pillow hadn't
come when Ramsay was up here this morning.'

In this way Rufus, without knowing it, acted
as Cupid's messenger, and would have been
considerably astonished had he guessed his
ofBce.

For a while, Jack and Violet talked quietly
and happily together. Her hand was lying
listlessly on the arm of the sofa, and somehow
a larger, browner hand approached it, and presently
closed over it. The spoken talk slackened

then perceptibly. Violet lay very still, but
feeling a new sense of happiness stealing over
her with that protecting touch ; and a great
deal of silent speech no doubt passed between
them.

Dolly did not remark this state of affairs, or
else wrongly supposed two people so quiet
must be rather bored than otherwise. So, after
a tour of inspection round the pretty, old-fashioned
room, that was all redolent of pot-pourra
of roses in big china jars, and hung with
time-worn silk that only made its young mistress
look all the fresher — a human flower — the
child pushed herself into the disjointed murmurs
of conversation.

We've dot a new game, Uncle Jack and I
have, Auntie Violet.' (Dolly called most people
^vith whom she was intimate either aunts
or uncles. In this case, the implied relationship
between her two elders gave them a slight
but pleasant sense of embarrassment.) ' Uncle
Jack brought me a box of chokes from London,
and he gives me some at night. But first
I have to say who I love best. Mother first

VOL. r. Q

best, and then you best, and then him best.
One night 1 said him best, after mother, but
he wouldn't give me no chokes till I said it
right.'

sand, now, one little girl I know has a
naughty trick of waking up at night, and crying
for Uncle Jack, just v>^hen nurse is down at
supper, till she gets another chocolate. That
is very bad, Dolly. I'm not coming any more,'
put in Jack, with an air of grave rebuke.

All the same, the hand that lay upon Violet's
smaller one pressed perceptibly tighter.

You's naughty, too,' retorted Dolly, defiantly.
' He's a very bad boy. Auntie Violet ; I'll
tell you! Isn't it naughty to steal f sidling
close to Violet, and looking at Jack from under
her lashes with roguish mischief.

Very naughty, Dolly. But I am sure Captain
Ramsay would not do such a thing. He
never takes sugar or jam when nobody is
looking.'

Well, he took something else,' uttered Dolly,
triumphantly, feeling strong in a new magisterial

capacity. ' One day, at our house, you dropped
your ponky-henksy,' (anglice, handkerchief),
and, when you went out of the room, I saw
Uncle Jack put it inside his coat. I fitted
under the table, and saw him.'

I believe I did pick up one of yours, Miss
Vyvian. I'm awfully sony ; I ought to have
brought it back next day, but I suppose I forgot
it,' stammered Jack, conscious of a red flush
travelling over his browned features right up to
his forehead; and feeling guilty of never having
meant to restore that scented cobweb of lace
and cambric to its lawful owner, but instead of
having jealously kept it, and bestowed thereupon
some secret relic-worship.

0, it does not matter. Ashen you remember,
it will 1)0 time enough,' murmured Violet,
reflecting his flush faintly.

Neither looked at each other, but Dolly,
staring at them both, observed, with familiar
frankness,

Uncle Jack's got red; and now you've got
red, too.'

q2

I've brought a flower for you this morning,'
interrupted Jack, desperately ; taking a lovely
orchid bloom from his button-hole, and laying
it on Violet's lap. ' It's pretty, isn't it. I got
it for you out of the Littleforde storehouse.
Margaret has wonderfully good flowers therefor
such a little place as it is. I thought you
might like it.'

I do, indeed. It is kind of you to think of
me,' was breathed low from between Violet's
lips.

Don't you know I always do, and always
shall think of you ?' came in quick response ;
and Ramsay bent forward with a sudden light
in his grey eyes, that seemed to touch Violet's
own with soft, responsive fire.

'Here is Mrs. Beaumont come to see you,
Violet announced Mrs. O'Brien, opening the
door at that moment, with a bland smile, as if
giving the invalid quite the most welcome
diversion possible. ' Only, I am afraid we are
rather a large party for you now, are we
not?'

I will say good-bye,' said Jack, springing

up. ' Good-morning, Miss Vyvian ; I am very
glad to have seen you.'

Well, Dolly ; are you going away with Uncle
Jack, and not going to stay with mother?' called
Margaret, in tones of blandishment, after her
vanishing small daughter.

'Me's going to find Uncle Rufus. I want
him,' called back Dolly, clutching fast hold of
Jack's hand and dragging him away ; evidently
determined to keep one bird in hand till sure of
that in the bush.

Dolly is the greatest flirt I know,' observed
Mrs. O'Brien, with a touch of sarcasm. * She
always prefers gentlemen to the company of us
poor mortals. What a blessing for her, that she
is still able to indulge in her very natural taste
without unkind remarks being made.'

She is very devoted to your husband ;
but he seems especially fond of children, he
is so kind to Dolly. She likes those who like
her,' was Margaret's rather cold reply. Then,
turning to Violet, * And how are you to-day,
dear? Why, you are looking ever so much
better — you have quite a colour, I declare. Do

you know, I've had a great disappointment this
morning. I have been cherishing a pet orchid-blossom
for the last three days for you ; such a
beauty I' (here she gave a Latin polysyllabic
name that was enough to frighten anyone buta
connoisseur), ' and, would you believe it, when
I went to cut it just now, it was gone ! Jinks
either doesn't know, or won't tell what has
become of it. He was in such a rage in his
heart yesterday, I could see, at the mere idea of
my cutting his precious flower, that I half-suspect
him of having made away with it.'

Violet felt a guilty tremor. Her gaze
travelled apprehensively down to the blossom
that lay on her couch. Kate noticed the look,
and said quietly, but with a burning upleap of
jealousy in her heart she had to struggle hard
not to show signs of,

Was that it, by any chance V

The very one,' cried Margaret, eagerly.
Have you got one, too, in your orchid-house ?
1 never knew that ; and we were so proud, poor
Jinks and I, of having beaten the grand manor-garden.'


'I am so Sony, but I am afraid it is your
flower !' explained poor Violet, blushing furiously.
' Captain Ramsay brought it. I mean he
had it in his buttonhole and took it out forme.'


Ah, well ! so long as you have it, that is all
I wanted,' was Margaret's kindly assurance, who
made haste to turn the conversation. Sweetly
thick-witted though she generally was, she
noticed Violet's distressed look, and caught sight,
too, of a peculiar inquiring glance shot from
under Mrs. O'Brien's dark lashes at the girl, who
was somewhat powerless on her sofa to evade
such scrutiny. Kindly fearful that she guessed
something of the state of affairs, yet, in reality,
with no idea that things had gone so far
between the young people, Mrs. Beaumont burst
into rapturous description of some new speckled
Hamburg's she had just added to her poultry-yard.
This, as she hoped, soon drove Kate
from the room.

No sooner was the latter outside, than a scowl
settled on her handsome face, and she clenched
her white hand as she went downstairs ,

feeling as if she had received an unexpected
blow.

You are trying to play fast and loose with
me, Master Jack. But, take care !' she thought,
vengefully to herself; utterly unmindful that it
was never Ramsay who proposed playing at the
perilous game of flirtation she had lured him to
take a hand in. She had blinded herself so
utterly with jealousy of poor Violet ; and the
wish to make a conquest of the handsome gunner
had grown so much stronger from his comparative
coldness ; that she herself knew not till
now — and hardly even now — to what an extent
her passion had grown. 'I am not an ill-tempered
woman, as a rule, 1 believe,' she went
on, justifying her wrath to her own conscience,
but this I will not bear quietly. I will not ! —
I must do something.'

Sick in heart with her own bitterness, Kate
Avent on blindly, as it were, to find her husband.
She felt she needed comfort, and he always
gave it ; he always took her part. Curious that
she should know she was treacherous to him in
her soul, and yet seek the kindness and protecting

tenderness of that large-hearted man without
a pang ! But she did so.

Rufus was in the gun-room, handling an oily
rag himself with a pucker on his broad forehead,
while examining the most delicate mechanism
of his gun.

Eh ? Is that you ? Don't speak to me for a
moment, there's a good girl !' he said absently,
as Kate came^up to him. Then, having satisfied
himself the gun was all right, he looked up
at his beautiful young wife, who stood by with
a sense of the folly of others, and the injustice
of things in the world's ordering, swelling within
her.

Why, little woman,' he ejaculated, in pitying
accents, seeing something was amiss and
putting one arm round her, ' what is the
matter V

Look here, Rufus,' answered Kate, in a half-choked
voice, with great angry eyes upturned
full of tragic meaning to him. ' There is some
work going on between Violet and this young
fellow, this Ramsay ; that won't do. It must be
stopped.'

Knfus stepped back, and looked earnestly at
her in amazement.

Why, I mean this, that he is making love to
her, whether he cares for her or not (1 don't
believe he does), and that she is so taken with
him, it's my belief unless you look out she'll
marry him — there !' gasped Kate, the words
coming out with a rush.

Rufus O'Brien gave a long whistle.

You don't mean it ? Come, Kitty, isn't this
your own imagination ?'

It is not. Don't be an idiot, Rufus. You
are such a gi'cat blind owl you never can see
anything unless you are shown it. What has kept
him at Littleforde all this time, mooning up here
every day following Violet about almost like a
dog ? — when there was no hunting, and he might
have been enjoying himself in a hundred other
places.'

Then he must be gone on her ; and I don't
wonder at that, she's such an awfully nice girl.
If he didn't care for her, the game would not be
worth the candle, for he knows she'll lose her
fortune if she marries him. You must be wrong.

my girl, about his not caring,' reflectively uttered
Rufus.

Then as Kate was silent, feeling the ground
cut from under her feet in part of her statement,
the good-natured giant added, with a
cheerful, consolatory air,

Well, I'm very sorry for Ramsay, but that is
his affair. And, as to Violet, we must hope she
does not mind much. She would never allow
herself to care for even as nice a fellow as
Ramsay — and he is a thundering good chap, and
the best-looking one I know into the bargain —
when she knows all along what she would
lose.'

'Nonsense,' scornfully returned Kate, with
flushing cheek. * No woman calculates when
she really begins to care about a man. Why, I
tell you, I believe she loves him, and if she
does she will throw everything to the wind for
his sake.' (In her heart the woman who spoke
felt madly she would do so — for Jack Ramsay's
sake.)

'And what Avould you have me do f slowly.

Do I — why, stop it ; in some way, any way.

Get him to leave on any pretext possible. We
must prevent it,'

O'Brien slowly shook his smooth red-haired
head.

I shall be awfully sorry if Violet does it.
But still — one never knows — she may be the
best judge of her own happiness. And [in any
case, my dear, remember it is no business of
ours.'

Kate stared at him as if disbelieving her
senses.

What !' she exclaimed, * you can stand there
calmly and say that ? No business of ours to see
her throw herself away, give up this place and
house for the sake of this new-comer ! And think
of us, please. If she does, where shall we be ?
We should have to turn out of Forde Manor
pretty quickly. Where would your hunting be
then — and shooting? What should I do
without V

O'Brien drew his wife's face close to his own,
so that she ceased abruptly, her last words
lost in the wide neighbourhood of his big
beard.

There ! there ! Httle woman. We have come
to the real root of the matter at last. What
should ice do ? — well, I'll tell you : we should
just have to do without all these good things,
aud make ourselves quite as happy as before weever
had them ; that's what we have got to do.
Come, think a moment, dear ; who are we that we
should wish to spoil Violet's happiness — or what
she thinks so — for the sake of our own selfishness
? You would not do it. I know you bettor,'
pressing, with one disengaged hand, her forehead
affectionately to his Hps. * There, give mea
kiss; and tell me you will be just as happy
with me again, as you were when we married
and had none of these borrowed riches.'

Kate lifted her head very slowly, and dutifully
obeyed.

'1 suppose you are right, Rufus,' she said,
heavily.

lie little guessed what thoughts were surging
under that white forehead his big hand so lovingly
caressed ; that his young wife silently
ground her teeth together and muttered in her
heart, * Fool— fool !'

Then, after a few unimportant remarks, she
contrived to get away, to be alone and indulge
her feelings. At the top of the wide, black oak
staircase she paused, and looked down at the
comfortable hall full of evidences of luxury,
looked along the wide and sunny, pleasant corridors,
hung with pictures and lined like any
drawing-room with easy sofas and cabinets of
china and curios.

To turn out of this into some dog-kennel,'
came her bitter thought. Suddenly, like a
lightning-flash, followed a suggestion surely
emanating from the tempting arch-fiend himself.
'Let the girl marry this man; then all
this will belong to Cyril Vyvian, and he loves
you /'

Kate grasped at the balusters and felt turning
giddy at the thought. Then she revolted at
it.

I could not do it !' she said, passionately, to
herself, when she somehow got into her own
room. ' I can't give him up like that ' (him
meant, alas ! Jack Ramsay). 'A man might do
such a deed for sake of mere money, and many

a woman might. But 1 am not avaricious ! I
could not.'

And, poor soul I she took some pride in
the thought, and even a mournful pleasure as
of conscious self-sacrifice.

Meanwhile, in Violet's room, Mrs. Beaumont
was saying good-bye.

My cousin Jack leaves me, you know, in a
day or two,' she cheerfully remarked. ' Just as
Avell, perhaps, for he must not spend too long
trying to catch a sunbeam, eh, dear ? 1 hope
you won't try to encourage him in it, will you,
Violet? It would be such a pity for you both,
you know.'

'I'll not try ' was all Violet could utter,

feeling her heart turn heavy as lead.

When alone, after that friendly admonition,
she wondered to herself why it should be such a
pity for Jack. What did Margaret mean ? Is
it generally such a pity for a young man fairly
well off, and with good prospects, as she knew
Ramsay's were, to marry a girl sufficiently wellborn
and nice-looking, with five hundred a-year ?
So she puzzled herself.

The truth was, Margaret had meant nothing
as to Jack ; the words, ' you both,' had been said
in pure nervousness.

CHAPTER XIII.
jack's suggestion.

It was the eve of the termination of Jack's long
leave, and he was one of a large party at Forde
Manor that had assembled to celebrate Violet's
recovery from the effects of her accident.

During the time that had elapsed since then,
he had had no opportunity of again speaking to
Violet anent the dearest wish of his heart ; for,
on the one or two occasions he had seen the
latter, Kate O'Brien had taken good care that
they should have no chance of indulging in a
Ute-astute conversation.

The dinner had been a very pleasant one, but
the hour was now late and the ladies gone to

VOL. I. R

bed. The men, however, were sitting round
the billiard-room, indulging in that sort of
conversation which mankind is wont to enjoy
when unfettered by the presence of the gentler
sex.

Hunting, shooting, the drama, &c., had all
been touched on when, a jwopos of some remark
about Lord Guisard (who, by-the-bye, was not
among them, having had a well-merited rebuke
given to him by Rufus the day before
for over-riding hounds), old Squire Bentley
observed :

Well, I think the best reproof 1 ever heard
administered to a man in the hunting-field was
by a very dear friend of mine, Lord Forrard,
a master of hounds who hunted his hounds himself.
We had run one fox into a largish covert,
and Forrardonon wanted to get him to break at
the far end over a nice bit of vale. Accordingly
he asked all the field to stand still, as he was
doing himself. Hounds kept rattling their fox
round and round the covert, but break he would
not ; so Forrardonon cantered down to the bottom
of the wood and there found an old general, byname

Bouncer (celebrated for never riding a
yard to hounds, and heading more foxes than
anyone in the Hunt), sitting in the middle of a
ride hallooing like mad ! *' He's gone back, my
lord," cried the excited warrior, pointing in the
direction where he had viewed the fox.

'" Blank— blank — blank," came a volley of
oaths from Forrardonon's lips, "how the ]blank
can any fox break with your ugly mug staring
him in the face ?" and away he galloped, leaving
the pompous man of war nearly choking
and purple with rage I Well, we eventually
got our fox away, and, after a bit of a gallop,
hounds threw up in a fallow field. Forrardonon
sat on his horse watching them make their cast,
and, by Jove, it was a treat to see the way his
hounds swung themselves round as they spread
and tried to recover the line,' added the old
man, enthusiastically. ' All the field were in a
chester behind liii when up l)ustk'(l the general
and said, " I've hunted f )r forty years, my lord,
and never, no, never, have I had to submit to such
language as you have chosen to address to me
to-day." Forrardonon moved not a muscle, and

h2

never took his eyes off the pack as he replied
very quietly, " Haven't you ? really ! Yon quite
surprise me! Hic ! to Ladybird, hic together,"
as an old white bitch hit the line. There was
a roar of laughter as we all galloped off and
left the general utterly unbounded and
speechless with rage. 1 don't think I ever saw
a man so efficiently and quietly shut up in my
life,' chuckled the squire.

Yes, it was neat certainly,' replied Jack,
and more effective than the liberal dose of
damson pie,' your fiend had favoured the
general with previously. I certainly don't
approve of bad language, though it is difficult
to prevent oneself from using it occasionally,
and if any man has provocation it is an M.F.H.
when he sees hounds overridden, and foxes
headed ; but talking of good stories,' he added,
have any of you heard the story of the Three
Liars? 1 heard it in town the other day, and
it is too good to keep to oneself, if any of you
don't know it.'

A chorus of ' No, go on — let us have it,' was
the reply to this question, and his audience

having lit fresh cigars, and replenished sundry
long tumblers with various potions, Jack
began :

Three men, all noted exaggerates of the
truth, whom we will call A., B., and C, met in a
railway-carriage, and began talking about the
sport they had enjoyed. After some desultory
conversation, A. said,

" 1 think, of the many seasons' sport I
have enjoyed, I never had such a good
one as this last ; I never missed a single shot,
and accounted for every cartridge I fired away !
nay — I did more — for somehow by practice I
seemed only to have to look at game and to kill
it ! You may hardly credit me, but, as an
instance that I find it impossible to miss, I will
tell you of an incident that occurred the other
day. I was staying in a country-house, and one
Sunday we were all walking to church across
the park, when a brace of partridges rose some
fifty yards from me. Instinctively, I put my
walking-stick to my shoulder, and covered
them, and would you believe me they both
fell dead; dead as door-nails!"

'"I can quite believe it," returned B., "fora
somewhat similar, though even more extraordinary
instance of the death-dealing power
that attaches itself to any implement handled
by a really good shot, happened to me. I, like
you, have not missed a single shot during the
last season, and killed an animal when my life
was in danger under very peculiar circumstances.
I was staying in Ireland, and one somewhat
showery day Alas taking a short cut to
the village post-office to send off a telegram.
I had an umbrella with me which, however, was
closed in the intervals between the showers.
On entering a field in which some Kerry cattle
were pastured, one vicious-looking cow, after
glaring at me and shaking her head in a
threatening manner, came straight at me I In
self-defence I opened my umbrella when she
was very near me. That saved my life, for,
with a wild snort of pain and rage, she turned
tail, fleio hvo Indeed yards, tottered, and fell
dead'

A roar of laughter greeted this last story, and
Rufus, exclaimed.

Bead, tluit is a good one. 1 know ji good
deal of Kerry, and its cattle, but the "flew two
hundred yards, towered, and fell dead," certainly
is delicious;' and he went into fits of
laughter.

Well,' resumed Jack, * C. was not to be
beaten ; so here is his wonderful adventure.

" I was staying up in Suthcrlandshirc with

Lord , and one night the conversation

turned on the possibility of killing a stag, five
brace of grouse, and a salmon all on the same
day. I professed myself equal to the task, but
everyone ridiculed me. Being considerably
nettled at this imputation on my sporting-prowess,
I had taken sundry bets on the subject
amounting to a considerable sum. Day after
day I attempted the task, but in vain. One
day I would get a stag and a salmon, and some
three brace of grouse, but toil how I might I
could not /?;<d the other two brace to complete
the bag ; needless to say if I had only seen them
I was certain of whining, for I, like both of you,
never missed a shot. Another day I would get
the stag and the grouse, but could not rise a

fish. Another I would get the salmon and the
grouse, but in vain I searched every likely
corrie and hill-side for a stag. Hinds I would
see plenty of, but no stag. At length on the
last day of my stay I had given up the attempt
in despair, and in no very enviable frame of
mind had gone out for a solitary ramble along
with my rifle towards a loch in the hills, out of
which the salmon river debouched. I was
walking carelessly along thinking how very inconvenient
it would be for me to pay all my
bets, Avhen grazing close to the edge of the
loch, quite unconscious of danger, I saw a
magnificent stag. To one of such experience
as myself, stalking him was a matter of no great
difficulty. I got within eighty yards, aimed at
his shoulder, and fired my right barrel. Of
course he fell over dead ; but, as I fired, a
gleam of silver shooting up from the placid
waters of the loch some hundred yards out
caught my eye; quick as thought I turned 
and fired my left barrel at it, and the
next moment, to my intense satisfaction, saw a
noble salmon floating dead upon the water. I
confess I was so taken aback by having performed

such au unprecedented feat as killing a
stag and a salmon right and left, that I plumped
down in the heather. Would you believe me,
gentlemen, as 1 did so, an old hen grouse
fluttered up at my feet, and, feeling I was sitting
on something warm and soft, I shifted
my position, and found I had sat down on and
killed a brood of ten fine young grouse I and so
won my bet. You can fancy with what
astonishment I was greeted at the Lodge when
I returned laden with the stag head, salmon,
and grouse, and I need hardly say I was glad
to lay them all down and indulge in a good
long drink." '

After this Munchausen-like feat had been
well laughed over. Jack resumed.

I have a proposition to make. Here have
we been talking and telling stories about improbabilities
and impossibilities, suppose we
go in for some of the possibilities and realities
of sport ? Now, what I am going to suggest
is this : as soon as the season is over, let
us get up a ' point to point ' race ; one for members
of the Hunt, and the other for the
farmers. I'll enter a horse and ride myself, and

give a cup to be run for by the farmers. What
say you alle

Needless to say in such a sporting community
the proposal was cordially assented to, and the
party there and then got out paper, pen, and
ink, and resolved themselves into a committee
to draw up the conditions of the races. Rufus
was voted to the chair.

Now,' said he, ' as we are to have two races,
one for members of the Hunt, the other for
farmers and members of the yeomanry residing
within the limits of the Hunt, I would propose
that for both races the distance should be four
miles ; the course to be unfledged ; no assistance
to be given to the competitors. The distance
from point to point to be got over as the riders
please, provided they do not go a hundred
yards along a road, or through a gate. To be
ridden in hunting-costume. Weights thirteen
stone each. Entrance five sovereigns. Post
entries.'

Yes,' replied Jack, ' I think that will do, only
I would suggest that the weights be divided
into two classes, welters and light-weights.

Some men — Guisarcl, for instance — could not
ride the weight, so suppose we say 
to carry fourteen stone, and light-weights
twelve stone seven pounds. 1 think
that would be fairer.'

A very good idea,' returned Rufus, ' and I'm
dashed if I don't have a cut in myself for the
welters, though 1 shall have to declare a few
pounds overweight. And I tell you what, Til
get J\Iiss Vyvian to give a cup to whoever is
first past the post in both classes. I'm sure
she would be delighted.'

But how is the course to be decided V
asked one of the party.

0, of course, everything must be regularly
drawn up and settled; two people — who are
not riding — must pick out the points, which
will not be known until the horses go down
to start. "We will meet at some place or other ;
see the weights are all right, and then perhaps
have to go a mile or two away to run the race.'

But how about the weights for the farmers'
race ?' questioned Jack. * I think it would be
better to have the weights for this all equal ;

for there are no very heavy men likely to
enter. Suppose we say twelve stone seven
pounds for them.'

Very fair,' assented Rufiis ; * and I think, now
we have settled the rough outline, we should
call a meeting of the Hunt, to appoint a committee
and settle details. I think it will be
great fun, and a capital wind-up to the season.
We ought certainly to get eight or ten entries
for each race.'

'I declare, I feel quite keen about it, and
only Lavish I was young enough to ride,' said
Squire Bentley, rubbing his hands with glee,
and his jolly old face beaming with delight,
at the prospect of seeing once more an old-fashioned
bit of sport, such as he remembered
in the days of his youth, before the era of
flagged courses and gate-money meetings set in.

And so, the main preliminaries being settled,
the party broke up.

As Jack Ramsay walked home, his thoughts
were divided between a wish that he had had
an opportunity of speaking to Violet and knowing
his fate, and thoughts of the coming race.

Which of his horses should he ride ? — Brenda or
Havloquiu ? The former, he knew, was the faster,
but then the latter was the safer fencer ; and,
though the mare certainly was a brilliant performer,
yet in a race that depended more on
cleverness and being able at a pinch to negotiate
an awkward place, he thought perhaps
Harlequin might have the best chance. Turning
these matters over in his mind, as he walked
back in the clear starlight night to Littleforde,
he came to the conclusion that he would do
his best to get both horses fit and in condition
by the time the race was to come off, which
would be in three weeks' time — not long, certainly,
for thorough preparation, but quite long
enough, considering they were both in thorough
hunting condition ; and then, at the last moment,
decide which he should ride.

That night his rest was troubled by dreams
of seeing Lord Guisard sailing in an easy winner,
and claiming Violet as his bride (for she
was to be the prize, like the Queen of Beauty
in tournaments of old), whilst Harlequin stuck
his feet into the ground, and resolutely refused

to budge an inch ! The next morning, ere
Jack departed, he told Margaret Beaumont of
the proposed meeting ; and she extracted (easily
enough) a promise from him that he would
come and stay with her for the event. Yet she
sighed, adding to herself, as he drove off, ' I
wonder how all this will end. These two are
getting nearer and nearer the brink each day.'

CHAPTER XIV.

THE POINT TO POINT RACE.

All the conditions of the Point to Point Race
Avt'i-e settled satisfactorily. Violet, when the
question had been mooted, entered con andre
into the proposal, and promised a handsome
silver cup to whosoever should be first in the
two classes combined. The other conditions of
the race were pretty much as had been suggested
originally, except that the entrance was
to be three sovereigns each. Jack had given
a cup, to be run for by the farmers, and to this
old Squire Bentleyhad added a five-pound note
for the second, and a silver-mounted hunting-whip
to the third. The event had caused considerable

excitement in the neighbourhood, and
on the day of the race a crowd of carriages,
horsemen, and foot-people was seen wending its
way to Thornton Cross Roads, the appointed
place of meeting. The race had filled welland
the ' correct card ' showed the following
entries :

Welter Weights, 14:st. each.

1. Mr. O'Brien's br. mare Kate Owner

2. Mr. Blatherwick's ch. g. Solomon, Capt. Barker

3. Lord Guisard's br. g. Briggs Owner

4. Colonel Fitzroy's bay mare Flora . . . Owner

5. Mr. Brook's g. mare Gardenia . Owner

Light Weights, Vast. each.

t). Miss Vyvian'sg.g. Moorcock. . . Mr.Yyvian

7. Major Toiling's bay mare Firefly . . . Owner

8. Capt. Ramsay's bay g. Harlequin . . . Owner

9. Mr. Waldron's ch. mare Chance . . . Owner

10. Mr. Leake's bl. g. Budmash . . Capt. Forbes

11. Mr. Churchill's bay g. Paddy Owner

12. Mr.Burn's g.mare Moonshine . . Mr. Johnson

Altogether a very respectable entry. It had
further been decided that, in order to distinguish
the two classes, the welters were to ride in black
coats, and the light-weights in red.

Violet had, after all, bought the grey that
had brought her to such grief, and which she
had named Moorcock ; and Jack, who had taken
him back with him, had got the horse into a
bit of condition and schooled him well. He
had offered to give up entering his own horse
in the race in order to steer Violet's, but to this
proposal she would not listen for a moment,
declaring she only entered the horse to fill up
the race, and that she should back Harlequin
for all the gloves she could afford to lose.
Besides, her cousin had previously obtained her
promise to give him the mount, and, with all
his love for Violet, Jack was too keen a sportsman
not to prefer riding his own horse, and
such an old and tried favourite as Harlequin, to
that of anyone else ; so both parties were satisfied,
and he was all the more pleased when
Violet announced her intention to back this
mount. He had with some difficulty obtained

VOL. I. S

three days' leave, and had run down on the
morning of the race to Littleforde.

It was one of those treacherous days in the
spring of the year for which the EnghshcHmate
is noted, breaking fair and bright ; but towards
noon the glass fell, heavy clouds came rolling
up, and the wind had a decided touch of east
in it that found its insidious way through the
thickest of wraps and overcoats.

Three o'clock was the hour fixed for the meet
at Thornton Cross Roads, and at that time a
group of sheeted and hooded horses might have
been seen walking about in an adjacent field.
The line which had been previously selected by
old Squire Bentley had been kept a profound
secret, and no one had an inkling as to what the
course was to be. Two tents were pitched in
the field ; one of these was reserved as a place
for the competitors to dress and weigh in,
whilst in the other an enterprising, publican
was driving a roaring trade in alcoholic and hot
drinks.

A few moments before three Violet and Kate
drove up enveloped in furs, and, getting out of

their carriage, walked up to a slight eminence
pointed out to them by the old squire. This
was immediately the signal for a rush to be
made for the spot by the assembled multitude.
The day which up to this had been changeable
now evinced signs of a decided alteration for
the worst. Biting blasts of wind came sweeping
over the uplands, mingled with sheets of
sleet, hail, and rain, in a way that made men
turn up their coat-collars and horses curl up
their backs and tuck in their tails. At length,
after the inevitable deUx}^ which invariably takes
place on all such occasions, Mr. Bentley got his
forces marshalled, and with a ' Now, gentlemen,
follow me,' led the way. After about a mile's
trot, he ascended a slight rise in the ground,
and then thus addressed them :

You know the conditions of the race, gentlemen
; so all I have to do is to point out trio
course to you. I shall start you from the field
below this. You will then make your way as
best you can to Clockiugton church-tower out
there,' pointing in the direction where a square
grey tower rose out from amid a clump of big

• s2

elms ; ' this you will round, leaving it on your
left, and then shape your course to that flag
yonder ; this you will also leave on your left,
and from thence you have a straight course to
the clump of fir-trees on the hill, at the base
of which is the winning-post. Do you all
understand quite clearly ?'

One or two of the competitors, it seemed,
Avere not quite clear on the subject of the
course ; but at last all was explained to their
satisfaction, and in a blinding storm of sleet
and rain they followed the old squire to the
field below, from which he dispatched them, to
a capital start, on their cross-country journey.

Jack had on a former occasion (a memorable
one to him) traversed part of the country over
which the line lay — viz., on the day when he
and Violet had had such a good run, at the
termination of which they had vowed eternal
friendship — the friendship that had now, on his
side at least, he knew, merged into love. And
he had also a very vivid recollection of a certain
awkward ' boyle ' that lay in the line, that had
proved a stopper to all save Violet and himself.

Besides being possessed of those two very
necessary adjuncts for getting across country
safely and well — viz., determination and a quick
eye, Ramsay knew, or rather guessed, that this
gode ' would have to be encountered after
rounding Clockington church, and so determined
to get a good start.

For the first two fields, therefore, he led,
closely followed by the others, over a couple of
easy-flying fences ; and then a really formidable
obstacle was encountered, for nearly five feet
of new, stint, solid timber frowned defiance at
them. All instinctively turned aside to seek
some easier outlet from the field. No, not all !
Jack's mind was made up in an instant. If he
jumped this fence safely he would gain a
decided lead, and be able to husband Harlequin's
strength. It was a case of neck or nothing
— win or lose, and he determined to
chance it, knowing that timber was Harlequin's
strong point.

As he pulled him almost into a trot. Lord
Guisard, who was just behind, shouted out,

Fifty you don't clear it.'

Done !' called back Jack over his shonlclor,
adding, in mocking tones, ' surely you are not
afraid to follow me, my lord I'

Measuring his distance to a yard, good
little Harlequin trotted up to it, then, rearing
nearly bolt upright, poised himself for an instant,
and bucked over clean and clear. As he
landed Jack turned in his saddle, and saw Lord
Guisard glowering at him in speechless rage.

Come on,' he called, tauntingly ; ' if my little
pony can do it, surely your three hundred
guineas' worth can ;' and, waiting no more, he
galloped on.

Lord Guisard was furious. An oath rose to
his lips, and he turned his horse, for he was no
coward, whatever other faults he might possess
; besides, he knew Violet must be an
amused spectator of the scene. Down he came
at the fence forty miles an hour, giving the fine
hunter he rode a couple of vicious digs with
the spur as he neared it. This threw the animal
out of his stride, and he wisely declined.
Again and again was he brought at the timber,
but with a like result ; at last, maddened from

pain and fright, the horse reared up, and fell
back, deposited his lordship in a nice slushy
puddle, luckily, however, unhurt. Briggs was
up in an instant and galloped off, leaving tho
infuriated peer, in no very enviable frame of
mind, to pursue the charming occupation of
running after his horse in wet and sodden
garments.

In the meantime, Jack had been going
steadily on ; Harlequin doing everything
he was asked to perfection. When they
reached Clockington Tower, Ramsay had a
clear lead of three fields, and his red coat acted
as a beacon to the other competitors, of which
only some five had the ghost of a chance. A
big double had disposed of Solomon and Bud-mash,
whilst Gardenia, Chance, and Moonshine
were hopelessly outpaced. On turning for
home Jack took a pull at Harlequin and let the
other's up — by degrees.

A brook now confronted them, not a very
formidable one, truly, but still one that many
men would turn away from. Some twelve feet
of open water with a bad take-off is not tho

most inviting sort of fence ; and water always
has a deterrent effect upon human as well as
equine nerves, though, given a horse that is a
really good water-jumper, there is no more
charming sensation than being carried safely-over,
whilst with pleasure you note your
friends not so fortunately mounted either declining
the venture or going plop into the stream !
As they entered the field through which the
brook meandered, its tortuous course plainly
marked out by a line of pollard willows, Cyril
Vyvian, anxious to show off, assumed the lead ;
but as he did so Jack said kindly to him,

Let me give you a lead, Vyvian; Moorcock
has never cared much for water since the day
he and his mistress came to grief, but he'll follow
Harlequin anywhere.'

Thanks, old man, I'll follow your advice,' was
the reply, as Cyril pulled back.

And now the six put on the pace, and came
thundering down at the brook. Jack leading by
some three lengths, with Cyril on his right, and
Rufus on his left, the others scattered on either
side. Harlequin swings over in his stride,

describing,' as the late mr. ]cronies-Davenport
has it, * an entrancing parabola in the air.'
Moorcock has gained confidence, and also
acquits himself well : but Eufus, poor Eufus,
comes spurring along, shouting to his mare,
Come up, ye jade, for the honour of old Ireland,
we'll show them the ' the word ' trick '

being lost under water as the bank gives way
and they disappear with a splash ! Paddy gets
over with a peck and a scramble, whilst
Flora, rushing at it with her head in the
air, overspreads herself and rolls over, though
her owner is up and in the saddle in an instant.
Firefly's chances are here extinguished, for,
stopping dead short, she shoots her rider over
her head into the brook, to join Rufus in his
aquatic sports. And so the four gallop on.
Moorcock now leading, with Paddy lying next,
Harlequin third, and, some ten lengths behind,
Flora bringing up the rear.

This order they maintain for the next few
fields till they round the flag. They are now
getting near the ' boyle,' and Jack's quick eye
takes in the surrounding objects at a glance.

Yes, there is the lane where they checked by
the cottage ; and out of which Violet, Kate
O'Brien, Pile, and himself had left the rest of
the field on that memorable day, so he pulls
back and lies last. Cyril evidently knows the
country, and seems aware of the existence of
the * boyle,' for he bears away to the right, followed
by all save Jack, who keeps straight on.
As Ramsay neared the spot, he wondered if the
rail-protected gap had been repaired. If it had
been, he was done for ; but luck always attends
the bold, for, in jumping into the field, he saw
the rails broken and lying much as he had left
them, with only a thorny bush or two stuffed
into their place. Galloping on, sensible old
Harlequin seemed to remember the spot, and,
pushing his way through the thorns, negotiated
the place to perfection. As he gained the
opposite bank Jack could see no signs of any of
his opponents, but soon they hove in sight.
They had now performed about three-fourths
of the journey, and two sticky, ploughed fields
had to be traversed in the last mile. These
Jack remembered, and pulled Harlequin into a

trot as he landed in the first, jogging along a
wet furrow. The fence out of this field was an
easy one, but that ont of the second was a truly
formidable double.

As he neared it, Jack hummed to himself, in
the words of the immortal bard of the chase,
poor \Vhyte-Melville :

They have pleached it strong, they have dug it wide,
They have turned the baulk with the plough ;
The hoi-se that can cover the vrholo in his stride,
Is cheap at a thousand, I vow,'

adding, as he rose in his stirrups and patted
Harlequin's neck :

Yon are worth more than a thousand to me,
old man ; but I'm not going to ask you to cover
it in your stride, though I know you'd try if I
wanted you to.'

The fence was not a very high double ; still
it was naiTow on the top, affording but little
foothold, and the old thorn and hazel fence that
had grown on it for full twenty years, untouched
and untrained, had been cut and laid in stiff and
unbreakable binders. The ditches — for there were
two, both wide and dee[) — had been dug out and

the mud piled on to the ' plush hers ;' in fact, it was
about as awkward and treacherous a fence as
could well be imagined. In the meantime, the
other three riders had been brought up by a line
of wire fencing that had lately been erected,
and so had to diverge from their line and enter
the ploughed field in which Jack was taking matters
so easily. As Cyril caught sight of him he
put on the pace, and, galloping diagonally across
the plough-furrows, came fast at the fence just
as Harlequin cantered up to it, and, quickening
his pace in the last few strides, made his spring,
kicked back, and landed safely in the next
field.

'Don't come so fast,' shouted Jack-to Cyril,
but the warning was unheeded.

Moorcock's want of condition was beginning
to tell, and, though he did his best, it was asking
too much of a distressed horse to go fast at
such a fence out of deep ground ; added to
which, the awkward take-off considerably increased
the chance of failure. He floundered onto
the top, and then the narrow bank and
treacherous slimy mud gave way, and, with a

groan, he subsided backwards into the ditch as
Paddy's rider, following Jack's tactics, landed
safely lower down, and Flora, rushing fall tilt
up the furrow in Jack's wake, flew the whole
thing.

The issue now lay between Harlequin, Flora,
and Paddy. The latter belonged to a young
fellow in the regiment quartered at Slush-borough
Barracks. He was a nice lad, one of
Jack's friends, and a favourite with the Marsh-wood
Yale Hunt. Only two fields intervened
before the winning-post was reached, and the
shouts of the spectators already rang in their
ears. Jack was still leading, and as he felt
Harlequin sailing along, going well within himself,
he grew pretty confident of winning the
light-weight race ; but with Flora, who was a
big, powerful mare, and evidently full of running,
Mng close up, he felt less sure of winning
Violet's cup — the one thing he valued more
than anything else. Paddy, he knew, he had
the legs of, and, bar accidents, he felt sure he
could beat him. Io had noticed the way Flora
rushed her fences, and, brilliant fencer as she

undoubtedly was, ho fervently hoped this fault
might yet bring her to grief.

Nor was Jack wrong in his surmise, for at
the last fence but one from home — a stiff highest
bank, with a bramble-covered ditch on the
landing-side — the mare again overturned herself,
and came down what is vulgarly termed a
buster.' This left Jack still With the lead,
some twenty lengths ahead of Paddy, on
whom, good honest horse though he was, the
pace was beginning to tell. The last fence of
all was a very trappy one — a ditch on the take-off
side, and an up-jump on to a bramble and
thorn-covered bank, which was thickly undermined
with rabbit-holes. Harlequin jumped
it to perfection, but, alas ! as he landed he put
his foot in a rabbit-hole and rolled over heavily,
his bridle coming off in the fall. Jack, however,
by constant practice had learnt to fall clear of
his horse and retain hold of his reins ; and as
Harlequin rose, with the one rein entangled
round a fore-foot, he jumped on his back, and,
catching up the remaining rein, set him going
just as Paddy landed safely. And now a most

exciting finish took place up the two hundred
yards that remained. The run-in was up-hill,
and the two were pretty evenly handicapped.
Jack's only means of guiding* Harlequin was
with whip and leg-pressure, the bit being
against his horse's chest ; whilst Paddy's rider
had his horse's beaten condition to contend
with. Gamely the two struggled on locked
together, till at last, within a fcAv yards of the
winning waggon, Jack gave Harlequin two
sharp digs With the spur, and, shouting to him
at the same time that Paddy swerved from
sheer exhaustion, landed a winner by justa
length.

Loud were the shouts that hailed his success,
and many were the cries of ' Well done, captain
I' from some scores of west-country yeoman
throats as he pulled up preparatory to weighing
out (for Jack during his stay had by his genial
manner and fearless riding become a warm
favourite amongst the farmers). This performance
concluded, and his weight being pronounced
* all right!' by the temporary clerk of
the scales, Violet came up, her face beaming

with delight and excitement. As she patted
Harlequin's neck, and said, in a low tone, * Well
done, both of you !' Jack felt a thrill of pleasurable
pride shoot through him such as he had
never known before.

That evening, at a large dinner-party which
Violet gave in honour of the event, she presented
her silver cup to Jack, after making him
a neat little speech, in which becoming allusion
was made to Harlequin's prowess, and Ramsay's
talent as a jockey. The cup being filled with
champagne was, at Jack's special request,
christened by Violet taking the first sip out of
it ; then it was passed round among the assembled
guests, who one and all drank the victor's
health with ' a three times three and one cheer
more,' in such a ringing chorus that made the
old rafters of Forde Manor shake again, and
startled the owls who haunted its ivy-clad
walls.

CHAPTER XV.

'CAN YOU ANSWER ME ONE QUESTION?'

Jack Ramsay's brief visit was almost over.
The following day he must get back to Aldershot
and exchange freedom and country life,
with the still greater delight of being daily in
Violet Vyvian's society, for barracks and the
monotonous routine of duty.

If ho grumbled in his heart at fate, some one
else was sighing in hers. How gladly Violet
would have been in Mrs. Beaumont's shoes, if
only she might see to the proper packing of
Ramsay's big portmanteau, and have the sorrowful
pleasure of handling some of his things and
helping him a little. A most silly frame of
VOL. I. ^'

mind ! Kate O'Brien, for instance, never gave
herself the least chance of a headache by stooping
over Knfus' shirts, when that happy-unlucky
husband of hers was away from the
tender care of the Forde footmen ; and he
stuffed them in ' anyhow.'

Four o'clock on a mild April afternoon. Violet
Vyvian is stealing — no other word expresses
her shy step and tremulous feeling — through
her own woods, where stray touches of Spring's
passing feet might already be seen in golden
patches of celandine stars underfoot, and some
faintly-green buds among the brushwood.

What does she here ? An heiress, her own
mistress, with none to say her nay ; why should
she look timidly around ? All the same, in spite
of delicious hopes, Violet was thrilled with
maiden misgivings and shamefacedness at the
consciousness that, for the first time in her life,
she was bound on a tryst to meet her lover.
The very trees seemed to cry out reproachfully,
What ! could you leave us for this stranger ?
You are taking a rash step ; all you see around
for miles is yours — yours. Will you give it all

lip for love of hiiu V At the thought, tho gifts
heart throbbed high, a happy smile came on lier
lips and lingered,

All ! — I will give it all up for his sake,' she
repeated firmly, within herself, as she had done
lately many times.

Still, she knew many people would think her
fooKsh, even mad. And Kate O'Brien above all I
Yiolet had an uneasy feeling that she did riot
want to meet Kate till it was all settled, and
therefore had consented to this stolen interview.
Perhaps it was from an idea of friendship,
perhaps mere feminine jealousy, that Kate had
so often thwarted Ramsay's attempts to have
any private conversation with Yiolet lately.
But the fact was evident.

On the preceding evening Ramsay had found
an opportunity to say quite low, s(j that only
she could liar,

I am going away the day after tomorrow.'

I know,' Violet briefly answered.

'Let me have one last chance of meeting
you ; will you ?' the young man went on, forgetting
his old timidity and pressing his wish

t2

eagerly, almost bluntly. ' Will you be down
at the old sundial where the three rides meet
^by the pine-wood — about five o'clock, and
come by yourself V

Then, seeing Violet paused a moment or so
before replying, he urged with a passionate
thrill in his voice,

You knoiv there is never a chance of speaking
alone with you when I come up to your
house. Rufus is always about — and Mrs.
O'Brien. The mistress of Forde Manor is
always being wanted by everyone — may not a
friend want you too ? I have never yet asked
many favours of you, have 1 ? You might
surely grant me this much for the last time.'

I will come,' Violet had breathed back, very
low. And here she was.

Five o'clock already, as she consulted her
tiny gold hunting-watch. She was late, and
there was still a fairly long stretch of grassy
cross-ride through the oak-trees to be traversed
before one came near the firs. Violet looked
round anxiously ; then, reflecting that Jack was
not likely to come away from the meeting-place,

she began to run lightly and fast down
the side of the ride, startling the rabbits that
were playing on the sunlit, open sward, and
sending them scuttling away into the bracken.
At the far end the girl stopped, slightly panting ;
then, assuming a leisurely air out of keeping
with the quickened beating of her heart, went
forward sedately down another ride. The pine-trees
began here ; at the end could be seen a
glimpse of the open triangular space where the
sundial stood. But Ramsay was not in sight as
yet.

Violet came very slowly indeed, with maidenly
reserve, into the open. No Jack was by the old
sundial, that leant crooked among the long grass ;
nor yet was he in sight down any ride. No figure
could she descry under the pine-trees around,
or where the withered bracken-stalks sparsely
covered an open knoll. Too soon ! Miss Vyvian
bit her lip and felt hurt with herself. How
stupid to have run ! No doubt he would come
in less than three minutes, but she would have
preferred not being first.

Stepping back under the shelter of a near

pine-tree, Violet stood still to wait. She breathed
in with enjoyment, as always, the resinous scent
from the pine-branches, liked to feel the dry
ground carpeted with dead fir-needles under
her feet. Still that did not blind her to the fact
that five, ten minutes had passed, as she several
times consulted her watch.

A quarter-of-an-hour ! This was strange,
neglectful of Jack. Violet felt hurt with
him now. Twenty minutes; five-and-twenty !
Something must have happened ; he had been
detained ; what could be wrong? Half-an-hour
Violet could bear the suspense no longer. It
was cruel of Jack, almost an insult. At any
rate, she would not endure such slighting
conduct another instant ; she should go back
home.

But Violet had only turned a few yards up
the homeward ride with determined face, when
Jack emerged in hot haste from among the
trees on the further side of the ride, a little way
behind, and hastened after her.

Here I am — at last. Forgive me ; but where
are you going V

I am going home, Captain Ramsay. I have
an appointment with the bailie for six o'clock,
and I never like to keep anyone waiting.'

Don't be so gently severe. Why won't you
look at me ? Do you think for a moment I
willingly kept you waiting V

Violet raised her glance and saw that Jack
looked heated; his breath was hurried, and
moisture stood on his brow.

I could not get away sooner,' went on
Ramsay, excusing himself with a dogged earnestness
there was no mistaking. 'I was
stopped, first of all, when I was leaving Little-force
by Margaret, who wanted my advice
about something in the stables. And then, on
my way here, I happened to come across somebody
else; and so it went on. I have been
running like a hare through the wood, and been
caught by every bramble-bush in your coverts,
I believe.'

'And who was the somebody else?' asked
Violet, in a still voice.

It seemed to her — she could not have told
why — that Jack was not speaking in his usual

open manner ; that he was keeping something
back.

0— only Mrs. O'Brien.'

What ! Kate ? Then of course I can quite
understand you could not tear yourself away
only to see me, Captain Ramsay. She is not
only much handsomer, but a much more agreeable
companion than I am. We are great
friends, as you know ; and I am never jealous.'

Nevertheless, for the first time in her life,
Violet felt a surge of bitter jealousy rise up, as
if it would choke her.

/ do not think her a more agreeable companion.
She cannot equal you in looks, in my
eyes — no woman can !'

Jack looked steadfastly in the dove-like, clear
eyes that met his. There was such emphasis in
his low tone that, if he did not mean what he
said, he must have been one of the greatest
deceivers ever created. A warm, girlish flush,
and a quick, feminine retort came in reply.

Then why did you not leave her half-an-hour
ago ? Kate would not detain you, I should
think, if you had pleaded any excuse. I know

/ should not,' with a charming toss of her small,
wavy, brown-haired head.

Jack bit his hp.

It was not easy to get away And I
do not suppose you wished her to Imo that
we were going to meet, and where.'

Then bis brow darkened, and he suddenly
shut his mouth tight as a trap. There was a
moment's silence. Violet could not gainsay
him, but knew not what objections she could
rightly make next. So they only looked at
each other.

I am very sorry ; but I really could not help
it, on my honour,' murmured Jack now, quite
low, though there were only rabbits or a stray
squirrel to hear him.

His gi'ey eyes pleaded even more eloquently
than his words. Few women could have withstood
the dangerous proximity of that handsome,
kindly face ; a lover in a hundred, one to
be truly proud of. Violet's anger had already
died away. She felt an influence creeping over
her irresistibly that would have made her follow
this man to the world's end. Jack somehow

divined his power. He was intoxicated by the
knowledge that his love of this woman — who
was dear to him above all the world — had won
the longed-for reward that was trembling on
her lips.

Come here, under this tree, a little — will you,
dear V said Jack, drawing her arm through his
own very gently.

And so he led her, she following his persuasive
touch, attracted by the all-powerful magnet
of love, under the wide-spread branches of a
great pine that stood on one side of the ride.
And then ?

Well, what happened then it would be hard
to say. How does fire break out first in compressed
combustible materials, by self-ignition ?
Just as the first spark bursts into flame after
smouldering, so these two — who had long guessed
their mutual passion — nov uttered it.

For a few minutes there was not much said
that was very consecutive in speech, albeit intelligible
enough, despite broken words, by the
two persons in this dialogue. Then, after a
pause of ecstasy. Jack found himself exclaiming :

'Do you know, Violet, I feel ashamed of
looking yon in the face. Think of your position,
my darling, and of mine. Could you really
care more for me than for your fortune, and old

home, and ' (with a short, happy laugh)

'for being the only lady M.F.H. 1 know of in
England V

1 care far, far more,' came the woman's
quick, low answer, uttered from the depths of
her soul. ' Oh ! what would my house be tome,
if the one being whom I need to live with,
to see, and hear were gone away for every
Do you think I would have much heart to ride
to hounds then? What real happiness would
my fortune bring me, if I never had anyone
to share it with?'

Her look, as she said so, was so guileless, so
open and trusting, that it gave Jack almost an
awe before this pure, young woman-soul, who
thus offered to give up so much of this world's
gear for sake of just — himself. He felt afraid I

Dear, I believe I ought never to have asked
such a sacrifice from you. It might, perhaps,
have been better for you if 1 had gone away

from Forde Manor weeks ago, and never said a
word. I am not worthy of you ; I am far from
being as good as you think me he said, in a

rather choked voice. ' But still ' Jack

meant to say that, if Kfe-long devotion, if the
truest gratitude ever man owed woman would
replace what she lost through him, then that
should be hers. But he did not say so, for a
sudden barking startled them both. They had
been standing so close together under the wide-spreading
tree, while the other pine-trees screened
them on three sides, looking in each other's
eyes, with Jack's arm round the girl's supple
waist, that neither had given any attention as
to who might be coming down the grassy ride.
But Crab, Violet's pet terrier, who had followed
her as usual, had been snuffling back and forward
for the last few minutes between the open
award and the dead bracken-stalks under the
trees in an agitated manner. And now, seeing
his young mistress was still engrossed, as a
faithful sentinel, he gave warning by some
^ yap-yaps.'

There was the Reverend John Wood, alias

Jack, the Parson, Avalkiug quietly clown the
ride, aud looking, with desperate interest, at
the trees on the further side. Had he seen
them. Of course he had ; neither could doubt
it! But still, his present air of not having* seen
being next best, the young couple, who felt
terribly foolish all at once, were hesitating, when
out dashed Crab recklessly, and began a noisy
war-dance round the intruder's legs. It was
impossible to pretend to overlook that.

Violet called Crab in a tone of the most
dignified rebuke she could summon ; Jack threw
in his remonstrances to the terrier with a somewhat
more grumpy voice. And Mr. Wood, who
was as good a fellow as ever breathed, turned
reluctantly to meet both lovers, who issued from
under the pine-tree with as nonchalant an air
as they could assume ; which was not much. It
was too bad of fate ; too bad !

Ah ! Miss Vyvian, how are you ? I believe
you asked me to come up this afternoon to show
you our new plans for the school-house,' began
Jack Wood fluently, to give them time to recover
themselves, and then he rushed iutd details of

his scheme. Violet was aghast. A week ago
she had truly made the appointment ; and yet
she, who prided herself on being so methodical,
had forgotten it entirely. She threw in a ' yes '
or ' no ' in secret confusion, while the young
vicar hurried out his explanations ; understanding
next-soothing of what that good-natured
fellow was saying, as he guessed. * Good-bye,
Miss Vyvian, I am heartily obliged to you for so
kindly taking an interest in the matter. Perhaps
you will allow me to come back another
day and tell you more about it,' said the visitor,
at the very first gate that gave him a chance of
saying his adieux and bolting homewards.
And, good-bye to you, Ramsay. You are off
tomorrow, are you not ? but I hope we shall
very soon see you back again.' Whereupon,
with a very friendly handshake, and a comical
twinkle in his eye. Jack Wood made himself
scarce as rapidly as possible.

The two whom he had just disturbed from
the happiness of their little half-hour of Eden,
could hardly help laughing as they looked after
the tiresome third. And just then Miss Yyvian's

bailiff came round a corner of a copse, evidently
resolved to have his interview, for he instantly
stood stock-still.

It's six o'clock, and I shall never be able to
get rid of him ; he is so obstinate,' whispered
Violet, in desperation.

What it is to be an heiress I Never mind —
we have a life-time before us,' whispered Jack.
So, with a hurried promise of meeting very early
on the following morning for a few last words
before Jack left for Aldershot, and with a close
pressure of hands, they parted. There was no
more to be said with the inquisitive eyes of
Violet's bailiff upon them ; an old man who had
grown grey in her father's service, and who
allowed himself to admonish his young mistress
if she ever showed symptoms of deferring
business to pleasure.

That evening Miss Vyvian looked sweetly, if
silently radiant, dreaming mostly through dinner
with a smile ever-brooding on her face. But
sometimes she woke up to occasional flashes of
brilliancy in talk, far out-doing her ordinary
self. Once or twice she looked quietly round at

the Holbein and Kneller, all family portraits,
that gazed solemn-eyed at her from the wainscoted
walls of the dining-room.

Good-bye to you all she thought, feeling ungratefully
Hight-hearted at the prospect of
parting from them. What were they, and the
massive silver plate on the table, her many
well-trained servants, all this dulness of wealth,
as she termed it in her light-hearted gladness —
what were these things worth in comparison of
the great joy of being always with Jack Ramsay
through life henceforth.

So, after dinner, Violet went to the piano and
played to Rufus all his favourite airs, which
Kate generally declined to strum as everlastingly
as he liked, being sick of them, she declared,
(and they were certainly rather of the street-organ
kind of music). And she had a game of
piquet with him afterwards, whilst Kate eyed
them moodily from over a French novel, the
pages of which she seldom if ever turned.

'What a pity we haven't Jack Ramsay and Mrs.
Beaumont up for this last night,' Rufus tentatively
remarked, with a knowing smile in his

blue eyes, for with such a red forest of beard
he had Httle room elsewhere to smile.

0— I don't know. We will have them
many more times, I hope,' answered Violet,
evasively, and directly felt conscious. She had
not invited them yesterday to come up this
evening because — she was a coward. She was
not then sure of Jack, and feared he ' meant
nothing ;' the secret pain of meeting him for the
last time would be greater than the pleasure.
And now she was sure — quite sure ! But she
was selfish, and still rather rejoiced that he was
down at Littleforde.

If I cannot have him all to myself, I don't
much care to share his society with Rufus and
Kate,' said this love-greedy young woman to
herself.

How happy Violet looks to-night ! I'll bet a
pony she and Ramsay have settled matters
Between them, eh, Kate V said Rufus later, in the
seclusion of their connubial chamber, to his wife.
Well, I declare, I'm glad of it, though it does
seem an awful pity. They'll be the happiest couple
that ever was, I believe — except ourselves.'

VOL. I. U

And feeling by the last words he had said the
right thing, redeeming that well-nigh unconscious
slip of the tongue — for if ever any misgivings
assailed his mind as to his real happiness
whenever Kate was unusually exacting, or full
of the whims of a spoilt beauty, the honest
fellow drove them out forthwith — Rufus soon
slept the sleep of the just.

In the further gallery, Violet was almost too
happy to sleep. She seemed to herself awake,
yet wandering in a state of blissfulness through
heavenly visions, when her door softly opened.
She started up in alarm from dozing, as a candle
gleamed in her bewildered eyes, and Kate
O'Brien cautiously approached the bedside. Kate
looked like a spirit in her white dressing-gown
as, with her glorious dark hair falling down her
back, and her face wearing a singularly mournful
pathetic expression that softened its warmly-heed
earthly beauty, she stood mutely regarding
Violet from under her down-dropped eyelashes.
With a foreshadowing of some coming
woe, the latter half-rose and asked quietly,

What is wrong? Is there anything the matter?*

I fear so. Forgive nie for disturbing you
like this, but there is something heavy on my
mind that I could not speak to you about, dear,
before Rufus to-night — and tomorrow may be
too late. He is asleep, now.'

Go on. What is it that would be too late
tomorrow?' said Violet, with outward calm.
And yet some instinct seemed to warn her
what was coming.

Kate had put down her candle, and was
sitting on the side of her friend's bed.

It is about Captain Ramsay,' she said, bringing
out the words with a great effort. * I hope
I trust I am wrong, Violet dear, but there
seems to be some sort of mutual understanding
between you both. We have been such friends,
you and I, or I would not speak. But I am
terribly afraid.'

There is. He has told me he loves me, and
I love him in return,' declared Violet, proudly
raising her head. ' If you wished to warn me
against that, it is indeed too late. Don't spoil
my happiness by croaking over my lost fortune,
Kate ; I have chosen, you see ! I prefer him

U2

infinitely to any fortune — to any other man.*

Then you are irrevocably engaged to be
married to him V uttered Kate, gloomily, as if
murder not marriage was the subject of this
midnight talk.

I — of course ! — that is understood,' faltered
Violet, blushing up; as for the first time it
occurred to her," that Jack had not after all
exactly asked her in so many words to be his
wife. But still '

A sudden gleam came in Kate's dark eyes,
like a faint flicker of hope over a sea of
trouble.

But he has not distinctly proposed, has he ?
To say he loves you is nothing, nothing ! Why,
a man will say that to any number of women —
and certainly ' (with scathing scorn) ' Jack
Ramsay has done so to my knowledge — without
dreaming of marriage.'

I don't believe you ! He is true and honest,'
broke in Violet, with flashing g eyes. * He is incapable
of acting dishonourably towards me, or
anyone.'

He is not incapable of having fooled us

both,' came in bitter answer. ' Oli, Violet,
Violet I if you have made no absolute promise,
if he has asked for none, be warned by my
fate. He may desert you in time, as he has me.'

< You — Kate ! In heaven's name ! how V
Violet uttered, in an anguished whisper.

Kate bowed herself upon the bed and hid
her beautiful face in her hands, as she bitterly
answered,

Of course it was wrong, very wrong — but 1
could not help it. He was so handsome ; with
such a charm of manner ! Oh, you know it all.
He has made you love him, now. Well, so he
did me.'

But, Kate— I never noticed anything. Nothing
beyond a mere little flirtation now and
then, that Rufus never seemed to mind.'

Poor Violet felt amazed and stupefied ; she
was trying dully, yet desperately, to fight in
her lover's cause. The answer came like a
knell to her hopes.

You don't suppose we wished Rufus, or you
either, to notice it.'

A silence fell in the room. Both young

women sat shivering on the bed, with different
feelings, but equal misery of mind.

Violet felt a stony despair settling down upon
her. Her tongue seemed tied; she could not
ask her friend the questions that were trembling
on her tongue. Kate was sick in soul at
her own baseness ; shivering guiltily lest, after
all, it might fail. She writhed her body with
horror at the thought — at what Jack Avould
think of her if ever he came to know.

I don't say, Violet, that he may not love you
now. Of course you are very nice-looking ;
and, after all, five hundred a-year is not so bad,'
she faintly murmured. ' It is only, dear, that
the change seems just — just a little sudden. He
ought to have been quite sure he was off with
the old love, before he was on with the new !'
(with a faint laugh). ' It was only this very
afternoon that he met me and said good-bye.
Perhaps he met you too.'

Violet could not speak. Her heart seemed
overcharged with gall, as she remembered — ah !
only too well — Jack's strangeness of manner
when he confessed to being delayed by meeting

Kate. His lute kisses seeiiiod to blister her face
as she sat there rigid, and looked down at the
woman crouched before her in self-abatement.

Kate spoke feebly again, with a ghastly inirtli
against herself.

What a fool you must think me, dear ! Yon
will be able to laugh with him some day at how
I believed all his sweet speeches. And you maybe
very happy, I daresay — unless he changes
once more. It's only the way of the world, my
dear ; you'll get used to it.'

I do not know much of the ways of the
world in love-making, but I shall never get
used to that,' said poor Violet, truthfully, her
proud, virgin soul recoiling at the thought that
her lover could come straight from the woman
he had beguiled to meet her honest eyes, to
claim her fresh, first love.

After a while — it seemed somewhat a long
while — Violet nerved herself to utter, in solemn
appeal,

Kate ! can you answer me just cue question t
I will ask no more. Was there anything that
passed between you and Captain Ramsay lately

anything (not on your part, but on his) that
ought, in honour, to have prevented him from
trying to gain my affection too ? I must — I will
take your word for it.'

Kate O'Brien shuddered. The temptation
was so awful. Jack's honest face rose before
her eyes ; this girl's trustful friendship demanded

equal fair-dealing, and yet The man was

so handsome ; she loved him with all the passion
of a violent, selfish nature. she remembered
how, that very afternoon, Jack had almost
roughly repulsed her when she waylaid his
steps ; he had left her with abruptness, rudeness
as she angrily declared to herself — in order, as
she now knew, to seek a farewell interview with
Violet.

Kate's face blanched; her very lips turned
-ashy as, in a stifled voice, she whispered, ' Yes.'

Then she turned and crept away, leaving
Violet alone.

END OP THE FIRST VOLUME.

London : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

V^- i^:

VOL. II.

M. F. H.

BT

MAY CROMMELIN

AUTHOR OF ' QUEENIE,' ' BRO^VN EYES,' ETC.
AND

J. MORAY BROWN

AUTHOR OF ' Shinar SKETCHES,' ' POWDER, SPUR, AND SPEAR,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13. GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1889.

All rights reserved.

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER I.

HARD HIT.

None can enter into Violet Vyvian's feelings,
during the long-drawn hours of the miserable
night she spent after Kate O'Brien had made
her painful confession and gone away, except
those who have passed through a somewhat
similar ordeal of bitterness.

Violet's blood seemed tm-ned to fever in her
veins. She lay with her eyes staring wide in
the darkness, still, quite still. And yet her soft
couch might have been a plank-bed, or even a
rack, for all the rest it gave her ; and after a

VOL. II. B

while the gifts sides were aching with veal,
physical weariness, yet she did not stir.

Her eyeballs were dry and burning like hot
cinders in her head. She had not even a tear
in pity of her own great misery to cool them.
At first poor Violet felt stunned, but presently
her thoughts sprang up and did wild battle in
her brain. She tried to reason, but in vain ; she
could only feel. And there was nothing now
left to feel but sorrow and exceeding bitterness.
Jack loved her ; yes, she was still sure of that.
But he, nevertheless, had been dishonourable,
untrue ; beguiling one woman's love treacherously,
and then abandoning it even while he
was already seeking that of another.

And Violet herself? — alas ! she knew that she
loved him just as much as ever, but she was
ashamed of it. She shuddered and shrank into
herself at the thought that, even so few hours
ago, he might perhaps have said almost the same
words to Kate which had afterwards sounded
so sweet in her own gladly-listening ears.

Oh, Jack, how could you ? — how could you?'
the stricken s-irl moaned in her heart. And

yet, no ! He could not have been so bad as
that.

So her thoughts strove with each other, and
now she sought to find excuses for Jack, and
again accused him bitterly of weakness and
selfishness, if not of double-deaHng and treachery
; and thus the night wore on.

Hoar strange it seems to all of us when, in a
few brief minutes, our whole life is sometimes
changed — it may be, ruined. To Violet, all the
fair future she had imagined of a happy marriage,
of mutual love, gladness, and helpfulness,
worth more than the money she willingly
renounced — and stretching on, please God,
through a vista of years to come — was shattered.
What remained ? Well, her old life, it is true ;
but she knew that it would never be the same
again.

sly love was wasted I' she said to herself,
with that inward, scornful laughter which is
bred of bitterness too intense for tears. Her
idol was fallen from its shrine and was broken,
that was all ! Her thirst in friends, in the honour
and honesty of this man and woman whom she

B 2

had believed in, as her own soul, was gone too —
that was more.

No nse blaming Kate now; she had, at least,
confessed her fault, so far as was possible, intime
to spare Violet worse pain. No use blaming
Jack either. He had not spared Violet, it is
true, but a woman is always willing to excuse a
sin that springs from love of herself. And poor
Rufus ! — trusting in Kate's affection so loyally
no use to think about him either. No use
thinking at all about what Alas done, and that
could not be undone.

And so the night wore on, while Violet lay
upon her bed,

Sick in heart, and sick in head,
And-with doubts discomforted.'

At last the long ' small hours ' passed, and
another day dawned. As soon as it began to
be light, the mistress of Forde Manor rose and
dressed herself in haste ; then sat down to write
a letter. She made many attempts that were
presently torn up as useless, for it was difficult
not to express more than she wished. ' It must
be a short letter,' she said to herself; but that, as

is a well-kuowu fcict, takes sometimes a longer
time to write than a long one. An hour had
gone by before at last it was finished, thus : —

I cannot meet you this morning, as I promised
yesterday. It Avould be better if we
never met again. Please do not ask me why ;
nor try to see me any more !

'Let it be sufficient that, since yesterday
evening, I have, most unhappily for myself,
learnt to see matters as they stand between us
in a true light.

V. V.'

Later on, when she knew the household was
up and stirring, Violet went downstairs, and,
taking her hat that always hung ready in the
hall, went out to the stables. There was not
much surprise felt among the men there at this
early visit ; for their young mistress was accustomed
to see after her horses pretty keenly
herself, as became an M.F.H. But, at any
hour, it must be said in praise of her rule and
the loyal attachment of the old servants, most

of whom had known her from a child, Violet's
bright face was a welcome sight ; and the men
cleaned buckles and bits more eagerly while
on the look-out for a pleasant word ; and the
horses whinnied in their boxes when they heard
her step, expecting a pat on the neck and some
little dainty of carrots or sugar, while there
would certainly be little amiss in the well-ordered
daily routine to call for inquiry, much
less blame, on the part of the mistress.

Violet called up one of the younger stable-boys,
a bright-eyed lad, the gamekeeper's son,
and desired him to carry her letter down to
Littleforde at once. She hoped that Ramsay
might thus get it before he should leave the
house, with the intention of meeting herself.
Then, as the lad went off, little guessing what
a terribly weighty message of good or evil
import to two persons, and one of them his
own rich and envied young lady, was in that
little note, Violet exerted herself to go into the
stalls and see how the grey. Moorcock, looked
after his late race, and have a little stable-chat
with her stud-groom as cheerily as if the last

night's blackness of misery Lad been a dream,
and that all things were as they had been even
yesterday morning. All things, she knew, ought
to seem to go on just the same in the little
world of Forde, of which she was the central
figure. She must pull herself together, and
wear a brave face, without showing that she
felt utterly crushed, hopeless, miserable

the stable-boy had not yet gone
through the park and reached the little door
in the wall, that had been made for Mrs. Beaumont's
own particular use, when he met ' the
captain,' apparently taking an early stroll in
the beechwood, to get an appetite for breakfast.
Jack had not slept much more than Violet last
night, but it was from excess of happiness.
In the highest possible spirits, he had risen far
earlier than was necessary, and come out this
morning to catch the first glimpse of Violet's
dress fluttering through the trees ; not to lose a
second of the brief time left in which to see
her bright face, and lure once more from her
own lips the sweet, shy assurances, given in
faltering words he found so deeply eloquent,

that sbe loved him. It seemed too amazing
a joy ! He could not realize it, yet it was
absolutely, actually true.

It was so good of her to consent to comedown
this morning to the wood, which was
his only chance of a hasty good-bye before an
early breakfast and hurrying off to catch the
morning train. Jack just then wished the
service anywhere ! in his heart ; for, but for
its exigencies and his brief leave, he could so
easily have stayed later, and settled all that
was left unsaid between himself and Violet.
He could still beg her this morning, however,
to write to him ; and ask also when he might
be allowed to come and see her again: and
when — chief question of all ! — he might hope
to claim her proudly as his very own, his
wife.

Meantime, Jack also wished — though this was
a lesser matter — to ask if he had her leave
to tell Margaret Beaumont of his great happiness.
Dear, good Madge, she would be so
glad ! She had been Jack's chosen friend and
confidante from his boyhood, and he knew she

gave Violet little less than an elder sister's love
and admiration.

Margaret would be a good deal surprised,
although Jack surmised she guessed something
of his late private feelings. And she Avould
sigh a little in secret, no doubt, over the loss
of Forde Manor and the broad lands that went
with it, at which the lovers laughed so lightly
their happiness ; yet still she would, in her
heart, be glad — very glad.

A letter for you, sir. Miss Vyvian sent me
with it ;' and the stable-boy, whom Jack Ramsay,
in preoccupation of mind, had hardly noticed,
recognising who he was, and vaguely supposing
him on his way to Hagget's cottage, approached
touching his hat respectfully Then the lad
volunteered on his own account, ' Sorry you'd
going' away this morning', capt'n. I 'opes as 'ow
your 'loss 'Arlequin be none the fuss for his
race the day afore yesterday ? 'Twas the finest
sight ever I seed when you corned in must with
the bridle all sipped hoff and dangling about
'is legs, it was.'

All right, thank you, George. We're both

of US all right after it,' returned Ramsay, with
the pleasant voice that made him as much liked
and respected by those below him in station ashe
was a favourite among his equals. Then he
gave the lad half-a-crown and turned away into
another side-path, feeling a disappointed conviction
that Violet was not able to come this
morning, after all — that was it; perhaps she had
a head-ache, poor darling, or had slept badly
like himself, and he was glad she had not disturbed
herself early on his account — how
quickly thoughts flash ! — but still, still he held
between his fingers her first precious love-letter.


Ramsay gave a quick glance round. He was
alone among the trees, where tender signs of
April growth were shooting softly ; the birds
were twittering, and a pleasant breeze blowing.
In and out of the thick undergrowth on either
side of the grassy path some pheasants were
stealing, and then running across with speedy
legs, while apparently trying to preserve an air
of graceful dignity and composure as to their
bodies.

Jack was alone, so broke open his letter. He
read it once, bewildered ; a second time, and
put his hand over this eyes.

All right I was what he had laughingly said
of himself to the young groom so few seconds
ago. Even at that moment the memory of his
words dully came back to him.

All wrongs I — my God, what does it mean?'
he murmured, half-audibly, to himself, in his
agony. 'She loves me ; surely she cannot
intend to throw me over.'

For awhile Ramsay stood there, supporting
himself against the silvery trunk of a tall beech-tree,
motionless, hardly capable of thinking in
his stunned state. Then he raised the letter
again that was still between his listless, down-dropped
fingers, slowly unclasped the other
hand from his bewildered forehead, and stared
hard once more at the dainty note-paper, with
its lilac and silver monogram of a violet in one
corner. The pretty handwriting he had admired
before now, might seem to have faltered
a little lucre and there. But the words were

clear to see in black and white, ' It would he
better that ive never met again,"

Gradually the conviction came upon Jack
that Violet did mean this, indeed — that all was
over between them. He seemed numbed as the
truth dawned in his mind. His heart, that was
so hot a few seconds ago with the wholesome
warmth of love and happiness, was now frozen
on a sudden as with the touch of an icy coldness.
And then

Well, then, we may stand aloof a little while,
and leave him in his bitterness of souk As it
is in the nature of all animals to creep away and
hide themselves in some lair from observation
when they are wounded or in pain, so man, the
noblest of animals, shuns instinctively being
pried upon by any eyes in his hour of deepest
suffering.

But, as the still figure remained there under
the beech-tree, all manner of happy noises
broke out little by little, and ever louder in
the wood around. Nesting-birds were twittering
to their mates, and flying in and out of the
oo^Dpice in haste, while here and there a cock-thrush,

T\'hich had finished his yearly house-building,
sat on a twig near his round home,
and trolled out a full-throated song, or a
golden-billed blackbird whistled a ditty of glee ;
both rejoicing in the happy future of sunshiny
days, and callow, gaping nestlings, and plenty
of food to be picked up on dewy mornings and
warm evenings after pleasant showers when fat
worms rise to the surface of the green, refreshed
earth, and grubs are plentiful.

A deer or two belled down in the open
glades of the park ; cock pheasants crowed ;
rabbits frisked and fed ; and all manner of lesser
wild creatures, of small beasts, and birds, and
insects, took heart and gamboled and enjoyed
themselves without fear of the man hidden some
yards away behind the great tree. They were
all happy ; all enjoying themselves, though
he so near them was in pain that moment.
That is the way of the world ; and right it is,
surely.

At last Ramsay raised his head dully ; his
eyes stared a moment upwards through the
spreading branches where green leaf-buds hung

like a dotted shower that would soon burst into
broader foliage. But he could not yet take
any comfort in seeing the softly-blue sky far
overhead. It would bring its lesson of consolation
in time, as to lie in the bosom of nature
our great nurse does, in some wooded valley,
where a hidden stream sings through the fern,
or on a lone hill-brow, or by the seashore, — but
not yet. Then Jack's eyes, in descending,
caught sight of some letters carved in the bark,
apparently years ago. Only two initials, no
doubt those of some rustic lover and his lass,
with a heart rudely cut joining them. Since
long before the days when Orlando wandered
in the green forest of Arden, the beech-tree's
bark has been the book sacred to record fond
lovers' troth. Jack Ramsay smiled bitterly to
himself. * Was she faithful to her plighted
word, I wonder?' he said, under his breath.
Then suddenly he took out his pocket-knife, and
began cutting deeply in the bark, with such a
will that the letters were not Hkely to be
obliterated for many and many a year, J. — V.,

with a bar between. Then followed the date
of day and year.

It was an idle whim at such a moment ; but
as Jack dug his knife-point with savage energy
into the tree, and that the fresh wounds he
hewed stared at him in those familiar characters,
he seemed to gain relief for the time. No one
was ever likely to turn aside from the path into
the wood just there, or even notice the letters
should the beaters brush past on a November
day, while pheasants whirred over the open
grass-ride and shots were being fired from
the favourite corners where the sportsmen
would be stationed. But he — however far away,
if even thousands of miles of sea, and of foreign
countries intervened — would always be glad to
know, in his heart, that there in the leafy
recesses of an English wood, her property, he had
left the mark, known to himself only, of a day
never to be forgotten, of a love he at least
would ever hold fast whilst those letters lasted.
And they were not likely to be lost in the slow
growth of the tree, till he was either long dead

or had lived far beyond man's allotted span of
years.

The clanging of a bell heard through the
trees, and coining across the park-wall and road
outside, startled Kamsay. He had been standing
stupidly still, looking at his handiwork, in
truth not knowing what he was about. Hurrying
back to Littleforde through the door in the
wall, of which he had some time ago appropriated
Margaret's pass-key, Jack pushed back the
white swing-gate. He found Miss Dolly on the
trim little lawn, near the beehives, ringing the
dinner-bell, that seemed half as big as herself,
in erratic fashion. Sometimes, by grasping it
hard with both chubby hands and swinging it a
few inches from the ground a good deal of
jangling noise was produced. But just now,
anxious to emulate the feats of the parlour-maid,
she swung it high in her fat arms, when
with one dismal toll or two the tongue dropped
on the side, and Dolly hugged her silent bell in
astonished indignation.

'Me doing sexton. Come to your bleakfess,'
she announced, doubtfully relinquishing her big

toy in favour of prospective hot Uttered cake
and marmalade.

You are indeed, Dolly,' said Jack, thinking,
poor fellow, that the child was unconsciously
ringing the knell of his newly-dead happiness.
The little girl made a trotting rush across the
grass to grasp his hand.

You were not at passers with us this morning.
You are a naughty boy, Uncle Jack,' she
observed, with a look of grave rebuke, but a
sound of delight in her accents at catching
her frequent Mentor and favourite playfellow
tripping.

Very likely, Dolly. Pm afraid I'm not nuich
good, nor worth anyone thinking well of me,'
was the wearily dismal answer. Then Ramsay
stood still and collected himself, trying to show
no signs of the blank misery that seemed ready
tu overwhelm him when he entered a minute later
to greet his cousin, smiling prettily as ever
behind her tea-urn, and proceeded to swallow a
few mouthfuls of toast, that seemed likely to
choke him, with an air of great haste. Nevertheless,
his looks were so pale tluy did not

VOL. II. C

escape the affectionate scrutiny of the beautiful
brown eyes that watched him.

*What is the matter with you, Jack, this
morning?' Mrs. Beaumont presently asked.
You are looking quite out of sorts, and last
night you were in the highest of spirits. Have
you had any bad news.'

How should I have an}^ bad news, my dear
old Madge,' (with a forced laugh), ' why, your
post has not come in yet.'

You did not chance to see Violet Vyvian,
this morning, in your ramble, did you ?' asked
Margaret, after a long pause, with laboriously
feigned indifference.

Miss Vyvian ! no, I have not seen her since
yesterday,' returned Jack, truthfully, in the
dogged sort of tone with which men seek to
repel feminine attempts to search too closely
into matters that concern them not.

Good-bye, Dolly, how soon will you forget
mew he said presently, taking up the little maid
in his arms.

'Never — never. Not till I am quite big,'
answered Dolly, covering his face with kisses.

That's it ' said Jack, with a little groan,

putting her down ; then he wrung Margaret
Beaumont's hand and jumped into the waiting
dog-cart.

CHAPTER II.

ONLY LET ME HOPE.'

A WEEK — a fortnight — three weeks — and not a
hne of further explanation from Violet. Jack
tried to be patiently trusting, thinking everyday
would bring him another letter from her.
What had he done ? Why did she not write ?
His first impulse was to ask for an explanation,
for he could not understand this sudden transition
from almost avowed love on her part, and a
love he felt sure he possessed, to those few cold
lines of dismissal. Was it that, at the last
moment, she found the sacrifice of lands and
wealth too much to niake for his sake? Yet
she had told him she would gladly give up all
for him.

It was not as if ho Alas a needy man. He
Alas fairly well-oft", with the prospect of
coming into a nice Httle property at the death
of an old uncle, whose heir he was, and this —
added to the five hundred pounds a-year violet
would in any case be entitled to under her
father's will — would be quite sufficient for them
to live comfortably on. Of course they could
not afford such luxury as she now enjoyed, but
still their income would be enough to get along
on very well. Then those words, 'Please do
not ask me why ; and do not try to see me,'
continually tormented him. It was unfair on
her part, and bitter thoughts rose to his mind
about the fickleness of women in general, and
Violet in particular ; yet these in turn melted
away into a tenderer one for this woman that he
now loved with all his heart and soul. He was
too loyal to her, to think that she could have
acted thus without some powerful reason, and
that she did not wash him to inquire into her
motives was evident ; so what could he do but
respect her wishes on this point ? No, he must
just grin and bear it, and he did his best to do

SO in a brave and manly way. He was no half-hearted
sentimentalist, to sigh and fret for what
he saw he could not obtain — and therefore
threw himself with redoubled ardour into all the
duties of his profession, and, keen soldier as he
always had been, he became keener still. Try
as he would, however, he could not always control
his feelings, and his friends and brother-officers
noticed by degrees that the Jack Ramsay
of former days, who had always been foremost
in any fun or excitement that Alas going
on, who had been the life of the Horse Artillery
quartered at Aldershot, had now given up polo,
cricket, racquets, and was not always running
up to town to the theatres, etc., but instead, had
suddenly developed an extraordinary predilection
for long, solitary, country walks.

O ! my dear fellow,' he would answer, when
questioned on this novel taste, ' you must remember
that soldiering is a serious business
now-a-days. I'm studying the topographical
features of the surrounding country — going
in for surveying — and trying to rub up what
I learnt at Woolwich years ago. Besides, you

know, there is to be a big sham-fight here
soon, with no end of big-wigs clown to see
it ; and I want the old battery to cut a dash —
so am picking out and noting any nasty spots
we may have to get over.' And with this
reply his inquirers had to be content, though
young Shrapnel, one of the subalterns in his
battery, Wisely remarked one day to a friend,
I'll bet a pony there is a petticoat at the
bottom of all this, though old Jack is too reserved
a man to acknowledge it, even if one
asked him.'

Still, strive as he would, life was becoming-very
weary to poor Jack. Day after day he
turned over his letters impatiently, and yet no
line from Violet appeared among them. He
had heard once or twice from Margaret Beaumont,
but she made no allusion to the Forde
Manor party, though in his replies to her he
had always added a postscript of, * Kind regards
to all at Forde.' He was getting sick at heartsick
and weary, waiting for the word that
never came.

At last one day he resolved on the course

he should pursue. It was a pouring wet afternoon,
and the outlook was gloomy in the extreme
; in fact, a day which no sane man would
have selected for a country ramble, however
much he might be addicted to admiring the
beauties of nature. Jack had skimmed through
all the papers in the ante-room, and was standing
staring out of the window, watching the
rain as it steadily descended, forming great,
inky-looking puddles on the peaty soil of the
road, and thinking, thinking what was nov a
daily, nay, hourly, thought with him : When
should he hear from Violet ? At last he roused
himself, and went off to his barrack-room, determined
to divert his mind by some occupation —
sketching, some stiff reading, or anything that
might take him away from himself.

His room was, though tiny, a very cheerful
one, and bespoke the tastes of its occupant.
The little den that formed his sitting-room contained
the conventional articles of an officer's
room — a couple of easy-chairs, a writing-table,
a whip-and-stick rack, etc., a few good pictures
of sporting subjects and a rare etching or two

adorned the walls, on which were hiuig several
foxes' masks and brushes. A few little knickknacks
of china and some flowers were scattered
about the room, whilst on a bear-skin before
the cheerful fire lay a black retriever, Jack's
faithful and constant companion. A small bookshelf,
containing volumes on military tactics and
gunnery, some few sporting works, with history
ancient and modern, and biographies of eminent
men, showed that his taste in literature had a
tendency to the instructive. Altogether, a vers
snug and cosy little room. Lighting a pipe.
Jack threw himself into an easy-chair, and, after
a few vigorous puffs, allowed his thoughts to
wander away into the old vein once more.
Violet could not really care for him ; she preferred
her money and her lands to him. Ah !
there it was. He was thinking too much of his
own misery. ' Why should not she enjoy herself,
poor darling?' he said to himself, as his
thoughts again strayed into a more tender
strain.

Long time did Jack sit in his arm-chair
thinking, until at times he felt as if his brain

must burst. He then tried drawing, to divert
his thoughts ; but somehow there seemed to
be more unison between pencil and mind than
between pencil and inclination, for his sketches
invariably took the form of a face and figure
marvellously like Violet. Then he dipped into
a volume of Froissart's Chronicles but the quaint
old language seemed monotonous in his present
frame of mind, and had lost all the charm it
had once possessed for him. So this was flung
aside.

At last he took up a little morocco-leather
case on his table, and, holding it in both hands,
gazed eagerly and lovingly at it. It Alas a
small portrait of a handsome, winning-looking
old lady — his mother, who had died some four
or five years ago. Of all beings on earth, Jack
had loved and reverenced his mother the most
deeply ; and from the time when he was a tiny,
toddling bairn, and had run to tell his mother
all his boyish troubles, knowing that at her
gentle hands he would be sure to meet with
tender loving sympathy and consolation, to the
days when, later on in the first flush of his

manhood, he had got into more serious scrapes
he had never had any secrets from her. She
had always been to him the true friend, the
trusted counsellor, and the loving woman ; and,
when she died, he felt as if half that made life
happy and enjoyable was gone.

Often and often the thought of ' what would
mother say?' or 'what would mother think T
had kept him not only from perhaps committing*
some imprudent act, but more, yea, even from
sin ; for Jack was as other men, and to him the
charms of the opposite sex had gi-eat attractions.
Not that he was immaculate — who is ?
but the thought of his loved mother, and how it
would grieve her if she knew her only son had
done aught unworthy of a man and a gentleman,
gave him a higher feeling of reverence
and chivalrous respect for all women, because
she had been a woman and a good Avoman, that
highest creation of the Almighty's, and the
greatest blessing He has given to man to share
and fight the great battle of life with him.
Often when Jack was in trouble about anything,
he would gaze long and earnestly at that

little miniature of the dead mother that he had
idolized, and strive by so doing to gain
inspiration and assistance.

! mother, mother, if you were only alive,
you could help me ; you would tell your boy
what to do,' he said, as he kissed the little
picture reverently. Then, after a while, things
became clearer to him ; he thought out his way
on the path of generous chivalry. He would
not worry Violet, but make her one appeal, and
then, if that produced no result, — well, he would
exchange to a battery in India. There was
always something going on in that great nursery
for soldiers, some little war or excitement of
some sort that might take his thoughts away
from himself. Nay, he might perhaps have the
chance of distinguishing himself, and by so
doing win back Violet's esteem.

He knew that if he stayed at home he could
not much longer fight against the passionate
Longing to see his love, to speak to her, to ask
from her own lips the why and the wherefore
of that letter which had come like a black cloud
between him and what promised to be the sunshine

of his life, and which even now lie had a
sort of superstitious feeling would not be dissipated
for many a long day. No, it was much
better he should go away ; but he would write
just this once, and, if he got no answer, then —
Ah ! God help him, for he felt life would indeed
be drear.

Thus, therefore, he wrote :

What have I done that you would not seeme
as you promised on the morning that I left
Littleforde ? I have tried to respect your wishes,
and not ask for an explanation, but I cannot
refrain any longer. Heaven knows I have
given you all my love, Violet, and I thought I
had yours. At least in common fairness tell me
the cause of this sudden change in your feeling ;
tell nie what I am accused of, and who m}'
accuser is, that I may have an opportunity of
clearing myself. I have given you all my heart
oh ! my darling, my darling, do not crush it,
and throw it away from you. If you care for
lands and wealth more than for me, and cannot
bring yourself to give them up for my poor sake,
in honesty say so. Do not think I shall lame

you for it ; and, though it will be a hard and
bitter struggle, still let me always be your
friend — a true friend, Violet, as you once promised
you would be to me. A real friend is so
hard to gain, and alas ! often so difficult to
keep ; but I do believe even now that I have
your friendship, if not your love. I will do
anything you bid me, only let me hope; but
when that dies out, life will indeed be hard forme.
Still, if it be for your happiness, dearest,
I will not murmur, but try to bear all like a
man for your dear sake. Only please, please in
pure mercy tell me why you have changed.
God bless and keep you. — Jack.'

With a spirit of self-abnegation strong in his
manly, honest heart, it had cost Jack Kamsay a
great deal ere he could pen this appeal to
Violet, but at last it was done, sealed, and
posted.

Several weeks elapsed, however, and no reply
came ; and then, though he was no narrow-minded
egotist influenced by jealousy or paltry
feeling that is apt to conjure up offence, all
his pride and feeling of self-respect rebelled,

and he made up his mind to exchange to India.
Yes, the more he thought of it, the more
certain he was that he had arrived at a right
decision. Out there in the far East all would
be new to him ; he would have opportunities of
indulging in all the adventurous excitement
that the pursuit of big game affords, such as
the tamer life of Old England could never
offer him — nay, perhaps in the great game of
war. He would try to bear patiently the trouble
and the cross laid upon him as his dear dead
mother would wish him to do. Had she been
alive he knew she would have been the first
to urge on him the step he was about to take ;
and, hard and bitter though it would have been
to her to part with her heart's darling, she
would have said, * Go, my boy, and God bless
and guard you I' And so, after carefully going
over all the pros and cons of the situation, the
exchange was completed and he was shortly to
sail for India ; but when he announced this fact
to his brother-officers one night at mess, loud
were their lamentations, and many were the
questions put as to why he had taken this step.

AVhat on earth are you going out to that
beastly country for?' asked one.

Look here, old man, if you are hard up, I'll
fly a kite With you,' said another.

You promised to ride Gimcrack for mo at
the races, and who on earth am I to get to do so
now?' queried a third.

For goodness sake leave petticoats alone,
Jack, and stick to sport,' sagely observed
young Shrapnel.

But to all these remarks, and kindly offers of
assistance, .Jack turned a deaf ear, and only
answered smilingly,

It is awfully kind of you all, but I'm not
hard up ; and you are quite right. Shrapnel, and
it's just for that reason I am going to the
glorious Past. I want to have some pigsticking
and some big game shooting before all my
nerves go ; but my mind is made up, the exchange
is effected, and I shall soon be off. So
there is no more to be said except to drink all
your very good healths and pledge you all to our
next merry meeting.'

No more than this could be got out of

Ramsay even by his greatest friends. Brenda
he sent down to old Squire Bentley, asking him
to take care of her and use lier as a hack.
Erebus, this two chargers, and a smart pony
went up to Tattersall's. Only Harlequin
was left at Aldershot in charge of young
Shrapnel, till Jack should come back for the last
time to wish his friends adieu and collect all
this impedimenta ; then he went up to town to
buy his kit, rifles, &c., and make his final preparations
for departure.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER III.

KATE S TEMPTATION.

May was meanwhile coming to its prime at
Forde Manor. No shrewish, nipping May as too
often makes us jeer at old Herrick and his fellow-poets,
and their worship of the merry month.
But one of those rare, early summer-times when
the hawthorn-trees dotting the park seemed
weighed down with their fragrant snowy
loads ; and laburnums made a yellow glory with
their down-dropping golden-chains ; and the
lilacs nodded heavy-headed with their own
sweetness.

The sunshine was so softly warm ; the whole
earth fresh, and fair, and green. And Violet

Vyvian, meantime, walked through her woods,
and by the lake, or followed the windings of the
brook that meandered through her farm and
park, with a heavy heart and a sense of great
desolation in her young life, as she rambled
aimlessly on — alone.

Alone ! That was how it would have to be
through so many more springs and summers
and winters, till she grew, if she lived, to be an
old woman.

1 cannot hear it /' she would sometimes cry
aloud in her heart, pausing in her lonely walk
and staring with unseeing eyes at the glassy
lake, where some moriens and wild ducks
were slipping through the sedges by the shore,
and a heron flapping slowly away with broad
greyish-blue wings. It seemed so hard, to be
rich, young, pleasant enough to look upon — but
so miserable ! Then she knew it was mere
rubbish to say she could not bear it, for that she
must. What was more, she must bear it bravely,
not creeping about half-sinking under her
secret burden of bitterness, and bringing her
own shadow into other folk's little spell of sun

2

shine ; which may be brief enough as Hfe goes on,
so let them rejoice while they have it. Violet,
therefore, braced herself to go through all her
duties with plodding perseverance, and neither
the house nor the stables, the garden nor farm,
and, to come to larger matters, the affairs of her
property, nor the poor of the parish, found her
wanting in carefulness and will. But it was alla
daily, weekly effort — she had no heart in these
things.

After all, it was harder on poor Violet than
it might have been on some other women.
Hers was no reserved melancholy nature, but
one most open, clinging, and affectionate. Had
she had any sister or brother whose daily companionship
and affection she might still have
relied on, even a cousin, a friend — ' Why, then I
should not feel so utterly a solitary speck in the
world,' the girl self-argued, taking her own part
once or so, by way of fairness, after scolding
herself into some severe efforts sat gaiety, forsake
of the neighbours, at a country bazaar and
some tennis-parties which left her unusually
worn-out and depressed.

At first Violet bad some yearnings to make a
clean breast of the Avbole matter to ber true
friend, Margaret Beaumont. Then sbe hesitated
; it would be dishonourable to Kate O'Bnen.
Next sbe decided to wait and see better Jack
himself bad said any word to bis cousin on the
subject. Now, if a woman can manage to keep
ber tongue silent regarding any secret for forty-eight
hours, the chances are that the longing to
tell some one will pass over ; and most likely sewell
bless ber own discretion.

80 it was with Violet. Sbe went almost daily
now to the little white bouse, were sbe was
certain of a glad welcome ; although the
matter nearest ber heart was never mentioned.

I cannot make out what it bas been between
ber and Jack,' mused Margaret to herself.
Probably only a serious flirtation ; and both
bave seen that, owing to that terrible will,
nothing more could come of it. Least said
soonest forgotten, in such affairs. Well, I'm
afraid they bave both been rather bard bit, for
Violet is certainly pale, and bas lost ber spirits a
little. But sbe is true stuff, and so is be ; and

both will take their share of this world's trouble
nobly. Such wills ought not to be allowed !
The idea of anyone after death making the
lives of other people miserable !*

These visits, and her occasional solitary
rambles, were Violet's chief, indeed only hours
of relief. But the latter walks were a pleasure
much resembling pain. Hardly a spot in Forde
Manor park, woods, and fields, but had some
association with Jack ; and, of course, like all
true lovers, Violet sought those places where he
had been, and conjured up the past scenes in
her mind over and over again.

To enjoy these pleasures of melancholy, however,
she tried to avoid the jealous scrutiny
of Kate O'Brien's dark, gloomily-watchful eyes.
The latter had been fitful and moody ever since,
by her own doing, she had banished Jack Earn-say.
She tried to control her temper towards
her hostess, Violet ; but too often the spark of a
bitter look, or a sharp word would flash out,
betraying the fire of unsatisfied longing and
wrathfulness in the spoilt beauty's heart. And
Violet tried to be kind always, and patient with

these little outbreaks, but secretly chafed, and
was as miserable as Kate. Both women, knowing
they loved the same man, naturally could
not get on together.

What a fool I am ! I must not quam-el with
my bread-and-butter,' Kate would reproach herself
angrily. Then again she would add, in
mingled remorse and self-excuse, ' After all, I
have succeeded ; she has not got him I I have
done her harm enough, as far as love goes, so I
might forgive her for coming unknowingly
between me and the one man on earth I now
care for. But there I I have strong feelings;
while Violet seems only made of milk-and-water.
Heavens I how could she have given
him up so easily ? I never would have done it.*

*Poor Kate I' Violet sighed to herself. 'I
must try to bear with her for Rufus' sake. If
I did send them away now, to leave me in peace
in my own house, she has nowhere to go to, I
know. After all, she has the worst of it. I have
a clear conscience, and my home and fortune,
and — 1 had his love last.'

So, to avoid all chance of meeting Kate

O'Brien during her out-of-doors reveries, Violet
took to early rising, and had her quiet hour
outside before breakfast, whilst Mrs. O'Brien was
still heavily asleep after a troubled night, during
which conscience had been a waking executioner
to whom she seemed to be given over
for torture until dawn.

One morning about seven, when the dew
still lay in silvern freshness on the gi-ass and
bushes everywhere, Violet went through the
park. A fancy possessed her this special morning
to picture to herself as far as possible the
scene on that other fateful one. when her lover
got her note bidding him adieu for ever. A
question to George Haggett, put with the most
careless air, had excited the reply she wanted.

The captain wur standing' just by the cross-paths
in the wood, so I had no need to go onto
Littleforde ; he turned down towards the big
beeches afterwards, I think.'

Now Violet was on the familiar path to Little-force
leading through her own woods. How
often Jack Ramsay had come that way, and she
had watched his tall straight figure approaching

between the trees, the goodness mau she had
ever seen. This was the spot, by the cross-paths
I Here — he must have turned down towards
the big beeches, at just this hour, on just
such a fresh sweet mouthing, so little time ago.
Moving aimlessly on, only impelled by the fancy
that her feet were pressing the turf where
Ramsay had passed, Violet strayed aside, and,
by strange chance, paused to rest a minute
under the largest of the beech-trees bordering
the glade.

Raising her eyes after some musing, a sudden
thrill shot through the girl's body, a hot rush
of blood dyed her face. There on the tree-bark
the letters J. — V. stared her in the face,
and the date. In a glance she saw it all, and
understood. The old letters above of some
forgotten lovers, joined by a double heart ; hers
and his below, but with a bar cut between them.
Violet trembled a Httle, then she sat down on
the mossy ground and leaned her head against
the swelling bole of the old tree.

How intensely she longed the beech could
have told her lover's thoughts as he cut those

initials. A bar between them — yes, there truly
was. But perhaps, nevertheless, her memory
might still remain graven in his heart. Violet
ought perhaps to have blamed Jack Ramsay in
her own ; but, to tell the truth, she did not do
so.

If one only knew all, one could surely enter
into another's feelings, and so understand the
temptation, and forgive everything,' she said to
herself. Violet strongly felt that ; ' tout com
jyrendre^ best tout pardonner.^ She believed there
had been wrong, from Kate's own avowal ; words
spoken at least that should never have been
said ; but she only pitied Kate, and him, too.
How dare any of us sinning mortals judge each
other ? Violet Vyvian, at least, said to herself
that, though she was not conscious of ever
having done any action that she need be
ashamed of hearing proclaimed in the marketplace,
it was from no special goodness in herself.
Probably, as often as others, she might
have walked heedlessly on the edge of a
precipice without knowing it. Others had
slipped downwards ; she, by the grace of a

power higher than her own, still had her feet
on sure ground. Some day, unless she took
yet greater care, who should say but what she,
too, might be brought as low, or lower? 'Let
him that thicket he standeth, take heed lest
he fall.' Thenceforth Violet's favourite lonely
walk was round by the beech-tree ride. Ther
seemed a link there, a last secret between
herself and Jack.

Meanwhile, Kate O'Brien was idle, for she had
no duties of property laid upon her, as she bitterly
told herself, and she certainly never toiled
at any self-imposed tasks. So she lay in a
hammock all day in the garden, with half closed
eyelids, and a French novel between her lazy,
Useless fingers. Sometimes poor Rufus, feeling
lonely, himself, now Ramsay was gone, would
come cheerily to the big cedar-tree and say,
seeking companionship from the beautiful being
who hardly stirred her black eyelashes to notice
his approach,

Well, little woman, do you feel like having
a stroll with me, eh ? No, is it ? Well, then,
right you are ; and we'll stay here and be happy

together. Can yon make room for me, or shall
I swing you?'

0, Rufus, do go away. There is no room
for you here ; and you know I hate the smell of
a pipe,' Kate would reply, with an irritability of
tone there was no making any mistake about ;
it was so intense, though suppressed.

It's newly come to you, then !' Rufus could
not forbear the muttered retort. Without being
jealous, he could not help remembering that,
only a little time ago, when Jack Ramsay was
with them, Kate's nerves were perfectly equal
to staying in the billiard-room for any amount
of time, in spite of the said pipe. He turned
away now, remarking, with another attempt at
good-humour, ' Well, as my company seems less
in request than my absence here, I'll take myself
down to Littleforde, and see what our pretty
widow is after doing to-day.'

Littleforde seems to have great attractions
for you ; you were down there yesterday and
the day before and the day before that.'

Well, if you don't want me here, I suppose I
may as well go somewhere I What would you

like me to do ? Speak the word. What pleases
you, pleases me.'

0, nothing, nothing ! (only to be left in
peace,' this murmured inaudibly, but made
intelligible by the fretful frown on the broad,
white brow, and a look of dark scorn, before the
sleepy eyes covered themselves again with their
lids.

Kate's eyes seemed to be holding lightnings
in reserve those days. Rufus had not made two
strides away, however, before she called after
him,

You won't have your Mrs. Beaumont to
yourself. Violet is down there, too, as usual.'

I don't mind if she is. Besides, I won't
intrude upon their confidences if they are talking
any. Dolly is a good enough companion
for anybody.'

So you keep telling me. Your taste seems
so easily pleased that it is really hardly a high
compliment to me. May I ask how you spend
your time so usefully and agreeably — playing
cat's-cradle?'

'No ;' rather angrily. 'And if ye don't think

it's useful to make a little child happy, besides
being agreeable to oneself, faith ! I'm sony for

ye.'

Don't get cross, Rufus. You are always so
Irish when you are in a temper. Well, but
what do you do ? Now I come to think of it,
you have been hours and hours down there this
week.'

What does it matter ? It's seldom enough
you do think about where I am for hours and
lours

'Bat I leant to know /'

Kate drew herself up a little, holding the
hammock-cords with one arm raised above her
head. Her dark head looked so beautiful, her
pose was so languidly graceful, that Rufus,
although pretty well used to admiring his wife,
felt stirred to please her by obedience, flattered
that she cared about his small actions.

Well, then,' he confessed, yet with some
reluctance, ' I have been carpentering a bit.
I'm making Dolly a little cart.'

A go-cart I' Mrs. O'Brien broke into a jeering
laugh. ' What a fine idea ! Well, I hope

you are going* to turn nursery-maid afterwards,
and push your infant charge about all day.
Really, I must congratulate Mrs. Beaumont on
her new domestic ; what wages does she offer,
may I ask ?'

Thereupon she sank back into her hammock,
and turned on her other side. Rufus turned
away too, and Avent off" with long-legged, angry
strides, his face flushing a little.

I wish I hadn't told her, but it's always the
same thing. Much she cares I' he thought in
his heart ; then Avent with all the more determination
down to the friendly Avhite house outside
the park-avail, where almost every day,
after similar, or often far more trying and stormy
altercations With Kate, he found a pleasant
relief in the Welcome and kindly words of a
good and pleasant Avoman, and in the devoted
affection and silvery laughter of a little child.
Rufus was Avery fond of children, and it gladdened
him to have Dolly clamber on his knees,
then hug him boisterously round the neck and
cover his face With kisses ; to Avatch for him
when he came, and look sad after him when he

left. These were the wages about which Kate
had sneered — well, they were worth something.

Kate looked after his receding figure from
between her half-closed eyelids.

They all go down there,' she thought, with
a sort of resentment against Margaret beginning
to smoulder in her heart.

She was not jealous, exactly ; indeed, hitherto
she had been rather pleased when anyone
took Rufus off her hands, as she phrased it in
her heart. But now she felt vaguely as if he
had no right to console himself — for Kate knew
she herself often worried him — whilst she was
unhappy.

'I must stop his going to Littleforde,* she
added, darkly, to herself. Then, with a sudden
touch of remorse : ' Poor fellow, I am hard
towards him ! I must — I will try to treat him
more kindly.'

i\.nd she did so try that evening — at least,
for a little while. But next day the evil leaven
of bitterness working in her mind would seem
to poor Kate paramount to all wifely consideration.
She midst give it vent in fretfulness, or

sarcastic remarks on her happy-go-lucky spouse's
shortcomings as to good looks, manners, or 
necktie, if she did not drive
him more wild by discontented laments on the
poverty that kept her from going to London
this May or June for a few short weeks, even
a fortnight, of the season. It was cruel of Fate !
she felt, and said, when everyone else was sure
to be there. O'Brien could often have torn his
hair after these taunts ; then he would reason
with himself:

Poor girl ! It is hard upon her ; she is so
much handsomer than other women, and she
likes to be admired and have her amusement.
Maybe, it would have been a truer kindness if
I had never married her, though she was worse
off, and seemed unhappy, in her own home.'
Still, he hardened his heart, and made no more
efforts or sacrifices during the last few months
to give Kate the pleasures she wished.

I must make a stand some time ; better now
than too late,' he reflected, having learned
wisdom, by experience of Kate's extravagances
which he could ill afford, on former occasions.

VOL. n, E

The little household at Forde Manor thus
lived through the month of May, with sunshine
on their outer lives, and more or less of secret
trouble in their hearts. But one notable incident
remains to be told.

On that morning when Violet first found
Jack's inscription on the beech-tree, and was
accordingly late for breakfast, having spent
nearly an hour, lost in thought, sitting on the
mossy ground under the monarch of the wood —
on that very same morning, Kate happened, by
chance, to come down a little earlier than usual.
There, on the breakfast-table, she saw, among
an array of other letters awaiting Violet, one
that caused her to start and gasp, while her
temples throbbed, and the blood, arrested by
her affected breathing, suffused her face dark
red.

Jack's ! — his writing ! She was sure of it.
Kate gave a cautious, quick glance round, and,
seeing she was alone in the room, examined
the post-mark with greedy, inquiring eyes.
Yes ; his ! Not a doubt of it. Holding the

letter still in her hand, Mrs. O'Brien once more
looked around her.

It was a terrible temptation to feel that envelope
— Jack's very words hidden within it — in her
own gi-asp. Yet Kate faltered ; stood hesitating.
Rufus had stepped through an open window,
and was skimming the cream of the Times on
the gravel terrace, whilst waiting for their
young hostess. He had not even seen his wife
enter the room. Violet, so the servants said,
had not returned from her walk, so could know
nothing of this letter. Alas it one only of a
correspondence opened between the lovers ?
Was it an appeal for reconciliation. What loss
it's

If at that moment Rufus had turned his head ;
if only Violet's voice could have sounded coming
up the terrace-steps as usual from the
flower-beds below, Kate would have put the
letter down. But none of these things happened,
and so — she left the room rapidly, with
a noiseless, guilty step, carrying her prize with
her.

E 2

LIBRARY

A few minutes later, Violet appeared, a
little hurried and apologetic after hastening
home. And, at the same time, a servant came
in bearing a message that Mrs. O'Brien had a
headache and would like her breakfast in her
own room.

And so it was that, though Jack Ramsay
watched and waited long, no answer ever
came to his letter.

CHAPTER IV.

TURNING OVER A NEW LEAF.

It is a pretty well-established fact, that, if we
have once allowed ourselves to do a secret
injury to anyone, especially a friend, it is even
more difficult to feel kindly towards them afterwards
than if we were the aggrieved party
ourselves.

They never pardon who have done the wrong,'

is certainly not always true of those who are
earned away by strong passions that may be
counterbalanced by equally gi-eat and generous
virtues. But, in the matter of Kate O'Brien's
wrong-doing, its effect was to make her reproach
herself, yet be all the more captious and querulous

towards unsuspecting Violet ; ever on the
look-out for faults in the latter to justify herself?
as it were, for a deed more worthy of an enemy
than a trusted friend. Of course Violet, being a
good girl but faulty, and by no means angelic
in patience, was often secretly rasped. She
struggled hard to show forbearance, but
several times a day betrayed vexation, or
feared she had done so.

Even if she blamed herself unjustly for the
latter fault, she felt the soreness in her heart all
the same.

1 am getting to feel quite soured and wicked,'
thought poor Violet, appalled at the self-revelations
thus made as to her own capabilities for
cherishing secret anger and uncharitableness.
8 he was really being tried in a new way and
gaining slowly the victory over herself, in spite
of being often worsted ; but she did not yet know
that.

Kate O'Brien's struggles of mind were far
more violent She alternated between passionate
fits of penitence and wrathful breeding
over the events of the late months, that had

made her such a miserable woman. Once or
twice, she longed to bring back ' the happy
school-davrf past when Violet and she had been
as attached as sisters ; for in truth she loved
Violet, only she loved herself better.

But Violet, as was natural enough, shrank
from these outbursts of affection ; she could
never again feel just the same towards Kate —
not quite. And the latter guessed this and was
galled.

Upstairs, in the secret drawer of her Japanese
cabinet, lay Jack's letter still. Kate had opened
it carefully, thinking at the time — if on reading
the contents this action would serve her own
ends — to close it again and allow its lawful
owner to receive it. Now she still kept it, why,
she hardly knew ; but thought it safe in her
own possession, and several times took it out to
read again, harrowing her feelings by gazing on
those familiar characters.

One day, the horror of what she had done so
overcame Kate, being depressed already after a
bad night, that she sank upon her knees and
hid her face. She had never realized before the

whole wrong of her late actions ; step by step,
she had been drawn on till she had wilfully
parted the two beings she best loved — and one
of them who had so implicitly believed in her !
The scene in Violet's bed-room rose up vividly
before her. The great shining happiness in the
girl's face, that she had slowly murdered with her
own faltering words, till it died in stony-eyed
despair. Kate O'Brien knew she had uttered an
awful, terrible lie — but she knew too, that never
Avould Violet Vyvian marry the man she loved
with all her heart and soul, whilst that word
stood.

The guilty woman struggled up from her
knees and looked at her pale face in the glass,
then mechanically smoothed her ruled hair.

I must turn over a new leaf !' she resolved.
Perhaps in time Violet will let me make it upto
her, by being a better friend to her than I was
even in the beginning. It's no use trying for
that yet. But there is Rufus — I can always
win him back. It will be a good deed to make
him happy now, at least; for I've made him
miserable enough sometimes, I'm afraid.'

Fired by her own remorse, and feeling her
soul almost shriven already by this righteous
determination, Kate lost no time in putting it
into execution. She started off, then and thereto
find her husband in some of his usual haunts.
He was neither in the stables, the home farmyard,
uor the kennels. Kate searched for him
in vain in the study and the billiard-room, and
after standing and shading her eyes, whilst
looking through the grounds as far as she could
see, she said to herself reluctantly,

At Littleforde, as usual I 1 must pocket my
pride and follow him there, I suppose.'

But, on ringing at the rose-hung porch of
Littleforde, the trim maid who appeared could
only say that Mrs. Beaumont and Miss Vyvian
had gone down to the village to visit a sick
old man. Mr. O'Brien had come to call
also, but he had taken Miss Dolly out in her
new cart, somewhere into the Forde Woods,
she believed. With a slight curl of her lip,
Kate walked rapidly away, and entered the
Forde Park again in search of her truant
spouse.

Taking a good deal of unwonted exercise in
search of the blighted being to whom one
means to make up for all late trappings by a
futile of such kindness as shall cause his happiness
to blossom like the rose, is distinctly
fatiguing, and had a somewhat deterrent effect
on Kate's good intentions. She had walked
two miles, was hot and tired, and her dress was
slightly torn by scrambling over a fence and
through some brambles to effect short cuts,
when at last she emerged from the trees near
the lake, giving up the chase. As she came
slowly along the walk looking discontented,
moody, and dejected, she suddenly perceived
Cyril Vyvian standing smoking a cigarette with
an air of calm enjoyment ahead of her. It was
the first time they had met alone since his self-banishment,
for he had avoided Forde.

Kate felt a little nervous, and her steps
slackened. Cyril, on the contrary, exerted himself
to approach her With apparently perfect
self-possession but no haste.

I am afraid you are tired ; I have been
watching you these few minutes, and you seem

to have had a fatiguing walk'* he politely
remarked, merely lifting his hat in greeting.

Kate looked at him silently and darkly ; in a
swift second, in the first tone of his voice, she
recognised that here was a changed man.

He had gone from her presence last a miserable
wretch, who would have craved a word of
kindness on his very knees. Now he returned
looking open-faced and ruddy as usual, and his
whole bearing and tone showed him master of
his own mind and heart again — cured !

*I did not expect to have the pleasure of
meeting you down here, away from your usual
garden-hammock,' he went on, with the same
carelessly cutting civility. ' I rode over to see
my cousin Violet, and came this way on the
chance of finding her.'

I did not expect to meet you either,'
haughtily answered Kate, with a defiant flash
of her dark eyes ; conscious of her torn dress,,
and of being seen altogether at a disadvantage.
I am looking for my husband, so you will
excuse my leaving you.'

Have you not found him yet ? The gardener

told me you were gone out an hour ago looking
for him

Cyril's mocking tone of voice might have
roused an angry reply from the woman who
some months ago had played with his passionate
adoration, as a cat with a mouse, but that a
burst of childish laughter and a man's deeper
tones sounded near. And round a turn in the
walk, screened by bushes, came Dolly sitting
proudly in a smart little market-cart of polished
pine, drawn by a small pony, with Rufus running
by her side, alternately exhorting the pony to
get along, and wiping his forehead with a red
silk handkerchief. They pulled up, on seeing
the others.

Whose cart is that ? Adhere did Dolly get
it?' asked Kate, imperiously, interrupting
O'Brien's hearty greeting to Vyvian, whom he
had not seen for some time back.

It's her own cart. I built it for her myself,'
returned Rufus, coolly.

Yes. And he giv'd. me my pony, too. It's
mine o^vn pony,' jubilee Dolly, exulting over
the poor much-to-be-pitied other beings, who

owned no such a pony and vehicle, with which
the Queen's glass coach would hardly have
borne comparison in her opinion.

You gave her the pony — and cart,' uttered
Kate, slowly, as if disbelieving her ears. Then
after a pause, swallowing down secret indignation
at this * waste of money,' (Rufus had denied
himself some small luxuries to delight his little
favourite with this crowning treat), ' I have
been looking for you everywhere, Rufus. I
wanted you to walk with me. Will you come
back with us now?'

Can't, my dear. Dolly wants to drive roimd
the lake, and then I must take her home for her
tea.'

You can send one of the grooms with the
child;

No, I won't. I promised to take her myself,
and 1 Avould not disappoint little Dolly for
anything you could give me.'

^ Then you won't come V

Kate's dark eyes were large with pleading,
her tone was hurt, but unusually gentle. Why
did Rufus not know she really wanted him, her

heart was angrily crying ont ; in former days —
not so Ions; aro — his obedience to her least

vigo

whims had been a proverbial joke. She was
secretly appealing to him now, unless he was
too blind and stupid to understand, not to
shame her before Cyril Vyvian, — to do her
bidding.

Then you won't come V

No ; not now. You and Vyvian can keep
each other company. You were always such
good friends, you are sure not to quarrel. Now
then, Dolly we're off. Pull up, pony.' And
away went Rufns, hight-hearted and cheery, his
mind so engrossed with his present charge that
Kate's request bad made little or no impression
upon him. He little guessed what a cup of
bitterness he left his wife to drink. As in a
flash of lightning, the woman who stood looking
-after him realized that, as he had been so little
to her, now she in turn Alas far, far less to him.

Have I lost him, too V was her thought, as
she remained almost paralysed for a moment or
two with surprise and indignation.

But, if Rufus did not read all this, another

beside her did. Cyril Vyviaii, lier former victim,
observed, with a tone of sightly amused satisfaction,


Ah I Mrs. O'Brien, you see the old adage
comes true. If you will not when you may,
Avhen you will, you shall have nay. Have you
no willing slave left — where is Ramsay?'

Gone I As I wish you were, too. I hate

yuii ' burst out Kate. Then she turned and

k-ft him.

Cyril, however, stayed on, and had afternoon
tea with Violet and a stable-chat with O'Brien,
who returned quite uuAvittiug* of his grievous
fault. And so the days went on, but Rufus
could not help noticing the altered demeanour
both of Violet and his wife. Though a good,
kind-hearted man, ho was, as far as women Avere
concerned, intensely stupid and dense. He had
some sort of vague idea that Violet cared for
Jack, and that something unpleasant had passed
between them, Jut, if ever he tried with awkward
kindness to gain any information from
Violet on this point, she had invariably changed
the conversation; nor had Kate assisted him,

always answering petulantly and telling him to
'mind his own business and not interfere in
things he knew nothing about.' Still the depressed
state of both women was apparent even
to his perceptions. At last, a happy thought
struck him. Women, he argued, always wanted
excitement of some sort, and, hunting being
over, there was not much to amuse them down
at Forde. That was it ! they both missed their
hunting. If they could only hear the sound of
the horn and the iiote of a hound once more,
they would both brisk up. And so he turned
matters over in his mind, till one day, after religiously
spelling through the columns of his
Field, and reading of the doings of other, hounds,
a brilliant idea struck him — why should not
they start a pack of otter-hounds at Forde?
Maturer consideration, however, showed this
impracticable, for the very good reason that the
necessary animal to hunt did not exist in the
neighbourhood. No, this would not do, so he
went off to the kennels to have a confab with
Tom Harkholler. There he found that worthy
walking the hounds out after feeding, and soon

was deep in kennel-lore with him. After some
preliminary conversation, Tom began :

'I wanted to see you, sir, about the draft.
AVe shall have a rare good entry this year, and
must get rid of some of the old 'pounds. There
are several with their toes down, and stifled,
and, as we have plenty of their blood in the
kennel, it is no good keeping them.'

At this moment a man came up to Tom, to
ask for the loan of a couple of terriers to
draw a badger. Then the thought flashed into
Rufus' brain that these old hounds might be
utilised to hunt badgers with, and have one
more season's sport before they were despatched
to the happy hunting-grounds. He had heard
of such a thing being done before, and, though
he knew old Tom would hardly see the force
of pursuing the chase on foot — for the country
now, in all the leafy glories of budding summer,
was too blind to ride over — he yet hoped he
would assent to the proposal, if approached
judiciously ; and so thus began :

Look here, Tom, I have an idea about this
draft. Miss Vyvian is missing her hunting very

VOL. II. F

much — for yon know how much she loves
hounds — so why shouldn't we hunt badgers
with them r

The old huntsman gazed at him in blank
astonishment, as he replied,

'Int badgers ! And how, in 'Even's name,
is anyone to ride over a country at this time of
the year, sir V

'No one talked about riding, Tom. What I
propose is this. That we should form these
hounds into a badger-pack. I'll hunt them,
and Ned the second whipper-in shall turn them
to me.'

'Well, well, sir, as you and Miss Vyvian
please ; but please don't ask me to go running
and tumbling about in the dark after 'em. I'm
getting an oldish man now, sir, and though —
thank God — I can still 'aunt a fox and cheer a
'ound, I don't know anything of the ways of
them stinking vermin, badgers.'

Seeing the old man did not view the proposal
with much favour, Rufus wisely said no more
on the subject, and, after a little desultory

talk and settling what hounds were to be
drafted, bid him good-evening, and walked back
up to the house, old Tom soliloquising to himself,
as he watched his retreating form,

'Me 'aunt them beastly brutes! and on foot
too. I'll see you somewhere first, Mr. O'Brien !
Besides, it's a insult to a fox-ound, asking of
'im to do such a thing.'

That evening, after an unusually silent meal,
the trio were sitting in the drawing-room.
Violet was pretending to read, though her
thoughts were straying far away to Jack.
Kate lay back in an easy-chair, and was gazing
listlessly into the fire, whilst Rufus fidgeted
about the room.

At last he broke out :

What is the matter ^vith you two ? You
both seem awfully down. You want something
to 'liven you up, I'm sure ; so I've got an
idea.'

Kate gazed languidly up at the burly fond
of her husband, who, for the purpose of delivering
his words of wisdom, had taken up that

r2

position so clear to the British male, viz., with
his back to the fire, and a coat-tail inter each
arm.

With an effort, Violet roused herself, knowing
anything Rufus might suggest was dictated
by pure kindliness of heart ; and, though
she disavowed, nth a faint smile, that her
spirits were drooping, asked him what his
proposal might be.

Well,' he replied, turning towards her, ' I've
been having a talk with old Tom about what
hounds must be drafted this season ; and there
are at least five or six couple that must go — old
Foxglove, Baneful, Lavish, and Careless have all
got toes down ; Pillager, Ransom, and Watchful
are stifled ; Lapwing, Saladin, and Beauty can't
run up, and then there are about two couple
and a half more that are no good. Now, my
idea is this : that, as we can't hunt foxes in
summer, let's form a badger-pack, and hunt
badgers ! I daresay, I can get a couple or two
of old hounds from other packs ; and I know
old Jellybag will let me have some of his old
harriers. Anyhow, we could scrape up some tenor

twelve couple. I'll hunt them, and Ned
shall whip-in.'

My dear Rufus, you are crazy ! Do you
imagine Violet and I are going to ride to
hounds at this time of the year — and with all
the horses thrown up for the season?' returned
Kate, moving impatiently in her chair.

There you go, old woman, rushing to conclusions,
as usual,' laughed Rufus, good-humoured.
'Who ever said anything about
riding V

Well, but how are we to see any of the
sport, if we don't ride f questioned Violet.

Why, on your ten toes, bead !'
But do you mean to run, too V

'And why not? But, come now, mil you
agree to try the experiment ? It is night-work,
or rather peep-o'-day work; but I think it will
be rather good fun.'

Violet meditated for a moment, and then, with
the practical knowledge of hunting inherent iu
her, said,

*I have no objection, but suppose you get on
the line of a fox, how are you going to stop

hounds? We shall have no end of cabs killed,
and if that happens, I'll never forgive you,' she
added, laughingly.

0, I've thought of all that,' was the reply.
I don't intend we should disturb any part of
the country where there are foxes, but go down
beyond Seacombe, and hunt the country by the
sea. You know we never find there, as old
Cockshot is fonder of pheasants than foxes, and
so we can do no harm. It's a fine, rough, wild
country, and we are sure of sport. We can all
drive there and put up at the little inn, and
have a rare good time of it.'

This last argument was a clincher, and so it
was definitely settled that Rufus should have
his way. Violet, as she wished him good-night,
laughingly addressed him as the new M.B.H.
(Master of Badger-hounds), and extracted a
promise from him that he should present her with
the first badger killed, stuffed in the form of a
footstool.

So armed with Violet's authority, and by the
exercise of a little judicious tact, Rufus eventually
so far overcame Tom Harkholler's objections

as to induce him to join in the sport, and
take the hounds on to Seacombe, accompanied
by Ned, the second whipper-in, a lithe, active
young man, who had entered with zest into the
proposal.

CHAPTER V.

BADGER-HUNTING.

By degrees, some twelve couple of hounds of
various sorts and sizes had been got together.

Seacombe was a small fishing-village on the
coast, fourteen or fifteen miles distant from
Forde. It was a quiet, sleepy, little spot, nestling
snugly on one side of a wooded combe, amid
red, brush-covered cliffs that towered high
above on each side. A little stream ran through
the combe towards the sea, splashing and
gurgling over moss-grown rocks and boulders
into quiet pools below, whilst masses of ferns
hung their graceful feathery fronds o'er the
limpid water, and seemed to bend down to kiss

it in loving greeting. Below the village was a
little bay, formed by sandstone cliffs, clothed
here and there with scant patches of grass and
the sea-loving thrift. On the shingly beach,
upon which the surf broke with a dull monotonous
roar, a number of picturesque fishing-boats
were drawn up, whilst long lines of netting hung
up to dry on posts and poles set up for the purpose,
betokened the chief industry of the inhabitants.
Altogether it was a calm and peaceful
spot, one of many on our southern coast —
such as artists and repose-loving folk love — and
with the exception of a few such votaries, and
an occasional reading-party, Seacombe was not
much troubled by visits from the outer world of
mankind. It lay wide of the Marshwood Vale
country, in fact on its extreme border, and from
the impracticability of its fences, the smallness of
its enclosures, and the known aversion to foxes
of the resident squire — one Mr. Cockshot, a
wealthy parvenu, who took no interest in hunting
— was seldom visited by Violet's hounds.

The cliffs and surrounding country were
regular strongholds of badgers, and this, with

the improbability of getting on the Hne of a
fox, had caused Rufns to select the place for his
debut as a badger-huntsman.

Accordingly one lovely night towards the
middle of June, about twelve o'clock, the Forde
Manor party, joined by Cyril Vyvian, the
Blatherwicks, and a few others, started for
Seacombe. Rufus had managed to put four
horses together, and was to handle the ribbons.
It was a lovely moonlight night, and as the two
bays, chestnut, and a grey, that formed the
team, settled down into their places, and rattled
along at a good twelve miles an hour trot,
Violet felt her spirits rise. The night air was
fresh and crisp, as it crept through the tree-tops
and stirred them gently, whilst from every bank
and hedgerow the sweet fragrance of wildflowers
floated upwards. Bats flitted here and
there, busy in quest of insect prey, and the only
sounds audible were the bark of some sheep-dog
by a distant cottage, or the harsh weird note
of a night-jar, as it floated by in its moth-like
flight. Horses invariably go well at night, to
which rule Rufus' team were no exception, and

there was something cheery and exhilarating as
their hoofs rang merrily with rhythmical precision
on the road. Cyril too, who was a good
performer on the coaching-horn, had brought
his ' yard [of tin ' with him, and [enlivened the
party with an occasional solo. Altogether, none
suffered from sleepiness, and, despite the fact
that no repose awaited them that night, seemed
all bent on keen enjoyment ; and in this even
Kate seemed to participate.

There is something in the influence of the
cool night air, particularly when combined with
the prospect of a novel kind of sport, that stirs
even the most lethargic dispositions, and all
the occupants of the drag were in the highest
of spirits.

The road for a short distance was comparatively
level, but after a bit led up over
some wooded hills, where the dark shadows of
sombre fir-trees and towering elms flickered
and danced across the road. As they advanced,
these constant rises and depressions
necessitated a slower rate of progress, and it
was close on two o'clock ere Rufus pulled up at

the little village inn. This rejoiced in the
name of * The Quiet Woman,' and the sign-post,
consisting of a headless lady roughly delineated,
afforded an explanation of its curious
nomenclature. As Violet, Kate, Mrs. Blather-wick,
and one or two other ladies alighted and
disappeared within the hospitable portals of the
Quiet Woman,' in order to divest themselves
of their wraps, lights flashed here and therefrom
cottage windows up the tiny village street,
showing that the arrival of the party and the
strange sound of a coaching-horn had awakened
the sleepy inhabitants to a sense that something
unusual was occurring in their midst. The
hounds had come by a shorter route, and were
waiting the arrival of the party at a spot about
a mile-and-a-half away. The ladies soon reappeared
in short skirts and tight-fitting jackets,
armed with stout sticks, and well set-up for a
early morning's scramble across country, and
then the little band set off to walk to the meet,
followed by sundry of the fisher-folk impelled by
motives of curiosity.

Leaving the village, a sharp climb up a stony

wiiidiug path that led through a mass of scrubs
oak brought them to the top of the cHfifs which
sloped downwards to the sea. This was a
noted resort of badgers, and the ground for some
distance around was honey-combed by their
earths. The fresh soil drawn out showed that
they were well used, but a substantial faggot
stuffed into each hole, with a stout stake driven
through it, denoted plainly that Rufus' orders
about stopping had been carefully attended to.
Badgers, as everyone knows, are night-feeding
animals, and only leave their earths when the
shades of evening close in, and so the labour
of stopping not only these earths, but several
others for some surrounding distance, had entailed
no inconsiderable toil. Mr. Cockshot's
keeper, however, — with the prospect of a * tip,'
and having been judiciously well buttered by
the diplomatic Ned, to whom all arrangements
had been entrusted, — had done his work welland
there seemed Httle prospect if a badger
were once found, of his getting to ground.
After following the line of the cuffs a little way,
the path diverged across some corn-fields the

green blades of which were sprouting luxuriantly
from the rich soil, and soon a group of pedestrians
standing by a farm-house near a wood,
with one solitary horseman among them,
denoted the try sting-place.

What a strange scene it was ! The white
walls of the old farm-house, partly shadowed by
a tangled growth of ive and creepers, shone
out in strong contrast to the dark clearly-cut
outlines of the tall leafy elms that surrounded it
and the sombre depths of the covert in rear that
cast long shadows on the grass-fields, now
looking white in the pale moonlight. In the
distance hedgerows growing on high banks, and
other trees, gradually faded into dim silhouettes
enveloped in shrouds of mist that rose from
each brook and streamlet in the valley beyond.
Away" seaward the moon shone out with brilliant
effulgence, touching with mellow light rock
and wave, and gleaming on the white sails of
some small ships far out on the horizon. It was
a scene to be felt as well as viewed, and more
than one of the party inwardly asked themselves
why they had hitherto missed so much

enjoyment by over-attention to the demands of
the drowsy god Somnus.

Violet was strangely fascinated by the scene,
and standing a little apart with Cyril drank in
every surrounding detail with mute and overpowering
admiration.

How very, very lovely it all is !' she murmured,
a soft light coming into her eyes. Ah ! what
would she not have given had one other been
there to enjoy it with her I

Yes,' answered Cyril, ' it is. How much we
miss by keeping such late hours. Do you know,
Violet, I'd give a great deal to be able to paint
this scene, with just one figure in the foreground,
with the moonlight falling on it ;' and
he looked tenderly at the girl, who was the
nearest approach to a friend and sister he had
ever known.

Who might that be ?' broke in Kate's voice
at his elbow, laughingly. ' Old Tom, I suppose
; though I don't think, from the sour expression
on his face, he'd be quite in keeping
with this bit of Arcady.'

Cyril gave a little dry laugh, and turned

away with a look of annoyance on his face at
having his dreamy reverie thus interrupted by
the woman who had not so long ago laughed at
his feelings for her with derision.

In the meantime, Rufus had been having a
conversation with Mr. Cockshot's keeper about
the most likely place to find, and futilely endeavouring
to persuade old Tom to accompany
them on foot ; but the only response he got from
that worthy, whom his midnight jog had by no
means improved in temper, was, ' No, thanked,
sir, no thanked ; I ain't a-going' to break my neck
a-runnin' down these ere 'ills. I'll just sit on my
boss, and watch you 'aunt your badger. And,'
he added, sarcastically, ' maybe I might learn a
wrinkle or two !'

Another quarter-of-an-hour, and then it will
be dawn ; so Eiifus, after calling to Violet, and
preceded by Mr. Cockshot's keeper, moves off.
They are to throw off near a strong head of
earths, and try to hit a drag from thence, and
pass across a couple of grass-fields to do so.
The hounds and men seem like spectres in the
dim half-light that precedes the dawn, for the

glimmer of stars and the waning beauty of the
moon have gradually become less.

At last, as they neared the earths, there was
a feathering of sterns and a mute thrill of excitement
seemed to shoot through the pack like
an electric shock, showing that something was
on foot. Old Pillager threw his tongue in no
undecided manner, Watchful, Lapwing, and
Careless joined in to proclaim a find. Guider
(one of Mr. Jellybag's harriers) added his testimony,
and then, with a crash and drive, the
whole body of the pack took up the chorus.

'Hic to Pillager; hic together! hic I'
cheers Rufus, his great jolly face beaming with
excitement as he prepares for the somewhat
difficult task of running after hounds over rough
ground in an uncertain light. The white forms
of the hounds show out dimly as they crash
through the tall hazel-grown bank that divides
the field they are in from a wide expanse of
wild, undulating country. Over a rolling stretch
of heather and gorse hounds run on at im-diminished
speed, tailing somewhat, though, in
the process. Ned is well up with them, his

VOL. II. G

slim, active figure being more suited for running
than that of Rufus, who is toiling along behind.
Thus they run along the side of a hill, some
half-way down it ; the rest of the field, with
the exception of a few enthusiasts, keeping up
parallel with them on the top.

And now dawn is breaking ; all animate
creation in sky and on earth begins to wake up
and move. Larks, those bright messengers of
day,' soar upwards trilling forth their sweet
paean of praise ; from copse and meadow, thrush
and blackbird burst forth into song ; chaffinches
flit hither and thither chirping cheerily; lapwings
dash about overhead in their curious
gyrating flight, uttering an alarmed cry, whilst
the cuckoo adds his spring note to the volume
of bird melody. The cry of the hounds sounds
merrily as they press on intoxicated with the
delights of the — to them — novel scent of a new
description of prey. Far away in the east a
faint streak of light appears which gradually
deepens into a flush of pinkish pearly gi'ey ;
this again in its turn melts into a flood of glorious
light as Phoebus rises in all his might.

glancing in golden splendour on the rugged
cliffs, touching up with his rays the tiny wavelets
far out at sea that seem to dance and
scintillate with joy at his warm matutinal kiss.
White sea-birds are wheeling and floating overhead,
screaming as they swoop down on their
finny prey beneath. As the sun gets higher and
higher, the mists disperse ; * the shadows flee
away,' and hillside and wood emerge from the
soft and dubious light of night into the more
perceptible though perhaps garish one of day.

Yes, it was a glorious sight, and Violet's and
even Kate's spirits, as they felt the soft pure
breath of morning, rose involuntarily. But now
hounds turn to their right, and slip down into
the valley, over deep rich pastures where the
cattle stand chewing the cud of contentment,
revelling in the sweet fresh grass. Then at
last a fellow brings down the noses of the pack.
Slowly and patiently they puzzle out the line
across this, and reach a road. Here they are
at fault, and can carry the scent no further.

Now is the time fen* Rufus to make his cast.
Had he been hunting a fox, he would of course

G 2

have held hounds forward, but with a badger it
might be different. The sun was now well up,
and the dew, that had for the last twenty minutes
been all in favour of scent, was now rapidly
vanishing ; he was certainly perplexed, and was
debating in his mind what to do — should he hold
hounds on, down the road, up the road, forward
or back ? — when at last from a little knoll
by a wooded dingle a shrill holloa was borne on
the breeze. All the Marshwood Vale hounds
cocked their ears at the well-known voice, and
broke away with a cry. Yes, it was old Tom,
and they knew it.

*Hark halloa! hark halloa! hark halloa!'
screamed Rufus and Ned together, cracking
their whips, as the pack stream away towards
their old huntsman. Tom sits on his horse with
cap held high in air, looking like an equestrian
statue in the clear morning light, and
hounds soon catch sight of him.

Yooi over in there, Pillager, old man. Yooi
in. Careless, good bitch,' cheers the old man, as
the leading hounds dash up to him, waving them
into cover where he has seen the badger enter.

Dashed if it's bad fin, after all,' ho says to
himself, catching the enthusiasm of the sport,
as the pack crash their way through bramble
and fern, making the depths of the dingle re-echo
with their cry. Music, 'tis said, hath
charms to soothe the savage breast.' This maybe
so, but we dare aver more, and state as a
positive fact that, however cross, worried or
annoyed a man may be, the music of a pack of
hounds, an he have the slightest dash of sporting
blood running in his veins, will dispel all
traces of sorrow, wrath, or annoyance, and
make life generally appear more cheery and
bright. So it was with the worthy huntsman.
Quick as lightning he instinctively made up his
mind where he would go were he the badger
(and this was pretty much what the badger
thought). Be certainly should not break and
face the open country with all this infernal din
resounding in his ears — and then that awful
apparition in boots and breeches ! it was enough
to frighten any decent, repose-loving animal
out of his wits! No, no open country for him.
He would just scramble along over the rocks

and loose stones, then through the stream at the
bottom of the dingle, till he reached yonder
gorse — this would shelter and hide him from
view, and he then could shuffle along that high
double bank till he reached the top of the next
hill — and then, ah ! then he could laugh at them
all, for another couple of fields (all down-hill
too) would land him at his doorstep, at the top
of the cliffs by the sea, where they all might
yell and howl themselves hoarse before they
would see Mm again !

These thoughts were also uppermost in old
Tom's mind. All his ideas about not riding to
hounds at this time of the year seemed to vanish,
and, turning the stout cob, he rode at a
great, green, bush-grown bank. With a 'Come
hup, loss !' he crashed in and crashed out ; an
open gate at the end of the next field, and an
easy gap or two rewarded him, for he caught
up hounds as they emerged from the end of
the dingle and ascended the steep gorse-grown
hill on their left.

On hearing Tom's holloa, Violet, Mrs. Blather-wick
and Kate had all been going to it, indeed

the two latter had set off running for that purpose
; but Cyril, whispering to Violet, ' Hold hard
for a moment,' induced her to stay. Presently,
noticing Tom's movements, he said, * We need
not go down there, let us run on here,' and, Violet
consenting, they both set off at a round trot.
Subsequent events proved them right, for, after
a run of about a mile, during which they had
to scramble over innumerable high hazel and
bramble-grown banks which necessitated Cyril's
giving Violet a helping hand, and lifting her
down — a to him by no means unpleasant duty —
they reached the high-road that ran along the
top of the cliffs. Pulling up for an instant to
regain their breath, they saw a little dark form
scramble over the bank some hundred yards
down the road and shuffle across.

There he is !' whispered Violet, panting with
excitement and from the effects of her run ;
don't holloa, though,' she added, as the cry of
the hounds came nearer and nearer.

They were running well, and she was too
good a sportswoman to interfere with hounds by
hollowing and getting their heads up. Across

the road hounds dash eagerly, their hackles
bristling for blood, only two hundred yards
behind their quarry — then over the opposite
fence and away they stream up the rough grass-field
that bounds the line of cuffs. Alas,
for the poor badger ! the well-known refuge was
closed to him, no time to dig himself in with
that awful cry resounding in his ears. He must
make one more effort. Some half-mile further
on there is a nice cool drain where ere now
when belated after some midnight ramble he
has found a pleasant lodging ; so with failing
strength he shuffles off, threading his way over
a stunted thorn and gorse-grown common.

Rough, rough, rough V sound old Pillager's
and Saladin's deep notes. * Yap, yap, yap !'
go the terriers, as they get closer and closer to
him.

Oh ! this is awful I' mutters the poor badger
to himself. ' Will these fiends nevers let me
alone ? I wish to goodness I had not eaten all
those young rabbits I dug out last night. I

can't go any further, so, d n it, I'll stay

here and fight it out, and die as a badger

should die,' and with this resolve he crept in
under a thick thorn-bush. He has not to wait
long ; nearer and nearer comes that awful cry,
added to by the cheers of the biped pursuers,
till at last he can stand it no longer and bolts
out. Ransom, Bounty, and Careless catch
a view, and in another moment badger and
hounds go tumbling over and over in a confused
heap. Snap — scrunch — snarl !' and then
a cry of ' Pen-an-ink !' as the foremost hounds to
grip him go limping off, bearing the mark of
his keen white teeth. He is up and on his legs
in a moment, and off again. Then commences
a running fight. Hounds do not understand the
game, and can make but little impression on
that tough skin ; besides, the badger keeps his
head and neck bent well down over his only
vulnerable spot, to wit, his chest. Tom has
now come up and jumped off his horse, leaving
that estimable quadruped to take care of himself,
as he whoops, and holloa, and cheers on the
pack ; but it is of no good, and even the hounds
that were keenest at first now seem to fight shy
of tackling their plucky foe.

Violet does not like it. It was all very well
when the keen excitement of the chase was
upon her, but she cannot bear to see this apparently
useless worry going on, and her tender
woman's nature rebels against inflicting unnecessary
pain.

Oh ! why can't they kill the poor thing V she
appeals to Cyril. But Cyril is as much a novice
at this game as are all the rest, and it is not till
Rufus comes panting up that any steps are
taken to end the tragedy. Under his directions
Ned, while one of the periodical worries is
going on, loops the thong of his hunting-whip
round one of the badger's hind-legs, and then,
twisting it up tight, holds him up in the air,
while the pack bay round him ; then Rufus hits
the poor wriggling beast one sharp cut across
the nose, and his troubles are o'er.

Who-whoop I' he shouts, holding him up
above the baying pack, ' who-whoop, tear 'im
and eat 'im,' and with this he throws the carcase
high in the air. In a moment the pack are
swarming and struggling over their dead enemy
like a hive of bees, tugging and pulling at his

tough bide with all the fury of pent-up feelings
of revenge.

At last the obsequies arc performed and the
party return to Seacombe ; and, as old Tom gets
his hounds together preparatory to moving off
home, he turns to Rufus, and, with a touch of
his cap and a merry twinkle in his eye, says,

Well, sir, 'taint such bad fun, after all, and I
don't mind if 1 do have another turn at it some
day ; only,' he adds, ' I'm jiggered if you'd a'
killed your badger if 1 'ain't a' 'helped you !'

CHAPTER VI.

AT THE Healthiest.

It was the last week of June, and Violet Vyvian
found herself staying in London and in the
thick of most of its gaieties for a fortnight.

An invitation had come rather unexpectedly
from the family of two former school-friends.
Perhaps the Vereker girls wanted to repay an
exciting visit to Forde Manor last winter ; when
they had hunted more than ever before in their
lives, and looked up to Violet as the most happy,
lucky, and altogether adorable girl of their
acquaintance, something between Diana, Kate
Coventry, and the pleasant school-fellow they
had all liked. Perhaps Mrs. Vereker had an

eye to future days, when her eldest sou might
succeed — after the deaths of a grandfather and
an intervening uncle — one never knows! to a
title.

Anyhow, Violet welcomed the offer of a break
from the monotonous, yet so changed, life at
Forde. She had disregarded some regretful
allusions of Kate O'Brien's to the former summer,
when they went up to town together,
Violet taking rooms for both, and being chaperoned
by her friend. Last year was very different.
Now they might meet Jack Ramsay —
and Violet evinced from the thought of even
seeing him, by merest chance, when at Kate's
side.

Kate, in truth, had an equal longing to so
confront him ; to hurt him, if by no other means
to move the young man's feelings. But, seeing
Miss Vyvian's reluctance to take such hints,
some pride left helped her to keep silent, and
she endured her seclusion as best she might.

After all, Kate reflected, Ramsay might not
be in town just then ; gunners have not perpetual
leave. Violet said the same to herself,

and believed she even hoped so. But, nevertheless,
she did, by purest chance, see him ; and
it was on this wise :

One evening, when all agreed they were tired
of hot theatres and crushes, and were not going
to any dance, Violet's hosts and a party of
friends dined at the Health Exhibition, to enjoy
a special fete in the Horticultural Gardens afterwards.


Towards ten o'clock, when the summer night
was dark, and myriads of fairy electric lights
of all colours Avere twinkling in the trees and
outlying the flower-beds, it was a charming
scene. Then the great fountain shot up into a
high, snowy-white column that broke into
smoke-like spray. It died away, but softly
mounted again higher and still higher, but this
time rosy, as if bathed in sunset light ; next, it
changed into a succession of ever-different hues.

Violet, though now far from easily stirred to
real pleasure, and forcing her gaiety of late
at all parties, was delighted with the sight.
The Grenadier Guards' band was playing behind
her among the trees. (How well, afterwards,

she recalled the very ah' !) The fountain
ceased once more ; then, for the last time,
it welled up higher than ever before, as it
seemed, in a tide of crimson : a great blood-red
spire of wavering colon* against the night-sky,
that was of a veiled, mysteriously luminous,
greyish blue.

How beautiful !' came from Violet's lips ;
and the wish rose into her mind — as always
lately, when any scene aroused her interest or
admiration — ' If only he were here now, beside
me, and that all had been different !'

At that very minute, she sav the man after
whom her thoughts were yearning.

There was an open space in front of where
Violet and the Vereker party sat, that was
brightly illuminated for a few yards by electric
light. All around was shadow under the trees.

Out of the semi-darkness Jack Ramsay came,
with a group of two or three friends, right
across the lighted area. There was no mistaking
that tall, straight figure from the first
glimpse she caught of him in the crowd.
Violet started violently in her chair, then her

heart began throbbing hard. He was walking
slowly — listlessly, she fancied — with a very
pretty, well-bred looking woman. The latter was
smart, and charmingly dressed, so Violet's feminine
observation told her in that brief space of
time.

Three or four steps, and they were quite
close ! Violet could have touched Jack's arm,
he passed so near. Would he see her in the
doubtful light ? His name rose to her lips ;
it seemed for a brief second too hard to forbear
uttering it. The trial of seeing him so near —
yet so far removed — was greater than the poor
girl could have ever believed possible ; it was
bliss, yet exquisite torture, to behold him again,
even thus, when

The pretty woman, just as they approached,
looked right up in Jack's face with an expression
of deepest interest, and surely of a warmer
feeling ! saying something (but Violet, though
listening with all her powers, could not catch
what it was), with a half-injured, laughing air,
as in mock reproach.

Unconsciously Violet held her breath, strained

lier ears to keenest intensity to Lear Jack's
answer just as he passed by.

And Jack, turning his head slightly, gave
from his superior height a downward answering
look at his bewitching companion, with — oh,
heavens I — the same glance of affection in his
dark-gi'ey eyes that Violet knew so well ; while
the old sudden smile, that had so often made
her heart rejoice with silent singing, broke like
momentary sunshine over the otherwise almost
stern regularity of his manly features.

What nonsense !' he said, in that tone of
chiding fondness a man uses towards a child,
or a woman he loves. If she had not remembered
every inflection of his voice, that had
once sounded so honest and true in her ears, so
musical and deep, the unguessed listener might
not have distinguished the words. ' You know
I am always as happy as I ever can be, Avhen I
am with you.'

Two more steps or so, and they passed into
the further shadow of the trees with the moving-crowd,
and were lost to view.

Behind them, the watcher had turned sick at

VOL. ir. II

heart from that momentary sight ; the words she
heard seemed to have fallen like lead upon her
consciousness. As in a dream, Violet knew that
Major Ball also went by after his friend, talking
to two other men. She used to think him a
harmless and amusing little mortal, but now his
excitable old-boyish voice sounded so odiously
chattering, she vaguely wondered that anyone
could endure him. At the same moment, one
of the Seeker girls exclaimed beside her,

'What a handsome man that Alas who has
just passed us ! — the tall one, with the lady in
white and yellow. Did any one of you see
him V

Did we V answered another voice of the
party. ' I should rather think so. Why, he
looks one in a thousand ! I'd give my eyes to
know him. Miss Vyvian, did you notice him V

— yes,' returned Violet, mechanically.

The Guards' band was still playing its same
delicious strains, but she did not listen. The
coloured lights still glistened around in the
branches like great fireflies, or burned like
big glowworms on the grass, but they had

no more attraction for one pair of lovclurn
maiden's eyes.

That is how Ave usually meet in after-life
those we have loved and been parted from.
One moment they appear to onr eyes once more
in the great procession of liinnan life that is
always moving on, on around us, and we
therewith, to the grave. One look ! no more ;
then they pass out of sight again. But that
one look, that single momentary A-ision, may
leave a bitterness behind which sweeps away
all the cherished memories, the fond illusions,
and maybe, too, our patience and resignation,
the fruit of weary sorrowing weeks, or even
years.

So with Violet. She could know nothing of
what Ramsay had thought and felt of late — as
little as of what would happen to him in coming
days. Only, having seen him, lier heart swelled
while she bitterly thought,

lie is quite happy ! . . . . What a fool I
have been — and I once thought him so true I
Nothing seems true but what is bad or sorrowful
— nothing matters.'

As they rose soon and turned towards the
lighted glass front of the exhibition, some of
the party called on Miss Vyvian to admire the
pond, where fairy-like lights seemed shining in
the hearts of sleeping water-lilies. But her
enthusiasm had turned cold.

You are tired, dear ; or perhaps you have a
headache,' whispered one of her friends later,
noticing that Violet looked pale and strange.

She forced a laugh.

'Not at all. I was not myself, perhaps, a
little while ago ; but I am quite well now.'

CHAPTER VIT.

FOR AULD LANG SYNE.

During the next two or three days, Violet, in
the Seekers' opinion, began to enjoy herself
highly. She talked so unceasingly, laughed at
the smallest joke, was ready for everything in
the way of amusement, and never wanted to be
still a moment.

What energy you have ! You will exhaust
yourself quite before going back to the country
; positively, Violet, you are my idea of perpetual
motion,' expostulated one of the Vcreker
girls, when Violet, after dancing till daylight atone
of the best balls of the season, scented the
idea of going to bed, and, after taking:; a bath

instead, went out for an early gallop to freshen
her up, she said, in the company of the son of
the house.

Bonny Vereker had hit exactly on her guest's
secret wish.

If I only could quite exhaust myself,' thought
poor Violet. She wanted to be so tired that
sleep might come the instant her weary head
touched the pillow ; by day she must be too
busy to have a moment to think. To herself
her own talk seemed pointless chatter ; often she
caught herself saying utter nonsense mechanically',
with her mind far away (down in the
Forde woods). Her laughter was such a forced
mirthless sound in her own ears, she scornfully
wondered it deceived anyone.

Young Vereker was so taken with Violet's
riding that he persuaded her to ride with him
and his sister every morning in the Park. This
was what Violet liked best. She felt most at
home in the saddle, and enjoyed the secretly
flattering knowledge that, however other girls
she met might surpass her in absolute loveliness,
in high position, in fortune, too — since the

world's best all comes to our great world-market
of London — on horseback, at least, there
were few, if auy, to whom she could not have
shown the way. A sudden longing for excitement,
a spirit of emulation seized upon her. If
she had been a man, Violet would have gambled
during those days ; being a woman, she flirted.

Flirting goes surely by comparison. An
amount of admiration that was to Kate O'Brien
only as the breath of her nostrils was somewhat
strong incense to Violet. It would not turn her
head. An open-faced, honest-hearted, good
specimen of an English girl she would remain ;
but the chances were that she might grow disgusted
with the game. All her nature really
asked was a love she could openly claim and
return in the eye of day ; and she liked to have
men-friends, too. To go out deliberately on the
war-trail, for scalps that were a useless prize, had
no real fascination for her.

However, Miss Vyvian, as was said before, took
decided pleasure for the present in finding that
men were eager to vie with each other for the
chance of a turn or two down the Row beside

her on horseback. She heard that her horsemanship
was considered, by a good many, one
of the morning sights ; and enjoyed noticing that
she was often pointed out by some of the crowd
walking up and down this fashionable treadmill,
as the M.F.H. of the Marshwood Vale hounds,
while admiring eyes as frequently followed her.
Violet grew insensibly a little harder in her
manner ; her talk became slightly horsey with
the men who came round her.

When the girl returned to lunch and slipped
off her habit, she felt depressed, and disliked
herself, remembering her morning conversation,
and how she had entered into hunting and
stable subjects with a sporting zeal that so short
a while ago she would have detested in another
woman. 'As if hunting were the business of
life, instead of being only one of our chief
pleasures,' she used to say, when told with
rather wondering admiration that no one had
ever accused her of being horsey, or vainglorious
of her singular situation as a young woman.
Indeed, Violet rather prided herself on her quietness
of manner in the hunting-field as in the

drawing-room. Yet, surely, few of her sex evermore
keenly enjoyed the pleasure of a good
hunting-run, the glorious exhilaration of a fast
forty minutes, when mounted on a first-rate
hunter, —

Hard held, the breath of his nostrils broad,
With the golden ether blended ;
Then the leap, the rise from the springy turf,
The rush through the buoyant air,' —

all the delight of our chief national pastime,
whereof poor Gordon, the English-born poet of
Australia, so well sang.

After all,' thought Violet, dispiritedly, *I
am nothing else in the eyes of society here but
an M.F.H. It is my future lot in life, so fate
seems to point out — my raison d'etre one might
say.'

A chief reason that caused Violet's riding to
be specially remarked before that of several
other good lady-riders — however easily distinguished
she was in the crowd of queer horsewomen,
fat females in their forties, aged aristocratic
dames with nut-cracker visages and
braided hair, girls who sat all awry, or holding

on by their bridles, ill-mounted, ill-looking, or
ill-habited an assemblage, that it is often such a
wonder to see in Hyde Park — was the horse on
which young Vereker had persuaded her to trust
herself. This was a very handsome chestnut
of his own, but high-spirited and with an evil
reputation.

I want to show the fellows that a lady cadi
ride it. And, if any lady can, you are the one,'
said the young fellow, frankly.

The other young men in his regiment, one of
the Household Brigade, were always chaffing
Peggy Vereker about his purchase. When they
began to be funny on the subject he, quite
dreaded their wit, for, although the soul of good
humour, he knew himself to be a very poor rider.
Perhaps he wished to sell the beast at no great
disadvantage.

So Violet rode the chestnut, managing it
capitally, it must be said. No great fault could
be found with the animal's looks ; for standing
on good flat legs, with deep arched ribs,
good back, loins and quarters, and a lean, game,
well set-on head and neck, he was a horse sure

to attract attention anywhere, though critic
might perhaps have taken exception to his
shoulders which were a trifle straight. A close
observer, however, would have noticed a certain
showing of the whites of his eyes and a
somewhat sour expression on his face ; this
coupled with a habit of striking out behind impatiently
when kept standing still for long,
and the pale washy colour of his chestnut
coat, showed that he was not the sweetest-tempered
animal in the world. When she had
ridden Capsicum, as the horse was called, two or
three days, Violet Alas disagreeably surprised
one evening by hearing a well known baa-lamb
kind of voice accosting her.

How-do, Miss Vyvian ? Glad to see you
looking so well ; nothing like a little thine in
London for rubbing the country rust off all of us,
is there 1 Aav, I'll take a turn with you, I think.'
And Lord Guisard coolly wheeled his horse in
beside Violet, cutting out thereby another man,
tor they had all halted at the top of the ride to
see the Princess of Wales drive in with her
three daughters, a mounted policeman having

just appeared heralding the royal victoria. His
lordship then put one finger to his hat by way
of acknowledging Bonny Vereker's bow, feebly
murmuring,

'Afraid you have made a mistake . . . have I
ever had the pleashaw ? Aw ; staying with
you last winter. Miss Vyvian ; of course — I
remember.'

Nothing could have exceeded the condescending
affability of tone with which he denoted
that Violet's acquaintances were his, though
otherwise he would have forgotten such insignificant
individuals.

Absolutely the man hould not be shaken off.
Forward and back he resolutely rode, sticking
to Violet's side like a leech, irritating her all at
once so much that she irritated the chestnut in
turn. For — suddenly Violet had perceived
some distance down the Park, at a quiet spot
under the trees, a tall solitary figure leaning on
the rails. It is not given to mans men to look
so distinguished in a frock coat and tall hat as
Jack Ramsay. Of most men so arrayed, a
woman, at least, thinks criticising,

They might not be amiss iu pink ; or in 
; or in rough shooting-clothes and
knicker-lockers ;' for surely there was seldom or
never in all history a gala costume worn by the
male sex, in which any personal advantages of
the man over his fellows were less apparent than
in the fashionable, stiff, black garb of nowadays.
But even in it Ramsay still showed Lis superiority.
He would have looked handsome in a
smock-frock and penny chip-hat ; in a miner's
rough garments, begrimed with toil ; it mattered
little.

Immovably the figure remained there, as
they rode up and down for half-an-hour ; stayed
alone. Violet dared not look except from a
distance, lest seeming to recognise him fully she
would be obliged to bow; but yet she contrived
to know that he was watching herself.
Hoar maddening that Lord Guisard should be
beside her ! No doubt this was Jack's first
glimpse of her since that evening they parted,

and he might foolishly imagine Quite so ;

that was just what he was doing.

Over half-an-hour! would Goosey never go?

Violet tried to be as rude as her nature was
capable of allowing her to be. But she might as
-well have tried to prick a pachyderm with a pin.

Nearly an hour gone by ! and still the solitary
figure remained there watching.

Meantime, the chestnut tossed his head and
fretted and pulled till the foam-flakes were
lying on his neck. It was certainly a pretty
sight to see Violet controlling him ; but Ramsay,
watching with anxious though admiring eyes,
thought it dangerous. At last, feeling more
fretted than her mount, indeed secretly miserable,
Violet proposed going home. She thought
a good deal that night.

Next morning a ride after twelve o'clock was
under discussion.

Yes, willingly — it is much more pleasant
than in the evening,' assented Miss Vyvian. In
her own mind she thought, ' He is not likely to
be there, and so I need not be tortured by seeing
him.' Yet she was longing to do so all the
same. And, the very first time their little
cavalcade cantered down the ride, there he was
at the same spot.

Capsicum was full of caprices and high spirits
this morning. Perhaps he remembered he had
been naughty yesterday, and had then found
his rider's temper less even than usual, which
roused him to try for mastery again ; or else it
seemed poor fun to go everlastingly up and
down the same stretch of ride. Once or twice
was well enough ; the third time he grew
bored, and by way of relieving his feelings
changed his easy canter with a kick or two
into a gallop. In spite of her efforts at restraint,
Violet knew in a moment or two he meant going
at his own sweet will.

Down the ride they flashed ; the chestnut
with his head down, yawing and tearing at his
bit; Violet — sitting square in her saddle, but
immovable, and leaning well back — was doing
her best to control the headstrong brute as he
tore madly on.

The riding groups cleared in the thinking of
an eye to either side. People started up from
their seats to gaze after the pair from the rails.
Would she stop him ; would she not ?

A few seconds of real anxiety. A long-drawn
Ah !' of relief.

Far away down the reddish track of the tree-bordered
stretch people saw a man's figure
diving out from under the rails and running
towards the middle of the ride. As the horse
neared him, he tried to stop it. Madness ! — he
will only be hurt himself. Nothing to be descried
from a distance but a momentary struggling,
indistinguishable group. Then it was clear the
chestnut's runaway course was arrested. The
lady riding him Alas saved !

In the first shock of finding Capsicum's bridle
caught hold of, and seeing Jack Ramsay, bareheaded,
struggling with the horse — for he washer
rescuer — Violet could not speak. She felt
a little upset by the strain on her own arms and
nerves, for it had flashed through her mind
that she was rapidly becoming powerless,
and then it was certain there would be an
accident.

But she was still more unbounded at
seeing that handsome face looking up flushed
red with exertion, the forehead veins swelling

out visibly, his eyes alight. Jack Ramsay
stood patting the chestnut's neck till the
latter was quieted ; but he was utterly silent
save for the eagerly pleading expression of his
gaze.

TJianh you /' uttered Violet, With lips that
trembled despite herself. She had not strength
to add a single word.

Other people surrounded her at that moment
; among them young Vereker riding up ;
and Lord Guisard on foot puffing like a grampus
from a short run of a few yards. Ramsay
turned away, and picking up his tall hat that
had fallen at a little distance, brushed the earth
from it coolly, and made his way quickly out
of the Park.

He had got his reward, and from her own
hips.

After this incident, Violet was much exercised
in her own mind what course to pursue.
Should she write once again to Ramsay expressing
her gratitude ? (It must be remembered
she supposed he had taken her dismissal in total
silence. This, although it was what she had

VOL. II. I

requested him to do — instead of questioning her
decision — yet seemed very slighting on his part,
quite careless of her feelings, when one came to
think of it.)

And, now, he had placed her under an obligation
; just what she did not wish.

Yet, stay ; Violet did wish it. Yes, she decidedly
rejoiced in her heart that this opportunity
had occurred. For, see, Jack Ramsay
had behaved thoughtlessly, even cruelly towards
herself, since he ought to have known she would
never have given him her love had her eyes
been opened to his strong flirtation with her
friend. Now he had acted bravely and chivalrously.
Violet was very glad that he had so, ina
manner, righted himself; she knew he had
good, ay, noble qualities, though alas ! he was
so fickle and inconstant in affections.

Of course Lord Guisard and Peggy Vereker
both declared there had never been any real
danger — to Violet herself. They treated Jack's
conduct as rash and officious ; serve him right if
he had been knocked down ! Violet inwardly

believed she could not have stopped Capsicum
except by blessed chance, whatever they
might say, and Its, Ramsay's risk, remained the
same.

Still she hesitated for two whole daj's whether
to write or not ; telling herself they might meet
again in Rotten Row (she did not know Jack's
club), when, on the third morning, a letter put
an end to her doubts. It was from Ramsay,
who had managed to find out she was staying
with the Seekers, and it was written, not from
town, but from Aldershot :

If you think the slight service I was happy
enough to render you in the Park merits anymore
reward — though your thanks Avere quite
sufficient — will you give a home to the favourite
I value most, old Harlequin? Treat him kindly
and ride him straight for his master's sake, who,
in a few days, will be on his way to India, not
to return for several years, hoping there to forget
the wretched past.

You know all the old horse can do, so I need

l2

not tell you ; but, if I may ask one more favour,
it is not to let anyone ride him hut yourself.
You will, 1 know, grant this for auld lang syne
to—

Your true friend always,

J. Ramsay.'

Violet's heart swelled as she read this. Going
to India for several years ! Somehow the idea
came like a thunderbolt, and yet she had never
meant to see Jack Ramsay again.

Growing calmer, presently, she appreciated
Jack's thought. He was making her virtually
a farewell gift of what he most valued of his
worldly goods, and putting it as a favour to
himself That was gracefully, kindly done, like
his old self ; and — he could not be intending to
marry that other lady now, at least. Why did
he not offer her Harlequin ?

So, without hesitation this time, a little note
was written.

I will keep Harlequin very gladly, thanking

you for the loan. Some day I trust you may
return to claim and again ride yourself so good
a horse.

*V. V.

Pes. — I will send a groom to fetch him.'

■ CHAPTER Vii

A PASSAGE OP ARMS.

The day after Miss Vyvian herself returned
home to Forde Manor, arrived another and
inch-petted guest. Harlequin, Jack Ramsay's
gift, came to the stables like a king. Moorcock
was displaced from the best box to make room
for him, and in a very short time every groom
and stable-boy knew that the slightest matter
amiss with his equine majesty was certain to
bring a most rare frown on their mistress's
white brow.

He is worth looking after ; he won that race
so well,' she said, apologetically, to Rufus.

The maa on his back that knew how to ride
him did, ye mean,' was the bhnit answer.

And that night Violet played her major-domo
all his favourite tunes for an hour-and-a-half.

So Harlequin soon made acquaintance with
the best hay, oats, and straw that the Forde
Manor stables afforded. And every morning his
velvet muzzle was kissed by a pair of sweet
lips, and a brown, wavy-haired head would be
laid on his glossy neck — perhaps a tear or so,
once in a way, be dropped there warmly, at
which the horse's big dark eyes would turn
round as if with quiet surprise.

Mrs. O'Brien almost gnashed her teeth
on Harlequin's appearance, which she little
expected.

May I ask what it means, that Captain Ramsay
has sent you his horse, Violet V she asked,
turning a little pale.

It means simply that he is going to India for
several years, and as he cannot take the horse,
and does not wish to sell him, he has asked mc
to keep Harlequin meantime.'

Then you saw him in London, evidently V

Kate's voice was half-stifled with suppressed
strong feelings, her face flushed qmcldy to dark
crimson. Not only envy, jealousy, but also guilty
fears were struggling in her mind. She felt
choking ! — Had an explanation come to pass
between those two ?

I saw him, yes ; by chance. If it is any
consolation to you, I may add that he had not
even an opportunity to speak to me,' replied

Violet, coldly, but directly. ' That is all

And, now, forgive me, Kate, if I ask you to
spare me any cross-questioning on this subject.'
With that Violet left the room. The situation
was not an easy one between these two women.

I do not want to be hard on Kate, but !
how freely I should breathe, if only she would
go away for some months and leave me my
house to myself,' thought the girl. Kate's
gloomy smile, that grew ever rarer, more bitter
and melancholy, seemed to gall those on whom
it rested. It was like a constant reproach, but
one that no one felt they deserved, to see her
pale, uninterested face, and notice her lagging
step that ever grew wearier. In her heart she

was always comparing her lot with that of
Violet, quarrelling with fate, as she vaguely
termed Providence, for giving the latter such
good luck as her fortune, which of course made
trouble light to bear for her. Kate O'Brien was
one of those women bound to be unhappy
sooner or later in life, because she had no occupation
and not even a single pet pursuit.
Violet, on the contrary, stabled half-a-dozen
such hobbies ; her village school, flowers, prize
poultry, embroidery ; besides keeping up a
varied range of reading and some indifferent
sketching and music, that however served to
amuse her. All these were possible to any
woman of limited means, although horses and
hounds were unattainable luxuries. Kate had
been a charming pianist before her manage,
and possessed far superior intellectual gifts
to Violet ; but she had dropped all her accomplishments,
and now cared for none of these
things.

Poor soul ! poor soul I she is very unhappy,.
and her own worst enemy. I must be patient
with her,' mused Violet, perfectly recognising

the state of the case, and pitying as she in vain
tried to do good.

Kate O'Brien certainly needed pity. She
was eating her own heart out with hopeless
thoughts and envy. She had been mewed up
in a dull, big country-house, and moped to
death, whilst Violet was enjoying herself at
balls and parties in toAvn ; oh, it was hard !

Then the latter had seen Jack — must have
heard from him ! The only drop of comfort to
the secretly miserable woman was that nothing
seemed to have transpired concerning that
letter, which she alone knew lay upstairs in her
Japanese cabinet.

Violet was so gentle and forbearing after the
first little passage of arms concerning Harlequin,
that Kate mistakenly supposed the extended
olive-branch was a sign of repentant timidity
on her friend's part.

Violet has no spirit,' she said contemptuously
to herself. ' She is so painfully meek, it positively
tempts me to nag at her.'

Periodically, therefore, Mrs. Kate allowed herself
an outbreak of temper. These sallies generally

occurred whcQ, much against Violet's secret
"svislies, Kate accompanied her to the stables,
and watched her petting Harlequin and giving
him a carrot. The sight seemed to arouse all
the other's spitefulness. She hated to see the
good ba' horse prick his ears sharply, turning
his full, soft eyes round to seel his mistress's
caressing hand ; hated to hear him whinnying
and stamping in regret, when the last flutter
of her dress disappeared as the stable-door
clicked. Kate would have liked to pet him
equally herself, but— her pride rebelled to show
such weakness under Violet's clear, honest eyes.

To all little ebullitions of temper, however,
in spoken words or innuendoes, Miss Vyvian
turned an apparently unheeding ear, trying to
keep peace and forgive until seventy times
seven. But, presently, the muttering of the
storm her hostess had disregarded grew, unsuspected,
to such a l)lacknL'SS of wrath and
impatience in Kate's bosom that an outbreak
was imminent. It came to action on her part,
which changed the aspect of affairs.

One day, when a servant came for orders as

to what horses wonlcl be wanted, Miss Vyvian
sent word she would neither ride nor drive that
afternoon. Violet was not often afflicted with
headaches, but she had risen with one that
morning, and felt unusually depressed. It might
have been because she had lain awake too
long the night before, thinking of Jack Ramsay;
how he was, and whether he had landed
in India yet, and when, if ever, he would come
back, and she should see him again. And so,
having passed the usual time when she fell
asleep, poor Violet seemed to have lost the
trick of how to do so, and tossed from side to
side till nearly daylight. Whatever the cause,
her brain felt as if it was a hollow sphere filled
with liquid pain, that ebbed and flowed in little
waves at times, and throbbed continually at
its most quiet moments. The best of women
are apt to feel short in their temper, and desirous
to be left alone, when carrying such a headpiece
; so Violet was not sorry Avhen Kate,
rising presently, said, in an off-hand way,

Well, it's a pity you can't come out, but I
have taken rather a fancy to have a canter

myself. I'll just send word to the stables, so
you need not trouble. If you take my advice,
you'll not stir from that sofa.'

So saying, Mrs. O'Brien left Violet's morning-room,
and, meeting the butler, imperiously told
him to send out an order at once that she was
going to ride Harlequin.

Harlequin — i'm f and the man looked surprised.


'Yes, Harlequin — (Is he deaf I wonder)'
contemptuously added Kate to herself, audibly.

Then she got into her habit with feverish
baste, and hurried out, by a covered passage,
to the stables.

There is no use in giving them the trouble
of bringing round the horse thedoor,' shesaidto
herself, trying to think she wished to spare the
grooms. It was true also that Violet's morning-room
looked out on the front of the house, but
Kate was acquiring a curious habit of veiling
her own motives to herself by sophisms, and
half believed in her own excellent intention.
The head groom looked annoyed at her appearance.


The 'loss ain't saddled yet, Mrs. O'brien he
said, with a sort of respectful resentment,
Your own saddle won't fit 'im, so I've been
obliged to take it hofF; and all of the other
spare ladies-saddles are too big.'

Then put on Miss Vy van's saddle ; that will
suit me well enough.'

'And I don't consider 'Arlequin is quite well
to-day, i'm. If Mr. O'Brien had not gone
away for the day, I should have spoken to 'im
about the 'oss.^

Very well, I shall exercise him quite gently.
Miss Vyvian meant to do so herself if she had
gone out.'

Kate Alas tapping the ground angrily with
her foot. She understood perfectly that the
old groom was only raising jealous objections
because he disliked seeing anyone but Violet
on the favourite's back. Kate was not
popular among the servants at Forde. She was
too peremptory in manner, being a guest, they
considered ; and never cared what trouble she
gave. How slow and stupid the men were !
Kate's expression said so as plainly as words.

Hurt' — at last they bad fiuishecl all the fussing
about the good bay horse which she believed
they prolonged just to keep her waiting.
Harlequin had whinnied a little, then stretched
his neck and distended his eyes in surprise on
finding that a stranger meant to ride him, and
that she had brought no carrot. ' How provoking
!' thought Kate to herself, vexed that she,
who certainly cared a thousand times more for
Jack's horse than Violet, should have forgotten
this accustomed luxury. Then she found herself
in the saddle, and, with secret triumph at
having attained the coveted place on Harlequin's
back, drew the reins through her fingers,,
patted his neck, and was just preparing to ride
out of the yard, when

Stop !' said a clear, commanding voice.

Violet was standing in the courtyard, very
pale, and with a resolute look in her eyes, seldom
seen there unless when, in the hunting-field,
she was riding at some difficult or dangerous
place. She had grown weary of the sofa
to which Kate had recommended her, and, putting
on a garden-hat, strolled out, meaning to

try the effects of the open air. A mere chance
led her to the stables before seeking a favourite
shady spot in the gardens, for she wished to tell
the old coachman that she had just heard good
news of his invalid daughter, whom she had
sent to a convalescent hospital. Violet had
sauntered languidly enough into the large
paved courtyard. But now, in an instant, she
was on the alert, fire leaped to her eyes, and
the quick blood receded to her heart with a
rush, as she beheld Kate seated insolently on
Harlequin's back.

Stop !' she repeated, white with anger, yet
trying even in her surprise to control herself.
'How is it you are riding Harlequin — and without
my permission? There must be some
mistake.'

Because my own horse has been out too
often and needs a rest ; and I don't suppose you
wish to prevent me completely from riding
when I want to go out V was Kate's defiant
answer. She was unpleasantly startled by
Violet's appearance, but an angry light had
flashed into her eyes also. Possession was nine

points of the law ; she was in the saddle, and
meant to fight to retain the situation.

If yon had asked me, Kate, before going
out, either of my ponies should have been at
your service. I am sony to say so, but I cannot
lend Harlequin to you or anyone.'

And why not, pray ? Is it because no one
but yourself is good enough to ride your dear
friend Captain Ramsay's horse?' jeered Kate,
losing her head, and with a look of fury mounting
to her handsome features. ' I should think
1 have as much right to his property as you
have, and you ought to know it.'

Violet was shocked at such an altercation
taking place under the very eyes and ears of
the group of stable-men, who were watching the
scene. The sense of how terribly Kate was
forgetting all self-respect helped her wonderfully
to master her quivering nerves and answer
with grave dignity.

So long as Harlequin is in my stables, I
shall look upon him as my horse. I am really
very sorry to disappoint you, Kate, but I must
ask you to dismount. One of the ponies shall

VOL. ir. K

be saddled for you in a few minutes, whichever
one YOU please.' And Violet made a sign to
the stud-groom, saying, * Darley, Mrs. O'Brien
will ride either Darby or Joan.'

Darley, who stood suspiciously close to the
off-side of Harlequin, made a respectful groom's
gesture by raising his hand to where his hat
should be, but he kept watching Kate's eye.
She had not made the least sign towards getting
off Harlequin as yet. But now, as Violet ended,
she suddenly gave the horse a smart cut with
the whip and started towards the archway gate.
In another few moments she would have been
through it, but she found Darley running beside
her holding on to the saddle.

'Take care, Mrs. O'Brien — the girths are
loose. You'll be off in a minute.'

Unseen by Kate in her excitement, he had
seized the opportunity a few moments before
of unbuckling the strap. Kate felt herself on
the point of slipping, and pulled in Harlequin
with fury in her heart just as Darley was adding,
with hypocritical apology, ' I'm sorry, i'm,
but, knowing you was in a hurry for a ride, I

tlioiight it would hasten matters.' He had been
loosening the girth even as he ran.

« Take that for your pains !' and Kate brought
her whip down with a sharp blow in his face.

The man started back, while his features,
grown dark-red under the indignity, showed
the mark of the whip right across them.

Mr. O'Brien would have to answer for it, if
he dared to treat me so — not that he would doit;
he's a gentleman, he is.'

Kate flung herself to the ground, scornfully
disregarding him ; and turning to Violet, who
had just come up, hissed between her teeth,
with a rich colour dyeing her glorious face,
though she looked wicked in her beauty at
the moment,

Your servant, there, nearly caused me to
break my neck. You see what he did to the
girths?' and she pointed to the saddle that had
slipped off Harlequin's back. * I have only
punished him as he deserves.'

My servant, I feel certain, only Ravished to
carry out my orders,' said Violet, with a manner
so intensely quiet, and a voice so low but 



tinct, it was a striking contrast in its essence of
haughtiness to Kate's stormy violence. *An
insult to him I must consider the same as if
offered to myself.'

Look here, Violet, one word for all. I have
come out to ride to-day, and do you, who call
yourself a friend, choose to disgrace me before
your grooms by refusing me the loan of the
only horse I would thank yon to ride out of
those in your stables ? Of course I am poor, so
you think you can trample on me . 1 cannot
afford myself the luxury of as many hacks as I
please, so you would delight in making me put
on my habit for nothing, and come out here
only to be jeered at, and refused the one enjoyment
I ask of you — and goodness knows I have
few enough pleasures in life !' (The words
came out with a torrent's rush from Kate's
heaving breast. She hardly paused to take
breath as she hurried on.) ' It comes to this,
that either I ride Harlequin now, and you give
the orders to have that saddle put on again, or
else my husband and I leave your house at
once. We may not have a roof to shelter us ;

but, at least, lie will not allow me to be treated
in — in — iu such a disgraceful manner, however
rich you are. You may try to trample on me,
but you will never break my spirit . . . Either
I ride Harlequin, or else we both go — do you
understand V

Yes ; and though I regret it very much,
Kate, I think it will be best for you to leave my
house, as you say.'

Kate stared at her friend, stunned. She
hardly recognised Violet in the gentle but
determined woman who spoke. The feeling
that she had this time cut the ground from
under her own feet overwhelmed her, and she
moved slowly, going straight towards the
house. Violet turned to the stud-groom, and
said in a kind voice, that mollified the smart of
his wound more than any even golden ointment,

I am extremely sorry for what has happened,
Darley, but, as you see, Mrs. O'Brien is excited,
and I am certain she will regret her hastiness
very greatly before long. You have been so
long with me that I hope for my sake you will
think no more of this.'

To please you, Miss Vyvian, I'd stand twice
that, though I wouldn't endure it once for other
living Christian. I can't say more,' uttered Darley.

Thank you.' Violet turned her very pained
face round on the other three grooms who
stood eyeing her in respectful admiration. ' And
1 shall take it as a personal kindness if you will
all keep this disagreeable occurrence to yourselves.
I should be sorry to have it gossiped over
outside Forde stables.'

We'll take care it won't be, Miss Vyvian,'
chorused all the men.

It was not surprising that Violet's headache
became so much worse after this scene that she
was obliged to retire to her bed before dinner.
But Kate also sent down word she was
indisposed ; so that poor Rufus had a very
solitary meal, aud blessed his stars later over a
soothing pipe among the green tree-ferns of the
conservatory that not being a woman — how he
pitied them ! — he was free from such distressing
and mysterious ailments as their headaches.
Poor souls ! they were never safe ; well one
minute, and down another.

AVheu Violet came down . to breakfast next
morning be told her with deep concern that
Kate was far from being in good health. In
fact, she seemed to have broken down completely,
and had told him she required immediate
change of air and scene.

So I must take her over to Ireland as soon as
possible, poor girl. It's terribly unlucky, for
I hoped to economise a bit, as ye know, my
dear Violet, and just meant to run across myself
and see if I could either persuade, or fight some
little rent out of my tenants. I'd have roughed
it alone, but it's different taking her. Well — it
can't be helped ; but I'll be glad when I get
back to the hounds.*

The poor man looked with such a guileless,
childlike honesty shining out of his blue eyes at
Violet, feeling certain she would enter into his
feelings thoroughly, like the good girl ho had
always found her, that she was touched to forgiveness
for his sake ; and she indeed knew his
difficulties better than did Kate.

Well, Rufus, you [know that the hounds and
I can ill spare an old friend like yourself; so it

will uot be my fault if you are not back at
Forde for the hunting

Then, with a pleasant smile, she left the
room.

What does she mean V thought Rufus puzzled
; then he concluded, ' Maybe it means just
nothing at all, but I'll ask Kate anyhow ; she'll
know.'

She did; but reassured the good fellow that
it meant nothing.

For the three days that intervened before the
O'Briens departed, Kate stayed almost entirely
in her own room, and preserved an apparently
sullen silence towards her hostess. Yet when
she saw that Violet would by no means give up
her position of victory, although she had spoken
generously to Rufus about being willing to see
him and his wife back, Kate's feelings underwent
a singular change. The fact was, she
really did care for her friend as much as she
cared for any woman ; and it would be a terrible
' come-down ' to have no longer the prospect
of a home at Forde Manor.

Violet, Uke all such weak people, is obstinate

ou soil' points,' decided Mrs. Kate, privately. ' I
must overlook it this time, and when we come
back I will set about managing her in a different
way, that is all. I made a mistake ; but she
is an affectionate creature ; and will soon forget
it.'

Not for a moment did Mrs. O'Brien think of
abandoning her secret desire to rule Violet and
her household, somehow. Nevertheless, there
were genuine tears in her eyes, being emotional
by nature, when she came to say good-bye to
her young hostess.

Dear, I'm afraid I lost my temper and said
more than I meant the other day,' she said,
apologetically. ' You know, once I get angry,
I cant help myself. But I really am very fond
of you ; so, as I know it would be dreadfully
lonely here for you by yourself, I'll come back
to keep you company in October, if you like ;'
and she kissed her warmly on both cheeks.

Violet, however, stood immovable and silent.

I really am sony, and, in any case, promise
you won't tell Rufus,' persisted Kate, in a really
pleading voice, seeing she had not said enough.

Violet remembered, with inward pity, how
poor her friends were, how helpless and unhappy
Kate would be without the luxuries she
craved for and could not afford herself, and,
relenting, answered gently,

< I will not tell Rufus ; but I think we had
better part for awhile.'

'In October, then?' asked Kate, tentatively.

Yes, in October, if you wish, I shall be ready
to have you back

Thank you, dear,' said Kate, humbly.

CHAPTER IX.

NORTHWARD HO!

Not a soul but Violet and her servants now
remained at Fordo Manor.

What a blessed peace!' thought the gh'l to
herself, feeling free to be silent, or wayward, or
to indulge in any feminine whims without being
hampered by thoughtfulness for her guests'
comfort.

She promptly abolished a regular dinner,
as it was summer-time, and had a meal that
was ready at whatever twilight hour she
might please to come in from rambling in the
park. Sometimes she stayed at Littleforde and
shared the dinner-tea which Mrs. Beaumont had

also substituted for the more correct winter-repast
to gratify Miss Dolly. The two friends
were together a good deal every day for a
fortnight.

Then came the inevitable change.

Do you know, Violet, I am afraid I must take
Dolly to the sea next week,' announced Margaret,
regretfully. ' She would hardly touch
her bread-and-milk last night, did you notice '?
and she is pale and fretful these two days with
the heat. I fear you won't think much of meas
a friend, dear, for leaving you alone in this
way ; and, if it were not that I have solemnly
promised to stay with two old maiden-aunts of
my husband's at Brighton, I would ask you to
come too.'

Don't think of me,' replied Violet, more
cheerfully than she quite felt. * I recognise it
is a case of " necessity," as my old Scotch
nurse used to say.'

Next day, Violet was engaged to lunch with
the Blatherwicks, so she drove over to their
place in her polo-cart, with two pet terriers on
the seat beside herself and her groom behind ;

the whole neat turn-out having a 
air !

'Dear Miss Vyvian, low delightfully spick-and-span
and sportsraanHke you always look !'
exclaimed Mrs. Blatherwick, effusively, who had
been watching her amval from the window.
I always do think you the most enviable
person '

'Then you ought not to envy me now, considering
there is no more sport to be had hereabouts,
and that I have every prospect of
remaining by myself at Forde till September or
October,' returned Violet, rather glumly, who
hated being called a person and also a sportswoman.


0, — but how dreadful ! Fancy you with
everything at your command and able to please
yourself to the last farthings-worth. Why
don't you travel, now, my dear?'

Because I hate going alone ; but I might
hate a hired companion worse.'

0, — 1>ut how dreadful I Billy, do you know
that Miss Vyvian is quite alone ? And, Mr.
Cyril Vyvian, don't you think it is very poor

fun for your cousin staying behind, when we are
all hoping to be off to Scotland to enjoy
ourselves V

I do, indeed, think it will be lonely and not
very good for you, Violet,' said Cyril, in a
brotherly undertone, he being one of the
luncheon-guests also. Then he added, louder,
But, Mrs. Blatherwick, do not count upon me,
yet, please. I must think over this matter of
the moor, and let you know.'

Violet inquired their plans, and heard that
the Blatherwicks, having been struck with an
advertisement in the Field of a moor in the
north of Scotland, were urging Cyril to join
them in taking it.

If we could get a third, I should not mind
doing so,' now vaguely added Vyvian. He was
a poor man, and, though very fond of sport,
could not often afford to indulge therein when
expense was obligatory.

Why not take me for a third V put in
Violet, with a brightening look. She divined
Cyril's inner thought perfectly, knowing his
circumstances, and was delighted at the chance

of doing her cousin a kindly turn ; at the same
time it did seem lonely to be left like a sparrow
on a housetop, or a pelican in the wilderness,
when all her neighbours were away enjoying
themselves. ' I have never been in Scotland,
and should like to go immensely.'

Mrs. Blatherwick burst into an ecstasy of
rapture. The idea of being joined by Miss
Vyvian of Forde Manor lifted her to the seventh
heaven ; besides, having a most prudent mind,
the lady foresaw that Billy, her husband, would
gain a heavier share of sport and a lighter bill
to his share, as Violet would pay but not shoot.
After some mild protests on Cyril's part, who
would have preferred asking Violet as his guest,
the matter was again conned over, with the
result that after lunch mr. Blatherwick, who
knew Glenhoulachan (the moor in question),
wrote then and there to take it in their joint
names. The rest, meantime, went off gaily to
grill themselves at lawn-tennis.

I sa', Billy, 1 should not be surprised if a
match were to come of it between those two,'
sapiently confided Mrs. Blatherwick to her

spouse that night over her nightly sip out of
Billy's last brancly-and-soda. ' He could not do
better, you know; and she might do worse.
And then we shall have the honour and glory
of making it up.'

'Go to bed, old lady ; and don't turn matchmaker.
It's a game that reminds me of a
savage making fire, by rubbing two sticks
together. You may burn your fingers at
it, but don't expect thanks,' growled Billy.
Young people like to think they managed
all the business for themselves. Not but what
propinquity does a great deal ; and I will say
you see as far ahead as most of your half of
creation.'

Two days before the glorious Twelfth of
August, accordingly, saw Violet traveling upto
the far north of Scotland, in company with
Cyril and her maid ; the Blatherwicks having
preceded them to settle various household
matters. Violet's spirits began to rise as they
sped onwards. Past the old field of Bannock-bum,
Stirling Castle, and the green woods of
Bridge of Allan. Then, after sleeping at Perth,

through beautiful scenery, where the broad
brown Tay mirrors its wooded banks here and
there in the stream. Then came Pitlochry,
with woods around of mingled dainty, white-stemmed
birches and rugged Scotch firs that
struck Violet's eyes as a strange northern contrast
; and great stretches of lonely moor country
followed, dotted with baby-firs little bigger than
the heather in which they gi-ew.

Onwards still, past rivers foaming deep down
in their rocky beds ; and still on, through bare,
rolling hills where streams dwindled to burns.
Higher yet among purple heather-clad moors,
with peeps of cold-gleaming lochs. Then came
long blue arms of the sea, running far inland;
the rounded Stars of Cromai-ty guarding
their posts at the mouth of the Firth.

What a change it all is I And what a
pleasure to have fresh scenes to see, instead of
the old ones that only set one thinking about
oneself I' exclaimed Violet to Cyril, unconsciously
betraying why she hailed the change. But
Vyvian did not notice the true meaning of his
cousin's words. He was not very quick of per-vol.

II. L

caption, and was only pleased she was pleased,
thinking also how pretty she looked, and how
soothing she was as a companion, with something
of the effect of the sea on one's nerves.
She was full of sympathy, if called on, yet
bracing and restful, though with pleasant surface
changes. He was very fond of Violet — ashe
always had been. How different she was to
that other woman he had loved with such
stormy passion — to Kate O'Brien !

Then came the station at which they alighted,
and found a waiting dog-cart. Cyril made
himself, for the last time, useful about the
luggage, and Violet felt altogether pleased bj'
his really thoughtful care of her during the
journey. They drove off together, side by
side, seeing great purplish or brown-golden
moors rising around, between which wound a
narrow salt-water bay, or kyle, running far
inland, with a wrathful sunset glittering stormily
on its waters. On the shore, shaggy little
West Highland cattle glowered at the passers-by,
with no air of ' bovine domestic virtues
about them,' as Violet remarked, with the first

renewal of her old childish glee noticeable
since many a day.

Quite like Darby and Joan, I declare,' remarked
Mrs. Blatherwick, with a naive air, as,
after leaving the loch shore, they drove up fora
few hundred yards beside a wooded, naiTow
ravine, and amved at the lodge of Gleuhou-
clachan.

It was a pretty enough lodge, consisting of
two square cottages joined into one by means
of an open verandah. Standing in the latter,
one could throw pebbles sheer down into a
brawling bum seventy feet below. The water
itself was almost hidden by the growth of
broom and rowan saplings clothing the precipitous
sides of the gorge, that was narrow here,
but widened higher up into a picturesque glen.
But here and there the eye, looking down
through the gi-venery, espied gleams of snowy
white where the water boiled over in little falls :
and one could hear the rush and gurgle of the
running water all day long, mingling, like a
pleasant undertone, with common daily noises.
That night, Violet, whose led-room overhung

l2

the burn, lay in the midnight summer twilight,
with her window wide open, hastening to the
sound of the burn beneath, with its soft swh — wish
rising louder now in the stillness. The moon had
i-isen slowly in a clear crescent above some high
feathery larches crowning the higher ground
across the glen. She thought of Jack Ramsay,
as night and morning she always did,
and prayed for his welfare. But her brave
efforts had so far succeeded that her mind no
longer returned to think of him at all hours
and in all places. It is terrible to be haunted
by one ever-present thought, as Violet had been :
approaching, indeed, to a form of madness.
Now she was beginning to realize the idea
that she was not likely ever to see him again.
If, with all his attractions, be was not a man
whom she could honour and respect with all
her heart, then it Avere best, indeed, if they never
met.

The out-of-door life in the heather-scented
air soon helped to brighten and brace Violet up
immensely. She looked all the better in two
or three days for having left the low southern

pastures of Forde so far behind, as Mrs. 
told her bhmtly, ^vhen they were sitting
one mid-day on a heathery knoll watching some
distant black specks moving towards them over
the moors, and occasionally emitting a puff or
two of blue smoke.

'There! Did you see that right and left
shot, my dear? That was your cousin; he's
the best shot of them all. He always accounts
for his brace of grouse.'

*Not this time. That is one of his sailing
away over that rise of ground yonder. But he
is a good shot, as he is a good fellow in every
way,' said Violet, languidly fanning off a swarm
of flies with a long branch of bracken.

'Ah ! I expect he would give a good deal to
hear you say that ; he is so devoted to you, ina
quiet sort of way,' cunningly put in Mrs.
Blather wick, unable to resist the temptation.

In a very quiet sort of way,' was the 
answer. 'Are those sportsmen
never coming to lunch ? I am not only hungry,
but gi'cedy.'

Presently the distant figures of the spoi-tsr

men had come nearer and nearer ; now they
were within haiHug distance of the ladies, and
made signs towards a burn, while the setters
ran up panting, with their tongues lolling out,
as much as to say ' Come Violet and Mrs.
Blatherwick rose and went willingly over the
springy ground, through patches of bog-myrtle
and cotton-grass spread among the heather.
Down at a clear spring-head they joined the
sportsmen, who were laying aside their well-used
guns, whilst two gillies were unpacking
the lunch.

Hallo, Violet, there you are ! Here is a
comfortable seat for you,' Cyril called out, in a
matter-of-fact voice, pointing to some cushions
of green and crimson mosses by the tiny watercourse.
And, when she accepted his attention,
he seemed quite satisfied to stretch himself
beside Mrs. Blatherwick, and between the play
of his knife and fork to do the civil to that
talkative matron. Billy Blatherwick was good-natured
but rather bearish to his better-half,
and Cyril, in an easy way, liked making things
pleasant to women. His manner pleased Violet

more now than any overt show of attachment.
She knew Cyril really liked her, and her affectionate
nature was always ready to cling to those
of her own kin and to return attachment in lessor
greater measure.

Lunch over, it was pleasant for the grouse-players
to lie on their backs in the heather, while
laziness and smoke-wreaths enveloped them ina
gentle atmosphere, and women's talk and
laughter rippled softly around.

Then the afternoon's work began again, and
most often Violet found herself walking for
miles over spongy ground, springy heather, and
tussocky grass with Cyril Yyvian. Perhaps not
much talk was interchanged, sport being uppermost
; still they grew more intimate than ever
before, and used to each other's ways. There
is so much likeable in most people, that, given
mutual sympathy, daily companionship ought to
beget at least liking. So it was in this case ;
a true liking on Violet's part — no more.

Perhaps it was already a little more with
Cpil. Even so far back as before the badger-hunt
he felt a human, if rather spiteful, wish to

annoy Kate O'Brien by showing a preference for
his cousin. Presently the semblance began to
grow insensibly into reality. His interest and
inclination were prepared to go hand-in-hand, in
fact ; a decidedly lucky alliance. But he was
in no haste ; seeing no present rival but Guisard,
and, besides, Cyril was a somewhat self-distrustful
and retiring man. Remembering Kate, he
felt, ' once bitten, twice shy.'

There were some other men staying at ,
for each partner had the right to ask
a guest. Violet ceded hers at present to Cyril,
hoping later to have up her bosom-friend, Margaret
Beaumont. But she was surprised to find
Major Ball was one of those invited, Cyril having
taken a fancy to him in town, where the two
had met several times lately. He was in the
highest of spirits, and talked so loudly that Mrs.
Blatherwick's heart was quite won. Both she
and Ball were of those people who seem to
imagine that the rest of the world is deaf, and
who delight, like a couple of canaries, in raising
their voices higher and higher in friendly concert.
No wonder that the head-keeper sourly

remarked: 'The little major's tongue is liiuig
unto light,' aud persisted in miscalling him
Bell.

Towards evening, when the last eliot was fired,
it was pleasant turning homewards over the
moor. Coming down through the cultivated land
of the little * fees' a covey of young partridges
might be seen stealing across the open ground
to the sheltering oats like so many chickens.
Their Dies frae, dies illa, was not come as yet.
Then a climb over a stone fence into the woods
of ' home,' and a pleasant ramble back through
the larches and down the lovely little glen, till
the lodge came into view.

Later on a glorious?. Scotch supper, when the
best of hare-soup, smoking hot salmon, mountain
mutton, and grouse were spread in lavish
profusion, and relished not only for their excellence,
but the accompanying hunter's sauce of
downright hunger. Afterwards a game of
poker ; and no wonder that at night Violet
slept the dreamless sleep of healthy fatigue she
had vainly sought in London and its dissipations.


And yet a convict's plank-bed is a joke to
my couch here,' grumbled Major Ball. ' I believe,
on my honour, my mattrass is stuffed with
paving-stones.' And he was only appeased by
the assurance that everyone else had risen also
with aching sides.

Other afternoons some of the party would
prefer fishing in the kyle. So they went down
through the fields where the wild raspberries in
the hedgerows were red with fruit, and the dog-roses
a pale pink flush, to a big, flat-bottomed
boat that lay hauled up on the gravel. Then,
if the tide was running in, the sea-trout came
up too, big, and hungry for the fly, and the seagull
and plover circled overhead. Violet, under
Cyril's guidance, learnt to throw a fly, and felt
the first wildly exciting hobble, 'hobble, 'hobble,
at the end of her line, denoting the happy fact
that she had struck a trout.

I like it ; but it does not come often enough
to please me,' she declared. ' I shall never be
much of a fisher-woman.'

Mrs. Blatherwick, however, loved standing
up for hours, with her plump person buttoned

tightly into an ulster, flogging the uuhecdiug
waters. She seldom had a rise, but she had a
thousand reasons to explain why not.

The third day after they anived was Sunday,
and they all walked in the afternoon to see
some falls in a picturesque salmon-river two
miles distant. Heavy rain had come down
during the night, so there was a spate in the
stream. It was a wild moorland scene, the
rush of peaty-brown water swirling down its
rocky river-bed, turning to a clear golden colour
as it swept over the falls in the strong shoot of
its curve, and downwards in a boiling, seething
snowy mass that surged up again in myriad
bubbles from the pools beneath. Grilse were
springing up the foaming water ; plovers circled
in flocks, showing white gleams every now and
then in their flight over the moors around. The
river flowed with a sudden bend, and in the
angle thereof was a little lonely graveyard in a
wood, that overhung the falls.

*It is a weird, but a beautiful idea,' thought
Violet, who had gone a few yards apart by
herself. ' The fathers of the hamlets round

should sleep well in this lovely spot, with the
soft thunder of the falling water making everlasting
music, and the silent moors spread
around them in a peace like their own, knowing
no tilling or reaping, but nature's blessed rest.'

Awfully lonely, isn't it, here. Miss Vyvian?'
said Major's Ball's voice, and with quite a dismal
air he sat down beside the girl on a fallen fir-tree.
' Ugh ! it makes me think of deaths and
partings, and all that is miserable in life.*

Violet grasped the opportunity for which he
little knew that she had been vainly watching
since he came.

You parted from your friend Captain Ramsay,
by the way, a few weeks ago. How did he
like the prospect of India V she asked, trying to
command her voice to a quite careless sound.

Poor Jack I Yes, I went to see him off.
Never saw him so down in the mouth before,
poor old chap ; he hadn't a word to throw to a
dog.'

I saw you both one evening at the " Health-cries
'' ; it was quite useless to try to attract
your attention,' went on Violet, rather tenaciously.

' By the way, who was that very pretty
girl Captain Ramsay was with?' Her throat
tightened slightly as she waited to hear her
successor's name.

A pretty girl — I can't tell yon,' said the little
major, with a puzzled look. Then — ' ! 1
know ; yes, of course, such a handsome woman !
Why, she's his married sister, just come back
from China with her husband, who's no end of
a three-tailed Bashaw out there, and in a big
tea-business or something of that sort. Ramsay
is awfully fond of her.'

CHAPTER X.

CYRIL SCORES.

The other men-guests, with the exception of
Major Ball, had all left, and Margaret and Dolly
had arrived the previous evening, when one
day at breakfast Mr. Blather wick observed,
between the mouthfuls of a huge bowl of oatmeal
porridge that he was discussing with great
gusto,

*I say, Vyvian, Donald was telling me
yesterday we ought to try that beat out by the
Smuggler s Cave. You know we haven't been
there yet, and I believe it's really the best beaton
the whole moor. So suppose you and Ball

start directly after breakfast. I'll wait for Guisard,
who I've asked to come over and shoot
from Fechau, and then the ladies can all join
us at the cave where we will have lunch.'

'Miss Uncle Jack coming?' asked Dolly, in a
whisper to Violet.

'No, dear,' she replied, turning away to hide
the blush she felt she could not conceal.

But 1 want him, and so do you, Auntie Vi,'
persisted the child.

Uncle Jack has gone away — a great many
miles to another country, and we shall not see
him for a long time, Dolly,' put in Margaret,
loyally coming to Violet's assistance.

Ah ! Miss Dolly, so you are in love too with
my friend Jack,' laughed the little major ; ' odd
isn't it. Miss Vyvian. how the rascal seems to
capture all the hearts of the female sex. Hope
you are not a victim too,' he added, with an air
of jocularity.

Of course I am,' replied Violet, with a feeble
attempt at a smile. ' You know when such
Admirable Crichton as Captain Ramsay and
yourself pay even the common courtesies of civilized

life to ns poor women — what can we do
but fall down and worship you !'

Well done, Miss Vyvian ! You've caught it
hot this time, Ball, so you'd better take to flight
and get your gun, for it's time you and Vyvian
were off,' said Mr. Blather wick ; ' besides, I see
Donald walking up and down yonder, no doubt
cursing you in forcible Gaelic for being a pair
of dilatory Sassenachs.'

Thank heaven, the little wretch is gone,'
muttered Violet to herself, as the funny major
left the room, feeling he had got the worst of
the encounter, and that Violet held him but in
poor estimation.

My dear,' began Mrs. Blatherwick, ' weren't
you rather hard on the little man ? I'm sure
he means no harm.'

Then he shouldn't exhibit such a good idea
of his own sex,' answered Violet, warmly. ' I
declare some men think they have only to look
at us to be converted in our minds into a sort
of fetish that we are bound by some uncontrollable
impulse to fall down and worship ; — and
evidently Major Ball thinks that his friend and

himself come under this heading. Now I must
go and attend to the affairs of state, and answer
all these letters,' she continued, smiling, and
holding up a budget of correspondence that had
arrived bj the post.

After some delay the major and Cyril effected
a start, though it was always a difficult business
to get the little ' man of war ' off. One day he
would say he would shoot with his sixteen-bore,
and then at the last moment he would change
his mind and elect to use a twelve-bore. This of
course necessitated an adjournment to the gun-room
to change the cartridges. Then he would
argue for ten minutes on the probable state of
the weather, and debate in his own mind as to
whether he should take a mackintosh with him
or not. Anon he was sure his whisky-flask
(which by the way was of prodigious dimensions)
had been forgotten, and so on; in fact, as Donald
the keeper observed : * Yon beetle major is
enough to drive anybody daft.* At last, however,
he was suited with gun, cartridges, waterproof,
and whiskey-flask, and a start was made.
They had to walk some two miles to their beat,

VOL. II. M

aDcI arrived there, the dogs, a brace of handsome
Gordon setters, were uncoupled, and at a wave
of the keeper's hand darted off and began
quartering their ground with perfect precision.
The beat was a fairly flat one, lying in a valley
between gently undulating hills that some
distance beyond fell abruptly towards the sea ;
their sides seamed with many a deep wooded
and rocky fissure, amongst one of which lay
the Smugglers' Cave, a noted spot, where in
days of yore many a cargo of French brandy
and other foreign commodities were landed that
never paid the king's duty. These days, however,
had long since gone by, and the Smugglers'
Cave nov saw as its occupants only an occasional
party of sportsmen intent on enjoying
their lunch amid its cool recesses, that offered a
pleasant retreat from the burning rays of an
August sun.

To — ho — steady. Bang !' and Donald holds up
his hand warningly. Flash, the other setter,
has found birds, and is standing looking as if
carved out of marble, so immovable is he. The
warning is addressed to the younger dog that,

fired with the emulation and jealousy of youth,
is a bit inclined to take Flash's point from
him. As Cyril and Major Ball walk up to the
point, both dogs cree]) forward step by step, then
halt immovable ; then a few more steps, till at
last a brood of grouse rises some five and twenty
yards off. ' Bang — bang ! — Bang — bang !' the
four barrels ring out in quick succession.
Three birds are down. Two to Cyril — one to
the major. As the birds rise both dogs seem to
sink into the ground, and remain motionless
till Donald bids them, ' Seek dead.' Bang, as
the younger dog, and therefore to be encouraged,
is allowed to fetch a brace, whilst his older
companion has to be content with the honour of
bringing only one of the slain.

Confound it all !' said Major Ball. * I was
sure 1 was dead on my second bird, Vyvian.
Are you sure there is not another down, Donald ?'
he added, turning to the keeper.

Ay, quite certain, major ; yo shot a bit
wide on him. I see'd yere shot strike that bit
pool yonder, whilst the bird was foot there I'
pointing to a spot some five yards to the left.

M 2

On they go; now Bang earning the honour
of finding birds, whilst anon it falls to
Flash. But somehow, though Cyril, who is a
really good shot, almost invariably bags his right
and left, the little major as often as not only
gets one bird, and often none! whilst a good
many of the hares he fires at go ofi" scot-free,
leaving a fleck or two of their fur behind clinging*
to the heather to show where a stray pellet has
struck them. Much time is Avast in following
these animals which the major declares invariably,
to be 'hit all to pieces, my dear sir,
and cant go more than twenty yards.' However,
somehow they are never seen again !

And so the game goes on; and, in spite of
the ' wee major's ' crooked powder, the bag is
visibly swelling. It is the fashion now-a-days
to vote shooting over dogs slow ; but what can
be more charming than to see a brace of highly-broken
dogs quarter their ground with rhythmical
precision, crossing and re-crossing each
other, one pointing and the other backing. Besides,
there is that great charm of wild moorland
shooting over wide stretches of purple

heather, out of which here and there crop
out green patches of moss and rushes, likely
spots to harbour a duck or a teal, or maybe a
snipe.

Then you know not what diversity of game
your bag will hold at the end of the day.
Perhaps a few brace of partridges if your
ground adjoin cultivation ; perhaps a hare ora
few snipe, or maybe the shooter's prize that
bonnie brown, long-billed bird, a wood-cock,
a vara avis truly on many moors, but not soin
the far north.

Cyril and Ball have now shot to the end of
the flat, and turn towards the trysting-place,
where lunch awaits them. On the way they
have to go through a piece of boggy ground,
where the white fluffy balls of the cotton-grass
are nodding gently in the pleasant breeze that
sweeps up from the sea through a gorge in the
hills.

Gang safely, major, gang safely, and maybe
ye'll get a chance at a deck,' whispers Donald,
as Ball goes splashing through the little pools
of water. The warning is issued none too

soon, for with a great fluster up rise a couple of
duck almost at his feet.

Bad shot as he is, Ball can hardly miss, and
cuts down the mallard before he is well on the
wing ; but his left barrel produces no effect on
the duck, which only accelerates its flight. The
little man is all excitement, and regardless of
the unwritten laws of sport, and the probability
of unsteadying the dogs, rushes forward to
secure his prize. As he does so, a green 
spot lies across his path ; one
step on this, and the next moment his shout
of victory is changed into a most distinct

D n !' as he flounders nearly up to his arms

in a treacherous moss-bog.

At last, by the aid of Donald and the attendant
gillie, the spruce little major of a few hours
before was hauled out, dripping like a river-god,
and covered with black slimy ooze and
particles of green moss. Both Cyril and Donald
urged him to go home and change ; but, in spite
of his ducking and learning that his prize the
mallard was safely gathered, the moist sportsman
scorned the idea, and, after a lengthy pull

at his Whisky-flask, ' ji^st to keep the cold out
as he observed, with a merry twinkle of his eye,
determined to continue the beat. At length
they reached the Smugglers' Cave, where they
found the ladies busy laying out the lunch ;
and shortly after they were joined by Mr.
Blatherwick and Lord Guisard. The latter,
after observing Ball with a supercilious glance,
remarked,

Bj gad, Ball, should think you've been
imagining yourself a terrier, and been going to
ground after an aquatic fox, ehV

Poor Major Ball, how wet you are ! Why
don't you go home and change ? ' kindly
observed Violet, noticing the little man's
plight.

It's a mere nothing, Miss Vyvian — tumbled
into a bog-hole, that's all ; but I've got something
for you which I hope you'll put in your
hat,' rejoined Ball, at the same time pulling
out of his pocket the two curly feathers of the
mallard's tail.

Indeed, that I will,' she rejoined, ever anxious
to be good-natured. * But come, now, to

please me, promise as soon as you have had
your hmch you'll go home.'

As a ijyeux chevalier, 1 must obey a lady's
commands,' responded Ball, bowing gallantly.

And now the grouse pie, sandwiches, cake,
&c., are attacked with true hunter's appetite, a
pleasant ripple of conversation going on the
while ; and, though Mrs. Blatherwick plays a
good knife and fork, she yet, in the intervals of
conveying her food to her mouth, finds time to
keep up a constant chatter.

Well, Mr. Vyvian,' she remarked, * you and
the major have beaten Lord Guisard and my
husband by ten brace. How fortunate you
are !'

'All Vyvian's doing, Mrs. Blatherwick— all
Vyvian's doing. I can assure you, Miss Vyvian,'
added Major Ball, turning to Violet, ' / contributed
very little to the bag. You see, they
brought out my sixteen-bore for me to-day, and
birds were a bit wild, and somehow, though I
hit a lot — cut 'em all to ribbons, in fact, and
the poor brutes must die — yet I didn't bag
many. But Cyril kept "wiping my eye" time

after time, and if he wasn't such a real good
chap, I should feel annoyed — deucedly annoyed,'
he added, in an undertone ; ' but he is a ripping
shot, a real clinker, and it's a treat to see him
shoot.'

By-the-by, Miss Vyvian, I hear you've
bought that chap Ramsay's horse, the screw he
won the point-to-point race on V broke in Lord
Guisard, with his mouth full of grouse pie.

At this imputation of Jack being a ' chap,'
and Harlequin a worthless screw, Violet felt the
hot blood mount to her face.

Xo, Lord Guisard,' she replied, coldly, ' 1
have not bought Captain Kamsay's horse. He
values him far too highly, and rightly so, to sell
him to anyone.'

What ! he's given him to you, then, eh ?
Very kind and considerate, I'm sure ; but take
care the brute don't break your neck,' was the
sneering retort.

Violet's feelings were now thoroughly roused.
Here was a second insult to one who still, in
spite of all, occupied the warmest corner of her
heart. Remembering how the speaker had

once sought her hand for no other cause than
her money, and with the chivalrous desire to
champion the cause of an absent friend, hot
words were rising to her Hps ; but Cyril came
to her rescue, saying,

Come, come, Guisard ; you are quite mistaken.
Jack Ramsay is a thorough gentleman,
and would no more stick anyone with an unsound
horse than he would cut off his right
hand ; and, as to Harlequin being a screw, he
managed to show you and me the way pretty
often and to our discomfort. You forget how
he pounded you in the "Point to Point." Ramsay
is a personal friend of mine, and so I for
one won't hear a word against him. If you are
bitten with curiosity as to how the horse came
into my cousin's hands, I may as well tell you.
Ramsay asked her as a personal favour to take
care of him during his absence in India, knowing
he would have a good home With her. Now
are you satisfied?' and he looked defiantly at
his lordship.

I tell you what it is, my lord,' said Ball.
Jack Ramsay and Harlequin could give you

aDcl the best horse iu your stable a stone and a
beating any day, over any country you like to
name, and if dear old Jack were at home I'd
make a match with you for five hundred pounds
a-side.'

Avoient are always grateful to those who
come to their aid, and Violet was no exception,
for rising, she gave a look at both Cyril and the
little major that expressed more than could
mere words. She was pleased at Ball's praise
of her cousin, and doubly pleased with Cyril
not only for the way he had come to her rescue,
but for the straightforward manner in which he
had defended Jack, Ms absent friend, and (ah I
she could not but acknowledge it) the one man
on earth she had once loved. All this predisposed
her in favour of her cousin, and her
warm heart went out towards him. She had
always entertained an affection for and taken
an interest in Cyril, and now, when she felt so
lonely, she had got to lean on her cousin more,
and to look to him for assistance. He had on
many occasions shown her so much care and
attention, had been so sedulous in anticipating

all her little wants and wishes — and then it is
so sweet to hear anyone in whom we are
interested praised, no matter for what, that it
seems to increase any regard we may have for
those that give the praise — and so somehow, seeing
the good opinion others had of him, Violet
now felt herself drawn nearer to Cyril. Her one
little romance had been rudely shattered. Was
she to waste her whole life for the sake of an
idea ? — to worship a fallen idol ? Was it always
to be as now; with no one to look np to, to care
for, to go to in trouble or weariness of spirit ?
Once she had hoped, nay, even been certain,
that Jack would have supplied the want. But

now Ah ! well, it was no use wasting life in

vain regrets. Cyril was a good fellow, and,
weak though she vaguely guessed he might be,
he still had sterling qualities ; and if, as Violet
conjectured, he had begun to entertain feelings
of love for her, — well, it was something to be
offered affection, real, genuine affection, and
from one whom she had known from her earliest
years as good and kind.

Now, come, 1 won't have you all quarrelling,'

broke in Mrs. Blatlierwick. ' So now, Major
Ball, pray have a glass of curator, and then
walk yourself dry. Come, Mr. B.' — turning
to her husband — ' just be off. You know this
is to be our best day, so you mustn't stay
dawdling here. Violet and I will go to the
top of that hill and mark for you.'

It's precious little marking you'll do, my
love, except mark a prominent point in the
landscape with that flaring red petticoat of
yours,' answered her spouse, testily. And so,
soon the Smugglers' Cave relapsed into its wonted
silence, whilst away in the distance little blue
puffs of smoke and faint reports betokened that
the sportsmen were again at work, shooting
their way home with varied success.

CHAPTER XL

LOST IN THE MIST.

^ Billy,' announced Mrs. Blatherwick one
morning at breakfast, ' Sandy, the gillie, tells
me there is the sweetest mountain loch ever
seen, " full of grand fush,'' about four miles off
in the hills near that big Ben something or
other — you know its name. Now, we ladies
are all dying to have a long day's fishing in it,
so we've settled to do so, and you gentlemen
must just come, too. Say yes.'

'If you've settled it, there's not much left
for us to say. It strikes me, though, that you
are saying two words for yourself and one for
the other ladies,' grumbled Billy, good-humoured,

looking rather like a rosy pig with
mutton-chop whiskers, as he raised his head
out of his usual preliminary plate of porridge
and cream. His criticism was true ; for neither
Violet nor Margaret Beaumont cared ' wildly
well ' for angling. But Mrs. Blather wick did ;
and she was one of the tight little women who
have been said to rule the world. Dolly announced
also that she liked to ' miss,' and,
wherever she moved, she had always a court
of willing subjects.

So one fine morning they went a-fishing. A
cart was borrowed from the nearest farm, and
made easy with some sacks full of straw ; as
the distance was considered too great for some
of the ladies' walking powers, and ponies were
not to be had. For two miles they jolted,
accordingly, up a so-called mountain-road, something
like a dry river-bed, till their teeth chattered
in their heads, and their cheeks felt shaking
like jellies ; Dolly giving shrill little screams
of glee with every bump the cart made over
a rock. After two miles, the track, meant only
for peat-carts, ended ; so they alighted, and for

the remaining distance breasted the swelling
moors and still higher stiff hills bravely. Presently
the party separated into twos and threes,
for at deceitfully-green, boggy spots each thought
they could strike out the best hne for springing
from tussock to tussock, as also the easiest-looking
carries up the hill-sides. Thus Mrs. Beaumont
and Violet found themselves alone about one
o'clock sitting, panting, on a bare hill-top among
out-cropping boulders ; while, as far as eye could
reach, a wild waste of moorland surrounded
them, bounded in the far blue distances by
mountain-crags serrated like the teeth of a
saw, or strangely-shaped so that one could
fancy them great couchant animals.

How glorious and free it feels up here! I
love this unfenced country, Adhere one's thoughts
seem to wander unchecked as air, and there are
no hedgerows and high-roads to remind us continually
of our neighbours,' exclaimed Violet,
resting her chin on her hand, and breathing in
with delight the brisk mountain breeze that
made her blood dance Lightly in her veins, as
she looked away and away, seeing : —

Where the moss bears print of the wild-deer's tread,
And the heath like a royal robe is spread.'

'Well, I think these are the longest four
miles I ever knew. My feet are soaking wet
with slipping about in those bogs, and we have
had two showers already. I only hope it does
not mean to settle down for a wet day,' declared
Mrs. Beaumont, quite pettishly for so sweet-tempered
a woman. ' We ought to have come

to this famous loch an hour ago, and Where

are the others?'

Not a' having soul was to be seen on the
wastes before them. Violet jumped up in surprise,
but it was not until she had run round
to the other side of the hill that some human
specks were visible, going in quite an opposite
direction to that they themselves had
lately been taking.

There they are ! Dolly's pony and the
gillies. Come along, Margaret, and see — here
is the track of a red deer.'

I should much prefer finding some white
heather as a sign of good luck. Here comes
another shower,' grumbled Margaret, as a smart

VOL. II. N

scud stung her face and the sky lowered ominously.
' And is that your romantic loch V

Violet could not help laughing as her friend
gazed in blank disappointment at a dark tarn
below them, set in a level expanse of moorland,
like a blot of ink in the gloomy waste. No
lights or shadows, no tender hues of colouring
enlivened the landscape, for the sun had gone
suddenly behind a thick grey curtain.

Down hill Violet dragged her friend, half running
and protesting, whilst they slipped often in
the now thoroughly wet heather, and roused two
or three blue hares, startled from their forms.

Friendship has limits, and I vow I won't
trust to you as a guide home, Violet,' gasped
the pretty widow. ' You have brought me at
least two miles out of the way. Why would
you drag me off, and not allow your cousin or
Major Ball to come with us?'

Because — I wanted to have you to myself.'

'All nonsense ! Women are well enough together
indoors. But you would be much
better with your cousin now, and very likely for
good and all in life. There ! my right boot is

SO spongy, it has slipped round, and the solo is
almost staring me in the face.' And as the
speaker gazed aggrieved at a lately neat chaussure,
though rather too light for Highland walking,
Violet was spared a reply.

Here is your lunch waiting. Isn't the loch
jolly? Do hurry, for I am longing to begin
fishing,' cried Mrs. Blatherwick in welcome, as
they arrived at last.

She was attired in an ulster, with the pointed
hood drawn over her hat, the shortest of leather-lined
petticoats and high-laced, hobnail boots
with a ' little side-path,' to quote Edmund
About, round them. She was supremely happy,
likewise Dolly, who was snugly seated inside
Mr. Blatherwick's mackintosh, fastened tent-wise
over her head, whence chuckles of satisfaction
proceeded as tributary dainties were
handed in by her men-subjects.

Let me hold that umbrella over you, Violet,
just to keep the rain out of your claret,' said
Cyril, considerately, standing with his back to
the storm, and his collar up to bis ears.

Don't mind, please, I like it watered ;' and an

n2

inch of rain-fall was received quickly by
Violet's tumbler. ' See, your own sherry ! — it is
toppling over.' She burst into a musical ringing
laugh at poor Cynl's woeful face as he turned
to see the silver cup of more cordial beverage,
that he had propped in the heather, silently
pouring out in libation to mother earth.

Then they all put their rods together, and
betook themselves to the loch-side, where the
gillies had been busily plashing big stones into
the dark water to make fishing piers for the
eddies.' Most of the men waded bravely in upto
their knees, excepting Major Ball, who,
observing that he did not consider himself a
sponge, or any sort of amphibious animal,
solemnly flattened down the sides of a very
large, grey, cowboy wide awake, under which
he had set forth jauntily that morning, and,
giving his collar a higher hitch above his damp
ears, asked,

'Now, Dolly, what do you think of me V
! you do look a funny little man under
that big hat ; you're very like a mushroom,*
replied truthful Dolly, who was thereupon much

puzzled why her mother and Mrs. Blatherwick
littered reproving Hush ! 's, whilst Mr. Blather-wick
and company laughed uproariously.

Violet, though not by any means kilted so courageously
high as Mrs. Blatherwick, was yet so
well got-up in a weather-proof, short-skirted
Refer and natty shooting-jacket, that she
almost disregarded the still thickening rain,
though it poured off her hood presently in
sheets as from a gutter-pipe. She stood bravely
far out on a big stone, poised so delicately by
Sandy that it needed the most nice adjustment
of equilibrium not to be soused into the dark
flood around. Then, invoking luck, she made
a cast far out on the sullen waters, and many
times again till she nearly cast away hope.

'How are you all getting on?' she called
down the wind between rain-gusts, to the
various rock-bound figures, who looked like
reeds bending before the storm.

Fm standing on a perfect logging-stone, I
believe,' moaned poor Margaret. ' I feel as if
I might be a sacrifice of the Druids, or something
like that — Ugh!' as her particular foothold

shook ominously, the whole pier threatening
collapse.

The wind is always tying up my line in
knots,' came from Mrs. Blatherwick, who held
up lamentably a rod that seemed decorated
with true-lover's bows. ' Here, Sandy, Sandy,
come and undo this thing.'

But red-haired Sandy had dashed into the
water near Violet, holding the landing-net in
keen excitement. For he had just spied some
silver-sided gleams darting wildly in and out
of the water at the end of her line, and heard
the music of the reel.

'Eh! that's grand! Two fish— that's uncommon,'
he exclaimed, as somehow, Violet
never knew quite how, she found that having
two flies on her line each had hooked its trout.
Ye wull have been instructed how to fish by
Muster Vyvian. It's just a privilege to
watch him.'

So saying, the enthusiastic Sandy looked
admiringly to where Cyril stood up to his knees
in the loch, while his line swished straight out
through the air, and then fell with such treacherous

lightness on the water that he seemed
holding a magician's divining-rod ; for truly he
charmed those speckled loch treaties out of
their element with every cast as if they had
obeyed a very Dagon, the fish-god.

The rest were having varied luck, Mrs.
Blatherwick alone being persistently unfortunate,
while she grew more and more excited,
and cast her flies with still more resounding
flops on the rain-dimpled waters.

Ah ! I don't take much interest in this sort
of rough loch-fishing,' said Major Ball, looking
with carelessly fine contempt at his almost
empty basket. ' But Spey-casting, now, that I
flatter myself I am not a bad hand at.'

As the afternoon wore on, a thick, grey mist
softly drew overhead, lessening, as it seemed,
the force of the rain which still persistently fell,
and hiding all but the nearest objects in the
landscape. Both Violet and Mrs. Beaumont
had grown weary of fishing after an hour or so.

For standing in a perilous position, in a wet-blanket
atmosphere, cold, damp, with no one
to talk to, and when the fish won't rise, is not

my idea of a genial way of spending one's day,'
remarked Margaret, ruefully. ' You've got five
trout, haven't you ? Well, I've caught none.'

How unhappy you would be if you came out
bunting with me, and all the covers were drawn
blank ! There is one good thing about fishing,
it begets patience in an angler

Patience ! I call it waste of time. Why, I
might have finished a whole petal of that
magnolia I was embroidering, if I had stayed at
the lodge to-day.'

Yes ; and then when finished you will wrap
it up in silver paper and put it by carefully,
because, as you acknowledged yesterday, you
don't know exactly what to do with it. I am
very glad I insisted on your coming up to Scotland.
You were getting quite a narrow-minded
individual at Littleforde.'

Well, you will never make a sporting character
of me,' laughed Mrs. Beaumont. ' But
you are quite right, dear, that a woman living
alone does often so narrow her mind within her
four walls that she knows no more of the outer
world than a bird in a cage.'

They both wont to join Dolly, who was
seated, presumably like an aboriginal inhabitant
of our island during the flint period, in the
hollow of a bank, grubbed a few inches deeper
to shelter her small person by her special attendant
gillie. She was verifying the truth of
the adage, that ' a watched pot never boils ;' for
it was only after three weary times of attempt,
hopeful ignition, and damping failure that the
gillie had succeeded in making a fire under the
lee of the bank, and that he was now boiling a
kettle for tea. He had also been doing his best
to entertain Miss Dolly, who, failing other amusement,
had peremptorily begged for a story.
Alter was a melancholy man, and nothing
would come to his memory but stories of second-sight.


There was a man he had known in his own
(Allister's) boyhood, and this man lived away
near Glenhoulachan. One Sunday afternoon,
when taking a walk down by the loch, this man
was surprised to see the windmill that belonged
to his neighbour going round merrily. Shocked
at this instance of breaking the Sabbath, the

man went nearer, when lo ! the sails were still,
and he saw they were fastened; furthermore,
he recalled there Alas no ivincL He went into
the miller's house and told what he had seen,
and strange to say within a month the miller
died.

Furthermore, this same individual was one
day going up the mountain behind his house,
when he beheld his own cart coming towards
him down the road half-full of peat. There
was some one, whose face he could not see,
lying as if dead on the peat, and his sister s son
was leading the pony.

Now, the man knew he had left his pony at
home in the stable ; and also the apparition
passed by him without any sound. So he went
home much perplexed, and confided to his wife
what he had seen. Six weeks later, as he himself
was cutting turf up on the mountain, he
quarrelled, as was supposed, with another man
who hit him with a turf-spade and killed him.
And his sister's son going up the mountain
found the body, and brought it home on the
pony cart, as he had foreseen.

Dolly sat listening open-mouthed, so absorbed
in these tales that she struggled valiantly not even
to cough when the smoke from the damp sticks
and peat occasionally enveloped her. She confided
later to her mother that ' Allister was nota
funny man, 'xactlv, but most intrusting to
listen to.'

The tea when brewed by Alter was considerably
smoked, but at least it was comforting
to be warmed again, as poor Mrs. Beaumont
remarked while dr^ang her toes in the embers
as she crouched under the bank. And accordingly
her face beamed like a sun through the
mist.

What a pleasure it is to see a lady come up
smiling like you after a tiring, disagreeable day,
Mrs. Beaumont ; you are a perfect example tous
all,' exclaimed Major Ball, enthusiastically
aside to her, transferring his fickle allegiance.
And Margaret smiled blandly upon him, yet
with an amused twinkle in the depths of her
brown eyes. The best of women are sometimes
hypocrites.

When at last all the party was gathered, tea

and stronger refreshment exhausted, they
started to walk homewards. Cyril, as he felt
was natural, attached himself to his cousin
Violet, and the rest of the party ' sorted themselves,'
(as the clergyman desired the flock of
mill-hands he had just promiscuously married).
For awhile all followed uphill through the mist,
with Allister, leading Dolly's pony, as guide.
But then came descents into damp hollows,
places where the wet heather grew higher
than elsewhere, and private judgment rebelled
against the sternly silent dictation of the long-legged
leader who stalked ahead on a Roman
method regardless of obstacles. Most of the
party began surreptitiously to take their own
line home; among these the two Vyvian cousins,
who preferred a comparatively dry hill-side to
sinking in wet moss and struggling through tall
heather down in the valley.

They were talking on a subject that interested
Violet immensely, namely, some repairs on which
Cyril consulted her, and that he thought of
making to the old manor-house, where he lived.
Now, if there was one thing Violet believed she

had a special capacity for understanding, it was
all matters connected ^vdth building. Cyril's
home was very old, so old it was never weather-tight
; in spite of continued repairs, dry-rot invaded
its old wainscoting, rats romped behind the
walls, and it was the despair of all builders who
were called in to prop its sinking floors and worn-out
beams. Violet in her heart feared a total
collapse of the roof some day, and knew the
dwelling involved a constant drain on her
cousin's already slender income.

Don't spend much on it this winter. It
really is not worth it, Cyril,' she said, in dissuasion.


My dear Violet, when a man has no other
home, and cannot afford to build himself a new
house, he is bound to keep the one ho lives in as
long over his head as it will stand,' was poor
Cyril's obviously sensible reply. And then an
idea suddenly struck him (it occurred uncomfortably
at the same moment to Violet) that
pulled him up short.

There was she, living less than a mile away,
with a great handsome house far more roomy

than ever she needed, and they were the only
two of the name left surviving. Cyril awkwardly
went on, with his mind full of what else he
might have said :

This is the mountain we passed by this
morning ; don't you remember the look of those
rocks. I can't imagine why Allister is keeping
down in that bog. It was a much shorter cut,
and very little worse walking where we crossed
over the shoulder of the hill. Shall we try it
now r

By all means. Yes ; this must be the same
place.'

Violet was absent-minded also in her reply.
It was a pity that Mrs. Grundy forbade her saying
cheerfully to Cyril, ' Take one wing of my house
and live in it all your life. It won't make any
difference to me.' Neither it would ; the east
wing was always closed, and she liked Cyril as
she might a good brother, truly and well.

They attacked the mountain-side accordingly,
which was steeper than they had thought.

But then we must have come down here in
the morning, so we never noticed it,' said Violet ;

and they kept on bravely, being just able at
moments, through the mist, to descry their friends
below in the glen. Presently they turned the
shoulder of the hill, when it seemed as if a
different current of wind drove the mist thicker
around them in great rolHng clouds like smoke.

Hullo I We had better hung down ; this is
not very pleasant,' said Cyril, anxiously, and he
gave his hand to Violet, helping her to scramble
down a steep part of the hill-side. Suddenly
she stopped and cried out,

This won't do, Cyril. Look I it is impossible
for anything but a goat to get down there.
This is not the way we came before.'

Let us get back again and go down into the
glen where we last saw the others,' suggested
Vj-^nan, feeling blameably uncomfortable. His
idea was perhaps the wisest course ; but, on
clambering again up the rocky track, they must
have missed a ledge by which they had turned
the shoulder of the hill, and now found themselves
obliged to struggle higher and higher. The
mist rolled too thicker than ever round them,
so that it was impossible to see more than a few

feet ahead, and soon both, though trying to
hide their thoughts from each other, gi-ew
anxious. Cyril stopped continually and hallooed,
hoping the others might hear him ; but no sound
came in answer, though both listened with keenest
intentness. An hour passed during which
they wandered along the mountain-side, still
hoping to find the path somehow. At last they
struck a dry bed of a winter-torrent, as both
supposed, and courageously began descending
it. At every step stones rolled from under their
feet, and the descent became so fatiguing that
Violet Alas fain to lean on Cyril's arm, besides
propping herself with a stout stick, or else, as
she declared, trying to laugh in spite of being
tired, she must have found herself sliding down
all the way.

Suddenly the laugh died on her lips, even as
she last spoke. A large stone, dislodged by
Cyril's foot, went bounding down, and the
latter only saved himself from falling by a great
effort.

Cyril,' she whispered, with blanched lips.
Listen ! — where did that stone go to f

At the same moment, a thud far down faintly
reached their ears. Violet felt sick, and was
obliged to steady herself against a jutting rock
where was a little ledge. The awful truth
flashed upon them both. This was no dry bed
of a brook, the stones were too loose and sharp
for that, but it was a ' scree,' or crumbled outcrop
of rock, like a small moraine, that one
may often see on a mountain-side, forming a
natural slide to the valley below.

Presently, in spite of trembling limbs and
dizzy heads, they made their way back again
upwards ; it was dangerous foothold, so that
when the stones rolled from beneath them
they had to hold their breath and strain every
nerve to recover ground. At last they reached
a safer ledge, and sank down exhausted
and giddy, yet so far saved from the awful
death they had so nearly risked a few minutes
ago.

'Cyril,' said Violet softly, after a short ,
during which her cousin sat mute
and miserable, ' there is no use disguising the
truth from ourselves. We are lost in the mist,
VOL. II. O

and our only chance of safety is to sit still till
it rises.'

I suppose so,' said Cyril, heavily. 'But that
may not happen till tomorrow morning. We
may have to stay here all night.'

As he spoke, Vyvian took off his overcoat, and
in spite of Violet's protestations wrapped it round
her. He then tried to strike some fusees, thinking
to make a little fire with heather, but the latter
was too damp ; and at last Violet urged him to
desist from the vain attempt, and to console
himself at least by smoking.

The mist rolled thick as ever around them.
Time passed ; and the darkness of evening fell
deepening on the lonely mountain-side, where
these two figures presently became indistinguishable
a few feet away from the rock against
which they sat crouched, had other eyes been
there trying to descry them.

CHAPTER XII.

HOW CAN YOU BE SO BRAVE V

xSINE o'clock on a September night, and lost in
the mist on the side of a Scotch mountain !

This was the situation in which Cyril and
Violet Vyvian found themselves more than
three weary hours after they had strayed aside
so thoughtlessly from the rest of their fishing-party.
It was too dark for Cyril to see his
watch, but he struck a fusee from time to
time, and even its little glow seemed a comfort.
The heavy rain of the afternoon had saturated
their clothes, so that they both felt chilled to
their bones.

It would not matter except for the mist that
keeps us damp. Otherwise one dries so quickly



in this Scotch air,' said Violet, trying to
speak Hight-heartedly, though her teeth felt inclined
to chatter in the cold. But the mist was
there palpably about them ; it clung to their
hair, was damp on their cheeks and they inhaled
its very breath, heavy and moisture-laden.


At first, both the wanderers had sat a little
apart on their rock-ledge. But after an hour or
two they crept insensibly closer and kept huddled
side by side ; partly for mutual shelter and
a poor attempt at preserving natural warmth,
partly from the sense that they two human
beings were lost and solitary in the awful loneliness
of nature that surrounded them. They
might perish on that mountain-side and their
bodies not be foimd for days and weeks. Such
cases were not unknown. They had not even the
lee of a rock for shelter ; they dared not go
further to seek a better refuge.

Luckily' Cyril had his flask with him, and when
after sunset it grcAv bitterly cold he made
Violet take a little of his whisky. He pressed
her to try more, but she refused.

We shall need it most perhaps iu the early
morning, the air is so much more chilly then.
"When my father was ill and I helped to nurse
him, we always dreaded most the time before
sunrise. But, Cyril — why don't you take some
yourself?'

I can smoke !' and, without caring how soon
his Kettle store of cigarettes might be exhausted,
Cyril puffed away. It was like the man to be
so improvident ; also to wish generously to keep
the contents of his flask for Violet's sole use.

As the hours passed on, their hopes of being
soon relieved languished, and indeed died out
of their hearts, while the warmth crept out of
their bodies. The others might not miss them
till all returned to the lodge (as indeed afterwards
proved to be the case) ; they would not
know where to search ; and indeed in such a
night it would be difficult to find them. On
the whole, two wanderers were seldom in a more
forlorn plight ; while some three miles away
they could fancy the gleam of the lodge windows,
and the ruddy glow of the peat-fire in the
dining-room. They often had a fire there on

cool nights ; the men Hked to sit around it and
enjoy their whisky-toddy. Instead of such
warm and pleasant surroundings the gulf of
eternity yawned very near before these two.
They seemed to be looking into it through the
darkness fearfully, as all poor human souls
must into the unknown, whatever their faith
and courage. A slip, a false step as so nearly
happened a short time ago — or the slow creeping
cold of the night-air — and their spirits might
be loosed from the fleshly trappings and the
earth they still found so pleasant, into that unknown
other existence.

It is a pity that you and I, of all people,
should be together, if any harm happens to us,
Cyril. I should be so satisfied to know you
would be my successor ; and now I can't think
who will come after us both,' Violet said, with a
little cheery attempt at a laugh, for under the
circumstances she felt she might better do that
than cry.

How can you be so brave ? But I admire it
in you, Violet ; I do indeed. You, who have so
much to enjoy, fortune, a happy nature, friends

who love you,' returned poor Cyril, with a
melancholy he could not restrain. ' Now I — if
fated not to see tomorrow morning's sun —
should leave little behind me but debts and
trouble, and certainly,' (his voice took a bitter
tone, showing where lay the regret in his heart)
few or none to be sorry. One ought, perhaps,
not to wish to be beloved, because at least there
will be none left who will grieve, but still,
Violet, I trust you may never know how awfully
lonely it is.'

Don't talk like that, Cyril. You know I should
be truly sorry, and that I have always liked
you very much,' Violet hastened to say in consolation.
She had never known before how
Cyril felt his isolation ; for he had not tasted the
joys of home-love since his invalid mother died
and left him solitary. ' We have been the best
of friends since we were children, have we not ?
and that is only right, considering we are the
last of our race.'

You. Yes, you are so good and true, Violet,
I believe you would be sorry — you alone ;' and
Cyril pressed the girl's damp-gloved hand

affectionately. ' For my part, if I had anything
in the world to leave you, I should very gladly
do so. But a pauper cannot enjoy the pleasure
of leaving, or the far greater one of giving, in
his lifetime, anything worth offering to those he
cares for

Are you not rating earthly goods too highly,
such as the rich man stored in his barns and
gloated over the night his soul was required of
him f asked Violet, softly. ' Remember you
have given better gifts in your lifetime to your
friends — kind words, help, sympathy. These
will never be forgotten; and, though unseen,
they are of far more real value than the things
that are seen.'

There was a silence ; for Vyvian was so
modest and self-distrustful a man by nature that
he could not be led easily to think well of himself,
whatever Violet said to cheer him. Then
he burst out,

If I had ever enjoyed any very happy portion
of life — as some fellows tell me they did at
Eton : and others seem to do later, although
theirs may be a short life and a merry one while

the money lasts — I think the thought of leaving
the T^'orlcl would not give me much regret.
But hitherto my life has reminded me of a
traveller climbing uphill, hoping to find some
happiness at the top, only to see more and more
hills rising beyond him, which he must surmount
before he can hope to gain his share of
earthly joy.' x\nd, stirred strongly for once in
his life to seek human fellow-sympathy, a consolation
from which circumstances had long shut
him out, poor Cyril laid bare his inner history.
He told of mortifications endured in boyhood,
when his father had not the means, through
embarrassments consequent on youthful extravagances,
to send his son to a good school, or
even give him a proper allowance of pocket-money.
Then of struggles later, as a young
fellow, to pay that dead father's debts, and his
own anxiety to hide the real state of home
matters from his enfeebled mother. Lastly,
when she left him, of his feeling of loneliness —
lovelessness. In fact, Yyvian's state of mind
was the inner cry of so many of us : * Surely
some measure of joy is the just portion of each

son and daughter of man born on this earth.
Give ns that, Power that caused us to
breathe and suffer ! then we can die content.'
And he had not had his share ; he craved
it.

But, now, Violet gently reasoned with him.
It was not often that she could overcome the
reserve of her nature to speak in a manner
which was admitting another into the third and
innermost court, the holy of holies of her mind.
But to help, and heal, and comfort others there is
no earthly consolation to equal such words
spoken from the living heart, the eternal soul, of
a fellow-being who feels for us. And she felt for
him most truly, pitied him, marvelling she had
never guessed his inner sufferings until now,
having thought of him only as ' poor Cyril V one
rather weak in nature but very kindly, a little
given to melancholy, yet most good-natured.
How many others, however, had endured far
more sunless existences than his, yet lived noble
lives ; trusting in the perfect compensation and
utter happiness of that life to come, which, were
it not true, how should the beautiful idea of

justice have ever germinated in the human
brain.

An hour or so they talked thus. Violet had
meanwhile left her hand for a long time in Cyrirs
clasp. She knew intuitively it gave him a
sensation of being sympathised with, and, conscious
that hers was the stronger mind, she
pitied him. At last she gently drew it away.

In that long close conversation, they two had
come to know each other so intimately that
henceforth they could never feel mutually indifferent.
They must be friends, at least so
Violet felt : for to be shown the workings of
another's heart, to understand and feel with and
for that other, begets friendship. As to Cyril —
a warmer flame of admiration, respect, and
affection shot up within him. ' How good she
is I how true and womanly and lovable!' he
thought. The materials for the fire had long
been laid ; now they were lit.

Meanwhile, the mist had been imperceptibly
lifting and clearing from the mountain-side.

Look, look ! I see a star !' exclaimed Violet,
with a tone of joy. ISoou not one star only but

all the heavenly galaxy of our summer sky
shone out in glittering brightness; Cassiopeia
was as a sign of gladness to their eyes, and the
pole-star brought rejoicing to their hearts, for
Cyril hoped to be able to steer homewards by its
help.

But not for another half-an-hour did they
venture to stir from their position, while darkness
enveloped the mountain. Then the moon
sailed up, a silver globe of blessed light that
illumined at first only stray patches of the
rugged mountain-crest towering over the heads
of these two wanderers, then spread and spread
lower and wider till they could see the wild
majesty of the rocky scene around them, and
the glen sleeping far beneath, all steeped in that
soft radiance, except where some projecting cliff
threw its far inky shadow.

Then, aching and cramped but with reviving
spirits, they made their way step by step along
narrow sheep-tracks, and crept with outspread
hands around the base of jutting boulders, till
gradually they found themselves getting on
safer ground. Unhappily, to reach the glen

below, it was necessary to clesccud the shadowy
side of the mountain, and here their perils
recommenced. Nevertheless both were resolved
to essay it, when a distant halloo faintly struck
their ears.

They are searching for us. Shout, Cyril,
shout ! Look there,' cried Violet, laughing a
little wildly in her relief. Down in the darkness
of the valley two lights like will-o'-the-wisps
could be seen moving hither and thither. Cyril
shouted with all the force left in him, aided by
Violet's more feeble efforts, and there came at
once an answering call, while the lights moved
up the hillside towards them. In a few minutes
more they were surrounded by a group of
rejoicing friends, while exclamations of pity
and Wondering questions were buzzed about.

We have been searching on the moors for
the last two hours and more,' exclaimed Mr.
Blatherwick ; ' but, at first, when we missed you
on nearing the lodge, my wife persuaded me it
did not matter, and that you were safe to turnup
soon. Not that she was careless. Miss
Vyvian — don't think that! but she thought,

ahem ! you were both just loitering a little
behind, perhaps.'

It was hardly a day for loitering,' returned
Violet, slightly incensed, for she understood at
once Mrs. Blatherwick's tender supposition.

On reaching the lodge, however, Violet could not
long keep up any anger. Mrs. Blatherwick was
certainly vulgar, and often officious, but she was
kind to the heart's core and bitterly distressed
at the danger of the missing cousins. She was
alternately sobbing and piling peat on the fires,
preparing warm blankets and hot baths, so Margaret
Beaumont afterwards reported, while plying
the latter with lamenting queries as to what
could have happened V It appeared that Margaret
had ridden home the last four miles, taking
Dolly on her lap. But for this, the hue-and-cry
would have been sooner started, for when the
rest returned without the two Vivian, Mrs.
Beaumont was the first to be alarmed, and remembered
having seen them diverge towards the
mountain-side.

But I shall never cease to blame myself for
what might have occurred — except that you

look as blooming as ever (and indeed Billy said
last night that there was nothing like hot
whisky-toddy for pulling people together after
such an adventure, and so he made it extra
strong, as I told him ; only we both settled, as
you were put to bed, it would bu all the better
if it did send you straight to sleep), and so, —
what was I saying?' volubly explained Mrs.
Blatherwnck next morning, being one of those
people who tangle the thread of their discourse
much as a kitten ^vill a reel of cotton. ' Oh,
yes, I remember, it was about my own blame
in the business. Of course I never contemplated
any danger, so when Billy began
wondering why you two did not come up, I just
gave him a hint not to bother, as young people
don't like to be chaperoned to that extent —
especially up on the moors — and Mr. Vyvian I
kncAv, at any rate, would not thank me for spoiling
sport.'

I do not understand what you mean,
Mrs. Blather wick,' said Violet, with considerable
vexation and some stiffness. * My cousin and I
have always been good friends, but certainly

nothing more, which is what you seem to
hint.'

My dear Miss Vyvian, pi^ay don't be offended.
Fm sure, 1 would not say anything impertinent
or interfering for the work. I hate being meddlesome
: I do, indeed ! (and how Billy would scold
me if he thought I had vexed you even unintentionally,
for he has the greatest admiration for
our M.F.H., as he always calls you). But surely
the highest lady in the land may be worshipped
and only take it as her right ; " a cat may
look at a king," you know. And anyone can see
that your cousin is attached to you, my dear ;
why, one could tell it by \hQ look in his eyes
when he came downstairs this morning, he was
so anxious, no doubt, how you felt ! But, dear
me, I daresay a great many other men are
just as devoted to you and unhappy — only it's
no good. You can't help it ; so it's of no use
being squeamish about hurting their feelings.
If you don't care for him, you don't ; but there, I
don't suppose he even expects it.'

Thus Mrs. Blather wick, with a flattering apologetic
air and a parting volley of smiles, and

waves of the hand before she bustled off to the
kitchen (which she visited a dozen times a day),
tried to assure Violet that her hint ' did not
signify.' But somehow the girl felt uncomfortable.
It was true enough — although she had
never thought of it before — that Cyril did look
at her with a new light and a tenderness in his
glance ; also stray words, and other little suchlike
matters, returned to her memory.

In a day or two she could not but own to herself,
as she had some time ago suspected, that
without doubt Cyril was much more fond of
her than any plea of previous cousinly affection
would account for. He had fallen thoroughly
in love that night on the mountain, and insensibly
she had fed his hopes by her assurances
that she cared so little for * the things of this
world.'

At first Violet, being grieved, tried to keep
out of Cyril's way. Then she saw he did not
understand her motives; indeed, he asked her
with such disinterested affectionate reproach
whether she wanted to withdraw the friendship
she had shown him ' that night ' on the mound

II. P

tain, that she rightly guessed he meant to ask
no more — at present.

After all, Mrs. Blatherwick was right, the girl
reasoned. It was not her fault if Cyril cared
for her, so why distress herself. And then she
pitied him so really, and was firmly resolved she
would be his friend thenceforth, take interest in
his plans and doings, as he was so lonely and
shy (though people did not always know that),
be, in fact, a sister, and mentor, and cousin. But
this same pity is dangerous to women, and often
misleading.

Violet was well aware that at one time, not
long after she came into possession at Forde
Manor, Cyril seemed disposed to try for the
prize which gossip declared must certainly be
gained by either himself or Lord Guisard.
And in those days, not having seen Jack
Ramsay's face, she would most likely have
said, yes. Then Cyril's fancy had cooled again
to the old cousinly level. Without knowing, or
indeed troubling herself much as to his admiration
for Kate O'Brien, Violet vaguely suspected
the latter might be the deterrent cause. Even

had she known, Violet would have decided it
was no business of hers. Cyril, at least — therein
lay the sting of the thought — had not been
accused, like Jack Ramsay, of making love to
two women, two friends under one roof, at the
same time. And bitter thoughts rose in Violet's
mind.

Is Kate my evil genius '? Must she always
interfere with my happiness ? Why can she not
be content with the attachment of good, kind
Rufus, who is so devoted to her V

And then Violet would remember that, after
all, Kate had made herself very miserable, poor,
misguided soul!

P2

CHAPTER XIII.

A FRIEND IN NEED.

One evening, when they had returned from a
day on the moors, as usual, and found the
solitary post that never arrived till afternoon
awaiting them, Violet chanced to see a letter
lying addressed to Cyril beside her own correspondence.
It was in Lord Guisard's handwriting,
for she knew well the sprawling
schoolboy hand, having received some correspondence
from him in virtue of her office of
M.F.H., even had not Cyril in lifting it chanced
to show a coronet with a G.

Somehow, Violet could not help fancying that
her cousin looked desperately annoyed as he

read this epistle, whatever it might contain.
And. without doubt, Cp-il was not himself that
evening, playing his hand at poker so unusually
badly that he was rallied several times.

Next day, it was much the same thing.
Yyvian seemed to be thiiddng about something
that prevented him from beginning any subject
(^f talk himself, as he walked home with Violet,
whom he mechanically joined, down a wild
con-ie. The men had been shooting the side of
a sav mountain, and only towards evening the
ladies went out a mile or two to meet them.

What a magnificent sunset ! It is a feast to
the eyes,' said his cousin briskly.

Overhead the vault of heaven was like a
great bell of sweet blue air, closing softly down
on the far moors all round the horizon. Westward
a mass of fleecy clouds looked like a flock
of rosy sheep huddled together at the gate of
the setting sun.

Yes; very much so,' responded Cyril, absently,
staring at the sky with his thoughts evidently
on earth, for there was a troubled wrinkle
between his eyebrows. This was nut indicative

of interest ; so, hoping to cheer him, Violet 
changed her tactics.

I must tell yon, Cyril, that I have been thinking
about your house, and have a famous idea.
Its present situation is a bad one, so low in the
valley, as you agree with me. Now, why not
just leave it to stand this winter, or as long as
it can, without spending another shilling on it,
and meanwhile build yourself a comfortable
large wooden one. I have heard they are quite
cosy in winter ; and, if it did look like one's
idea of a squatter's dwelling, no matter so long
as it is pleasant and picturesque. And I have
been thinking as to wood and carpenters, that
both are positively ruining for want of use and
employment at Forde '

(Violet Alas about going on ingeniously to
demonstrate that it would be almost a boon to
herself if Cyril would accept the services of
two carpenters she kept constantly occupied;
besides a gift of the planks, which she calculated
would save him most of the expenses of the
plan in question. But he interrupted her.)

My dear, I have just been making up my

miiul that tliu repairs to the old house must
stand over for the present. But I fear even a
Wooden one will be just as much out of my
reach at present as a castle in the air.'

'Why, Cyril, you told me the other day you
had some money put by for the repairs. You
must have been losing it, somehow or other ;
betting, I suppose. Come, tell me all about it,
you naughty boy.'

Quite true,' acknowledged poor Yyvian, with
a face of chagrin. ' It was only something on
the Leger, and I thought myself safe to win.
Then when '* Timothy," which I had backed atone
hundred to eight to win me a good stake,
only managed to get third, I — well — I lost
more than I could afford. I did not expect to
be pressed for payment, as my bet — was — ahem !
with a friend.'

And Lord Guisard has done so V

Vyvian looked round at her in surprise.

'You are a perfect witch. How do you
know V

Very simply. I happened to see a letter
from him yesterday addressed to you; and

1 thought you seemed vexed after it. But,
Cyril, he is so well off, surely he is not dunning
you already V

That is precisely what he is doing. He is, in
fact, quite pressed for a few sovereigns in his
pocket, or so he seems to say.'

And Cyril laughed harshly, for Guisard's
large rent-roll was well-known ; as also the fact
that if he went out for a day's shooting over his
own farms he carefully desired his keeper to pack
up and bring home the remains of the lunch and
the last half-bottle of claret or beer !

May I see his letter '{ Do show it me ; I am
certain it is a model specimen of its kind,'
begged Violet, with a woman's curiosity. As
Guisard had done her the honour of a proposal,
she wished to see what stuff he would have
proved to be made of as a spouse.

Cyril hesitated, but presently rather weakly
assented, and drew the letter out of his pocketbook.
He could not easily refuse anything,
with his yielding nature, to the woman whom
he loved.

The epistle in question ran as follows :

Dear Vyvian,

It has perhaps escaped your
memory that you owe me two hundred aud
forty pounds on the Leger. I should be glad of
your cheque without delay as I am deuced hard
up. Hope you've been having good sport with
the grouse.

My mother had a couple of brace sent her the
other day, which she much enjoyed.

Yours sincerely, ' GuiSARD.'

Well, that is a precious communication,' exclaimed
Violet, indignantly. ' First he says to
a friend and neighbour, " Pay me that thou
west," taking him by the throat without having
any more patience than the wicked servant in
the parable ; and then he demeans himself to
beg in the same breath for the present of a few
birds. If grouse were as plenty as blackberries
he should never have one from me.'

Then, when she had vented her feelings freely
a little more, her annoyance beginning to amuse
Vyvian, in spite of his own, the girl said more
earnestly.

But, C}a-il, in a case like this, where you area
little pressed, you surely might allow your
friends to help '

No, no, no ; that is the last thing. I will not
listen to you any more,' exclaimed Cyril, laughing
nervously ; and he fairly turned and left
Violet, so as not to be exposed to further persuasion.


Major Ball promptly took the vacated place ;
and presently Violet roused up from puzzling in
her own mind over how she could possibly help
her cousin out of his difficulties, to find the little
major was holding a sentimental discourse for
her benefit.

Yes, as I say. Miss Vyvian, it makes me feel
young again to watch lovers' quarrels. I like
it; it's quite refreshing, upon my word. But,
still, if I were to offer an old man's advice to any
young couple — what are you smiling at ? I'm
over forty-five, quite in the sere and yellow — I
should say : My dear young people, don't amuse
yourselves in this way too long; marry, and
have done with it. Ah, Miss Vyvian, I'm an
example of what I mean ; put off marrying myself

when I might have done it. Long engagements
seldom come to any good misunderstandings,
meddlesome friends. So here I
am growing old, with no one to care whether I
come or go. 0, it's lonely ! (And of course I
can't marry iioic.) Sol should be very sorry to see
my friends who are younger make the same mistake.'
And he looked so significantly in Violet's
face, and then glanced with an approving air at
Cyril, that the girl coloured a little, realising for
the first time how she and her cousin were being
regarded. She tried to divert the major's
attention from her own concerns, by a return
attack.

But why should you not marry now, Major
Ball ? and practise what you preach.'

What, I ! Come, now. Miss Vyvian. Why,
supposing I got some nice girl of eighteen, or
even twenty, to marry me, don't you see she
would naturally be wanting to go out to balls and
parties, and stay up till all hours. And I'm nota
selfish brute; I should like lier to amuse herself.
But age tells — it does tell. I don't mind
stopping up at my club till one or two in a quiet

way, but to racket about until four or five in
the morning takes it out of a man of my time of
life.'

But then could you not choose some one a
little older?' inquired Violet, mischievously.
Even eighteen or twenty ;' she was herself more
than that, so was evidently rapidly aging.

*Why should If said the major, rather
busily. ' Of course all boys fall in love with
wx)men who are older than themselves, women
who know the world and are fashionable, and
have lots to say for themselves. I did so myself
when I was a young fellow. But my ideas are
quite different now. I would only care to marry
a girl who was quite young, and fresh, and
unsophisticated in all her ideas. Then she
wouldn't care to lead a quiet life with an old
gentleman like me ; so 1^11 just leave matters
alone— Hallo I Hallo !'

And the little man started off running at full
speed, trying to head a mountain hare that had
been startled, and was scudding towards them,
so as to drive it back towards Cyril's gun. He
was shouting as lustily as a noisy school-boy,

when be caught his foot in a twisted root, and
measured his length in the heather, wbieh untimely
ended the race.

Just like my luck to have handed my gun
to Alter to carry,' he complained, limping
back to rejoin Violet. ' Nov that would have
been a lovely shot ; just the kind of one that
never comes my way.'

His bearer quite agreed with him, for it was
remarkable what a capital band the major was
at every kind of sport, except what precisely
happened to come in ' his way.' She congratulated
the ' old gentleman ' on his agility,
and thought with an inward laugh that if he
ever attained a ripe three-score of years or so,
he would most likely be seen ogling the
occupant of a perambulator, according to the
backward progression of his fancy for the fair
sex.

The birds this last week were growing wild,
and the weather bad ; so a few days later the
party at Glenhoulachan was broken up. They
migrated south, with a small any of servants,
dogs, luggage, gun-cases, fishing rods, etc.

Half Scotland seemed to be jonra eying in the
same manner and direction ; and the scenes of
confusion at Perth station, and elsewhere,
resembled the meeting of angry tribes returning
from their yearly expedition to the hunting-grounds.


However, the second evening saw the mistress
of Forde and her neighbours quietly installed
once more in their respective homes.

Immediately on her return, Violet paid a
visit to her old family lawyer, whom she entrusted
with the charge of a pressing and
delicate little pecuniary transaction.

Two mornings after this Cyril Vyviah was
announced very shortly after breakfast. He
was looking especially well, his fresh fair face
heightened in colour by a rapid walk of nearly
a mile across the park, and his eyes shining
eagerly.

Violet, what is the meaning of this V he
asked, walking straight up to his cousin, and
taking her by both hands in some excitement.

I can't tell, indeed,' replied the girl, consciously,
and contriving to free her hands. ' It

is nut yet ten o'clock, and I must honestly tell
you 1 am in the middle of household matters.
I assure you that during my absence ever so
much of importance has " all gone to nonsense,"
as the Scotch say. My canary has been eating
her chuckles like any cannibal, and the horses
have forgotten how to neigh properly for their
sugar, and, as to the hounds, the puppies don't
know me, and '

Come ; that is no answer. Do you not know
that a sum of two hundred and fifty pounds has
been paid in to my account by some unknown
individual at the county bank V

Do I not know ? Does that mean, do I
know 1 Grammar always puzzled me, Cyril ; so
I hardly know what you mean. But, at all
events, I congratulate you, and am very glad to
bear the news.'

*Its no use, Violet. Of course, I am perfectly
well aware that no friend except yourself
would dream of so helping me. But it's
impossible — quite so — though you are an angel.
Don't you know, I told you already, I could not
allow anyone to help me.*

Just SO !' cried the girl, gaily, ' but no one
asks your permission. The deed is done ; yon
cannot help it.'

You are the dearest girl in the world !' Cyril
seized her hand, and kissed it rapturously, but
then with shining eyes stammered out : * Only
don't you see — it can't be done. To accept
money from you, a woman, to pay my bets
with Guisard. No, no ; just imagine ! how
could I respect myself. Besides, there is the

money I put by for house-repairs ' He was

still holding Violet's hand, and looked so
dangerously moved to tenderness that the latter
suddenly froze up a little, and answered, gently
freeing herself,

Well, as you wish. Pay Lord Guisard yourself;
but I hope still that you will accept my
offering as a loan. I am interested in your
having a whole roof over your head, as otherwise
you may fall a victim to catarrh, and
mourning for you will spoil my hunting. On
the most strictly selfish grounds, I shall be
desperately, irrevocably offended if you refuse.'

'As a loan, then. I can refuse you nothing!'

And Cyril looked indeed so fatuously at the
woman be now adored, it seemed as if any
resolutions, wishes, or will of his own, excepting
always his honour as a gentleman, would
melt like snow under a summer sun at a glance
of her sweet grey eyes.

Violet nervously caught up her hat.

Then do me a good turn, and come and give
me some advice both about hounds and horses.
Now that Rufus is away, there is so much to
be seen to.'

Cyril dutifully obeyed, and for the best part
of the morning followed Violet from kennels to
paddock, from stables to farm, proving himself of
material assistance; for in truth Miss Vyvian often
secretly felt she had rather much on her own
shoulders, but she liked looking into matters
occasionally herself, to be certain they Avere
thoroughly well done.

As they returned to the house, Vyvian was
just thinking that now he would have an
opportunity to say something that was in his
mind — something of deep interest — when Violet
turned towards him with a smile.

VOL. ir. Q

You have been most useful to me. Thank
you very much. But, now, may I treat you
frankly as a cousin and say good-bye ; for I
am so busy J

It was hardly frank treatment, however fair ;
for she guessed that the poor fellow was on the
verge of proposing, and wished to postpone
the ordeal and gain time to think over the
situation quietly.

Cyril was very obedient. He had no will of
his own, apparently, except to please her. As
Violet stood on the terrace watching him go,
he turned round, smiling back at her with a
lover-like expression there was no mistaking.
The girl sighed, and stood there downcast,
pondering in her own mind.

There came a pattering sound behind her, a
gurgling laugh, and a little body threw itself
with a rush upon Violet, embracing her with
short, fat arms.

We've come to see you, mother and I.
Didn't you want us badly I' exclaimed Dolly
Beaumont, in a consolatory tone.

We have come because Dolly's pity for whoever

does not always behold herself, or me, is
overwhelming,' laughed Dolly's mother. ' But
if you are busy, dear, we'll go.'

Certainly not. Of course one must have an
eye to things occasionally ; but, when one has
good servants, there is no use, as the proverb
says, in keeping a dog and barking yourself,* said
Violet, honestly; she was only turning to the
other side of the question.

Dolly slipped her warm paw into her older
friend's hand, gazing after Cyril's retreating
figure. Then, looking up in Violet's face, she
asked with roguish innocence,

Do you like 1dm as much as Uncle Jack — I
don't.*

You are a silly child, Dolly,' came in Margaret's
voice, with gentle reproof. * As it is
impossible you can have Uncle Jack to play
with now, you ought to be wise and glad to take
!Mr. Vyvian instead, who is always so kind to
you.'

That night, alone, Violet thought of the child's
words, and found herself in tears. But it was
a quiet grief, so after a while she l)egan to

q2

think matters out. Everyone seemed to say the
same thing, and was bent on pointing out her
wisest course, even Major Ball. Being a sensible
girl, Violet considered that perhaps the
opinion and experience of so many might be
right. Certainly she felt her life lonely, and
since she could never now have the man she
had loved best, perhaps she might learn to be
happy in the affection of a gentle kind husband
such as Cyril would make.

He seemed designed for her by fate ; and then
by marrying she could do him such an immense
kindness ! That was a great temptation.

Yet Violet went to bed undecided, and slept
badly.

CHAPTER XIV.

CYRIL GETS HIS ANSWER.

The next morning, Violet thought carefully over
her conversation With Cyril. She felt in her
own mind certain that he had yesterday intended
to ask her to be his wife, but she was then unprepared
to give him an answer. AVhat should
she do if he to-day came to the point ? She
could not disguise from herself that her cousin
was really and warmly attached to her, while
she — well ! lie was very fond of him, pitied his
lonely existence, that was so like her own — and
when once a woman's sympathetic pity for a
man is aroused it is often the first step towards
a warmer feeling. So it was with Violet, and

after battling hard in her heart with her feelings
towards Jack Ramsay she determined that
if to-day Cyril did ask her to marry him she
would not say nay. Only she must have time.
She would try' to make him a loyal true wife,
but he must not hurry her. In this resolve she
was strengthened at breakfast where several disagreeable
letters awaited her. Then her stud-groom
sent in word he would like to see her, as
Harlequin was not at all right. Breakfast
over, she strolled out to the stables, where Darley
met her with a rather long face, and with a
snatch at his forelock said,

Sorry to say, miss, 'Arlequin is very lame this
morning', and for the life of me 1 can't make out
what it's from. The 'loss came in from exercise
quite sound, and now he is as lame as a tree.'

Violet's face fell at this announcement. She
had no one to advise her, not even Rufus. Just
then a footman came out and informed his
mistress that Mr. Vyvian had called and
wished to see her. In her anxiety about the
horse, Violet for the moment forgot all that had
weighed on her mind, and the probable object

of Cyril's visit. She only remembered how ho
lead helped herewith advice on former occasions.
Perhaps he might be able to do so now. So
lie sent back a message asking him to come to
her at the stables.

In a few minutes Cyril appeared in the yard,
where Harlequin was standing surrounded by
a Icnot of stablemen, all volunteering their
opinion as to the seat of lameness.

I Cyril,' began Violet, ' I am so glad you
have come. Poor Harlequin is dead lame, and
we cannot make out where it is. Can you find
our

After having the horse trotted up and down
Cyril took off his coat and himself carefully
washed out the foot in which the lameness was
apparent; then taking out of his pocket a small
magnifying-glass, subjected the frog and solo to
a careful scrutiny. At last he said, with a smile
of triumph,

'Eureka! here it is; much as 1 thought
Give me a big knife, you will find in my pocket,
Darley.'

Opening the slade he carefully pared away a

piece of the horse's frog, and then taking out a
large pair of tweezers gradually drew forth a
piece of broken glass which he held up in
triumph.

Now,' he added, turning to the stud-groom,
put a carrot or turnip poultice on his foot, and
in a day or two I think he'll be all right.'

Well, I never !' exclaimed Darley. ' Who'd
ever 'a thought it ! I looked at his foot carefully
too, but my sight isn't as good as it was, miss,'
he added, apologetically.

"Really, Cyril, you are a first-rate vet., and as
long as you will doctor my horses I shan't
employ Mr. Sidelong any longer, and thus save
my pocket,' said Violet laughingly.

You know I'd do anything for you, Violet,'
returned Cyril, with a meaning glance ; which
observation, together with the look that accompanied
it, was lost, however, on Violet, who at
that moment turned to speak to Tom Hark-holder,
who had just come up.

Well, Tom, good-morning. Do you want to
see meT

Well yes, miss,' rejoined the old huntsman.

*I did want to ask you to come aud look at old
Lavender's puppies. You know she whelped
very late, just afore you came back from Scotland,
miss, and they are such a bountiful litter 1
can't make up my mind which to keep, and I
should like you to decide, miss. There's nine
on 'em, and it's too many for the old bitch to do
justice to.'

Now, Cyril, you see the troubles of a poor
lone woman,' said Violet, laughing. ' You must
come to my rescue again. Will you stroll down
to the kennels with me and decide the knotty
point V

Of course Cyril would. Would he not do anything
she asked him ?

And soon the little, round, sprawling puppies
were pulled, one after another, out of the straw-covered,
hurdled enclosure, with a comfortable
barrel at one end, which formed their kennel —
and were looked carefully over.

Well, Tom,' said Cyril, * I should keep them
all bar this one,' — holding up one he had in his
arms. * lie's not '* straight," and 1 don't like his
feet — they look weak. Old Lavender can manage

four very well, I should think, and you can
easily get a foster-mother for the other four.'

So the vexed question was settled, and, after
looking over the rest of the pack, Violet and
Cyril walked back together through the park.

It was curious what a change these last few

weeks had wrought in Violet's feelings towards

her cousin. Formerly she had regarded him asa

very good fellow — she was very fond of him

in a cousinly sort of way, and so on ; but now

her heart had insensibly warmed towards him.

she had been touched by his many little acts of

attention thought, and care for her. He had,

moreover, on several occasions helped her by

sound advice, and he, who seemed so incapable

of managing his own affairs, had yet benefited

her much by his timely aid. Then she was oh!

so lonely, and at last owned to herself she would

be the better for some man to lean upon — for a

man's decisive thought and action — one who

would shield her from the constant cares and

little everyday worries of life. Yes, she thought

she could love him in time, and was, in fact,

beginning to do so in a quiet way — not with

the passionate force of that love she had felt
for Jack Ramsay, but still in a calm and substantial
manner that she felt years might intensify,
now that her dream of love had stone for

They were pacing slowly along under an
avenue of beech-trees, of which the leaves,
turned yellow and brown from the combined
effects of a hot sun by day and early frosts at
night, were falling do^yn in golden showers as
the autumnal breeze stirred the tree-tops, and
they bowed and shivered as if they knew that
their short life was over, that they too must
lapse into decay. To us it always seems that
this falling of leaves in autumn is one of the
most pathetic sights in nature. In spring they
look so bright and cool and fresh ; then, when
fully expanded in sinner, how glorious they
are in their masses of verdant foliage ! how they
rustle and almost seem to speak and whisper to
each other when the breezes of June munnur
softly though them ! Then, when in September
they change their hue to lovely shades of
brown, red, and yellow (the beginning ot" trio

end, alas!) and commence to wither and curl
up, how like our own life when the finger
of Time lays his mark on us and turns the once
dark locks to silver, stiffens our once active
limbs, and deadens all sense of vitality within
us. Ah ! yes, we all know it, when the time
comes that we do not mount a strange horse
with the confidence we did once ; when driven
grouse as they flash past our butt, and rocket-ting
pheasants as they skim over the bare, high
tree-tops, are harder to see and more difficult to
hit ; when we like to linger over our lunch a
beetle longer and vow it is only so as to enjoy
the beauties of the wild, moorland scenery that
stretches away at our feet ; when we have to
put on glasses to read print we once could easily
see a yard or more away ; when a comfortable
arm-chair by the fire has greater attraction than
the bank of a Highland river on a wild and
stormy day ; in fact, when the toil consequent
son all sport is no longer a pleasure, and rest and
repose have a hitherto unknown charm.

Then, we long for the days of youth again.
Yet with age mercifully is given us, let us hope inmost

cases, contentment and resignation. Resignation
to the Divine will, and contentment to
leave to those who will follow us the enjoyment
of those faculties, and powers of mind and body,
that we once gloried in.

Cyril and Violet had walked on for some time
in silence — a silence which Violet felt was
beginning to be awkward ; so she broke it by
saying :

Really, Cyril, it is very good of you to have
taken so much trouble for me, and I am very
grateful to you. I don't suppose it would ever
have entered dear, stupid, old Darley's head to
have imagined that there was a bit of broken
glass in Harlequin's foot.'

You needn't thank me, dear. It was
very little to do, and I'd do anything in the
world for yon ; and then I was very fond of
old Jack, and know how he values the little
horse.'

At this allusion to Jack, Violet winced. How
fond everyone seemed of him ! Stills had now
steeled her heart and made up her mind to forgets
try to forget — all the past, and her

bitter disappointment in the estimate she had
formed of Ramsay's character.

I've got something to ask yon,' Cyril went
on, after a moment's pause, ' and yet I hardly
know how to do it. It's a great deal harder than
riding at the stifFest fence I ever went at in my
life. Then one knew that one would probably
get up after a fall, but if I come a cropper over
this one I feel I shan't get up in a hurry again,
as all my future depends on it. Will you help
me over it, Yiolet V

Yes, Cyril, I will if I can,' returned the girl,
frankly, bracing herself up, while she knew what
was coming.

Well ! it is this,' said Cyril, in a low tone and
almost with a touch of tremulousness. 'You
have thanked me for having been able at times
to be of some slight service to you. Will you
give me the right always to try to help you? to
shield you, as far as I can, from worry and
annoyance ? to be your companion through life
— to be your lover — your husband? Dearest,
don't say no — for God's sake ! My life is so
lonely — so miserable. No one cares for me.

Weak and foolish, 1 know I am, and full of
faults, but oh ! Violet, if you will help me I Axillary
to conquer them all for your dear sake,
and give you, though you now have it, an
honest man's true and loyal love. I know I am
not worthy of you — not worthy to black your
boots even ; but I do love you with all my heart
and soul, Violet — and perhaps some day you
may get to love me a little bit, and I will try,
oh ! so hard, to deserve your love. Do, my
darling, bring some ray of light into my wretched
life. Give me some hope.'

As he pleaded his cause Cyril had warmed into
almost eloquence, and his flushed and animated
features had assumed an air of resolve and
determination that they seldom wore. Ashen he
had concluded his passionate appeal, which
touched Violet deeply, she replied, with downcast
looks,

'I won't be prudish, Cyril, and tell you that I
have not expected this, for I have. I will be
frank and open with you. I did care for another
man, very, very much ; but,' with a tinge of bitterness
in her voice, ' I have been disappointed in

him. Like many another woman, alas ! I cannot
give you the first and freshest love of my
heart, but I am very fond of you, and perhaps,
if you will give me time, I may come to love
you as I ought. If you will be content with
this and take me as I am, I will say yes to your
question.'

God bless you for those words, my precious
one — God bless you ! You have made life now
seem bright and happy to me, and may you
never repent it. Give me one kiss, will you T
and Cpil's arm stole round the girls waist.

As Violet slowly and quietly turned him her
cheek, he kissed her passionately, and only the
sight of Mrs. Beaumont and Dolly in her little
carriage, appearing at the end of the avenue,
made him desist and return to the deportment
of everyday life.

It seemed as if the trifling attentions and little
aids Cyril bad shown her, had been the cause of
her engagement, whereas they really only were
the last straws that eventually turned the
balance of Violet's mind ; and how much we
all appreciate little kindnesses, little attentions.

little acts of thoughtfulness from others, when
our hearts are sore and torn and we long for the
sympathy of another soul.

And so Cyril got his answer, and Violet settled
her fate.

VOL. II. 11

CHAPTER XV.

TOO LATE.

EuFUS O'Brien and his wife were returning to
Force Manor one early October evening by the
express. Their journey from the West of Ireland
had been long and wearisome. But even
through the dark wastes of the Bog of Allan,
Kate had not shown any undue irritation with
the niggardliness of Dame Nature. Her good-humour
never flagged, on the contrary ; and she
was looking forward with the liveliest feelings
of relief and satisfaction to the coming winter.
Her visits in Ireland to her husband's kindly but
very needy relatives had been distasteful, and
staying at country inns along the Connaught

coast had proved still more disagreeable. What
a blessing not to hear everlastingly about boycotting,
and non-payment of rents, words that
were of ill-savour in her nostrils ! she had been
in the desist but was going back to the fleshpots
of Egypt.

Kate O'Brien had thought over her own
behaviour to Violet during these months of
absence, and in spite of much self-excuse and
self-pity yet somewhat blamed herself, solemnly.

I do, and I don't repent !' she concluded.

No, she would not repent as regarded her
conduct towards Jack Ramsay. Conscience
might say what it pleased, her passionate
temper still sprang up and defended that lie ;
not now boldly, however, as uttered for her own
ends, but by ingenious subterfuges contriving to
assure herself it had been necessary to Violet's
real happiness.

It would have been madness I I saved her
from committing a folly she would have regretted
bitterly afterwards,' declared Kate to
herself; then more uneasily, 'And, n'hat's done
can't be undone.'

R 2

She had saved Violet ; that was a real kindness
in disguise. ' But I gave way to my own
feelings too much afterwards. They are too
highly strung, and I can not control them at
times. Well, now I mean to turn over a new
leaf henceforth, and try my very best to be
good to poor Violet and really sisterly ; I will
make it all up to her ; we shall be perfectly
united, and, after all, I really care for her more
than almost anyone else, and she could never
get on without me.'

Kate's imagination fairly glowed with her
virtuous resolves. She foresaw a long life at
Forde, when she would help Violet Vyvian to
be as perfectly happy as a single woman in so
enviable a position could be. Her prospective
goodness so impressed her own mind that Kate
felt quite saint-like during the journey, and
she mildly reproved Rufus for Swearing at a
porter.

There is nothing like patience and good-humour,
dear,' she remarked.

Everything in season,' retorted Rufus, testily.
* But it strikes me it's better to look sharp

Avheii some one else is AvalkiDg off with ycnir
luggage.'

They were both glad, indeed, to aught at
last, and find the Forde carriage waiting for
them.

What a comfort it is to come home,' uttered
Kate, unconsciously sinking back among the
cushions with a luxurious sense of wellbeing.
' I must tell Violet what a stiff neck I
got on the Irish cars, from always sitting sideways
but wanting to look ahead in a natural
way.'

As she spoke, the footman came to the carriage
door and delivered a note that .Bliss Vyvian had
sent to meet Mrs. O'Brien. Kate idly wondered
what message it could contain, and bent forward
to read it by the waning light, as they started.
She gave a choked exclamation ; then, apparently
disbelieving lier senses, read it over andover.


What is the matter, at all V exclaimed Rufus,
in growing alarm. * Is she ill, or wdiat V

'She is engaged to be married — to Cyril
Vyvian,' answered Kate, in a trembling tone.

She has only written a few words ; that it is
best to tell us, but she does not wish it generally
known yet.'

Rufus drew in his breath.

Whew — that is a surprise !' After two or
three minutes of silence in the carriage, he
uttered again, 'Upon my word, that rather
knocks one out of time a bit, doesn't it now V
Another little space of mutual silence ; then the
good fellow gave his knee a hearty slap, exclaiming,
' Come ! after all, it is the right thing
for both of them, and I'm very glad of it . 1
am ! If it had not been that I took so much
pains with those young hounds in summer, and
thought they would be a credit to myself this
winter, I'd have been glad of it the first moment.
But there is no man I would rather give them,
and the horses, up to than Cyril — barring always
Jack Ramsay. And that is another thing that
rather beats me, for I fancied somehow that
Violet liked him. Well, well; no doubt it is all
for the best.'

Kate remaining silent, he forbore to urge
just then the duty of unselfish rejoicing upon

her, except by his owu cheery example. And
when they entered the great hall at Forde, with
its accustomed welcome of pleasant fire-glow
and lights, and Violet herself coming shyly yet
warmly to greet them from her invitingly spread
tea-table, he gave the girl such a great squeeze
of the hand and hearty whisper of genuine
gladness at her news, that Kate scornfully
thought within herself,

Is he a hypocrite, I wonder V

She had merely murmured, presenting her
cheek to Violet to be kissed, with a languid
manner suggesting weariness of travel.

So glad you are happy, dear. I wish you
all joy.'

Violet showed some haste to quit the topic,
although the warmth of O'Brien's good wishes
lead brought a pleased glow to her face. Soon
after forcing herself to drink some tea, Mrs.
O'Brien pleaded intense fatigue, and retired to
her room for the remainder of the evening, not
even appearing at dinner. She wanted to
collect her nu'nd ; she was fairly appalled at the
turn of events.

Next day, however, Kate came down a little
pale, but smiling.

And when is it to be, dear V she asked jocularly
of Violet, when they first found themselves
alone. ' Of course, like all young people, you
are in a desperate hurry to slip your necks into
the noose — I mean, tie the happy knot. I suppose
the fond lover has already been pressing
you to name the nuptial day, " without delay,"
as the song says.'

We have not even discussed that yet,' replied
Violet, coldly, feeling vexed she could
hardly say why. There was a something in
Kate's tone that jarred upon her. She suspected
the latter was secretly scoffing at her
for so soon giving up the memory of Jack
Ramsay, and poor Violet was ready to be hurt
at that, though believing she had done right.
You know that I do not wish my engagement
announced at present. The marriage will not
be for some time, at all events ; there is no need
for haste.'

(' " My " engagement j " the " marriage, not
ours'" She is shying from the thought of it')

exulted Kate iii secret. She said no more, but
her spirits went up with a bound ; she felt as if
reprieved under a sentence of banishment. Her
elation even helped her to meet Cyril with an
easy laugh, and look him full in the eyes with
more unconcern, she hoped, than he had shown
towards herself at their last meeting.

I must congratulate you on doing the right
thing, Mr. Vy van. You and Violet are the two
most sensible people I know ; and I trust you
"will both be as happy as — 2iQ possible,' she said,
in a high clear voice.

Violet, who was standing by, looked up a
little puzzled at that word ; what did it exactly
mean? So did Mrs. Beaumont. They had all
assembled for lunch at Forde Manor.

Vyvian, however, who had secretly felt a
little uneasy as to how Kate would receive the
news, was relieved.

She had masked her really scornful anger
at his defection so successfully that he said to
himself,

Thank goodness, she takes it so well ; with
her temper one could not be certain. But she

is a little vexed, poor thing, I can see. Well,
after all, that is only natural.'

And, being human enough, Cyril felt a sense
of satisfaction stealing over him at the idea. It
had all been very wrong. He thanked heaven
devoutly that he was free from that mad passion
now, to which he looked back with uneasy
wonder. Yet still, it was only a fitting retribution
that the fair woman who had so vexed his
soul should feel chagrin now that he had escaped,
from her toils. Cyril fairly trembled to think
how close he had been to the brink of social
ruin for her sake. She was his evil star in those
days, a temptress; it galled him even now
(when all was over between them) to remember
how Kate O'Brien had lured him on, bewitched,
maddened, and then spurned him.

But presently, in the sweet atmosphere that
seemed to surround Violet like sunshine, with
the soft radiance of her eyes turned now and.
again upon him, Cyril forgot all unworthy
thoughts ; and, with a wholesome, honest love
entirely possessing his mind, he felt a better,

happier man than ever before iu his Kfe. He
seemed to himself iu Paradise.

A fool's paradise,' commented Kate, mutely.
She was watching his little attentions to Violet
with sombre eyes ; his looks of shy devotion, his
dog-like eagerness to hear, to serve, and to obey,
all transferred to the girl ; and they had once
(though not openly) been hers !

Wait, my friend, Cyril, and see who laughs
last. If a wedding is put off so long without
any reason, it may never come off at all. I will
trust to chance.'

As the days passed on, however, and Cyril
and Violet seemed to remain on the best of
terms, though in a cousinly more than dovelike
fashion, Kate grew uneasy and paced her room
sometimes like a caged savage creature, fretting
against what she feared was the inevitable.
All her good resolves of patience, real love towards
Violet, sisterly devotion, were melted.
But she thought of them with regret as impossible
now to be put into execution ; a fair dream
gone.

I would have been so good, but it is enough
to make one wicked !' she exclaimed aloud one
day when alone ; and was startled to hear her
own voice.

Then once more the envious woman set herself
to thinking, thinking, how to prevent this
hateful marriage. ' It would be easiest done
before the engagement is known in the county,'
she soliloquised. Yes ; but how to do it ? At
last a sudden idea illumined Kate's brain. ' It
is a trump card, and I must play it !' she declared,
her features lit up with a strangely-blended expression
of reluctance, and determination, and
wonder as to the result. ' If this fails, chance
may help me ; meanwhile, I will try to help
chance. There is a last resource — but I hope
Cyril will not force me to that meanwhile,
Violet can't really care for him, and he only
wants her money. She thinks she needs a
companion and protector, I suppose ; rubbish !
As if Rufus and I were not enough, as to that,
without sharing her kingdom with a husband.'

At other times there was no more paltering
with her conscience in Kate O'Brien's mind ;

no more self-deception that she was doings the
best for Violet's weal. ' It is the best for myself,'
she thought passionately, with quickened
breath. Then her heart beat hard as she felt
utterly overcome at thought of the privations,
disagreeableness, and even hardships that would
be her own portion in life, when she and Rufus
lost their footing in Forde Manor.

Was any poor woman ever so worried and
harassed?' she bewailed herself. 'One must look
after one's-self in life. Self-interest is the first
law in human nature, I have heard. I am son-y !
but all is fair in love or war.'

Short of allowing Violet to marry, Kate was
ready to make any sacrifice ; would have
blacked her friend's shoes, so to speak. But the
resolve to stay at Forde, by any means, had
utterly possessed her soul, and borne down all
other considerations. She knew too well now
what life in Ireland with Rufus meant. At
moments she regretted wildly having stopped
Violet's engagement to Jack Ramsay, for then
Cyi-il would have been master at Forde, and —
and

But she still loved Ramsay passionately,
and she was growing almost to hate Vyvian.

Our friend Kate took the news of your
engagement to Cyril V^-vian pretty well,
apparently ?' remarked Mrs. Beaumont one day
to Violet, with assumed carelessness.

Yes. Why should she not ?' Violet turned
her sui-prised grey eyes upon her friend. It
never dawned upon her understanding that Kate
could oppose her marriage out of pure selfishness,
or look upon the O'Briens' position at
Forde as eternal. The little widow had some
shrewd suspicions on that point, but thought it
wisest to keep them to herself.

Hunting had now begun again. ^\'ith the fall
of the leaf and the mellow, shortening days of
browTi October. Violet was glad of it this year,
beyond any former season.

It gives one something to do, Cyril,' she said,
with a slight restlessness of manner that was
now growing habitual to her.

'To do ! As it" you are not busy from morning
to night. You really don't know how to rest

and be happy, I believe was Cyril's adding
yet reproachful answer.

He never could draw Yiolet into long lovers'
talks, of that vague delightful nature when
much is said, though little can be afterwards
remembered; yet she would disease sensible
topics by Hie hour with him, consult him on
new improvements and all manner of useful
plans. As: V yvi 3. „ gently but vainly expostulated
with his promised bride on the utter disregard
of danger she began to show in the
hunting-field. Her manner was quiet as ever,
but there was wel-nigh recklessness in the cool
way she took fences, the sight of which latter
caused many a man of the Marshwood Yale
Hunt to feel his courage ebbing, while he
glanced round for a handy gate. Then, too,
her eye had never been so keen in the smallest
trifle concerning the hounds, her tone of voice,
if suggesting reproof, so resolute in its delicate
severity.

Ah, Miss Vyvian, you are showing yourself
the M.F.H., and no mistake, this wear,' exclaimed

old Squire Bentley, jogging home beside her one
day. ' But, my dear child, you ride too rashly,
you do, indeed ; believe an old man who was
your father's friend. By the Lord Harry !' (the
old man's pet expletive), ' you took that big
double to-day, that even / would not dream of.'

In spite of Squire Bentley's pleadingly parental
tone of affectionate remonstrance, Violet
could hardly forbear laughing outright ; for her
good old neighbour's courage had not waxed in
proportion with his years and stoutness.

A month had now elapsed since the return
of the O'Briens. Kate had been biding her
tiaie since the conception of her plan of campaign,
for too great haste might have aroused
suspicion. But she resolved to delay no longer.

'Let us see if the new nail has quite driven
out the old one. I will play off Jack Ramsay
against his friend,' she bitterly laughed.

The hall at Forde was used as a general
sitting-room ; its ample dimensions contained
all manner of couches and easy-chairs, inviting
to drop into when people came home tired
from hunting, and were glad to get out of their

splashed pink coats, or habits, and to lounge
round the great fireplace. iVt one end a 
table with a marble top stood
against the wall, and on it the letters which
came by the afternoon post were always left.
Day by day Mrs. O'Brien would pass through
the hall, and glancing round to assure herself
that no one was there, or on the stairs, she
would softly put her shoulder to this table,
trying to push it from the wall. It was a massive
piece of furniture, and often she had to
desist on hearing a step, her cheeks stained in
two scarlet patches from the exertion.

At last Kate perceptibly moved the table a
little, barely enough. Next day she tried
again, putting out all her strength in a long-sustained
effort. It stirred ; triumph I There
was a crack of space visible between it and the
wall. But, as Kate raised herself, a spasm of
pain shot through her side so sharply she was
obliged to lean upon the table, and put her
handkerchief rapidly before her mouth to prevent
herself giving a little scream. She had
strained herself severely, so she knew, as she

VOL. II. S

crept upstairs with slow footsteps, catching her
breath.

For a few days Kate was unable to hunt,
and was obliged to complain of rheumatism.
It was a great privation to her to lose her
chief amusement, ' but no matter, success is
worth it,' she told herself, with a fortitude
worthy of a better cause. Violet was most
affectionate in her attention and sympathy during
her friend's ailment, but she could not
prevail against Kate's obstinate refusal to see a
doctor.

One evening after this — she remembered it
afterwards so well ! — Violet came home tired
and a little depressed from a long but disappointing
day's hunting. A sense as of coming
trouble had hung over her like a cloud
since morning. She chid herself in vain, tried
to fight against the absurd oppression, but it
would not be shaken off. Cyril had jogged
home beside her, and turned in at the Forde
gate on the ostensible plea that he would like
to just wait for a cup of tea ; which meant a
glass of sherry and a precious half-hour longer

to be spent in the society of the girl for whom
his love was rapidly becoming an infatuation,
which bid fair to rob him of everyday commonsense.


Violet excused herself for a few minutes, and
presently came downstairs, having exchanged
her habit for a comfortable tea-gown of silver-grey
plush that Alas an old friend when she
returned home tired.

That dress does suit you so wonderfully well.
I like to see you in it best of all whispered
Cp-il, feasting his eyes upon his cousin, whose
rose-leaf tinted face and sunny hair certainly
showed to unusual advantage above the exquisitely
fitting bodice, and trailing skirts of
which the hue would have tried a paler or less
pure complexion. Imperceptibly Violet winced at
the compliment, for it so happened that Jack
lead told her last spring this very dress of hers
was his favourite, and she had often worn it
merely to please him. She turned towards the
dainty tea-equipage, and absently busying her
fingers was suddenly vexed to find herself pouring
a glass of kiimmel instead of cream into her

s2

tea-Clip, when there came an exclamation from
Kate at the other end of the hall.

How provoking ! I was just going to take
up a letter of mine that was lying here, when it
slipped down between the back of the table
and the wall. What shall I do V

It is very strange,' said Violet, coming
forward to examine the same marble-topped
table, upon which Kate had secretly tried her
strength of late. ' 1 never noticed before that
the table was out from the wall. We will ring
for the servants.'

Mrs. O'Brien began explaining, with laughing
volubility, that she had propped her epistle idly
against the wall behind in order to study its
address, a silly trick, she owned, when pop ! the
letter disappeared.

Meantime, the united strength of two powerful
footmen moved the great marble weight a
few inches, when to the surprise of those watching
two letters fell to the ground.

Halloa !' ejaculated Rufus. * Who owns the
second one V

The solemn butler picked up both, and

restoring Kate her property carefully dusted
the other letter, which seemed to have lain
hidden some time judging from its appearance,
and brought it to his mistress on a salver. At
the first glance Violet recognised the writing ; it
was from Each Ramsay ! In spite of a sudden
heroic effort at self-control, she felt herself flush
slightly, then turn pale, and her hand trembled
as she examined the post-marks.

In the background Kate, unseen, was standing
watching Violet's face with eagerly fixed
eyes ; she was obliged secretly to support herself
upon the back of a chair, and her breath
came in frightened pants.

Violet raised her eyes slowly, turning a look
of such rebuke upon her butler as that faithful
old family servant had never received from her
before.

This letter — from its date — must have been
lying where you found it for some months.
What have you to say for such carelessness?'
Her voice, though low, and slightly broken, was
so stinging in its quiet anger that the ponderous,
respectable functionary seemed to shrink visibly

smaller in this shoes, and, though conscious of
innocence, confounded himself in excuses and
apologies. With a wave of her hand, Violet
cut these short, and dismissed him with orders
to replace the table, and in future to bring all
her letters to her own private study.

The fatal letter still lay unopened on her lap.

(' Will she not read it? I want to see her

face ') thought Kate, with a craving of

curiosity that amounted to cruelty. She tried
to ask, ' What is your letter, dear ? I hope,
nothing of importance;' but the words stuck fast
upon her lips.

Violet, with a determined calm of manner,
went on with her duties as hostess. After an
hour or so Cyril reluctantly took his leave ; and
at last this betrothed was set free. She left the
hall straightway, and going to her own study,
where her privacy was never invaded, locked
the door for further security ; then with a beating
heart she began to read Jack Ramsay's
letter.

*******

An hour later, Violet had hardly stirred from

the same position. But now her head was
bowed ; the letter was touched, rather than held
between her icy, nerveless fingers; and she
dully felt as if her faculties were numbed.
Sometimes she thought heavily: —

What a heartless wretch I must be — I do
not feel this pain so much ; not so levy much.
It is quite bearable — I may live to be an old
woman with it !' Vaguely surprised at her own
supposed apathy, the girl lifted her head once,
and saw her haggard reflection in a long mirror
opposite ; she looked years older.

Perhaps I do care more than I think,' she
said to herself, in a stupid sort of way. Then
the words of Jack's noble and manly letter at
which her eyes were still staring, that seemed
stamping themselves indelibly in her brain,
seemed to ring through her head like a cr}^ : ' I
have given you all my heart. Oh I my darling,
my darling, do not crush it and throw it away
from you. If you care for lands and wealth
more than for me *

Those were true words ; whatever Kate had
said, however impossible to reconcile the

versions of these two persons, Violet believed
him. Kate could not willingly have spoken
untruth, but vanity and passion might have
turned her brain.

Then the remembrance of her sacred promise
to Cyril, the awful hopelessness of the situation,
rushed like a wave over the girl's mind, blotting
out happy memories of other looks 'and words
of love. Too late ! too late I she moaned in
anguish. Had this letter but reached her intime,
what a difference it would have made in
her life through the long years to come !

CHAPTER XVI.

AN ELECTION ROW.

The hinting-season was fast drawing to a close,
and budding primroses betokened the advent
of an early spring. The winter had been an
unusually open one, enabling the Marshwood
Vale Hunt to enjoy a succession of capital runs.
Scent had been good, there had been little or
no frost, the cubs, having been well rattled in
the autumn by old Tom Harkholler, lead been
taught the way they should go, and in the
majority of cases broke covert at the first note
of a hound, or at the slightest touch of a hon.
So with good weather and straight-necked foxes,
the members of the Hunt had good cause to

congratulate themselves on one of the best
seasons upon record. Violet had never ridden
so hard as she had during this season, so hard
and straight on occasions that Cyril had frequently
and earnestly remonstrated with her
for incurring unnecessary risk, and begged her
for his sake to be more careful ; but his protests
had always been met with a light laugh, and the
conversation turned aside. On one occasion she
and Cyril Avere the only two who safely negotiated
a very stiff double with a yawning ditch
on each side. As they galloped on side-beside
over a large pasture-field, Cyril said to
her,

Oh ! darling. I wish you would not ride at
such fences. You don't know what I felt when
I saw you charge that place.'

You surely don't want me to show the white
feather, Cyril,' the girl replied, with a little upward
curl of her lip) then, seeing a look of pain
shoot across his features, she continued, brightly,
with a touch of mischievousness : ' Besides,
you know it is my duty to follow you, and Harlequin
can go anywhere, can't you, old man

she added, bending forward, and patting the
horse's neck as ho reached at his bridle, With
pricked ears and a snort of pride.

There Alas no gainsaying this latter argument
which flattered Cyril's vanity, and so perforce
he had to give in, as man generally is obliged todo
when he expostulates, or attempts to argue,
with lovely but wilful woman. In her own
mind, however, Violet could not but admit that
she was wrong, and that this hard riding on her
part Alas the result of an inward craving for
some form of excitement. This she felt she
mist hare route que route, and once hounds
began to run, and she Alas mounted on that bit
of equine perfection. Harlequin, all good resolves
to consult Cyril's Lavishes, that she might have
previously formed, seemed to Spanish like magic,
the delirium venatico took entire possession of her,
and her only Lavish Alas to realize that most
delightful of all delightful sensations : being well
earned to hounds by a good horse.

As yet, by Violet's special request, her engagement
had still been kept a secret from
the county at large, nor Alas the Averting-day

fixed. Cyril had constantly pressed her on this
latter point, but hitherto her arguments against
naming any date had so far prevailed. She
must wait till the season was over ; a trousseau
could not be got in a few days, and she must
have some time in town ; these and a hundred
other excuses turned the tables in her favour.
The truth was, that though Violet, after mature
consideration, had determined on eventually
marrying her cousin, yet, as the time drew nearer
for the fulfilment of her promise, she could
not help feeling a certain unwillingness towards
taking the final step which would bind her for
life in the fetters of matrimony, and make it
even a sin for her to indulge in those happy
dreams of what might have been, but which
now seemed gone for ever.

Kate O'Brien too did her quiet utmost to put
in the thin edge of a wedge whenever she could
to stop any progress in the matter. Once Cyril,
being annoyed and disgusted at this, turned
upon her with some heat.

You back up Violet of course, Mrs. O'Brien,
but surely you might think a little of me ; and

all this delay is trying to a man.' They two
were alone with Rufiis iu the latter's especial
sanctum at the moment, and, Violet being
absent, the opportunity seemed a good one to
Cyril to put Kate in her proper place. The
latter raised her eyes, and looked at him slowly
with a demure, meaning smile.

1 do think of you, Mr. Yyvian ; indeed, I am
consulting your best interests in advising you to
take plenty of time to look before you leap.
Men are so fickle, you might change your mind
about Violet, you know I'

Vyvian made a movement of indignant impatience.
(' Just like a cat,' he thought, ' spitting
at me but afraid to show fight')

A jolly laugh from Rufus ended the colloquy.

Don't mind her chafe*, Cyril, my boy. Upon
ni' word, 1 believe Violet is just hesitating, like
a dear little soul, because she does not want to
give us the turn-out in a hung ; as if we minded
—but she is so soft-hearted. That's it, Vyvian,
I'm afraid; just too much goodness.'

We shall never get the turn-out if I can help
it,' mused Kate secretly, smiling. She knew

Cyril thought she did not mean to fight. Wait !
he shonkl see.

All this time Kate O'Brien was watching
Violet very closely, with a sharp remorse ever
growing upon her. She knew in October last
that the girl must have felt deeply the incident
of Jack Ramsay's letter ; and even guessed that
Violet had been shaken to her soul by it. But
as the wintry days came and passed, and that
neither by Avoid nor deed did Violet show any
signs of breaking off her engagement ^vith Cyril,
a certain admiration mingled with pity began
to grow in Kate's breast.

She keeps on looking so pale and listless
compared with her former self. Is she never
going to get brighter again V she first thought,
impatient with the grief she had herself caused.
Then after awhile her mood changed. ' Poor Violet,
how unhappy she is ! and she thinks no one
knows it. She does riot love Cyril ; all she feels
for him is only liking and respect. She is
grieving in secret, but will never break her
word. I wonder if these highly honourable
people are any happier than others ?

Well I I believe it would be a charity to set
her free.'

All these thoughts kept working like leaven
in Mrs. O'Brien's mind. The upshot was that
she became far more unhappy than Violet.
She reproached herself even bitterly at times,
but thought she could not retrace her steps on
the downward path. Her deceit had indeed
woven a tangled web ; but often she would
have given almost anything — almost have
renounced the luxuries of Forde and her own
ease and enjoyment in future — to undo the
past, and not see Violet's pallid cheeks and
changed smile with its sad expression.

An accident, however, occiUTed at last which
showed Violet the strength of Cynl's affection
for her, and stirred her own feelings in grateful
response.

A few months previously, a general election
had taken place. The politicians who held the
reins of government resigned upon a party
question, after being in office only a few months,
and the country was again called upon to
decide between the rival merits (^f Conservatives

and Liberals. The political point on
which the approaching battle was to be fought
was one of the burning questions of the day,
involving the unity of the Empire, and most
people who had hitherto given but little thought
to politics now suddenly woke up to a sense of
their responsibility. Rival orators stumped the
country, from end to end, each in turn vowing
emphatically that their opponents were the
most unmitigated of rascals ! Party spirit ran
high ; those who had hitherto been good friends
now exhibited a certain coolness in their
demeanour towards each other when they met.
Ladies joined political leagues and organizations,
working assiduously among the labouring
classes with a view to obtaining their
votes, and endeavouring to drum into the thickhead
of Hodge his (now-a-days) political importance.
Amongst others, Violet, who was a
keen Conservative, had been particularly energetic,
and for this cause had drawn down upon her
devoted head the denunciation of the Radicals.
This odium, Cyril, who was a hardworking
member of the Conservative committee, also

shared, for he had taken active part in canvassing
and also in speaking at meetings.

In the immediate neighbor-hood of Forde
Manor, where Violet was universally beloved and
respected, the Radical tu-aces against landowners
had taken but little effect. Most of the population
had known her from a child, and her whither
before her, and they knew that in sorrow or
trouble the late squire had been their true
friend, as ready to help them with words of
heartfelt sympathy as with his purse. At last
the polling-day arrived, and Cyril before starting
went over to Forde to wish Violet good-bye,
for he was not to return till the following evening.
Violet had been anxious to drive over to
the county-town with him, but he had dissuaded
her.

I should like to come, Cyril. I have never
seen an election, and it feels as if one were
ashamed of one's colours not to put iu an
appearance,' she had urged.

I wouldn't have you come for worlds, dear.
It is not the place for a lady. There are certain
to be a lot of roughs in the town, and I

VOL. II. T

won't have you run the chance of getting
hustled.'

I hope you will keep out of any rows, Mr.
Vyvian ; it would not do for our bridegroom-elect
to get his head broken !' put in Kate, sarcastically.


Cyril flushed up as he replied,

Thank you for your advice, Mrs. O'Brien.
Though there probably will be some " wigs on
the green " before night, I hope mine won't be
among the number.'

Why shouldn't Kate and I drive over tomorrow
in the pony-tandem to hear the result
of the poll ?' said Violet, with sudden inspiration.


Well, there can be no harm in that,' returned
Cyril. ' If you will be over at the " Queen's
Head " by twelve o'clock, I will meet you.'

Very well, ' replied his cousin, brightening
up ; ' now be a good boy and take care of yourself.'


Yes, take care of yourself, Mr. Vyvian,' called
out Kate, as Cyril got into his dog-cart. ' We

will bring over some sticking-plaister, however,
in case it may be wanted. Accidents will
happen, you know !'

The following morning, owing to some delay
in starting, Violet, when she reached the town
of Stockings, heard the poll had been declared,
and the Conservative candidate returned
by a large majority, much to the disgust of the
Radical party ; and when she reached the High
Street found that thoroughfare blocked by a
dense, shouting, yelling crowd which her ponies
had some difficulty in getting through. Her
leader becoming fidgety and frightened at all
the noise, the groom jumped down and went to
his head in order to keep him quiet and endeavour'
to make a way for miss Vyvian through
the crowd. The continued tumult, however,
upset the pony's nerves completely ; he began
to dance about, and in doing so one of the
Radical roughs was a bit hustled. This was
the signal for a general row, and afforded a
good excuse for l)eghuiing.

Dang thee, thou Tory flunkey, where

T 2

be coming' tew ? tak' that !' shouted one brawny
ruffian, knocking off the groom's hat ; ' thick
abandoning missus o' thine can easy git ye a
new 'un,' he added, with a coarse oath.

Maybe the young 'woman wouki Hke a fresh
egg for her lunch,' shouted another, and thereupon
flung a rotten one at Violet, who had just
time to put her arm up to avoid being struck in
the face by the unsavoury missile.

All this time the ponies were plunging about
half mad with terror, and it was all Violet
could do to keep them from dashing into the
crowd.

We don't want no 'until' swells 'ere,' shouted
another rough ; which remark all his friends
applauded with shouts.

Things were beginning to look serious. Kate,
her face flushed with anger and annoyance,
tried to seize Violet's whip with the intention of
lashing their assailants ; but this the courageous
girl would not allow. She never lost her presence
of mind for a moment. A quiet smile
played round her mouth, and her face wore an

air of fixed determination as lie gazed at the
sea of coarse, upturned, angry faces.

Well, you are a plucky set of men to attack
a couple of defenceless women like this,' she
observed, ' but it is what one might expect.
You don't know better. Only if I were a man
I would give some of you a lesson that you
would not soon forget. As to you, Tom
Sloucher,' she added, addressing the man who
had begun the row and who was a notorious
poacher, ' you at all events, ought to be ashamed
of yourself.'

The man looked abashed, and slunk away
into the crowd, which was now giving way
before the vigorous onslaught of a number of
the Marshwood Vale farmers, led by young Pile,
and Cyril.

The latter had seen Violet approaching and
the subsequent aneute with alarm, and, knowing
low helpless he would be to aid her
alone, had quickly collected some of \\\o, stout
yeomen of the Hunt, who were only too delighted
at the prospect of breaking a few

Radical heads and rescuing their beloved young
M.F.H.

Forrard, my lads, give it the rascals !*
shouted Cyril, laying about him with a stout
stick ; and to such good effect did he and his
relieving party ply their weapons that they
speedily forced a way up to Violet's pony-cart.


That's the man who began it, sir ; it was he
who knocked my hat off,' said the bare-headed
groom, pointing to a great, hulking blackguard,
whose coarse, unshaved, beetle-browed face,
surmounted by a cat-skin cap, showed only
too plainly that he belonged to the genus
'rough,' an animal much averse to doing
any honest labour ; more addicted to bullying
anyone weaker than himself, and capable of
swallowing unlimited quantities of beer in the
precincts of low pot-houses.

You infernal scoundrel, what do you mean
by attacking a lady in this cowardly manner V
said Cyril, turning on the man.

'Who be yew, yer little cock-sparrer? mind

yer own business, or I'll knock your head

off,' was the rejoinder.

Oh ! you'll knock my head off, will you ?
Well, if you've an ounce of pluck in that great,
beer-sodden carcase, take your coat off, and I'll
give you the chance.'

Yes, yes, Tom, coom on — give the young
swell a jolly good 'riding,' shouted his companions,
eager for a bit of sport that they were
only called upon to participate in as spectators,
and could share without any risk to their own
precious selves.

Cyril, I beseech you, stop,' whispered Violet,
bending down.

But Cyril's blood was up, and he took no
notice beyond saying,

I can't, dear ; I must give this brute a lesson.
Here, Pile, and some of you see Miss Vyvian to
the hotel, will you V And, without more ado,
Cyiil threw off his coat and hat, handing them
to a farmer, one of his own tenants, and, rolling
up his shirt-sleeves, stepped into where a ring
had been formed by the adherents of both

parties, amidst shouts of ' Hooray ! hooray ! a
fight — a fight ! Make a ring, boys !'

In the meantime, a passage had been made
for Violet, and once outside the throng, where
she met old Squire Bentley, she had at his
earnest request consented to drive home, after
exacting a promise that he would look after
Cyril.

Who'll back Big Tom again the cock sparrer V
shouted a wag in the crowd.

No one, however, seemed inclined to do this,
and in a few moments the antagonists were facing
each other in the rudely-formed ring. If size
and muscle were to tell, Cyril would, vulgarly
speaking, ' be knocked into a cocked hat in a
brace of shakes ;' his slight, spare, almost
effeminate-looking form contrasting strangely
with that of his opponent. It did not look a
fair match at first glance — Big Tom being some
four inches taller and some three stone heavier ;
but, though he was better 'topped,' his legs
looked wooden and knock-kneed, devoid of
spring and elasticity. Cyril, on the contrary,

though so slight, seemed all on wires, hard aud
springy from neck to ankle, and his clear complexion
showed he was in good condition. Any
judge of character inclined to back either man
would have noted the quiet way in which Cyril
took off his coat and waistcoat and knotted his
handkerchief round his waist ; while his face
wore an air of cool and quiet determination,
very different to the blustering way in which
Tom Sloucher prepared for the fray, with many
a coarse oath as to how he ' was going' to serve
the swell.'

After a little preliminary sparring, both men
get to work. Cyril keeps his opponent dancing
about the ring, drawing him on and feinting,
till at last he gets him a bit blown ; then, darting
in, he gives him a lightning-like right and
left full in the face that makes the Sloucher's
nose feel like red-hot iron, and the Sloucher's
eyes see stars, and is out of range in an instant.
Mad with rage, the big bully hits out wildly,
but quick as thought Cyril dodges to one side,
and, as he pauses and exposes himself, gives

him a blow that sends him staggering on to his
knees.

Thus ends the first round. The big rough
has not, however, learnt wisdom, and, in spite
of his backers' shouts to ' Tak time, nun,
tak time !' rushes after Cyril like a mad bull.
Once he manages to strike Yyvian fairly in the
face, and a large livid spot rises on his fair skin
where the full force of the blow has fallen.
Cyril, however, preserves his cool head and
temper, and still keeps dodging about.

He's funking — go in, Tom,' shout that
worthy's friends, and 'go in ' he does accordingly
; but this just suits Cyril, who administers
a couple of heavy body-blows, and then, as
the giant blunders past him, he gives him a
right-handed one delivered straight from the
shoulder with all his force, which catches Mr.
boucher behind the ear and makes him fall like
a log.

Dang it all, but that was a good yun,' shouts
one of the roughs, keen to recognise merit even
on the part of the swell.

He's killed,' yells another, as Tom Sloucher
lies prone and insensible.

Would any other of you like a turn ? If
not, take that great blackguard away and clear
the way,' says Cyril, with a quiet smile, though
he is shaking a little from excitement and his
exertions ; but the Rads have had enough, and
no other champion accepts the challenge, so,
getting the dazed Tom on his legs, they slink
off.

Hooray for the young squire !' shouts young-pile,
who has returned in time to see the finish ;
and forthwith, before he knows where he is,
Cyril is mounted on the shoulders of several
stout yeomen and borne off to the hotel, where
his and Violet's healths are drunk over andover
again — oftener, we are afraid, than is good
for some of their mutual admirers.

As he drove home, Cyril met his late opponent
looking decidedly the worse for the encounter.


The man stopped him, and, touching his cap,
said,

'Beg parting, squire, will yer shake 'ands
and forgive me V

As far as / am concerned willingly, Tom ;
but I won't shake hands with you till you
apologise to Miss Vyvian.'

« Dang it all, I'll do that at once ; but you
nun drive me there, squire; you've knocked
me about terrible, and I can hardly see to walk
straight.'

Jump up, then,' was the laconic reply ; and
in a short time the strange sight was witnessed
of Cyril and Tom Sloucher being ushered into
Violet's boudoir. The girl looked up in astonishment
as they entered.

Violet,' began Cyril, ' Tom wishes to apologise
to you for his behaviour to-day, and has
come to express his regret for doing what he
did.'

Yes, miss,' said the now thoroughly subdued-looking
rough, « I be main sorry for what I did
pertikler as I knows how kind yew wos to
my missus and children when I got lagged last
year ; but the fact be, miss, I got drinking wi' a

lot of my mates, and one on 'em says to me
says he, "Tom, do ye want to earn five
shilling' ?" " In comes I do," says I. " Well,"
says he, "' yew cum along wi' us. Mr. Bustle
the Radical agent, wants a few chaps to kick
up a row if the 'lection goes again 'is party, and
will pay us five bob each, so mind yew take the
must chance o' kicking' up a row." So that's how
'twas, you see, miss, and I 'opes, miss, as 'ow
you'll forgive me, and I'll promise not never to
'ave any more to do wi' them blackguards. The
young sqm're 'ere 'ave given me a proper good
'riding, and I deserved it, and don't bear no
malice.'

After having delivered himself of this longwinded
oration, the speaker stopped, looked
very sheepish, and twisted his cat-skin cap
round and round in his hands.

Certainly I will forgive you, Tom,' answered
Violet, smiling. ' Only keep out of bad company'
for the future, and, next time you want to
have a row, choose a man to have it with and
not a woman. Now go down to the servants'

hall and get yourself something to eat and
drink.'

And before you go, Tom, I'll keep my
promise and shake hands with yon said Cyril,
tendering his hand.

The rough was touched by this kindly treatment,
and the tears started to his eyes as he
wrung Cyril's hand, and said,

Dang it all, you Tories be the right sort,
anyhow ; and blame me, squire, if ever yew or
Miss Vyvian wants such poor 'help as I can give,
Tom Sloucher's your man ;' and with that he
shuffled out of the room, glad to escape from a
position that to him was decidedly awkward.

As the door closed behind him, Cyril and
Yiolet looked at each other and smiled, and the
girl, walking up to her cousin, drew his head
down, and kissing him softly on the forehead
where Tom Sloucher had left his mark, said,
simply,

Thank you, dear, for defending me as you
did— I shall never forget it — but all the same,
sir, it is very naughty of you to get into a street-row,

even for my sake, and you arc not to do it
again evei\ mind

The flush of pride that swept over Cyril's face,
and the way his eyes sparkled with pleasure at
this little spontaneous aet — the first time that
Violet had ever kissed him without being asked
showed how much he thought of it, and he felt
that he would willingly let Tom Sloucher pound
him into a jelly for a week, to gain another
such reward.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON: PRINTED BY Duncan .Macdonald, Blenheim House.

VOL. in.

M. F. H

BY

MAY CROMMELIN

AUTHOR OF 'QUEENIE,' 'BROWN EYES,' ETC.

AND

J. MORAY BROWN

AUTHOR OF ' Shinar SKETCHES,' ' POWDER, SPUR, AND SPEAR,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :
HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1889.

All rights reserved.

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAPTER

I. The Die is Cast

II. Storm-clouds .

III. Kate Plays her Trump Card

IV. Bv HIS OWN Hand
V. The MiGHxr Boar

VI. In the Jaws of Death

VII. Why DID HE DO IT? .

VIII. Kate's Repentance .

IX. A Message from the East

X. Lady Guisard tries what she

XI. Jack Redivivus

XII. The Last Run .

XI IL 'PoorRufus!' .

XIV. All's Well that Ends Well

an do

PAGE
















24-4

CHAPTER I.

THE DIE IS CAST.

As has been said, Mrs. O'Brien was not happy
at this time in her own mind. And, being unhappy,
she gi'ew careless about her health. She
would sit in her habit for hours after being
rain-soaked, and absolutely court draughts, as it
seemed, with a wayward pleasure in exposing
herself to illness and discomfort.

You have a horrid cough, dear ; I have
noticed it for the last three weeks. Do be more
careful,' Violet pleaded. But with inexplicable

TOL. III. B

perversity Kate could not be induced to take
common care of herself; she seemed to feel a
certain pride in the anxiety and sympathy
occasionally expressed by both Rufus and
Violet as days passed away and her cough became
apparently habitual.

As the spring advanced, Kate began to believe
herself doomed to early consumption ;
and, strange to say, an almost pleasurable self-pity
and melancholy stole over her at the
thought.

I cannot live long,' she told herself, sighing.
If onh^ this hateful engagement were broken
off first, 1 believe I could die happy ; for, it maybe
wicked of me — but I hate Cyril ! If Violet
does marry Jack Ramsay after my death, at
least I shall have ended my days here at Forde
happily.'

So thinking, gradually the idea grew and
grew to conviction in Kate's mind that it was
not only a kindness, but her solemn duty towards
Violet to interfere once more in the
latter's prospects of marriage. Whether she

really went the length of honestly wishing her
friend to marry Jack and be happy at last, she
herself hardly knew. At moments, fevered with
self-reproach, she did ; but always she thirsted
to see Cyril baulked of what she chose to
imagine his greed to share Violet's wealth.

I cadi do it ! And, if he pushes me to it, I
tcilll' she repeated, as she had once said to herself
when she first heard the ill-news. There was
an exultant sense of superior power in knowing
that a thunderbolt lay forged and ready
to her hand, hidden upstairs in a little secret
drawer. It was needed sooner than she
thought.

Violet had meanwhile taken a serious 
after that day of the election. Of
Course she had always been uneasily aware that
some day ' she must cease to put off Cyril so
repeatedly, and would be driven to name a
fixed time for her wedding. He was very good
and patient, and she was treating him rather
hardly, she knew. It could not go on in this
way for ever.

B 2

Margaret Beaumont said the same thing to
her.

Do you know that everybody is talking of
your adventure, and wondering if your cousin
is not to be rewarded in the approved fashion
of all knights who rescued distressed damsels.
Seriously, dear, are you never going to announce
your engagement?'

« All in good time. Why should I be driven
to it by these gossiping people who have
apparently nothing better to do than to discuss
my affairs?' cried Violet, restlessly. 'I leave
them alone : why must they meddle with me V

Because you must suffer the penalty of being
a greater person than most of them. You are
our Portia, with her sunny locks that— ^" hang
on her temples like a golden fleece." It is only
human nature that the neighbours should watch
all the Masons who come in quest of you.'

All, do you say? Why, Margaret, there
are few enough who can try the venture. You
speak of Portia. If you only knew how often I
have thought of her position, and likened my

own to it, where she says : " 0, me ! the word
choose.' I may neither choose whom I would
nor refuse whom I dislike ; so is the will of a
living daughter curbed by the will of a dead
father." '

It was the first time Margaret had ever heard
Violet speak "smith real bitterness of Mr. Vy van's
strange will. The girl had been very fond of
the whimsical and obstinate, but warm-hearted
old squire ; plainly it was only of late that his
last oddity of humour, as regarded his daughter,
had been felt so irksome by the latter. She
answered soothingly, the matter being hopeless
as to alteration,

Come, Violet, you have at least been able
to refuse whom you dislike. As to Cyril, I was
only going to tell you that some of the other girls
about here seem to think it hard that they cannot
guess whether he is off or on with you.
Several of them would set their caps at him, I
assure you, if they could be certain you would
leave them a fair field. Miss Quid, I hear, was
tremendously elated that Cyril rode home with

her one day last week after hunting, and she is
giving her friends to understand she could cut
you out if she tried.'

Really !' returned Violet, with a little contemptuous
laugh. But her cheek flushed sightly,
and wily Margaret saw that the well-tipped
shaft had done its intended work — the Miss
Quid thus nicknamed, because the daughter of
a rich London cigar-merchant, who had lately
bought a large place in the Marshwood Vale
district, being our young M.F.H.'s special
aversion. 'I am surprised that the tobacco
heiress should even deign to think of Cyril. I
hear she announced lately to Rufus that she
was so glad to have been " born at this sensible
time of day, when money can do anything, and
nobody cares taro straws about old family, or
any such old-fashioned nonsense." She always
stares me up and down at the meets, and is
almost rude, on the principle of not kowtowing
to me, though I am an M.F.H.'

You forget that Cyril is very nice-looking ;
and, " a man's a man," in these country parts

where there are so few marriageable partis,'
laughed Margaret. ' I daresay Miss Quid thinks
herself rich enough for any husband ; besides,
she may have a secret hankering for man-yiug
good family, whatever she may please to say.'

'Yes; on the principle that made the old
father indulge himself in a coat-of-arms and
family portraits, when he was made an alderman.
Did you hear what Kate O'Brien had the
coolness to say to the daughter last week?'
answered Violet, rather revelling in the recollection.
' I was forced to speak pretty sharply
to the young woman because she had nearly
ridden over one of the hounds, my favourite old
Lavender ; so she observed to Kate afterwards,
it was a pity that I disliked to see any girl
riding well to the front except myself. There
were several men near, some of them Miss Quid's
special admirers (at least she believes so), therefore
you can imagine with what satisfaction
Kate pointed out to her that even in the hunting-field
some people have to keep their proper
places, and that I was unfortunately obliged to

retain mine as Mistress. " Well," returned Miss
Quid, " all I can say is that my motto out hunting,
and everywhere else, is ' Go ahead !' and
my father always says it was his in life too."
You don't say so," exclaimed Kate, pretending
surprise. "Why, somebody told me, 1 am
nearly certain, that your father had chosen such
a delightful one when he first set up a carriage ;
Quid Tides,' is not that it ? I have such a
wretched memory, I have forgotten already
what it means, but something appropriate I
know to his being so justly proud of his success
in life as a self-made man. Perhaps some of
you can translate the Latin?" she went on,
turning sweetly to the men around. Rufus
says their faces where a splendid sight.'

It might have been in consequence of this
little conversation that, on the following day.
Miss Vyvian was noticed by all the Marshwood
Vale Hunt as riding with even more than her
usual pluck and fixed determination to be in the
very front of the van. It would be nonsense,
of course, to affirm that so brilliant a horsewoman

as Violet had often shown herself to be,
and one who was decidedly a leader and
favourite in the society of the county, could
possibly care in the least about the attempted
rivalry of the tobacco-merchant's daughter.
Yet, for some unknown cause, she felt on her
mettle. And, when the brown twilight fell and
the day was done, instead of jogging homeward
in the company of old Mr. Bentley, or
some of the Hunt magnates, Violet manoeuvred
for the first time in her life to get beside her
cousin, having noticed that Miss Quid was
eagerly trying to engage him in conversation.

A look from Violet, and Cyril turned to her in
an instant.

*Will you give a message for me to Tom,'
she said. ' And then I think we may as well be
going home together.'

Cyril was delighted. As a rule, Violet demurred
to riding back to Forde alone with him,
just because their secret was such a matter of
general curiosity.

By-and-by, as the neighbours dispersed by

twos and threes, and the clatter of hoofs died
away along different roads, the cousins found
themselves alone in a real south-country lane,
with high banks topped by bushes that almost
met overhead. The lane was so steep a descent
they had to go carefully ; so narrow they perforce
rode close to each other. Cyril put his
hand affectionately on his cousin's saddle, and
said, looking pleadingly in her face,

Dear Violet, I wish very much you would
promise me something. It makes me so unhappy
to see you ride as you did to-day. You
know how often you have put me off with a
laugh about this very thing— don't do so anymore.
Even old Mr. Bentley told me he had
spoken to you about it once before, and flattered
himself you were more careful for a few
days afterwards. If you were so good only to
please him, surely you might do as much and a
little more for my sake !'

What do you want me to promise T asked
Violet, with a slightly hard ring of voice, as her
face clouded. * You would not have me give

up hunting altogether; don't ask that, Cyril.
It is the chief amusement of my life and the one
thing 1 most care for. It does so take me out of
myself''

The longing to forget self is Avliat unhappy
people generally feel ;' and you, surely, have
almost all that heart can wish for. You used
not to be so utterly devoted to hunting, Violet.
But no' — and there were absolutely tears in
Cyril's eyes as he added, after a pause, ' don't
break your neck. That is all I ask of you.'

The tormenting spirit that sometimes causes
us to put those who love us to pain for the
pleasure of seeing them suffer for our sakes, and
thus prove their love, tempted Violet to answer,,
against her better nature,

Well, and if I did break my neck, Cyril ? —
it would only be a Avay of handing you over
the Forde estate, without myself as an encumbrance.'


She laughed lightly as she said so, but stopped
as Vyvian looked at her. He gave her a piteous
glance, like that of a devoted dog unjustly

punished. Then he said in a low voice, that
came plainly from his very heart,

You are far dearer to me than Forde manor
and all the estate. I should hate the place and
all belonging to it, were such a blow to fall
upon me. I believe I should go made

'No; not that,* said Violet, soothingly, a little
disturbed by a wild look in Cyril's light-blue
eyes, and the distraught, troubled expression
that passed over his face. ' You are a silly old
Cyril to take up what I say in such a serious
way. Come, now, we are at the foot of the hill ;
shall we trot ahead T

But, with her cousin's words, the conviction
had sunk deep into Violet's mind that Cyril
meant fully what he said. She believed he did
hove herself far above all that she possessed.
Her wealth gilded his prospects of future life
with the gleam of Eldorado ; but it was she, the
woman, who would make Eldorado into something
far holier and happier to him, into paradise.
He not only loved her, but had twined his
affection and thoughts so around her stronger

nature for support that with an inward sigh,
realising the situation, she told herself he might
indeed almost go mad were she to fail him now
in her promise of marriage.

Presently they were overtaken by one of the
whips, who brought a message from mr. O'Brien
that the latter and Kate were asked to dine at
the Blatherwicks, and they hoped Miss Vyvian
would excuse them. Mr. O'Brien's dog-cart was
to be sent with their evening clothes, and to
bring them back at night.

I shall send my brougham. As if Kate could
go driving about the country at night in a dogcart
with that terrible cough of hers,' observed
Violet a little indignantly. ' 1 wonder Rufus
could allow her to think of such a thug! She
will really go into a consumption unless he takes
better care.'

Do you suppose poor old Rufus would go if
he could help himself?' remarked Cyril, drily,
'There are two or three of the officers from
Shishborough staying with Billy Blatherwick ;
they form the attraction for Mrs. O'Brien, I

presume. Violet — if you flirt like that when
'we are married, how miserable I shall be !'

A little tightening came in the muscles round
Yiolet's heart, as the thought struck her, she
fervently hoped that the one man whom, even
after marriage, she might still be tempted to
care for more than her husband should never
then cross her path. But he was far away ;
years work such changes, too

It is not likely, dear,' she said, gently, and
felt a little penitent for even that momentary
thought. ' Try me, and trust me !'

Just then they passed the rusty gates leading
to the old manor-house ; grass was growing on
the drive ; two of the ancient elms forming an
avenue had been blown down lately, and still
lay uprooted. The grounds looked altogether
dismal, as a country place will when neglected,
especially in winter, and Cyril gave a little irrepressible
shudder.

Ugh ! I feel somehow at times as if I am
n earing my own grave, when I ride home in
the evening. Well, it may be so, who knows?

You would not allow me to have the roof
mended, Violet, and it will not hold up much
longer.'

Nonsense. You must content yourself with
the shelter of mine, 'some day," you know,'
returned Violet; then, with a certain pity stirring
her that she could not account for, she added,
obeying a sudden impulse, ' Come and dine
with me to-night. We shall only have each
other's society, but no matter.'

Only,' echoed Cyril, a gleam lighting up this
pale-blue eyes. ' That is my idea of the sum of
human happiness, to laye you to myself. Do
you so much mind haying only me to talk
to?'

By no means ; but we shall laye so much
of each others company by-and-by,' replied
Violet, in a cheerful, common-sense voice.

When is that time to begin, Violet V

But Cyril's question, though uttered dispassionately,
was not then answered ; for, with
a 1^ little laugh, Harlequin's mistress gave that
good animal a sign to get homewards, and

trotting away on the roadside turf she looked
back to call out,

Don't be late ! I hate cold cinders for dinner,
and you are never in time.'

Cyril, although of a dilatory nature, was over
at Forde Manor under an hour. What an
evening of bliss that was to him ! It was the
first and only one he had ever spent alone with
Violet ; and he blessed the O'Briens a hundred
times in his heart. After dinner and coffee they
strolled into the dimly-lit conservatory. Cyril,
as he enjoyed his cigarettes, revelled in the
tropical atmosphere, and grew dreamy and
romantic. Violet laughed at his lotus-eater's
fancies ; however lovely the green creepers and
passion-flowers drooping from overhead, and
the jungly suggestions of the big tree-ferns and
palms of her winter-garden, it was undeniably a
dripping and steaming spot.

'This is delicious,' murmured Cyril, as, sitting
on a seat beside Violet, he stole his arm round
her waist. ' I could wish to stay here for ever
with you ; to dream our lives away together in

just such a twilight, fragrant land as one can
imagine here around us. Tell me, dearest, can
you picture to yourself more perfect rapture
than such an existence ?'

'Yes, I can ! To be out in the green woods
on a fresh spring morning, or to have a gallop
on the downs with a brisk air blowing about
one, is far more wholesome to my mind,' replied
Violet, promptly. ' We will stay here all this
evening to please you, Cyril ; but to live so in
the future ! — 1 should feel as if shut up in a
room with a bronchitis-kettle always on the boil.'

Ah I that future together. Sometimes I feel
as if it would never come,' said her cousin, Ioav ;
and there was a touch of sudden pain in his voice
that startled the girl beside him as something
new.

'I thought — I hoped you had been happy
during our engagement,' she faltered, feeling
troubled, and trying to nerve herself to a decision
that she knew must come sooner or later.

Happy I you have made me so utterly happy
that 1 almost tremble at the thought of realise

III. C

Filing

still greater bliss ! At moments, lately, I have
even thought to myself that I must be fated to
an early death — don't be startled, dearest ! And
don't laugh at me for confessing my weakness.
Bnt does Fate long allow us poor mortals to be
so utterly glad to live ; so loth to leave you and
this life as 1 should be ? There ! I have troubled
you — your dear face looks quite sad.
Don't be sad, Violet, my best beloved. To me
it seems quite a beautiful idea, a sweet death to
pass from this earth in the very flush of the
greatest gladness it can give. Before the cup

of pleasure has been drained — before '

Before I grow gray, and you grow stout.
Before you find out that you are getting just a
little tired of me. 0, Cyril ! I should never
have thought it of you,' interrupted Violet, half-laughing,
half-crying ; for there was an intensity
of feeling underlying Cyril's words that gave hera
sense of uneasiness in spite of herself. He was
often sentimental, but his fancies did not take
this morbid turn. ' I declare it is enough to

make me resolve to be married at once, to disprove
such silly nonsense. And I will promise
to torment you from the beginning; just to
teach you that life can never be too utterly
blissful while there are such things as weekly
books, and big bills at Christmas, and servants'
Worries.'

At once ! Do you mean it — do you really mean
that?' and, murmuring expressions of endearment,
Cyril caught Violet's hand and gazed in
her face as if disbelieving his own senses at the
immediate prospect of such joy.

If a thing has to be done, I suppose one
may as well make up one's mind to do it,' said
Violet, giving a little laugh of nervousness.
But at once I — Well, you see, one wants the
wedding-dress to be properly fitted, and '

Don't put me off any more ; you have done
that so long, dear,' pleaded Cyiil. ' Only say
when — at last.'

We must have a pink wedding, I suppose ;
80 it should be at the end of the hunting



season,' said Violet, slowly. * Let me see— six
weeks.'

'No, no; a month hence,' cried Cyril, passionately,
and pressed her hand to his lips.

CHAPTER 11.

Storm-clouds.

Kate O'Brien was ill the next day, in spite of
returning home in the brougham. But then
she had insisted upon keeping both windows
down, and leaning forward in a thorough
draught, on a cold, rainy night ; so Rufus told
everyone, with real annoyance at her perversity.
He did not tell, however, what he had a faint
guess of in his vexation — that, feeling filled
with wrath at his wife's madness in accepting
such an invitation in her state of health — for to
hear her cough was torture to the good-hearted
fellow — and angered also at her rather pronounced
flirtation with some of the officers

from Slushborougli, besides feeling himself
tired after his day's hunting, and longing for
his easy-chair and a nap after dinner, Rufus had
indulged more freely than was altogether good
for him in his host's old madeira. It drowned
his annoyance, but Kate was disgusted with his
wine-laden breath, and declaring he was reeking
with tobacco she inhaled the bitter east wind,
leaning as far away from him as possible.

Next day Madam Wilful was astonished to
find the old family doctor of the neighbourhood
entering her room, with hardly a — 'By your
leave !' She tried anger, but her husband would
not stand any more trifling. So, seeing rebellion
was useless, Kate resigned herself; feeling that
after all it was perhaps time the doctor should
break the hopeless state of her illness to her
husband and friends. That good man certainly
looked serious, and gave her rather severe instructions
to be careful, With orders to keep her
room for a week. Kate meekly bowed her
beautiful head and felt convinced she was
doomed to near dissolution, coughing her heart

out the while. Once outside her door, however,
the wily Galen rubbed his hands.

Purely nervous ! quite a nervous cough, I
assure you,' "he said, smiling in the anxious faces
of the husband and hostess. ' Oar patient has
in fact a splendid constitution, and, if you can
simply make her take ordinary care of herself, is
likely to outlive us all. Only — don't tell her
so.'

For ten days, therefore, Kate was coaxed to
live an invalid's life, between her bed and the
boudoir sofa. Most mornings Rufus and Violet
had to pull regretfully long faces and leave her,
being obliged to go out hunting. Kate looked
a sort of eternal farewell at them out of her
glorious dark eyes; then, smiling a faint
martyr smile, strove to put up with Margaret
Beaumont's cheerful society, who had at once
taken the charge of the sick-room on her own
shoulders.

One fine morning, however, Kate resolved
to surprise them all by her reappearance in
daily life, though firmly believing herself really

in a critical state. It was a rather affecting
idea to her OAvn mind that, with a faint rally of
strength, she should struggle down among the
others who were well and enjoying themselves,
and she did feel strangely, remarkably strong.
An outburst of greeting hailed her.

Why, Kate — you are quite like yourself
again,' from Yiolet. ' As fit as a fiddle,' put in
Rufus. * Never looked better in all your life,*
said Cp'il, with more politeness but less warmth
in his voice than the others.

What are these? what are you all doing?'
asked Kate, supporting herself by the big hall-table,
and looking with a sudden chill fear in
her heart at a pile of half-opened boxes and
tissue-paper wrappings disclosed therein.

They are wedding-presents,' explained Yiolet,
with an apologetic feeling and a blush, she
hardly knew why. ' All yesterday and to-day
they have been pouring in. Look! here are
eight travelling-clocks already, and five aneroids
for Cyril, and enough blotting-books to stock
Girton, and '

Then the engagement is announced ; everyone
knows it in the country, apparently !' As
Kate pnt the question, demanding as it were
to know, she never heeded Violet, but looked
fall at CyriL

• Everyone V answered Vyvian steadily enon^i,
though feeling uncomfortable. ' We thought it
was time to let our friends share our happiness,
did not we, dear V turning with a rather nervous
though proud smile to YioleL * There never
was anything like the way her hand was nearly
shaken off at the meet — when was it? last
Thursday week — after they got wind of our
secret.'

'Let ^rrk — the very day 1 was

take:. :. / :'^'^. :,:r . Xj.re, slowly, with a curious
smile curving her Kps. ' Come ! some of you
might have told me the news, just to amuse me
when I was laid up. Why did not som, Rufns?'

Rufiis stroked his big moustache apart, and
was understood to observe he could not say.
Neither could he tell his wife that he was afraid
the news would be displeasing to her. He knew

too well that the marriage-peal rung at Forde
church would mean to her mind the knell of
her own ' good time.' Rufus was sincerely
fond of his wife, and he was to be pitied in his
perplexity.

'I've a confounded twinge in my foot,' he
groaned. ' I hope — I do hope it does not mean
gout. Kate, my poor girl, it will be hard if you
get well only to nm-se me, eh? You won't like
that I'

As it turned out, Kate did not like it. For
Rufus had prophesied too truly. A few days
later he was laid up with a most undeniable fit
of gout.

'It's deuced hard on her,' he kept repeating,
referring to his wife. ' Poor little woman !
she would have liked so much to go up to
toAvn and help in choosing the wedding finery.'
No one, however, seemed to share greatly in his
sympathy for Kate, under the hardship of thus
being called on to perform her wifely duty.
Rufus himself would have allowed her to go,
and have remained alone at Forde, with only

the servants to take care of him. But the doctor
and Violet so received this suggestion as
unheard of, assuming as a matter of course the
impossibility of Kate's even wishing to leave
him under the circumstances, that she felt perforce
obliged to stay and put as good a face on
the matter as possible. Perhaps there was
some ground for pitying her afterwards, for her
husband — feeling he had shown all self-denial in
offence to forego her services, but that as she
had stayed to nurse him he might as well reap
the advantages of them — proved as fractious
and fidgety as most of his sex in illness.

For about three weeks, therefore, Violet was
busied in town, between dressmakers, milliners,
and lawyers, chaperoned meanwhile by
Margaret Beaumont, who like all women revelled
in the excitements choosing a trousseau. Cyril
of course was also With them, staying at the
same hotel, and taking them to the theatre at
night. He had hurried up to London before
them, in order to hasten the lawyers' work of
drawing up the settlements, and wis in a

seventh heaven of feverish happiness and impatience.


A month had therefore elapsed since first the
long-expected news of Miss Vyvian's engagement
was made public : in another week, or
little more, the wedding was fixed to take place.
Five weeks ! it was rather a short time, insinuated
some of Violet's few detractors, among
them Miss Quid. But any little hints of,
Marry in haste,' and so forth, were soon silenced
in the universal paean of pleasure and congratulation
that went up from the voice of the whole
country round.

Firstly, Violet was a county favourite;
secondly, she had absolutely accomplished that
rare feat of pleasing almost everybody by her
marriage. Old men praised her good sense in
not making any silly love-match, and in keeping
the property together and being obedient to
her dead father's will. Matrons were secretly
delighted that Lord Guisard was still to be had.
He was a rich matrimonial prize, while Cyril
had always been only an ineligible. Hearts

are caught so often ia the rebound from the dead
wall of a denial. So everyone might now set
their caps afresh, trusting that in his chagi'inLord
Goosie might hasten to many the * first best '
of their daughters who now should please his
colourless aristocratic eyes. Hitherto, alas ! his
heart had no more felt love's pricks than would
a well stuffed pin-cushion. As to the young-men
and maidens, they all discussed or envied
Cyril's good luck ; and, though some of the
latter foolish virgins privately agreed there was
not much romance or excitement about this
engagement, of which everybody reminded
everybody else that they had always prophesied
it would come to pass, still ' it was quite the
proper thing.' And a pink wedding, the wedding
of their own pretty and uncommon kind
of M.F.H., was quite a delightful idea — just
the right event with which to wind up the
hunting-season.

Several of the Marsh wood Vale Hunt took a
malicious pleasure in condoling with Guisard,.
or in asking what he thought of the news ; if

they met him at dinner-parties, or when dispensing
justice from the magisterial bench. On
these occasions his lordship looked a little pale
and decidedly sullen, but invariably made the
same answer, drawling out,

Aw, as to Vyvian — not surprised. Poor
chap, there was nothing for him but the workhouse
or the union ; naturally he preferred the
latter.'

Never thought Goosie had it in him to be so
sharp,' said one.

But,' remarked another, ' don't you hear
how he says it, like repeating his lesson ; his
mother has primed him. She doesn't want him
to look more foolish than nature meant him to
be.'

But they were wrong, for all that. Mrs.
O'Brien could have told them who made the
rejected suitor a handsome present of his words,
at the quiet corner of a covert the first day she
was out for an hour or two in the pony-carriage
after her illness. She dared not be the one to
hint openly that Cyril was fortune-seeking, but

she had taught herself to behove it, and laughed
bitterly in her sleeve as Guisard persistently
repeated his parrot-reply. Rufus was very
wrathful when old Squire Bentley, who came
to visit him during the gout period, related
what Goosie was saying.

'Please the pigs, I'll teach him manners, the
little croidP he exclaimed, referring to the
smallest specimen of a porcine litter which is
often a pigmy amongst its brethren. ' I'd have
him to know that a gentleman of good old
family is none the worse for being poor ; and
Vy van's great grandfather was keeping his own
hounds when my Lord Guisard's was blacking
boots at an inn, as all the world knows. And
by the soles of those same, if he hadn't put a
better polish on the uppers than his great grandson
does on his behaviour, it's kicked out he'd
have been. No matter I let the fool say Avhat
he likes . . . (Confound this foot of mine I) . . .
Hooroo ! I'll be well anyhow for Violet's wedding,
and throw an old shoe after her for good
luck !'

Throw your hrorjue, Rufus ! you could not
do better,' came in quick rejoinder from Madam
Kate in the background, with a scornful curl of
her lip. And while O'Brien burst into a great
laugh of appreciation — the sally, however, having
been first made by the wittiest of living, old Irish
priests, and his own friend — Squire Bentley
thought slowly to himself he should not care fora
wife whose mellifluous words had such a subacid
flavour as he fancied he detected in Kate's
accents.

If any of Kate O'Brien's friends could have
seen at this time into her heart, they would have
been surprised at the sea of bitterness tossing
and seething therein. At times she told herself
that if hell, as says Marlowe's Faust, has no
limits nor set place, ' for where we are is hell,'
and Mephistopheles, answering the query why
he is not therein, replies,

Why, this is hell, nor am I out of it !'

then she, too, had begun to taste its punishment
in a measure. She believed herself remorseful :

the very pain of miiid she was suffering seemed
expiatory, for Kate's idea of Hades Alas purgatorial.
x\nd yet she could hardly endure
the thought of Cyril — he whom she had spurned,
whose passion she had amused herself by arousing,
playing with, rejecting — that he should now
be the one to dispossess her from the dear
delights of Forde. It was like a worm turning
at last ; a weak, despised victim gaining the
victory ; and she longed to crush him, to set
her heel on his neck. How dared he, after
having gladly kissed the very ground under her
feet, now pretend to love another girl under her
own eyes ! Her vanity made Kate utterly disbelieve
in Cyril's present attachment being
genuine ; her quick insight, where not blinded
by self-conceit, made her perceive that Violet's
affections were not deeply stirred, though honest
liking, the sense of duty, and tender pity,
were all engaged on behalf of Vyvian.

A very nice mixture, but the brew isn't love,'
thought Kate, darkly ; her own definition of
love was passion, which might, or more likely

VOL. iir. D

might not, be lasting. ' She is taking the moon
because she can't get the sun ! I declare, I will
give her a chance. Come what may, she ought
not to chain herself into such dull connubial
slavery. Anything would be better for her; and
for us /'

No one knew the strain Kate put upon herself
those dreary da^^s to wait upon Rufus hand
and foot, and not betray the impatience that
consumed her. She chafed like one in prison,
who knows the file and saw to work deliverance
are close at hand, but cannot yet be
used.

When Violet left for London she had spoken
of returning in a week ; then came a letter explaining
delays, A fortnight passed, and the
little party still lingered in town, evidently enjoying
themselves too much to have time to
describe their doings — except by writing, ' they
had no time to write,' but that they must stay onto
see Sarah Bernhardt and hear the newest
singer and sign stupid papers. Then Kate grew '
wild!

A dozen times she bcgau a letter, that if ever
finished would have been addressed to Cyril
Vy\'ian, Esquire; a dozen times she tore up,
then carefully burnt the fragments.

No use writing — he is so weak. I must see
him I' she always repeated between her teeth.
'He cannot help coming soon, if even he is
purposely avoiding me. 1 must lure him to an
interview ; not frighten him ofi".'

She was right enough that Vy van was, if not
frightened, yet distinctly uncomfortable at the
idea of being thrown alone in her company.
He had an impression Kate might be — well,
disagreeable in her references to bygones, so he
had not only avoided her all the winter but
especially of late, and urged Violet to remain in
town as long as possible. Margaret Beaumont
backed him up in this without his knowing why.
She understood his sense of discomfort and restraint
when with his lady-love, if Kate O'Brien
turned her scornful gaze upon him. In London
Cyril might look aa foolishly blissful as hc^

d2

pleased ; might rapturously assure Violet a
dozen times a day, no man was ever more happy
than himself, yet be safe from a quiet word or
two, and covert smiles that though unmarked by
Violet, who was often sunk in gentle abstraction,
yet rankled afterwards in Cyril's mind like so
many gibes and sneers.

Violet was very quiet indeed those weeks ;
she seemed lost in a dream. Often she asked
herself, was this really she Avhose white satin
gown was being pinned on and snipped out
round the neck by the dressmaker ; really the-living,
waking Violet Vyvian she had so long*
known — and Who was now going to be married I
She could not realise it.

Once only she roused, on hearing Margaret
say, in a cheerful voice,

I am writing to Jack, dear, to tell him all
about it beforehand ; the pink wedding, laAvn-
meet, and all. Have you anything to say to
him V

A knife seemed to go into poor Violet's heart.

Had she anything to say V Yes, truly ; but
what never must be said. What would she not
have given to speak to Jack Ramsay just once,
soul to soul ; to tell him she had been honest towards
him, to ask — had he been so by her, as
his letter had brought her lately to believe, in
spite of everything. That said, all righted
between them, they must have parted again, but
surely far more happily ! How often the same
thing happens in life, and how terribly hard it is
to bear. We would give half the best remaining
years of our lives to free ourselves in the
eyes of the world, or of our superiors, maybe,
from unjust blame, or the stigma of dishonour ;
ay, and even more, just to clear up to one we lovesome
misunderstanding that has darkened two
lives and may go down to the grave unexplained.
And most likely those words never will bespoken
on earth. Honour, or circumstances,
forbids it. Violet roused herself now, therefore,
and sent some vague praise of Harlequin, unable
to bethink herself of anything better.

Just then Cyril entered, looking slightly
flustered.

Isn't it hard '! he complained. ' I am
afraid 1 must go home on Friday, dear, as
everything seems at a standstill for want of
my instructions ; and there is so little time
before the wedding. But you can't get away, I
fear, until Saturday'

No,' said Violet, with cheerful carelessness.
Unless you like me to run the risk of a wrinkle
somewhere in my wedding-gown ; for it has to
be tried on for the last time. I'll come, however,
if you really wish it. But it is only the
separation of one day.'

No — no. I would not be so selfish,' answered
Cyril hesitatingly, half ashamed of feeling so infatuated
that he was loth to relinquish her society
for even twenty-four hours. ' What can I do
for you down there % Shall I go over on
Saturday morning to Forde Manor and see the
stables and kennels are all right V

Pray do ; and please see poor Rufus too, he
must be so dull, though he can just hobble

downstairs on two sticks,' said Violet, ever
thoughtful of those sick or sorry. ' I am writing
to Kate, so shall I say he may expect
your

CHAPTER III.

KATE PLAYS HER TRUMP CARD.

But it was not Rufus O'Brien who awaited
Cyril's visit on that Saturday morning.

Mrs. O'Brien herself stood, expectant, in the
morning-room at Forde Manor, Hastening with
eager ears for his footfall, her face pale with
a resolute, strange light in her eyes.

My chance has come at last !' she thought,
triumphantly, yet feeling so nervous, so impatient
that she could not sit down, but moved
restlessly about the room. She had taken all
precautions against the coming interview being
interrupted ; her husband was safe in his own
study puzzling over accounts she had begged him

to look at, and the servants were busy. Cyril
always came in this way from the terrace by the
glass door, without troubling* to ring. Two
blinds were drawn down, so that he could not
see her from outside, as she lay in wait. But
what if he should not come at all ! . . .

A step on the gravel outside. A rush of chill,
spring, east wind as the glass door is opened, and
Cyril Vyvian walks in with the brisk, bright air
that shows small men of his height and sandy-haired,
fair-complexioned appearance at their
best.

The light died in his eyes, however, as he saw
Kate ; a change passed over his face ; and he
came forward slowly, framing some cold words of
greeting. He met with a still more icy reception.
Kate stood near the middle of the room,
drawn up to her full, queenly height, watching
him approach. She appeared not to notice the
hand Cyril was about to offer her, so his dropped
again.

I came to see your husband this morning,
Mrs. O'Brien,' said Vyvian, breaking first an

ominous silence, and bracing himself to endure
what appeared likely to be an unpleasant meeting.
Kate laughed harshly.

I quite understand that. You did not expect
to see me alone . . . most likely did not
wish it. And yet, if you can go back a year or
little more in your memory, you felt rather
differently . . . my name was Kate, then, on
your lips— that, or something still dearer.'

What is the use of going back to those days
now?'

Cyril looked her straight in the face, though
troubled in his heart to know what was his
opponent's intent.

You did not really care for me. Thank God,
I have long ceased to care for you ! It is best
so for both of us. And I am going to be
man-hed next week.'

Don't be too sure of that, Cyril Vyvian.'

A few moments of silence followed, during
which the two gazed at each other. Kate looked
unflinching, full of pitiless, stern purpose;
Cyril had turned pale at the suggestion, not

knowing what was coming, but fearful of the-worst.


What do you mean?' he said, hoarsely.
Violet is truth and goodness itself. She has
promised to be my wife ; we have been engaged
for months. And you would not . . . you could
not interfere between us oioiv.'

I could ! I would ! Better late than never. I
have never said a word yet against your engagement,
because it seemed to me so utterly
unlikely to become really a marriage. It was
so prolonged, so needlessly secret that a hundred
other causes might have intervened to
break it ois ; and I believed, I hoped, something
would, and that I might not have to be the one
to do so. That is the reason of my long silence.
Besides, anyone can see plainly Violet does not
really love you ! not with the best love a woman
gives a man when she longs to be his, to be
with him always. Ask yourself if she does . . .'

Violet does not reals love me I' repeated
Cyril, vaguely, almost feebly, his face flushing.
The accusation would not have stump; him so to

the quick if in his heart he had not often feared
it might be true. 'How can you say so V Then
suddenly flashing out : ' What do you want ?
What do you mean ? Why do you wish to ruin
my happiness ? It is not as if you had ever loved
me, that you should hate me now.'

Why does not matter,' retorted Kate O'Brien,
with a scornful smile. 'Believe if you like that
I love you myself to distraction, or simply that I
may not care to turn out of my comfortable
quarters here, in order to see you installed as
lord and master.' v

Upon my soul, I believe you are speaking
the truth in your last words. Wicked selfishness,
greed, those are your objects. Well, do
your utmost. I know Violet better than you do,
and nothing you can say would ever make her
throw me over. Why should she V

Do you know her so well,' returned his tormentor,
slowly. ' What do you think she will
think of you, if she reads a certain letter of
yours I have carefully kept ? Do you know that
she threw over another man, whom she loved

with her whole heart, because she believed him
dishonourable ; and, if so, how much more

you '

I know she loved another man first. Respect
her secrets, at least . . . Don't torture me I
But that letter ! surely you could not have kept

strand

dim, haunting, but horrible recollections
came back to Cyril of words that should never
have been said or written, better had it been
indeed if they never had been thought.

I have kept it— safely ! What will Violet
think, I ask you again, when she reads it ? She
has engaged herself to you out of kind sisterly
regard ; and from pity of your poverty ; and because,
being so hampered in choice, she believes
you honest, honourable, and upright. What will
she feel when she learns that you tried to the
uttermost to induce me to leave my husband —
he, simple-minded man, being your best friend !
and this under your cousin's very roof!
you knowing all the while that Violet would
have been outraged and shocked at such treachery

on your part had I consented to listen to
your prayers ? ! Violet is good and virtuous,
but her very virtue makes a girl often pitiless.
If she really loves with her whole heart, she may
forgive a great injury, no doubt ; but when her
calm attachment is merely based on mistaken
belief in a man's uprightness, and loyalty to his
friends, and excellent principles which make
him worthy of her innocence and utter trust in
him — how then, Mr. Vyvian V

'Woman! — Fiend !' burst out the wretched
man. 'You could not do this thing — you dare
not show her that letter. You tempted me on ;
you led me to the very brink, though you recoiled
from the last leap, perhaps because I was
too poor. Would you publish your own
shame V

I mean to stop short at nothing. I will prevent
this marriage — for Violet's own sake, if you
like. You are not worthy of her,' uttered Kate,
with panting breast and eyes that shot forth
lightnings.

Cyril stopped short. With a groan he understood

the situation by a final sudden insight :
that he was dealing with a passionate, reckless,
and utterly selfish woman who, to gratify her
covetousness and perhaps hurt vanity at his
defection, would imperil lier own reputation
for the satisfaction of ruining his happiness,
would little heed howshe wounded herself if only
she could kill her enemy. The drops stood on
his face, which was very pale. He changed his
tone now, and appealed in his misery, weakly,
imploringly to her softer feelings, her compassion.


In vain I Kate hardened her heart all the
more, and scoffed at his pitiful lover's complaints.
In very truth she believed that Cyril's
affection was as much for Violet's fortune as her
person.

That is something to grieve at losing, I own,'
she remarked, in bitter jest. ' You see, on that
point we fully agree — we both feel the same.
One or other of us must lose the game, and it is
worth playing for Don't think me unfeeling
; it must be agonising, I admit, to see

your pleasant prospects of an easy life so
utterly dashed. But you are a man! go out
into the world and make yourself another
fortune. I am only a woman, and can't work,
worse luck.'

Another fortune !' echoed Cyril, her taints
like so many poisoned arrows that all stuck in
his flesh. ' I tell you, I love Violet. Do you
think nothing of that?'

Well ! — not much,' jeered Kate slowly. ^ You
loved me to frenzy, you know, not so very long
ago. Do you love her better now V

Yes ! a hundred thousand times, yes,' shouted
Cyril, goaded to madness by his enemy's
sneering disbelief in his honesty of purpose.
*I should think it is a better love. What I
felt then is not to be named in the same breath
with what I feel now. Cannot you understand
the immense difference? My God ! she is like a
saint to me ; she would be my better self, while
you — you '

You have said enough,'^ Kate interrupted,
almost choking.

It was too much, indeed. Cyril bad been
hard upon her ; she felt harder towards him,
grimly determined that nothing should induce
her to relent. Cyiil saw his mistake, and
with sinking heart tried to retrieve his false
step ; but it was too late.

Then there is no hope for me ? Nothing
will induce you to change your mind?' said
Vyvian at last, wearily. His sensitive nature
was so keenly alive to the pain and disgust of
having pleaded long and vainly that it revolted
now. Whatever happened, he would not stoop to
entreat Kate any more,

Nothing !* returned Kate, briefly and emphatically.


And what do you want me to do then V
asked Cyril, still speaking like a man in a dream.

Write a letter to break off your marriage
with Violet ; and go off at once — go to-night — to
Paris, or anywhere. You once left the country
as suddenly on my account. You can do so on
hers, now, that is all.*

VOL. III. E

And if I refuse to do this V

Then I shall show that letter to-night to
Violet. What is the use of going over old
ground in this way? Come, Cyril Vyvian— I
give you until this evening to make up your
mind. There is no time to lose in preparing
to go away to-night, you know.'

« Yes — in preparing to go away to-night,' repeated
Cyril mechanically, in a dull voice.

And you will send me a message ? You will
let me know what you have decided to do V

I will let you know.'

Vyvian took up his hat, stumbled slightly,
caught at a table to support himself, and waited
so a few seconds ; then moved slowly out by
the glass door.

'How quietly he takes it,' thought Mrs.
O'Brien, watching ; her own hot anger and the
passionate revenge to which she had lashed herself
beginning to subside.

As Cyril left the great house, he felt as if he
should faint. By instinct, rather than conscious

volition, he chose the least frequented h^nne-
ward Avay through the Avoids, to hide the
agony he was suffering from the curious eyes of
any passing fellow-creatures. Then the cold
air somewhat revived him ; presently the action
of Walking numbed his pain of mind. As he
l(H:)ked dully ahead, the trees on either side,
the half-cleared copses piled here and therewith
faggots, seemed to pass by him as in a
dream.

IsHfe itself a dream ; — and pain a dream V he
fcnmd himself thinking in a stupid Avay. He
did not feel like a waking, living man as he
went home, hopeless, joyless ; rather he seemed
a shadow moving through a world grown strange
and cold.

Not two hours ago he had set out on his
morning walk with elastic step and a buoyant
heart, the fresh breeze deepening the ruddy hue
in his face. Now, as pale, dispirited, and wearies
he entered his old rusty gates and
looked up the wind-blown avenue, where the
ancient elms were decaying to their fall, and

E 2

U6HAH1

i'HWER^>T.«.UiNO.

the Manor-house came in view, looking still
more decayed, and, in spite of buttresses, slowly
singing by degrees back to that mother earth
which had so long osborne it, a shudder ran
through poor "Vyvian.

He remembered his words to Violet at this
very spot : ' I feel as if nearing my own grave.'
What if they should come true ?

Cyril went indoors on reaching the house, and
locked himself into his study, a long dark room
on the ground-floor, with a low ceiling crossed
by black rafters. By-and-by his old housekeeper
came with heavy steps and knocked at
the door, asking would he have any luncheon.

She went away quite satisfied, when Cyril
thanked her in muffled tones through the door
aud said he wanted nothing. Mr. Yyvian often
took no midday meal, she knew.

Could she have looked in, however, she would
have seen her master seated with his head supported
on his hands, trying to think . to
think. Only a few hours' respite granted in
which to face this awful blighting that had overcast

with the swiftness and blackness of a
thunder-storm the siinn}^ sky of his prospects,
so lately almost too dazzling with the glorious
light of happiness.

There was no escape !

Either he must shatter with his own hand, atone
blow, all the hopes of happiness he had so
exultingly built up ; himself refuse the cup of
human bliss that was so near his lips. Or, if
not !

Oh, he could not do it ! He could not bring
himself to write with his own hand to Violet,
saying that it was impossible for him to marry
her. He to insult her thus ! . . . and without
any possible excuse to allege . . . not a word
that his sick mind could devise to soften the
great shock to her maidenly pride, she his star
in life, his best beloved ; and he who was her
loyal slave, only too glad, too thankful for a
little of the kindness that fell from her dear
hands, for some of the love that filled her warm
and gi-gracious heart.

Should he dare Kate O'Brien to do her worst ;

throw himself on Violet's mercy, and brave it
out? But— that letter !

With a groan Cil Vyvian knew in his heart
Kate had spoken the truth. Violet would never
forgive the revelation of his attempted treachery;
never, never, at least, would she so far
forgive as to marry him. If he had not
been Rufus O'Brien's familiar fiend, if he had
not plotted under Violet's own roof, ^vith her
innocent eyes resting upon him, ignorant of the
evil in his heart, full of trustfulness then, as
now, of her cousin Cyril — her only living near
relation, her almost brother as she used playfully
to call him 1

Only now did the baseness of it all seem to
become clear to the man who was so changed
from the days of his mad passion, with its
attendant perfidy, its deceits and disguises, the
whole dishonourable conduct at remembrance
of which his soul now sickened.

Truly his sin had found him out.

Rising, Vyvian moved restlessly up and down
the room ; he tried to think, but his brain was

overwhelmed by an awful weight of mind pleasing
upon it, like a sentence of doom. And
slowly the hands of the old clock on the mantelpiece
moved round, marking the flight of hours,
and the afternoon sun emerged from the grey
clouds that had hidden it all day and dropped
westward, behind the great pine-trees, on the
la^vuj in a bar of orange glow.

At times a thought came he was no worse, after
all, than other men ; how many had done what
he had only sought to do and now so keenly repented.
Why should they flourish like green
bay-trees, and his punishment be so terrible?
Again came higher, homer whisperings. Why
not bear his cross, take his sentence bravely, asa
man should ? But then the scandal of his
dight . . . the thought of wandering far from
home like a vagrant, for he could not return to
the neighbourhood of Forde and give no reason
for his shameful treatment of his cousin. Worse
still than the public gossip and exile, he shuddered
at thought of his past conduct in the eyes
of her who should have been his wife. He

coTilcl not bear it . . . anything rather than to
have her know, to sink in her esteem.

The sun fell lower behind the pine-trees.

The old housekeeper knocked again at the
door. She had some tea ready and hot cake.

Master Cyril, you would be the better of justa
cup ; it is all laid in the drawing-room. Please
take it, sir, you had no lunch.'

Presently,' answered her master's voice
from within, sounding very quiet.

Could she have looked in, the good woman
would have seen Vyvian, haggard and pale,
standing by the table looking at an object
that he had taken out of a drawer twice, and
once put back. It tempted him so sorely ; his
fingers moved to close lingeringly upon it . . .
peace, rest . . ! Violet would be driving homeward
at this very minute ; he breathed a prayer
that every blessing in life might light upon
her dear head.

The sun sank out of sight. There was a noise
in the study that faintly reached the ears of the
old couple of servants, man and wife, who were

sitting cosily at their evening tea near the
kitchen fire.

What was that V said the housekeeper, Hastening
a moment.

Rats, most Hkely. How many of them there
be in this okl house, to be sure,' returned her
husband, who was the gardener.

And both went on placidly enjoying their
meal.

CHAPTER IV.

BY HIS OWN HAND.

Well ! here I am,' cried Violet, entering the
Forde hall with a sweet glow on her cheeks and
divesting herself of her fnr wraps as she cheerfully
announced that obvious fact of her return
home, which so many people uselessly do on similar
occasions. ' Kate ! what a colour you have ;
I never saw you looking better. Rufus, if you
have not missed me since I have been away, I
will never forgive you. But where is Cyril?'

The girl's eyes gave a glance round the comfortable
big hall to its further shadowy recesses
as she spoke ; then she gave a little, half-surprised
laugh.

Not here I and he wired early this moriiiug
he would meet me at the station. This is wonderful
! At least, he is quite sure to come for
dinner ; that is a certainty.'

In her heart, Mrs. O'Brien thought triumphantly
it was not such a certainty, after all. She
was secretly elated, but disposed to be very
tender and affectionate towards Violet this
evening, to console the girl beforehand for the
shock and annoyance that she must soon experience.
So when Violet, nestling presently into
the softest depths of a great sofa near the fire,
feeling as if anew all the luxury and comfort of
her beautiful old home, exclaimed,

It is really delightful to go to London for
the pleasure of saying good-bye to hotel life at
the end of it. To see one's own old family
Gainsborough hanging up around one here,
without having to stand and stare in a gallery till
one gets a crick in one's neck, and to have one's
own good servants again. There is no place
like home, after all.'

Quite true. There are few places like dear

old Forde,' said Kate, in her rich deep voice ; then
she rested her hand lovingly on her friend's arm
in an unwonted caress, and added very earnestly,
I trust, dear Violet, you may enjoy it more and
more many years. It is not only a great pleasure
to be rich, it is a power for good. I believe
it is the duty of everyone for that reason to acquire
as much money as they honestly can.'

Miss Vyvian did not make a direct answer.
She wondered, with a laugh in her heart, how
long Kate's preaching mood would last ; and
thought it irresistibly comic. With light-hearted
eagerness she began describing all their late
doings in London, her trousseau, the theatres
and sights they had seen. Kate entered with
zest into the latter accounts.

'Nevermind about the clothes,' she said, contemptuously.
* In six or eight months they will
all seem old-fashioned or frightful to your new
ideas. But when you've been to a first-class opera,
or had a good day at Sundown, and so forth,
those are pleasures that last for life so long as
you remember them.'

This again surprised Violet, to whom her new
gowns were a particularly interesting detail of
her wedding, although in general she was by no
means absorbed in dress. Kate, on the contrary,
loved the fashions.

Dinner-time arrived ; but not Cyril.

What can be keeping him V exclaimed Violet,
rather annoyed. Could ho be careless — Cyril —
of her return? — neglect her? It was extraordinary,
but she did not like to show that she
felt hurt.

0, he is all right !' said Kate, carelessly. * He
came over this morning to see the kennels and
stables, I believe ; then he just looked in and
asked for Rufus, but when he heard you were at
accounts, my good old man, he went away and
would not disturb you.'

Faith, he did well,' said Rufus. ' If I'd once
risen from those sums, madam, you'd have found
it difficult to coax me to them again. I'll tell
you what it is, Violet, I'll bring in my saddle
and put it on my chair another black day of
arithmetic. It woidd come easier to tackle the

figures, I feel certain, if I could fancy myself
across a good horse all the time, no matter if the
country was stiffish

IMr. Vy van is always late, dear ; and meantime
we are all as hungry as hawks. Will you
wait for him T suggested Kate, deferentially.

No ; Ave need not wait for him,' decided
Violet. But when they were half-way through
the dinner, and that still the fourth seat was
empty, she — well, almost felt a little cross with
Cyril.

The old Manor was at such a short distance
from Forde, after all ; he might have sent a
message over.

Rufus was just enjoying with gusto an especially
savoury entree, when Violet's old butler,
looking particularly solemn, even pale, respectfully
murmured that some one wished to see him
at once on urgent business.

At once ! Does he know I'm at dinner '?
AVho is the fellow ? — what does he want V

'I cannot exactly say, sir; but if you will
only see him — he says it is an important message.

1 believe— if you will excuse me, Mr. O'Brien,
that you had letter see him, please,' stammered
the butler, in a whisper.

What is the matter ? Has anything gone
wrong V asked Violet, sharply, noticing her old
servant's unusual manner.

I cannot say, bliss Vyvian. A man wishes
to see Mr. O'Brien on important business, I
believe.' And the butler, stiffening his stout
person to normal pomposity with efFoii:, followed
Rufus outside, who had regretfully laid down
his knife and fork — but then started up as if his
hmg limbs were pulled by wires, thinking to
himself:

Rabies in the kennels, as sure as a gun.'

In a few minutes — they seemed very long ones
to Violet, who was unaccountably uneasy with
a presentiment of trouble gro^\^ng ever stronger
on her ; and to Kate also, though the latter was
inclined to feel triumphant yet nervous — Rufus
returned. He looked strange ; so very grave, so
slow in his step. As by magic, the footmen all
disappeared from the room in the twinkling of

an eye, beckoned out by the butler. Violet
noticed this at once.

There is some bad news, Rufus,' she said,
trying to steady her nerves. ' Tell it to me at
once — say it out, please.'

There is, dear. Cyril has been — not well all

day, they are afraid. He ' Poor Rufus

fairly stuck fast ; something rose up in his
throat he had to gulp hard at before his voice
Avould come.

He is very ill. Tell me the worst— I must
go to him at once ;' and Violet rose up pale but
self-possessed.

Rufus put out his arm, as if, barring her
passage, instinctively.

« Not yet, Violet ; don't hurry, my dear girl.
It's worse, worse — and yet, maybe, better in
God's infinite mercy, who knows? — than you
think. Lord help me ! how can I tell her V

'Be is dead, Rufus,' said Violet, low and
solemnly.

She knew it even before the honest fellow,
with a nod of acquiescence, covered his face

with his hand and leant against the mantelpiece.


Neither of them noticed that Kate's face had
grown of a still more deadly paleness than even
Violet's, while her eyes were distended with
horror ; and that, standing in the background
with both hands pressed on her breast, she Alas
struggling hard to control herself.

How was it — so — awfully sudden ; was it —
heart V came from Violet's diy lips, with a stony
calm.

No. It was an accident — at least, it must
have been. He was handling a revolver, cleaning
it, maybe.'

A scream sounded in the room, but it did not
come from Violet. Both the others started and
looked round at Kate, whose face was ghastly ;
her bosom was heaving with such a terrible agitation
they could see it rise and fall, as if, but
for choking, fresh screams must have followed.

'Hush — hush !' exclaimed Rufus, with a warning
authority in his voice, for he feared she was
going into hysterics.

VOL. III. F

Give her water,' Violet uttered at the same
moment.

She it was who pushed her friend into a
chair and held a glass to her lips. Though
deadly white herself, and feeling her knees
trembling and her strength almost failing her, yet
the poor girl succeeded in keeping outwardly
calm. Then after soothing Kate's first outburst
by a few words, still more by her example (for
the latter remembered wildly that she was on the
verge of self-betrayal) Violet turned to Rufus,
and entreated, low and hurriedly,

Order the brougham round, please ; tell them
to be quick. I must go and see — him . . .
You need not come, if you think that Kate — Is
she well enough to be left V

Is it riot go over with you ? My poor Violet,
my dear, brave girl, are we unfeeling brutes not
to stand by you in such an hour ? Of course
we'll go !' returned Rufus, with solemn indignation
and a world of pity in his blue eyes, laying
a heavy friendly hand on Violet's shoulder and
so escorting her to the door.

His heart was fairly melting Avitli sorrow and
sympathy ; he did not know rightly how to show
this feeling. When Kate looked at him in dumb
beseeching he hardly noticed her expression, but
told her peremptorily, though kindly, she must
pull herself together and be ready to accompany
Violet.

You should see and help her if you can.
What is this to us, after all — but it's nearly everything
in life to her.'

AVhat a terrible though short drive that was ?

Violet shuddered as the carriage-lamps flashed
on the rusty gates that led to the old manor
avenue. She, too, remembered Cyril's prophecy.
Alas, alas ! how sad to think of the young, strong
life that had so lately been the master-spirit
within the mouldering walls of this old house,
lout that was now quenched like a lamp blown
suddenly out.

Violet felt stunned. Intense pity for him
overpowered her ; poor, poor Cyril, who was so
intensely happy in his engagement, in his blissful
marriage future, as he had told lur so few

p2

days ago. She could not think of her own loss
yet ; or, if she did, it was only to ask herself, in
heavy sadness,

How soon shall 1 be taken too, I wonder V

Death seemed so strange, such an awful,
sudden mystery. It was to her as if they had
all been sitting in a happy circle in the same
room they were all their lives accustomed to inhabit,
when an unseen shape came and beckoned
Cyril out of their midst, and, without a word
of farewell, he had gone out and closed the
door — and that was all. Till they who stayed
behind were also called in solemn turn, they
would never see him again. And it had happened
so short a time ago !

Where is he at this instant, I wonder?' she
thought to herself, looking out at a star shining
softly afar in the night-sky.

They led her quietly in, with cautious footfall
and hushed, awed voices (as if he who lay within
could hear), to the death-chamber.

Cyril's body was still left in the study, but it
had been lifted, and laid upon a well-worn, leather-covered

sofa, from which a litter of [magazines
and newspapers were first hastily cleared away.
Ho wore his ordinary shooting-suit, as if just
come in from a walk. Isis face, but for its
pallor, might have seemed sleeping, its expression
was so calm, almost smiling. Only, on looking
closer, a small bluish hole was visible close
to the right temple.

Violet had gone straight forward, and stood
looking down at the prostrate dead body of her
promised husband. She did not know what was
going on behind her ; she saw nothing, heard
nothing. But Kate O'Brien, after crossing the
threshold of the house with faltering step, had
stopped at the study-door and leant feebly
against the wall for support, seeing a glimpse of
the recumbent figure in yonder, with a handkerchief
spread over its features, which the old
housekeeper gently removed as Violet approached.


I can't go in. I can't— Rufus,' she gasped,
with failing breath. * I could not bear to see
his face

I won't force yoii : but for pity's sake be
brave, Kate, and think of being a friend and
support now to poor Violet, and not of your own
fright, l^she can bear to go in there, surely you
might,' whispered back Rufus, pained and
ashamed that his wife should so fail in what he
thought her plain duty. There was only one
light in the dark hall, and it happened to shine
upon his face, which though unbeautiful in itself
seemed to Kate like that of an accusing angel,
it was so sternly earnest, while his blue eyes
shone with a solemn pity. She dared not risk
falling in lier husband's]esteem ; under his glance
she must go forward.

One look at poor Cyril Vyvian's face, and a
few seconds later Kate without more ado sank
fainting where she stood. But, fortunately
Rufus was standing beside her, and saw her
figure sway. He was just in time to catch her
before she fell, and made two or three silent
strides with his burden to the hall outside.

Violet became dimly aware, despite the
deadening oppression of her thoughts, and the

weakness, almost paralysed state of her senses
from the recent shock, that something disturbing
was passing in the twilight group behind
her at the door. A smothered exclamation of
pity, a sob or two from the old servants jarred
upon her. She did not know aught else had
happened.

Leave me alone a few minutes, please,* she
said, hardly turning her head, and standing
there ' like a statue,' as they said afterwards.
So they left her alone, with poor Cyril Vyvian's
dead body.

Violet bent and solemnly kissed his forehead,
the cold touch of which brought a sudden gush
of tears to her eyes that strangely relieved her.
Then she sank on her knees by the dead man's
side and sought comfort in prayer.

As the girl knelt there, a strange rush of
thoughts swept through her mind. Oh ! if only she
could have loved poor Cyril better whilst he was
still alive ! She almost blamed herself, as if somehow
the fault had lain with her. True, he said
to her he had been utterly happy, had seemed

transported to a seventh heaven of bliss, indeed.
And yet Violet had a curious feeling as if
he had been cheated of the full, brimming
measure of love that it is in the power of most
Avoient to bestow on the one human being
dearest to them ; that she had not been able to
bring — to him. Yet she had honestly tried her
best. By degrees consolation stole into her
mind ; her grief and pity for Cyril, that were
wild at first (grief that his young life should be
so early cut off and baulked of its promised
earthly happiness, which overpowered her own
sense of loss), gradually became subdued.

She rose calmed, presently, though with
a widowed feeling that the man who had truly
loved her — the only one who seemed destined
by fate a partner for life — was taken away ; and
that henceforth she would be lonely indeed.

Violet's eyes wandered round the study next,
with reverence but an intensified keenness to
notice its smallest details. A wish had risen in
her mind to picture the scene of but three short
hours ago, when Cyril must have been standing

there looking round ou just the same objects —
full of life and vigorous health.

Suddenly her glance, straying to the writing-table
in the bay-window ending the study, fell
upon a letter that seemed begun and left unfinished
in an open blotting-book. A pen still
lay beside it, but the blotting-case itself had
been evidently pushed hastily away.

Impelled by a sudden wish to know what this
letter might be, which was among poor Cyril's
last occupations, and that no one but herself had
noticed, Violet gently took it up. Then she
started, and a violent tremor ran through her
frame.

The letter was dated that very afternoon, and
bore these words :

Dearest Violet,

Forgive me if you can '

There the writer's effort had plainly broken
down.

A horrible conviction stole into Violet's mind.
Lie moved slowly back, and gazed with ineffable

sorrow and pity at the dead, still face on the
sofa.

0, Cyril, Cyril ! why did you do it V she whispered
aloud, as if those lips might yet unclose
and tell their secret. But there was no voice,
nor any that answered.

CHAPTER V.

THE MIGHTY BOAR.

Ix the meantime, Jack Ramsay, who had now
been some time in India, had thrown himself con
amove into the wild sports of* the East. He had
of course joined the local pig-sticking club, and
had got together a good stud of hunters —
Arabs and Waters, off whose backs he had
already gained many a first spear.

At times, however, he constantly found his
thoughts straying back to the ' girl he had left
behind him,' and he thought bitterly of what
might have been I Then again his mind
reverted to the memory of his dear dead mother,
and how ,^lu' would wish him to bear the trouble

laid upon him — to be brave and chivalrous even
in thought, towards the woman who had done
him, as he fancied, this grievous wrong — and
above all, to trust.

Ramsay was what so few calling themselves
Christians really are. He was conscious
(as who among us is not !) that he had
numerous faults and failings, nay, even sins,
and these he did his best to subdue and overcome
; but his faith was simple and childlike,
and he trusted implicitly in the all-knowing
goodness and mercy of Him who guides our
destinies, trying to the utmost of his weak
human power to follow the example of the
great Founder of our religion, and forgive even
as he would be forgiven ; and who shall say that
with all his faults Jack Ramsay was not in truth
nearer the type of a true Christian gentleman,
than the man who is ever introducing religion;
and God's name, into every phase and occurrence
of daily life, and who is yet probably at
heart a mere hypocritical sinner like the Pharisee
of old ?

Jack proved as popular among his brother-officers
in India as he had been at home, and all
he came in contact with at the station of Shinar
vowed he was the best fellow out. He
entered with zest into all the amusements of the
station. Were theatricals to be got up, Jack
was besought to take the leading part. It was
the same at polo, racquets, gymkhana sports,
pig-sticking, &c., to all of which his cheery presence
and proficiency seemed to impart new life ;
and what perhaps made him more a favourite
than anything else was his entire absence of
jealousy, and his ever willingness to allow a
younger and less experienced man than himself
to reap, in the shape of trophies, those rewards of
success so dear to the sportsman's heart.

The periodical letters he had received from
Margaret Beaumont had contained no inkling
of Violet's engagement to Cyril ; and those rare
ones he also got from old Squire Bentley were
principally devoted to an account of the wonderful
sport the "Marshwood Vale Hounds had been
enjoying, "sith just an incidental allusion now

and then to Violet's performances on Harlequin.
He bad, therefore, to be content with such scant
scraps of news of the being he still loved best
on earth as these letters contained, and to
cherish the hope that some day, perhaps, the
cloud might lift, and the happiness that he
longed for might be granted him. He was, alas !
destined soon to be roughly awakened from
these dreams.

There waste be a ten days' pig-sticking meet,
to which some members of a crack Hunt in the
next Presidency had been invited, and the
Shikarabad Hunt men looked to Ramsay to uphold
the honour of their side. It was a glorious
morning in December, that pleasantness month
of the year in the burning plains of the sunny
land of Ind. Under a tope, or grove, of giant
mango-trees might be seen quite a little
village of tents grouped round a larger one,
which formed the mess-tent and from the
pole of which fluttered a little white pennon
bearing the device worked in red of a boar's

head with crossed spears, the badge of the
Shikarabad Hunt club. The grove on one
side was bounded by a large tank, with a flight
of massive masonry steps leading down to its
margin, a remnant of some of the great irrigation
works made by the Mahometan conquerors of
the land in the seventeenth century; whilst
beyond lay a range of rocky hills bathed in the
purple shadow of distance.

Numerous horses were picketed about ; some
undergoing a thorough dressing over by their
attendant sykes, or grooms, whilst their noses
were deeply embedded in their grain-bags.
Here and there, sportsmen might be seen strolling
about, cheroot or pipe in mouth, feeling a
doubtful foreleg, or else perhaps administering a
sharp reproof to some careless groom. At the
back of the mess-tent a thin curl of blue smoke
arose, denoting that breakfast was in course of
preparation.

Presently a horseman cantered up, and, as he
threw himself from his smoking hack, was greeted
with a volley of welcome.

Hooray ! here he is at last

'Why, Ramsay, 1 thought you were never
going to turn up.'

Now, old chap, we'll have breakfast ; here,
khansama, hazard lao ; (butler, bring breakfasts)'


I'm very sorry to have kept you fellows
waiting,' returned Jack, for it was our hero,
but I couldn't help it. Just as I was starting, I
got a most urgent note from old Colonel Currie's
wife, begging and imploring me to come over
and see her about her little dear Fido. Of course
1 had to go, only to find she had been stuffing the
little cur, who was simply suffering from overfeeding
; so I took him back and told my dog-boy
to give him nothing to eat, and to run him round
the compound for four hours a day ! However,
now I'm here, let's have something to eat, for
I'm as hungry as a hunter, and so thirsty that
I could drink a bucket dry.'

Breakfast being discussed, beaters all counted
and presented with check tickets, our sportsmen
mounted, and accompanied by their second

horses, and sykes carrying spare spears, a start
was made for the first covert to be beaten.
This consisted of a stretch of runmah grass,
clothing both sides of a wide ravine, along the
bottom of which densely growing sin dee bushes
(a species of prickly palm) afforded a pleasant
retreat for the porcine tribe. At certain pointsmen
with little red flags were posted in trees,
and it was their duty to signal with these the
direction the hog broke. The party numbered
some dozen sportsmen, most of them bent on
riding, and contesting for the honour of ' first
spear.'

Soon the beat began with a most infernal
din — tomtoms, horns, rattles, and all manner
of native music, added to the shouts from some
two-score dusky throats, combined to make such
a pandemonium of noise that a sounder of hog
soon broke, and, being allowed plenty of lav,
the word was then given by the captain of the
Hunt to ' Ride !'

Away our sportsmen all thundered in hot pursuit,
each group of three or four selecting a rid cable
VOL. III. G

boar. Two or three were soon accounted for ;
Ramsay getting one first spear and one of the
visitors the other. Another small covert was then
beaten blank, and then came the piece-nonresistance
of the day : a dense baubnl thorn covert
-with a thick undergrowth of grass, which was
known to hold a heavy boar.

On their way to beat this, Ramsay saw a
young subaltern named Douglas, belonging to
an infantry regiment quartered at Shikarabad —
a keen sportsman, but, alas I like many another
subaltern, suffering from impecuniosity, and
therefore only able to afford one horse — walking
along disconsolately, leading his animal which
was decidedly lame.

Hullo a ! Douglas, what is the matter V said he
pleasantly.

Oh ! just my infernal luck !' was the reply.
I thought I'd be very sharp and get a spear
all to myself, so followed what I took to be a
good boar, then just as I was going to spear
found it was a sow ; but I was going too fast to

pull up, and old Solomon blundered into a
beastly grass-covered nullah with me, and I am
afraid he's no more good this trip. It's a confounded
nuisance ! I did hope to score a spear
against those Bombay swells and have a shy at
this okl dant-Avallah* you are going to l^eat for ;
lout I suppose I'll have to do "patience on a
monument," or rather up in a tree, Awhile you
fellows are having all the fun ;' and the poor
boy's face fell ruefully.

'No need of you doing that,' returned Jack,
I'll lend you a horse ; you shall ride my nag,
old Twilight, and if you don't get the spear off
hun you deserve to be shot,' he added,
laughing.

Xo, no, my dear fellow, I wouldn't for the
world. I know you've been keeping him fortin's
run ; and, besides, I'd be sure to make a
mess of it and lose the spear.'

Nonsense ; you do as I tell you, or else 1*11
never speak to you again.'

'Tusker.'

G 2

A little more pressing on Jack's part, and
young Douglas was mounted on Twilight, a
high-caste, grey Arab, and veteran hog-hunter,
Whilst his own lame horse was sent back to
camp.

It is no slight exercise of self-denial to mount
a friend on your best horse at any time, but
given the probability of a really good run —
with the prospect of a fight at the end of it —
the sacrifice becomes far greater, and involves
a certain amount of self-abnegation that even
the most generous of sportsmen could hardly
be blamed for declining.

Ramsay, however, Alas one of those happy
natures ever ready to do another a good turn
without counting the cost. He knew young-douglas
was 'as keen as mustard,' and pitied the
lad for the disappointment he was suffering;
and so, out of pure kindliness of heart, put himself
entirely on one side — though he had been
expressly keeping Twilight for this very run —
and contented himself with riding another of
his stud, a slower and inferior animal.

At the first shout of the beaters the ' dante
' in question, a whacking boar, broke,
and, after a preliminary look round to see that
the coast was clear, set off at a leisurely trot.
The hunters were concealed behind a clump of
trees, seeing but unseen by the boar ; and each
one of the party, among whom were many
veteran hog-hunters, could almost hear their
hearts beat as they viewed his gigantic proportions
and noted the gleam of his large, white
rushes.

There he goes !' whispered young Douglas,
involuntarily tightening his rein, and settling
himself in his saddle, preparatory to a start — a
proceeding which made Twilight reach at his
bridle and paw the ground impatiently.

Steady, lad, steady !' replied Jack, with a
quiet smile, ' we must let him get well away
first, and then it will be your own fault if you
don't get the spear.'

At last the boar was fairly off, and the word
*Ride I' was lowl^^ spoken by thu captain of the
hunt. At the mandate the Avhole party dallied

out from behind, their place of concealment, and
burst like a ton-went over the plain at the very
top of their speed.

The boar seemed now alive to a sense of his
danger, and laid himself out to gain the shelter
of a thick belt of jungle some two miles distant.
Away the party scoured ; the hard-baked earth
ringing with the strokes of their horses' hoofs,
and the dust rising in clouds behind them.
Two of the visitors were leading, then came
Jack with Douglas, whose somewhat unpractised
hands were fretting the old horse Twilight,
for he was boring and shaking his head
in his impatience to go to the front. A nullah
or dry water-course, with rotten banks and a
bottom of sheet rock, now confronted them. In
and out went the boar, closely followed by the
three leading sportsmen.

Twilight could stand the restraint no longer,
and, seizing the bit between his teeth, went at
the yawning chasm forty miles an hour, cleared
it With a mighty bound, and was off again in
his stride in a moment, whereby he gained

considerably on the other competitors in the
race.

On they sped for another mile ; but, as the
leading man was preparing to close, the boar
pinked sharply to the right and was away at a
tangent in an instant. Twilight, who was now
lying second, was up to this game, and turned
almost as quickly as the boar, thus giving
young Douglas the lead. Only the four were
now really in it, or had a chance of the
spear — Douglas, Ramsay, and two of the
visitors.

As they traversed a terribly rough piece of
stony ground, covered with cracks, holes, and
stubs, the race became keenly exciting. Spurs
were clashing as each man leant forward with
spear extended, trying to get every ounce out
of the game horse he bestrode. Now one, now
another gained a temporary advantage, as their
horses strained every nerve and muscle in the
race, and were almost reeling from the exertion.
A few hundred yards, and the issue lay plainly
between young Douglas and one of the visitors.

Half-mad with excitement, not two spears
from the boar — who was beginning to
show signs of exhaustion, as he champed his
tusks, from which the foam-flakes were flying,
and looked back viciously with his little brown
eyes — young Douglas gave Twilight two sharp
digs with his spurs, which the old horse answered
gamely, though with a groan. Another
stride and the spear was almost Avon when, with
a surly *woof, woof!' the boar charged swiftly
round. Douglas had only time to put down his
spear, and the next moment he was sent flying
over Twilight's head as the horse turned a complete
somersault, and then lay motionless. It
was the gallant boar's last effort, however, and
the spear had sped true, for, after staggering
on some fifty yards, he rolled over and died
with a surly grunt of defiance ; in fact, only as
an Indian boar — that pluckiest of all beasts of
the chase — can die. Young Douglas Alas on his
feet in an instant ; and, as he saw the boar roll
over, uttered a loud and triumphant 'whoop
!'

Come, old man, get up,' he said, turning to
Twilight, Who did not move, however. Just
then Jack pulled up.

What's the matter, Douglas ; not hurt, I hope,'
he said ; ' I must congratulate you on getting
the spear.'

No, I'm all right, thanks, old man, but I fancy-twilight
is pumped ; he won't get up.'

Jack was off his horse in a moment ; then
one glance was sufficient.

He'll never get up any more, Douglas. Look
there ;' and he pointed to a long gash behind
the girths, from which the unfortunate horse's
vitals were protruding.

The boar had not died unavenged ; for, as he
passed beneath the horse, he had given him
that ghastly wound with a lightning-like stroke
of his ivory-white rushes. Besides this, poor
Twilight had broken his neck in the fall, and
had been put out of his misery in a moment ;
but it was a moment of triumph — a glorious
death, in the hour of victory. As Jack gazed
at his dead horse, where it lay with glazed eyes

and stiffening limbs, be could not help a tear
stealing down bis cheek at the loss of bis good
steed, one be bad got to love and value much,
as what sportsman does not that truest friend —
a good horse.

Poor young Douglas, when be realized
the true state of affairs, and that, owing to
Jack's Fondness and generosity, be bad lost
bis best horse, sat down and fairly cried like
a child.

Ob ! you can never forgive me, Ramsay ! —
wb-a-at an — an infernal f-f-ool I was to ride bim
so bard,' be sobbed.

In a moment Jack's own trouble vanished
before another's sorrow, as, laying his band
gently on the lad's shoulder, be said, kindly,

Never mind, Douglas, it can't be helped —
you were in no way to blame. I'm only glad
to think you were not hurt, and that you have
upheld the honour of the Hunt. Besides,' he
added, ' I couldn't have wished for a more honourable
death for the dear old horse.'

Oh I I would give all I possess had this not
happened ; I cant keep those rushes, Ramsay, I
can't, indeed, they would always remind me
of this wretched day and what a cursed fool I
am,' faltered the poor boy.

Well, wo won't talk about that now ; let us
get back to camp,' returned Jack, leading the
way.

He was in no mood for moralizing or indulging
in vain regrets which could do no good, and
would only deepen the youngster's misery.

A couple of hours later the whole party, augmented
by the presence of a subaltern in Jack's
battery named Byng, were assembled at dinner
round the mess-table. The events of the day
were of course the engrossing topics of conversation,
and naturally turned on the big boar and
the death of poor Twilight. Jack came in for
much commiseration; but, knowing what a sore
subject it must prove for young Douglas, he
turned the conversation.

I vender what sport fellows arc having at

home,' he remarked. ' I hear scent has been
wonderfully good.'

Yes,' replied Byng, ' I believe it has been a
wonderful season ; and by-the-by, Jack, that
reminds me, weren't you hunting down with
the Marshwood Vale Hounds last year?'

Yes, — why V was the reply.

Then I suppose you knew the sporting young
woman who is their M.F.H. V

Of course I did ;' and Jack felt the hot blood
surging to his temples at the very thought of
Violet.

Well, then perhaps it will interest you to know
she is going to be married. I heard so from my
sister who lives down in those parts, and, womanlike,
she thinks all such gossip supremely
interesting.'

Going to be married ! Jack could hardly believe
his senses. The shock almost made him
reel. Then a flood of bitterness rushed over
him, and he smiled grimly as he queried, with
an air of apparent unconcern that he was far
from feeling.

Really ; and who is the lucky man V
A cousin of hers, I believe ; but I can't
remember his name. Stuck up for her at a row
during the election, or something of that sort,
and so won the young lady's heart, and, what's
more to the purpose, her hand, for I believe she
is a deuce of an heiress.'

These last words were as gall and wormwood
to Jack, but he was too much a man of the
world to betray his feelings; and, merely remarking
that he was very tired, left the party,
who had now adjourned to the cheerful proximity
of a roaring camp-fire outside, and sought
the privacy of his own tent. His emotions were
conflicting. This day he had had two hard
and bitter strokes: the loss of, first, the woman
he loved best, and the death of his horse
a tried and trusty comrade. Few, except those
whose lot it has been to endure bitter disappointment,
can realize what he felt ; and is it to
be wondered at that during the long hours of
night, though he wrestled hard with his feelings,
he could not avoid experiencing a certain sense

of deep bitterness and disappointment, and
being shaken in his belief of women? Daylight,
however, found him calmer ; he saw it
was useless to repine, and resolved to face his
trouble in a manly way. But he had no heart
left for the sport that a few hours previously had
possessed such attractions for him, and, to the
surprise of everyone at breakfast, expressed his
intention of returning to cantonments. Arrived
there, he found a long letter from Margaret
Beaumont, giving him full details of Violet's
engagement to Cyril, and concluding in these
terms :

1 will not conceal from you, dear Jack, that
at one time I had hoped things might have
turned out very differently; and that though
Violet might have been lost to us here as mistress
of Forde Manor, yet that she and another
person, who is like herself very dear to me,
would have been happy together. But what
is, I believe, must be ultimately for the best.

Certainly she has a heavy stewardship here, in
the management of her estate, and the care of
the many dependent upon her, who would
sorely miss one so kind and considerate. Cyril
Vyvian is at all events kindly and pleasant,
and this marriage was her dead father's wish ;
so with all ray heart I trust it will turn out
well. You yourself, my dear boy, if even you
should feel some disappointment at this news,
will, I am sure, put your own feelings on one
side, and congratulate both Violet and Cyril on
their engagement.'

To this letter Ramsay replied in suitable terms ;
for, fond though he was of Mrs. Beaumont, he
was far too reserved by nature to indicate, even
to her, all he felt. Whilst Violet was yet unmarried,
he had still thought there was some
chance for him, and he had lived in hopes that
one day, perhaps, an opportunity of asking her
for an explanation might have been afforded
him ; but now — ah ! that chance could never

come, and every feeling of honour and chivalry
must henceforth seal his lips. Still with God's
help he would try to bear up, though all that
made life worth living for seemed now
gone.

1 promised to be her friend,' he told himself,
and, by Jove ! hard though it is, I will endeavour
to prove myself such in the truest sense, and she
shall never guess what anguish this news has
cost me.'

And so he wrote her a few lines of congratulation,
sending her at the same time, as a
wedding-present, handsomely mounted in gold,
the rushes of the big boar that had caused
poor Twilight's death, and concluded by
saying,

I send you a pair of exceptionally fine boar's
rushes. I trust they will possess some value in
your eyes, as they cost me the life of the best
horse I ever owned, bar dear old Harlequin. I
offer them to you, because I prize them highly,
and I trust, therefore, that for that reason they

may prove the most acceptable gift I can lay at
yom feet. Will you, in the future, let me be
what you once promised I should, and allow me
not only to sign myself but always to remain
Your true and devoted friend,

Jack Ramsay.*

A'OL. Il H

CHAPTER VI.

IN THE JAWS OF DEATH.

It required no small effort ou Ramsay's part to
write to Violet Vy van in the terms he did. His
first impulse was to pour out the whole bitterness
of spirit that he felt in a torrent of reproach
; but better, kindlier, and more manly
thoughts prevailed. He told himself that he had
played his game fairly and lost, and so must
grin and bear it. What was the use of repining
for what now could never be his ? No, every
dictate of true, honourable, and chivalrous feeling
pointed out the right course for him to pursue,
and he determined henceforth to follow it and be
loyal not only to the woman he had loved with all

the strength his heart was capable of, but to the
man who had supplanted him in her affections.
It must not be conjectured that Jack arrived at
this decision easily or without many a bitter
struggle against his inward man ; for who
among us that gains the mastery over self has
not to fight hard for it ? He felt, however, that
cantonment life was now distasteful to him,
and that he must get away — seek fresh fields and
pastures new — and in some form of keen excitement
strive to forget the past. He thought
over many plans, but all were rejected except
two. He was undecided where he should
spend the two months' leave he had obtained.
Should he go to the far away, and but little
known regions of Tibet, and there, in that land
of lonely barren mountains and desolation, seek
relief in pursuing the yak, or wild ox, and ths
oves ammon ^ or should he devote it to the
pursuit of tigers, bison, and other dangerous
game in the more adjacent jungles of the Central
Provinces ?

He was sitting one day in his bungalow

h2

ruminating as to which route he should follow,
when young Douglas came in.

Ah ! Douglas, how are you ? glad to see
you ! Why, we haven't met for an age !' he
exclaimed, rising and greeting the young fellow
cordially.

No,' was the reply, ' to tell the truth, Ramsay,
I've been ashamed to come and see you since —
since — ^ and Douglas hesitated, and looked at
where a water-colour sketch of Twilight hung
on the wall.

0, bosh ! don't talk Hke that,' returned
Jack, divining his thoughts, ' that is all over,
and mind, if you and I are to be friends, I won't
have any more of your apologies about an accident
that you couldn't help. Come, light your
pipe ! Sit down — have a chat, and assist me to
solve a difficult problem.'

That is just what I came to ask you to help
me with,' smiled Douglas. ' The fact of the
matter is, I'm dying to have a shot at a tiger. I
can't join any of the parties going out this hot
weather : first, because they wouldn't take such

an inexperienced duffer as myself, and secondly,
because I can't afford the expense ; but I've
got my leave, and I mean to rough it, and try to
bag a tiger by myself. I thought you might
perhaps be able to give me a hint where to
go. I do want a tiger-skin of my own shooting
awfully.'

And why are you so keen about a tiger-skin,
may I ask V queried Jack, laughing, noticing the
way the lad blushed when he concluded his
sentence.

Well, Ramsay,' hesitated Douglas, * it is no
good beating about the bush, so I may as well
tell you. I'm awfully spoony on a girl at home
such a jolly girl, the dearest little thing in the
world — such lovely hair and eyes and such a
ripping '

Come, come, I can't stand the full description
of your lady-love's charms,' laughed Jack ;
then he added more seriously, and with just a
tinge of bitterness in his tone, ' So you've got
hit 'twixt wind and Vater, my lad. Don't be an
ass; few women are worth risking your life fori

as you certainly would if you tried conclusions
with a tiger single-handed ; but still I think I
can help you.'

'Oil don't see any great risk in it,' argued
the youngster. ' I've heard all you have to dois
to sit up in a tree and pot the tiger as he
comes along.'

And suppose you wound him, as ten to one
you only would, what would your sagacity do
then ? for, remember, you could not leave the
wounded brute behind you to play the mischief
all round.'

This contingency had certainly not crossed
the young man's mind, for his face fell as he
replied, slowly,

Well — I hardly know, but I suppose I should
have to take my chance and follow him up.'

Yes,' returned Jack, ' that you certainly
would have to do ; and therefore I say that tiger-shooting
alone, and on foot, is hardly worth the
risk that it entails ; but I quite appreciate your
feelings, Douglas, and will do my best to assist

you to obtain the skin for your ladye-faiv, if you
will adopt my proposal, and not let any silly
feelings of pride debar you from doing so. Now
I am not a Swaggering idiot, but I know I ama
little more blessed with this world's goods
than you are, and consequently can aftbrd what
you can't ; so listen to me. When you came iu,
I was just meditating a hot-weather trip myself,
and intended asking you and Byng to join me.
I know a good line of country, and have heard
of a first-rate shinar who was out there two
years ago with a friend of mine. Now, if you
like to come, you need only pay what you can
afford towards the expenses, and I'll stand the
rest for the pleasure of your company. Come,
say, is it a bargain T

This proposal fairly staggered young Douglas,
and he hardly knew what to say. He was
keenly anxious to go, yet did not like to avail
himself of Ramsay's generosity, and therefore
began to frame excuses.

A little argument on Jack's part, however.

prevailed at last, and it was eventually settled
that he was to join Ramsay and Byng in the
proposed trip. So the young fellow went
away jubilant, more convinced than ever that
Jack Ramsay was ' the best fellow under the
sun.'

The next few weeks were spent in a state of
feverish excitement, making preparations. Stores
had to be laid in, cartridges loaded, pack-bullocks
and drivers engaged, tents overhauled,
and all the hundred-anemone necessary arrangements
made for a two months' residence in the
heart of the jungles where they would be far
from all civilization. All this took time, and
gave them more work than anyone not acquainted
with all the preparations for a successful
and comfortable trip of this kind can
imagine.

At last the long-looked-for day arrived, and
early one morning the three sportsmen mounted
their hacks, and cantered out of cantonments
on their way to their first camp, some forty miles
distant. Having horses posted half-way, they

Tbe '^z

Slimy : :
masavr

help his thoughts straying far away to merry
England, and picturing to himself how the selfsame
moon Avould be shedding its beams among
the glades and oak woods of Forde Manor.

What an ass I am !' he mentally ejaculated.
Why, it's broad daylight there now.'

The occasional neigh of a horse, the subdued
conversation of the servants, as they huddled
round the camp-fire, smoking the everlasting
hubble-bubble, and the snores of his companions
soon recalled him to a sense of his whereabouts,
and with a sigh he turned over and endeavoured
to sleep. This, however, was long in coming,
and Ramsay felt a strange presentiment of evil,
which required much strength of mind to overcome.


Some three weeks had passed, and the party-had
enjoyed a fair amount of sport, having
during that time bagged some five tigers, two
bears, a panther, besides a few bison and deer of
different kinds.

Young Douglas, however, had not yet had

his wish gratified of shooting a tiger, or participating
in a really good * scuffle,' as he termed
it, vrith. the monarch of the jungle, all the tigers
bagged having fallen easy victims to Ramsay
and Byng, and showing no fight.

At last the camp Alas pitched at a village
called Dolara, noted as the habit of the man-eating
tiger before alluded to. The * khubl^er '
anent this feline scourge was highly satisfactory
(from the sportsmen's point of view), as locating
the animal, for he was said to have killed a
wood-cutter some five miles from their camp
only a few days previously, and Hyderr Khan
reported having tracked him in the sandy bed
of an adjacent river.

Well,' said young Douglas, ' I hope we are
in for a good thing at last, and that this brute-will
show fight if we turn him up.'

Yes,' returned Byng, * so far I must confess
our sport has been mild as to quality, though, as-far
as quantity goes, we cannot complain.'

Don't you fellows be too anxious for ai

•" scuffle," ' observed Jack, quietly ; ' remember,
we are all of us comparative novices at this sort
of work, and haven't yet faced an angry and
savage tiger. It is not all child's play, and it
would be no joke if one of us got mauled.
Somehow, I fancy this brute will leave his
mark on some of us, before we have done with
him;

Come ! don't croak, Jack laughed Byng,
'^ we are all pals, and mean to stick to each other,
:and it will be a deuced clever tiger who will
make his charge good against our six barrels.'

Well, I only hope so,' replied Jack, « and may
we be all sound in skin and limb this time tomorrow
night.'

The next morning the camp presented a busy
and animated scene. Beaters kept arriving
from all parts, willing to lend their humble aid
to the sahibs who were to rid them of the feline
pest whose body had been nourished by their
friends and relations. Hyderr Khan was bustling
about giving emphatic instructions to
several of the most intelligent villagers, some of

whom wore to be placed as * stops,' whilst
others were to be posted in trees as ' look-out '
men. Byng was superintending the distribution
of check tickets, whilst Douglas and Ramsay
were finishing the careful loading of cartridges.
Each felt the responsibility of the task before
them, and deemed it necessary to take every
precaution to ensure success. At last all arrangements
were completed, and the party set
out.

A walk of some two miles brought them
to the ground it was intended to beat, which
was the dry bed of a river thickly overgrown
with a dense thicket of jow, or scrub cypress,
and long grass. Here and there great boulders
of smooth rock cropped up in masses, forming a
cool and tempting retreat to a repose-loving
tiger. At a certain spot, the river, reduced by
the hot weather, narrowed considerably and
flowed through a channel only a few yards
wide. Near this the remains of a half-eaten
bullock were discovered, and, as the cover soon
ended, it was conjectured the tiger was lying

close by. It was therefore determined that the
three sportsmen, accompanied by H3^der Khan
-^nd their gun-bearers, should move quietly
ahead to post themselves, looking up any likely
spots on the way.

They were proceeding to do this when the tiger
bounced up with an indignant roar. He was
immediately saluted with a volley which only
seemed to accelerate his pace. As he galloped
over a bit of open ground, several more shots
were fired, but only the last (fired by young
Douglas), as he was entering the next patch of
-covert, could be recorded as a hit. A ' lookout
' man on the opposite bank then signalled
he had marked the tiger down into a small
patch of jow that was formed into a miniature
island by the shallow stream encircling it.
Above this, the bank of the river, thickly clothed
with brushwood and boulders of rock, rose
-abruptly. Taking a few beaters with them, the
sportsmen made a detour, and gained the top
of this bank, making the coolies throw stones
into the covert over their heads.

This roused the tiger, but he managed to slip
away unseen owing to the thick covert, and
gain the shelter of the little island into Which
he was marked, and from this stronghold neither
sticks nor stones, shots nor shouts, could rouse
him.

I tell you what,' said Ramsay, ' the only thing
to do is for one of us to get into that little boat
I see yonder, and paddle past the island, firing
broadsides into it whilst the other two remain
on the top of the bank on the chance of a snapshot.'


All right,' replied young Douglas, ever keen
to be in front where there was any danger to
be encountered. ' I'll go.'

No, no,' returned Jack, ' 1 won't have you go.
I as senior claim to lead that part of the attack -/
and he smiled, though with a look of quiet
resolve in his keen eyes. Afterwards Byng and
Douglas both recalled that look of calm determination.


This manoeuvre, however, "seas comparatively
unsuccessful. It roused the tiger truly, but he

dashed across the small intervening space of
open ground with such rapidity that he only
afforded Byng and Douglas snap shots which
did not hit, and regained his former retreat on
the bank. The party then tried to induce the
brute to appear from below, but, this attempt
likewise ending in failure, the original plan of
attacking him above was again resorted to.

1 see nothing for it,' observed Ramsay, * but
for us to walk the brute up. We can't leave him
behind us wounded, and he seems disinclined to
show ; what say you, Byng T

! Ism game,' was the reply.

So am I,' put in Douglas. ' Hooray ! we'll
have a real good scuffle at last.'

Forming up abreast, with Hyderr Khan and
the beaters covering their advance from above,
the three advanced slowly down-hill through
the thick brushwood, keeping a sharp look-out,
and with fingers on the triggers of their rifles.
Ramsay was on the right, Byng on the left, and
Douglas in the centre. Not a sign could they
see of the tiger, however. At last, as they neared

an accumulation of rocks from which a huge
boulder jutted out overhanging the slope, only
some four or five yards from Ramsay, and immediately
to his right, there came a warning
shout of ' Khubberdar !' (take card') from the
look-out man on the opposite bank. Owing to
the noise of the beaters above, the sportsmen
could not hear it, and the next moment with a
blood-curdling roar the tiger charged straight
out!

Ramsay had just time to put his rifle to
his shoulder and pull, when the next moment
he was knocked over, and he and the tiger
rolled over in a confused heap, and went crashing
through the bushes down the bank's side.
In the surprise and confusion consequent on this
sudden and unexpected attack, Byng and
Douglas had stepped back, and overbalancing
themselves fell. When they rose again, bewildered.
Jack and the tiger had disappeared,
whilst the beaters were flying terrified in all
directions I

Jack ! Jack ! where are you ? are you hurt ?

VOL. III. I

Sing out, for God's sake, man, and let us know
where yoii are,' shouted young Douglas.

But no response came. He and Byng looked
blankly at each other. They seemed simultaneously
to realize that their friend had been
carried off by the tiger, and that in all probability
he was dead !

We can't stand here, Byng, doing nothing,'
said the lad, after a pause, ' let us try and track
the brute up anyhow ;' and so without more ado
the two set out on their perilous errand.

The tracking did not prove a difficult task ;
the trail was only too apparent, from the shreds
of poor Ramsay's clothes torn off by the sharp
thorns through which he had been dragged,
and pools of blood lying here and there. A
few paces down-hill they came on his hat, then
on his rifle.

They had nearly reached the bottom of the
slope when Douglas stopped suddenly. His
quick eye had detected a slight movement in
the brushwood below him, on the edge of the
little open space between the island and the

bank, and only some forty yards from him.
Motioning to Byng to stop, he raised his rifle
to his shoulder, keeping his eye fixed on the
spot. The next moment the head and shoulders
of the tiger appeared. The brute had Ramsay's
inanimate body in his mouth, and was dragging
it along by the arm near the shoulder. At the
sight Douglas felt his heart beat as if it would
hurst, and his eye-balls almost started from their
sockets ; but with an effort he kept cool and
aimed as carefully as he could at the tiger's
head. He knew it was a great risk, and how
much depended on the shot. What if he should
kill his friend, dear old Jack ? Anything, however,
was better than letting him be carried off
under his very eyes. Even if he were not already
dead — better a thousand times death by
the bullet of a friend, than lacing slowly tortured
and chewed up by that bloodthirsty fiend. He
felt he must fire ; and as the tiger emerged fully
from the covert, and paused for a moment before
crossing to the island, he pulled I

I 2

At the report, there was a loud and angry
roar, the tiger dropped his burden, sprang high
in the air, with a bullet through his brain, and
fell back with a convulsive struggle by his victim,
the blood of both mingling on the sand !

The man-eater of Dolara was dead, and Jack
Kamsay avenged !

CHAPTER VII.

WHY DID HE DO IT 1

Let us return again to Forde Manor, where
early summer was coming over the land. Her
approach was heralded, as often in our island,
by constant showers that beat down the
meadow-grass, and covered the ground with
snowy carpets of horse-chestnut petals, and
pear and apple blossom. But, between-whiles,
the spring winds blew soft and fresh in one's
face, and the moist earth sent up a rich steaming
incense of fragrance ; and, at every gleam
of stray sunshine between the rains, a chorus of
birds burst out in such a glad twittering and

trilling of gladness, as could hardly be surpassed
in the finest of weather.

It was very quiet inside the big wrought-iron
gates of Forde. As yet no carriage passed the
lodge, and all cards were dropped there in
deference to Violet's wishes that she might be
left undisturbed in her mourning seclusion. All
through the park, and among the woods, one
might wander in a solitude almost equalling that
of Robinson Crusoe.

Of course there were neighbours who expressed
themselves surprised that Miss Vyvian
did not go * abroad,' or away somewhere, instead
of shutting herself up like some enchanted princess
behind her park walls. But, whatever one
does, there are always some people ready to
wonder that one does not do the contrary.

Violet felt what was best for herself; and this
tranquil time among her own woods and walks,
where every tree had known her from a child,
and seemed a friend that felt for her great trouble
of mind and the shock that for awhile had unnerved
her, was more restorative than the bustle

of travelling, or the loneliness in a crowd of
seaside or foreign towns.

And then all the rest of her neighbours, near
and far, showed themselves so kind, their best
feelings touched by the strange, brief tragedy
in which she had played so prominent a part.
For five-and-twenty years back, there had not
been seen thereabouts such a great funeral as
that of poor Cyril Yyvian. No one was asked
to attend ; the proceedings were kept as quiet
as possible, and yet somehow news of the hour
and day was passed round everywhere. From
far and near the county families and the lesser
gentry came, the Marshwood Vale Hunt to a
man, the farmers and even the villagers and
labourers in crowds with their wives and children.
And in all that gathering of pitying,
sympathising faces there was hardly an eye but
felt some unusual moisture, as after the coffin
was slowly borne into the churchyard between
the ranks of gazing spectators, who drew back
hushed and awestruck, all eyes turned on the
slight girlish figure who followed as chief

mourner, dressed all in white as if she was a
bride, though a widowed one in truth.

She looked like a snowdrop, so sweet and
pale,' said some of them afterwards. And,
though Violet Yyvian had always been a
favourite among her neighbours, never before
had the hearts of these so gone out to her, as
when they saw the young lonely girl, the last
of her family, standing by the grave of her promised
bridegroom. And the vicar's strong
voice had never so faltered in reading the beautiful
and solemn words of our burial service since
ever he was ordained; for all the while in his heart
he could not rid himself of the remembrance
that this day should have been the eve of Violet's
married life, that the morrow was to have been
her wedding-day.

Most of the people present marvelled at
Violet's calm bearing, though they understood
it by the stunned, bewildered look on her whiteface.
Some, indeed, found it affected them more
than anything else,' as they afterwards declared,
and at one moment Violet was herself roused

by a sudden big sob near her, and raised her
downcast eyes involuntarily to recognise with
faint wonder that it came from Major Ball. The
little man was staying with the Blatherwicks ;
having been previously invited by them for
Violet's wedding, he now came down at his own
request expressly to pay the last tribute of
friendship at poor Cyril's funeral. Profuse as
ever in his feelings, he fairly broke down on
seeing Violet, and, as he afterwards declared to
Mr. Blatherwick, ' made a fool of himself.'

I've often seen you make far more of a fool
of yourself,' was Billy's gruff rejoinder, who liked
his guest the better for it, having felt much the
same sensation of ridiculous weakness himself.

Then, when all was finished, what showers of
hothouse flowers were thrown into the open
gi-ave ; while the eager hands of little school-children
had gathered so many wild blossoms
that all around was strewed a carpet of primroses
and violets.

Many a one had for weeks past been cherishing
early flowers in cottage windows, and told

Miss Vyvian, when she called in passing, that
these were for her wedding. AVell, now they
were for her promised husband's funeral I Violet,
for the first time that day, broke down as she
glanced round at the sea of faces all gathered
there to feel with her, to sorrow for her. She
was obliged to draw down her veil, and old Mr.
Bentley, who had stood beside her all the time,
led her away weeping, supported on his arm,
while Rufus O'Brien and Mrs. Beaumont walked
on her other side.

'How good they all are — how kind! It
affects me more than if they did not care,' said
Violet, as, alone with Margaret Beaumont in her
own carriage, she locked her hand in that of her
friend. And then she repeated as she had
done before several times — but only to this
trusted friend —

0, Margaret, ivy did he do it f

'Why did he do it?' she went on aloud
to herself If he had heavy debts, he might
have trusted me. Yes, I should have forgiven
them.'

For awhile Margaret was sorely perplexed
how to answer. She, perhaps alone of all people
living save Kate, had an inkling of Avhat was
nearest the truth, but on that point she was
resolved to keep silent. At last she bethought
herself to say,

Dear, it was Cyril's secret. May he not
have been tempted by stress of circumstances,
or carried away by his passions, to some action
in his Hfe that you might think disgraceful.
Had you known it, you might have forgiven,,
yet not been able to bring yourself to marry
him. Perhaps he found it would be impossible
to keep this knowledge from you as his wife ;
and he chose death rather than you should
learn it.'

*It may have been so,' said Violet, slowly,
with a long sigh. ' And, if so, it seems to me
there is but one way in which 1 may do a last
thing for him, — and, who knows, give his poor
spirit rest, — that is, by trying not to troul»k'
myself more about what he did not wish me
to know.'

Poor Vyviau ! Why did he do it V That
was the wondering question on all lips in the
neighbourhood, for even more than the pro verbal
nine days of gossip. The doctor's opinion,
who saw Cyril's body and the position in which
his revolver had fallen, was reluctantly given to
the effect that it seemed unlikely that death was
the result of accident. 'But why should he
take his own life V people vainly reiterated. A
young fellow with the ball at his feet, so to
speak ; with the prospect of everything that
should made existence almost perfectly happy.
He must have been out of his mind.

Some witnesses gave evidence of having met
young Mr. Vyvian coming through the woods
towards his house that day about noon ; he
looked terribly pale, they said, and passed
them without seeming to recognise them.
His servants told how he had taken no lunch,
but had shut himself up in his own room.

Mrs. O'Brien, who was one of the last persons
who saw Cyril alive, only repeated mechanically
what she had before told Violet. Mr. Vyvian

came in and asked for her Island. Hearing
Rufus A\'as busy, he went away. ' That was
all she could tell them,' she added, with ashy
lips (her conscience excusing the sophistry on
the plea that she could not indeed say more).
Did he look ill ? She had not noticed him
much at the time, but looking back now she
feared he did. Mrs. O'Brien seemed so upset
since the shock of the sad event that she was
spared questioning as far as possible.

It was remarked by a good many people
and rather severely commented on, that Mrs.
O'Brien only, of all Violet's intimate friends,
had not appeared at Cyril's funeral, * and he
was such a friend of hers at one time !' it
was added, in a hostile spirit. People thought
very unkindly of Kate in those days, though
nothing was openly said. ' 0, no— for nothing
could be proved.'

But Violet herself had urged Kate after that
fainting-fit not again to overtax her nerves.
It was she xvho was, unknowingly, the unhappy
woman's warmest friend just then. For Kate had

come the morning after Cyril's death, as Violet
sat alone plunged in dejection and sorrow, and
throwing herself on the ground at her friend's
feet, while she buried her head in the lap of
the girl, gave way to an outburst of passionate
grief.

Oh, Violet, Violet, I want to tell you how sorry
I am for you,' lie sobbed. ' It wrings my heart
when I think how unkind I was often to you last
spring — and summer. And you forgave me so
sweetly; and — and now — ! But it will never
happen again, dear, never. Only let me try to
make up to you for the past ; indeed, indeed, I
will try.'

This fresh scene tried poor Violet's already
sorely-tasked nerves, yet she was grateful and
touched by Kate's intensity of penitent affection,
though wondering a little at it. Rufus, on
the other hand, was shame-faced and vexed that
his wife, of whose courage he had oftenboasted,
should now show ' no more pluck than a
chicken.' He did not understand her; nor
'Cyril's death — but no one else understood that.

Inexplicable I that was the general verdict pronounced
at last by the whole neighbourhood,
when all the contradictory rumours and suggestions,
uttered with deprecations and hushed
breath, were proved untenable as opinions. Xo :
no one knew the truth about it, in spite of mysterious
suppositions. And — old Mr. Bentley and
some other friends of influence having added
solemnly, that, as nothing now ever could be
known, the truest kindness to poor Vyvian's
memory was there to let the matter rest — to
their credit, be it said, the neighbourhood and
county society" in general almost universally
adopted this recommendation, which was felt to
be prompted by good taste. The dead surely
have a right to their own secrets.

There is plenty of thoughtfulness, after all, in
society, however heartless the latter may seem,
if some leader only appeals to the good feeling
c: of the others. No one wishes to be outdone
in delicacy or consideration. If a right
note is only struck, many, who would be otherwise
unconscious of the dumb music in their

souls, respond at once with a surprised
vibration.

How good they all are ! How much kindness
there is in the world, after all,' Violet repeated,
very often, with an emotion that though melancholy
was yet pleasurable.

Yes,' said Margaret Beaumont. ' Where else
should we get our ideals of goodness and friendship,
if they had never been practised on earth !
/ am not surprised by it.'

If 1 was a daughter or a sister, they could
hardly have called more often or written more
honestly sympathising letters, so nice in expression,
too,' said Violet, with grateful tears welling
up in her bright eyes.

They are really fond of you. Be happy in
the knowledge of that, for it is a great blessing
in life to be beloved. I don't know whether it
is a gift, or an acquired grace, but, whatever the
secret is, many of us would be glad to learn it,'
smiled Margaret Beaumont. She was thinking
Violet little knew that her own presence had
seemed like sunshine wherever she came ; and

that it was perhaps because of the girl's honest
faith ill the virtues and lovableuess of almost all
her neighbours, and her proud conviction from
childhood that there was no such other happy
shire in all England as this in which she had
been born and bred, that caused her now unconsciously
to reap a harvest of the affection she
had herself lavished on ail around her from a
^varm young heart brimming over with frankness
and generous kindness.

Day by day, therefore, under the benign influences
of friendly sympathy, youth's elastic
powers of recuperation, and nature's soothing
calm, Violet gradually recovered her spirits.
She mourned for Cyril truly, deeply ; but it was
as a dear friend and kinsman, rather than as one
to whom the best rich wine of a woman's love
has been given.

Often, however, there came hours of depression
and gloom, in which the loneliness, from
which the solitary girl had often suffered before,
was greater than ever. The darkness seemed
deepened over her own future ten-fold.

VOL. III. K

It is evidently my fate to be alone ; there is
no use in pitying myself too much. There are
so many women who have to go through life
pooi\ and without friends or comforts,' thought
the mistress of Forde at such times, with a sad
little smile on her lips whilst she tried to cheer
herself.

So, as was said, the full summer came after
long waiting, and Violet was, if not yet her old,
light-hearted, healthy self again, yet growing to
look brighter and better day by day. But it
was not so with Mrs. O'Brien.

One morning, Margaret Beaumont calling as
usual put the question that was now becoming
habitual :

And how is poor Kate to-day f

Ah ! she is not at all well, I am afraid, poor
Kate,' Violet answered, with a troubled look.
There seems nothing exactly the matter with
her. She is the cheeriest one of us always, but
she eats next to nothing, and she is growing
quite thin and changed.'

And yet she is in good spirits, you say V

0, yes. Whenever I am with her — ur
Risus either, I bereave — she is always trying to
brighten us up, and is ready for anything nowadays,
as you know, in the way of a walk with
the dogs, or down to the kennels to chat with
old Tom, or to see Ragged; just what she
used to hate formerly.'

I know,' quietly responded Margaret,
musing.

And, indeed, considering she was up at Forde
Manor every day, it would have been strange if
she had not known. But it happened upon that
very morning she had been the startled witness
of a scene that caused her secretly to doubt the
genuineness of Kate's good spirits. Coming
from Littleforde through the shrubberies, the
path skirted what had once been a quarry-pit,
but that was now transformed into a rosary.
Creepers and shrubs found coigns of vantage on
its sides, while a fringe of tall pines rose behind
outlined against the sky, and roses in thickets
and hedges, as standard bushes, or trained on
arches, filled the midst of the sheltered space.

K 2

The rosary was a most secluded little spot
especially in the mornings. No one ever went
there then, when Violet was busy with her
multifarious duties, and Rufus O'Brien was acting
as her secretary and right-hand man,
generally speaking. No one passing by, either,
could spy through the thick-clipped bank of
laurels that hedged in the front of the garden.
Only, at one spot, the drip from an overhanging
tree had thinned a laurel bush, and there any
inquisitive person parting the branches low
down might survey the hidden plot.

One small soul had been peeping through in
this way only half-an-hour ago. This was
Dolly, who, after once making the discovery,
almost invariably in passing remembered to
push her small face through the branches, though
never yet had her curiosity been rewarded by
any more remarkable sight than a blackbird
hopping boldly on the walk, or a wagtail flirting
his tail in the spring that giggled from the
rock. But on this morning, peeping as usual
into the enchanted ground (as she privately

thought it), Dolly beckoned so earnestly with
gestures admonishing silence that her mother
smilingly stooped down while the Httle maid
kept tugging at her arm, and eagerly bidding
her in a whisper to look.

sirs. O'Byan crying /' uttered the child, awestruck.


Margaret put her gently aside.

'0, no ! You are mistaken, Dolly dear.
She — she is only takiuo; a flv out of her eye
with her handkerchief, I think.'

But that glimpse had given Margaret a yiyid
impression of such an abandonment of grief, as
had weighed upon her mind eyer since. The
woman's figure within there, seated on a bench,
was bowed down sideways, as if her misery was
too great to endure.

'By-the-way, where is Kate? Shall we go
and find her ? I laye a holiday this morning,
for a wonder,' now went on Violet ; to which
proposal Margaret briefly agreed.

Let's look in the little rose-garden. Fink
she might be there,' put in Dolly, with a roguish

look at her mother. And in the rose-garden
they accordingly found Kate. She had started
lip at the sound of Dolly's voice, who kept
calling, 'Mrs. O'Byan I Mrs. O'Byan. We was
looking for you ;' and came to meet them quite
brightly as Violet anticipated. There was a
curious flush on her cheeks, where her hands
had been pressed to her face, and a strange
look in her eyes. But her sorrow, whatever
the cause, had been almost tearless. She
began talking at once with what Margaret
saw was a forced gaiety, but so well-feigned
that Violet, who would have been ready to
declare she knew thoroughly Kate's every mood,
was quite deceived by it.

How nice that you have no horrid letters to
write this lovely morning, Violet dear,' was
Kate's greeting. ' I am so glad you have both
come to dawdle about with me. Horribly lazy,
isn't it, Mrs. Beaumont, to be a do-nothing? I am
ashamed of myself, when you two are always so
busy; but it is such delicious weather for idling.'

Idling ! Margaret had never felt much sympathy

for the speaker heretofore, but her heart
ached for the poor soul at these words, whatever
the cause of Kate's hidden misery might
be.

Have you dot a fly in your eye V demanded
Dolly, with sympathising curiosity, staring up
earnestly at Mrs. O'Brien.

Margaret hastily drew the little inquisitor to
her own side.

Silly DoUikins. She is always thinking
everyone is like herself; her own eyes are such
terrible fly-traps. She got a big fly in one the
other day, and has never forgotten it.'

It was a week ago, and it was in my moiif — '
murmured Dolly, with injured feeling, her little
cheeks reddening that mother should make a
mistake over so painful an event, when forever
so long: she lead nearly * chokit.'

She slipped round to Violet's side, who saw
something was amiss, for they two were fast
friends ; so took her petted visitor off* to the
swing that had been hung under a great cedar
for little bliss Beaumont's special delight.

< A game of romps with the child does Violet
more good, I believe, than all our attempts to
divert her mind said Margaret, watching
them.

Yes,' slowly answered Kate, with a slight
catch in her breath, «I would give a great
deal to be able to do a little more for her.
But do you really think she feels his death inconsolably
f (in a hesitating voice). ' It may
seem unkind, but I have so been hoping she
would not — after a little while.'

I understand . . . yes ; 1 agree with you,
we may reasonably think so. It is no unkindness
answered Margaret.

And there was such a cheering, brisk reassurance
in her voice as brought comfort to the
troubled soul, that was eagerly listening for her
answer.

CHAPTER Viii.

KATE S REPENTANCE.

Next day, Mrs. Beaumont did au unusual thing.
She first coaxed her small tp-ant of a daughter
to ' help mother,' by undertaking the responsible
and "weighty task of going to buy pins
and cotton-reels in the village, accompanied
by nurse as privy-councillor and purse-bearer.
Next she herself set off for Forde Manor, as
was a very frequent occurrence. But, instead
of going directly to the house and asking for
Violet, she quietly betook herself on a search
through all the most secluded nooks of the
pleasure-grounds, including the rosary.

In vain ! Kate O'Brien was not so easily to be
found.

After pausing to think awhile, Margaret tried
in a fresh direction. There was a rather gloomy
wood on a slope from which a view could be
had of the old Manor-house, poor Cyril's home ;
and following a disused path that led there,
which necessitated plunging courageously
through long grass and brambles, she came at
last upon the object of her search.

Kate O'Brien was seated, on the mossy'ground
under a tree. In front Alas a little opening in
the wood through which one caught a glimpse
of the valley beneath and the old Manor grounds
opposite. It was a damp spot and dismal, for the
trees were wind-blown and stunted. Her hat
lay carelessly on the ground, and her head was
buried in her hands.

No doubt thinking herself safe from observation,
she was deaf to Margaret's light footfall on the
grassy path. Then — as if feeling some one was
looking at her — she suddenly raised her head,
with two large tears stealing down her cheeks.

and started violently ou finding herself discovered.


You need not mind me, dear — Violet is not
here,' said Margaret, soothingly, putting her
hand on Kate's shoulder, and, before the latter
could rise or speak, she had sat down beside
her.

*I have a fit of neuralgia to-day — it makes rae
cry like a child,' Kate answered sullenly, rather
defiantly. ' And here I thought no one would
come— people who are out of sorts are such a
nuisance.'

You had it yesterday, too. Dolly and I saw
you in the rosary seeming in pain. My dear,
1 was so sorry for you''

A thrill of alarm shot through Kate. She-asked,
quick and low,

Was that why Violet came to find me i You
told her perhaps '

'No, no; she knows nothing. Don't ])e
afraid. But it is why I came alone to search
for you to-day, to say low much I feel for your
great trouble. My poor Kate, I can guess how

terrible it is to keep anything on your mind to
yourself.'

The brown eyes looked with a world of pity
and lovingness straight into Kate's clouded face ;
the gentle voice was tender as that of a mother
speaking to her own child when it was sick.
Yet Kate trembled visibly and turned very
white.

What do you mean V she asked low ; ' keep
what to myself What do you — suppose V

I think you have taken Cyril's violent death
very greatly to heart,' returned Margaret, with
quiet frankness. ' Perhaps you are even blaming
yourself for your flirtation with him last
year. To be honest with you, I happen to know
how far that went . . . but come, dear, cheer
up ! You sent him away then ; you would not
listen to him.'

Kate, whose startled eyes had been fixed upon
the speaker with a growing terror, now burst
violently into tears.

But he blamed me, all the same. He said it
was my doing only, that he was mad enough to

urge me to — to — 0, I am betraying the dead
What do yon know ? how do you know anything?'


Very gently Margaret told her of the scene,
to which she had been an unwilling witness, that
winter morning when she left the skaters to
find Kate, who was a prisoner in the house from
cold.

You acted wrongly, no doubt, at first ; but you
followed the better promptings of your heart
afterwards. I was glad of it, and often should
have liked to tell you so.'

Yes, if the matter had rested there ! If I had
always done so !' answered Kate, wildly. Then
impelled by the longing to confide in some one,
with a woman's craving to confess and seek
sympathy, she besought Margaret in imploring
tones,

If I tell you something, will you promise
never to repeat it to any human being ? I
believe I can trust you ! — you would never tell
Violet?'

Then as Margaret Beaumont gave the required

promise, which so many thousands of
women exact and solemnly affirm — and then
often forget in half-an-hour, but which this
time would be honestly kept, for the little widow
had unusual reticence in the affairs of friendship
Kate began to unburden her bosom. She did
not tell her secret all at once. The cause of
Cyril's death was too dreadful for her to venture
on divulging it yet ; she must beat about the
bush, poor creature, first, and lead up by degrees
io the subject.

So, in spite of that earnest promise and the
immense relief of opening her heart to a friend
in whom she could thoroughly trust, Kate only
began explaining her own early story. She
told of grinding poverty in her father's home,
and how, fresh from school, she had married
Rufus O'Brien — not greatly caring for him, but
hoping to gain freedom and escape from the
prospects of drudgery as a governess. Once
married, she sought admiration, thinking it no
harm.

But, still, if I was not exactly ever in love

with my Island I liked liii better than
almost anyone else, and I trusted and respected
him always. As to poor Cyril, 1 never really
cared for him. It was very wicked of me, of
course, but I only began our flirtation out of
vanity, though it was* deadly earnest with him
then . . . and so matters went on '

Kate broke down at moments in dry, choking
sobs ; then began going over the old ground,
this time entering into details, and blaming
herself wildly.

Margaret consoled the poor creature as best
she could, while feeling there was more to come
for which she must wait patiently. After all,
though Kate had been vain and heartless, yet
Cyril, from being a willing victim to her powers
of fascination, was soon, it appeared, carried
away by his passions to becoming the tempter
in his turn. Above all things, Margaret ]beaumont
was a fair-minded woman, and in this
matter she tried to mete even justice, and not
allow pity to blind her to the dead man's
faults.

Then followed a short silence. Kate's downcast
glance wandered uneasily over the ground
beside her ; her features twitched. Now that it
had come to the point, she felt as if she could
not bring herself to say the last — and worst ! —
to divulge the true story of that terrible spring
morning, when Cyril had come in through the
terrace-window. Was it necessary to tell it,
after all ? Had she yet betrayed herself by her
late words.

Even while Kate hesitated, Margaret asked,
quietly, in the curious way that two people
often have of thinking of the same thing at the
same moment,

And you saw Cyril that last morning he was
alive ? You spoke to him about all this, perhaps
; and very likely reminded him of the
past.'

Hoi do you hioic T Kate started upright,
feeling stung to fresh remorse. The sullen look
left her face, but she gazed at Margaret as if
the latter had some mysterious power in divining
her thoughts.

1 only know it must have been so,' was the
quiet rejoinder. * Don't you think you might
as well tell me all about it, clear ; as you meant
to do, I feel sure, when first you began. 1 have
guessed lately that you alone knew the true
cause of Cyril's death. It may ease your
mind to tell me; and your secret will be
sacred.'

'I will tell you,' said the unhappy woman,
presently, in a muffled voice.

And without pause, as if fearing to lose
courage, she plunged into the whole story of the
suicide. Once she had begun, to do her justice,
Kate, with a reckless feeling that her confessor
should know the worst, kept nothing back.
She told the whole tale truthfully, as if standing
in the witness-box upon her oath. she glozed
nothing ; concealed nothing. Her own hatred
of poverty, and shrinking from being cast adrift
on the world, as it were, from their comfortable
quarters at Forde Manor ; then anger and
annoyance that Cyril, of all men, should 1)0 the
one to thrust her out ; beyond all, her true belief,

VOL. III. L

then, that Vyvian had been actuated by selfish
motives in his courtship, and that Violet was
not really happy in mind though she had
engaged herself to her cousin.

It was all genuine. Margaret could not
doubt for a moment that Kate was telling her
aught other than the truth. As the scene rose
before the listener's mind of Cyril's misery and
his death in the old study on that twilight
spring evening, but some few short weeks ago,
as it still seemed, the gentle woman was
appalled.

Then she roused herself to falter whatever
of truest kindness and solace her tender heart
could suggest in so unusually painful a case.
It was a difficult task, yet the pity and the love
which had begun to spring up in Margaret's
mind for this poor erring soul, as she felt for all
those brought within her knowledge who were
sorrowful or afflicted, inspired her with words
of consolation. Even without these, it was a
relief and comfort unspeakable, like balm to
poor Kate's aching mind, that she might sit

silent with her baud softly held in Margaret's
kindly clasp, and see those gentle brown eyes
meeting hers in sympathy and understanding.

In half-an-hour after she had first begun her
recital, though Kate O'Brien still wiped away
occasionally some trickling tears that ran down
her cheeks, and that sprang as much now from
gratitude to this friend, as from remorse at the
past, yet she had grown calmer than she had
been for weeks.

How was it that you thought of searching forme
here?' she asked, presently. 'Did you
guess I might be taking a last look at the
old Manor-house, before it is pulled down next
week V

'Yes, dear: that was it. I am glad that
Violet has given way to her agent's advice, and
lias consented to demolish those tottering old
walls before they fall into a heap of ruins. It
vnW be better for both of you not to see the old
Manor-house again, as it used to be. All that
will be left is a newer part near the stables, just
two or three rooms downstairs that will lodge

l2

the old servants comfortably for their Ives, and
there is enough accommodation overhead for a
bachelor, if Violet should some day require a
new agent.'

Both women were still sitting and talking in
the wood, when the clanging of the great
stable-bell startled them.

That is for me. I am late for lunch, and
could not hear the gong out here. Violet makes
such a fuss about me now when I am late for
meals, as if I was an invalid,' exclaimed Kate,
rising unwillingly to her feet. ' Do come and
let me talk to you again. I have not said half
I want to tell you. You have done me so much
good . . . May I talk to you again?'

Of course Margaret promised to come ; so the
next day, and during may more days, they
two held their private meetings in the tranquil
quiet of the woods, till Kate had repeated much
of her sad story and her bitter self-accusations
and repentance many times over, and Margaret
had striven to comfort her again and again. The
shock of Cyril Vyvian's suicide had indeed so

gi'catly affected Mrs. O'Brien's mind that she was
brooding continually on the subject.

If Margaret could not come daily to her, Kate
would now always make some excuse herself to
walk down to Littleforde. The longing to see
her only confidant constantly had taken strong
possession of her ; besides, though often pricked
to the heart by Margaret's tender but earnest
warnings and admonitions for the future, she
found such soothing relief in them for the past
that she always came back to this patient, loving
teacher.

Kate's higher education had begun in repentance
and searching of spirit.

Poor Kate ! what has made her and Margaret
Beaumont such friends, 1 wonder ?' thought
Violet, on beginning to notice the intimacy.
She was really glad to see it, for it had always
been a little trouble to her that these two had
hitherto kept on either side of herself, so to speak,
but never went together.

It will do Kate good,' decided the girl, with
warm-hearted pity, * poor soul !'

They all spoke habitually of Mrs. O'Brien as
poor Kate ' now, which is always a bad sign of
the mental or bodily well-being of the person
spoken of; though the expression rose so
naturally to their lips, they gave it no
thought.

CHAPTER IX.

A MESSAGE FROM THE EAST.

Honest confession is good for the sonl/ says
the proverb. So Kate O'Brien evidently found,
for after some days a more placid look came
back to her features, her efforts at cheerfulness
in Violet's presence were less forced. Alone
with Margaret, her confessor, she was less
agonised in spirit, and owned that though she
had been previously haunted by dreadful
dreams at night, or else had lain a prey to
wakefulness, she now began again to enjoy the
ineffable blessing of sleep without constant recourse
to the fiend chloral.

But something still remained behind unconfessed.
Kate jealously guarded the other secret
regarding Jack Ramsay, or strove to do so.
I will never tell that !' she repeated to herself,
all the more keenly alive to the shame and
poignant pain of such a revelation, that in this
matter she only was to blame. Jack had been
wholly innocent ; he had never hurt her by so
much as an unkind word, or thoughtless
action.

No, no — far otherwise !' mused Kate, remembering
only two well his handsome face and
manly bearing ; how kind he used to be to
almost everyone, and how utterly honest ; so
upright and honourable himself he could never
suppose her capable of having done him such
injury. As many persons try to renounce the
error of all their ways, except just a few pet
failings, and still —

Compound for sins they are inclined to,
By damning those they have no mind to

SO Mrs. O'Brien locked that secret of her own
falsehood in the deepest oubliette of her mind,

aud tried bard to forget it. But she could not
refrain from frequently, cautiously, creeping, as
it were, as near the subject in conversation with
Margaret as she dared. She longed that Jack's
cousin should talk openly about him, his possible
future, and his feelings ; she craved to hear
something — any news — of him. But Margaret
saw through these feints, and thought it best to
be silent.

At last the self-tortured woman could bear it
no longer, and once or twice she screwed up
lier courage to mention Captain Ramsay, in a
low voice and with downcast eyes.

AYill he come back, do you think? . . . come
back for Violet's sake, I mean V

'I cannot say, dear. Leave all that to rest
for the present ; till Cyril's grave is green,'
replied Margaret, gravely. She guessed that
the grand passion of this stormy, undisciplined
heart had throbbed for Jack Ramsay, and she
was sorry ; so sorry.

But if Mrs. O'Brien was somewhat more at
ease in her mind now, there seemed little improvement

in her bodily health. The warmth
of summer came at last, with a glad burst
after all the rains of May and early June, but
it brought no roses to her cheeks, although
those in the garden bloomed in glorious clusters.
Her step grew daily less' elastic, her figure lost
its rounded outlines, and the cough, that had
alarmed her friends in winter, became still more
troublesome.

Curiously, Kate seemed not to notice the
change in herself. When Violet sometimes
spoke to her anxiously about her health, she
only answered, with a perfectly careless, hopeful
smile,

Remember, the doctor said last time that
there was nothing the matter with me. 0,
Rufus told me so afterwards — don't try to deny
it. And dont make me ridiculous by sending
for him again. It is only nervousness, you
know.'

Sometimes Kate wearily wondered within
herself whether she really wished Jack Ramsay
back, and reconciled to Violet. She had

thought she did, during Cynl's engagement,
when such an event seemed far away in the
shadowy future, and she fancied herself doomed.
But noir, — that was the question ?

0, she did not know, only she repented — she
repented !

Here's a parcel for you from India, Violet.
It's all done up in a tin box and canvas, as neat
as nine pence. I'll bet anything you like it's
something from Jack Ramsay, and, if so, it will
be worth the having.'

So spake Rufus out of the unthinking fulness
of his heart, eager to take interest in all that
concerned the young mistress of Forde. He
brought the package himself into the hall as he
spoke, and laid it on the gi'cat, dark oak-table
among the piles of newspapers and magazines
that were spread thereon in true country-house
profusion.

He did not notice the set expression of Violet's
face as the girl asked him to force open thu lid
of the tin box for her. But then, having turned

away after doing so, subsiding into an arm-chair
and burying himself in some most interesting
details on dog-doctoring in the Field, he was
startled presently on looking round to see
Violet standing still where he had left her, but
with large bright tears slowly coursing down her
cheeks.

The poor girl was holding a letter in her
hand — Jack's letter of congratulation which he
had laid in the box with his wedding-present —
and its manly kind tone had quite overcome her,
arousing, too, such bitter-sweet remembrance of
the past.

Violet ! my dear girl ! What is the matter ?
come — what is it at all, at all f exclaimed Rufus,
jumping on his long legs as if galvanised. He
spoke vers gently, with a half comical yet
rueful tone, using one of his absurd Irish expressions
that generally made Violet laugh, in
the way he comforted Dolly, when that small
person fell and rasped her hands, or imagined
herself injured enough to howl. Now, Violet
was one of the few women alive who do look

well in tears. Her sweet grey eyes only grew
larger and more limpid while brimming with
woe ; her nose did not get red ; and her firm
mouth quivered only just enough to show that
she was bravely trying to fight her weakness
but that she slanted a little help sadly.

Rufus could think of nothing else but to pat
her shoulder mechanically, with his large heavy
hand coming down as regularly as the strokes
from a Nasmyth hammer. In reality he was so
deeply touched that, as he said to himself, it was
as much as flesh and blood could do to forbear
Passing Violet, out of pure desire to prove his
sympathy and give her consolation ; she looked
so pretty and so weak for the moment, so much
in need of being caressed and comfoi-ted. Only
an inkling that the remedy might not prove
agreeable helped his heroic efibrt to refrain himself.


The scene was becoming a little ludicrous, as
Violet suddenly felt, when Rufus began to pat
still harder on her back, now, as if she had a fish-bone
in her throat, and was choking ; and, her

emotion changing, she broke into a little hysterical
laugh and dried her eyes.

There ! thank you, Rufus — 1 am better now.
It was only a — a wedding-present from Captain
Ramsay, you know, and thinking about it I
broke down foolishly

(x\ll Violet's other wedding-presents had been
-carefully sent back to their owners some time
ago. Margaret Beaumont, that ever-helpful
friend, had herself fulfilled this task, without
stirring up Violet's grief afresh at her cousin's
Untimely end.)

But Rufus was not so easily blinded, ashe
said to himself. He had seen Miss Vyvian
weep naturally and sincerely for him who was to
have been her husband ; had watched her grief
and horror lessen by gentle degrees till the
pain was assuaged and only a shadow remained
on the naturally bright-hearted girl's face, and
an unwonted stillness upon her daily life. This
fresh gush of sorrow was therefore unaccountable
on the score of poor Cyril, thought O'Brien ;

and he put his head a little on one side, unconsciously,
as he stole a searching sidelong glance
at the mourner.

(' No ; it's crying as much for what might
have been, as for what is,' he sagely concluded.
For Jack Ramsay was the man for her, if it
hadn't been for that blessed will, as anyone with
half an eye could see. And Cyril, heaven forgive
the poor lad I was only second-best')

xMoud he said gently, with a slow motion of
head that wagged his great red beard to and
fro,

'It's a pity, Violet dear, that you had to
banish that poor fellow, isn't it now .^ Of
course, I could guess how it was. You did not
altogether want to give up your fortune and
the old place, and small blame to you ; and he,
like the thorough gentleman he is, either dared
not ask you at all to do it for his sake, or was
too proud to ask oftener than the once. Ph!'

Violet coloured like a rosy sunset cloud.

You are wrong — I mean not quite right,

Rufus,' she answered, in a stifled voice. ^ Captain
Ramsay may have Hked me . . . (I believe he
did). But that might not keep him from king
others better. In fact— 0, 1 can't tell you more !
Only I somehow doubted that he really liked
me hest

Rufus was silent a moment, giving an inward
whew !' Then he answered, firmly,

'You need not doubt that, then, my clear
girls any more. For if mortal man speaks
truth, trust Jack Ramsay to do so. And I'll
tell you now, what I've never said before even
to Kate, thinking he would not care for it to
be repeated, poor fellow, that I saw him the day
before he sailed. (You remember that time I
ran up to London to see about buying the
brown mare at Tattersall's.) Yes, I saw him at
his club ; and, from what he said to me, he
went with a sore heart to India, I can tell
you.'

What did he say '? 0, how good it was of
you, Rufus, to go and see him. But what did
he say V

We had lunch together, and it was when
we had about finished,' explained Rufus, with a
half apologetic tone, perhaps due to the memory
of that ' one glass more ' of old brown sherry
which had loosened his own heart-strings that
afternoon. ' It was no business of mine, I'll
grant you, but we had said something about the
jolly time we had all together down here at
Forde, and about old Harlequin, and that kind
of thing, you know '

Yes, yes. I understand.'

'And then 1 wound up by wishing we might
see him back once more some day. " Ah I my
boy*' I said, "if only we could have had you
settled in Forde Manor for good ; that would
have been the best of all. But, since that's past
praying for, it would warm my heart to see
you out once more with the old Marshwood
Vale." He gave my hand a great squeeze, and
said, "Thanks, old fellow, but I fear many a
long day Avill have gone by before you see me
again. I ^\'ill own to you that I care for Violet
Vyviun, as 1 never have cared and never shall

VOL. II [. M

care again for any other woman on earth. And,
though I wish for her happiness with all my
heart, I don't quite think I could stand seeing
her married to any other man.'

Violet had turned away her face, and was
desperately busy altering the arrangement of a
pile of Mareschal Noel roses in a blue china bowl ;
but her fingers were either very unsteady, or the
roses aggravating, for half of them fell on the
table, scattering their overblown petals.

And — that was all V she murmured.

Why, yes. I just said, maybe it would not
be for his peace of mind to return, but any way
I wished his good fortune might come some
day before he was aware of it. And with that
I shook his hand again, and said good-bye.
There was no more to say, you know.'

'No — I suppose not.'

And with hesitating steps Violet crossed the
hall, closed one of the windows, then remembering
vaguely it was a hot day pushed it
wider open ; bent out to inhale the sweetness of

the mignonette border on the terrace below;
then — becoming aware she was rudely turning
her back on good Rufus, who was standing
silently with patience by the central table,
uncertain whether he was wanted to go or stay
she smiled in a feeble, confused manner, and
murmuring that she had just 'to see about something,'
went slowly upstairs.

Dear me I' mused Rufus, burying his hands
in his pockets thoughtfully and looking after
her. ' I wonder, now, who would be the
next of kin if she did forfeit this place ? I
wonder '

For he was not certain of the precise terms
of the old squire's will, and dared not ask
Violet.

A fortnight later, the time had arrived when
Rufus O'Brien was accustomed to make his
yearly visit to Old Ireland. To his surprise,
and against the wishes of her friends, Kate announced
her intention of accompanying him, dem

2

daring the change of air would do her all the
good in the world. Rufus believed her, and was
delighted; for his own people were inclined to
look on his wife as too fine and too English to
care much about being friendly with them.

It will please my old mother beyond the
beyond /' he announced, with a broad grin of
satisfaction and an emphasis on the final expression
that made Violet laugh. (Rufus was
secretly highly pleased to rouse that merry peal
once more : he was a proud man if he succeeded
ill accomplishing such a feat once a day, and
racked his brains for whimsical idioms as her
self-appointed jester.)

And write to us once a week all the news
of the place, Violet dear, won't you V he urged ;
old Tom is not much of a penman ; and a fine
long letter about the young hounds and how
horses are all doing, and last but not least yourself,
would just gladden my heart — say, on a
Sunday morning — and do to think of during the
sermon. For we get forty minutes of a burst
sometimes over yonder,' nodding sideways to

designate the Channel ; ' and I'll not deceive
you by pretending that I'm in it after the first
quarter-of-an-hour.'

Very well,' quoth Violet, agreeably. ' What
day ought I to post it V

0, by all that's holy, I forgot,' quoth O'Brien
meditatively. ' Sunday's letters always come in
there on Saturday night, and even that's
doubtful;

Then, pretending to misunderstand the laughter
which greeted the bull he had perpetrated in
good faith, but now saw as quickly as anyone,
O'Brien hastened to explain, with an air of
simplicity,

You see, the postman at my mother's place
is a tailor — that is to say, he was one entirely,
and now he works between walking hours at
small jobs. The people pay him on Saturday
afternoons, more's the pity, and he generally
stands his friends a few glasses of whisky with
the favourite toast thereabouts : " Here's to
you, and you, boys I If this bo war, may
we never have peace !" After that, he's as

dank as a fiddler ; so often, if we're in a hurry
for Saturday evening's letters, we just turn out
and look along the roadside till we find him
asleep in a ditch with his head on the mail-bag.'


Time had been when Rufus used to irritate
his wife by his innocent lapse at times into
strong Irish accent, or idioms she thought vulgar.
But in these days, when he wilfully uttered all the
Hibernicisms he could think of, she had no word
of reproach. Her own real affection for Violet
now taught her to understand her husband's
innocent devices, and also gave her new sympathy
with him. To Margaret, she frankly confided
that she was going to Ireland simply to please
O'Brien.

Now, don't say a word against it. I have never
done so much for him in my life, that you
should dissuade me from making this little
sacrifice.'

Margaret would not try thus to influence her ;
perhaps it was best, as she agreed with Violet.
Yet these two were both uneasy as they looked

at Kate's altered, sharpened features and the
hectic patches in her cheeks. And so the
O'Briens left, meaning to stay in Ireland until
the autumn.

CHAPTER X.

LADY GUISARD TRIES WHAT SHE CAN DO.

It is strange,' said Margaret Beaumont, meditatively.
' I have not heard from Jack for months !
Let me see — the last news was, when he wrote
and sent you those boar's rushes, was it not V

Yes,' answered Violet, looking into the fire,
on either side of which the friends were sitting-after
a little cosy dinner for two. ' That was the
end of June, and now we are nearing October.
It is a long time, as you say.'

I remember — of course — there was another
letter, a mere scrap, saying that he thought of
going to Tibet, on a tiger-hunting expedition.

It came the very time T\'lieu Dolly had the
measles, a day or two after the O'Briens went to

Ireland. I do hope he is all right But, as

they say, no news is good news,' added Margaret,
comfortably. Then she suddenly cried out,
Oh I — I am so sorry. I beg your pardon.'
For Violet had turned a scared face upon her,
and the girl's hp visibly trembled.

Don't look like that,' went on Margaret, affectionately.
' I ought to have remembered, dear,
of course I knew — that is, I always guessed
that you used to care for Jack a little.'

Did you ? Well, I am glad you know,' very
slowly replied Violet, in a subdued voice. ' It
has revived again of late, somehow . I
thought it was all dead and buried long before
poor Cyril died.'

Cheer up, Violet. You will see it will all
horae right

How can it come right? He is there — and I
here,' was the answer, in a despairing tone.

*But he may come back soon?'

Who knows ? He may get killed out tiger-shooting

And at that idea Violet broke down
a little, and buried her face in the sofa cushion.
I feel convinced some accident has happened,'
she murmured.

'Nonsense,' ejaculated Mrs. Beaumont, briskly.
Look here, my child, will you trust me with
what passed between you two V

I can't tell you all — don't ask me questions,'
was the faltering reply. * But what I can tell
you, I will.'

Thereupon, though Mrs. Beaumont had not
an inkling of Kate's share in the transaction,
still she gleaned a faint idea of the general state
of the case.

Of course I cannot guess why you misdoubt
Jack's affection,' she said, musingly. ' To
onlookers, who proverbially see most of the
game, it was clear as noonday ; and I own I am
disappointed that you in some way mistrusted his
honour, dear. That, since I have known him
from boyhood, has been untarnished. He simply
could not do anything ungenerous or underhand.'


I believe you are right was all Violet answered
; which left the matter on that point
unexplained, but satisfied Margaret as to the
girl's present feelings.

Then they both talked over Jack Ramsay's
good points, wanning to the topic by mutual
friction of words of praise. Even though Violet
had kept her secret so long and bravely, yet
it was not only a relief but a positive gladness
at last to speak openly of her former lover. To
hear little stories of his generosity, even traits
of his childhood that she had not formerly
known, was keen pleasure after long starvation
from any such food to her love except memories
and they at one time had been banished by
all th might of her will as a wrong to Cyril.

Tell me, dear, if — no I I mean when Jack
does return, should anything more come of his
attachment to you, what would happen about
you' father's will V queried Margaret, hesitatingly.


I cannot tell,' was Violet's answer, with just
the least tinge of impatience or sadness in her

voice. ' There was something, I remember,
about leaving money for the promotion of sanitary
science, whatever that means. Poor father !
he had such odd whims. Ah! if only Cyril
could have had the dear old place instead. But
what is the use of thinking? Nothing may
come of it.'

To return to events of the past summer. After
the O'Briens left, Violet and her bosom friend
Margaret had proposed going off together on a
• little trip. They were still waiting and hesitating
about When and Where to go, as so many
people do when perfectly free, and almost asking
each other if it was worth while to go at all,
when accident decided them. Dolly became
unwell with a slight infantile complaint, and
was ordered change of air afterwards.

So being as anxious as a hen with one chick,
as she said, Margaret promptly declared she
must hurry away ; and as decidedly Violet
was stirred to accompany her. They crossed
to Normandy, as Violet shrank from English
watering-places where her name might be

recognised, and her tragic love-story discussed.

After rambling about in that pleasant old-world
of little towns, orchards, and farms, they
wandered into Brittany, further than most
visitors, scorning those villages where English
was ' understand ' of the people.

When at the close of September they set foot
once more on English soil, the Miss Vyvian who
returned to Forde Manor was more like her old,
bright, brisk self again.

God bless you, Miss. You do be looking $
hearty again : that's right,' uttered old Haggett,.
fervently. And Tom Harkholler gave vent
to a —

Welcome home. Miss Violet,' that was uttered
cheerily and loudly ; all the hounds in kennel
bursting into such a glad chorus of deep music,
while their dappled-white bodies were all
crowding and leaping up together with rejoicing
and confusion on recognising their mistress's
voice, as delighted her heart.

Now that Violet was known to have come
back, all the carriages in the neighbourhood

were to be seen during the next few days on
the road leading to Forde Manor. The neighbours,
on being admitted, were even more than
usually affectionate to their young favourite ;
and all, with one exception, studiously confined
their conversation to the various questions they
could possibly think of concerning Normandy
and Brittany.

Mr. Blatherwick was the only one who, with
his accustomed gruff frankness, burst out with
the remark :

We hope you are coming out with the
hounds again, as usual. Miss Vyvian.'

His wife instantly stirred on her chair uneasily,
and telegraphed to Billy a dozen scolding
and reproaches with movements of eyebrows
£ind excited facial contortions. But Violet answered,
with perfect calm,

Thank you. I hope you will see me out on
the first day. At least, 1 have every intention
at present of resuming my duties again.'

(* Sensible girl !' was Mr. Blatherwick's later
.commendation ; then, turning on his spouse :

She lias three times as much dominion-sense as
you, old lady. You nearly fidgeted yourself
into a fit just now, With all those grimaces
you made at me in the drawing-room, and you
see for yourself she vas all right.'

Well, well, Billy,' answered his good-humoured,
roundabout, better half. ' You and
she always did get on famously together : I
declare I shall have to be jealous')

The one exception to those neighbours who
tried to avoid all topics with Violet but the
safest generalities, was Lady Guisard. That
intrepid veteran of a countess and mother
arrived one day whilst Violet was still at lunch,
and, refusing inexorably all messages to come and
join in the repast, sat herself down in the empty
drawing-room to wait patiently — so she told the
butler with stern voice — till ]\Iiss Vyvian had
quite finished.

When Violet entered the room as quickly as
possible, having hurriedly swallowed some last
morsels of partridge, and denied herself any
higher luxuries to follow, she found her ladyship

sitting well forward in a high chair, with
both hands clasped on the top of her stick, and
her eyes fixed intently on the door, as if grudging
the seconds.

How-dy'-do, my dear? I am glad to see you
back, and looking — well, just as a good, sensible
girl like you ought to look — very well, upon the
whole,' she announced, with a critical, keen,
yet kindly glance at her young friend. ' I
came quite early on purpose that 1 might find
you by yourself.'

It is very good of you,' returned Violet, wishing
that she did not secretly feel that such intended
kindness was inconsiderate in its manner
of bestowal.

Not at all !^ promptly decided the dowager,
giving a little tap of her crutch-handled stick on
the floor, and glowering over it at Violet with
the air of one who knew what she was about and
only paid honour where honour was due. * You
were always a favourite of mine ; and, though
I consider you made a mistake once, we'll let
bygones be bygones

Violet inwardly started, rightly supposing tin's
alluded to her own rejection of the proud position
that Lady Guisard's daughter-in-law would
have held. How she inwardly regretted that
good wedge of luuchcon-cako she had just
denied herself I Having the healthy appetite of
a girl fond of exercise and open-air life, she felt
as if it might have supported her better through
the interview to follow.

In some terror she dashed into talk, but the
first topic that suggested itself was unfortunate.


The O'Briens are still in Ireland, so you
really find me alone for the present ; except
for Mrs. Beaumont who comes to see me very
often.'

I'm glad to hear it I' snapped the visitor, ^vho
had a trick of moving her lips as if she was
always eating something. * If Mrs. O'Brien
never came back at all, it would not be any
matter of great regret, in my opinion ; that is
plain English, my dear. She and your other
friend, Mrs. Beaumont, always remind me of

VOL. Ill, N

your good and bad angels, one on each side of
yon. Now, Mrs. Beaumont I approve of.'

Yes, though you think them such opposites,
they are both now ou the best of terms, I assure
you,' said Violet, mischievously; aware that since
the old lady had once detected Kate in some
slight mimicry of the Guisard peculiarities it
was a case of vendetta.

There is no accounting for such likings,
except that each may be trying to get the better
of the other,' severely replied her ladyship, mumbling
more than ever. Then she paused a few
seconds as if collecting her forces before resuming
— with a sudden energy that almost took
away Violet's breath.

But I sincerely trust that you are not going
to have these O'Briens always about you. Yoii
are not going to let them keep you from being
married. A girl with your face and figure — it
isn't likely !'

Violet could not speak. She was angered at
her own weakness, but she felt half inclined to
crv.

There, chill, I have vexed you I What a
Heartless old woman you will think me. But it
isn't really so at all, my dear, far from it. Only
that I am sincerely fond of you, Violet ; next to
Guisard, 1 do believe I care more for you than for
any other living being ; certainly I know no girl
I would compare with you. So you see, once I
knew you back again and free to do what you
like with your life, I could not resist the longing
that came upon me to ask you candidly if there
is no fresh chance for my son.'

I am afraid there is none.'

Afraid, eh ! you have not made up your
mind ? Now, dont interrupt, but hear me, like a
dear girl. You have really no idea how much
Guisard was attached to you ; he took your
refusal to heart in a way that made me quite
sorry for the poor fellow. For days he moped
and would hardly speak to anyone — not even tome.'


(sulky! It was the first time, perhaps, his
pride had such a severe fall,' thought Violet, but
though she made a gesture deprecating any

N 2

further discussion the old lady pretended not
to notice it, and only imperiously hurried on her
argument.)

And between ourselves, my dear Violet, I
will confide in you, he is a very easily managed
man. Only pretend to give in to him now and
then in little things, and you can do as you
please about the larger ones ; now / can twist
him round my finger. Then, besides his really
liking you much more than many men do
the girls that — well, that providence seems to
have appointed them to marry '

Heiresses V silently put in Violet, with an
irrepressible, faint smile on her lips.

You know what I mean. An old family
and title Hke ours must be kept up — so ought
the Vyvian name, though it is of less importance.'
(The old lady was making frightful contortions
of visage, being vexed at her own slip.)
And, besides, as I was saying, though some
young ladies might think that the affection of a
crabbed old woman like myself need not count
for much, still, as mothers-in-law are generally

thought disagreeable, it might be worth .something
to have one who is really fond of you.
My little girl died when nine years old, Violet —
I felt her loss more than you Avould think.
And, somehow, 1 set my heart two years ago
on the hope that you would some day be a
daughter to me, instead.'

The grim old woman had really some tears in
her eyes ; there was an entreating, anxious look
on her face that troubled Violet more than she
could have supposed.

Dear Lady Guisard,' she said, softly, putting
her hand on her visitor's arm. * I am so sorry
so very sorry ! I hope you will let me see
you often, and be as much to you as I can,
]3Ut '

But you won't marry Guisard,' came sharply
in reply. 'Not even if he asks you himself?
He icill ; if I can promise him that he is certain
not to be refused again.'

It is impossible ; indeed it is. I am not
likely ever to marry at all, now.'

Lady Guisard was silent for a few seconds,

working her poor old mouth terribly, as if
chewing her disappointment, and finding it a
bitter morsel. Finally she said with a great
effort at fairness and resignation, yet unable to
keep her voice from sounding harsh,

Well, well, child ! I wish you may get a
good husband, nevertheless. But, let me tell
you, if you mean still to look for one in the
peerage, you will find there are some worse men
with titles than my son.'

'Very likely — I know he is a good son to
you ; and that has always given me a kindly
feeling towards him,' answered Yiolet, gravely,
though conscious of some pity for the Upper
House. Then she kissed the old lady's withered
cheek, who had risen grimly, and with an effort,
being stiff from rheumatism ; and in silence they
parted.

Violet stood leaning against the mantelpiece,
lost in thought. She felt suddenly again despondent,
depressed because she had given pain
against her will, and the sensation of great

loneliness the world once more took possession
of her. She did not notice that the door had
opened a second time till the name of mr.
Beaten, who was being announced, struck her
ear.

What ! in a brown study V exclaimed that
brisk old man, coming cheerily forward, and
bearing the weight of his years with a sturdy
air. He took Violet's hand, and patted it,
while peering with friendly scrutiny into her
face. This was the second time he had seen
her since her mourning, for he had been the
very first to call after his favourite's return.

Come ; you look troubled, my dear. I have
just met my Lady Guisard going out looking
as black as night ; she would hardly deign to
speak to me. May I do the simple sum of adding
two and two together?' he asked, with
men kindliness.

Provided you do not ask me whether
your calculation is right,' laughed Violet.

ril answer for it, I am not far wrong,*

chuckled her father's old friend, with a shrewd
smile. ' She came as ambassadress to offer
yon a coronet, I'll wager any money ; and yon
thanked her kindly, but did not care for its
encumbrance.'

He looked so sly, and hugely pleased with
his own perspicuity, that Violet could not help
laughing.

Come, that's right !' went on the old squire.
I'll tell you what, my dear girl, take my advice,
and don't trouble your head any more about
your father's will ; I say so, though he was my
best friend. Why, bless my soul ! I know he
only got so crotchet after that fall he had
when old Gambol came down, by some
accident, at a rotten little fence a donkey could
have walked over, and in getting up the horse
gave your father a kick on the back of the head.
If he had been the man he was when we were
young fellows together, he never would have
signed his name to such an absurdity.'

*But how can I avoid obeying it? unless,
indeed, I forfeit the estate !*

'How? Because, now poor Cyril i.s gone,
who i.s to stop you from doing as you like?
To my certain knowledge, there is not a living
one of your family left who could inherit.
Only Cyril's name was mentioned as the .
Choose whom you like in the Avorld, my
dear. I only wish it might be some good fellow

like my well, no matter !' (He had meant

to say his godson, Jack Ramsay.)

But are you certain V asked Violet, blushing ;
for she guessed whose name had almost crossed
his lips.

'Certain? Perfectly certain I Why, I was
one of the executors myself; and 1 spoke to
Denny and Hermann ' (these were Violet's
lawyers) 'about it yesterday, thinking somehow
you might not know the rights of the
case.'

And the clause about sanitary science —
some future great bequest for that purpose?'

All stuff. That was only in case you and
Cyril left no heirs, and hesitated hoar to bequeath
the property.'

Violet stood amazed.

No, I never knew,' she said, slowly. ' I
remember being so confused when my father's
strange will was read out, that I suppose I did
not understand the latter part of it.'

CHAPTER XL

JACK R EDI VI V US.

A DAMP, ming-gy day towards the middle of
October, and the train again disgorges a
passenger at Forde Station.

He is the same whose acquaintance we made
in the opening chapter — Jack Ramsay. Well-nigh
two years have passed since then, and in
the bronzed but somewhat spare and weakened
figure, that steps out with a little shiver from
the Avarni, well-lighted first-class carriage, into
the chill autumnal air, one might hesitate for a
moment to recognise the handsome soldier of so-little
while ago ; for the fierce rays of an Indian
sun, and sickness, have both lust their mark on

that erect, stalwart frame. His left coat-sleeve
is empty, too, and he does not spring off the
carriage step with the elasticity of former
years.

That morning Margaret Beaumont had been
surprised by getting a telegram from Ramsay,
saying he was coming to see her for a few
days. Some months had passed without her
having received any tidings of her cousin ; but
knowing that he had contemplated a trip into
the far-distant regions of Tibet, from whence
the difficulties of communication would be great,
she had not felt very uneasy on the score of his
silence. It was therefore with feelings of intense
pleasure, mingled with surprise, that she
received the announcement that he was already
in England, and would be at her house in a
few hours. Kind-hearted Margaret had accordingly
been busy all day making preparations
for receiving her guest, and arranging all those
little matters of household detail for the comfort
of her visitor which only a thoughtful woman
can do properly. Dolly, too, was also on the

tip-toe of excitement at the prospect of seeing
Uncle Jack,' whom she had by no means
forgotten.

At last there was a ring at the bell, and the
child darted out into the hall; the next moment
she was clinging round Jack's neck and
covering him with kisses.

My dear boy, I am so delighted to see you,'
said Mrs. Beaumont, coming forward with outstretched
hands, and greeting him warmly.
Here, let me help you off with your coat — but,
good gracious !' and she turned pale at the sight
of the empty sleeve.

Dolly, too, noticing the deficiency for the
first time, said, soothingly,

'Poor Uncle Jack, where is your other
hand r

! never mind,' laughed Ramsay. ' It was
a naughty hand, Dolly, and so 1 had to have him
cut off'; but, if you are a good girl, I'll tell you
all the story after mother has given me some
tea.'

There are few things that appeal more to the

feelings of those who have spent any length of
time abroad than the comforts of an English
home, and Jack was no exception.

As he sat in the depths of an easy and luxurious
arm-chair, an old favourite of his, warming
himself before a cheery wood and coal fire,
with Dolly and her mother waiting on him, and
plying him with relays of tea and hot muffins,
he gave a long-drawn sigh of relief, and said,
as his gaze wandered round the familiar and
cosy room,

Ah ! well, this is worth coming back for.'

After the first few moments of conversation,
Dolly, who had hitherto with laudable self-control
restrained herself, broke out with.

When are you going to tell us the story of the
naughty hand, Uncle Jack T

Well, I suppose I must give an account of
myself,' smiled Jack, ' so here goes ; and when I
have told you all, Madge dear, I'm sure you
won't scold me for not writing to you. In
March I went out on a shinar expedition with

two friends, Byng* and Douglas. Wo had pretty
good sport, but at last got to a place called Do-hara,
Avhcrc there was a notorious man-eating
tiger, and this gentleman we determined to do
for, thtrngh as events subsequently proved he
nearly (//^/ for me! We put him up, and had
several shots at him, and then, as he was a
cowardly brute and declined to show light, we
tried *' ivalkincj him up." Quite unexpectedly, he
charged out, and I had only tune to fire one
barrel at him when the next moment he was
on me ! I can just remember seeing visions of a
great pair of open red jaws and gleaming teeth,
then experiencing a smell of hot, foetid breath,
being knocked flat, and seized by my left arm.
I remember struggling for a moment, and then
nothing more, till I found myself being carried
along at night on my bed. It appeared that the
brute was dragging me off (probably with a
view of seeing if white man tasted letter
than black I) when young Douglas, like the
brick that he is, f(jllowcd the beast up, and shot

him dead as I was iu his jaws. Both Douglas
and Byng thought at first that I was dead ; but
with great presence of mind they dressed my
wounds with carbolic acid, and had me then
and there carried some seventy miles to the
nearest railway-station, where I arrived more
dead than alive. Luckily there was a native
doctor there who did what ho could for me, and
I was got back to cantonments somehow. Then
I was very ill for some two months, had fever
and delirium, and all sorts of things, and they
never thought 1 would pull through. The doctors
wanted to take my arm off, but I was loth
to part With it, and so hung on in the hopes it
would get right. But great splinters of bone
kept coming out, causing me awful pain, and
the wound would not heal ; so I went down to
Bombay to consult a clever surgeon. The journey
knocked me up again, however, and for
another month or so I had a very bad time of
it, and was twice given over. At last I got so
sick of my arm that I consented to have it off;
and thanks to God, and a pretty sound constitution,

got over it all. Then I got a year's sick-leave,
came home — aud here I am.'

What a merciful escape !' exclaimed Margaret.
'My poor Jack — aud to think that I never
knew of all this.'

Poor Uncle Jack,' whispered Dolly, in low,
sympathizing tones, patting Ramsay's cheek.
'What a bad, wicked tiger. Auntie Vi will be
so sorry.'

At the mention of Violet's name, Jack flushed
up, and enquired, hesitatingly,

How is Mrs. Vyvian and — and Cyril f

He could not bring himself to say ' her
husband.'

Mrs. Beaumont noticed his confusion, but was
staggered at his ignorance of past events. Still
she had presence of mind enough not to say anything
before Dolly, and a moment's reflection
enabled her to see that, owing to Jack's illness,
he could not have heard of Cyril's sad death.
She therefore turned the conversation by merely
answering,

! Violet is very well. She is away from
VOL. III.

home, but will be back in a fortnight, in time for
the opening meet. She will be delighted to see
you. But come,' she added, ' it is your bed-time,
Miss Dolly ; and you,' turning to Jack, ' will be glad
to go and change your things. Then after dinner
I will come and sit with you, whilst you have
your smoke, and tell you all the news of the
neighbourhood, and what has happened whilst
you have been away

After dinner, accordingly, when coffee was
brought, and the time had come for intimate
conversation and the soothing influence of tobacco,
Jack braced himself, with a conscious
effort, to hear his cousin's budget of chat.

Daring dinner he felt anxious to keep their
talk on all manner of subjects save the one of
the Marshwood Vale Hounds and their fair
M.F.H. , not guessing that Margaret was
equally eager to help him in this.

What a coward I must be !' he now said to
himself, with a reluctant sigh, like a boy shivering
on the brink of a stream. *Come, the

plunge must be taken sooner or later — and the
sooner the better ! Well, here goes !'

Subduing his voice, as he hoped, to quiet indifference
Jack therefore began :

So our Forde Manor neighbours are absent,
you say V

Yes, Violet has gone up to London to get
Mrs. O'Brien the best doctors' advice. You
have not heard that poor Kate is ill ? No ; of
course not — but you will be sorry to see her,'
answered Margaret, with nervousness. ' Her
lungs are attacked, they think ; and she is
wasting to nothing ; her cheeks are quite hollow
now, and her eyes seem bigger than ever. She
is still handsome, of course, but Avhen one
remembers what she was '

She was beautiful, though it was not by any
means the style of beauty that most attracted
me,' replied Jack, quietly. ' But I am very sorry
to hear it. Is Rufus gone with the Vyviansand
Mrs. O'Brien?'

No. He is looking after Violet's affairs, aso

2

usual. Curiously, he does not see his wife's ill
health as we all do ; but then he has been with
her every day, and so has grown accustomed toit
gradually. Violet writes me privately that,
though Kate's life may be prolonged for some
years, they fear she will suffer terribly from a
wasting and hopeless illness.'

Poor woman ! And why does not Cyril hunt
the hounds himself? Where is he ? But, of
course, in town with his — with Mrs. Vyvian.'

No,' said Margaret, low. ' No '

What do you mean V asked Jack, with a
start. ' You say that so strangely. Whit is he
not with Violet V

He will never more be with her on earth,
dear Jack. His has been a sad fate. I did not
like to tell all this news at dinner, for it is a
very sorrowful story — but he is dead.'

Dead!' The tremor that rushed through
Jack's frame was visible. ' Dead ! It is soon
indeed for her to be a widow.'

Not that. She was never a wife. Jack. But
you shall hear the whole tale.'

As Margaret told of the tragedy that had
take place last spring in the old Manor-house,
with its sad details, and of poor Cyril's happiness
so ruthlessly cut short by his own sudden
and desperate rashness, Jack Ramsay sat with
one elbow ou his knee, and his head leant on his
hand — turned away so that his features were
hidden — gazing into the fire. He did not utter
a word, by which his thoughts could be guessed,
till the end. Then he said, low :

And so his death is considered an inexplicable
mystery. Do you know nothing more concerning
the cause V

'That is all 1 can tell you,' returned his
cousin, a little confused.

All you can tell me ! Yes ; perhaps. But
you and I may have our surmises, Madge, and
I should not be greatly sm-prised if we both had
pretty similar ones— Well ! he is dead; and sono
more need be said.'

Then, after a fcAv seconds' pause, Ramsay
added, in a very musing, subdued vein of
thought.

And Mrs. O'Brien is away, too, you say . . .
All the better. Then I think I shall go to see
Rufus to-moiTOW. But I am very tired to-night,
Margaret, and if you will not think me selfish,
dear, I should like to go off to my room. You
will forgive an invalid's whims V

Margaret looked affectionately up at Ramsay,
who had risen and was leaning with his
back to the fireplace. Seeing his handsome
face, thin from illness, and troubled now as she
fancied by some inward agitation — though he
strove to hide all such signs of emotion — his empty
sleeve, and the sight languor of his formerly
so active frame, her heart was smitten with
pity.

*Yes; go to your bed, my dear boy; and I
do hope you will sleep well,' she warmly
answered.

Yet she was not surprised, two hours later, to
hear Jack moving restlessly overhead in his
room. Margaret's story had plainly not acted
as a soporific.

The next day after breakfast, a smoke, and

having glanced over the newspaper with impatient
eyes, Ramsay thought to himself :

'It can't be too early, now. Til look old
Rufus up. How pleased he will be to sec
me!'

So, twenty minutes later, Ramsay stood once
more on the well-remembered terrace before
Forde Manor with its red brick walls and white
stone facings.

Hearing that Mr. O'Brien was in the study,
from the old butler who received Ramsay with
respectful pleasure and astonishment, and
glanced pityingly at where his left arm was
not, the visitor asked with a smile to be left to
announce himself.

There is nothing like a true friend, after all.
A woman who loves one may be fickle, but a
man one thoroughly knows, and whose friendship
has been tried — he is to be trusted always*
thought Jack, softly opening the study-door.


Rufus O'Brien was seated at a large bureau,
with his back turned to the incomer, and numerous

business papers spread iu confusion round
his elbows that were plunged among them. His
head was propped upon this hands in an attitude
of absorbed attention, and he was smoking like
a furnace while studying the turf-column in the
Field.

0, go to Jericho !' he exclaimed, in a rather
savage voice, as Jack came in. * I heard you
were likely to look in this morning, but I'm not
ready to see you for an hour yet. Can you not
leave a poor wretch in peace V

All right, old fellow,' answered Jack mildly,
though with pretty considerable astonishment
in his voice, ' I'll come back another '

He did not end his sentence, however ; for at
the sound of his voice Eufus suddenly faced
round, then with a great exclamation of astonishment
almost upset a heavy chair in the
bound he made to greet Ramsay with outstretched
hand.

Is this really yourself? How, in the name of
wonder, did you drop down here from the skies
like this? Hallo '

His gaze was fixed expressively on Jack's
limp coat-sleeve.

Yes,' returned Jack, quietly. ' The fortune
of tiger-hunting. First of all a man-eater got
me, and then my party got him. Sick-leave
was the result — and here I am.'

Sit down, old man, and tell me the whole
story. Where is my pipe ? — 0, lucky devil that
you are, why wasn't I ever born to the chance
of potting a tiger I' (Rufus wished to say something
extremely consolatory, so hit on the bright
idea of pretending to envy his companion's
loss.)

'But you seemed so particularly engaged
when I came in. Shall I go for an hour to —
not Jericho, but about the dear old place here,
and leave you in peace V asked Jack, with a
grin.

I thought you were the agent. You remember
the old fellow — he is always bothering
about business, and never will let me look at
the racing news in peace.' And, with hospitable
eagerness, Rufus gave a vigorous shove to the

most comfortable arm-chair, and indicated it
to his guest. ' There ! It isn't every day
you come back, my dear boy, (and I only
hope you may be back here now for good
and all). So business may wait in your honour,
as Violet herself would agree, I'll be
bound.'

Jack felt himself as embarrassed as a shy
schoolboy, at the mere mention of Violet's
name. He plunged nervously into a sketch of
his late hunting-tour, ending with his voyage
home ; and so after some talk had recovered his
equanimity, when Rufus looked fixedly at him,
and deliberately said,

So that is your story . . . Well, and now,
old fellow, though I am heartily sorry you have
lost your arm, yet, let me tell you, it won't bethe
first time that a one-armed man has hunted
hounds well, as I hope and trust to see you
hunt our Marshwood Vale pack many a day.
And I'll be as glad to have you for our M.F.H.
as ever I was to have Violet herself, which is

more than I could say to any other man
living.'

'The M.F.H.— me !' Jack blushed a dark red.
*Why — what do you mean?'

What should 1 mean, but that, unless you
wilfully refuse the blessings of Providence, you
may be master here not only of the hounds, but
of Forde Manor. Come, come, Ramsay, 1 don't
forget what you told me of your feelings that
last day before you sailed for India ; so unless
you have changed your mind '

*I can never change about that, O'Brien.
But — she — Violet herself sent me away.'

Then, like many another girl, she has been
wishing you back, or why should she spoil her
pretty eyes crying over your wedding-present ?
That's all I know,' blurted out Rufus.

No I Did she — ? No mistake, old fellow V
You are certain about this?' Jack's eyes
sparkled now ; his voice and whole demeanour
were alert, as in the days of his most vigorous
health.

As certain as ever I was in my life ; though
what parted yon both, unless it was that mad
will, beats me. Go in and win — the fortune is
all right now, and Violet may marry whomsoever
she pleases —

" Faint heart ne'er won fair lady." '

After a silence, Jack said, in a musing
tone,

I am thankful, now, I made up my mind onboard
ship to come down here. Thinking
Violet Alas Cyril's wife long ago, it seemed so
hard to return to the old place and see them.
Whilst I was well, I always meant to keep away,
for that reason.'

I remember ; you told me so. Then, what
brought you T

Because, for one thing, I had no friend but
my cousin Margaret to go to, my sister being
out of England again. And, lying there for
hours awake in my berth, it seemed to get clear
to me, that if I could not endure to see the

happiness of others, even though I sufFered, I
must be a selfish brute. It was a struggle — but
I came,' said Jack, simply.

CHAPTER XII.

THE LAST RUN.

The commencement of the hunting-season, in
the first week of November, was ushered in by
a fine bright morning, with just that tinge of
frost in the air which so often predicts a
good scenting-day. The hedges had lost
their summer covering, and now presented buta
bare network of branches and twigs, and,
though the ditches were still somewhat blind,
everything denoted that all was ready for
regular hunting to begin.

An unusually early harvest had allowed the
legitimate business of cub-hunting to be begun
at a much earlier date than usual. Old Tom

Harkhollcr and bis attendant satellites had been
busy among the cubs, and every litter had been
well routed up at least once or twice. Rain had
fallen plenteously for the last week, which made
the ground ride soft and afforded good going.
In fact, all conditions pointed to a successful
opening of the season which was inaugurated
as was customary by a meet at Forde Manor,
where a capital breakfast awaited all comers.

The scene in front of the house was a bright
and animated one. Numerous horses, from the
high-conditioned hunter to the rough-coated
farmer's hackney, were being led up and down
on the well-gravelled drive, whilst their respective
owners were inside partaking of the good
cheer provided by their lady M.F.H. Dog-carts,
polo-carts, waggonettes, and landaus drove up
in rapid succession and discharged their loads
of referred and cloaked womankind and children,
all bent on seeing the great sight. On
the green sward of the park beyond the lawn,
Tom Harkhollcr and his whips in charge of the
pack were moving gently to and fro ; now and

then stopping to have a moment's conversation
with some extra enthusiastic member of the
Hint, as to the merits of the young entry or the
condition of the pack in general.

Altogether it was a gay and cheery scene ;
but, as one lawn-meet is much the same as
another, it is useless to waste time in further
description ; so let us get ' forrard ' and find the
little red rascal,' for whose destruction this
concourse of men, women, horses, and hounds
have assembled.

One figure among the group is, however,
conspicuous by his absence — Jack Ramsay. He
had heard from Rufus that the first draw was
to be a small gorse some two miles distant, and
thither he had betaken himself to avoid the
awkwardness of meeting Violet for the first
time in public. He had not arrived at this
decision till after debating the matter well
in his mind. His conversations with Margaret
Beaumont and Rufus had pointed conclusively
to the fact that his place in Violet's heart had
never been filled by another, and he determined

to again renew his suit, confident that this time
lie would meet with success.

Still, he told himself, it were best to delay
matters till he could meet aud talk to Violet
quietly; and in this he was influenced by the
wish to avoid giving the woman he so dearly
loved even the slight cause of embarrassment
that a first meeting in public might occasion
her. He thought it, therefore, wisest to keep
away from the meet, drop unobserved into the
run, and take the opportunity of a quiet ride
home after the day's sport to speak his mind
aud learn his fate. As to the result, he felt
sanguine enough ; for Squire Bentley, with
whom he had died the previous evening, had
spoken very openly to him on the subject. His
old godfather told of the second refusal Lord
Guisard had experienced, and his own conviction
that he (Jack) was the favourite ; adding,
as he wished him good-night with a hearty slap
on the back,

« Go in, my boy, and win !'

Brenda had been sent over to the Littlcfordo

VOL. Il P

stables, and, though she might be deemed rather
a handful for a man with only one arm, was his
mount for the day.

And Avhat, meantime, were Violet's feelings ?
The poor girl had only returned with Kate
from London on the previous afternoon, and
was fairly overwhelmed with joy, pity, and the
rush of mingled hopes and fears, as Rufus proudly
announced his news. That good-natured
giant, standing with his back to a roaring log-fire
in the hall, was so occupied with the pleasure
of surprising Violet (who had sat down fora
few minutes after taking off her wraps) that,
in watching a flush of surprised delight that
overspread her face, he never noticed the ghastly
pallor of his wife.

It was Violet herself who, after a few
moments of breathless silence, suddenly said,
in a low, almost repentant tone,

Poor Kate ! You are worn out after the
journey, dear. How thoughtless we are ! —
Rufus, do help her upstairs ; she must lie down

now, and wc will send her dinner tc her room
if she is very tired.'

Then as soon as possible she sought refuge
gladly in the privacy of her own study, where
she could give way unrestrained to a little shower
of tears through which she smiled.

'He has come back — come back to me!' her
heart seemed singing the refrain ; yet again
when she thought of how ill Jack Ramsay had
been, how enfeebled still, as Rufus said, and
crippled of his left arm, it melted with tender
sorrow over her lover. Violet went very early to
rest that night, yet for hours was wakeful with
tremors of anticipation ; delicious hopes that he
had returned to see herself, because he loved
her, uneasy fears that somehow she might be
mistaken.

And what of Kate ? To her the news was a
terrible shock. In a flash, she knew that, sooner
or later, the story of her own baseness must be
revealed. The lovers could no longer be parted ;
she felt it must be so, and quailed at the revels



thou of her perfidy towards both. Oh ! she had
wished (at least, she believed so,) that they
might come together, but that was to be after
her death. She had inwardly repented ; but,
alas I had never had strength of mind to confess !
And, worst of all, though she had struggled hard
to maintain her good resolves to think of Ramsay
no more, but as one she had wronged ; yet, at
the thought that he was so near, the old fierce
passion seemed to leap up in her heart, and
swayed her like a reed in the storm.

Poor troubled soul I clasping her hands, she
tormented herself; but knew not what to do.
At last the weakness of her tired, thin frame
brought the despairing feeling that she would
do nothing. The game was over ; let events
take their fated course. Only — only she must
see Jack on the morrow. She would go to the
meet and inde, and taste the happiness once
more of being near him, while he as yet was
unwitting of her treachery ; ay, and that if she
died for it !

With this thought uppermost in her mind,

Kate auuoimced leur determination of riding on
the opening-day ; and, though Violet and RufiiR,
knowing how weak and wasted her frame was
from illness, and lu>w incapable she had become
of undergoing any gi-eat fatigue or exertion,
expostulated with her in energetic tones, their
pleadings were all in vain.

'I shall only go and see you find, and then
come quietly home,' was the rejoinder. ' I may
not be able to do so often again, and you would
not deny me this one little please ?' she added,
meaningly, with a look of sachiessin her glorious
dark eyes. And so, as usual, wilful woman had
her way.

The breakfast at last was over, and most of the
company well primed with • jumping-powder.'
Violet had received her guests with her heart
fluttering Uke a bird each time the door opened
to admit fresh arrivals. She was wondering if
Jack would appear ; and had even thought of
sending Harlequin early down to Littleforde that
morning, to await his real owner's orders. Then
she refrained ; for no message or sign having

come from the white house beyond the park-wall,
and that even the faithful Margaret did not
appear as usual, the girl supposed, with a sinking
heart, that, in his crippled condition, poor
Jack was no doubt unable to hunt. That must
be it ! and he had no mind probably to see them
all enjoying the sport he loved so well, but could
no longer share.

Rufus could have told her very differently,
and that, with all his old pluck, Jack fully meant
to be among them. Mr. Bentley, too, might
easily have said that he had sent over Brenda
for his godson ; indeed, the good old man was
on thorns to see how Ramsay would acquit himself
with one arm. But it so happened that
neither of the men chanced to enlighten Miss
Vyvian. They somehow both imagined that of
course Violet ' did know ;' and were perhaps a
little shy of mentioning Jack that morning,
guessing, as both smiled broadly upon the girl,
that her feelings might be secretly excited,
though she kept a brave front, and tried to be

as good a hostess and as keep au M.F.H. as

ever.

And Violet — feclingfar more shy — never asked

them about Jack.

So, after vainly watching for Ramsay's
appearance, she mounted Harlequin, and the
cavalcade was soon in motion, proceeding at a
good, round trot to Pile's gorse, the covert to
be drawn first. This was situated on the slope
of a hill facing the south, and afforded nice
dry Ijang, being well sheltered from the easterly
winds by a belt of young spruce and larch-trees.
The gorse was in places somewhat thin and old,
but between the patches here and there were
some snug warm corners, ^vith brambles and tussocks
of grass that offered a snug and inviting spot
for a comfort-loving fox to curl himself up in,
and bask in the scant warmth afforded by a
winter sun. From the top of the hill a lovely
view presented itself. The large pastures of
the vale trended away in a gi-and panorama
to the blue hills that fringed the coast in the

distance ; whilst the fences, as represented by
little black lines, looked so eas\^, and so very
different from what they were in reality. A fox
getting away from this place was bound to
afford a run. Not a cover was to be seen for
some three or four miles, the nearest being a
square clump of Scotch firs that loomed out
dark, in strong contrast to the bright surrounding
landscape.

Jack had stationed himself behind a thick
black-thorn fence, down wind, at the low end
of the gorse : and here, unseen himself, he could
watch the spot where his former experience told
hin the fox would most likely break. The
field had all assembled on the brow of the hill,
whilst Tom Harkholler and the pack were busy
trying to find their fox. Hounds had dashed into
the gorse with that eagerness which denotes
a certain find, and were now spreading and trying
every likely-looking spot along the side of
the hill, while Tom's cheery ' Yooi — in there, my
beauties ! Yooi ! try for 'im, good lasses !' rang
out on the pleasant autumn air.

Not much encouragement is needed, however ;
for the pack are keen as mustard. One or two
bounds lash then sides with their sterns as they
feather across an open patch in the gorse, but
they are tried veterans, and the hne is too faint
for them to throw their tongues with certainty.
Suddenly Brenda pricks her ears, and Jack, casting
his eyes forward, sees a little reddish-brown
object pop out of the cover through the fence
at the bottom, pause for a moment as if to seethe
coast is clear, and then, with a defiant whisk
of his white-tagged brush, dash boldly over the
open, with his head set straight across the vale.
At the same moment old Priestess throws her
tongue in covert. Frenzy, Barmaid, Artful,
and Lavender all add their voices in confirming
testimony, and then there is a burst of
hound-music that makes the hillside re-echo
agahi as the pack crash downhill through the
gorse and bracken.

The Marshwood Vale Hunt is too well
drilled for any shouting or hollowing to take
place, and as Jack lifts his hat high in air t:)

proclaim the ' gone away !' nothing except the
remark of, ' There he goes !' is uttered by a few
horsemen at the top of the hill ; and beyond
the ' tweet, tAvcet, tweet I' of Tom's horn, and the
get away forrard, hounds !' of the Avhips, as they
crack their ponderous thongs, no sound breaks
the stillness, except the chorus of the pack now
in full cry. Down the hillside they sweep like
an avalanche, and crash through the fence at
the bottom where they just hover for a moment
till Jack, dropping his reins, cheers them on the
line.

Who is that, Tom V enquired Violet, as she
emerged at the bottom of the covert by the old
huntsman's side, and saw the pack, running hard,
now a good field ahead, with a single horseman
close behind them, and lying a little to their
right. ' He can ride, anyhow,' she added, as the
rider and horse negotiated a remarkably stiff
double in faultless style.

Lor' bless 'ee, miss, ye don't mean to say you
don't know,' replied the old man, as they galloped
along side by side. ' Why, I should a' thought you

could have picked out the captain and Brenda
among a 'hundred,' ho added, with a sly twinkle
in his keen blue eye.

Amid ! so it is,' answered Violet, in as indifferent
a tone as she could assume, though she felt
a hot flush overspreading her face. ' ! how
could I mistake him V she said inwardly to
liersL'lf; and, letting Harlequin out, she drew
ahead.

As soon as they found, Rufus had turned to
his wife, whose quick eye had long ago marked
the loue-armed horseman, and said, in tones of
gentle entreaty,

Now, my darling, you will go home quietly,
won't you V

Yes, yes, of course,' Alas the somewhat
impatient response. ' Don't you stick here; goon.'
And so Rufns obeyed, and went.

The sight of Jack, however, had acted like
a magnet on Kate. Was she going quietly
home when he and Violet might be thrown
together ^ n(), a thousand times no ! Weak and
ill as she felt, she was determined to keep near

Ramsay as long as she could, and directly her
husband's back was turned she set off at a gallop
in the wake of several of the field, who were
making for a line of gates that led to the bottom
of the hill.

In the meantime the pack were running nearly
mute, except when a hound every now and
then threw its tongue ; and, with a breast-high
scent, they were streaming over the broad pastures
in a compact body, carrying a grand head.
Jack, closely followed by Violet (who, thanks
to Harlequin's speed, had rapidly gained on the
now flying pack), with half-a-dozen others, still
maintained the lead ; and so some two miles
were got over, till at length a piece of sticky
fallow brought hounds' noses down.

As Ramsay pulled up, his face, hitherto so
pale, was flushed by the excitement of the
gallop, and he hardly at the moment noticed
Violet as she came up alongside of him, who,
tendering her hand, said, frankly, but in low and
somewhat trembling tones,

How do you do. Captain Ramsay 1 I am so

glad to see you again, and was very sorry to
hear of your accident.'

Thank you,' he replied, simply, grasping her
hand and retaining it for a moment in his, as he
looked her straight in the face with eyes brimming
over with love and devotion. 'Any
accident is worth incurring to get such a
greeting from you, Miss Vyvian. And you cannot,
I am sure, be one thousandth part as glad
to see me as 1 am to see you.'

But this was no time for pretty speeches, for
Tom had held his hounds forrard, and, as they
once more got on grass, they hit the line, and
streamed away with heads up and sterns down.
This momentary check, however, had enabled
that division of the field which Kate O'Brien
had followed to join the leaders ; and, stung to
the quick by the meeting she had Witnessed
between Jack and Violet, she now rode a line
of her own, determined not to be left behind.
Rufus and Violet had, to their astonishment,
only just become aware of her presence,
and stared aghast ; but hounds were going

too fast for them to attempt to stop her now.
On they speed, over rough rush-grown pastures
from which many a snipe rises with a startled
sc-a-a-pe,' twisting away in tortuous flight ;
over a rolling stretch of heather and stunted
gorse ; over sticky ploughed land which further
increases the advantage the pack has already
gained, till they reach the group of dark firs
before alluded to.

This covert consisted of some eight to
ten acres. Silvery birches grew at intervals
amid the more sombre pines, their white
stems standing out in striking yet pleasant
contrast ; patches of gorse, still sprinkled here
and there with their showers of golden blossom
(for 'tis said, and with truth, that the
gorse is never out of bloom) ; bog-myrtle, tall
heather, brown bracken, and rank grass, all
flourished luxuriantly together ; and through this
tangled growth the eager pack went tumbling
and dashing, forcing their way along, intoxicated
by the hot scent, and the (to them)
delicious aroma left behind by the fugitive fox I

A deep, holding, clayey ride enabled the field to
follow them through the wood, though perforce
at diminished speed.

Here at last Violet and Rufiis had an opportunity
of begging Kate to stop ; but in vain.
In the first place, she was inebriated with the
excitement of the gallop ; and secondly, she was
influenced by a feeling of mad jealousy, and
laughed to scorn the entreaties both of her
husband and friend.

! don't bother,' she said, petulantly, in
reply to the former; ' would i/oa stop if asked
you in a run like this V and she pushed past
him, her horse squirting some muddy water in
his face as she did so.

On emerging from the covert, a few tail
hounds were seen straining every muscle to
overtake their flying comrades now just topping
the fence out of the next field.

Yonder they go !' said Jack, pointing with
his whip, and immediately set " Brenda " going,
closely followed by Violet and Kate O'Brien.

Some half-dozen fields were gone over at

racing pace, and then a tell-tale line of willows
denoted the presence of a brook ; not a very formidable
one truly, but still too big to be trifled
with after the pace at which hounds had been
running. Kate knew the place of old, and a
fierce desire arose in her heart to show the way
over the water. As they neared it Jack, followed
by Violet, bore away to the right where the
brook seemed narrower, and the take-off and
landing sounder. Kate imagined they were
making for a ford, and that if she kept straight
on she would gain a decided advantage ; so
shaking up her horse, and giving him a couple
of smart cuts with her whip, she drove him at
the water.

But pace and the reckless way in which
Kate had been riding were beginning to
tell, and her horse, though he faced the leap
bravely, pecked on landing. Kate nearly lost
her seat, but recovered herself instantly only to
find to her chagrin that hounds had turned right
away from her, and were running up the side of
the brook close by where Jack, Violet, Rufus,

and two or three others had jumped it. By
want of judgment she had lost her pride of
place, and she ground her teeth with rage and
vexation at the thought of her foolishness. But
Kate grew still more foolish; anger blinded her,
and, though she felt her horse was getting exhausted,
she never gave that much-enduring
quadruped a thought, but urged him on at the
top of his speed. She again caught up her companions,
who had by now crossed a couple of
fields enclosed with small and easy-flying fences.
Beyond these, a truly formidable obstacle confronted
them — a high double bank with tough
and massive binders newly cut and laid ; a
wade ditch on either side which had been
lately dug and cleaned out, the mud from which
had been piled on the top of the bank between
the binders, with a drop of unknown depth on
the far side ! As the trio approached it almost
abreast. Jack's quick eye detected a spot to the
right where it looked less stiff, and which the
hedger had not ext reached in his task. A
hairy looking place, in very truth, but still
VOL. III. Q

soiiDcl; and at this he turned his horse, calling
to Violet and Kate to follow him.

The latter heeded him not, however, nor
yet the agonized cry of her husband,

Not there, Kate — not there, for heaven's
sake !'

Besides, she saw hounds turning towards
her as they raced across the field beyond. She
would gain a decided advantage by going
straight on, she argued, and they must soon
kill, or lose their fox ! So summoning all
her remaining strength, she drove her now
unwilling and thoroughly beaten horse at the
frowning fence.

The poor animal was too honest to refuse.
He galloped at it in a half-hearted sort , of way,
with drooping head and heaving flanks — did his
best — floundered on to the top of the bank; but
here exhaustion told its tale, his feet were held
by the adhesive, only half-dried, almost liquid
mud. In trying to jump out, his legs caught the
opposing binders, and he fell heavily over into
the next field. Meanwhile Jack, Violet, Rufus,

and one or two others landed safely lower down
only in time to see a dark, inanimate form
beneath the struggling horse, which lay half in
and half out of the ditch.

Good God, she is killed !' was Jack's involuntary
exclamation, as he hastened up, and,
throwing himself out of his saddle, seized Kate's
horse short by the bridle with his one hand in
the endeavour to stop its struggling. * Are you
hurt, Mrs. O'Brien V he asked.

But no answer came from those ashen lips,
only a little thin stream of blood oozed out from
between the clenched teeth ; — a ghastly pallor
overspread Kate's cheeks, and her long lashes
drooped over the closed eyes.

Q2

CHAPTER XIII.

*POOR RUFUS!'

In the meantime, Rufus, Violet, and a few others
hniTiecT to the spot where Kate had fallen.

All the colour died out of poor O'Brien's
generally so ruddy face, as he threw himself
down on his knees beside his wife, and broke
out with a wild cry :

Kate ! Kate ! say you're not hurt. 0, my
darling, speak to me — Kate ! just one word.'

But only silence followed. Violet's usual
self-control now gave way also, and she burst
into a flood of tears. With some difficulty, poor
Kate's apparently lifeless form was extricated

from beneath her fallen horse ; and ass Rufus
lifted her up her head fell back limply over his
arm, and the gi-eat coils of her glossy hair unrolled
in a dark cloud over the sleeve of his redcoat.
Laying" her down very tenderly, Rufus
rushed for some water, and Ramsay forced a
few drops of brandy from his flask between her
lips. Then she opened her eyes for a second,
moved her hand feebly a little towards him, and
while her gaze rested on Jack's features with a
bewildered surprise, as if wondering what had
happened to herself, through which shone a look
of unutterably loving joy, she nnirmured,

Jack — my — poor head,' then again sank into
insensibility.

In the meantime, a gate had been unhinged,
and now Kate's form was gently raised and laid
upon it. The men took their coats off, and
tenderly covered the apparently lifeless burden ;
and thus the sad procession wended its way to
the nearest farm-house.

At the very first moment after the accident,
Violet had implored one of the men near her to

gallop for the doctor. Almost au hour however
elapsed before, with the utmost despatch,
he arrived ; and during those moments, so
terribly slow to those who Awaited around her,
Kate showed little or no signs of animation.

Violet, aided by Farmer Wilford's wife and
daughter, had been using every means they
could all three think of to bring Kate back to
consciousness ; but as yet in vain. Presently,
however, the door softly opened, and Margaret
Beaumont came in, bringing more restoratives,
and assuming at once, to poor Violet's bewildered
and grateful joy, the command of the
situation, with the air of — what she really was
a thoroughly experienced nurse. But though
she cheered Rufus in sympathetic fragments of
sentences uttered between her ministrations, and
patted Violet on the shoulder with comforting
affection, her sweet brown eyes met those of
the girl, when O'Brien had his back turned, with
a sorrowful look, and she shook her head.

Jack Ramsay had brought Margaret. He had

thought at once of borrowing Farmer \Vilforcrs
spring-cart. Violet would need her assistance so
greatly, he knew ; his mind turning instinctively
to care for her, to avoid too heavy a responsibility
being laid on those young shoulders.

It was Rufus who first detected a faint quiver
of the eyelids in the deadly-pale face at which
he gazed, with all the old, passionate love rekindled
in his heart ; later slights and coldness
forgotten ; only the memories of his young bride,
his beautiful girl-wife, surging up in his honest,
tender mind.

He stepped backward and gripped Violet's
arm hard to make her see, too, in his intense
excitement. Then, slackening this grasp as
suddenly, he dropped down on one knee
by the pillow to watch closer, exclaiming rapturously,


Look I look ! she is better — she is coming
to ! Ah, she knows me now ; she has opened
her eyes . 0, Kate, my heart's darling, my
own Kitty, you'll be yourself soon — you will,

you will !' Rufus was babbling in his wild joy,
almost laughing outright as he watched Kate,
who had now opened her eyes and was slowly
and faintly, nevertheless evidently regaining her
senses. The others, too, perhaps carried away by
the enthusiasm of O'Brien's faith, felt a sudden
pleasing of gladness. Hopes revived, and
even the farmer's wife, who had never seen
Kate before, wiped her eyes with a feeling of
thankfulness in her heart. It seems such a
great and happy thing to save a fellow-creature,
for awhile, from passing from this earth that we
know into the unknown mystery beyond.

Meanwhile, the doctor's gig drove rapidly into
the farmyard, where half of the Hunt horses were
being led about on the littered straw, or stood
tied up in cow-sheds. A group of their pink-coated
riders, all Marsh wood Vale men, with
Jack Ramsay amongst them, waited outside the
farm door, exchanging subdued whispers and
telling each other what each man had seen of
poor Mrs. O'Brien's riding from the start, and

comparing their various versions of ' how it all
happened.'

A flock of pigeons strutting on the ground flew
upwards with a sudden whirr, disturbed by the
wheels of the gig. A couple of half-bred sheep-dogs
sprang out of their barrels, and strained
on their chains barking savagely. Some pigs
grunted undisturbed in the farm-litter, and hens
scratched and pecked. The scene struck Jack
Ramsay by the contrast between these common
incidents of daily life that were going on around
as usual, and thoughts of the motionless figure
within doors whose fluttering breath was perhaps
soon to pass away in feeble gasps.

flow strange it is, after all I' he thought to
himself. ' Here one hour alive and well — gone
the next out of sight, and hearing, and earthly
knowledge.'

The doctor, with a quick, decided step, entered
the room where Kate lay, and all eyes turned
towards him in deepest anxiety; as if his verdict
of life or death could be altered by that mute,

imploring appeal. The suspense did not last
long. A few, brief moments of examination,
during which Kate's eyelids languidly drooped
once more.

'Ah ! she's tired now, but she's better, doctor.
You see for yourself she's better,' broke in Rufus,
with an irrepressible outburst of longing to hear
his hopes confirmed. ' She'll come all right
soon — won't she now V His blue eyes had an
expression of such piteous entreaty that Violet
felt her own eyes fill with tears at the sight.

The doctor kindly laid his hand on O'Brien's
shoulder, and drew him away from the bedside
to the end of the room.

My dear fellow, you must try to bear up ;
don't deceive yourself with false hopes. It is
the will of God '

You mean — 0, no ! for the love of heaven
don't say that,' uttered Rufus, wildly, but almost
voicelessly, his eyes staring fixedly at the
other's face.

She is terribly injured ; you could not irish
her to live on in such a state, her sufferings would

be frightful. As it is, be thankful she feels no
pain . It will not last very long now.'

At these most kindly-spoken but terrible words,
poor Rufus quite broke down in such anguish of
grief that it was entirely uncontrollable. Only
the urgent whispers of those around him, that
Kate would be disturbed, seemed to have some
influence in arresting the strong flood of his
sorrow. Then Margaret Beaumont touched his
arm gently ; and, while he kept his head buried
hopelessly in his hands, she led the strong man
out of the room, weeping like a little child.

Kate once more faintly opened her eyes. Her
lips moved, and, as Violet bent down to catch
the words, she asked, in a voice more clear than
the listener would have thought possible,

Was that Rufus ? . . . I heard some — one
sobbing, I thought. Tell me — Violet — is it allover
with me ? Do not be afraid.'

Dear, dearest Kate. You are much worse
than we thought. You — you arc called away
before us, Kate. But we must soon follow you,,
you know ; sooner or later,' faltered Violet.

('If only Margaret could have told her! she
would have said it so differently: so much
better,' thought the girl, with a keen pang of
self-distrustful regret.) But she was comforted
a little when, after a momentary silence and
closing of the eyes, while a spasm passed over
those pale features, Kate whispered,

I knew it must be so . I am glad you
are near. — We were always like — sisters. But,
Violet, I am not ready to die ! . . . There is
a burden upon me — a sin '

There is forgiveness for all sins, dear Kate,
if you only ask it and believe : if you do
repent.'

I repented — bitterly. But I never confessed
. . . Can you forgive me, Violet 'I If so,
Good will.'

I will forgive you, I promise, fully and freely ;
whatever it may be,' answered Violet, trembling
as she knelt by Kate's bedside. At that moment
she seemed to go back to the old school-days,
when they had been such loving friends, to
the old jokes — Kate's pranks and peccadilloes,

for many of which Violet had shared censure,
unjustly yet willingly.

Kate's black eyes opened large, with a solemn
earnest appeal, as she gasped,

Can you forgive when I tell you it concerns —
Jack Ramsay .^ . . . I did you a great wrong —
and him, still more ! You remember that night
. . when I came to your room . . . when I told
you he '

Yes, yes ; I know uttered Violet, breathlessly,
almost beyond herself, as Kate's voice
broke and died away. ' I remember it all.'

I told you a lie,' breathed back Kate,,
straight. ' 1 loved him — I loved him ! It was
an awful temptation when you asked me. But
he . . . he never loved me I I know it now. He
paid me attention, that was all. Then I grew
wild — mad ! My God ! I did love him !'

Don't think of it now, dear Kate. It will
all be forgotten, wiped out. Don't think of it,
more,' repeated Violet, softly kissing her friend's
cheek, although trembling violently'. Oh, how
could Kate have so deceived her I

I 7nust I — There was his letter, too. I took
it and hid it for months. Then I dropped it
behind the marble table — where it was found,'
pursued Kate, with fluttering breath, in gasps
that came so feebly they might soon end
altogether, as Violet remembered with pity and
alarm. ' Listen, Violet. Ask Jack Ramsay to
forgive . . . me . . . for your sake. Ask him to
see me. — Quick ! — I midst see him before I
die.'

The dying woman's face wore such a look of
longing, piteous entreaty, Violet felt as if
she could not assure and soothe her rapidly
enough.

I will tell him. He will be sure to come —
he will be sure to come,' she exclaimed, softly ;
and, signing to Margaret, Who at that moment
came back, to take her place, she gHded out to
find Ramsay. What a strange explanation and
reconciliation theirs was !

In the farm-house passage, outside the room
in which Kate was dying — a few breathless
words whispered on Violet's part, with a beseeching

gaze, imploring the man's forgiveness
for the poor woman within. A start from
Kamsay, and a look of great, indignant, almost
horrified surprise.

What ! She told yon I made love to her,
and you believed it?'

'How could I help it? She said you had
changed, and given her up ; but that could not
ludo what had gone before. It was a terrible,
awful falsehood — Oh, if you knew what I
suffered that night, before I wrote to you never
to see me again I'

But you believe me now, Violet, when I
tell you my conscience is clear on that
score.'

'I do I I do!— I believe you, now, and for
always.'

A long grasp of each other's hands, a long
look in each other's eyes

Then Violet murmured :

Come and say you forgive her ; come
quickly.'

I will forgive her, dear. I nnist, now she

is dying; and the more so that you ask
me.'

Together they entered the room, where lay
the unhappy woman who had almost wrought
ruin to both their Ives ; and both felt, even in
that solemn moment, a thrill of ineffable joy at
the knowledge that they were now one in
heart and mind, from thenceforth and for
always.

It was a strange scene. Kate O'Brien lying
so helpless and still, her black hair loosely
falling about her, the pink hunting-bodice, that
had been cut open and slashed by the doctor,
in striking contrast with the white coverings
of the bed on which they had laid her. Violet,
too, in her habit, with a similarly, gay, little
scarlet-coat, Alas noah kneeling by the bedside
with her hands clasped, and a rapt expression
on her pale face.

As they entered, both had seen Kate's
features take a shrinking, scared look ; without
glancing up she closed her eyes, and remained
speechless. She would have hidden her face

from meeting Jack Ramsay's reproachful gaze,
but that she had no power left to stu her
head.

Then Jack's voice was heard through the
stillness, that was otherwise only broken by
the half-sobbing breathing of the women.
He spoke kindly, with a solemn yet tender
pity in his deep tones, that sounded like the
accents of an angelic being in the fast-closing
ears that so faintly yet so eagerly listened.

'I have come, as you wished, Mrs. O'Brien,
to say that we are friends again. Whatever
you grieve at having done to me, I forgive
fully and freely ; as I hope to be myself forgiven
by my Maker my own far greater
sins . . . Will you not speak to me V

Kate's face quivered ; she raised slowly her
heavy eyelids and gazed up in Ramsay's face
with a long, strange look that none of those
who saw it ever forgot.

God bless you,' she said, in a broken voice.
Will you kiss me once . It is not wrong
Violet — is it ? — because — I am dying.'

VOL. III. R

Jack met the honest eyes of the girl he
loved turned upon him with such a trustful,
pitying expression that he read her mind at
once. Then he stooped gravely, and kissed
Kate on the forehead.

A moment or so later, Violet made a sign of
alarm. She noticed — what was it? — a grey
shade, a change she could not define, pass over
Kate's face. Even before she did so, the
doctor's voice, for he had been standing in the
background, whispered to Margaret Beaumont to
call O'Brien quickly. In a few seconds Eufus
was there, his grief arrested by the suddenness (to
him) of this summons. He threw himself down
on his knees beside his wife, the others all
making room for him ; he put his arm about her,
knowing that he clasped for the last time her
living form.

Kate ! one last word to me,' he implored,
bending down his ear anxiously to catch any
faint sounds from those dear lips.

Poor— Rufus !'

That was all ; — but to the man, the husband,

who caught the feebly-uttered words, it was
everything. Then, as they all listened, the
breathing surely stopped. No, it went on
again.

She is gone !' said the doctor, presently ; and
his voice, though quiet, startled them, in the
hush that had fallen in the room.

r2

CHAPTER XIV.

all's well that ends well.

And so poor Kate was dead ; her troubled spirit
had passed away from earth.

A few days later they laid her to rest in a
quiet corner of the churchyard, not very far
from Cyril Yyvian's grave. The grass was
already green last summer about the plain slab
and cross that marked his resting-place; the
flowers planted by Violet's own hands were
thriving, and Avould bloom again next year.
And the thought rose in the latter's mind that
so, likewise, when the sods upon Kate O'Brien's
earthly bed should spring, and daisies blow

about it, all thought of what trouble lie lead
brought upon herself and those who were her
friends would have died out, and only memory
of Kate's better qualities, her beauty and high
spirits, and fascination of manner revive again
in their minds.

It was by no means so largely-attended a
funeral as that of Cyril Vyvian had been.
Kate, however admired, had made few real
friends in her lifetime. But many, and especially
almost all the members of the Marshwood Vale
Hunt, came out of good feeling for Rufus
O'Brien, and as a mark of respect towards their
young M.F.H., whose small circle of intimate
associates had thus for the second time of late
been so suddenly broken into by death.

When the last flowers had been strewn, and
the last look taken at Kate O'Brien's grave, the
chief mourners went slowly back to Forde
Manor. Meanwhile Mr. Woods, the cheery vicar,
looked after them, and said within himself,

Well, well! a funeral to-day (what a handsome
woman she was, too !), and tln-ee christening

on Sunday; and soon, unless I am a
false prophet — a wedding. For Captain Ramsay
was not standing by Miss Vyvian's side
all through to-day's service by chance. Poor,
dear girl ! how often I have thought of that
evening when I surprised them together in the
wood . . . Well, no doubt they have had their
troubles since then ; but now let's hope all will
come right. What a fine fellow he is I — he will
make a right good landlord.'

On returning home, Violet led the way to the
drawing-room. As a rule, they never sat in
this room in the afternoon ; but with womanly
thoughtfulness she had arranged it should be so
to-day, lest the sight of Kate's empty favourite
chair in the hall, where they usually gathered,
might overcome poor Rufus.

A cheerful fire blazed in the old-fashioned
drawing-room with its white panelled walls;
and through the windows there was to be seen
a golden western glow behind the great
cedars.

Rufus O'Brien came in with a blank, dispirited

expression, went slowly up to the fireplace,
and stood warming himself mechanically
without a word. Presently he turned round, and
said, with a look of surprise,

Why are we here V As Violet did not
immediately answer him, a gleam of comprehension
shot over his features, lighting them up
with a glow of friendly gratitude in spite of his
haggard and grief-stricken appearance. ' Ah ! I
understand. It is like ye, dear soul, kindest of
friends ! Now, look ye here, Violet, 1 have
something to say to you and to Jack Ramsay,
too.' Whereupon O'Brien turned his face upon
both these two who stood near him, and went
on with emotion, and in a deeply earnest tone,
1 want to say that no two people could feel
more for me, I believe, nor be more sorry for
her that's gone. And so I ask, as a favour of
you both, not to delay your wedding-day on her
account. I ask it for her sake ; it's what she
would never have wished herself, for, as ye all
know, she was the most generous soul alive — my
poor girl I Come now — let it be soon, Violet . . .

Kamsay, it's maybe a queer time to congratulate
you, and say — what's only the truth from my
soul — that I'm glad. But good wishes need
never come amiss. And though neither of you,
I believe, have ever told me all was settled
between you — well, you'll excuse me for old
friendship's sake.'

Violet smiled upon her good friend with tears
in her eyes. Ramsay silently held out his hand ;
and the two men exchanged a warm grasp of
fellow-feeling.

Then a little murmur of other voices became
half-audible in the room. Margaret Beaumont
had come back with the others from the funeral,
and she now thought it best to slip away unobserved.
But Dolly, who rambling with her
nurse in the park had met them, and begged to
come in with mother,' was now hanging back
and whimpering objections. Suddenly her
murmur, that was hitherto indistinct to the
others, swelled louder into a plaintive lament.

But 1 did want to say good-bye to
Rufus.'

'And so she shall,' exclaimed O'Brien, as he
caught lip the little girl iu his arms, and hugged
her ; Avliile Dolly, who had not seen her favourite
big playfellow for a week, and who had been
repeatedly told he was in great sorrow, threw
her chubby arms round his neck and covered
his face with kisses. (Perhaps, in her heart,
Dolly was not very sony ' that Mrs. O'Brien
was gone to heaven,' as nurse had solemnly
imparted to her, and would never come back.
But she was awed, and perceived that others
were grieved, so kept her opinion to herself and
tried to be sympathetic.)

Poor little soul, she's tired, I'm sure,' said
Rufus, loth to set down the child. ' I'll carry
her home — if I may.'

And Margaret, feeling that he found more
comfort in the caresses of the little one, who
loved and clung to him, than in any attempted
consolation friends could utter, gently assented.
So the three went outside on to the terrace, and
through the woods to Littleforde.

Left alone in the big drawing-room, Jack

looked at Violet. Her eyes dropped a little, yet,
by mute consent, they drew nearer to each
other. And Ramsay's right arm — his poor solitary
one, as Violet thought, with a rush of pity far
more intense than he felt for himself — stole round
the girl's slim waist.

Darling,' he said, in the old loving tones she
had missed so sorely. ' I think Rufus is right.
Shall it be as he says V

I wish Avhat you wish replied Violet, low ;
but raising her eyes a moment to his with a
look of utter trust and such a peaceful, holy-minded
joy on her face, as seemed to Ramsay
like a light from heaven.

Awhile they stood there silent, but side by
side, and held in each other's arms • and thus
they watched the light fade and the twilight
deepen. A solemn hush was upon them both,
for the shadow of that great mystery of life, its
Whither, could not yet pass from their minds.
But yet they were brave and hopeful for the
future, bring what it might, and perhaps their

happiness was all the truer iu that it was so
still.

The Jack presently roused and drew the
girl he loved back into the cheerful radius of
the fire-gloAv.

'Dear,' he said. 'Do you remember you
were standing just here the first night 1 came
to dine at Forde Manor V

A very quiet wedding may be just as happy
an omen as one where there is more bustle and
excitement, when a solemn service seems mingled
with champagne and laughter, orange-blossoms,
tears, and smiles. At least, so Jack
Ramsay and Violet thought, when in the early
spring-time they were married ; and few, very
few were present to see them made man and wife.
But as they drove away later through the lanes,
where primroses were peeping and the bleating
of lambs came from behind the budding hedges,
what groups and groups of smiling faces by
cottage-doors gave them respectful good-wishes.

and how many benches of sweet violets were
flung into the carriage by the children's
hands.

I always knew it would be so. At least, I
mean one could see they were made for each
other,' exclaimed Mrs. Blatherwick, enthusiastically,
who to her great joy had been one of the
intimate few invited to the wedding.

*1 thought the same ' chimed in Major

Ball, who had come back from Monte Carlo
-expressly, as he profusely explained, because he
took such interest in dear old Jack and that
most charming of girls — Miss Vyvian. In fact,
as Billy Blatherwick gruffly muttered in an
undertone, which nobody heeded,

He thinks they couldn't get spliced without
him.'

Well, I think we three had as good an inkling
as anybody else of what seemed at one
time to be a rather hopeless love-affair,' c confidentially
remarked old Squire Bentley, with a beaming
smile, as he turned to Rufus O'Brien and

Mrs. Beaumont, who were standing with him a
little apart.

Faith, it was queer how it all came right,'
said good Rufus, simply. * God bless them
both !'

Amen gently said Margaret Beaumont.

And then Dolly, in all the splendour of her
bridesmaid's frock, was discovered stuffing her
pocket with wedding-cake, ' for her doll to
dream on,' and had to be conveyed home, escorted
by her chief vassal O'Brien, before the latter
betook himself to the rooms in the wing still
standing of the Manor-house, where he was now
installed as the new agent of the Forde estate,
to general satisfaction, the old agent having
lately retired on a pension.

it is quite right they should have a quiet-wedding
; but Avait and see what a welcome
we'll give the happy pair when they come home
said the rest of the neighbourhood.

And a splendid welcome it was. For, as
everyone agreed, after her trials resulting from

her father's will and her cousin's death, Violet
Vyvian deserved to be made happy, and Jack
Ramsay was just the right man, they believed,
to make her so.

she END.

London : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE .

HURST & BLACKETT'S

STANDARD LIBRARY.

LONDON:

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET, W.

-i

OF CHEAP EDITIONS OF

POPULAR MODERN WORKS.

ILLUSTRATED bY

Sir J. E. Millais, Sir J. Gilbert, Holman Hunt, Birket Foster,

John Leech, John Tenniel, J. Laslett Pott, etc.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 6s.

I.— SAM SLICK'S NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"The first volume of Messrs Hurst and Blackett's Standard Library of Cheap Edition
forms a very good beginning to what will doubtless be a very successful undertaking
'Nature and Human Nature ' is one of the best of Sam Slick's witty and humorous productions,
and well entitled to the large circulation which it cannot fail to obtain in represent
convenient and cheap shape The volume combines with the great recommendations
of a clear, bold type and good paper, the lesser, but attractive merits of being well
illustrated and elegantly bound." — Morning Foss

IL— JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

"The new and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless meet with great
success. John Halifax, the hero of this most beautiful story, is no ordinary hero. And
this his history is no ordinary book. It is a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one
of nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a homo, and a thoroughly Eugiiah one.
The work abounds in incident, and many of the scenes are full of graphic power and true
pathos. It is a book that few will read without becoming wiser and better." — ScoUnum.

"This story is very interesting. The attachment between John Halifax and hia wife ia
beautifully painted, as are the pictures of their domestic life, and the growing up of their
children; and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and touching." — Alienum.

in.— THE CRESCENT AND THE CROSS.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

"Independent of its value as an original narrative, and its useful and Interesting
Information, this work is remarkable for the colouring power and play of fancy with
which its descriptions are enlivened. Among its greatest and most lasting charnu is its
reverent and serious spirit" — Quarterly Review.

"Mr. Warburton has fulfilled the promise of his title-page. The ' Realities of Eastern
Travel' are described with a vividness which invests them with deep and abiding interest;
while the 'Romantic' adventures which the enterprising tourist met with in hit
course are narrated with a spirit which shows how much he enjoyed these reliefs from
the ennui of every-day ]^q.''— Globe.

IV.— Nathaniel
JULIA KAVANAGH.

"'Nathalie' 1b Miss Eavanagh's best imaginative effort. Its manner Is graolona and
attractive. Its matter is good. A sentiment, a tenderness, are commanded by hex which
are as individual as they are elegant We should not soon come to an end were we to
specify all the delicate touches and attractive pictures which place ' Nathan ' high amon
books of its c\&a&."—Atlienaeum.

v.— A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

BY THE Author OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"These thoughts are good and humane. They are thoughts we would wish women to
think: they are much more to the purpose than the treatises upon the women and da fighters
of England, which were fashionable some years ago, and these thoughts mark gibe
progress of opinion, and indicate a higher tune of character, and ft juster estimate of
woman's position"— /I </i«n«Mm.

•*TLis excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, aud Iv
written in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spirit "—J/i»rnin^ to**

VI.— ADAM Gramme OF MOSSGRAY.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

'Adam Gramme ' is a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its
admirable pictures of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive passages,
as who that has read 'Margaret Maitland ' would not be prepared to expect?
But the story has a 'mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in its
feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of its
Sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Christian
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations ir
th life, with a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly be surpassed." — Momin
Pot

VII.— SAM SLICK'S WISE SAWS AND
MODERN INSTANCES.

"We have not the slightest intention to criticise this book. Its reputation is made, and
will stand as long as that of Scott's or Buller's novels. The remarkable originality of
its purpose, and the happy description it affords of American life and manners, still continue
the subject of universal admiration. To say thus much is to say enough, though we
must just mention that the new edition forms a part of the Publishers' Cheap Standard
Library, which has included some of the very best specimens of light literature that ever
have been vrritten."— Messenger.

VIII.— CARDINAL WISEMAN'S RECOLLECTIONS
OF THE LAST FOUR POPES.

A picturesque book on Rome and its ecclesiastical sovereigns, by an eloquent Roman
Catholic. Cardinal Wiseman has here treated a special subject with so much generality
fend geniality that his recollections will excite no ill-feeling in those who are most conscientiously
opposed to every idea of human infallibility represented lf^ Papal domination"
Athenaeum.

IX.— A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

It

BY THE AUTHOR OP " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

"We are always glad to welcome Mrs. Or^ik. She writes, from her own convictions,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that she wishes to
Bay, but to express it in language effective and vigorous. In ' A Life for a Life ' she ii
fortunate in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect The
reader, having read the book through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion)
to return and read again many pages and passages with greater pleasure
than on a first perusal. The whole book is replete with a graceful, tender delicacy;
and, in addition to its other merits, it is written in good careful English"—
Athenaeum.

' A Life for a Life ' is a book of a high class The characters are depicted with a
masterly hand ; the events are dramatically set forth ; the descriptions of scenery and
sketches of society are admirably penned ; moreover, the work has an object — a clearly
defined moral— most poetically, most beautifully drawn, and through all there is that
strong, reflective mind visible which lays bare the human heart and human mind to the
very core"— Morning Post.

X.— THE OLD COURT SUBURB.

BY LEIGH HUNT.

"A book which has afforded us no slight gratification." — Athenaeum.

From the mixture of description, anecdote, biography, and criticism, this book is very
pleasant reading." — Spectator.

A more agreeable and entertaining book has not been published since Boswell produced
his reminiscences of Johnson." — Observer.

XI.— MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES."

We recommend all who are In search of a fascinating novel to read this work for
themselves. They will And it well worth their while. There are a freshness and originality
about it quite charming, and there is a certain nobleness in the treatment both of
sentiment and incident which is not often found." — Athenaeum.

Xn.— THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE IN A COLONY.

BY SAM SLICK.

A peculiar interest attaches to sketches of colonial life, and readers could not hav a
safer guide than the talented author of this work, who, by a residence of half a century,
has practically grasped the habits, manners, and social conditions of the colonists be describes.
All who wish to form a fair idea of the difficulties and pleasures of life in a new
country, unlike England in some respects, yet like it in many, should read this book."
John Bull.

XIII.— DARIEN; OR, THE MERCHANT Prince.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

This last production of the author of ' The Crescent and the Cross ' hai the lame
elements of a very wide popularity. It will please its thousands"— Gfiote.

"Eliot Warburton's active and productive genius is amply exemplified in the present
book. We have seldom met with any work in which the realities of history and the
poetry of fiction were more happily interwoven"— /^/i«<ra^ News.

XIV.— FAMILY ROMANCE ; OR, DOMESTIC ANNALS
OF THE ARISTOCRACY.

BY SIR BERNARD BURKE, ULSTER KING OF ARMS.

It were impossible to praise too highly this most interesting book, whether we should
have regard to its excellent plan or its not less excellent execution. It ought to be found
on every drawing-room table. Here you have nearly fifty captivating romances with the
pith of all their interest preserved in undiminished poignancy, and any one may be read
in half an hour. It is not the least of their merits that the romances are founded on factor
what, at least, has been handed down for truth by long tradition'— and the romance
of reality far exceeds the romance of fiction"— S(an«{ardL

XV.— THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"We have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Horst and Blackett
Standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this aeries
surpass anything with which we are familiar. 'The Laird of Norlaw' will fully luitaln
the author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from first to last with an energy
of sympathy that never flags" — Sunday Time.

'The Laird of Norlaw' is worthy of the author's reputation. It ii one of the most
exquisite of modem novels"— 06<erp«r.

XVI.— THE ENGLISHWOMAN IN ITALY.

BY MRS. G. Bretton.

"Mrs. Bretton had opportunities which rarely fall to the lot of strangers of becoming
acquainted with the inner life and habits of a part of the Italian peninsula which is the
very centre of the national crisis. We can praise her performance as interesting, unexaf
grated, and full of opportune instruction." — The Time.

"Mrs. Bretons book is timely, life-like, and for every reason to be recommended. It
la impossible to close the book without liking the writer as well as the subject. The work
la engaging, because r6%V'—Aihtnmum,

XVn.-.NOTHING NEW.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"' Nothing New ' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax'
one of the most popular works of the day. There is a force and truthfulness about these
tftlea which mark them as the production of no ordinary mind, and we cordially recommend
them to the perusal of all lovers of Qction.''— Morning Post.

Xvi.— LITE OF JEANNE D'ALBRET, QUEEN OF
NAVARRE.

BY MISS FREER.

"We have read this book with great pleasure, and have no hesitation in recommending
It to general perusal. It reflects the highest credit on the industry and ability of Miss
Freer. Nothing can be more interesting than her story of the life of Jeanne D'Albret,
and the narrative is as trustworthy as it is attractive." — Morning Post.

XIX.— THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS."

If asked to classify this work, we should give it a place between * John Halifax ' and
"The Cantons.' "Standard.
The spirit in which the whole book is written is refined and goo±"—At7unaeunL
This is in every sense a charming novel"— Messenger.

XX.— THE ROMANCE OF THE FORUM; OR, NARRATIVES,
SCENES, AND ANECDOTES FROM COURTS OF JUSTICE.

BY PETER BURKE, SERJEANT AT LAW.

This attractive book will be perused with much interest. It contains a great variety
of singular and highly romantic stories"— /o/in Bull.

A work of singular interest, which can never fail to charm and absorb the reader'!
attention. The present cheap and elegant edition includes the true story of the Woollen
B*wxL."'^Jlliistrated Newt.

XXI.— ADELE.

BY JULIA KAVANAGH.

'« ' Adze ' is the best work we have read by Miss Kavanagh ; It Is a charming story,
full of delicate character-painting. The interest kindled in the first chapter bums brightly
to the close." — Athenaeum.

'• ' Adfele' will fully sustain the reputation of Miss Kavanagh, high as it already ranks."
—John Bull.

' Adze ' is a love-story of very considerable pathos and power. It ii • Tery clever
aortlL"— Daily News.

Xxii— STUDIES FROM LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

These 'Studies ' are truthful and vivid pictures of life, often earnest, always full of right
feeling, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet, genial humour. The volume is remarkable
for thought, sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feeling
for al) things good and beautiful" — Morning Post.

These ' Studies from Life ' are remarkable for graphic power and observation. Tha
book will not diminish the reputation of the accomplished &\iiiiOT"— Saturday Rtvitw.

Xxii.— GRANDMOTHER'S MONEY.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

"We commend 'Grandmother's Money' to readers in search of a good novel. Tne
characters are true to hmnan nature, and the story is inteTeating."—AtfieTuxum.

XXIV.— A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS.

BY JOHN Corny Jefferson.

• \ book to be read and re-read; fit for the study as well as the drawing-room table and
the circulating library." — Lancet.

This is a pleasant book for the fireside season, and for the seaside season. Mr. Jeffrey
has, out of hundreds of volumes, collected thousands of good things, adding thereto
much that appears in print for the first time, and which, of course, gives increased valu*
u) this very readable hoo\L"—Athenceum.

XXV.— NO CHURCH.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

■' We advise all who have the opportunity to read this book. It ii well worth the
t' ad.y. "athenaeum.
A work of great originality, merit, and ■po-wer."— Standard.

XXVI.— MISTRESS AND MAID.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

•'A good wholesome book, gracefully written, and as pleasant to read as it is instructive."
— Athenaeum.

•' A charming tale, charmingly told." — Standard,

All lovers of a good novel will hail with delight another of Mra Oraik'a charming
stories. "—/o/»n Bull.

XXVII.— LOST AND SAVED.

BY THE HON. MRS. NORTON.

' Lost and Saved ' will be read with eager interest by those who love a touching story.
(t Ib a vigorous novel." — Times.

'This story is animated, full of exciting situations and stirring incidents. The clara
here are delineated with great power. Above and beyond these elements of a good novel,
there 18 that indefinable charm with which true genius invests all it touches"— ZJatiy Nae.

XXVIII.— LES Miserable.

BY VICTOR HUGO.
Authorised Copyright English Translation.

"The merits of 'Les Miserable ' do not merely consist in the conception of it as a
whole ; it abounds with details of unequalled beauty. M. Victor Hugo has stamped upon
ovary page the hall-mark of genius"— Quarterly Review.

XXIX.— BARBARA'S HISTORY.

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"It is not often that we light upon a novel of so much merit and Interest as
• Barbara's History.' It is a work conspicuous for taste and literary culture. It is a very
graceful and charming book, with a well-managed story, clearly-cut characters, and
sentiments expressed with an exquisite elocution. The dialogues especially sparkle with
repartee. It is a book which the world will like. This is high praise of a work of art
»*id 10 we intend iV"—The Time.

XXX. LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"A good book on a most interesting theme"— Times.

A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. ' Irving's Life ' ought to hare » nich*
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolation"— (Saturnian Review.

XXXI.— ST. Slave's.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JANITA's CROSS."

"This novel is the work of one who possesses a great talent for writing, as well ai
experience and knowledge of the world. The whole book is worth reading." — Atfierueum.

"St Slave's ' belongs to a lofty order of fiction. It is a good novel, but it is something
m ore. It is written with unflagging ability, and it is as even as it is clever. The author
has determined to do nothing short of the best, and has succeeded." — Morning Pott.

Xxxi— SAM SLICK'S TRAITS OF AMERICAN HUMOUR.

Dip where you will into this lottery of fun, you are sure to draw out a prize. These
Traits ' exhibit most successfully the broad national features of American humour"— /•<»<.

Xxxii— CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE,

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A more charming story has rarely been written. It is a choice gift to be able thus to
render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths with such a searching sagacity, and
to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the writer's own." — Time.

XXXIV.— ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

BY GEORGE MAO DONALD, LL.D.

No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervade
the work from the first page to the last" — Athenaeum.

A novel of uncommon merit Sir Walter Scott said he would advise no man to try
to read ' Clarissa Harlowe ' out loud in company if he wished to keep his character f oi
manly superiority to tears. We fancy a good many hardened old novel-readers will f«««)
a rising in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie"— Par Mall OouetU

XXXV.— AGNES,

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

' Agnes ' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former works"— iKAwuwim.

"Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works tber«
are always to be found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement 'Agnes ii
a story whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers"— hominy Point.

Xxxvi— A NOBLE LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF '* JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

•'Few men and no women will read 'A Noble Life' without feeling themselve. the
better for the efforts"— Spectator.

A beautifully written and touching tale. It is a noble book"— ifomtnflf Pest.

' A Noble Life ' is remarkable for the high tjrpes of character it presents, and the
skill with which they are made to work out a story of powerful and pathetic interest"
daily News.

XXXVII.— NEW AMERICA.

BY W. HEPWORTH DIXON.

BY W. HEPWUKTH DiAUJN.

A very interesting book. Mr. Dixon has written thoughtfully and yfelV— Time.
"We recommend everyone who feels any interest in human nature to read Mr.
dixon's very interesting book"— <Sa<urctoi/ Review.

Xxxvii.— ROBERT FALCONER.

BY GEORGE MAG DONALD, LL.D.

"robert Falconer' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest It is a book to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feelings." — Athenaeum.

XXXIX.— THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'The Woman's Kingdom' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
and noblest kind of domestic stories." — Athenaeum.

' The Woman's Kingdom ' is remarkable for its romantic interest. The characters ars
masterpieces. Edna is worthy of the hand that drew John Halifax." — Morning Pott.

XL.— ANNALS OF AN EVENTFUL LIFE.

BY GEORGE Webb DASENT, D.C.L.

A racy, well-written, and original novel The interest never flags. The whole work
sparkles with wit and humour." — Quarterly Review.

XLL— DAVID ELGINBROD.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

"A novel which is the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of
readers"— rime*.

XLn.— A BRAVE LADY.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"We earnestly recommend this novel It is a special and worthy specimen of ths
author's remarkable powers. The reader's attention never for a moment flags"— .Pm.

•''A Brave Lady" thoroughly rivets the unmingled sympathy of the reader, find her
history deserves to stand foremost among the author's works"— Z)atfy Telegraph.

Xlii.— HANNAH.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book Is sure of ft semicircle
of reader The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty." — Standard

"A powerful novel of social and domestic life. One of the most successful efforts of •
successful novelist"— Z?ai/y Netct.

Xlii.— SAM SLICK'S AMERICANS AT HOME.

This is one of the most amusing books that we ever read." — Standard.
'The Americans at Home' will not be less popular than tiny of Judge Halllbarton •
previous works." — Morning Post.

XL v.— THE UNKIND WORD.

These stories are gems of narrative. Indeed, some of them, In their touching p^xet
ind simplicity, seem to us to possess a charm even beyond the authoress's most popular
lovely Of none of them can this be said more emphatically than of that which opened the
series. ' The Unkind Word.' It is wonderful to see the imaginative power displayed in
:he few delicate touches by which this successful love-story is sketched ovLi."—Thi icha

Xlvi— A ROSE IN JUNE.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
"•A Rose in June' ia as pretty aa its title. The story is one of the best and most
teaching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mra Oliphant, and may hold its own
with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' " — Times.

XLVII.— MY LITTLE LADY.

BY E. FRANCES Pointer.
"This story presents a number of vivid and very charming pictures, Indeed, the whole
book is charming. It is interesting in both character and story, and thoroughly good of
ita kind." — Saturday Review.

XLVIII.— Phoebe, JUNIOR.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
"This last 'Chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to ' Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records.
Phoebe, Junior, herself is admirably dra.wa.'''— Academy.

XLIX.— LIFE OF MARIE ANTOINETTE.

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES DUKE YONGE.

••A work of remarkable merit and interest, which will, we doubt not, become the most
popular English history of Marie Antoinette." — Spectator.



L.— SIR GIBBIE.

BY GEORGE MAO DONALD, LL.D.

•* ' Sir Gibbie ' ia a book of genius." — Pall Mall Gazette.
This book has power, pathos, and humour." — Athenaeum.

LI.— YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF *' JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English"— 77w Times

There ia much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant ana vfh.o\QsouiQ." —Athenaeum

Il— LORD Brandenburg.

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"A very readable story. The author has well conceived the purpose of high-clM»i
novel-writing, and succeeded in no small measure in attaining it. There ia plenty of
Tanety, cheerful dialogue, and general ' verve ' in the book." — Athenaeum.

Lm.— IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

In 'It was a Lover and his Lass,' we admire Mrs. Oliphant exceedingly. It would be
worth reading a second time, were it only for the sake of one ancient Scottish spinster,
who ii nearly the counterpart of the admirable Mrs. Margaret Maitland." — Tim.

LIV.— THE REAL LORD BYRON— THE STORY OF
THE POET'S LIFE.

BY JOHN Corny Jefferson.

Mr. Jeaffreaon comes forward with a narrative which must take a very important
place in Byronic literature ; and it may reasonably be anticipated that this book will be
regarded with deep interest by all who are concerned in the works and the fame of this
great English poet"— 77j< Times.

Tom HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

Each in One Volume, Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, price 5a.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

This is a very good and a very interesting work. It is designed to trace the career
from boyhood to age of a perfect man — a Christian gentleman, and it abounds in incident
both well and highly wrought. Throughout it is conceived in a high spirit, and written
with great ability. This cheap and handsome new edition is worthy to pass freely from
hand to hand as a gift-book in many households." — Examiner.

The story is very interesting The attachment between John Halifax and bis wife i*
beautifully painted, as are the pictures of their domestic life, and the growing up of their
children, and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and iovichmg"— Athenaeum.

"The new and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless meet with great
Success. John Halifax, the hero of this most beautiful story, is no ordinary hero, and this
his history is no ordinary book. It is a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one of
nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a home, and a thoroughly English one.
The work abounds in incident, and is full of graphic power and true pathos. It is a book
that few will read without becoming wiser and better"— Scotsman.

A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

"A book of sound counsel. It is one of the most sensible works of its kind, well written,
true-hearted, and altogether practical. Whoever wishes to give advice to a young Iftdy
may thank the author for means of doing so." — Examiner.

"These thoughts are worthy o-f the earnest and enlightened mind, the all-embracing
charity, and the well-earned reputation of the author of ' John Halifax.' " — Standard.

This excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, and !■
written in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spirit." — Point.

A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

•• We are always glad to welcome this author. She writes from her own conviction,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that she wishes to say, bat
to express it in language effective and vigorous. In ' A Life for a Life ' she is fortunate
in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect. The reader, having read
the book through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion) to return and read
again many pages and passages with greater pleasure than on a first perusal. The whole
book is replete with a graceful, tender delicacy ; and, in addition to its other merits, it ia
written in good careful English"— .4f7ie»o6M»».

NOTHING NEW.

'Nothing New' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax '
one of the most popular works of the day"— Pos.

The reader will find these narratives calculated to remind him of that truth and
energy of human portraiture, that spell over human affections and emotions, which have
stamped this author as one of the first novelists of our day." — John Bull.

THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

*" The Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
and noblest kind of domestic stories. The novelist's lesson is given with admirable force
and sweetness." — Athenaeum

' The Woman's Kingdom ' Is remarkable for its romantic interest. The characters
are masterpieces. Edna is worthy of the hand that drew John Halifax"— Pori,

STUDIES FROM LIFE.

"These studies are truthful and vivid pictures of life, often earnest, always full of riirht
feeling, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet genial humour. The volume ia remarkable
for thought, sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feeing
Cor all things good and beauti/j'ii."- Po*.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

(continued.)

CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

•* A more charming story, to our taste, has rarely been written. Within the company
of a single volume the writer has hit off a circle of varied characters, all true to nature —
Home true to the highest nature — and she has entangled them in a story which keeps us
in suspense till the knot is happily and gracefully resolved ; while, at the same time, a
pathetic interest is sustained by an art of which it would be difficult to analyse the secret.
It iB a choice gift to be able thus to render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths
with such a searching sagacity, and to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the
writer's own. Even if tried by the standard of the Archbishop of York, we should expect
that even he would pronounce 'Christian's Mistake' a novel without a fault-T/j* Times.

This is a story good to have from the circulating library, but better to have from one's
bookseller, for it deserves a place in that little collection of clever and wholesome stories
which forma one of the comforts of a well-appointed home." — Examiner.

MISTRESS AND MAID.

"A good, wholesome book, as pleasant to read as it is instructive." — Athenaeum.
This book is written with the same true-hearted earnestness as ' John Halifax.' The
pint of the whole work is excellent." — Examiner.
"A charming tale charmingly told." — Standard.

A NOBLE LIFE.

"This is one of those pleasant tales in which the author of 'John Halifax ' speaks out
of a generous heart the purest truths of life.' — Examiner.

Few men, and no women, will read ' A Noble Life ' without finding themselves the
better." — Spectator.

A Story of powerful and pathetic interest"— Z)aiZy News.

A BRAVE LADY.

"A very good novel, showing a tender sympathy with human nature, and permeated
by a pure and noble spirit" — Examiner.

"A most charming BioTj."— Standard.

"We earnestly recommend this novel. It is a special and worthy specimen of the
author's remarkable powers. The reader's attention never for a moment flags." — Post.

HANNAH.

A powerful novel of social and domestic life. One of the most successful efforts of a
successful novelist" — Daily News.

A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a wide
circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty"— .Siancfard

THE UNKIND WORD.

•• The author of ' John Halifax ' has written many fascinating stories, but we can call to
mind nothing from her pen that has a more enduring charm than the graceful sketches in
this work. Such a character as Jessie stands out from a crowd of heroines as the type of
ftU that is truly noble, pure, and ^from2,n\J.''— United Service Magazine.

YOUNG MES. Jardine.

"young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English"— 7%« Times

"There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome"— ^<^fn«um.

A book that all should read. Whist it is quite the equal of any of its predecessors

in elevation of thought and style, it is perhaps their superior in interest of plot and

dramatic intensity. The characters are admirably delineated, and the dialogue is natural

LONDON : HURST AND BLACKETT, Limited

Oliphant.

Each in One Volume, Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, Price 5s.

ADAM Gramme OF MOSSGRAY.

« Adam Gramme ' is a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by Ita
admirable pictures of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive p**-
Sages, as who that has read ' Margaret Mainland ' would not be prepared to exp«»ci J
But the story has a 'mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in it
feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of ita
sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Ghriftiiaa
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations in
the life, with a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly ha surpassed"— J^omtn^
Pott.

THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

"We have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Hurst and Blackett
Standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this series
surpass anything with which we are familiar. ' The Laird of Norlaw ' will fully suatiiin
the author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from first to last with an energy
of sympathy that never flags" — Sunday Times.

'the Laird of Norlaw' is worthy of the author's reputation. It is one of the most
exquisite of modem novels"— Observer.

IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS.

"In 'It was a Lover and his Lass,' we admire Mrs. Oliphant exceedingly. Her story is
a very pretty one. It would be worth reading a second time, were it only for the ease of
one ancient Scottish spinster, who is nearly the counterpart of the admirable Mrs. Margaret
Maitland"— Tyme.

AGNES.

'Agnes' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former works"— ilfAerueum.

"Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works there are
always to be found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement. ' Agnes ' la a story
whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all re&deva."— Morning Pott.

A ROSE IN JUNE.

' A Rose in June ' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its own
with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford,' " — Time,

Phoebe, JUNIOR.

"This last 'Chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to ' Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records.
Phoebe, Junior, herself is admirably drawn"— academy.

LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

A good book on a most interesting theme." — Times.

A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. 'Irving's Life' ought to have a nice
In every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolations"— Saturday Review.

LONDON : Hurst AND Blackett, LIMITED.

GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

Each in One Volume, Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, Price 5s

ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

"No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that penradei
the work from the first page to the last." — Athenaeum.

A novel of uncommon merit Sir "Walter Scott said he would advise no man to try
to read ' Clarissa Harlowe ' out loud in company if he wished to keep his character for
manly superiority to tears. We fancy a good many hardened old novel-readers will feel
a rising in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie"— Pall Mall Oatettt.

"The whole story is one of surpassing excellence and beauty." — Daily Newt.

This book is full of good thought and good writing. Dr. Mac Donald looks in his store*
more to the souls of men and women than to their social outside. He reads life utd
Nature like a true-pot'— Examiner.

ROBERT FALCONER.

'" Robert Falconer ' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest buena
Interest It is a work to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feelings." — Athenaeum.

"This story abounds in exquisite specimens of the word-painting in which Dr. Mao
Donald excels, charming transcripts of Nature, full of light, air, and colour"— iSa^wrday
Review.

■' This noble story displays to the best advantage all the powers of Dr. Mac Donald
genius." — illustrated London News.

"• Robert Falconer ' is the noblest work of Action that Dr. Mac Donald has yet produced."
— British Quarterly Review.

The dialogues iu ' Robert Falconer ' are so finely blended with humour and pathos &i
to make them in themselves an intellectual treat to which the reader returns again and
a.ga.uL"— Spectator.

DAVID ELGINBROD.

A novel which la the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest clans of
readers"— 2^m€^.

There are many beautiful passages and descriptions in this book. The characters are
extremely well drawn." — Athenaeum.

A clever novel The incidents are exciting, and the interest is maintained to the
close. It may be doubted if Sir Walter Scott himself ever painted a Scotch fireside with
more truth than Dr. Mac Donald"— i^o/vu'ny Post.

David Elginbrod is the finest character we have met in fiction for many a day. The
descriptions of natural scenery are vivid, truthful, and artistic; the general reflections are
those of a refined, thoughtful, and poetical philosopher, and the whole morse atmosphere
of the book is lofty, pure, and invigorating."- Gode.

I

SIR Gibbet

Sir Gibbie ' is a book of genius"— Pa Mall Gazette.

"This book has power, pathos, and humour. There ia not a character which is not
lifelike. There are many powerful scenes, and the portraits will stay long In our
memory." — At?ienceuin.

' Sir Gibbie ' is unquestionably a book of genius. It abounds in humour, pathos.
Insight into character, and happy touches of description"— Crap/iic

"sir Gibbie' contains some of the most charming writing the author has yet produced.
"Scotsman.

"sir Gibbie' is one of the most touching and beautiful stories that has been written
for many years. It is not a novel to be idly read and laid aside ; it Is a grand work, to oe
kept near at hand, and studied and thought over"— Morning Post

LONDON: HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED.

EACH IN ONE Volume CROWN 8vo, Cs.

DONOVAN:

A MODERN ENGLISHMAN.

This is a very admirable work. The reader is from the first carried away by the
gallant unconventionality of its author. ' Donovan ' is a very excellent novel ; but it ia
something more and better. It should do as much good as the best sermon ever written
or delivered extempore. The story is told with a grand simplicity, an unconscious poetry
of eloquence which stirs the very depths of the heart. One of the main excellencies of
this novel is the delicacy of touch with which the author shows her most delightful characters
to be after all human beings, and not angels before their time"— Standard.

-W^E TATV^O.

A work of deep thought and much power. Serious as it is, it is now and then brightened
by rays of genuine humour. Altogether this story is more and better than a novel."
—Morning Post.

There is artistic realism both in the conception and the delineation of the personages;
the action and interest are unflagging sustained from first to last, and the book is pervaded
by an atmosphere of elevated, earnest thought." — Scotsman.

TN THE GhOI^DEN Days.

"Miss Lyell has given us a vigorous study of such life and character as are really worth
reading about. The central figure of her story is Algerian Sydney; and this figure she
invests with a singular dignity and power. He always appears with effect, but no liberties
are taken with the facts of his life. The plot is adapted with great felicity to them.
His part in it, absolutely consistent as it is with historical truth, gives it reality as well as
dignity. Some of the scenes are remarkably vivid. The escape is an admirable narrative,
which almost makes one hold one's breath as one Te&ds."— Spectator.

KlNIGhHT-EIiRT^KT.

' Knight-errant ' is marked by the author's best qualities as a writer of fiction, and
displays on every page the grace and quiet power of her former works." — Athenaeum.

"The plot, and, indeed, the whole story, is gracefully fresh and very charming; there
is a wide humanity in the book that cannot fail to accomplish its author's purpose"—
Literary World.

This novel is distinctly helpful and inspiring from its high tone, its intense human
feeling, and its elevated morality. It forms an additional proof, if such were needed,
that Miss Lyell has a mandate to write." — Academy.

■V^ON BY TV^ITING-.

The Dean's daughters are perfectly real characters — the learned Cornelia especially;
—the little impulsive French heroine, who endures their cold hospitality and at last wins
their affection, is thoroughly charming ; while throughout the book there runs a golden
thread of pure brotherly and sisterly love, which pleasantly reminds us that the making
and marring of marriage is not, after all, the sum total of real life." — Academy.

LONDON : Hues AND BLACKETT, LIMITED.

Hurst & BLACKETT'S

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

LONDON:
13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET, W.



LODGE'S PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.
FIFTY-EIG Th Edition N FOR 1889.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical View of the Peerage.

Parliamentary EoU of the House of Lords.

English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their
orders of Precedence.

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain
and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.

Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of
Precedence.

Table of Precedency among Men.

Table of Precedency among Women.

The Queen and the Royal Family.

Peers of the Blood Royal.

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.

Families of such Extinct Peers as have left
Widows or Issue.

Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the
Peers.

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland.

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight, Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It is
a most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book"— rimes.

"Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed. We can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modem works on the subject"— spectator;

A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day"— /'osi.

LONDON :

MESSES. HURST AND BLACOITS

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

THE QUEEN of NAPLES and LORD NELSON.

An Historical Biography. By John Cord Jkaffreson, Author
'The Real Lord Byron,' ' Lady Hamilton and Lord Nelson,' Ac.
2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

TO SIAM AND MALAYA in the Duke of Sutherland's
Yacht ' Sans Pour.' By Mrs. Florence Caddy, Author of
Through the Fields with Linnaeus,' &c. With a Portrait of the
Duke of Sutherland. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 12s.

REMINISCENCES OF J. L. Tools, the Comedian.
Related by Himself and Chronicled by Joseph Hatton.
"With upwards of Eighty Original Illustrations by Alfred Bryan
and W. H. Margetson. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.
The work will, of course, be read by everybody interested in the stage, and

every play-goer will desire to include it among his literary treasures"— (7/o6fc

SCOTTISH MOORS AND INDIAN JUNGLES.

Scenes of Sport in the Less and India. By Captain J. T.

Newall, late Indian Staff Corps. Author of "Eastern Hunters,"

'* Hog-Hunting in the East," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. With twelve

full-page Illustrations. 12s.

"The author's descriptions are animated, and his book will afford genuine

entertainment to those who have any affinity for works of its class"— ZJij/y Nets.

Captain Newall writes as a sportsman should-Sc-o^s Observer.

BANDOBAST AND KHABAR; Reminiscences of

India. By Colonel Cuthbert Larking. "VN'ith twelve Illustrations,

from original Drawings by the Author. 1 vol. small 4to. 10s. 6d.

"The authors accounts of "tiger hunts will be entertaining both to those who

have met and those who desire to meet the king of the Indian fauna in his own

dominions." — Morniiuj Post.

"Any person contemplating a short trip to India will find in this book some
useful hints with regard to outfit, &c."— Field.

REMINISCENCES OF ETON (Kate's TIME).

By the Rev. C. Alle Wilkinson, M.A., Author of "Reminiscences
of the Court and Times of King Ernest of Hanover."
With Portrait of Dr. Kate. 1 vol. crown bvo. Gs.
"Mr. Wilkinson 8 book is thoroughly fresh and entertaining; it is crammed
full of good stories, and will bo a joy to all Etonians."— (7ra/)/jic.

"Mr. Wilkinson has written an exceedingly good book on Eton. It is the work
of a thoroughly enthusiastic Etonian"— 5a<ur(/a(/ neriete.

LADY HAMILTON AND LORD NELSON. An

Historical Biography based on Letters and other Documents in

the possession of Alfred Morrison, Esq., of Fonthill, Wiltshire.

By John Cord Jefferson, Author of " The real Lord Byron,"

<fec. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 2 Is.
Mr. Jefferson may be thanked for the new and favourable light which he baa
been able to throw upon the public and private conduct both of Lady Hamilton
and of Nelson'— 0/o6e.

FOUR MONTHS' CRUISE IN A SAILING

YACHT. By Lady Ernestine Edgcumbe and Lady Mary
Wood. "With Illustrations. 1 vol. crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.

"The whole journey is recounted in such a way as to make the narrative
agreeable reading, and to intending travellers in the same track it contains many
useful hints and suggestions." — Queen.

'casa whole, the book may be commended as a pleasant and thoroughly English
account of a pastime peculiar to the Anglo-saxon race." — Morning Post.

Shinar SKETCHES : With Notes on Indian

Field Sports. By J. Moray Brown, late 79th Cameron Highlanders.
With Eight Illustrations, by J. C. Dolman, Rei. 1 vol.
small 4to. lOs. 6d.

"A glorious book. It is palpably the work of a true sportsman"— Sbrse andSourd.

The Sketches are delightfully written, models of clear, bright, racy narrative,
and containing just those particulars that a sportsman wishes to know.' — Scotsman.

•' The author goes through the round of Indian sport, and writes in such a
pleasant fashion as to make his pages agreeable reading to all for whom the
subject itself has attractions ; the book has the additional advantage of some
spirited illustrations." — The Field.

Mr. Moray Brown records his long experiences among big game in India with
capital spirit and style; there are some thrilling pages on pig-sticking and tiger-shooting"—
Tie World.

THROUGH CYPRUS. By Agnes Smith, Author

of " Glimpses of Greek Life and Scenery," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo.
With illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.
The cheerful and observant authoress has much that is new to tell ns."— Daily
Telegraph.

' Through Cyprus ' may be heartily commended to readers who are fond of
an entertaining and chatty narration of incidents of travel." — Scotsman.

REMINISCENCES OF THE COURT AND

TIMES OF KING ERNEST OF HANOVER. By the Rev, C.

A. Wilkinson, M.A., His Majesty's Resident Domestic Chaplain.

Second and Cheaper Edition. 1 vol. crown 8vo. With portrait of

the King. 6s.

Mr. Wilkinson's descriptions of the Court balls, where even the ladies took

precedence according to military rank, of the characters he met with, and of the

Hanoverian clergy of those days, will be found decidedly interesting." — Spectator.

An interesting book, which abounds in characteristic stories of the old king,

in anecdotes of many celebrities, English and foreign, of the early part of this

century, and, indeed, of all kinds and conditions of men and women with whom

the author was brought in contact by his courtly or pastoral oflace.-Si. James's

Gazette.

"One of the most interesting and amusing books of this season; it abounds in
good and new stories of King Ernest, and also of a perfect host of celebrities, both
English and Germans'— Truth.

CHAPTERS FROM FAMILY CHESTS. By

Edward Walford, M.A., Author of ' The County Families,' &c.
2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
' Chapters from Family Chests ' are a great deal more exciting and absorbing
than one half the professedly sensational novels"— Z>a% Telegraph.

"Mr. Walford's volumes abound in what is known as the romance of real life,
and are extremely interesting reading"— Z>ai72/ News.



NEW ^O^KS— Continued.

RECORDS OF SERVICE AND CAMPAIGNING

IX MANY LANDS. By Surgeon-general Munro, M.D., Cab.,
Author of " Reminiscences of Military Service with the 93rd
Sutherland Highlanders," &c. Dedicated by Permission to
H. R. H. THE PRINCESS LOUISE. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
"The story which Dr. Munro has to tell is one which never flags or ceases to
be instructive as well as inteTestmg.''— Spectator.

"These Records should be in the hands of every soldier, for the sake of the
information which they give and the spirit which informs them"— Globe.
'Full of interesting notes on the army and army life." — Graphic.

THE EGYPTIAN CAMPAIGNS, 1882 to 1885,

AND THE Events which led to them. By Charles Roylk,

Barrister-at-law. 2 vols, demy 8vo. With Maps and Plans. sos.

"ilr. Boyle has done well in the interests of historical completeness to describe

not only the entire military drama, but also the political events connected with

it, and whoever reads the book with care has gone a considerable way towards

mastering the difficult Egyptian question." — Athenaeum.

The Egyptian fiasco has found in Mr. Boyle a most painstaking, accurate, and
judicious historian. From a literary point of view, his volumes may be thought
to contain too many unimportant incidents, yet their presence was necessary,
perhaps, in a complete record, and the most fastidious reader will unhesitatingly
acquit Mr. Boyle of filling his pages with anything that can be called padding." —
St. James's Gazette.

EIGHTEENTH CENTURY WAIFS. By John

AsHTON, Author of ' Social Life in the Reign of Queen Anne,' &c.
1 vol. small 4to. 12s.
The matter contained in this book is always pleasing and instructive. There
is certainly not a dull page in the volume." — Globe.
Mr. Ashtonhas produced a volume of light and pleasant character," — Post.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.
Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. los.
"Madame de Witt has done justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson's translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the bxxViqcV —Saturday Review.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to. 5s.
"These letters, the work of a pure and devout spirit, deserve to find many
readers. They are greatly superior to the average of what is called religious
literature. '■ — A tfienceuvi.

"These letters are exceptionally graceful and touching, and may be read with
profit' — Graphic.

WITHOUT GOD: Negative Science and Natural

Ethics. By Percy Greg, Author of "The Devil's Advocate,"
"Across the Zodiac," &c, 1 vol. demy Svo. 12s.
This work is ably written ; there are in it many passages of no ordinary power
and brilliancy. It is eminently suggestive and stimulating"— ^co^^marj,

WOMEN OF EUROPE IN THE FIFTEENTH

AND SIXTEENTH CENTURIES. By Mrs. Napier Higgins.

Vols. 1 and 2, demy Svo. sos.
"The volumes contain biographies of women more or less directly connected
with the history of Scandinavia, Germany, Hungary, Lithuania, and Poland
during the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. The work is likely to be of permanent
value to the students of history." — Morning Post.

THE TRACK OF THE STORM : A Novel. By

Dora Russell, Author of ' Footprints in the Snow,' ' The Broken

Seal,' &c. 3 vols.
"Miss Russell's new book has many of the best features of the modem English
novel ; it is precisely the bright freshness which runs through the book that constitutes
its great charm." — Morning Post.

THE DEATH SHIP : A Strange Story. By W.

Clark Russell, Author of ' The Wreck of the Grosvenor,' ' The
Golden Hope,' &c. 3 vols.
"The best of all the author's novels both in conception and execution"— Graphic.

A BITTER REPENTANCE. By Lady Virginia

Sanders. 3 vols.
Lady Virginia Sanders' new novel is told with more than average skill; the
author has a fertile imagination, which enables her to vary, ad libitum, the situations
in which she places her personages." — Morning Post.

A CREATURE OF CIRCUMSTANCES. By

Harry Landor. 3 vols.
"Some of the scenes are pathetic and interesting to a degree, and there is
scarcely a chapter that could be passed over from absence of interest." — The
Society Herald.

A FAIR CRUSADER; A Story of To-day. By

William Stall, Author of "Larry Lohengrin," "A Queer
Race," &c. 2 vols.
The interest does not halt for a moment in these pages, full of incident and
adventure"— iforwmsr Post.

Minette : an Idyll of Provence. By the Author

of 'Vera,' 'Blue Roses,' &c, (second Editions 1 vol. crown 8vo. 6s.
"The tale in itself is true to nature and tenderly pathetic." — Morning Post.
"This is a particularly well-told story." — Globe.

THE LASSES OF LEVERHOUSE. By Jessie

FoTHERGiLL, Author of 'Kith and Kin,' 'The First Violin,' &c.
1 voL crown 8vo. 6s.
"There is a youthful freshness and heartiness in the author's way of telling her
story which makes the book peculiarly enjoyable." — Scotsman.

THE GOLDEN HOPE : A Romance of the Deep.

By W. Clark Russell, Author of " A Sea Queen," " The Wreck
of the Grosvenor," &c. 1 vol. 6s.
"Mr. Clark Russell is at his best in 'The Golden Hope,' which means that this
book of his is one of the finest books of its kind in our language." — Academy.

A HOUSE PARTY. By Ouida. (Second Edition.)

1 vol. crown 8vo. 6s.
The sketches of character are hit off with accuracy of observation and with a
firm and clear outline." — Daily Telegraph.

ON THE SCENT. By Lady Margaret Majestie,

Author of 'Dita,' 'Once More,' ' Sisters-in-law,' &c. 1 vol.
crown Svo. 6s.
"A bright and wholesome story"— St. James's Gazette.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

THE AWAKENING OF MARY FEN WICK.

A Novel. By Beatrice Whitby. 3 vols.

GRAHAM ASPEN, PAINTER : A Novel. By

George False, Author of ' Weeping Ferry,' &c. 2 vols.

Geraldine. By Vere Clavering, Author of

A Modern Delilah.' 3 vols.

A GAME OF C H ANCE. By Ella Curtis (Shirley

Smith), Author of " The Favourite of Fortune'' &c. 3 vols.
"'A Game of Chance' is a good novel, and one which we doubt not will be
very popular'— Literary World.

VIOLET Vivian, M.F.H. By May Crommelix,

Author of " Queene," and J. Moray Brown, Author of " Shinar
Sketches*' 3 vols.
"Between them, these authors in double harness have produced an uncommonly
good mixture of sport and love-making"— 5^ James's Gazette.

RESTITUTION. By Anne Beale, Author of ' Fay

Arlington,' ' The Pennant Family,' ' Squire Lisle's Bequest,' &c.
3 vols.
"Miss Beale excels in pictures of still life, and the portraits of the old ladies of
'Eoselauds' shew her to possess observation and a sense of humour." — Post.

MISTRESS BEATRICE COPE, or Passages in

THE Life of a Jacobite's Daughter. By M. E. Le Clerc. 2 vols.
A simple, natural, credible romance charged with the colour of the time, and
satisfying the mind of a thoughtful readers ^</i<?«(:eM;/;.

THROUGH THE LONG NIGHT. By Mrs. E.

Ltxk Linton, Author of ' Patricia Kimball,' ' Pastor Carew,'

lone,' &c. 3 vols.

"It is scarcely necessary to sign 'Through the Long Night,' for the practised

pen of Mrs. Lynn Linton stands revealed on every page of it. It is like so many

of its predecessors, hard and bright, full of entertaining reflection and brisk

development of plot" — Saturday Review.

Deronda. By the Countess of Munster. 3 vols.

"We shall await with pleasant expectation further contributions to contemporary
sectional literature from the unquestionably clever author of ' Deronda.' ' —
baihj Telegraph.

HUGH Warrington. By Gertrude Forde, Author

of ' In the Old Palazzo,' ' Driven before the Storm,' &c. 3 vols.
The story is pleasantly told, and we think it will add to the authoress's popu-
larity."^Zi7era/'y World.

THE YOUNGEST MISS GREEN. By F. W.

Robinson, Author of ' Grandmother's Money,' &c. 3 vols.
"The plot of this story is admirably constructed, and its secret so carefully
concealed that the reader most familiar with the surprises of the novelist will be
quite taken aback when he discovers who the real murderer of Drusilla Lincoln
is It is one of the most ' gritty ' novels that have been published for a longtime.
" — A academy.

A DAUGHTER OF DIVES. By Leith Derwent,

Author of ' Circe's Lovers,' ' King Lazarus,' &c. 3 vols.
"Readers will find Mr. Leith Derwent's plot interesting, exciting, and original,
and worked out with considerable acquaintance of peoples and climes"— /'jccot/iV/y.

EACH IN ONE VOLUME CROWN 8vo.

THE DUCHESS.

By the Author of 'Molly Bawii,' 'Phyllis,' 'Airy Fairy
Lilian,' ' Lady Grasmere,' Etc.

Minette: An Idyll of Provence.

By the Author of ' Vera,' ' Blue Roses,' * The Maritime Alps
and their Seaboard,' Etc.

THE LASSES OF LEVERHOUSE.

By Jessie Fothergill, Author of ' Kith and Kin,' ' The
First Violin,' 'Probation,' Etc.

THE GOLDEN HOPE.

By W. Clark Russell, Author of ' A Sea Queen,' ' The
Wreck of the Grosvenor,' Etc.

ON THE SCENT.

By Lady Margaret Majestie, Author of ' Dita,' ' Once
More,' ' Sisters-in-law,' Etc.
HIS LITTLE MOTHER.

By the Author of ' John Halifax, Gentleman,' ' A Life for a
Life,' 'Christian's Mistake,' Etc.

MY LORD AND MY LADY.

By Mrs. Forrester, Author of ' Omnia Vanity,' ' Viva, '
'Mignon,' 'Dolores,' 'Rhone,' Etc.

SOPHY: or the Adventures of a Savage.

By Violet Fane, Author of ' Denzil Place,' ' Anthony
Barrington,' Etc.

A HOUSE PARTY.

By OuiDA, Author of ' Under Two Flags,' ' Puck, '
Othman,' Etc.

OMNIA Vanity : A Tale of Society.

By Mrs. Forrester, Author of ' My Lord and My Lady,'
'Viva,' 'Mignon,' Etc.

THE BETRAYAL OF REUBEN HOLT.
By Barbara Lake.

PLAIN SPEAKING.

By the Author of 'John Halifax, Gentleman,' 'His Little
Mother,' ' A Life for a Life,' Etc.

THE Brandies.

By the Right Hon. A. J. B. Beresford-Hope, Author of
Strictly Tied Up,' Etc.

LONDON : Hues AND BLACKETT, LIMITED.
