HELEN OfOKENS

0t 0»

■i>il»i»iii iiTilm

OF THE

U N 1 Verity

or ILLINOIS

D553 w

V.I

;il Hotel.

BY

HELEN DICKENS,

Thir OF "married AT LAST," "THE MILL Wheel" "WILD WOOD,
THE HOME OF FAITH."

Though the mills of God gi-lnd slowly.

Yet they grind exceedingly small ;
Though with patience He stands waiting.
With exactness grinds He all."

Longfellow,

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :
CHARLES J. SKEET, 10, KING WILLIAM STREET,

CHARING CROSS.

18SL
[All Ri,£;hfs Reset vet.]

^Iv gear aiib ©nlj) sister.

=>«<:

CHAPTER I.

I see the lights of the village

Gleam through the rain and the mist,
And a feeling of sadness comes o'er me,
That my soul cannot resist."

Thirty years ago I was born, and three
hours after my mother died. A motherless
child is a pitiful thing. It is better — as in
my case — when there is not the faintest
recollection of that parent.

I am an only child, and I can truthfully
VOL. I. 1

affirm from experience that it is a miserable
condition.

A good woman, a widow, who had
known and served my mother before her
marriage, was my nurse, and ably fulfilled
her trust.

My father was aristocratic, handsome,
feeble, and selfish.

He loved me, but he loved himself and
his violin better.

My life, until ten years ago, was spent
in a poorly-furnished house in a village.
By looking through the window I can seethe
moon riding serenely above it ; by
running down the hill for half an hour
I can reach its rickety gate and blistered
door.

We were poor. It was poverty from
which there was no escape, for my father
was one of those erratic geniuses whose

belief in themselves there is no shaking,
and whose success is consequently destined
to be never anything more than a dream.
Had my mother lived things might have
been different — but she died.

They married for — love.

A silly thing to do in the opinion of
most people, but a beautifully unselfish
action when committed by a clever, sensible
woman like my mother.

Their marriage was an unequal one.
My father, Edwin Sharland, was the
second son of a nobleman, a race that
prided itself on its purity and antiquity.
My mother was a — nobody, and a — public
singer.

They met at the house of an aunt of

my father s, the Duchess of M , where

Miss Earl had been hired to sing and
amuse the fashionable company.

1—2

My father, impulsive, weak, silly, and
music-mad, fell in love with the good-looking,
charming songstress. By birth
alone was he superior. Never a penny
had he made in his life. She had made
many a pound, and a good name. Her
connection as a teacher was excellent, and
her modest house was entered daily by the
elite of society.

Her life was as blameless, as true asher
face ; her contentment envied by
many.

Directly my father's unfortunate attachment
became known, his family renounced
him, and he was cast upon the world with
his extravagant tastes and expensive
hobbies to gain his livelihood as best he
could.

Had my mother been wise and mercenary,
she would have declined to marry

him, and continued her own brave,
lucrative life.

She however, in this extremity, proved
herself a true woman. She married her
love with as much romance and thoughtlessness
as any school - girl of seventeen.


Her foolishness did not end here. She
hearkened to her proud husband's importunities,
and gave up her profession, perhaps
believing, with him, that his father
would relent and procure his son some
appointment.

This deluded couple sought a nest
wherein to dwell together, and found it in
the village of Holland.

A house was selected, taken, furnished ;
and therein they settled themselves upon a
most moderate income.

Their staff of domestics consisted of

Gerard, my mothers servant, afterwards
my nurse, and a married couple, John
and Peggy, farm-servants and worthy
people.

Time passed happily enough, but my
grandfather did not relent, and my mother
determined to resume her profession when
baby should be born,

I was born, and you know what happened,
reader.

She of the great heart and good intentions
was taken, and laid to rest under the
churchyard wall ; and my poor father and I
were left, one a feeble child, the other a
weak man.

Not two months had she been hidden
ere he committed an unwarrantable piece
of extravagance. He ordered a costly
monument, surmounted by an angel in
white marble.

When I knew my letters I delighted in
spelling out the inscription :

"IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE OF

Frances Shetland,

AGED 32 YEARS.

*The rest of the just is blessed'"

"From their nests beneath the rafters sang the
swallows wild and high ;
And the world, beneath me sleeping, seemed more
distant than the sky."

My childhood was free enough from cares,
because I did not understand them. As I
grew I learnt pretty correctly our situation,
and the view I was expected to take of the
matter.

Naturally strong, like my mother, I
grew apace, and my brain keeping even with
my body, I might have been called a sensible
girl.

My education my father undertook, and

instructed me in the usual routine. In
this alone did he do his duty. With the
exception of the three hours spent with
him each day, I can recall no single act of
attention that he paid me. Gerard was
my adviser and companion. She bade me
learn well and quickly, and respect my
father.

This latter injunction was by no means
unnecessary, for, as I got to understand,
my mind rather rebelled to acknowledge
for its master and superior one who wasted
every day of his life, and grumbled to those
who served him to the best of their
ability.

To sacrifice any of his own pet indulgences
or comforts never occurred to him,
and Gerard followed the example set by
my mother, and strove to gratify them.

Though the carpet was literally held together

by darns, my shoes patched, my
dresses turned and mended times without
number, my father never noticed it, but
ate his dainty dinner and drank his choice
wine, grumbling all the while they were
not better.

His dreams of success were humorous
and ridiculous, yet one could not but pity
the silly creature.

Now, it was a picture ; now, an opera,
to which we were to owe our fortune.

The picture was to be exhibited for a
year, and then sold at a fabulous price.

The opera was to enchant the world, and
have a run of three hundred and sixty-five
nights.

Alas, alas ! that a man should be the
slave of hope !

At first I, too, hoped and believed.
Afterwards I knew the *' carriers cart"

would return us the rejected treasure,
charging more than we could afford for that
act of mercy.

My father was clever, but every bud
that opened in his imagination withered
ere it gained maturity.

He seemed powerless to grasp and keep
the idea for the time it required to put it
upon canvas or into notes.

Here and there through his piles of
MS. you come upon sweet melodies ; turn
the page over, and the next attempt is
flat, worthless.

So with his pictures. In every one there
was a fault.

After each disappointment he sat crouched
in his study, the returned child of his genius
placed before him, over which he hung in
fond despair.

The next day hope was stronger than

ever ; his new undertaking more prodigious.


The only picture I ever thought valuable
was a portrait of my mother.

Gerard assured me it was an excellent
likeness, and the workmanship was allowed
to be good.

It is hanging before me now, and I can
see that I strongly resemble it. From my
mother I inherit every quality I possess,
coupled with her excellent health and
courage.

There is not a trace of my father's fair,
delicate beauty in my countenance.

My education was not suffered alone to
occupy my attention.

Gerard taught me housekeeping on an
economical scale ; and how to fashion my
own garments.

Music was my delight, and I early

became no despicable performer on both
piano and violin.

My father was proud of the progress I
made. A sprinkling of my father's genius
I may have possessed, but my mother's
strong practical sense and perseverance
enabled me to see the necessity for action
the advantage of doing , as well as
thinking.

My father's apathy was ever a reproach,
a warning to me. 1 tried to rouse him,
and then discovered how helpless he was.

I pitied him, and as I grew stronger,
loved him more for his weakness.

Often have I stopped in the midst of
my cooking to listen to him playing, and
my soul has moved within me at the
delicious music 1 knew no other ears would
ever hearken to.

His shrinking from publicity was painful.

Had he been baser born, he might
not have been so sensitive, and more equal
to battling with the crowd.

Never can I forget the horror with which
he received my proposal that I should
teach music. His distress so tortured me
that I resolved never to mention the subject
again, and to push on the best way
I could.

Had it not been for the excellent
servants we possessed, things could not
have held together.

But they saved for us, contrived that
there should be sufficient, and never
grumbled.

Visions of childhood ! stay, oh stay !

Ye were so sweet and wild 1
And distant voices seemed to say,
It cannot be ! They pass away j
Other themes demand thy lay ;

Thou art no more a child !' "

The garden under John's management
produced all and more than we required.
The surplus he sold to a shop in the
village, unknown to my father, and the
money went to swell the household purse.
In the same way the fowls, ducks, turkeys,
were made profitable. They all belonged
to me.

The first sitting of eggs had been presented
to me by Peggy's brother when I
was a child of six.

Instructed by Gerard and John, I learnt
to manage them well, and regularly sold
eggs and fowls.

After a time, I bought sittings of ducks'
and turkeys' eggs, and they had increased
and paid many a bill that would otherwise
have proved a trouble to us.

The honest servants admired my thrifty
ways, and helped me with advice.

Friends we were not troubled with. My
proud father could not forget his noble
parentage, and prevented me making any
companions in the village.

The clergyman and doctor were the only
two who came to our house, and I saw
they were never at their ease with my
father.

He was not popular ; he had no tact.
Gerard told me how different my mother
was ; how she would talk and laugh with
people till she charmed them into doing
what she wanted.

Her face would soften and grow so
winning there was not a man could withstand
her when she chose.

When it was not her intention to bend
or conciliate, she could hold them at bay
in a manner peculiar to few women.

"People said she was very clever, Miss
Grace ; and I do know she had more
energy and determination than anyone I
ever knew."

Oftener than not, Gerard and I went
to church alone. Papa seemed more miserable
in the old square pew than anywhere
else.

Sunday was to me a pleasant day. I
VOL. I. 2.

had nothing to do, and used therefore tr
lazy about, and inspect the property insides
and out.

The result of these examinations was
the discovery that some aged thing required
immediate attention, if we would
not have it down about our ears, bringing
on the Monday a renewal of labour.

In church I used to look round while Mr.
'Duckworth stuttered through his sermon,
and consider how I could make old garments
new.

I was by no means indifferent as to my
appearance. I admired my well-grown
size, my good figure, my fine eyes and
teeth, with a perfectly genuine healthy
admiration. I was much better pleased
with myself than if I had been sickly,
feeble, stupid, dwarfed.

I prized my charms as every woman

should ; and I knew that my vigorous
beauty would win me many friends, and
help me on in life.

Strange fancies strayed in my brain —
peeps at the possible future — as I sat in
the quiet church, and pretended to listen
to Mr. Duckworth's twaddle, as perched
aloft he expounded and sermonised to us
poor ignorant sinners for an hour and five
minutes, about what he did not understand
himself.

I liked it — the being there, I mean. I
shut my ears to the good man in the box,
and thought my own thoughts, and watched
the swallows whirling and curling between
the beams, and darting through the open
door or window. Sometimes my eyes
rested on the three high pews devoted to
the " Manor " servants, or upon the pinched
ladies largely bonneted in the big pew at

2—2

the other side of the church. I never
managed to see more than the feathers or
crown of these enormous head-covers. I
liked the birds and waving trees best, and
the dreams that came to me in the stillness
of the old church.

I sit there now, sometimes ; but the
dreams don't come. I try, I pray ; it is no
use, the door of heaven has shut, and
all I can do is to knock and hope ! What
strange power forces me to tell now what
I have hidden so long, I know not ; yet I
must obey that mysterious behest, for it
says :

In more hearts than one you will find
an echo."

For some time Gerard had been ailing.
A cough troubled her, so I moved my bed
into her room, and nursed her. It was
nice work, for she was patient. Many a

night, when approaching death drove away
sleep, she would lie and talk to me
till the early morning broke, and the
birds sang on the apple-boughs at the
window.

It was always about her young days —
when she lived with my good mother.

Try and be like your mother, Miss
Grace. Nothing she put her hand to
ever went wrong; everything came on
with her, and she used to say, ' It is all
because I am in earnest, Gerard.' "

It was the middle of summer before my
dear old nurse died. The harvesters were
busy in the barley, and the grasshoppers and
crickets chirped all night long.

She had complained of feeling cold, and
I had lain down beside her to warm
her.

I must have dozed, for her voice recalled

me from a walk I was taking with my
mother, in a wood full of flowers.

Miss Grace ! Miss Grace I"

*^ Yes, nurse."

Listen to me, dearie ; I have something
very particular to say. I shall not get
better and some day your father's turn
will, come, and you will be alone. I have
no fear for you. Miss Grace ; you are your
mother's own child, you will help yourself.
Put your hand under my pillow. Do you
feel a letter ?"

Yes."

When I am dead, take it and put it
away, and tell nobody. After your father
is dead, open and read it. Promise you
will do this, Miss Grace !"

** I promise, dear nurse."

*' That's a good child ; kiss me, and call

I did 80, and ere the hands of the clock
had made another circle she had passed
away.

I had received my last lesson from those
lips.

Let us, then, be up and doing,
With a heart for any fate ;
Still achieving, still pursuing,
Learn to labour and to wait."

I FELT my nurse's loss acutely, but I bore
my grief quietly. I am naturally philosophical,
and reflection had made me aware
at an early date that some day I must part
from her unless my own life was to be an
unusually short one. Aye, and from my
father also. That sad event might God in
His mercy postpone

The household cares, management, and

continual contrivance necessary to keep such
a shattered income as ours floating, now-devolved
solely upon me.

Prompted by conscience, and the belief
that those in heaven look down upon those
belonging to them on earth, I strove to act
up to nurse's teaching.

I neglected nothing — early and late I
wrought, and though my efforts met with
no commendation, I was soothed by the
inward sense of satisfaction, which is always
the reward of those who do their best.

The house was very quiet — there might
have been no young life in it. But it was
from no lack of spirit that I was subdued.
Too often I had troubles that hushed the
laughter on my lips, and constantly there
was the future before me — the time when
I should be alone.

I did not dread it ; but common sense

and innate precaution recommended me to
fit myself for it. The unexplored future
of Liberty charmed me — opened before
my mind a vista of employment and
success.

I should live and have my portion at
Fate's hands, like other mortals. I was
no coward, and my heart bounded with
hope.

I knew I should fail, but only for a
little time, just while death shadowed the
house.

Let me bury my dead and I would
revive.

For my mind to remain inactive and
clouded was impossible.

Too many were the ideas that entered
it ; too fantastic the pictures that imagination
presented to it.

True to my promise, I locked nurse

letter away in the china-cupboard, perfectly
contented to exercise another act of
obedience and patience.

By the time the blow descended, I was
prepared for it.

I had become used to the idea, and not
having been able to avert the calamity, I
accepted it resignedly. While my father
lived I did my duty, when he was dead I
turned my attention to myself and wasted
neither time nor strength in selfish, silly
regret.

Very likely people were shocked, but I
did not see the connection between myself
and the people of Holland.

I simply followed the course reflection
had pointed out to me.

I must help myself, win respect, bread,
and a home, or collapse, do nothing, and
finally sink into that condition which

enables the merciful to say " Poor thing,"
and the brutal to scoff at.

My father was buried, and I was alone.

He died in February.

Sad enough and very chilly, I crouched
over the fire in the shabby sitting-room.
The only article of value in it was my
mother's piano.

The rain fell steadily, and as evening
approached a mist gathered, and hung like
a veil over the churchyard.

Do what I would, I could not forget the
newly-made grave, and the loved remains
hidden for ever beneath the soaking earth.
A thrush sang mournfully in the may-bush,
the rain depressed it. I had fed it
dl the winter, and it wanted to sympathize
with me.

My heart was sore and heavy.

Peggy, draped in new black, came in

with the tea-tray. She drew the table
near the hearth.

Come, Miss Grace, you will make your
crape quite brown at that fire."

I rose directly. Economy was instilled
in my nature. A new dress was an event
in my life, and now more than ever
came the query, " When shall I get
another ?"

Peggy placed an old-fashioned easy-chair
at the table. This chair was mine ; I had
used it when a child as a place of refuge.
I dropped into its deep arms gladly enough.
The door closed, and I was alone in the
room. Tempting looked the repast, the
white bread, the new-laid eggs, the fresh
butter and marmalade. Think not it was
my first solitary meal. No, indeed.

During my father's illness I had crept
down to eat, tired, sick, solitary, and I had

got used to seeing my own face alone
reflected in the old-fashioned tea-pot.

To-night, however, my thoughts wandered
away from the business of eating. 1 was
on the alert ; the pattering rain, the gusts
of wind that shook the rickety casement,
gave rise to an odd, weird impression.

The idea of the dead seeing became a
certainty, and I felt I was watched. Their
spirits were in the room, their presence
hovered round me, and my courage rose.

Homeless ! a vagrant ! never — never ! I
felt the power, nameless but strong, to
meet the coming adversity take possession
of me. A sensation of perfect peace, tranquillity,
satisfaction, stole over me. Unable
to control myself, I answered, *' I will."

Excitement caused my blood to tingle
through my veins, the strong illusion was
At its height, when the front door bell rang.

Mastering my emotion, and calling to
my aid the dignity needful for my situation,
I awaited the issue.

That ring was something novel and
important. There was not a creature in
the village who would trouble themselves
about me. My orphaned condition would
call forth no higher feeling than that of
curiosity.

I had ever observed towards the people
an indifferent manner, and they called
me proud. Pride it surely was, but
not of the kind they supposed. My life
had not been like theirs, and my ideas
were contrary in every respect. I knew
them so well, that I had little desire to
put my feeble parent in their power by
making them acquainted with the extent
of our poverty. So I eschewed friendship.


"Miss Grace," said Peggy, opening the
door, " here is a gentleman wishing to see
you."

Then show the gentleman in."

Sweet is the memory of departed worth."

My order was obeyed, and a man of
perhaps fifty entered. I smiled and bowed,
I liked his look. He took mv hand.

*' Have you ever heard your father
mention George Cartland V

*' Yes, often. It is very good of you to
come, Mr. Cartland. You know, of course,
that my father was buried to-day ?"

I know, and am sorry 1 could not get
here in time for the funeral."

He eyed me curiously. Most likely h©
expected me to dissolve into a flood of tears.

VOL. I. 3

I knew my cheerful countenance and dry-eyed
condition was ill-suited to a child who
had but that day buried her last parent.
The next second my mind had taken in
the possibility that the living man had
had no tea.

"You have but just come, Mr. Cartland ;
then you will need some tea. I am going
to have mine."

He accepted.

'* I left my bag at the Stag when I inquired
the way here. Shall I put you
about if I stay ?"

No, not at all. And, Mr. Cartland, I
should like you to stay here ; my father
would wish it, so I will send John for your
bag."

** Miss Sharland, you are troubling yourself
too much on my account."

Indeed I am not. Did you know me

better, you would find me too selfish to
allow anyone to trouble me. If the truth
must be owned, your presence will be a
help to me. There is no one in the place
to whom I can speak ; I am quite alone
with these old servants*

Dear— dear !"

I fancied I saw tears in his eyes.

A pull at the bell brought Peggy. I
had settled my visitor in a comfortable
chair at the opposite side of the fire.

'* Peggy, Mr. Cartland will stay here
while he is in Holland, so send John to the
Stag for his bag, and bring some more
tea and eatables."

A gaze of astonishment overspread the
countenance of the dame. Perhaps she
begrudged the cold fowls, or wondered how
I could entertain on the day of my father's
funeral.

3—2

In a few moments the things came, and
we sat down to the repast. Contrary to
my expectations, I enjoyed it.

My companion suited me to a nicety.
He was frank, easy-mannered and intelligent.


We found plenty to discuss before my
future was mentioned.

That subject he refrained from touching
upon till we were seated near the fire, and
my fingers lay idle on my lap, for a wonder.

He watched me earnestly for a few
moments, then heaved a sigh of relief.

** Do you know, Miss Sharland, all the
way here I was wondering what you were
like, which parent you resembled ; and I
am relieved, for your sake, that it is after
your mother you take."

You knew my mother, then V*

*' Intimately. Knew her before she

married your father. My wife and your
mother were fellow-workers, and your
mother was one of the most capable
women I ever met. She had the best constitution,
wit and humour, coupled to
unusual courage and intelligence. Miss
EmcI was allowed to be a most fascinating
lucy."

I had liked hin before, but now, when I
knew he had been acquainted with my
mother and valued her, as I believe such
women ought to be valued, my liking expanded
into confidence and reverence. My
face expressed my feelings, for he remarked
: " But you do not remember your
mother V

Oh no; but my old nurse, Gerard — you
may recollect she was my mother's maid —
used to speak constantly to me of her, and
it needed but little to fan the spark of

affection, placed by nature within my heart,
into a flame that can now never die. My
father was more of a care to me than a
protection, Mr. Cartland."

"I perfectly understand that he would
be. He had not your vigorous mind or
body, yet a singularly talented man. I
think, had your mother lived, he would
have appeared to advantage in the world.
However, we must not dwell on the pastor
we may regret it ; our business is with
the present, and it is about yourself I would
speak. I see you have been brought up
methodically, and are probably versed in
all domestic arts ? So much the better,
for, unless you marry, I cannot see that
you will be enabled to indulge in either
idleness or extravagance."

I have no prospect of marriage," I replied,
noticing that he paused.

Indeed ; then we must turn all our
energies to account. Do you know how
your father's income was derived ?"

'' No."

Then I will tell you — from an annuity
which ended with his life. Perhaps he
might have saved for you out of it had he
tried ; I do not know about that, but I do
know that he did not do so, because he
wrote to me last month and said so. Do
you understand your position ?"

** Clearly. After the debts are paid — to
accomplish which every article must be
sold — I shall be a beggar !"

"I am afraid so."

An awkward silence followed.

He was distressed for me, more so than

was for myself.

It was a dream, and would not stay,
A dream that in a single night
Faded and vanished out of sight."

His voice broke the silence.

'* Have you formed any plans for the
future, Miss Sharland 1"

"I have not."

You are well educated, I suppose '?"

'* I believe so. I am tolerably proficient
in music — piano and violin ; I draw and
sing well; but I do not speak any language
save ray own. My father directed my
education in these branches ; Gerard taught

me economical housekeeping and the use
of my needle."

*' Then I conclude you are qualified for
the profession most gentlewomen embrace
teaching? You can be a governess."

A governess in some one else's house ?"

Certainly ; a resident governess."

I subsided. I did not tell him that
upon one point I was determined, and. that
was — not to herd with strangers.

A hireling in another dwelling I No,
emphatically rio !

To work I was willing enough ; but I
must have my own home, be it ever so
poor. Some hole where I could enter and
act like a human being: — a creature with
likes and dislikes — not a machine.

I looked round the room.

Never had it seemed so dear — so cosy.
Be houseless, live under the surveillance of

strangers, to perhaps utter in an unguarded
moment a frank idea, an original opinion,
and be stared at for the next ten minutes in
ladylike displeasure by the mamma of the
family ! The joys of companionship and
sociability were unknown to me ; and a
thorough knowledge of my own disposition
warned me to avoid making their acquaintance
in the manner suggested.

My mind turned to make an effort of
resistance, to find a means of escaping the
misery, and there flashed into it Gerard s
letter, hidden away in the china-cupboard.
She had foreseen this time; and, loving me
for my own sake and my mother's, striven
to soften it for me.

"Win" questioned my friend, seeing
my altered face.

^' I have just remembered a letter nurse
gave me before she died. She charged me

to tell no one, and not to open it until my
father wa dead and I alone. I put it
away in that cupboard."

Get it ; there may be something of
importance in it. Gerard was a sensible
woman, or she could never have lived with
your mother'

I took the key-basket, found the ,
opened the door, and reached
the letter out of an old fruit-dish. It was
dated more than a year previous to her
death.

My dear Miss Glace,

*' I think it better to be prepared
with a letter in case my death should be
sudden, or you away at the time. One
never knows what may happen.

Before you were born your mother
gave me a box to keep for you. It contains

her jewellery — all that she had not
disposed of to help your papa — and papers
of value.

"It is left to your own judgment how you
use this gift ; but if you are anything like
your mother it will be put to an excellent
purpose.

It is in the linen-press.

*jane Gerard."

'* In the linen-press !" exclaimed Mr.
Cartland, when I finished reading. " How
like a woman to hide it. My wife upon
one occasion, when she fancied she heard
robbers, deposited all her valuables inside
a feather-bed ; and the business then was
to extricate them !"

Thinking over his wife's prank, I left
the worthy main and hastened to the press.

Here I had some difficulty to contend

with, for the press was deep and full of
things, all more or less worthless.

At last, nearly at the bottom, and when
all the blood in my body had run into my
head through holding it down so long, I
felt something hard between a pair of crib
sheets, and triumphantly pulled out a
stout box fastened with a strap.

Intensely excited, I regained the sitting-room,
and placed it on the table.

Mr. Cartland came to my assistance and
opened it.

The jewellery was good ; some diamonds,
according to Mr. Cartland's
opinion, of considerable value. The papers
were the deeds of two cottages in my
mother's native town, Leeds, and the rents
had gone to the support of a distant and
very poor relation of my mother's. Should
that person be dead, there was no reason

why I should not make use of the
property.

Mr. Cartland's congratulations recalled
me.

Heartily do I rejoice with you, my dear,
upon your good fortune. Now you will
have something to turn to. Gerard was
perfectly correct in keeping this box a
secret from your papa. He would have
made away with all these things to try
some new idea that was to make a fortune
for you both, and in the end only lost him
money he could ill afford, and had no right
to touch."

Silently I agreed. Well did I remember
the money he had squandered, poor
dear, and the pinching we had to endure to
make up the bills that were short.

That was ended though, and now it was
my turn to try what I could do.

'' You would like to keep this jewellery.
Miss Sharland ?"

Of course I should like to, but it
would be absurd. My wisest plan is to
sell it and place the money out to the best
advantage. You will do this for me, Mr.
Cartland."

^^ With pleasure. I will do the very
best J can for you, and you must look
upon me as your friend, your guardian. My
wife desired me to give her love, and say
she hoped you would return with me and
make our home yours until you found
something you liked better."

Such kindness moved me, and I returned
thanks very sincerely. Promise to go
I however did not. To society I was unaccustomed,
and I thought at such a time
I should learn my lesson ill.

"With Mr. Cartland's help things were

put into something like order. The furniture
was to be sold in a month's time to
pay the debts. Meanwhile, I could live
there if I chose. T did choose, and Mr.
Cartland returned to London carrying the
precious box with him.

Since none enjoy all blessings, be content with your
few."

Peggy and John took as much care of meas
if I had been their own child, and I
regretted the time when we must part.

I walked out constantly, I required exercise
and fresh air to keep my health and
buoyancy.

In the spring I had special joys. I
knew the banks where the first primroses
bloomed, the sheltered nooks full of early
snowdrops, the edgeways where the first
violets peeped out. In spring I was

VOL. I. 4

always glad ; I awoke pleased in the early
morning; I enjoyed the hope, the buoyancy
displayed by nature. I thought incessantly
of my future. How should I arrange ?
where should I go ? Seek a place as
governess ? No. A daily engagement I
might get on with, but to be shut up with
the people would crush all my life out of me.

My heart inclined to Holland. If I
could only stay there ! This was the point
where I always stopped in my reflections.
Something seemed to hold me back. One
afternoon I returned from my walk with a
bunch of violets.

'' Look, Peggy !" I exclaimed, as she
opened the door.

Lor', Miss Grace, it is queer how you
do keep some of your childish ways. I see
in your face you have heard the news."

News ? I have heard nothing."

Don't get frightened, Miss Grace. You
can see by my face it is something nice.

John says I look like I did when he asked

J)
me.

She certainly did look pleased, and I
marvelled what it could be.

'^ Tell me, Peggy."

^'Sit down, dearie, then."

I sat down.

'* We have heard of a place, Miss
Grace. You know Squire Lovering's, the
Manor, that white house behind the
church in a park ?"

eyes."

Well, he wants a man and his wife to
manage the farm, and John has gone to see
about it."

'' Where is the farm, and what have I todo
with it r'

'' This, Miss Grace. You might live

4—2

y^/VfRSfTY QB

with us. The farm is at Upholland, on
yonder hill."

My heart beat quicker. Surely my desire
was to be granted. I might, after all,
stay near my mother's grave. I tried to
remember the whereabouts of the farm, and
questioned Peggy*'

Do you recollect that old-fashioned
white house near the road, with the deep
porch and low wall in front. The orchard
is a sight for blossom in spring !"

That !" I gasped, jumping up, " that
the farm, Martha V

'' Yes, sure enough. Miss Grace ; that's
the Manor Farm. The family lived there
once, before the Manor was rebuilt after
the fire. How nice it would be for us.
John is quite hopeful ; he says he could not
bear a home with no lady in it, and I

I

would do my best to make you comfortable."


"Oh, Peggy, don't ! It is too good ; we
must not expect it."

I turned my back on the generous old
creature, and set about schooling myself for
the disappointment. It was too good to
come to pass. That sweet old house, the
large garden, the fields and woods all
round. A place after my own heart.

John's return was anxiously expected.
I had tried to prepare myself for a disappointment
and had not succeeded.

Already my imagination had placed us in
the house, and found me employment
in Danver, the next town, four miles
ois.

With what I earned, and derived from
the selling of mother's jewellery, I could get
along, and live with Peggy and John.

When John did come, and knocked at
the door to tell me the news, I sickened
and shivered miserably. In a very faint
voice I bade him enter.

Aye, aye, missis, don't you take on,"
cried the kind-hearted fellow, looking as
pitifully in my face as the day when he
accidentally stepped upon my pet kitten,
and nearly broke my heart. " It's all
right; the squire has engaged us, and
wants to see Peggy tomorrow."

Did you mind to tell him about Miss
Grace, John ?" exclaimed his wife, plucking
his sleeve.

'' I did. Wasn't that the last thing you
shouted after me, as if I be deaf?" retorted
he, wheeling round irefully upon his better
half '^I said as I hoped he had no objections
for us to have a lady a-living in the house
along with us, for there was our young

missis, as we loved like our own, and had
no wish to part from "

Here his emotion entirely gained the
mastery, and it ended in us all crying.

I now learnt that their sorrow had been
for me, their trouble my desolate condition.


They were ready to do anything if only
they could keep me.

Good creatures! God bless them, and
let me keep them until I have made some
amends to them for their goodness to me.
They say I have done it, they are happy
and contented. If I go quietly to the
kitchen, I shall find them sitting in the
firelight. Peggy, erect and sprightly, busy
knitting, her stiff mob-cap making a
gigantic shadow on the wall behind her ;
John smoking at his ease in the arm-chair.
The keys are hanging on the nail, all is

safe for the night, and the wind that
moans and whistles carries no evil tidings
to them, simple souls !

For my ears alone are the jeers and
laughs, the wails, the ceaseless sobbing,
that comes in the wind and reminds me
that one spirit is yet seeking mine. I may
open the window, it will be only this night,
like many another ; the wind will rush in
and extinguish the lamp, the rain will
spitefully drench me.

But it, the mystical thing that has power
to torment, this will that forsakes its
habitation and haunts me, will hie away',
and I shall hear it laughing down in
Dapple Wood.

Peggy's interview with the squire,
clinched the matter. They were engaged,
and pledged to enter upon their new
service in a week.

I

It was the season, when through all the land
The merle and mavis build, and building sing
Those lovely lyrics, written by His hand."

In a flutter of joy, I wrote to Mr. Cart-land
and related the event. All seemed
most propitious. We should vacate the
house two days before the sale.

Amongst the good news Peggy had
learnt during her visit to the Manor, was
the fact that the farmhouse was furnished.
It seemed like a fairy story, and yet,
when explained, simple enough.

The family had left in the old house, on

their return to the Manor, such things
as they did not require, and since their
vacation it had always been occupied by
decent people who meddled with nothing,
and managed the dairy and poultry.

The next afternoon brought Mr. Cart-land.
He had sold the jewellery, and
placed the money out, and I might reckon
upon twenty pounds a year.

Eight and four pence a week ! Well,
I should not starve upon that, I should
live and be merry.

His next step was to try and obtain forme,
from the creditors, ray mother s piano
and my father's violin. The poultry was
really mine. His proposal met with immediate
sanction. They had all known
me from my birth, and I might take anything
I valued.

I trespassed upon their generosity sofar

as to include my mother's portrait.
Most of my father's manuscripts I burnt.
His pictures were left to be sold with all else.

Before Mr. Cart! and bade me good-bye,
he gave me a ring out of my mother's
jewellery, which he had very thoughtfully
bought in for me, and a present of five
pounds, to prevent me being quite penniless
for the next few months. So that,
after ail, I left my home in better spirits
than might have been expected.

The first difficulty over, I must try to
meet others heroically, and make my own
way in the world.

By ten o'clock on the Tuesday morning,
the carrier's cart came for the things.
Peggy was already at Upholland ; she
had spent the previous day there. I had
never been inside yet.

Leaving John to see after the things, I

walked on, and shed my tears in private.
Naturally, I felt sad at leaving my home,
but not depressed. Reason told me I had
little to fear, if I exerted myself; that
few had started fairer than I. I was
young, the possessor of ability, health, and
a good stout heart.

At first I might be stinted, but perseverance
and merit would rapidly tide
me over such reasonable obstacles as all
new beginners find in their path, and
I might in time win a moderate competency.


That was about the extent of my ambition.
To live a peaceful life, and die
beholden to no one.

The birds caroled gaily as I mounted
the hill, leaving the village below, and the
old church on my left. Upholland
stood on the crest of the hill, the only

house. Down in the other hollow was
Danver, the smoke from its chimneys
creating a mist on a very fine day. I had
never been there ; it was spoken of as a
thriving, populous town, employing many
hands in a lace factory. Some of the
villagers walked there on Saturdays, by
the meadow-path which was at the bottom
of the slope.

I strained my eyes in the direction of
the town, as I stood before my new home.
I determined to make myself acquainted
with its teaching resources at no late
period.

My heart warmed to the quaint house
with its gables and deep windows. I
lingered a moment by the gate. The scent
from the orchard was delicious, where rows
and rows of fruit-trees stood in various
stages of bloom.

Round one end of the house was a pear-tree,
its long branches stretching right
across in friendly greeting towards the
western, that, like all of its kind, evinced
greedy propensities, and threw out arms
in every direction.

The patch of garden in front betrayed
treasures of many years' growth. There
were quantities of wall-flowers, trees of
lavender, clumps of daffodils, crocuses,
patches of white that, when approached,
turned out to be snowdrops thickly
clustered together.

I recollected how in summer this garden
had enchanted me with its wealth of
flowers. How I had clung to the gate
and longed for some of the big creamy and
ruby roses that drooped in the hot sunshine,
and how Gerard had pulled me
away, and reminded me of the flowers at

home. True, there were flowers at home,
but none to equal these that bloomed on
the hill-top, and caught every freshening
breeze, every gleam of sunlight.

And here it was decreed I should live,
for how long I knew not, or with what
result.

Could I but have known, could the
angel that watched over the flowers in the
garden but have whispered to me of my
fate, I would have passed on without
regret, further from home and all who
knew me, but nearer to — Peace.

1 could hear Peggy busy in the interior.
A fire burned in the room to the left. A
few quick steps brought me to the porch,
a push at the heavy door, and I was inside.

Here I again paused, as I must ask you
to do, reader, while I try to describe the
house.

A round space of no mean extent was
entered upon from the door — it might be
termed hall, or general room. A fireplace
to the left, a wide hearth — protected by a
high brass bound guard — and doors at
various points led into the other portions
of the house. The staircase was fixed in a
corner between two thick walls, and a
window behind the door, with a seat and
cushion, looked into the garden. It was
tiled throughout, and the queerly-shaped
chairs and a table — all black varnish — gave
this place a warm, comfortable aspect, decidedly
pleasing.

In the room where the blaze flickered so
merrily I found Peggy on her hands and
knees.

*' Don't disturb yourself, Peggy ; I
thought I would come on and help you."

*' There is little for anyone to do, Miss

Grace. Them Martins were clean folks —
I'll say that for them. But I am glad you
are come, for I was not knowing what todo.
What do you say for this as your
sitting-room V

I looked round.

It was a long room with a large window,
varnished floor, high wainscoting, and
varnished oak paper. Cupboards filled the
recesses, and an enormous hearth gave
ample promise of warmth. A table and
some straight - backed chairs constituted
the furniture. I thought it magnificent.


Capital, Peggy ! It only wants one or
two things to render it fit for a princess."

*' That's just what I think, Miss Grace ;
and if you have no objection, I advise that
John goes back in the market cart and
buys you a sofa and easy-chairs— your chair

VOL. T. 5

and the black rug and crimson curtains out
of your papa's studio. The things are
sure to go cheap ; and if we get some old-fashioned
chintz, we can cover the chairs
and sofa, and make everything look of a
piece."

To this proposal I readily agreed, and
reflected thankfully upon the comfortable
home Providence had provided for me.

I next proceeded to explore the remainder
of the house.

The kitchen was large and commodious,
looking to the back ; out of it you reached
the other offices and dairy. Before going
upstairs I locked the doors of the empty
rooms downstairs, and placed the keys in
the table drawer in the house place.

I should in all probability never use
those big cold rooms, and once in a way
they could be swept out and aired. Meanwhile

the rats and spiders might hold their
court there, as of yore.

The sleeping-chambers were good-sized,
airy, and dry, and furnished in the heavy,
lumbering style of early days. Many of
the things were out of repair, but Peggy
and I with our needles, and John with his
hammer and glue-pot, would speedily work
a reform.

Tucking up my sleeves, and donning
Peggy's apron, I set to work and cleaned
the windows and furniture.

When the things arrived, they had only
to be put into their places.

John, furnished with money, departed
again immediately, and Peggy and I employed
the interval in liberating the
feathered family, and introducing them to
their new abode.

John was no length of time absent, and

5—2

returned with the articles required, and
the information that the sale was progressing
tolerably well.

Holland is not a speculating place,
and the village people are constant and
steady - going, but neither envious nor
ambitious. Moreover the things in our
house were all worn and subdued in colour,
not calculated to impress country folk with
any degree of — what they so dearly adore
smartness. The additional furniture just
made the necessary alteration in the room,
and I decided that very soon I would have
a day at Danver and buy the chintz.

By dusk all was complete, and, as Peggy
affirmed, we might have been there years.

A woman who is never spoken of is praised the
most."

The first evening in my new home was a
strange one. Countless schemes flitted
across my brain as I paced the room in
the firelight, sometimes stopping to look
into the darkness outside. Fantastic
shapes, weird shadows, the offspring of
my imagination, aided by the light from
the blazing logs, seemed to rise out of the
dark corners and beckon to me.

I stayed to think. Never, very probably,
had the old house sheltered such a
being before. A woman so young, friendless,

and poor. I felt that people might
hesitate to trust me, to credit me with
every virtue ; they would glance suspiciously
at my shabby clothes and darned
gloves.

A lonely woman half implies something
worthless. Some may know that here and
there a solitary deserted life is the ordering
of Providence, and not the result of iniquity
; others neither know nor care, but
under the garb of divinity throw pious
stones, which nearly always hit the mark
aimed at — m ore's the pity !

I marched to and fro, I faced my position
at every angle, and I resolved to make
people, all and each, respect me. Resolution
braced me, nerved my courage, and I
smiled at my cowardly thoughts. They
had all come about through watching the
shadows in the corners.

Quickly I drew the curtain, got my
desk, and wrote a letter to Mr. Cartland,
giving an account of the moving and
settlement at Upholland. This done, I
drew up an advertisement for the Danver
News to this effect :

A lady is qualified to give instruction
in music, piano and violin. — G. S., Up-holland
Farm."

Now I felt a step nearer my object, and
retired to rest. With the birds T was
awake and up. Peggy had just got the
fire lighted, so I undertook to cream the
milk for her, and put the cans ready for
Frank to take down to the Manor.

I liked the work ; the pans of rich
cream invited me to drink, but I refrained
until breakfast should be ready.

My next duty was to feed the fowls,
and make a tour of the place under John's

guidance. The farm-men gaped at me,
and the barn-cats flew helter-skelter into
their holes.

They'll soon get used to you, Miss
Grace," said John, apologetically.

I did not know whether he meant the
men or the cats. Perhaps he feared the
men might put me out of countenance.
He did not know that self-possession
comes to some women very early, and that
modesty and bashfulness are not necessarily
one and the same. A calm dignity of
manner is a birthright, and the absence of
blushes betokens no neutrality.

I judged it as well to make my presence
known then at once, and to go amongst
them.

'eyes," I replied, "and won't it be nice
when the chickens come, and harvest-time
is on, John ?"

I knew I should like this farm-life ; the
constant growth, the activity, the visible
result of labour, all suited me. To be a
farmer, a bread-provider, is a noble calling,
requiring intelligence and keen observation.
Not quite enough is thought of this life.
Towns, with their excitements and more
elegant ways, are preferred by people.
But if anything will elevate a man or
woman, and teach them patience and
reverence, it is living in the midst of God's
works where man's hand has not meddled
or marred.

'are you to have the entire management,
John V

"No, Miss Grace. Mr. Lovering is
reckoned a good hand at it and he took
the first prize last year for the best farm.
I shall carry out his directions."

I made answer, '^ Oh !"

J had never seen Mr. Levering, and felt
no interest in him. I supposed he was a
swell," who rode over his farm on a small
cob, and went shooting with three keepers
in attendance. I wondered whether he
would expect me to curtsey to him when
we met.

A quantity of machinery attracted
my attention. I remarked upon it, and
was informed Mr. Lovering had all the
newest implements. There was an abundance
of everything, and all looked flourishing,
denoting that the hand on the helm
was steady and strong.

It had not the prim, cramped appearance
of a model farm — the gentleman's toy — it
smacked of the homestead deliciously,
and excellently pleased I re-entered the
house.

Breakfast was ready, and with the

window propped open, that I might not
lose one whiff of the fresh April air, I ate
mine.

I was in a hurry to be off, for I intended
exploring Danver that day. By nine
I was ready to start, and obtained directions
as to the road from John. In my pocket
reposed letter and advertisement. The
walk was charming, through fields covered
with daisies and buttercups. Many lambs
frolicked by their mothers, and a running
stream kept me company all the way, and
finally assisted at the working of the lace
factory. It took me an hour sharp walking.
The town-clock struck ten as my feet
rested on the bridge. Crossing it, I
entered into High Street, the principal
thoroughfare of Danver. Here the shops
were excellent, supported by the county
families and rich commoners, whose mansions

stood in most pretentious attitudes
on the outskirts of the town.

I hesitated for a second, and then
entered the largest drapery establishment.
The young men were idling about ; the
elite would not shop before luncheon.
One animal was polite enough to cease in
the midst of the refined practice of picking
his teeth, to inquire what I wanted.

When he heard it was chintz, he almost
swallowed the tooth-pick in consternation,
and in a faint voice ordered ** Jones *'
forward. Jones strained his neck out of
his paper collar and nearly split his ill-fitting
coat in reaching down some rolls.

I selected one, black ground with
poppies, marguerites, roses, birds, clustered
thickly over it. Jones informed me condescendingly
that it was an extremely old-fashioned
pattern, not considered genteel

now. It had been ordered expressly for
Lady Warren's Fancy Dress Ball by Miss
Bedstead, and they had only twelve yards
left.

I concluded he took me for some newly-imported
lady's-maid, and unaccustomed
to the elegant tastes of Danver.

Ignoring his good intentions, I told him
to make it into a parcel, that it would be
sufficient for what I required.

And where shall I send it to 1"

'' Nowhere ; you shall give it tome."


I heard a snigger behind me, and noticed
that my young man's face was a match for
the poppies.

My parcel in my hand, I walked out and
searched for a confectioner s, where I could
get a glass of milk and some information.


I found one opposite the pump ; and
behind the counter a civil person. relieved
to find I had not to deal with
insolence, I ventured to talk, and soon
knew the whereabouts of the News
office.

I thought it expedient to make my
profession known to her, and in return
she informed me there was only one
teacher of any note in Danver, and he
was getting very aged.

This was cheering, and I left my address,
so that she could communicate with
me if she heard of any pupils. As 1
walked on I reflected that if my aristocratic,
diffident father knew I had been
talking amicably with a person in a shop,
and seeking employment openly, he might
be grieved.

Unnatural it may seem, but I experienced

no remorse, even supposing him to
be aware of my doings. Since lie could
selfishly fritter his means and life away —
tranquilly compose himself and die, leavings
me to make the best stand I could
against the world, and obliging me to
fight, I considered that the choice of
weapons was left to myself.

Had I possessed anyone whom I could
have sheltered myself behind, I very probably
should have done it ; but the only
two who cared anything for me were
Peggy and John, and to be beholding to
them for all the needs of life, or accept
my lot as a dairy maid, was quite out of
the question.

Without much trouble I found the
paper office, and paid for the insertion
of the advertisement for a week. It was
now half-past eleven, and having transacted

all my business I turned my steps homewards.


I did not walk so quickly back, and it
was one o'clock when I arrived at Up-holland.


*' Man-like is it to fall into sin,
Fiend like is it to dwell therein,
Christ-like is it for sin to grieve,
God-like is it all sin to leave."

Dinner was over ; but Peggy had some in
the oven for me.

', I'll eat it here, Peggy, and at the same
time talk to you; no one is likely to come in."

No, Miss Grace. Ill set the table in
yonder window, if you like ? All the men
are at work, and John has gone down to
see the sheep, with the master."

Mr. Lovering has been here ?"

VOL. I. 6

'eyes. You had not been gone ten
minutes when he came in."

Did you meet him. Miss Grace ?"

No. I never met a creature until I
got to the bridge at Danver, and there I
met a clergyman."

Peggy burst out laughing,

*' He's no clergyman, isn't the master.
He comes out with good round oaths when
things don't work to suit him."

For the want of something better to say,
I asked : " Is Mr. Lovering old ? and what
family is there V

Old ! He is about forty-two, and a
bachelor. They're one of the oldest and
biggest families hereabouts. They are all
dead, married, or lost, now, but three :
Mr. Lovering, and Miss Naomi, and Miss
Miriam. They live together at the
Manor."

*dull for Miss Naomi and Miriam, shut
up with an elderly brother."

Why, he is the youngest by many a
year. Miss Naomi and Miriam are twins,
and the Burst born. Mr. William is one of
the youngest and best."

'best !" T repeated.

** Well, the Loverings are called a wild,
bad lot by many people ; and this one was
a fine rover at one time. Though he has
been steadier these last ten or twelve years,
people haven't forgot what he once was,
Miss Grace."

Is he pleasant-mannered, Peggy ?"

'' To some people very, and to others a
beast, begging your pardon, missis."

** Where do they go to church T was my
next question ?"

Holland. Mr. Levering goes seldom ;
and the Manor pew was not in sight

6—2

of yours. He did not ask for you, Miss
Grace ; but I noticed him looking and
listening all the time he was giving me
orders about the dairy."

** How gratifying !" 1 remarked.

I was tired of the topic, and unwilling
that it should be prolonged.

Peggy's mention of church reminded me
that I had no longer a pew there. Not a
particle of regret did it cause me. Never
was anyone less inclined for public worship
than I.

My experience of the ministry was
limited to one of the most unpopular of
men. I do not wish to say he was not a
good man, but he lacked zeal and power of
expression. A prayer from his lips lost
all fervency, and a nursery rhyme would
have moved me as much.

My father did without anyone's intercession,

save mine. We said the Lord's
Prayer together, and the Amen stole his
hist breath av/ay, T never heard that my
mother was prayed for, and I know no
one came to nurse. When in trouble I had
not sent for Mr. Duckworth.

The kind old doctor had clapped me
encouragingly on the back when he left mein
the house with my dead ; and there
sympathy with outsiders ended.

My life promised to be too energetic to
tint appreciation in their apathetic natures.
Holland and I had parted company.

Peggy's voice lifted in song told me her
whereabouts, and I followed. I had much
to arrange with the worthy dame.

*' You look all the better for your
dinner. Miss Grace. John was saying today
that we must mind and feed you welland
not let you eat as we do."

'* You are to do nothing of the kind,
Peggy. I will have no difference made
until I am in a position to pay more.
And now I have a fancy to be useful, and
Avill help you with the poultry and dairy.
My time is at present unoccupied, and I
shall attend to the milk night and morning,
and make the butter."

*' You dairymaid, Miss Grace !"

Why not ? Labour is no disgrace,
especially when it is necessary. Peggy, I
oriust work. I am not going to be a reproach
to my father's memory by betraying
how poor he left his only child. I
hope and believe I shall obtain pupils, and
earn sufficient for my simple wants. If I
cannot do that here I shall go elsewhere."


'* You'll get them fast enough. Miss
Grace, never fear. You are one of the

real workers, you are. You would always
be doings something when a child. Little
I thought things would have come to this.
But we won't complain. You set me and
my old man a good example. John says
you hearten him up."

I laughed, and very well pleased, left
Peggy. No compliment couched in the
most graceful terms could have afforded
me sincerer pleasure.

To make the two old creatures happy
about me was my first desire ; to relieve
them of all sense of responsibility I knew
was in a manner my duty.

They grudged nothing for me ; they
would have fed me with their last mouthful.
Could any display of courage or
cheerfulness repay such noble devotion ?
Scarcely.

Set not too high a value on your own abilities."

With Peggy's help the chintz was cut and
sewn, and my room presented as good
an appearance as I could desire. My
advertisement had elicited no reply as yet ;
but then it had only been in four days. I
had two more, and who could foretell what
they might bring forth ? It is frequently
the case, relief comes at the ninth
hour.

May was just out, spring had set in, and
the maple tree was a mass of blossom.
Beneath its shade was a tiny calf, put

there by John to take its first airing insight
of the dairy-door.

I felt drawn to that calf ; it had cost its
mother her life, as I did mine. When it
lowed more than usual I went out and
comforted it, kissed its hard red head, and
called it " Suckle, suckle."

I was standing there, half covered with
maple blossoms, when I heard a footfall
on the stones, and looking out, spied the
postman. The letter was for me. An
answer to my advertisement.

Little information could I extract from
the epistle, for it simply stated that Mrs.
Winter, of the Red House, Danver, would
like to see G. S. before twelve the following
day.

Not a word did I say to Peggy, feeling
by no means sure it might not end in disappointment.


The mornings was fine and rather windy,
scattering the blossom alon the road,
and blowing sweet scents from far-off
gardens.

Danver reached, I inquired for the Red
House, and found it.

Mrs. Winter was at home, the butler
said, and I awaited her appearance in the
elaborate drawing-room. I had time to
make a nice calculation as to the cost of
everything therein, and how long each
would suffice to maintain me in ease and
affluence. Then followed the well-worn
regret that money should be so unequally
divided, and the comforting assurance that
*' It is easier for a camel to go through the
eye of a needle than for a rich man to
enter the kingdom of heaven."

A rustle caused me to turn. Mrs.
Winter was behind me. One glance was

sufficient to tell me we were not of the
same order.

She was stout, tolerably good-looking,
and unquestionably crafty. Her greedy
eyes appraised my garments instantly.
Inexpensive they were, but neatly made,
and well worn.

I could tell what was passing through
her mind. Would I be likely to accept
her terms, or insist upon my own ?

With many smiles she explained to me
that it was for her step-daughter a musical
governess was required. They wished to
perfect a visible talent, and have her
taught three days a week for two hours.
To what end ? That, when old enough,
she might be pushed out into the world to
earn her own living, and leave more for
the little cherubs this woman would introduce
into the household.

She asked me to play. I did so. Then
to sing. I complied.

Yes, she was perfectly satisfied, and
what were my terms ?

I stated them, fixing a reasonable sum,
and requesting her influence to procure
more pupils.

Very graciously she assented, and I
pledged myself to be there every Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday by ten o'clock.

My feet scarcely touched the ground
going home. I rejoiced thoroughly. The
news caused Peggy again to declare her
firm opinion that I should do well, and
afterwards to consider what a tax it would
be upon my health during the bad
weather.

"Peggy," I called one afternoon,
-Peggy!"

No answer.

Dropping my work, I went in search of
her, and, reaching the kitchen, heard her
voice in hio^h altercation with some one in a
shed across the yard.

I needed her, and so I followed.

There stood Peggy, angry, flushed, a
teapot with a lump of sponge to its spout
hanging in one hand, and dribbling a
stream of liquid on to the floor.

It's just a peck of rubbish, John, trying
to rear these things ; there's more
time and milk wasted than they are worth.
They may as well die now, for that's
what they are bent upon doing in the long-run."


Pressing close up to them, I saw three
tiny lambs lying on some straw in the
corner.

What are they ?" I inquired.

'* We call them hog-lambs, Miss Grace''

replied John. ^' Their dam is dead, and I
want to keep them alive if possible. But
they're a goodish bit of trouble, and Peggy,
here, does not seem to like it."

Nay, nay, John, it's not the trouble,
though there's a good bit of that ; but I
have no time to bother after suchlike."


Let me take them in hand," I cried.
*' If I can rear them so much the
better."

'' But they are Mr. Lovering's lambs.
Miss Grace," said Peggy, " and I don't see
what call you have to bother after his
things."

*not the very least bit in the world,
my good woman. 1 am actuated by a desire
to keep the poor things alive now they
are in the world, not partiality towards
the owner, whom, to my knowledge, I

have never seen. What becomes of the
sheep ? Sold ?"

'* Yes, to butchers. They are going
soon ; the master told me he did not intend
to keep so many. It is just a pity
these three can't be got up to killing
size."

Well, console yourself, John, I am
going to try. Mr. Lovering cannot object
since it will put more money into his
pocket, and that is what people mostly
care about."

Quite correct," laughed a voice from
behind.

I turned, and quickly perceived by the
abashed countenances of Peggy and John
that it was the master.

I am not naturally bashful, and not
behoof caught at a disadvantage, I did not
feel ashamed, but rather amused.

Well, I see you are the master of the house ;
I will accommodate myself to you."

Fear not, reader ; I am not going into a
lengthy description of Mr. Lovering. He
would not repay either me for the trouble
of writing, or you for the reading. Any
day in the week you may meet a much
better-looking person.

He is just a well-formed, strong man of
about forty, more intelligent than beautiful.


Do you mind ?" I asked, having my
object uppermost in my brain.

Mind what ?" he questioned, lifting
his hat in good style, and looking at me
intently.

If I try to rear these lambs V
No. You may try and welcome, upon
one condition."
What is that V

That you sell them for your own
benefit."

'^ I cannot do that."
And why not ?"

Because they must be fed on your
milk, and it does not suit me to be indebted
to you, Mr. Levering."

*' Indeed I You are independent, and I
am not sure that I don't like you all the
better for it. But that difficulty can
easily be remedied. Miss Sharland. Give
me one lamb for the keep of the other
two."

VOL. I. 7

This project seemed reasonable, and I
acquiesced.

Peggy and John had withdrawn, and I
hoped my landlord would follow. He did
not. Leaning against the doorpost, he
eyed me, and watched with malicious
delight my fruitless efforts with my new
charges.

They wriggle-waggled their tails and
bleated, drink they would not. I wondered
whether they objected to him. I
know I did. Moreover I could feel my
ears getting rosy. I never did like being
watched, especially by grey eyes. A sigh
of vexation and irritation escaped me.

"Are you repenting of your bargain.
Miss Sharland V

No," retorted I vehemently, " I never
repent; particularly after agreeing in a
calm moment."

You were perfectly composed when we
discussed the subject, then ?"

'* Certainly."

*' Nay," he replied, smiling from ear to
ear, possessing an enormous mouth, " don't
look a challenge at me I I never contradict
a lady, and I quite thought you
were cool. How do you like being here 1"
he continued, breaking in upon my struggles
with the lambs.

Very much. If I did not like it, I
should stay all the same, to give it a
trial."

"What do you mean by 'it,* may I
inquire V

Oh yes, you may ask ; but it is left tome
whether I answer."

That means you won't answer ?"

Nothing of the kind. Just wait till I
have conquered this one, then I will talk."

7—2

Two were sucking bravely, and the third,
seeing how kindly its relations took to
the sponge, proved now willing enough to
learn.

Of the quantity they were to have, I
was judge ; and presently chucked the
milky sponge out of the eager mouth.

'' I congratulate you, Miss Sharland.
Your perseverance is tremendous. Have
you yet christened them V

"No."

*' Then let it be done at once. Name
them."

"March, April, May."

March, April, May, so be you for ever
and aye," said he, and seizing the milk-can,
launched the remainder at them.

His amused countenance, excited manner,
puzzled me. His mood was a strange
one.

I am waiting for you to speak, Miss
Sharland."

'* Would ycu like to come in and rest,
sir V

"Thank you. Are you comfortable
here ?" he questioned, when seated.

Quite ; but, as I told you in the shed,
I am bound to try it."

*' Why r

For a livings. I am obliged to work,
and T fancy working here."

To be near your friends, I suppose ?"
I have none save Peggy and John.
No, that is not the reason, people make
little difference to me. It is the place I
like."

I understand. Some day you will
change, and a person will make all the
difference to you. Meanwhile you are
trying how you can amass a fortune ?"

I am trying how I can save myself
the misery of taking a situation as governess
in some upstart's house. I have a
horror of it I"

So have I — for you."

"What do you know about me, Mr.
Lovering T

^' Little — very little ; but enough to
enable me to decide that the position of a
menial in a stranger's house would never
suit you."

I made no reply. I was not quite
pleased that a stranger should so easily
discover my weak point — the one loose
joint in the armour. The knowledge of
it had fretted me not a little. I looked
upon it as a misfortune, for it narrowed
my sphere of action considerably.

I could not live with strangers and keep
in health. The daily labour for so many

hours cost me no effort, I knew when the
release came. But protract that time,
unite the nights to the days, and my
spirits flagged, my courage failed. Freedom,
liberty of thought and action, I must have,
if I would keep sane.

'' And how are you getting on, Miss
Sharland ?"

Excellently, so far. I am satisfied
and thankful. That hideous monster,
Want,' is receding before my efforts,
and in its stead comes gentle Prosperity."

Is it rude to ask where you go, and
what you do, when you march off in the
direction of Danver V

I laughed.

How stupid of me ! I forgot it was
all Dutch to you, Mr. Lovering. I am
so used to living with people who know
all about me, that explanation is quite

unnecessary, hence my omission. I teach
music, piano and violin. I have an engagement
three mornings a week at Mrs.
Winter's, and I have two other pupils of
inferior grade for the afternoons. They
do not pay so much as Miss Winter, but
every Httle helps, and I am determined
to get pupils anywhere I can. I must
and will succeed I"

I believe you," he replied, with sparkling
eyes. ** Keep up your courage, Miss
Sharland ; you ivill succeed I"

Lutheran, Popish, Calvinistic, all these creeds and
doctrines three
Extant are; but still the doubt is, where Christianity
may be."

So ended my first interview with Mr.
Lovering.

I watched him walk down the road, a
pleasant smile still hovering round his
mouth, his great, square shoulders rising
above heroes that seemed well enough
grown themselves. He was a fine man,
muscular, not fleshy ; when younger, very
active; and even now retaining in a remarkable

degree that elasticity one rarely sees
in a man above thirty.

The affability of the master made an
extraordinary impression upon John and
Peggy, and when, being at a loss to account
for their state of mind, I instituted
a cautious inquiry, I found that he was
voted the reverse of pleasant-mannered
as a rule.

My lambs came on with the summer.
They throve apace, and frolicked amongst
the daisies in capital health and spirits.
My plans had turned out successful ; if
only my actual labour proved as satisfactory,
little cause could I ever have for
complaint.

Into Holland I had never been since I
left it. I had stayed away from church,
and no one had taken the trouble to
inquire the cause. Once Mrs. Duckworth

had called, and then her amazement had
so exceeded .the bounds of Christianity
and politeness that I was disgusted.

My appearance astonished her. She
had no idea I was so comfortable. Could
not have supposed the house contained a
room so spacious. Her lynx-eyes fastened
themselves upon my face, as if to read
there my present life, my means of existence,
my possible future. I concluded she
was satisfied, for she asked me to call,
and murmured something about Amy and
Alice, whom she had prudently left in the
lane while she came to reconnoitre.

My heart warmed to that noble woman,
my joy moved me so that I laughed when
I recollected the chilly clasp of her hand,
the suspicion that lurked in her eye, the
encouragement she had given, the comfort
she had left me. A beggarly tract, an in-suit

in itself — the history of a girl, lost,
betrayed, who had lived accursed and died
unforgiven.

Fair prophetess ! did she fancy in the
purity of her imagination that she saw a
finger beckoning me downwards to hell ?
Did she flatter herself that '^ Strayed from
the Fold " would arrest my progress by its
indecent disclosures and horrible predictions
?
Possibly.

It is to be regretted she did not return
another day, she might have noticed a ball
of paper lying in the dusty road.

No bread is so sweet as that worked for;
no food nourishes like that earned by daily
patient labour. The business of life brings
its own joys and reward,

I began to understand this. My health
was perfect, my spirits equal; an unceasing

source of contentment dwelt in my heart,
and diffused happiness through my Use.
Something had been given unto me that no
change in the weather, no person had
power to take from me. As Hight-hearted
as the birds that sang above my head, I
traversed the fields and lanes, fresh ideas,
fresh hopes contentedly flowing from the
well of happiness in my heart.

My pupils came on, my income increased;
friendly nods, kindly words, were vouchsafed
to me from doorways and passers-by.
Trifles to those surrounded by relations,
and sheltered by loving arms ; enormities
to one alone, unknown, struggling up a
rocky path.

Hay-time had come.

Men toiled in the hot meadows all day

long, tossing the scented herbage lightly,

and wafting its odour into the wind. My

road lay right amongst the harvest-land,
acres of waving grain bursting into ear
and promising full granaries when the
time should come. Fields of beans in
flower, with myriads of tiny birds dwelling
therein, and waging hot warfare with the
grubs.

Hot, shadeless, scarcely bearable, but
for the running stream, clear and cool,
abounding in stones, moss-covered and
soft, where one could sit and feel the
delicious refreshment of flowing water
over fevered, blistered feet.

•* Through the closed blinds the golden sun
Poured in a dusty beam,
Like the celestial ladder seen
By Jacob in his dream."

It is half-pasfc three. One panting,
parched dog is lying against the pump in
High Street, silently beseeching water.
No one responds ; no one sees the dumb
thing's need ; no one is out.

The sun-blinds are closely drawn over
the shop-windows, and a few imprisoned
larks, with brown sods in their tiny cages,
beat their wings in misery at the bars, and

crave liberty. Their plumage is ruffled,
their throats thicken and throb as they
shriek out their anguish, and their gaolers
call it a song, and think it is for joy they
do it.

One belongs to the chemist, and lives in
the balcony beside a dwarf fir-tree, that
had figured at a Christmas-party so effectively
loaded with presents. Another is
the property of the draper's son, who is
at present stretched comfortably full length
on the sofa inside, listening to the rapturous
uttering of a creature God made only to
sing in freedom.

I cannot reach the birds, but I can the
dog.

My cashmere boots are white with dust,
my calico gown hangs over my arm, my
hat shelters my face. I am sick and tired,
and the great iron pump-handle is wonder



fully weighty. The dog looks eagerly into
my face as the tiny stream — owing to my
weakness — trickles into the tin dish below.
Suddenly a hand is laid on the handle —
higher than mine — and up and down it
goes, while the water gushes out and runs
over into the dusty street.

It is a strong brown hand, not perfectly
clean, any more than the cuff that appears
below the brown coat-sleeve. This colour
appeals to my eye in a friendly manner,
and tilting up my hat I look into the ugly
amused face of Mr. Lovering.

He bursts out laughing.

What are you laughing at ?" I inquire
tartly. The heat had not improved my
temper.

*' You," he replied shortly, and in nowise
abashed.

*' Then I fancy you might find a more

VOL. L 8

fitting object to laugh at than a fellow-creature
in a state of utter weariness, with
the blood beating in her brain like a
hammer. Can you find nee the ladle, that
I may drink ?"

*' No. Come with me''

I drew back. His hand grasped my
arm, and I found I was being drawn along
the shady side of the street.

^*Mr. Levering, where are you taking
me?"

"Where you may have a drink, Miss
Sharland."

It never occurred to me to resist. I
liked the firm pressure of his hand — it infused
new vigour, confidence, into my feeble
heart. I liked the quiet tone of command
that became him so well.

'* Mind the steps."

I lifted my tired feet obedient to the

bidding, and, helped considerably by the
guiding hand, succeeded in mounting safely
the twelve steps up to the old-fashioned
Cock and Trumpet Inn.

The room was cool, and darkened by
green' blinds. I sank gratefully enough
into a chair, and heard indistinctly Mr.
Lovering's voice talking to somebody. It
seemed like a dream. Two seconds ago
I was struggling along the street in the
broiling sun, now I am sitting at ease in

I the shade.

I came in the nick of time, Miss
Sharland."

II I looked up and smiled. I felt ashamed
of my late petulance.

y " In time for what, sir V

I " Never mind now ; I see you are better

'already. Drink this."

It was something sparkling and sharpy
8—2

with lumps of ice floating in it. My experience
of wines was too limited to enable
me to give it a name ; but I drank of sit
thankfully.

I revived. The beverage cooled, allayed
my thirst, and stilled my pulse. I bethought
myself of moving on. I rose and
held out my hand.

"Good-bye, sir; and thank you very
much''

He neither moved nor spoke; just
looked at me with his deep grey eyes. I
wondered how long he was going to look.

I repeated my speech.

You don't thank me a bit," he retorted,
or you would not be in such a hurry to
leave me."

*' But I have to go home."

So have I."

I waited in perplexity.

<^ Go— why don't you ?"
*' Because it is unseemly to leave one,
who has befriended me, in anger."

'^ Oh, I am glad to find there is at least
one spark of gratitude in your cold heart.
Would you mind, Miss Sharland, if I
retracted the word ' gratitude,' and substituted
for it ' affection ' ?"

'^ Xo, sir. But I would remind you
that the supposed existence of the affectionis
entirely a surmise of your own."

Cool, upon my soul I Then you dort
feel it r

'' Not in the least."
He jumped up, and stamped.
"A moment, if you please, Miss Shetland.
Will you explain to me the difference
between affection and gratitude.
Perhaps you will deny feeling the latter
for me 1"

*' No ; 1 do feel grateful. You did mea
good service, and I tender you the usual
payment — thanks. I shall always remember
it with gratitude."

** While you say that word, how do you
feel r

** Kindly - disposed towards you —
pleased."

Then you experience an emotion of
the heart — and affection is an emotion of
the heart. Miss Sharland, beware of
gratitude ; it is a subtle thing. You sow
the seed of gratitude, and sooner or
later there blooms the flower of — affection."


I cannot agree with you, Mr. Lovering.
I must repeat, that I am in little danger of
entertaining that feeling for you."

*' Spare my sensibilities, Miss Sharland.
Respect my judgment ; consider my fears.

and consequent experience of things in
general, humanity in particular."

No, sir, I won't promise to respect
your judgment before I know whether you
are competent to pass it. And your years
entitle you to no consideration unless
you have used them properly, and profited
by the opportunities they afforded

you."

*' You are not convinceable, nor ready to
adopt untested measures. You are hard
of belief, and cautious."

'' Two excellent assistants towards making
a safe journey through life."

I could wish that at your age I had
been like you, young lady. My opinion
of the matter you repudiate. How are
you going to decide it V

"It will decide me. My own experience
will assert your statement to be either the

truth or false, so that when I have Heed
your length of life I shall have an opinion
of my own, and need not be indebted to
anyone for theirs."

Very good ; perhaps I will ask you to
favour me with it some day. You may as
well sit down ; I have not told them to put
the horses in yet."

That signifies little to me. Beggars
must walk."

To-day you shall ride. Humour me ;
it is my wish that you ride. I am an excellent
whip ; you may in all safety trust that
white neck of yours to me."

It was useless to resist ; besides, it
would have been ungracious and prudish
to refuse.

Dream that the golden summer

In winter hath no part ;
Dream that the skies are cloudless,

And light in every heart ;
Dream that the laugh of pleasure

Has never sigh of pain,
But endless is in measure,

As joys that come again."

As you will, this time, Mr. Levering. I
am naturally obedient. Moreover, the
temptation of getting home without exertion
is a great one to me."

*' But you won't get home without
exertion. I shall require you to talk —

talk incessantly, for my benefit and amusement."


'' Upon what subject, sir ? I am little
likely to entertain you."

*' On the contrary ; you are very likely
to do it. I am remarkably entertained
now — never was better so in my life.
Where have you lived ?'

At home in Holland."

Who taught you 1"

My father ?"

^' Umph ! Knew your father. You are
not like him, and your opinions are not
the reflection of his. What have you
read r

I laughed at the recollection of the
queer literature I had digested with such
appetite.

'* Why do you laugh V*

Because your question amuses me."

Stop I I see mutiny in your eye. You
are not going to answer it T

'' I am not."

You say to yourself, * He has no right
to ask it' ?"

I do."

He turned his back upon me, thrust his
hands into his pockets, and began to
whistle.

I am sorry if I have vexed you," I
said presently.

Are you ?"

He darted round, his face beaming wonderfully.
His eyes searched mine, and I
/^as at that time able to raise them innocently
enough to his countenance. I conclude
he did not find what he sought
therein, for he again treated me to a
survey of his broad flat back, with his
arms hooked behind his stick in an excellent

attitude for displaying his breadth of
chest.

At the end of five minutes he inquired
in a totally different voice :

How are your lambs 1"

'^ Well, and ready for killing, John says."

What are you going to do about
them r

^' Nay, what are you going to do 1
They are yours."

'' Are they ? Then I shall sell two, and
give you one."

** Who are you going to find to buy
them ?"

** A butcher. 1 shall consult John and
Peggy; they know all about such things."

Do you need the money, Miss Shetland
?"

My breath deserted me at such a question.


*' Need the money ! I should think I
did."

Don't look so indignant. How should
I know about your affairs ?"

How, indeed I Perhaps my indignation
was due to another cause — your asking
such a question."

I beg your pardon. I will not ask
such another, ever again."

The carriage is ready," said a smart
barmaid pertly, at the door, eyeing Mr.
Lovering with an inquisitive stare that
made my heart beat.

Me she ignored ; possibly knew me as a
music governess, and balanced her position
to some advantage against mine.

** Will you come, Miss Sharland V he
said, in a tone so frozen that I glanced into
his face to see how much I had hurt
him.

It was bound up hard and fast ; not a
trace of any feeling was discernible.

I began to dread the drive.

The carriage proved to be a mail-phaeton.


I think I had better help you' said
the master.

And the next moment I was lifted in
like a baby.

I could have got in," I remarked, as we
dashed down the street.

Very likely," came the cold response.
Would you rather have been behind with
Joseph ?"

You never asked me."

No ; because I feared you would say
yes,' and I wanted you here."

Pity you sacrificed your manners to
your desire, for I would not have sat
behind. You told me I was to talk to you."

Did I 1 Then please to go on."

** Tell me where you are driving to V

'' Upholland — presently. Are yqu in a
hurry ?"

"No."

^' Are you uncomfortable ?"

'' No,"

Nor am I. Things are just now going
pleasantly enough with me. How are they
with you ?"

Excellently. I like being here."

I spoke the truth. It was like a dream,
but I was happy and at rest for the time
being, though I knew my vision would
flee directly I set foot on the ground.
Thj.t, however, it did not appear I should
do for some little while.

We flew along, making and meeting the
only breath of air I had felt all the hot
day. Certainly the dust flew in clouds

behind us, and probably annoyed Joseph.
I very selfishly determined to make the
most of my own rare pleasure and importance,
mounted aloft beside that bi,
peculiar man, for whom I felt no fear, and
considerable interest.

He, by his own conduct, had excited it.
All my life I had never coaxed anyone
to go out of their way for my amusement
or benefit. This man had troubled himself
about me in a fashion novel enough to be
charming.

Do you know where you are ?" he
asked presently, looking down at me.

"No. I am very ignorant of the country.
While papa lived, I never went far,
because he could not spare me ; and nurse
was not equal to walking any great distance.
Now that I am alone, I have no
time or inclination."

** You are tired when you get home ?"
'' Very ; sometimes I ache all over."
I knew he turned to look at me, a rare
pitying glance, and very likely it was
deserved. I did look small in my plain
calico gown, and my tiny dusty feet swinging
a quarter of a yard off the floor.

At the top of a hill he drew up. I
was artist enough to derive pleasure from
the view that burst upon me. We had
been traversing a road deeply wooded on
each side, where the rabbits lay sheltered
by the ferns and trees from the glare of
the sun.

Some we had effectually startled, and in
hot haste they had scudded down the road
before us, enveloped in a small cloud of
dust. Here, where we stood, the trees
were thinner, and showed a red-stone
house in the hollow, its park and grounds

VOL. I. 9

arranged round it in quiet dignity, as if
they and it had held their position together
for many a generation.

Further on was a village, half hidden
by the sun, and a church spire trying to
reach the rays of brightness that poured
down and transformed all it touched into
gold.

'' Why, that must be Holland !" I exclaimed.


'^ It is Holland ; and that is the
Manor''

*' I should like to see the gardens some
day."

Any day you choose. Shall I come
for you ?"

*' Oh no ! I spoke on the spur of the
moment."

Not always a good habit, Miss Shetland,
but one becoming to you."



I saw that I amused him, as a child
might, perhaps. Still I had the power
to make his stern face soften, and the
determined mouth curl itself into winning
smiles, and I was glad. Why was I
glad ?

9—2

I know of nothing that lasts, not 1,

Save a heart that is true to its love alway,
A love that is won with tear and sigh,

And never changes or fades away,
In a breast that is oftener sad than gay ;

A tender look and a constant mind —
These are the only things that stay :

All else flits past on the wings of the wind."

Through Holland we drove, the people
came out of the shops and cottages to
gaze, and I saw a deeper tinge of colour
mount into the brown cheeks.

The old house did not look much the
same. The new tenant had painted it
up and refined the gate. There was

I

an air of flowing prosperity about it it
had not had in my poor feeble father's
time.

'^ Are you grieving, looking back ?"

'^ No. I never look back ; and I cannot
wish for a return of misery and suffering
for others, even to procure happiness for
myself"

But you hope for a happier future for
yourself? You have your dreams, have
you not ?"

I was silent. God alone knew how my
childish, girlish imagination had gilded my
life, conjured up bliss, complete, infinite !
How alone in my bed I had listened to
my father playing on his violin, and woven
the sweet strains in With my life. How
my idol had grown as I grew; and lo !
one day I awoke to find it shattered at
my feet !

True, I had a home, but how different
a one from that which fancy pictured !
The charm had dissolved, fancy could never
again play me a trick, and the knowledge
was not pleasant.

^* Were you happy at home V questioned
my charioteer.

I considered. My life had been so
queer, so anxious from a child, that the
sole care of myself now weighed light as
air compared to what the care of others
had done. A sudden knock at the door
did not drive the blood from my cheek
now ; I dreaded no one ; I was, and I
blush to own it, happier and less anxious
than I had ever been before.

He was expecting to be answered.

*eyes, I suppose I was happy; but I
am happier now, and more contented."

He smiled.

Did you ever see me. Miss Shetland
r

*' Never, that I remember; therefore I
am pretty sure I never did see you."

'^ I believe you. Church, I conclude,
was the only likely place, and there I do
not often go."

Very probably he thought I would make
some remark expressive of proper horror
at such a confession.

I could not. My own short experience
had been bitter. I had learned that there
were two religions — one for the rich, one
for the poor, and unless you could pander
to the clergyman's stomach or vanity, your
soul might go at its own pace to the devil.

Not being hysterical and inclined to
bow down and adore a fellow-creature,
who for aught I knew was no better,
perhaps not so good, as myself, and not

having a cellar or a qualified cook, I was
just left to hunger and thirst for the
spiritual consolation which the Lord commands
all His priests to offer to every
member of their flock without distinction.


Setting aside his ministerial duties, Mr.
Duckworth had not even given me the
protection and support which any man —
worthy of the name — is expected to accorda
poor and defenceless woman. All hail
to that high-born gentleman, that generous
soul, that Pharisaical parson, who, seeing
a fellow-creature's need, quietly passes by
on the other side. Can anyone but .admire
and reverence such a character —
such an example — such a caricature of a
parish priest ? Who would not get to
heaven under such a leader 1

We mounted the hill; every yard brought

me nearer home ; and I had so enjoyed
the drive.

We approached the old house ; we
stopped before the gate, and Joseph sprang
down.

I sighed as I rose and prepared to
aught. That, however, I was not permitted
to do by means of the steps
placed there for that purpose. I was
gently lifted in Mr. Lovering's arms, and
set down in the garden by the roses.

I had words of thanks on my lips,
when, hastily raising his hat, he sprang
up and drove off.

What a mannerless prig !" I half
i^iered, in vexation. ^' Why could he not
have parted from me with, at least, the
ordinary custom '?"

Did he repent his act of kindness, and
fear I should presume or misconstrue his

motive ? No. He is too good a judge of
character not to see that I am as proud as
I am poor.

Peggy opened the door.

I am glad you got a lift home, Miss
Grace ; you look pale enough, anyway.
Your tea is ready, and there is some fresh
fish in. Could you eat a bit V

'^ Not now, Peggy ; at supper I may.
I care little to eat, this hot weather."

I drew my chair close to the open
window. The sun had hidden his blazing
face, a faint breeze blew gently amongst
the parched flowers, and raised their
drooping heads.

I was very weary in body, fresh enough
in mind, and on the whole satisfied and
thankful.

If only he had said '' good-bye," and not
left me without a word. Why would he

not let me thank him ? I was troubled
and annoyed with myself for allowing so
trifling a matter to absorb so much of my
time. There was every need that I should
up and bestir myself

My pupils were on the increase, consequently
I might expect a greater demand
upon my capabilities. I must practise.
My piano was dear to me. My mother
had bought it, and, like her, it was sound,
good at the core. Its tones, ripe, rich,
awoke rare thoughts and much joy in my
heart. I turned to it now, and speedily
forgot my silly regret.

** Dreams of the summer night !
Tell her, her lover keeps
Watch ; while in slumbers light
She sleeps !
My lady sleeps !
Sleeps !"

At nine Peggy called me into the hall to
supper. I liked eating in there, especially
this close weather. That despatched, I
returned to my music, and at eleven I
went to rest. The pretty, cool, white bed
lulled me to slumber, and when the sun
rose and rudely looked in at the open
window, I awoke from a dream that

I

haunted my memory all that day and
many a one after.

J was free that Thursday, able to help
Peggy and amuse myself. John had gone
out when I inquired for him. The hay
was not all in, and, as Peggy expressed it,
there was not " a man about the place todo
a single thing. Rap and I had it to
ourselves all yesterday, and I was right
glad to have the dog. A body might be
murdered, and every stick stolen out of
the house before they came in from the
meadows."

I assented, but failed to see any likelihood.
Rap appeared a very efficient
bodyguard as he lay stretched on the
stones, watching me mix the meal for the
poultry. It was ready now, and armed
with a wooden spoon, and displaying a
considerable portion of ankle, I turned to

serve it to the crowing, cackling, twittering
flock.

My three lambs came capering up,
rigging their short tails gleefully. They
regarded me as a mother, a piece of
preference I was proud of. Had I not
soothed them with milk and kind words ?
had I not scratched their hard woolly
heads with all a mothers fondness and
more patience ?

*' Peggy I" I called, as I saw her high
cap through the dairy casement. *tell
John I want to sell these lambs, — that is,
two ; the other is Mr. Lovering's — and he
will oblige me by speaking to the butcher
when he comes."

*' He is coming to-day, Miss Grace."

"So much the better."

While the fowls stuffed and squabbled
over their food, of which the turkey-cock

got considerably more than his share, I
gathered the eggs and scorched my face
the while.

The only interruption through the long
hot morning was the demand for beer, and

the clash of the cans on the slab bv the

«/

"keep-room" door. When Peggy was
busy I served it, evidently to Frank's
amusement. At half-past ten Frank had
a new cry :

"Please, mum, the gaffer says Avill you
send him some bread-and-cheese and a
drink of milk '?"

The gaffer T I repeated ; " who is he V

Frank's eyes danced.

"Mr. Lovering."

Oh !"

Amazement tethered my tongue. Assuredly
Peggy must minister to Ms
needs.

Peggy, come here ; you are wanted.
Frank has a message from Mr. Lover.


Peggy bounced in Uke lightning.

Now don't say it's three pints of extra
cream as is wanted by Mrs. McGlockhn
for the folks at the Manor, because they
can't have it. The master knows that
Nancy is dead, and left us a calf to keep,
taking eight quarts of milk, and we missing
her twenty-eight."

She paused, defiant and breathless. The
lad grinned provokingly.

It ain't not about cream. The gaffer
wants something to eat and drink : he's
out yon in the meadows."

Did the master send you here ? Don't
you think now it was to the Manor he sent
you, and you want to save your legs. Idle-bones
?"

^' No, I don't ; he told me to come to the
farm, and get it from you''

*' Well, there's nothing but cheese or
butter," replied the good woman in perplexity.


I laughed. Did she suppose he fed any
differently to other people, though he was
rich and peculiar ?

Send some of both, Peggy. Here,
while you draw the beer, I'll cut the
bread."

I cut some tolerably thick slices, and
spread the rich fresh butter liberally ; then
I lapped one over the other, and placed it in
the small fruit-basket. No cheese could I
find, so I, on my own responsibility, cut a
good-sized piece out of a fruit pasty, and
put it in along with the bread. I had
learnt to be quick and neat-handed at an
early age, and since my residence at Up-vol.

I. 10

holland there had been numerous opportunities
of increasing my proficiency.

*' What are you looking for, Peggy ?" I
inquired, as I heard her going hither and
thither, fuming under her breath.

** A jug, Miss Grace. John knocked
the handle off the little blue one last night,
taking it to the well instead of a can, and
now there is nothing to send the master
his milk in."

*' Take the glass one ; it is in the far
cupboard."

"Yours, that you brought home last
week, Miss Grace !" she exclaimed ?

'' Yes. Stay, Peggy," replied I, checking
the indignant torrent that I saw rising
to her lips. " Mr. Lovering must have
the milk, and there is no other suitable
jug, so you have no choice but to send
it."

*' I suppose not," she retorted irefully,
^' and all along of that man of mine."

Frank loaded and started, with many
injunctions to mind the jug, as it was
Miss Sharland's, and we lapsed into our
former quietude.

la— 2

What am 1 1
Why, a pigmy among giants T'

How hot it was I how the sun poured in
at every door and window, despite the
blinds. My thin dress clung round me
niy legs tottered.

I wanted to drink. Taking a goblet, I
passed out to the well, where the water,
clear as crystal, was ever cold.

Midway I paused. There sat Peggy,
trim and comely, fast asleep between two
empty milk-crocks, with one of honest
John's socks in her hand and the needle

and yarn on the floor. I picked them up,
fearing Rap's paws, and left her sleeping.

My own room was as cool as any part of
the sunny old house, so I lay down thereon
the sofa.

The buzzing of the bees round the
flowers on the table grew fainter the flapping
of the blind ever so gently at one
corner became a lullaby. All my cares
fled ; the waving trees, shot with sunlight,
dissolved into fairyland. I slept and
dreamt. My dream also was after the
fashion of fairy tales. A strange muddle
of *' The Sleeping Beauty " and " Little
Bo Peep."

The castle was invaded, we were all flying.
Trumpets sounded, dogs barked, the
commotion was terrific.

I struggled up. Ah me ! the noise was
at UphoJland, not at Cockleshell Castle.

"Peggy, is it the butcher?" I murmured,
my mind instantly reverting to
the pending transaction of the day, the
sale of my lambs."

My heart almost died within me when
two ladies entered the room, who looked as
if they had stepped out of some of the
pictures at Hampton Court.

They towered above me smiling, with
their wrinkled yet preserved skin drawn
in an excruciating manner from their
horribly false teeth. They were precisely
the same height, strongly resembled each
other, and dressed alike, with one exception
— they wore different colours.

But for this, they might have passed for
one and the same woman.

Their badges were respectively orange
and rose. Immense coal-scuttle satin
bonnets, with waving plumes of black

feathers tipped with orange and rose, to
correspond with the colour of the bonnet,
white lace capes, brocaded dresses as stiff
as boards, and very high-heeled shoes.
Their mittens were drawn up under the
puffing of their sleeves, bub between the
threads could be seen the glitter of many
an old-fashioned gem. They stood silent,
side by side, and curtsied to me.

My bewilderment was intense. Was I
dreaming ? Where had they come from,
and who were they ?

When my amazement was at its height
I caught sight of Peggy gesticulating
frantically behind them, and pointing towards
the Manor.

Suddenly it flashed across my mind.
They were the Miss Loverings, the note
twins, Miriam and Naomi.

A smile wreathed itself round my lips,

naturally enough, for they were the very
oddest couple I had ever beheld.

I beg your pardon for being so stupid.
I have been asleep, and was not half
awake when you entered. Will you sit
down ?"

They accepted my apology frigidly, and
placed themselves on two chairs, with
chins in, heels together, toes out, like
children at a dancing academy. I felt my
own insignificance miserably. I seemed a
mouse beside them ; I had neither their
necks nor waists. I was all plump and
soft; I could not have straightened my
back and drawn down my fat shoulders in
imitation of theirs, to have saved my life.
Their attitudes were identical. The orange
lady crossed her right hand over her left,
the rose lady her left over her right.
That was the sole difference.

I began to grow hot. Would they never
speak ?

** Have you any idea who we are, Miss
Sharland ?" came in precise tones from beneath
the orange bonnet.

I believe you to be the Miss Loverings."


** We are," replied both simultaneously.

It is very kind of you to call," I ventured
to remark.

To be candid, I was afraid of them when
silent. They looked like figures at a wax-works,
and Peggy had shut them in with me.

*' Miriam thought "

(' Naomi thought "

'' Well, we both thought," corrected the
rose bonnet, " that it was proper to come,
as you are living on our estate. We
nearly always think together, Miss Shetland."


Naomi, dear sister, we do everything
together."

They exchanged glances of the most fond
description, and subsided into an undertone
of whispered endearment, shook their heads
in mock anger, peeped into each other's
faces under their bonnets, and well-nigh
upset my gravity.

We were observing," continued Miss
Naomi, '* that being now under our protection
" (I winced), " we considered it
proper to call. But you are not what
we expected, Miss Sharland. Is she,
Miriam ?"

'* Nos' solemnly replied Miss Miriam.

^' May I ask what you did expect,
madam ?"

'' Ahem ! Well, some one older, taller,
thinner, clad in deep mourning, and of a
sad demeanour."

Indeed ! I am obliged to confess, then,
that you are justified in your disappointment.
There is nothing sad or melancholy
about me. I intend to make my life as
pleasant as ever I can."

The pleasures of this life are but fleeting,"
replied Miss Miriam.

I agreed, and silently marvelled why
they took so much trouble to prolong its
vanities, when they could only be a source
of torment to themselves and amusement
to others.

Their scraggy necks and prominent
bones would have been better hidden,
since all beauty of symmetry had departed.
Their white hairs and furrowed
cheeks would have been a crown of glory,
bespoken for them veneration, care, honour.
But the false fronts, corkscrew curls, cos-retired

skins, stood forth and denounced
then as impostors.

They invited ridicule in its coarsest form.

Poor things I If their souls were as
distorted and false as their bodies, no
wonder they held on to the remnant of
life years had left them, and cheated
themselves as they hoped to cheat
others.

Do you play ?" asked Miss Naomi.

*' Yes ; I gain my living by teaching."

Our brother William mentioned something
of the kind, and it interested me. I
was once a fine musician, but rheumatism
now partially incapacitates me."

I thought, more likely age, old lady.

Do you happen to know a piece called
'Mozart's Minuet'" inquired Miss Miriam,
sweetly.

*' Yes. Shall I play it for you now V*

"If you would be so kind. My sister
Naomi used to dance the minuet at Court
in good King George's time. Her grace
was allowed to be unequalled ; her ankle
the most delicately turned. She was — we
were affianced to "

Whom, I never heard. Emotion again
overpowered these ladies, and while they
comforted each other, I opened the piano
and began to play.

Very likely they were thinking how my
figure would be improved by the use of
the '* back-board," and that my locks were
woefully unkempt.

True, instinct told me my twists were
all rubbed the reverse way, and that my
figure was not imprisoned in a whalebone
cage.

Presently I forgot them — venerable old
ladies ! My memory ran backwards to the

days when I was a child and learning this
identical minuet, mounted on a high stool,
and my querulous parent standing over
me. I saw — I heard it all again. The
tall aristocratic figure, the drooping white
moustache that hid the weak mouth, the
high forehead denoting genius, over which
so often there hung the shade of melancholy.
I heard the sigh — hopeless and
silly — that he, poor incapable creature,
heaved when my small, chubby fingers and
childish ideas wandered away from his beloved
Mozart. Those sighs used to pierce
my heart far deeper than the impatient
frenzy of reproof that sometimes followed,
to this effect, that ** I should never play."

In this instance — instructing me — as in
everything else, his deplorable weakness
was apparent. He had no perseverance or
patience to wait a reasonable time for a

result. If success was not instantaneous,
the undertaking was a failure in his opinion,
and cast aside in favour of some new idea
that he knew would prove as bright as his
dreams of it.

I had played it carefully, minding the
passages that he had paid special attention
to, and my fingers slipped silently off the
smooth keys.

I was waiting for my mite of praise, the
musical :

'* Thank you, my daughter ;" or, '* You
improve, Grace.

Instead, I heard :

<< Very nicely played. Miss Sharland.
You remind me much of my own playing,
only I do not think your touch is so delicate
— is it, Miriam ?"

I turned — my dream fled. There they
sat bolt upright — skinny, aged, artificial.

I smiled, and Miss Miriam replied :

Certainly not, dear sister. Monsieur
Bordeaux used to say he had not such
another pupil as my sister Naomi, Miss
Sharland. But I hope she will play for
you when you come to the Manor."

Civility compelled me to answer that I
hoped she would, and I endeavoured to
appear as earnest as I could over it. I
succeeded evidently, for Miss Naomi
simpered, and bridled, and grasped my
arm with one of her scraggy hands, in an
outburst of enthusiasm painful to witness.
They commenced their leave-taking : they
curtsied, and kissed the tips of their long
nails to me, they pirouetted round each
other in the most bewildering manner.

At the end of six minutes I had, with
infinite relief, consigned them to the care
of a pompous, corpulent coachman, and

tall footman, whose ideas and senses, I
imagined, might be centred in his protruding
calves and patent-leathered toes,
as that was decidedly the best-looking end
of him.

It was a very elegant and costly equipage
— Mr. Lovering's was nothing compared
to it.

From the door I turned to encounter
Peggy's honest face of surprise and pleasure.


VOL. r. 11

Noble art thou in thy birth :
By the good and the great of earth
Hast thou been taught ;
Be noble in every thought
And in every deed."

*' Did you ever see such a grand sight, Miss
Grace ? Just look at the dust they've
kicked up I All the gentry will come now.
You are going to be like your mother,
dearie — bring the folks from far and near
for a sight of your face. But I do wish
we had known they was coming. I was
just fuzenless when I opened the door and

seed that lanky fellow with his breeches
tucked up."

*' Never mind, Peggy ; it cannot be
helped. Is my hair very rough ? I was
asleep, you know."

"It is rather; but don't keep that in
your mind — you're just a real lady, Miss
Grace, and the greatest in the land may
learn from you. Anyone can see you
belongs to the quality, and are wellborn."


"Forget that, Peggy. My birth will
do nothing for me, and I don't care that it
should. I prefer to win friends and
respect according to my own individual
deserts."

The butcher has been, Miss Grace,"
replied Peggy, immediately changing the
subject, " and he has bought your lambs."

For how much V

11—2

John did not say : he said the price
was a good one ; and he comes for them
tomorrow, and brings you the money'

I was pleased. Pleased on two scores —
firstly, the recently paid visit; and secondly,
the sale of my adopted children.

For the honour of the ladies Loverings'
visit I cared not a fig ; but I was conscious
that it would give me a prestige in
the locality not to be scorned. No one is
better qualified to judge of the courage
and mercy of womankind than one of the
sex left lonely and poor in a well-to-do
neighbourhood. They will stare at you in
churchy especially the men, who are not
above speaking to you in the dark in a
quiet lane, and maybe annoy you sufficiently
to make their sensual countenances
hideous to you by daylight. They will
kneel at the same table on sacrament

Sunday, but they will not touch you with
the hem of their rich dress in the aisle if
they can prevent it. They will let you
hunger and thirst on their very doorsteps,
yet they will not ask you in nor alleviate
your sufferings. If it be your lot to be
hired in an eminently virtuous snob's
family, God help you, and direct that it
may not enter into the vile hearts and
thick heads of the 'dear children" to pull
you limb from limb. We promise you you
will get no redress from the parents.

When the sun sank I went into the
garden, and wandered about till the very
last bird had chirped itself to sleep, and all
the flowers drooped languidly.

No one had a prettier home. It was
beautiful in precisely the way I wanted it
to be ; it was quiet and peaceful. I had
settled what I should do with the lamb

money, and in a fit of affectionate gratitude
I crept up to the woolly pets, lying in the
soft grass, and pressed devoted kisses upon
their hard heads. They were so sleepy —
hardly able to wiggle-waggle their tails.

The following morning gave promise of
a hotter day. Barely had the light broken
before the sun peeped from between the
clouds, hot blazing then, as it intended to
blaze all day long with treble fury.

I dreaded my walk through those long,
hot meadows, where there was now no
song of any bird.

Perhaps one lark would rise and whirl
carolling overhead in a passion of song
that seemed an outburst of madness, then
suddenly come reeling down and fall
stricken at your feet, killed by the sun-king
it was trying to reach. In the grass,
and screened by the leaves, the songsters

lay, scarcely troubling to rouse themselves
as you passed.

My appetite flagged, these broiling days ;
and Peggy endeavoured to improve matters
by standing over me, as if her presence
could inspire hunger.

The postman's step roused me, and I
stretched my hand through the window.
Just one letter, coloured paper, fashionably-shaped
envelope, and a gilt crest as large
as half a- crown.

I opened and read it.

Huzza ! I might have a holiday !

Like a girl of ten, I capered round the
room, and in rushed Peggy, wondering
what had happened.

•' Only an unexpected holiday, Peggy.
I can save my skin this day, and need not
submit to the painful process of being
broiled alive."

I am just thinking it's a good thing
it's come, for I don't know that you could
have walked over there to-day. You areas
white as a ghost, Miss Grace."

Was I ? There was not an atom of
glass in the room, and I really could not
go upstairs for no better reason than to
look at myself in the cracked one in my
chamber, which always represented you
with the toothache.

The time passed, and I did nothing but
help Peggy in the house a bit. The glass
jug had returned safely, and it never
occurred to me to inquire who brought it.
I was too lazy.

Something I must do ; I could not
endure that the whole day should be
allowed to slip by without leaving any
mark of its passage.

Half-past two !

The shouts from the meadows came
distinctly on my ear, and filled me with
the desire to go there and rest amongst
the sweet-scented herbage. In two seconds
I was ready, my hat on my head, my
books tucked under my arm. The meadows
were reached at last, and I selected a haycock
and sank thankfully down upon it.
To my left rose the hill where the men
and carts were busily at work. The crops
were heavy, better than they had been
for many years.

Two old Irishwoman were not far off,
turning the hay ; but the carts would not
work their way down to where I sat that
day, though they carted by moonlight.

The distant voices, the fresh air all round
filled with the smell of hay, helped to
soothe me, and acted soporifically. I fell
into a dreamless sleep.

When I awoke, the cart was going
round dealing out beer and food to the
harvesters. Frank was almoner ; Mr.
Lovering, driver. I almost laughed at
sight of him, perched on one side of the
small cart with his face burnt the colour of
beetroot, his brows drawn protecting
over the keen, grey eyes, as if the sheltering
brim of the dilapidated hat was not
sufficient. What an odd man !

Yet one could not but admire a gentleman
of so practical a turn of mind, a man
master of himself and everything else he
put his hand to ; one who was so true a
gentleman that he could turn his hand to
anything without losing caste, and despised
and defied censure. It is not every day a
nan is found brave enough to challenge
society, equal to disarming criticism.

I watched them away, the stout black



pony Medea, pressed into the service,
flipping her short tail to disturb the flies
that worried her glossy quarters.

Then I returned to my book, and forgot
all about my landlord. At the end of a
quarter of an hour I was again roused,
and a great shadow intervened between
me and the sun. It was Mr. Lovering.

Good-bye ! Is this not strange, that we should santo
one who leaves us for a single day,
The same farewell that oft the laboured breath
Gasps from the twilight of the eve of death V

Are you going to scold me for coming
here V I asked.

No."

Do you want me to go ?"

** No;" and he flung himself down beside
me. " How did you make such a nice
seat ?" he questioned, eyeing my hay
chair.

'^ I did not make it. I have been here

so long that I suppose I have moulded the
hay to my figure. Did you see me when
you came round with the cart ?"

** I saw some one, and I could think of
no other likely to come out here. What
made you come, Miss Sharland ?"

'* I do not know ; I do things often for
no better reason than to give myself
pleasure. It was not to see you that I
came, Mr. Levering."

'* Oh, indeed ! I came to see you, Miss
Sharland, to say ^ thank you ' for sending
your pet jug out yesterday."

I did not send it ; Peggy had no other."

'* You are determined I shall not be deceived
upon any subject, I see. May I
inquire whether you consider me a vain
man V

I took a hurried survey. The face I
could not look at long ; it was full of meaning

and fascination to me, yet beauties
in most people's eyes. His attire was
Careless, shabby. He was either positively
indifferent to people's opinions, or relied
upon his intelligence rather than his
appearance to win him esteem and love.
As this last thought darted through my
mind I smiled.

*' Will you answer my question ?"

^' Yes. You are not vain of your
appearance."

But I am vain of something V

"I think so."

Again I saw the strange smile come
over his face.

'' Are you comfortable there ?" he
asked abruptly, nodding in the direction of
the farm.

'' Quite, thank you. Are you sorry you
let me come V

'' No, I think not."

How is the hay, sir — too hot ?"

'' No, it is cool and calculating, like you."

"And no shame to it. There does not
seem to me to be much use in getting
anxious and excited over one's life "

** Very likely not ; but you must keep
moving on, for all that. Life is like the
treadmill ; stumble, and some one steps on
your heel."

My experience of life not being equal to
his, I forbore arguing the subject, and remarked
:

I have sold my lambs, sir ; your's is
well, and now able to take care of itself."

He bowed, bowed with old-fashioned,
stately grace, and lifted his hat high off
his head.

You are a competent guardian, Miss
Sharland. I will relieve you of the charge

of my lamb. You had some visitors
yesterday — did they please you ?"

I dared not look ; I felt my lips quivering
with the excess of mirth that rose
when I recalled the Miss Loverings.

You sent them 1" I replied.

*' Perhaps. Does that vex you V

No, certainly not."

I wanted them to know you ; I
thought you might, in a manner, do them
good."

*' I ! do your sisters good T

Why not ? They are by no means
perfect ; and let me tell you, Miss Shetland,
that it is only by comparison perfection
is ever attained in the slightest
degree."

'* Then I may learn from them ever so
much. For instance, how to sit bolt upright,
and become thin ; how to curtsy ;

how to coax my face into girlish, gushing
smiles ; how to keep up a mockery of perpetual
youth ; how "

The expression of his face stopped me.

^' Please forgive me, I have been
thoughtless, rude "

'' Nay, neither. You have but been
truthful. Why are you so bitter V

'^ I was angry."

^' What at r

I blushed to own my reason, but I felt
I was in honour bound to give it, and I
was not at that moment sufficiently mistress
of myself to invent one.

'' Tell me," he repeated, unconsciously
usino^ the tone of gentle command that for
the first time in my life I chose to
obey.

'' I thought you were displeased with
me, and wished me to copy your sisters."

VOL. L 12

** Heaven forbid ! You like them !
Why, you are precisely what I "

He checked himself, bounced up, and,
sticking his fingers into his mouth, gave a
shrill peculiar whistle, a whistle that he
alone could make.

I was astonished.

** Good-bye, Miss Sharland. I must be
looking after my men over yonder."

He lifted his hat without looking at me ;
I could see he purposely avoided doing so.
I was vexed, and he knew it. I resolved
that the next time we met he should not
have it in his power to leave so abruptly.


If we indeed could surely gain
The end to which we toil and strain ;
Could grasp the thing we deem most dear,
And hold it firm and keep it near !"

I SAT on, reading, thinking, seeing far off a
rosy future. Thank God for the continually
pleasant flow of ideas He permitted
me to enjoy.

My life was happy, yet I could not in
any special way account for its happiness.
My friend Mr. Cartland wrote to me often,
kind, fatherly, helpful letters, and urged me
to visit them the first opportunity I had.

12—2

As I lounged in the hay this hot afternoon,
I thought of him, and how oddly he
had come to my aid in my desolation.

The beer-cart kept going its rounds ;
the Irishwoman came nearer, and I could
distinguish snatches of their conversation.
A slight feeling of hunger took hold of me.
I looked at my watch. SIk o'clock. I
rose.

Going, Miss Sharland V asked a voice
behind me.

It was the master. What had induced
him to return ?

'' Yes, Mr. Lovering ; it is my tea-time.
Of course you dine an hour later. Are
you going ?"

He grimaced.

^*No, T am not; I will do without dinner.
It is a long way to go for so little."

He held my hand ; his eyes were sad

and tender enough to have melted any
girl. For me, all the naughtiness just
fled out of me, and I felt good and obedient
as I looked up into the kind, sunburnt
face.

Will you come and have tea with me,
sir, when you are busy, or come in and rest
when you are tired 1"

'' Much obliged, I will."

He still held my hand, though I said
very pointedly, '^ Good-bye, sir."

My discomfiture increased when I saw
the women resting on their rakes intently
watching us.

Mr. Loverincj^, I must o^o."

*' Of course sou. must," he retorted, rousing
himself; "who thought of detaining you?"

I immediately took advantage of the
freedom, and departed. If his fingers
again clasped mine as before, I stood a

good chance of remaining there. All the
way home I accused myself for something
that pricked my conscience, but eluded my
reason. It was a whisper, an idea, that
had come into my mind suddenly and
unasked.

How lovely the moonlight was — the
garden as light as day — when I pushed
back the blind and looked through the
open window !

My throat was sore with singing; I
would go and find some fruit.

I opened the little gate and stepped
into the orchard, cooling my slippered
feet in the long grass thick with bluebells.
Out of some old ivy-covered trees by the
pond flew a bird with a wild startled cry,
and a tired horse stopped munching the
succulent grass in the croft, to gaze at me.

Poor beast I it had wrought all day

with its fellows in the hay-field, and had
truly earned its rest.

I made my way to the cherry-tree. I
could see the ripe fruit hanging above mein
the moonlight, as clearly as the strips of
white rag Peggy had tied to the gooseberry
and currant bushes to keep off the
birds.

Once upon a time I might have seized
the lowest bough and swung myself up into
the tree. Now, however, I looked about
me for a stick to reach up with. In the
moonlight I saw an old hay-rake, most
likely brought there by Peggy, to assist
her to get enough for the delicious cold
tarts I had seen in goodly array in the
larder. It was an unwieldy thing, and
excessively difficult to manage when upright.
Grasping it firmly in both hands, I
got it into the tree and shook down some

cherries ; but I discovered that by going to
the other side I should have better plunder.
Thither I desired to go, and could not. The
rake was fast. I fretted a little ; I wriggled
and jerked my fat shoulders nearly through
the muslin.

Altogether I behaved remarkably like a
spoilt child, and then laughed at my folly.

You had better let me help you," said
a quiet voice, slightly sarcastic.

There stood that queer man, my landlord,
under an apple-tree. The very tree that
had been a show of blossom in the spring.

I don't mind if you do," I replied,
ungraciously.

I was annoyed at my defeat, and morally
certain that had he kept his ugly person
out of the orchard for five more minutes, I
should have had that refractory rake out of
the tree and been mistress of the situation.

My temper was not improved by noticing
a smile that hovered round the large mouth.
I had rather he had laughed out.

I found that rake here's I announced,
knowing he dearly loved each and all of his
possessions."

'' You will wet your feet," was his reply.

He silently gathered the cherries he had
pulled down with the now liberated rake.
I noted the change in his dress.

You have been home ?"

Oh yes," he responded with dignity.

I remarked that he always spoke in a
dignified manner of his home, as if to impress
one with the intense happiness he had
in it, and his love for it. He did not succeed
in impressing me with that idea, by a
long way. I felt what a loveless, cheerless,
unsociable place it must be, presided
over by those two dreadful old ladies ; and

how detestable to him, a man peculiarly set
apart for home-life, companionship and
affection.

My thoughts were running wild ; speculating,
more than was wise, imaginary
things that would have vexed him sorely
could he have known them.

Here are your cherries, Miss Shetland."


*' Thank you."

I took the bunch and divided it, giving
him half

*' You cannot eat them all, I suppose ?"

I could, but it would afford me no
pleasure to do so. One gets enough of
eating alone."

Why do you live alone V

Why, because no one invites me to live
with them. Shall I advertise ?"

No I" he almost shouted.

The insects buzzed under the trees ; bats
flew in and out, avoiding the moonlight as
much as possible.

I was eating my cherries contentedly
enough, when all my tranquillity was put to
flight by seeing an enormous stag-beetle
crawling crab-like up my arm. Now, if
I had a special horror of anything it
was OQe of these creatures. I shivered,
screamed, and dropped my bunch of cherries.
Oh, take it oW—do—do /"

He awoke from his reverie, and turned
at my cry — every atom of harshness out
of his face. He caught me to him, and
soothed me with a gentleness I had never
known before. It was silly, of course, but
the nasty animal had startled me, and I
clung for a second to him.

** Did it sting you V he inquired, still
holding me.

No, thank you ; only I was afraid, you
know — and I have lost all the cherries you
gave me."

Here are some. There, don't shiver
any more. It is all over now."

And you think I am a goose 1"

'' I don't. I think something very different."


What r

^' I cannot tell you — at least not now."

Then you will sometime f '

^' I hope so."

Do you believe in dreams, Mr. Lovering
'?" I asked suddenly.

He started.

'' Certainly not."

Don't you ever dream ?"

Often."

I pressed the matter no further. His
reserve was upon him again.

Are you not afraid of taking cold, out
at this hour ?"

^' No. I Hke behoof here. I like behoof
with you. When I was little I used to
creep out of bed, dodge nurse, and rush
away into the garden. I enjoy fruit by
moonlight. I could like to go into the
meadow now and sleep amongst the hay."

You are not gfoinof ?"

Oh no. I am grown up now, and responsible
for my own actions. No one
would have me to teach their children if I
behaved myself indecorously. I am very
cautious."

'' Are you ? You remind me of what I
once said to a sweetheart of mine."

A sweetheart ! I should not think you
ever had one."

He burst into a loud laugh.

I am getting old now, you know," he
replied in an apologetic tone.

'' Not very'

I liked neither to hear of his age nor his
sweethearts.

Well, I am older than you."

Rather. How old do you suppose I
air

'^ Not yet forty."

'' Forty ! Don't be stupid. I shall be
twenty-one in May."

*' Twenty-one in May !" he repeated.
'' Really I I mean, is that all T

*' All ; though people are always generous
enough to credit me with fifteen more
years. Tell me — do I look old T

'' No ; but your manner, your way.
Why do you not tell your age ?"

What good would it do me ? it only
gives me all the longer to work."

** But it is to your advantage, my dear
-girl."

How so ? People are generally unbelieving,
and always wicked enough to
take advantage when they get an opportunity.
Very likely they would not believe
me if I stated my age. Think I wanted
to make myself out a clever, remarkable
person, or they would take advantage of
my youth and inexperience to cheat mein
some way."

And you have told me ! Are you not
afraid I may abuse your candour 1"

Not the least bit in the world. It is
quite different, telling you."
*' Is it '( I believe it is."
Again my hands were firmly clasped in
his. No one had ever so held my hands
before. I could not have released them
had I desired it. I did not desire it. I
was content, happy.

*' You are not afraid of me, then V

*' No. I dare say you can be very cross
and terrible when you choose ; but I am
not going to provoke you."

*' You could not," he replied.

I avoided his steadfast gaze ; now there
was a passionate light, a determination in
his eyes that dazzled while it fascinated
me.

We were silent, standing beneath the
cherry-tree.

A glad, wildly happy thought darted
into my mind, and I raised my eyes.

Yes," said he, meeting them, and as if
answering my thoughts, " we "

A head, surmounted by a white cap,
was poked over the wall, and Peggy
cried :

'' Miss Grace ! are you there ?"

"Yes."

'* Supper is ready."

My hands were directly released, and
Mr. Lovering, in a totally different tone of
voice, said :

Good-night, Miss Sharland. I do not
recommend you to remain out longer."

Good-night, Mr. Lovering."

Thus we parted.

Grace, you are a fool !" was my comment,
when I regained my sitting-room.

I resolved to forget all — everything ;
and with an air of resolution cut some tart.
But I could not eat. My mind kept on
revolving.

Did all men behave like Mr. Lovering?"


Instinct supplied the place of experience
with me, and the answer came to
the fore at once.

'' No."

VOL. I. 13

My violin gave out strange music that
night. I had no one to whom I could
speak, had I been so inclined, so I put my
thoughts into my music. '

I

Ashen summer suns are bright, dear,

And fields with gold are glowing ;
When summer suns are bright, dear,

And gay flowers are blowing,
We'll rest beside some merry stream.

In a deep bowery wood,
And muse upon the tender dream

That fills our souls with good."

My sleeves rolled up, mounted on a plank,
I stood making butter.

It was deliciously cool in the dairy ;
only the sunlight on the big beech tree
before the window, and the scent of hay
and flowers entered there.

13—2

I liked making butter. My hands went
deftly to work : I patted and moulded the
solid yellow pounds with their numerous
prints on their faces. My favourite was a
wheat sheaf

One large dish stood ready on the slab,
thickly covered with leaves, when a clatter
of horses' feet on the stones aroused me.
The butcher or the miller, no doubt. Certainly
not Mr. Levering; he never came
near the place now, and my amusement
was intense to observe how he contrived
to avoid me. Whether his cuts or snubs
hurt me he cared nothing ; he was quite
forgetful of the fact that at one time he
had sought me and shown a preference for
my society, and an interest in my welfare,
that was not of the usual order. Men are
cowards.

Yes, gentle reader, your idol and defender

is sat heart a coward, and will, to
gratify his vanity or increase his amusement,
condescend to the meanest, basest
conduct, without any temptation. The
smile fled out of my face at the recollection
of my landlord ; he had ceased to bea
pleasure to me.

My surmise was correct ; it was the
worthy miller, Mr. Leetee. I rather liked
this man. Short, stout, dark and intelligent,
he awakened my interest immediately.
I found him kind and considerate,
and possessed of no small heart or understanding.
He had asked me to go to his
house in Danver whenever I liked, his
wife was nearly always at home.

Whatever his position might be, I saw
he was no common man, and I accepted
his generous invitation with every intention
of availing myself of it some day. He

had spoken to me of his children, his boys
and girls, in a frank manner, very pleasant
and natural.

There was something in his dress, so
quiet and good ; no jewellery, but spotless
linen, and the finest cloth ; the faultless
condition of himself, the perfect teeth and
nails, yet not the slightest approach to
dandyism — that betokened the well-ordered
mind, the genuine worth that lay concealed
beneath this modest exterior.

I liked him. I could geb no further —
cite no reason for doing so ; nor had I any
wish to. Hitherto I had found my own
judgment of character sufficient to guide
me right ; I would not mistrust it
now.

We had had many quiet chats in my
sitting-room, while he took some milk or
cider; and I had questioned him about people

in Danver who had applied to me to instruct
their children. In many instances
he had guided me; in one he had prevented
me becoming associated with a family unprincipled
and immoral, yet sufficiently rich
and cunning to lay a thick coating of gilt
and politeness over their misdeeds, and
gather around them a crowd of acquaintances.


'^ When one is poor one may take anyone's
money' so say some.

But not I. One such connection is sufficient
to damn any young woman.

It is not degrading to clean one's own
shoes, or eat dry bread ; but it is to associate
with those who have no respect for
the laws of common decency, and who live
only to commit acts of vice that when called
by their proper names make people turn
their heads aside.

I was thankful for my escape. I
never met the gorgeous carriage, with
its fat horses and fatter servants, bearing
its cargo of repulsive insolence, that I did
not remember Mr. Leetee with sincere
respect and gratitude.

To have had any member of that family
in a position to say they knew 'me, even in
the humble capacity of teacher, would have
been a thorn in my side for ever and
ever.

Peggy had been near when he asked mein
his clear voice, to go to his house, and
had heard me accept.

Will you go. Miss Grace ?"

Certainly''

Going to Mr. Leetee's is not like going
to the Miss Loverings, and your papa was
so very particular."

Yes ; and yet not sufficiently particular

to place me beyond the necessity for
mixing with all and everyone. Don't
let me hear any more of that nonsense,
Peggy. Mr. Leetee is a simpleminded
virtuous man, and therefore a
gentleman."

I laughed when I thought of him not
being like the Miss Loverings. I shouldn't
think he was. They were nonsensical,
artificial, heartless old absurdities. He
was a real, upright, warm-hearted man,
with boys and girls of his own.

I was right-down glad when the dark
face appeared at the door.

'* They told me you were here. Miss
Sharland."

And it's quite true, Mr. Leetee ; I ama
living, thinking, working young woman.
Will you have a glass of milk 1"

'please."

He came nearer.

You can make butter, I see."

Yes ; I may have to seek a situation
as dairymaid. If this butter were mine I
would give you a pound."

^' I believe you would ; but as you cannot
show your goodwill towards me in that
manner, will you come and see my wife V

Yes ; where is she V

^' Here, in the yard."

I hastily unrolled my sleeves, put down
the pats, and left the dairy.

'^ I saw the horse and gig standing
behind a rick for shelter from the sun, but
no lady."

She has gone somewhere. Mary !
Mary !"

Yes, John," came the obedient reply.
'^ I am looking' at these little ducks."

This is Miss Sharland "

The lady at once turned and bent gracefully
to me. I thought I had never seen
so sweet a face. The profile was delicate,
and expressive of excessive sensibility and
affection. The full blue eyes turned on
John timidly, and with more solicitude in
them than one usually sees in those of a
wife who is perfectly sure of her husband's
temper.

I settled it at once that this gentle lady
was by no means confident of John's approval
ten minutes together, and led a
harassing life.

Her dress was the perfection of simplicity
and neatness, and reminded me of a sect I
thoroughly admire — Quakers. I learnt at
a later period, that Mrs. Leetee belonged to
a Quaker family — very worthy people indeed,
and that, contrary to the wishes of
her family, she had married passionate

John Leetee, captivated by his dark beauty
and black, crisp locks, which he was not
above having curled for special occasions.

Come in, Mrs. Leetee."

Again the timid look.

'^ Mr. Leetee is in no hurry," I continued,
answering the glance. " He can see all
there is to be seen, or come with us, ashe
pleases."

She suffered me to lead her into the
house and get her some milk. I found
that her husband had told her of my
lonely life, and she, judging from her own
feelings, pitied me, and made more of the
circumstance than there was any need to do.

I let her sympathise and make much of
me in her loving, motherly way. To have
checked it would have wounded the gentle
heart to the core.

My courage astonished her the most.

How could I live alone in that quiet
place, and sit by myself through the evenings
? She — she should go mad, or die of
fright !

I thought, perhaps better that, than bethe
wife of a man like your husband,
madam. I might have had an easier place,
owing to a more extensive knowledge of
such characters and a more elastic constitution.


She, poor creature ! might well always
be tired ; her mind was never off the rack,
her anxiety never slumbered ; and when
John was tolerably tranquil, her natural
refinement and eye for order imposed some
household duty upon her.

My life might be lonely and hard, but
thank Heaven there was no repression
about it, such as stifles the vitality of too
many women, and causes them to draw

their last breath years before they need
have done.

When I had earned my peace, I could
enjoy it; I had only myself to please. In
those days I imagined that to be the climax
of contentment. Now, I know that no
woman can live long contentedly for
herself only.

*^ I scarcely think you would," I replied,
looking at the sweet, nervous face, with
the bead-fringe hanging from the chip-bonnet
on to the soft, brown curls ; "you
could take an interest in the things about
the place, and make your own dresses or
bonnets."

She smiled.

So I could, my dear ; so I could. I
always made my baby's clothes, even to
the caps. When I was younger I made
Mr. Leetee's shirts, and his stocks, and his

vests ; but now my eyes are not quite so
good. I tell my daughters they do not
know what their mother did, and T hope
they may never have to do the same.
You seem very strong, my dear."

'^ Yes, happily my health is excellent ;
and as it is the only fortune I ever had,
or am likely to get, I intend to take care
of it."

*' Quite right. I hope you will come
and see us, Miss Sharland. My eldest
daughter is about your age, but not like
you ; she is delicate, and very much
spoiled."

Before I could reply, Mr. Leetee joined
us.

You are talking of Annie ?" he asked,
glancing at us quickly with his black eyes.
*' So she is spoilt, is she ? My wife means
that for me. Miss Sharland. Well, if I

do spoil the girls, you do the same by the
boys ; and I know to which it is likely todo
the most harm."

This was evidently a knotty point ; and
seeing poor Mrs. Leetee's anxious face, I
hastened to reply :

'' To sensible children a little spoiling
never comes amiss. If your parents are
not kind, who will be ?"

Mr. Leetee looked at me, and I could
see by his tender expression he was thinking,
'what if my Annie had been se
left !"

His wife sighed.

Mrs. Leetee, which do you consider the
best shop in Danver for me to go to for
my things ?'

'' Guthrie's. We go there for everything,
and it is convenient, for they keep
many things needed in a household."

"Thank you ! then I shall go there."

"My dear," said Mr. Leetee, putting his
shapely hand on my shoulder, "if you like,
I will recommend you to them as a regular
customer, and then your account will come
every quarter, and if you are not able to
manage it, come to me ; I will see they do
not annoy you."

I shall feel greatly obliged if you will
recommend me, Mr. Leetee ; but have no
fear, Guthrie will never have to trouble
you."

I know that — you will help yourself,
and I am glad you have not refused my
offer."

At the end of an hour pleasantly passed
in conversation they departed ; and having
seen them drive off, I resumed my butter-making.


VOL. I. 14

I liked them extremely ; there was
something so true and kind - hearted
about them. I felt drawn to them
strangely.

*' A word unspoken, a hand unpressed ;
A look unseen, or a thought unguessed ;
And souls that were kindest may live apart,

sever to meet or know the truth,
Never to know how heart beat with heart

In the dim past days of a wasted youth."

The last pound was being rolled, when
again horse's hoofs sounded, and presently
John's head was poked through the open
door.

*' A groom from the Manor brought this
note, Miss Grace."

Is he waiting 1"

*' No, miss."

14—2

When I had finished the butter, I
turned to the note. The handwriting
was that delicate, it might have been
executed with the point of a pin ; the
missive was enclosed in a narrow long
envelope, and highly scented. I had to
read it twice before I mastered the sense,
so elaborate was the composition ; when I
did comprehend, my heart beat quicker.

I was invited to the Manor for the following
evening. Evidently Mozart's Minuet
had done the trick, and captivated the old
ladies.

Sitting on the stone, I pondered. What
should I go in 1

Very little choice had I ; my dresses
were all draggled and torn.

What a pity I had not availed myself of
Mr. Leetee's offer, and gone into Guthrie. I
had not, however ; and now there was no

time to. I must meet the demand with
what I had.

Thanks to nurse, I knew how to use my
needle, and now it must aid me to appear
in as fresh an attire as my limited means
would allow.

The only dress that appeared at all Hkely
was my best merino — part of the mourning
I had had for my father. A silk dress I
did not possess.

I shut myself up in my bedroom and
reflected. The dress was taken out, unfolded,
and inspected. It was good, fitted
charmingly ; only it was Quakerish to a
painful degree, and scarcely the thing for
an evening at the Manor, where I knew
there were visitors.

I desired to look well — every young
woman does; I must enliven it someway.
I turned the contents of the drawer

over, and got my fingers entangled in some
black ostrich-feather trimming, which had
been my dear mother's. Then came a
parcel. I opened it, and disclosed some
black spotted net I had bought to make
a bonnet with. I formed my plans
directly. I would open the dress and fill
in with the net, drawing it full up to the
throat, and finish with a band of the
feather trimming, using the feathers as a
decoration for the bodice. The sleeves I
could loop back and trim with feathers
and net. I knew my arms and neck were
good, and I was proud of their beauty.

Having settled this matter, I fell to
work, and before the sun set I had made
such a transformation in my dress that it
looked presentable.

My note of acceptance I had despatched
by the milk-boy. When Peggy heard,

hands and eyes were lifted in consternation
:

Whatever are you going to do for a
dress, Miss Grace V

'make your mind easy; I have managed
all that, and I dare say I shan't look so
bad."

Peggy said dinner at the Manor was at
six o'clock, so I timed myself to arrive
about half-past five, as Miss Miriam wished
me to come early.

When on, my dress looked better than I
expected, and I called Peggy up to see.

'•' Very nice, indeed, Miss Grace ; but
you do want a spot of colour. You look
so white in all that black — poor child I"

'' What can I do ? I have no ribbons !
I might wear a rose'*

'' To be sure ! and there's plenty of them
deep red ones under the kitchen window."

Away flew Peggy, and presently returned
with a cluster.

It was already late, so I hastened to
fasten them in amongst the net about my
throat, and snatching at my gloves while
Peggy hooked my cloak, I hurried off, in
terrible fear that I should be late. I took
the short way down by the side of the farm,
and through the wood which skirted the
park and then branched ois to the left,
which brought you to a small wicket
opening on to a side lawn.

This was my first visit. The Manor its
master had shown me from the crest of the
hill, that day, coming home from Danver ;
but at that distance I had not been able to
master half its beauties. Its closely-shaven
lawns, its sparkling fountains, its
beds of endless flowers, all harmonizing,
as colours alone do in nature : the archways

of knotted, tangled wood, cunningly-entwined
with roses and ivy ; the sheltering
woods on either side screening the
gardens that vied with each other in loveliness
; it was the most beautiful place I
had ever seen or imagined, and a silly,
childlike delight possessed me, as I
mounted the broad white steps, with
vases of choice flowers lining the ascent,
and timidly pulled the bell.

My summons was answered by the elegantly
proportioned footman who had
attended the carriage the day the Misses
Loverincr honoured the farm with a visit.

Whatever awe I might feel when beholding
the glories of nature cultivated by
art, or the visible production of man's
talent I felt none when addressing a
menial, a creature whose insolence rendered
him ridiculous. All nervousness fled, and

I compelled the man's respect and attention
by the authority that had been born in me,
and over which I could not always exercise
power. I noticed with delight the sneer slip
from the coarse mouth, the half closed eyes
intended to express indifference and perfect
confidence in himself — opened their
limited extent, and out of them looked
that cunning anxiety, that coward heart,
which proclaims the base born.

T saw he recognised me as the young
person who earned her living by teaching
the pianoforte, and on whose account he
and Sinking had been obliged to endure
the sun's scorching rays for more than an
hour one afternoon.

I had not the least doubt but he had
mastered every point of my modest toilet,
and remembered with infinite relish the
superiority of Susan Fanes. •

These thoughts amused me, and sent a
queer thrill through my veins.

The room into which I was shown was
evidently one sacred to the Misses Loverings,
for there, in the opposite corner, was
the spinet on which Miss Naomi rattled
her skeleton fingers. What is considered
lady-like knicknackery, and much affected
in boudoirs, was plentifully littered about.
Brackets were here and there nailed to the
wall, ornamented with dirty pieces of lace, as
rough as if they had been dragged through
a thorn hedge. These supported images :
*^ Youno^ England and his Sister," " A
Shepherd and Shepherdess " looking
lovingly at each other from behind their
crooks, '' St. John and the Lamb," etc.

Some atrociously executed water-colours
were stuck in conspicuous places, and a
picture of Miss Naomi in a turban completed

the catalogue of deformities. If I
had been compelled to remain long in that
waxwork-like apartment, I should have
been unable to resist the desire to turn
everything topsy-turvy and execute a
hornpipe amongst the remains. I began
to consider how I could escape from it
before I had disgraced myself for ever.
There was no sign of the living appearance
of either Miss Naomi or Miriam.

The window was fasfc closed, and listing
tacked round it, as well as the door, so that
every breath of air was excluded. I grew
stifled, faint.

Oh ! if I became unconscious, I might
fall with my face on a china-bowl containing
some decayed relic of their early days, or
they would be clawing me with their long
fingers, and burning feathers under my
nose.

Desperate, I unbolted the window and
flung it open, and in doing so nearly flung
myself out.

A hand caught me.

'' Oh, Mr. Levering !" I gasped joyfully.


«f Why, I believe you are glad to see me.
But where are you rushing to ?"

I — I don't know. They put me inhere,
and I thought no one would come,
and I "

*rand you did not like it The added,
laughing. ^' I don't wonder at it — that
room would give me the blues. Will you
venture in again with me ?"

*eyes; I must go back, because Miss
Lovering will come presently, I suppose."

I suppose so," he replied absently; and
looking up, I found his eyes fixed upon me
earnestly.

He had on a light coat and straw hat.

*' Have you been away ?"

^' To-day — yes ; they don't know I am
back now. Why do you ask V*

** Because I have not seen you for such
a long time."

*^ No, no — I have not been about the
farm very lately," he answered hurriedly.

And, as if to avoid further controversy
on the subject, he rang the bell.

^' Tell one of the ladies Miss Sharland
has come, and send a maid here at once."

With a nod he vanished.

Presently a smart maid arrived, who
conducted me upstairs, and thither there
appeared Miss Miriam.

She embraced and kissed me most affectionately.
Poor thing ! she intended it

kindly enough ; but I would she had

ft
adopted some other method of evincing

her good feeling, for it was a inmost trying
ordeal. She gently squeezed me, and her
sharp bones grounded into my fat shoulders
painfully. But I bore it, and actually
smiled when I got my face out of the stiff
bosom.

She wore a dress of blue satin, with
embossed flowers in velvet upon it. Her
head was enormous — rolls and folds of
hair looped through tortoiseshell gratings,
every atom of which was false. I thought
of my own sleek head, and marvelled what
she must have felt like with all that luggage
on hers.

Her watery eyes noted my appearance,
and the summit did not please her.

^' My dear, don't you think if you had
your hair dressed fashionably, like mine,
you would be improved 1 Wilcox can doit
in five minutes — she is so expert 1"

Wilcox's eyes gleamed at the prospect
of operating upon my head. The owner
thereof had no intention of gratifying her
ambition.

^^ You are excessively kind, Miss Miriam,
but I have never been accustomed to have
my hair mounted over cushions, and I don't
think it would feel comfortable."

'* Very likely it might feel strange at
first ; but consider the change, my dear —
change is so necessary."

'^ Is it ?" I responded, moving towards
the door. Subjoining silently — *^ Changes
are lightsome, and fools are fond of
them''

Then you won't ?" inquired Miss
Miriam, regretfully.
No, I won't."

'^ Of course, just as you like, my dear,"
she continued, taking my arm, and marching

me off. But I thought you would like
to appear as other ladies : you look so odd.
I hope you ivorit feel peculiar. We have
Mrs. Fantail and her niece, Miss Clementina
Kirkham, staying with us — very
stylish people. Clem is quite a belle ; and
it is so improving to her to have her aunt
to go out with, she is so accustomed to
society, and has travelled a great deal."

VOL. L 15

In my anger I long to forget you

Through summers and winters ; yet
I long to completely remember
More than I long to forget."

So chattered Miss Miriam, and I wondered
what manner of women these were, and
what they would think of poor insignificant
me, in my merino dress.

I wished I had not come — not through
fear, but because I surmised I should not
meet my friend, and I dreaded the purgatory
through which I must pass.

Daunted and afraid I was not. Something
whispered to me :

'' Grace, be natural, as God made you,
and you will be good in the sight of someone.


The next moment my eyes were dazzled.
We were in a large room full of shimmering
light, intermixed with shades of blue,
gold, and white.

I heard rippling laughter, rapid utterance
liberally interlarded with fast slang
and French. It proceeded from a settee,
before which stood a broad-shouldered form
I knew very well.

*' William I You here ?" exclaimed Miss
Miriam.

William turned. Mr, Lovering looked
well in evening dress. I saw him, though
I did not look : felt the power of those
keen grey eyes ; saw the wavy brown curls
as they fell over the massive forehead. He
was not handsome. No ; that harsh, arrow



gant face had nothing of beauty about it,
but plenty of repulsion. To me, however,
it was strangely fascinating.

I thought you had gone to town,
William. I am sure Allison said so."

Indeed I then Allison spoke unadvisedly.
I must lecture him."

What made you change your mind ?"

He laughed.

Rather a small thing ; nothing half so
large as you, Miriam, in any sense. But
it is just a dot that turns the scale in
every case."

'' Do you remember Miss Sharland,
William r

"Perfectly."

And my hand received a squeeze it was
not likely to forget. Something had
pleased him — there was that odd sparkle
in his eye.

He turned away abruptly, and resumed
his conversation with Miss Kirkham.

I found a seat near. Miss Kirkham
attracted me ; she was the first specimen
of the kind I had ever seen.

Tall and graceful, she induced you to
watch her movements. They were all
arranged to catch the eye, and amused
one by their insinuations. I could imagine
she would speedily engage the attention of
a man new to the manoeuvres of a crafty
woman.

Her appearance was undoubtedly striking.
My head reached to about her
elbow. And her head ! It was covered
with a touched, frizzled, curled, tangled
mass of golden hair. Naturally she was
fair, but to appear unusually taking,
she had painted her eyebrows and dyed
her hair. In all likelihood this beauty

made sad havoc with ignorant boys,
or those in a second dotage — old men
thinking of a third wife instead of their
coffins.

Dressed in black gauze dotted with
silver, her waist spanned by a silver zone,
her fair arms encircled by silver snakes,
she looked enchanting, and as angelic asher
aunt's evil teachings and her own
naturally base mind would permit.

Fortunately the face was not made up

enough to hide the crafty designs that

lurked in that powdered breast.

Not far from Clem sat the aunt, Mrs.

Fantail, squeezed till her sentences had

to be curtailed to the limits of her breath,

and her conversation was carried on in

gasps.

She affected the Spanish beauty, and

cased herself in black satin, from out of

the folds of which crept a scarlet chain of
flowers, serpent fashion, twining waist,
shoulders, and catching lovingly at the
lace hat drooped over the high Spanish
comb.

Her age there was little chance of
guessing, so cleverly was every indication
abolished. At some period of her life
she had buried a husband and two
sons.

Leaning back and displaying as much
of her foot and ankle as she very well
could, talking in a loud, convulsive manner,
and smiling at one side of her mouth —
the side where her teeth fitted best, probably
she struck me as being a remarkably
bold, rude woman.

Clem had put herself into an attitude
and sat silent, gazing into Mr. Lovering's
face. He looked at her, but I cared

neither for the expression o^'his eye nor
raoul.

Their conversation was about the balls
of the preceding season, and the probable
doings of the next.

'^ You are going to give a ball, are you
not, Mr. Lovering ? I have never been
to one here, but aunt has described it tome."


'' Yes," continued the cunning old aunt,
throwing all the emotion she was capable
of into her voice and eyes ; " / remember
the last ball — only too well."

The squire moved uneasily, and looked
at me.

What did he look at me for ? I neither
knew nor cared, but he perceived that 1
had heard by the smile that curled my lips.

He was vexed. I detected the rasping
curtness, though his tone was bantering

and sufficiently real to pass for genuine
with the two women who were struggling
to charm him.

Charm him ! I felt a hot rush of conscious
power speed through my body as I
considered how incapable they were of
doing it.

Not all the smiles and graces they were
possessed of could elicit one responsive
smile from him — one smile with warmth
in it — or call a single gleam of light into
his eye.

Admire them he might, as men will any
woman. But love ? — never ! And I was
glad, aye, glad, and a fool for being glad.
I knew that I was more of his order —
that he did not shrink from the touch of
my hand as he did from Mrs. Fantail's.
The poles were not further apart than they
were ; while we

'^ My dear Miss Sharland ! so pleased to
see you," murmured saintly tones at my
side.

I turned, and for the first time observed
Mrs. Duckworth. The recollection of her
only visit, and the sort of admonition she
thought I required then, so coincided with
her voice and manner noiVj that I looked
into her abashed face and — laughed.

But it was easily accounted for. She
found me in the squire's house ; so I — I
must be respectable, and it behoved her
not to offend those who befriended me.

My laugh caused Mr, Lovering to look
sharply in my direction. Perhaps he
thought I might be hysterical. He got
rewarded for his pains by a tap from Miss
Kirkham's fan.

My countenance was composed enough
to have sat at *' meeting" with. I was

attentively listening to Mrs. Duckworth's
ingenious defence for neglecting me.

Amy and Charlie are here," she smilingly
said ; *' they will be so pleased to see

you."

Pray don't disturb them' I replied,
seeing her glance in the direction of a
lanky young woman ; " and I think weare
going in to dinner."

We were.

In his way round the room the squire
stopped by mee, and resting his hand for
one instant on my shoulder, said :

'' I wish -"

*' William," called Miss Naomi, and he
passed on.

A man from Ceylon fell to my share —
a perfectly polite little fellow, with a baldhead,
a round face, and bright black, birdlike
eyes. I moved on with the others

hoping my place might be somewhere
where I could catch a glimpse of Mr.
Levering. It was all very strange and
uninteresting to me, so far.

At last we are settled at table, and there
are more people than I at first thought.

I don't know any of them, and I feel,
if my little Ceylon man would only get
something very nice to eat, and cease trying
to entertain me, I should derive plenty of
amusement from listening.

Alas I nothing is further from his intention
; he commences with redoubled vigour,
turning his dumpy face towards mine, and
thereby enabling me to decide that the poor
thing had an affection of the liver.

Before the soup has gone round I have
uttered several " no's" and " yes's."

My replies have been short, because he
had only a quarter of my attention, though

I plainly perceived he flattered himself he
had it all. I am a long way from the
master, and cannot see his face for a
quantity of forms.

This is my first dinner-party, my first
party of any kind, and I mean to enjoy it.
It is all novel to me. In my younger
days I had imagined how it would be, and
longed to go, if only once.

But that desire had burnt itself out, and
now it was realized. Here I was at a
party !

The light, warmth, glittering glass and
silver, the scent of the flowers, the fragments
of conversation, lulled me into a
strange far-off recollection that closed my
senses to the speeches of my partner.

What business had I here 1 — I, who had
never seen half the things that graced the
board — did not even know their names?

Did these people know — did the man at
my side — that I was a poor governess,
almost alone in the world, living in two
rooms in a farmhouse ?

I was mad even to come here ; I was an
impostor !

Startled at this conclusion, I looked up,
seeking in my distress the only face that
said anything to me. I found it full of
light and interest that quieted every unhappy
feeling and made me content.

He had moved his seat more to one
side, as if he defined my distress, my loneliness,
fenced in by all those strange
people, and knew his presence would reassure
me. It did ; for I could see him
when I wanted, and he could send a smile
down the long table from time to time.

Things went better after this, and I
enjoyed my dinner. The champagne

stirred the blood in my veins, and I tried
to make myself pleasant to Mr. Hastings.

We had to suit our conversation to our
knowledge, for neither of us knew anything
of the other's life or place of abode.
He had returned from Ceylon after an
absence of years, and his native place was
Scotland. I knew nothing of either Scotland
or Ceylon, except from books.

This he did not discover for some time.

You speak as if you knew, Miss Shetland
; as if you had seen the places."

*' So I have, in imagination, and very
likely through living alone I have got into
the habit of entering more deeply into
descriptions and books I read."

'^ You read a great deal, T suppose T

*ras much as ever I can. There is a
good library in Danver, and I get books
from there."

*'No doubt you find Danver a nice place
t© reside in. Plenty of visiting, which I
am sure you must enjoy."

I smiled, and made no reply. I perceived
how completely astray the poor
man was, and I did not care to enter into
an explanation for the benefit of the
people near, vrhom I noticed listening tous.
Perhaps they had taken me for a
mute, when first we sat down.

Dinner stretched itself out wonderfully,
and I wearied. I supposed it was habit,
good-breeding, but they seemed to me
to gloat over their food, and prolong
the disposal of it in a truly sickening
manner.

At last the fruit was handed, and it
made me long to go into the garden.
This course was hastened, though to my
mind by far the pleasantness, and we ladies

trooped out of the room, leaving the
gentlemen masters of the situation.

The dresses now engrossed my attention,
and I thought how much money and how
little taste had been expended.

An old lady took possession of the seat
next to mine. She was the wife of the
one-eyed colonel, and one of the nicest
ladies in the room.

Her kind voice and simple manner won
my heart, and I replied to her questions
without hesitation.

And you live alone, my dear '?" she
repeated, laying her fine jewelled hand on
mine. " It makes me feel ashamed to own
to any nervousness when you are so high-minded
and brave."

Mrs. Fantail, with the lovely Clem on
her arm, had drawn near, keeping the door
well in view, so that she might pounce

VOL. I. 16

directly upon the gentlemen. Her loud
tones now chimed in with :

Alone ! You must be mistaken, my
dear Mrs. Moreland. Surely you do not
live alone. How dreadful !"

Her harsh voice had the desired effect.
She attracted everyone's attention, which
was evidently what she sought to do,
hoping very likely to disconcert me, and
force from me an avowal of my humble
circumstances. Good Mrs. Moreland was
visibly distressed.

The faces of consternation and contempt
tickled my fancy, and I thought, '^ Shorn
of your husbands and fathers, left to fend
for yourselves, it is easy to predict the
road you would each and all take."

I resolved to strain their mercy — their
tender feelings — to the last degree. .1
knew I should be amply rewarded by

watching the various expressions of annoyance
and offence that swept over their dull
visages when I gave out my true position.

'* Yes, it is quite correct ; I live alone.
I lodge with Mr. Lovering's dairy worn an
at Upholland Farm. I can bake, iron,
make butter, feed the pigs, milk the cows,
tend the lambs and poultry, sweep the
rooms, paint, paper and whitewash, cook the
dinner — that is when there is any to cook !'

Here they looked at my hands, smaller
and whiter than any of theirs.

In short, there is little you cannot do,
romancing included ? Sorry to interrupt
this one, but I have something to show
you. Miss Sharland."

END OF VOL. I.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS AND ELECTKOTVPERS, GUILDFORD.

-to— <y

*JI^-

/^

[#ilW/S Requital

HELEN DICKENS

♦ ♦ .-*- <* :•

♦ »-

OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS

D553w

Jl fiobtl

BY

HELEN DICKENS,

AUTHOR OF "married AT LAST," " THE MILL WHEEL," " WILD WOOD,

"the home of FAJTB."

Though the mills of God grind slowly,

Yet they grind exceeding small
Though with patience He stands waiting,

With exactness grinds He all."

Longfellow.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON :
Charles J. SKEET, 10, KING WILLIAM STREET

CHARING CROSS.

1881.

[All Bights Reserved. |

A WOMAN'S REQUITAL.

=><«<

CHAPTER I.

There's many a flower lies hidden
Deep under ice and snow,
And many a love there burnet,
Whose secret none doth know."

It was Mr. Lovering who spoke. Mr.
Lovering's strong hand that was outstretched
to me.

I wondered what these women would
say if they knew it mended the gates,
guided the plough, dabbled in all sorts of

VOL. n. 17

work? I jumped up, feeling like an
escaped prisoner, a person awakened
from a horrible dream.

He was surrounded instantly. Mrs.
Fantail and Clem foremost.

*' Won't you show me T murmured the
fair Clem, casting up her eyes into his
face.

'^ Certainly — at another time. Miss
Sharland has been amusing you, it is now
my turn to amuse lier. This way, if you
please. Miss Sharland."

He conducted me into the conservatory,
and out of that into a fernery, and shut
the door.

'' What is it T I inquired.

Anything you fancy. The ferns, the
fountain, the fish. How long had those
old vultures been worrying you?" he asked,
balancing himself on the edge of the
marble basin.

'not very long; and it does not matter.
They know now, so that is over."

Yes, and you are disgusted and tired.

D them ? Don't look round ; are you

thinking how you may escape '?"

'' Something like it. Not from you, but
the others — how I could avoid going
amongst them again. It looks so cool and
quiet under those trees."

He started up and gathered my hands
into his.

'' Little lonely child, you are braver
and nobler than all those women put together
; your life is as heaven compared
to theirs ! How did you get through the
dinner ? — were you wanting to runoff, then?"

''.Just for a little, while I could not see
sou; not after."

But I thought you wanted to go now?
You can see me, can you not ?"

17—2

Yes, verily' Dark though it was, I
could see the sparkling eyes and flushed
face bent dangerously near to mine.

Were you planning for me to go, too V
^' Yes."

And, by Heaven, I will some day !
but not to-nights — not to-night. If we
went ofl" into those woods now, they would

raise a hue and cry "

Hush ! here is someone."
*' Pooh ! they cannot come here. I
drew the bolt. It is Clem, or the aunt.
Fine women, are they not '?"
"Yes, sir''

^' Rather a feeble ' Yes,' Miss Sharland.
Not much heart in it. I agree with you :
they are fine women ! Yet, strangely
enough, I prefer talking to you. Who
put you up to wearing this T' touching the
feathers round my throat.

Myself. I had to invent."

And these?" Hating the cluster of roses
on my bosom.

Peggy."

^^ Are you generous. Miss Sharland V

*' I hope so, when I have anything to
give «

*then give me a rose, one that is
nearest to you."

I obeyed. I plucked the one that had
lain on my neck all the evening.

'* It is quite warm," he murmured, kissing
it. " See, I place it on my heart, thereto
remain until "

Redoubled clattering at the door, and
cries of '' Mr. Lovering," '' William !"

I recognised Miss Miriam's cracked
note and Mrs. Fantasies Spanish comb by
the light one of the gentlemen held
aloft.

They were there in a bevy. The consequence
of my situation occurred tome.


May the devil, etc. !" exclaimed my
companion, crushing the rose in his breast ;
and slipping the bolt, he continued : '^ My
good people, why did you not open the
door, instead of making an uproar only
excusable if the house were on fire ? I
had not the least idea ladies could be so
clamorous 1"

Notable discomfiture on the faces, and
a titter from the tall guardsman who
carried the wax lights.

Miss Miriam's anxiety was so real that
she had let slip the youthful expression
she was wont to dress her withered countenance
in, and I saw the shrivelled, hard
skin lifted in nervous puckers round the
fallen mouth, which, but for its substantial

prop of false teeth, would have curled
itself inwards, like any other old woman's.

Her anxious face disturbed me. Was
she afraid of her brother ?

Perhaps. There was a flash in the deep
eye, and the peculiar swing of the coat-tail,
that always told me when the squire
was roused.

Lynx-eyed Mrs. Fantail was the first
to recover her self-possession. That
woman's impertinence being of gigantic
proportions, it took a great deal to quell
it for any time. For ever would have
been utterly impossible, as it was the head
and centre of her existence.

You have lost one of your roses, Miss
Sharland," she proclaimed triumphantly.

The lovely Clem craned her fair neck
over her aunt's shoulder and smiled — such
a smile as innocence never gave birth to.

Mr. Lovering saw it, saw that every
eye was levelled at me.

^* Remarkably sharp sight you have,
Miss Kirkham; excellence only equalled
by beauty. Miss Sharland gave one of
her roses to — the fishes."

A scornful laugh from Clem.

"Do hold the light nearer, Mr.
Vaughan," she pleaded, bending over the
basin.

I defined her meaning as I heard a
slight hiss from between Mr. Lovering's
teeth.

My sight is not so good as you supposed,
for I cannot see a single trace of a
rose, Mr. Lovering."

He laughed, a short, sharp sound, with
nothing of hilarity in it.

'every likely not, Miss Kirkham.
Fishes are no wiser than some ladies, and

when they can, resort to artificial means
to increase their beauty. Most probably
these fish, silly things ! thought the colour
of the rose leaves might brighten their
gills, so they have eaten them. I know
you can understand their feelings and
sympathise with them in the pardonable
deception !"

He placed his hand on her arm. With
a sharp scream of rage, not pain, she drew
back.

'' You hurt me, Mr. Lovering !"

A thousand pardons, my dear Miss
Clem ; I had no idea you were so
tender !"

Lanky Mr. Vaughan was here seized
with such violent inward twitching that
he jerked the candle out of its socket, and
shot it in amongst the gold fishes, leaving
us in darkness.

This exploit elicited a genuine laugh
from the master.

''Do you know whether candles are
good for fish Vaughan '?"

'' I do not. Ask Miss Kirkham."

But Miss Clem had gone.

Move on, ladies, move on !" called
Mr. Levering ; and there was a general
stir. " Well, witch," he said, turning tome,
where I sat under the shadow of an
aged fern. '' Don't look at me reproachfully
; I did my best. I ought never to
have brought you here, but I could not
resist. 1 knew something was wrong, by
a tightness under the left side of my
waistcoat all the time I sat with those
men, and then, when I found you encompassed
by that herd, I could not let you
suffer another moment."

I saw the light of passion gathering in

his face again. Now was my time to
go.

I rose and moved towards the door, he
little knew how reluctantly.

^' You are going?"

'' Yes, Mr. Levering ; it is better for
you that I should go."

So it is ; right, child, right. What a
wise little head ; what a cool little hand !
Grace, I would trust you in a great difficulty.
You will help me when I am in
sorrow ?"

'' Yes, sir.'

What a collected ' Yes, sir T Just as
if there, run along, run along !"

I did.

No one noticed my entrance, and I took
a seat near a table whereon lay a number
of splendid views of Rome. In these I
soon became interested. Most of the

company wore gathered round the piano,
at which Miss Clem sat singing ^^ None'
vere," and throwing passionate glances
at Mr. Vaughan.

Mr. Levering had entered some moments
after I did. He had gone round
and come through the house.

We were divided by the whole length
of the room, and he made no attempt to
join me, though I felt he had looked round
and found my hiding-place.

Not long was I allowed to enjoy it in
peace. Miss Miriam and Mr. Hastings
came up.

I am glad you have found these views,
my dear' kindly remarked Miss Miriam,
evidently now troubled with no fears, " for
I am sure you will appreciate them. My
brother brought them home after one of
his wanderings. He used to be very fond

of travelling at one period, and I think his
greatest trouble was when he could not go
out with Dr. Livingstone."

Mr. Hastings remarked, " Indeed !" and
gaped stupidly at me.

Miss Miriam hurried away to talk to
Mrs. Duckworth, and Miss Clem continued
to scream and ogle the men.

She stopped ; and I heard Mr. Lovering's
voice above all others bestowing
rapturous praise on the vocalist.

Little Mr. Hastings now asked me to
sing.

"You cannot say you do not, Miss
Sharland ?"

No."

Then you weill ? You have a singing
face."

I did not know you were a fortuneteller,
Hastings, and I must be permitted

to differ from you. Miss Sharland's face
is at present anytliin^^ but a singing one.
Perhaps you don't sing ?"

*' She does, William," said Miss Miriam,
hurrying up, " and will sing for us now,
I am sure. It will afford us all such
pleasure."

What could I do but agree ?

Mr. Lovering was conversing with Mr.
Hastings, and Miss Miriam escorted me
to the piano.

These ladies never compelled their
brother to perform any office they where
equal to. They were so much older, that
it seemed natural to them to take the lead,
and for another, and perhaps better reason
they could not always depend upon his
humour.

When I took my seat at the instrument
I heard a murmur from Mrs. Fantail, who

probably expected some catch song of
renown three years before, or a feeble
imitation of a well-worn operatic air, with
variations that sent cold shivers thrush
you.

I made ray choice. A simple, tuneful
song, of rare pathos and exquisite harmony,
telling a story quick and thrilling —
'' der Schemer."

I had never sung in such a large room
before, or to so many people.

I cannot plead nervousness ; I felt
nothing but keen pleasure at the tone of
the splendid piano, and perfect confidence
in my own powers.

My voice rose steady, rich, and filled the
room from corner to corner ; there was no
flaw, no thinness. I heard it with satisfaction
; I would make him listen.

Not always does the most powerful

voice evoke the greatest attention, or leave
the most genuine pleasure in the memory.

With skilful management a voice of
moderate compass may achieve great success
with a very critical audience. This my
father had impressed upon me, and taught
me how to modulate and expand with the
truest effect, keeping always in view the
story being told.

Thus I had sung from my childhood,
putting my own heart m the place of
others, feeling and depicting their joys
and sorrows as if they were my own.

My father had praised my rendering of
some descriptive music, and said I inherited
my mother's talent.

My mother had one tiny regret — that
she had not made the stage her profession.
Something of this latent theatrical genius
I had imbibed, therefore I was not

astonished at the conclusion of my song to
hear, uttered in spiteful accents :

Quite startling — positively theatrical !"

I returned to my former seat, and combined
occupation of looking at the pictures
and talking to Mr. Hastings.

I recognised the square shoulders of the
master, who with averted face was talking
to old Mrs. Morland.

Had he liked my song ? If he would
only turn his face I could decide for myself


These and other thoughts crowded my
brain, and made Mr. Hastings's incessant
chatter very tedious to endure.

I had a vote notion he was doings what
is termed flirting, and I regretted that his
stupendous efforts in this line should have
been so thrown away.

VOL. IL 18

I now noticed that the company were

separating, and footmen came in with

whispered announcements, seeking for

some special object in the assembly.

I would go.

I caught siofht of Miss Miriam, and to

her I went.

She glanced up rather playfully.

'' Well, my dear T

'' I should like to go. Miss Miriam."

Certainly, my dear. Say good-night
to anyone you please, and then I will go
upstairs with you."

Surely she was making a fuss over me.
There was only one person in the room
whom I cared to bid good-bye to, and that
I had better not do.

No, Miss Miriam ; I can slip through
that door and find my own way upstairs.
Good-night !"

'' Ah ! I understand — rather flurried.
I can remember my own feelings when
your age, and we are very impetuous.
You must not mind, though such sudden
conquests are enough to make any young
thing nervous."

I stared in amazement.

Conquests, Miss Miriam ?'*

'' Certainly. Was there ever a clearer
one, silly child 1"

Why so V inquired Mr. Lovering,
who had come up.

Here, William, you are generally considered
a good judge of people's intentions
by their manners and actions, what do you
make of Mr. Hastings ? Is it not a clear
case of love at first sight ?"

My face became hot, water rushed into
my eyes, and I could not raise them.

18—2

Was there ever confusion more intense,
more provoking ?

Miss Miriam's question received no
answer.

^^You must consider Mr. Lovering's
silence as an assent, my dear ; and now
good-night. There is Wilcox."

She kissed me, and patted me encouragingly
on the arm.

I made no return ; I saw the open door,
and I hailed it joyfully as a means of
escape. But I bungled, my fingers were
weak, and the door heavy.

A firm hand clasped over mine, and the
door yielded.

In the hall I managed to say :

'^ Good-night, Mr. Lovering."

"To be sure; ^ooc^-night. Miss Sharland.
The carriage will be round in eve minutes."

He was gone directly.

When I came down the carriage was
there, and in state I was ushered into it,
and driven home.

No sign was there of the master.

' My heart, I fain would ask thee,
What call'st thou love, expound V
Two souls with one thought between them,
Two hearts with one pulse-bound.' "

The drive home in the moonlight was
pleasant. Alone in the great carriage,
the soft cushions, the easy motion, all
served to lull me like a tired child. I
recollected the events of the evening with
terror. What was the meaning of it ?
how would, how could it end? I knew
what I hoped, how my silly heart beat.
I strove for calmness, I prayed for the

revival of that strong common sense that
had hitherto been mine.

What had I done ?

Allowed an elderly, ugly man to deprive
me of my very will, to render himself the
one being with whom I saw the prospect
of a happy future for myself, a life worth
living for. I felt that my strong, wild
nature was subdued, that I had lost what
was my defence, my stronghold, my independence.
Never again could I act or
think for myself alone.

Could 1 be mistaken in his meaning;
was I crediting him with motives he did
not entertain ? I was very ignorant in
the ways of the world : a child in many
respects.

Was his kindness and thought for me no
more than what he would feel for any
other woman similarly placed ?

Perhaps. But what meant the self-conscious
whisper that I was something
more to him ? why did Memory reproduce
so exactly every word and look, losing
none of the tenderness displayed at the
time 'i A woman who is not wicked may
always trust her own heart in such matters.
Mine was aching when the carriage stopped
at the gate.

Peggy was waiting very near the door,
it seemed to me, by the instantaneous
manner of its opening.

I have set your supper, Miss Grace ;
you are one as needs a little something
before they go to bed."

'' I am not inclined for any, Peggy."

'^ Have you enjoyed yourself. Miss
Grace ?"

Yes, thank you."

I thought perhaps my manner was too

abrupt, so I sat down and told the worthy
old soul something of the doings at the
Manor.

I was amply rewarded for my effort by
her pleasure.

1 was early up the next morning, and
went singing on my way. My doubt of
the preceding night had tortured me, but
knowing full well what would be expected
of me by those who hired me, I banished
it, retraced my mind, and strove to find in
sunny nature the joy no mortal could
deprive me of.

Every teacher has trials and disappointments,
and some black sheep amongst her
flock. My pupils were no better than any
other persons, perhaps not so bright.
Some had come to me with sorry recommendations
from loving relations and
friends. Possessing some slight knowledge

of character, I taught each differently,
according to his or her capacity. I had
what is termed tact and the issue was that
they learnt and did me credit. I knew it
was to my advantage to turn out good
players, and I spared no efforts to render
them such. Those learning the violin
were simply wasting their time. They
would never succeed in drawing any
melody out of the instrument, and I
dreaded the lessons.

The holidays were at hand once more,
and I counted my gains.

Reader, I was not by any* means insolvent,
and all I besought God for was —
health.

The day after the party, Mr. Lovering
had gone from home, into Wales, they
said, and I had not seen him.

Nothing could have been more cooling

more damping — to one's affection ; and
I felt a return of the old indifference.


I had only one more lesson to give, and
this on the violin. Imagine my relief
when I was informed that, in consequence
of her aunt's death, Miss Moss would not
take her lesson.

I almost rushed down the steps, 
that some one Alas certain to be
watching from behind a blind. When I
reached the corner of the square, I saw
Mr. Leetee go whirling past in his gig.
He did not see me; his face was white
and earnest.

An idea occurred to me ; 1 would go
and see the Leetes. I knew their house,
one of the oldest in Danver. Its face
fronted the market-place, and its garden
ran down to the river and joined the mill.

standing . white and gaunt, the only mill
in Danver.

It was one of the cleanest-looking houses
in the town. The steps were white, and
worn with the tread of feet. A couple
of bells and an enormous brass plate
garnished the door, bearing the name of
'' Leetee," which constant scouring was rendering
fainter.

An elderly domestic opened the door,
and showed me into a pleasant sitting-room
covered in clean holland.

Not three minutes did Mrs. Leetee keep
me waiting. She looked even prettier
without her bonnet. Her delicate beauty
was enhanced by the cap of black lace and
rich violet velvet she wore.

Her kiss was given readily and tenderly,
and I appreciated it. She was the very
first mother who had ever kissed me.

Come and take your things off, mv
dear ; Mr. Leetee would be quite angry if I
let you go."

But I must leave in time to reach
home before dark."

'^ You shall ; there is plenty of time for
that. My daughters are out at present ;
one shopping, the other at school. We
take tea at six, dinner at one."

So chatted Mrs. Leetee, as she took me
upstairs.

The comfort and neatness of that townhouse,
with a large family in it and only
two servants, spoke volumes for the energy
and management of its mistress.

By degrees the family came in.

First Miss Leetee, very pretty, delicate
and sensitive, like her mother. Then
Mary, stronger, plainer, cleverer ; and, in
ones and twos, the five sons, all well

grown, good-looking, and moderately intelligent.


The one that seemed to me the most
reliable — the most like the father — was
Mary ; and oddly enough, I saw she was
not very popular with the others, nor did
she care particularly for them.

The big brothers petted her in a silly,
good-natured fashion ; and Miss Leetee
snubbed her whenever she got an opportunity.


This family interested me.

The dining-room was large, and furnished
very plainly. Its two long rows of heavy
chairs gave it a strange look to my unaccustomed
eye. But when they were, soQie
of them, pulled out and set round the long
table, occupied by the sons and daughters,
it made all the difference.

The conversation was pleasant, but

shallow ; they were not clever, the Leetes,
none took after the father, save the
youngest ; and several times I saw her
short upper-lip lifted scornfully at some
affected or silly speech, in [a manner that
betokened no good for the future. This
bird would never stay long in the same
nest with the others. She sat next to her
father, and though extremely reserved and
cold in her manner, I saw that her watchfulness
was unceasing. She loved this
parent as such natures alone are able to
love, with an intensity that is anguish to
themselves.

I thought how, in a few years — very few
for she w-as almost a woman now, though
they did not knows it — she would love some
man : not in the feeble, caressing style
common to women, but in the grand, noble
fashion her mind approved, with a devotion

that would stand any test, last her whole
life.

I sat next to Mr. Leetee, and he paid me
such kind attention that I felt slightly embarrassed.
He called me '' my dear," as if
I had belonged to him, and unconsciously
tendered to me that very protection that
wins a haughty, proud woman's earnest
regard.

The sons had all the good appearance,
without the father's strength, either mentally
or physically.

After tea I played and sang for them,
and presently proposed going home.

The boys shall go with you, my dear ;
and one of the girls, if you like."

I knew he made the latter suggestion
out of a sense of delicacy, thinking I might
not like the male escort alone. Somehow
I did not fancy pretty Annie Leetee half so

well as her sister, and hoped she might
express a desire to go. I soon found out
that Mary was considered the family packhorse
; to carry any load Annie disliked.

Mary, get dressed ; it want hurt you,"
said Mrs. Leetee, in a burst of authority and
disparagement.

Miss Leetee had settled herself to her
fancy-work.

Mary rose, a quiet smile of scornful
obedience curling her small mouth. Mary
Leetee was by no means well-looking ; but
she would grow up a fine-figured, sensible
woman. Her self-control enabled her to
hide her feelings, and her principle was so
excellent, that she performed whatever was
required of her without a murmur or
pout.

Mrs. Leetee had the notion that children
should be kept down.

VOL. IL 19

Mary was rapidly raising her proud
head out of her mother's reach, and
the good lady's ineffectual efforts to
regain her leading-strings were very
amusing.

Mary neared the door and spoke. The
tone of voice was good, sweet, and full
enough to denote the passion that
lay beneath. The words had the easy
utterance that promises a continuance and
a command of language.

'^ Why the walk is supposed to be better
for me than for Annie I cannot see. I
have already walked to Sunny Hill four
times, and only a week tomorrow the accident
happened to my foot. My lessons
are still three parts to do. But I will go,
for I like your mandate this time, mother ;
and I know I shall prove a pleasant companion
to Miss Sharland."

There was a titter from the two remaining
sons — Arthur and Patrick.

Mr. Leetee said, " What's this, mamma V

Only Mary grumbling," replied Mrs.
Leetee, looking terribly taken aback.

I saw a perplexed expression on Mr.
Leetee's face.

'^ Mary, you should not grumble to your
mother."

I am not grumbling, papa dear."

Well, well ; perhaps you will explain
why you are likely to prove a pleasant
companion than your sister ?"

I can do that easily, papa. In the first
place, I like and know more about the
things Miss Sharland takes an interest in ;
therefore we are not likely to waste half
the time hunting for a mutual topic. Secondly,
I can get over a stile, and am not
afraid of a cow, or my constitution.

19—2

Thirdly, I can see when I have said
enough."

Thereupon she closed the door, leaving
us all in terrible straits.

"Impose not a burden on others which thou canst
not bear thyself."

Messrs. Patrick and Arthur were choking
with laughter. Miss Leetee was shedding
tears upon her satin-work. Mrs. Leetee
was boiHng with rage. Mr. Leetee and I
were convulsed with mirth which we both
suppressed from a sense of consideration
toward the mother and daughter.

I might have made some remark expressive
of regret at taking Miss Mary ^ out,
and protested my willingness to go alone.
But I saw that it only wanted just a very

little more to raise a tumult, in which
everyone would fare worse than Mary.
She would retire quietly to her bedroom,
and there amuse herself with her store of
information, while the others chewed the
cud of mortification in the sitting-room.

I also wanted to improve my acquaintance
with this strange young lady, in
whom I surmised the entire brains of the
family were centred.

Miss Leetee having wiped her eyes and
been hugged to her father's ample breast,
attended me to the bedroom, where she
sat sucking her lips.

She was extremely pretty, and dreadfully
conscious of it. Her delicacy was a
fortune to her, and her parents were silly
enough to pamper her and be imposed
upon time after time.

Before I was dressed Mary entered.

Her attire was very simple ; indeed,
shabby.

Papa is vexed with you, Mary."

Of course. He would cut off one of
my ears if the law would permit him, and
if he fancied it would shorten the pangs of
your vexation. What sort of soothing
syrup is it to be this time, Annie ? — a pug,
or a new riding whip ? Flowers have a
beauty in the window — a horse's head in
gold. Just cry yourself sick, faint twice,
have one stye on your eye, and you'll get
whichever you like, or both."

Shaking with rage. Miss Leetee drew
herself up for another sting.

It is to be hoped you won't meet anybody,
Mary ; you are really not fit to be
seen !"

'' On the contrary, I hope I may meet
every person I know, especially that admirer

of yours with the spindle legs. You
should ask him whether he would like to
come and hang up in the garden to scare
Mr. Bland's pigeons. With regard to my
appearance, I think Miss Sharland will
agree with me that it is wonderful, considering
that every single article on my
back has been worn more than half out by
either you or your mother. I was only
wondering, as I went to school this morning,
whose bowels of compassion would be
moved in my behalf next. Mother's, I
suspect ; there is that cloth dress with the
yellow spots and blackberry buttons, which
I am destined to get inside of. You,
owing to your remarkable ability in the
dressmaking line, will be called upon for
your valuable opinion, and, mindful of my
broad shoulders, and our last sisterly tiff,
will suggest enormous puffing at the top

of the sleeves, and a corresponding one
round the bottom of the skirt. By the
time you have done experimenting upon
me, you will be qualified for the post of
costumier extraordinary ' to her majesty.
If the Danver population only knew, they
would reverence me as I deserve, for I ama
living, visible proof of how old things
may be made new, and how the seeds of
dissension are painstakingly sown in a
family possessing at least six Bibles, each
and all recommending that — we love one
another."

My dressing had not progressed during
this speech, I was so engrossed listening.
This girl tickled one's ears strangely and
charmingly.

Miss Leetee had not understood half
Mary had said, but from habit she would

go down and complain of her unkindness
and rudeness.

Most sedately Mary preceded us to the
sitting-room, the commanding walk and
we] 1- carried head stamping her at once asa
lady, and one who might, by reason of
her cleverness and sharp tongue, grow up
disagreeable if worried.

Already she had perfected herself in the
art of wordy warfare, and maintained her
calmness and temper very provokingly.
Her face, when seen under the big mushroom
hat, was full of lurking humour and
inward satisfaction.

Mrs. Leetee avoided speaking to her,
and even her father did so restrainedly,
because he knew he was expected to reprove,
and he did not desire to do so.
How much wiser it would have been to
have put matters on the proper footing,

and owned that priority of birth did not
always guarantee an advancement in
intellect.

Very kindly indeed did the Leetes part
with me, and assured me at any time they
would be happy to see me. Then, escorted
by Arthur and Mary, I turned homewards.


Patrick, who was handsome, like his
mother, silly and conceited, had gone to
drill. This Mary told me.

Arthur was the youngest, and very
amorous. Altogether Mary's matter-of-fact
remarks did not come amiss from time
to time. Her '' Now, Arthur, don't be a
goose !" had the most salutary effect. The
conversation was made up of odds and
ends of Danver chatter till we reached the
meadows by the river, and here we met
two ladies.

Mary chuckled.

'' Arthur, how does your heart feel ?
—here are the Pountenys 1"

Arthur's dark face was a dusky red.

'' Mary, you hold your tongue !"

'' Certainly. Fleet as it is, it is a very
sluggard compared with Mamma Pound
Arthur, listen, and never mind
your moustache ! All the hairs are lying
the right way, and that striped shirt makes
you lovely. I will go on with Miss
Sharland, and you can come after
me?"

Yes ; capital idea, Mary, if Miss Shetland
don't mind."

I nearly laughed.

Not in the least ; pray join your
friends."

I wondered what effect he supposed his
feeble charms were likely to have upon

me, to whom a certain ugly face was the
only one in which I had ever seen a
glimfiier of light.

I glanced at the girl by my side. She
had passed the Pountenys with a stiff
move, and left Arthur with them. There
was a scornful expression on her face
now.

'' You don't like those people. Miss
Mary V

'' No, I don't. Annie does, because they
dress well and talk tall. But they will
give that brother of mine the lesson he
needs before they finish with him ; so
perhaps I should not dislike the means to
an end."

I do not understand you."

I did not expect you would ; but you
will easily enough when I have explained.
Arthur is in love with Miss Pounteny, and

he has not wit enough to perceive that
they only tolerate him."

'' Time may induce them to alter their
opinion."

No, it cannot, because the fault rests
with his birth. We are not the aristocracy
of Danver, Miss Sharland, and, consequently,
looked down upon. That does
not signify ; but I would that my brother
had the sense to keep clear of the people
above us, and so escape insult and ridicule."


They may not look at it in the light
you do."

'' They do not, or they would never
place themselves in the position to be
snubbed. Then, when they receive what
they have gone out of their way to obtain,
they are furious ; but even that wears off,
and they plunge in head-first again."

*^ What would you do under similar circumstances
V

'profit by experience, and commit no
two errors of a like nature."

"Will you tell me how old you are,
Miss Mary T

She smiled, and instantly became more
like her father. Their smile was the
brightest I ever saw ; rushing over the
stern faces like a sunbeam, and rendering
them almost too bright to look at. Her
teeth were even, strong, and beautiful in
colour, showing a good constitution.

*^ Fifteen. I wish I had been born after
Robert."

Don't; you will be more useful coming
at the last."

The conversation then turned to literature,
and I was amazed at her varied
information and clear judgment.

I did not imagine one of those brothers
knew a quarter as much. No marvel she
sneered at them, and resented the pressure
they subjected her to.

I could see Upholland standing out from
the trees : ten minutes more and I should
be home.

'^ Will you turn back, or will you come
home with me, Miss Mary ?"

I'll go back, though I should dearly
like to go home with you. Some other
time perhaps, Miss Sharland, I may come."

Certainly. I hope to see you often ; I
am sure we shall be friends. Are you
afraid to go back alone ?"

'' No. Very likely I may meet Arthur,
that is, if that girl has not completely
turned his head — which is addled sufficiently
already."

We parted. When I reached the top of

the hill I looked back, and such good use
had she made of the time, that she was
half-way through the meadows.

Peggy met me at the gate. A gentleman
had called, and left no name.

'^ Then he cannot have had any special
message, so it does not matter."

*what do you think they say, Miss
Grace 1 — that the master is going abroad."

The blood curdled round my heart, and
the pretty old house, the leafy wood, the
fresh fields, all seemed to lose their
beauty.

It may not be true," continued the old
woman, while making the parsley into a
neat bunch ; " but that is what they say
on the farm."

I breathed more freely, and leaving her
plucking, I wandered away into the
orchard.

VOL. n. 20

At the cherry-tree I stopped.

Could it have spoken, its opinion would
have proved valuable. Under its branches
had been enacted a scene that might have
turned the aspect of affairs if reviewed by
uninterested people. It is a cowardly
mistake to look at things from only one
point — naturally you choose the pleasantness
to yourself — and I sifted my brains with
care to try and find another motive for his
conduct than the one my heart affirmed.
1 loved him, and I did not blush or cringe
at the discovery. It is a woman's lot to
love and be loved once, if no more. If
this was my time, if the hour of my agony
had come, I must endure it with fortitude,
and not permit the first love of my life to
deprive me of the delicacy which ought to
be every woman's birthright.

Whether I loved in vain or not, I must

hide my feelings, and manage that others
did not learn my secret.

That battle took me an hour to fiofht ;
at the end of it I saw him walking by the
edge of the wood.

Then I went in and to bed. I prayed
and I slept.

20—2

„KivtRsiTv Of taiycis

You call them thieves and pillagers ; but know
They are the winged wardens of your farm,
Who from the cornfields drive the insidious foe."

My holidays were at hand, and I derived
no scanty satisfaction from that fact. I
wanted the rest : my appetite failed, my
eyes became brighter, and Peggy fidgeted
after me incessantly.

She, kind creature, innocently imagined
that it was the heat and constant tramping
that had knocked me up. I knew that my

mind ^yas vastly more afflicted than my
body. The treatment I subjected myself
to was severe.

I mercilessly laid bare every fault I
possessed — my youth, my poverty; and told
myself that I had been a fool, and deluded
myself with a persistent stupidity for which
there could be no pardon. I had unbidden
taken to my heart a hope, and with it
sweetened my life. I had woven deftly and
cunningly a fabric, and when exposed to
the light every thread in it was — Love. It
was only when I began to unravel it that
I knew the loom had been my own
heart.

He had never been near me ; if he cared,
he would come. I caught the infection
and avoided him, though the corn-fields
attracted me powerfully, and I longed to
creep up the edgeways and gather the

poppies and corn-bottles that grew between.


Inside, the larks and corncrakes made
merry, the small birds swayed and twittered
on the yellow stems, the crickets chirped
through the cracks in the baked earth.
And I denied myself, for I thought I
miofht meet him, and one look would undo
all my work. The cure was not yet complete.
So I idled in the garden, and let
my violin tell, in its own pathetic tones,
my sorrow.

It was hot again, hotter than during
hay-time, and man and beast seemed to
sink under it partially. I felt weak and
inert. Peggy proposed a trip to the seaside.
The plan did not meet with my
approbation. I was suffering just about
enough. To banish myself was too much
agony at once.

One morning, when I awoke, added to
the buzz of bees and insects was another
sound — a burning, whirring noise, with a
click to it.

"■ What is that sound, Peggy '?" I asked,
when she brought me a glass of milk at
six o'clock.

'^ Them grand new reaping - machines
the master got, and paid a lot of money
for. They are cutting the corn. Have
you slept at all, Miss Grace T

*' All nio'ht, PeofOT-"

I could not tell her that I had been
awake at least a dozen times, and dreamt
when I slept.

Will you drink this now, Miss Grace ?"

In a moment, Peggy. Just set it
down."

She did so, and left me. Then I turned
my face into the pillow and sobbed.

I was sick and silly, and I mourned for
the golden grain that had so bountifully
sheltered the songsters, and amongst which
the wind had made such pleasant music,
as only a tired, yearning heart can. I
felt ashamed of the salt tears as soon
as they were shed. But they did me
good.

To-day, for the first time for many, I considered
my appearance — took some trouble
to dress becomingly. My face was thin
and pale, and round my temples I could
trace blue veins.

The sound of the reaping-machines
never ceased, nor did my longing to behold
them.

I sought employment from Peggy, and
found it — slicing beans for dinner. I took
the dish and sat out on the slab, within
sight of the harvesters and sound of the

poultry, who, with the snowy pigeons,
soon gathered round me. Peggy tied a
large apron over my clean dress. The
dish was nearly full, and the speckled hen
had oft into one of the milk-cans, when
PeoTD-v arrived.

'* Miss Grace, here is that gentleman
again asking to see you."

What is his name V

I never asked him. He would not
tell it last time, so I did not think it worth
while to ask this."

I got up and went into the house. At
the very door of the sitting-room Peggy
caught me by the skirt and pulled me back.

You've got the apron on, Miss Grace."

So I had, bib and all.

Laughing at Peggy's face of dismay, I
entered the room, but the smile fled directly
I beheld Mr. Hastings. T guessed what

had brought him : he was going to propose.


We know women who positively like
being proposed to, and for that purpose
deliberately lure men on when they do not
care a straw for them. We are not of
that order. There is not a more delicate
or painful duty than being obliged to tell
a good, honourable man you cannot be his
wife.

1 felt the awkwardness of my position,
and fervently hoped the ordeal might soon
be over. Poor Mr. Hastings ! he tried to
talk upon indifferent subjects, and explained
where he was staying, with a doctor at
Gravely.

It came ere long, that question which to
every man and woman is the great crisis
in life. Nearly every man asks it differently
— some are too cowardly even to

ask it at all: prefer to let the woman's
heart ache itself into numbness, and then
conclude that she could not have ever
really cared.

Thank God such men are few, or the
cowardly blow falls upon women who can
suffer quietly and live broken-hearted!
Be that as it may, we do not often hear of
such men receiving the punishment merited.

Mr. Hastings was a timid man, and
naturally he cringed when offering to
devote himself for ever to another human
being, particularly one with tolerably persuasive
powers and a strong will.

This was my first offer, and I knew no
set phrase. I uttered my feelings, simply
and shortly.

I am sorry you care for me, Mr. Hastings,
for I cannot marry you."

'* You do not love me, then ?"

"No."

Perhaps you might get to love me intime
r

"No, I should not," I answered shivering.
"I know my own heart. I could nevis care
for you as T ought to do. Do not tempt
me, for it is a temptation to one poor and
friendless. You deserve a better wife than
I should make you."

Mentally I contrasted him with Mr.
Lovering, and I felt that good, worthy,
commendable though he might be, he could
never be my master.

Looking at it from a worldly point, my
lack of affection for this man was to be
regretted. He was rich, and sufficiently
amiable to be a pleasant companion.
Married to him, my cares — of one kind
at least — would have ended.

And he loved me ! I was woman enough

to discover that — indeed, he made no effort
to conceal it.

Some men govern themselves too well
to allow their weakness to overtake them,
and become., if anything, colder in the
presence of their love. This may be remarkably
clever, and denote a strong
mind, but it is excessively puzzling and
quite unnecessary.

In loving some woman well enough
to cherish and protect her all your life,
wee can see nothing to be ashamed of, or
mysterious about, and it causes some
dreadful errors that can never be corrected.
A girl subjected to this silence and coldness
will doubt her own heart, and believing
herself mistaken, set up affected indifference.


Mr. Hastings being but a sorry actor,
his passion was suffered to flow on unchecked.

Good little man ! he loved, and
he was not ashamed of it ; and he had (as is
often the case), no tribe of pauper relations
hanofinof like millstones round his neck,
whom to keep in idleness and plenty, he was
obliged to break some other girl's heart.

His weak pleading touched me, and the
temptation to secure for myself ease and
affluence was strong. I will not deny it.
Yet my battle with the world had not
robbed me of my sense of justice, or
deadened my conscience. I dare not sell
myself — and I loved. When a woman of
determination once does that, every other
argument goes for naught.

'^ Please go away, Mr. Hastings ; you
have my final answer."

He went, very sickly-looking, very dejected,
and so ended my first offer. When
he had gone I cried.

I felt as though I had done a very
wicked, heartless thing to refuse him. I
did not know then that hearts were easily
mended.

The sunny days are coming on,
And ere they are departed ;
We will enjoy them, aye, we will.
My friend, my trusty-hearted."

The harvest progresses, and I see the
waving corn cut down and the birds turned
away for a time homeless.

I regret all this necessary devastation.
I shall miss the lights and shades that
played on the fields, the music the wind
made in the oats at nightfall. To a solitary
person Nature has a language more
expressive than any tongue, and with her

unceasing generosity she is kind to those
who seek her companionship.

Mr. Lovering was at home, for I had
seen his straw hat towering above the
others, and heard his strong voice shouting
orders to some far-off workers. We avoided
each other.

Sunday morning.

The sun arose hot and bright, shining
directly upon my bed. I lay awake, enjoying
the perfect quiet that reigned, till
the church bell called to early prayers.

This set me thinking of church. I had
not been for months ; my simple attire had
not reminded the charitable people of Holland
of my existence. Should I go to-day
and thank God that I still lived ? I could
do that at home, and the surest way to
express my gratitude for a continuance of
health and strength was to use them

VOL. IL 21

properly. That I firmly believed I
did.

If I went, I did not know where to sit.
The Upholland pew was, perhaps, amongst
those set apart for the Manor servants.
Co aid I endure the gaze of those grey
eyes for three hours ? No ! But — I hid
my face in the pillow — if I could get into
some part of the church unseen I might
look at him, and that would be no harm.

When the time came I dressed. What
a simple toilet ! any of the farmers'
daughters or servants were superb by comparison.
A soft creamy dress and jacket ;
a black chip bonnet with jet clasps and
gauze strings, and long black gloves.

The dress I had made myself, likewise
trimmed the bonnet after one for a young
widow,

Going to church, Miss Grace ?"

"Yes, Peggy; I think so."

I wish you had some colour in your
cheeks."

It was useless listening to Peggy's
laments ; they had been pretty general of
late. My paleness was a constant eyesore
to her.

It was nearer through the fields, and
cut off a good portion of the dusty road.
I went that way. They had cut avenues
amongst the corn, and to my amazement I
discovered that in the last field the cutting
had not been taken through. There was
a large piece of standing grain between
me and the stile.

Push my way through I would not.
There was only one course : turn back and
make for the road higher up. I was tired,
hot, and vexed. The bells sounded fainter,
as if they intended dropping off altogether

21—2

soon, and since the sun had been scorching
my back my desire to worship had marvellously
diminished.

I began to think I had been very silly
to come out. I repented of my decision ;
I would return, but prior to doing so I
would sit down and recover my breath. I
selected one of the sheaves, and pulling it
out of the sun's direct rays, seated myself
thereon.

I had a fan in my pocket, and with my
sunshade up, my gloves off, and my back
comfortably supported, I certainly might
have been worse off. A rabbit came out
and looked at me curiously, jerking its
tail, and twitching its whiskers in the
sunlight. Suddenly it rushed away in hot
haste, and I wondered what could have
disturbed it ; there was no sound.

In a couple of minutes I heard one— a

regular patter, and Kap came up wagging
his bushy tail. His master could not
be far off. My heart beat ; I was caught
in a trap ; I must face him.

Better do it partially hidden, where I
could make play with my parasol. M}^
legs felt as jerky as bonnie's tail. Rap
came fawning upon me, putting his curled
head into my lap, and blinking his bright
eyes. My caress was quiet, but I kissed him,
one long, loving kiss ! I thought the brute
knew how it was with me, for he stretched
himself by my side. All tremor ceased,
and I became calm. Happily I possess
that power ; when desperate I can check
all outward show of emotion.

His voice was constrained, his utterance
short and rather snubby.

"How do you do. Miss Sharland ? I
had no idea I should find you here."

I laughed.

^' I am quite aware of that."

'' Had you surmised it you would have
instantly taken another direction V

To tell the truth, I am here against
my will, so there is little chance of us
proving pleasant companions."

He was chewing a straw with energy.

*' I don't know that ; why should we
not pass a few minutes in sociable converse
? I am little loath to discard the
opportunity ; fate is not always so generous
to me. It would have been more my
luck to have encountered Miss Rutland
or — one of my sisters. How have you
been lately V

I let my sunshade slip over my shoulder,
and look up.

'' All right," I reply.

All right I all wrong, you mean !

What has made you so pale and

thin r

The heat, I suppose," T make haste
to answer, trying to avoid the searching
eye.

I hear him give a weary sigh, as he
arranges a bundle of corn by my side and
sits down.

'^ Now, Miss Sharland, in the absence
of a more worthy confessor, you had better
confess to me."

I don t think the character of confessor
becomes you, sir."

Why not r

You belong too much to the world to
gain the confidence of the wretched."

He laughed.

You would say I reek of the good
things of this life, and savour not at all of
sacking and ashes. I am not of opinion

that tormenting the body purifies the soul.
I can tell of a keener torture — self-denial."


'rare you practising it V

Yes ; but — I am not sure that I shall
continue to do so. Do you think that the
innocent should suffer for the guilty, even
to perfect a great work, Miss Shetland
r

'' Certainly not ; at any rate, the choice
should be given them. We have no right
to punish each other unlawfully."

I agree with you. I don't think I
will make a martyr of myself any more,
nor of anyone else."

He had taken my hands in his, and
amused himself bending my fingers.

The sour look had gone out of his
face, his eyes had a soft, steady light in
them.

I have not seen you for a long time,"
he remarked, presently.

No. I avoided you, because I do not
like being snubbed, and you are rubbish
now and again."

'nonsense 1 you don't understand. What
makes your face so white ? Those black
strings surely."

So saying, he untied them.

They have nothing to do with it. I
am rather done up with the heat, and so
have not been able to eat very much."

What do you drink — wine ?"

My eyes opened wide in astonishment.
Where did he suppose wine was to come
from ?

'' No ; I hardly ever take any. I like
water better, only just now there is no
getting it cold."

'' Put ice in it."

Here was another difficulty.

I have not got any."

Umph 1 From this time forth consider
yourself the possessor of plenty. I will send
it to you."

'^ Thank you, but "

**No 'buts,' if you please. Can you not
accept such a trifle from me ? Am I so
obnoxious to you that the acceptance of
the least favour is disagreeable ? Or are
you too proud V

Too proud ! How ridiculous such
pride must seem to you, who know my
poverty."

"It does not ; I admire you for it. Buff
admiration to you is no novelty. Perhaps
the consideration necessary for weighing
the pros and cons of a proposal causes
your paleness."

What do you mean, Mr. Lovering ?"

"Exactly what I have said. A proposal."

Instantly the image of little Mr. Hastings
rose in my mind, and I blushed the colour
of a peony. He was watching me, and I
bated myself for colouring. It was only
momentary: soon I was whiter than before.

'' I appear to have made a painful remark,
Miss Sharland. Is it not a case
for congratulation 1"

'' If you allude to Mr. Hastings, it is
not; since he has not had sufficient delicacy
to preserve silence, it is useless for me todo
so."

Nay, nay ; spare poor Hastings ; he
never opened his lips to me. Well for
him he didn't. He confided his passion to
Miriam, whose godson he is, and I concluded
all was amicably arranged. Have
yon refused him ?"

eyes."

'^ Finally ?"

I turned indignantly.

Why ask such a question ? You know
it is impossible I could marry Mr. Hastings."

I know nothing of the kind. Hastings
is possessed of plenty of money, and reckoned
a pleasant fellow."

"Do you want me to marry him ?"

He turned his face away.

Not unless you care for him."

** Then I do not care for him, and never
shall. He is no more to me than "

*' I am ?" he demanded, darting round.

My nerve was all spent. I was reduced
to a state of muteness, my head throbbed.

I did not say so," I stammered ; " I —
I "

My remnant of courage departed, and I
sobbed aloud.

He murmured something about being

sorry, and not meaning to distress me,
and then he got up and walked away.

I cried on, and Rap licked my hand.
When my tears were exhausted, I was
fully alive to the absurdity of my conduct,
and thoroughly ashamed of myself.

I looked about for Mr. Loverinof. He
was standing some distance off, deep in
thought.

Casting my eyes along the hedge, I
perceived various bonnets approaching.
Church was out. I must make my escape,
unless I wished to provide food for scandal.

He turned when I touched him, and
showed me an angry, sullen face, passionate
eyes, as if all the tears were gathered
behind them.

''Oh, it's you," he said, smiling comically.

Who did you think it was V

'the companion of my thoughts — the

devil. Child, how you have cried ! Do
you cry like this often, Grace ?"

No, no," I replied with alacrity.

His tone was so full of compassion, his
eyes of genuine trouble I could not endure
to see his grief. The desire to protect or
comfort this man had taken hold of me.
It seemed what I ought to do — what I
had been sent into the world for. I liked
standing by him silently ; such a good
patient feeling came to me, such contentment.


But those bonnets : every moment they
got nearer, and I could see a flaming scarf
below a beetroot-coloured face, belonging
to some strapping young farmer.

Mr. Lovering — say good-bye to me !
They are all coming out of church, and
they will talk if they see us here 1"

Be damned to them ! Let them go

home and get a stitch put at each side of
their mouths."

He looked.

It's the Turton family, arrayed like
parrots, and chattering as fast. If I walk
away they are sure to see me. "

*^ The best plan is for us to sit behind
the stooks, and trust to what you ladies
believe in — Providence."

We placed ourselves and awaited the
issue. Reason as I would, I could not
get over my objection to being seen. I
was not old or coarse enough to be indifferent
to the public opinion.

They come on, and Mr. Levering laughs
lowly at my anxiety. I think he enjoys
my discomfiture. Mischief dances in his
eye. Inspired by suspicion I cannot control,
I peep round my sheaf and encounter
the bewildered gaze of Billy Turton. I

hastily withdraw my head and flush to the
roots of my hair.

'^ Eh ! — what V ejaculates my landlord ;
'^ who has been watching me *?"

'' No, no," I whisper ; " don't look ; he
the man is gaping over the hedge."

'' He has not seen you."

"I suppose not; but he has seen Kap,
and as we are inseparable, it is as good as
seeing me."

He shook with laughter.

There lay Kap, the innocent and affectionate
cause of our detection.

'' Why do you laugh ? It is no laughing
matter to me. By tomorrow it will be in
everybody's mouth."

Let it — I care nothing. And I will
protect you, not only now, but "

He checked himself, and jumped up.
Presently he turned ; all colour had left

his face, and he was once more master of
himself. The tone was kind, but all love
had flown. Was he a coward, or a
scoundrel ?

Let me assist you to rise, Miss Shetland."


The sun blazed full upon me as I stood.
I felt mv hand taken and held, and I never
looked up. Without another syllable we
parted, and went our different ways.

VOL. II. 22

An autumn day like this hath never been,

The air is still, no breath doth murmur now ;
Yet rustling far and near are falling seen

The loveliest fruits from every leafy bough." |

The corn was reaped, the harvest in, and
thanksgivings had been offered in the
churches. I had gone, and found a corner
beneath the east window. I looked at the
buxom maidens, the stalwart men, all
happy and hearty. I listened to Mr.
Duckworth getting emotional over the
bliss of matrimony and the dignity of
little children. It was all very touching

and pleasant for those likely to experience
either ; but to me, alone in that distant
pew, smarting under a sense of rejection,
it sounded very like mockery.

The Manor pew was empty. Naomi and
Miss Miriam were at the seaside.

I heard with delight the parting benediction,
'^ Now to God the Father," etc.,
and wrenched my back away from the varnished
pew. The people stared at me.
Billy Turton grinned ; he might have made
a grimace for all I cared.

My holidays were over ; my trudging
life had recommenced ; but now my feet
rustled amongst the fallen leaves. Autumn
had arrived, and the woods were arrayed in
coats of many colours.

Danver began to hold up its head. Four
concerts were to be held in the town-hall,
of a superior grade, and the fashionables

22—2

were charmed at the prospect of airing
their toilettes.

The Woods had a box, and invited me
to go with them. I accepted the offer.
I began to find that diversion in a moderate
degree was necessary. My brain
worked too quickly alone in the old housse,
with only the whistling wind to bear me
company.

The concert night was at hand; my
dress was new and becoming, of the colour
poor people find most economical — black.

We were not to have the box to ourselves.
Mrs. Wood had invited the two
Miss Butlers, the late rector's daughters ;
and the curate, the Honourable De Lacy
Jane. Mr. Wood was in London.

I was prepared to enjoy myself, and
mounted the staircase with pleasurable
excitement.

The Miss Butlers cringed and fawned
upon me, much to my amazement ; the
one displaying all her teeth, the other all
her bosom.

I was shocked — rendered miserable.
The heaving billows of flesh, the gross
naked arms and shoulders, from which
the shabby scarlet cloak would slip, giving
the curate an opportunity for incessantly
bending over her, served to make me intolerably
self-conscious, and caused some
men to turn their fishy eyes to our box
repeatedly.

I crouched as far back as ever I could,
hiding myself behind Mrs. Wood's ample
person ; and here the curate discovered
me, and began to persecute me with attentions,
similar, no doubt, to what he
found greedily accepted by the lambs in
his flock.

I had never met such a man before.
Impertinent and presuming to the last
degree; familiar, in a manner offensive.
I felt all my dignity rise, while such a
sense of repugnance laid hold of me, that
it required all my self-control to keep it in
subjection. He cross-questioned me with
a perseverance remarkable, seeing that he
got not one single direct reply. This, however,
his duU-wittedness and estimation
of his own charms prevented him discovering.


My patience began to subside, my indignation
shot lightning into my eyes ;
and with a retort upon my lips that must
have sealed his, I looked up. In the next
box, watching us intently, sat Major Grind,
the chief of police. His keen eyes were
swimming in the water suppressed laughter
had produced.

Every word he had heard. My annoyance
he appeared to share, but if ever I
read expression rightly, his advised me to
take no notice of the man.

Smiling in return, I rose and stood
nearer the front. Soon I discovered the
Leetes in the stalls. Annie looking very
pretty indeed. Mary was not there.

Silly though it was, the curate with his
presumption and bad breath had spoiled
my concert. Vexed and disappointed, I
followed Mrs. Wood, and stood against one
of the pillars in the hall. Constance
chatted to me about the music.

Miss Sharland, do you know that
gentleman has scarcely taken his eyes off
you for the last ten minutes T'

*' We have not been here ten minutes,
Constance ; but where is the gentleman
?

'' There, near the lady in amber satin."

I looked ; it was Mr. Lovering.

Quickly all vexation vanished, and I
became gladder than glad. I could not
help my face brightening, and a smile
parting my lips.

My hands slipped into his of their own
accord, as if they had every right there ;
and what did I care for the people ?
Nothing. I would have bartered the
opinion of the whole community for the
fast, close clasp of those strong hands —
the look of unalloyed pleasure that overspread
his face. Others called the harsh,
lined countenance ugly; in my sight it
was more than beautiful, because I saw
in it every quality I admired, every indication
of a nature I believed as perfect
as any man's can be. His character, by
reason of its stern peculiarities and incalculable

turns, attracted me. I had met
my master.

** I wish I had known you were here,"
he cried, looking at me approvingly.

I was in Mrs. Wood's box."

*^ And I alone in ours I You might
have come and instructed me respecting
the music. I know nothing of it."

Ere I could reply Mrs. Wood hurried up.

Miss Sharland, will you come with
Constance in a fly ? I am going to take
my sister and Ethel. Richard shall call
you one now."

^' Good-bye, Mr. Lovering ; I must go."

*•' So must I."

He came to the door, and stood keeping
off the crowd with his arm while wee were
put into the cab.

We dashed off.

My hand still tingled after his clasp,

when we sustained a fearful shock ; the
windows were shattered, and the carriage
tilted up at one side. We were impaled
on the shafts of a hansom, which
had charged directly into us from a side-street.
A confusion of tongues and lights,
and unwelcome attempts on the part of
several street cads to pull Constance and
me out of the carriage. The sham
jewellery, and breaths reeking of bad
tobacco and drink, roused me to a sense
of the class of animal we had luckless
fallen amongst.

They were a new species of blackguard,
and I knew not how to manage them.
The leering, insolent faces thrust so close
to ours, the thick voices offering protection,
suggested further impertinence if
not checked. Had they been coal-heavers
or ploughmen, I would have trusted myself

amongst them. But these men were the
very lowest and most objectionable of
mankind.

I looked for the cabman. They, having
exhausted their curses, had commenced
fighting. A dirty, clammy hand, garnished
with rings, was laid on my arm. The touch
of a reptile would have been as pleasant.

Indignantly I jerked it off, and exerting
all my courage I bade them stand aside.
Constance was crying hysterically. Another
voice followed mine.

'^ Clear the road there I what do you
mean by stopping the traffic ?"

There was the big Manor carriage, with
Mr. Lovering leaning out of the window.
Our need was too great for me to recollect
caution, and I called to him in genuine
terror.

In a second he was at the door.

'' Now, by all there

wasted no more words, but put us
into his carriage.

Where to, sir V asked the footman.

Home."

No, no. To Mrs. Wood's. We must
go there."

The master never uttered a word, but
pulled his moustache ; the servant shut the
door, and the carriage turned round. I
knew the hard determined expression only
too well.

'' I have half a mind," he panted, '' to
take you home. It is almost too much to
expect from mortal. I see the necessity
for a guardian, and I am prohibited "

I purposelessly misunderstood him.

The danger is past now. We had
rather a fright, and Miss Wood seems unable
to cease weeping."

He turned in her direction, but made no
remark.

'' Are you afraid ?"

Not now."

For answer I got a passionate kiss on
my arm as we dashed up to Mrs. Wood's
pretentious door.

Constance got out hurriedly, only too
well pleased to be at home.

I could not, for he held me.

You are coming home tomorrow V

Yes, tomorrow."

With a bow that was fashionable a
hundred years ago, he left us.

A thousand steps must a woman take,
Where a man but a single spring will make."

The Wood family were in a state of excitement
pitiable to behold. Mrs. Wood was
standing in the midst of her guests rapidly
giving perplexing orders, and as rapidly
countermanding them.

The footman had been despatched in one
direction, the coachman, buttons, and
several maids in others, all seeking tidings
of us.

They're here, mum, they're here !"

cried a number of voices, rushing on before
us.

'* Miss Sharland," exclaimed the agonised
and outraged parent, in the most commanding
tone her breathless condition would
permit, ** how could you, at this hour of
night, remain out, and with Constance f

*' I had nothing whatever to do with it,
Mrs. Wood. We met with an accident,
and were detained."

T felt too annoyed to be explicit, and
Constance continued :

"Yes, and I do not know what would
have become of us but for Mr. Lovering.
A party of intoxicated men pounced upon
us out of that public-house in Crib Street,
and surrounded the cab."

I saw Mrs. Wood's jaw drop, and her
civility returned.

I afterwards learnt that a brother of

hers had been ruined through frequenting
that said pubic-house.

Of quiet appearance, and situated in a
respectable street, it was the favourite
haunt of the fast young men of Danver,
who betted, gambled, drank within its
walls.

That little house had its hideous hidden
stories of blighted lives and ruined homes,
so sad in their silent misery, so reproachful,
that by comparison any flaming hell in
London stood forth as innocent.

Whether the shabby house had disgorged
the demons who capered round our
crippled cab I could not be positive, but I
thought it possible that in daylight, andes
soberer moments, they might each and
all be owned by the so-called aristocracy,
of Danver.

When next Mrs. Wood mentioned Mr.

Lovering to me, it was to relate in a
marked manner the strange life he had
led, and the reports circulated about him.

She spoke pointedly, as if seeking to
impress upon me the true character of my
'friend," as she termed him. Had Constance
been on the alert behind her pocket-handkerchief?


Very likely ; and seen the kiss given
that had rushed straight into my heart.

How jealous I was of that atom of
white flesh where his lips had rested ! how
utterly I loved that man in my secret
soul I how weighed against one desire of
his the world to me was light as air ! He
was my world.

Without him I could and would live ;
but I could not live the life that makes all
things perfect, and heaven seem but a little
way off.

VOL. II. 23

The concerts were ended, and I was at
home, my finery laid reverently away in
the old press upstairs.

The last concert had not been good, so
the judges affirmed, and T concurred with
them ; it had not been good to me in any
sense.

Mr. Lovering was not there, to my
knowledge ; and the late rector's daughters,
with the true spirit of Christianity and
generosity which seems so abundantly
diffused throughout the clergy and their
families, had snubbed me.

Since our first meeting they had learnt
my position, and were doubtless excessively
astonished at Mrs. Wood for having brought
me.

Perhaps the unpleasant attention the
Hon. De Lacy Vane persisted in offering
me had something to do with it. Be that

as it may, the next time we met I was as
the dust beneath their feet.

The smart these women inflicted only
served to remind me of a decision come to
previously ; namely, that while I retained
my pride I could not visit with the class
amongst whom I earned my living. I
must associate with those either above or
below me.

I reasoned that my pride was absurd,
yet I was powerless to alter it.

"No, not hate thee ! for this feeling
Of unrest and long resistance

Ts but passionate appealing,

A prophetic whisper stealing

O'er the chords of our existence."

One afternoon I came in cold and weary,
to learn that, had I been five minutes
earlier, I should have found the Misses
Lovering waiting for me. I was later
than usual ; I had been shopping.

They could not stay any longer, but
Miss Naomi left word she wished very
particularly to see me.

I

I did not receive this intelligence very
graciously. I felt little inclined to tramp
to the Manor.

Upon second thoughts, however, I resolved
to go. If anything unpleasant, it
had better be got over; if some good news,
I could not afford to keep it standing.

"I am going to the Manor, Peggy," I
called, as I pulled the door after me.

Some reply was made, which I did not
catch.

Miss Miriam and her sister were busy
making up their parish books and arranging
the clothing club. They were pottering
over it, poor old things, and looking very
worried. I earnestly hoped they were not
going to solicit my aid. I disliked calculating,
and above all, having to tell some
other person that I thought their reckoning

With as much eagerness as a child would
display at an unexpected means of escape
from a tedious task, Miss Miriam hailed
my advent. Her fingers were inked, her
hair tumbled.

''My dear, I am so pleased you are
come I I hardly expected you would, after
such a walk as you have every day. I
cannot think how you do it ; it is bad
enough to be obliged to settle these tiresome
books every quarter. If I knew that
I had to perform a certain task each day,
I should never sleep for thinking of it.
But sit down, and Jones shall bring you a
glass of wine."

'' No, thank you," I responded, my heart
yearning for, and my throat getting dryer
as I recollected, the great cup of tea with
which I was wont to refresh myself '' I
don't think I will sit, if you will excuse

me, Miss Naomi. Peggy said you wished
to see me."

*ewe do. We are desirous of making
some little difference in the church music
this Christmas, and Mrs. Duckworth suggested
what an acquisition you would be.
You, with your excellent voice, and knowledge
of music, would put into the poor
things the spirit they lack, and something
special might be learnt. William says we
do not march with the times."

I was unprepared for such a proposal,
and therefore silent.

''Do you object 1" asked Miss Miriam;
'' sister does not seem to have thought of
that."

No. I hardly think I do ; but I am
not clear what is expected of me. I have
the greatest dislike to meddling with other
people's affairs, and hitherto Mrs. Duck-worth

and her daughters have managed
the music, and I am convinced they have
been satisfied with the issue, whatever
anyone else has."

^^Yes, you are perfectly correct' said
Miss Miriam. " But the proposal comes
from Mrs. Duckworth herself. So you
see, my dear, you need fear no opposition."

*rand why did not Mrs. Duckworth
speak to me ?"

*' I really cannot tell," replied Miss
Miriam, looking excessively uneasy.

*' Then I can. She knew she would get
the refusal she deserved. I will not assist
Mrs. Duckworth. Revengeful I may be, J
I pretend to no excellence in any respect ;
but I am not hypocrite enough to be on
apparently friendly terms with a woman I
despise. I will have nothing whatever todo
with her or her family, however long I

remain here. She has not behaved to meas
a Christian — which she professes to be
should have done, or as her position as
the ministers wife required her to do.
She has only been to see me once — her
husband not at all — and that once a visit
of scrutiny, so ill-timed and impertinent
that I have never forgotten it. Her
daughters she left outside, doubtless dreading
the evil influence I might exercise over
their morals. Her need of help may be
great, but it is small compared to her
insolence in asking aid from me now,
when in my necessity she passed me by
with a heartless unjust caution in the
form of a tract such as one gives to the
abandoned creatures tabooed from society."

'dear me I How could she !" ejaculated
the astonished ladies.

I curbed my wrath, and added :

*' At any time I will do what little I
can for you, Miss Lovering, but I decline
to associate with Mrs. Duckworth in the
tiniest matter."

To be sure. We quite understand and
fully appreciate your decision. She ought
to be ashamed of herself; and I think she
has behaved ill to me in getting me to
perform what she evidently did not like
doing herself We have always wished
she had a more agreeable manner, and
Mr. Lovering laughs at her; but then,
he is very severe and uncertain in his
humours. He is hardly in the same mind
two days together, and it is apt to lead to
misunderstandings. That reminds me, he
had better be told you are here."

He was told, and came in — I saw directly
in a rattling temper. He likewise had
been writing, for a pen was stuck in his curls.

You are going to stop ?" he asked,
hurling the invitation at me.

"No. I am just going home ; so I will
say good-bye, Mr. Lovering."

He looked at me fixedly.

I am going to the farm myself."

While I made my adieus to the sisters
he put on a coat, and we went off. Clear
of the house, he turned and asked hastily :

Who did you meet as you came 1"

'' No one.'

'' No one ! Are you sure '?" questioned
he, fixing his keen eyes upon mine, which
I had raised in bewilderment.

Quite sure. Whom should I meet ?"
"How should I know?" he responded,
with the savage laugh of his I so dished
and distrusted. It sounded like some
mocking fiend gloating 'over the strife
that raised in the heart of the man tor-merited.

While it impressed me with a
sense of discomfort it roused me to retaliation.
A spirit of combativeness laid hold
of me, and I retorted sharply :

You are out of temper."

'' No."

We had been tearing along in the twilight.
I stopped now breathless.

He did not miss me at once ; perhaps
he spoke, and getting no reply looked forme.
I was not supremely glad when he came
back for me. His mood was a peculiar one,
and produced in my mind strange doubts
I could not express. The evil that held him
in bondage had some power over me —
a power which my whole nature revolted
against. I was affected through my love
for him. He might influence me, but jot
this possession — this devil, that when inforce
warped and distorted his entire

nature, even his face. I looked into it
now. There was a quiver round the stern
mouthy and some little regret in the eye.

^'Havel been walking too quickly for you?"

'^ You have been going along like an old
rate-horse."

He laughed genuinely this time.

Not a bad hit, that, Miss Sharland. I
am sure you will agree with me, that it
hurts a man to suppress his wrath. Much
better let it have its course."

Perhaps — providing it is the proper
one. Bat I am not conscious of deserving
your anger ; yet you flew at me with the
greatest zest about meeting some person."

Well, well, I apologise. I thought

you might have met Robert Arno, Esq ,

of Speckled Farm. Do you know him V

*' Never heard of him. I think I told

you before that I knew no one."

'* Yes, I think you did " (he evinced
delight) ; " but I thought, perhaps your
father might have known him."

The idea of my poor and absurdly proud
parent exerting himself to make the acquaintance
of Sj farmer so tickled my fancy
that 1 laughed.

I don't see the joke. Miss Sharland."

"Very probably not, Mr. Lovering, as
you were but slightly acquainted with my
father. Had you been a friend you might
have known that the noble race he belonged
to are not likely to find solace or
companionship in the fellowship of a
farmer''

He started as if I had shot him.

*' You never told me — who are your
people ?"

What occasion was there to tell
you i

a XT.

None, I allow ; but would you mind
telling me now ?"

'' Not very much. The Earl of Arlington
was my grandfather."

Silence for several moments. Then came
the deliberate question :

Why do you not go to them V

'' Because it is their duty to come to me.
It is more than probable, though, that they
are not aware of my existence. After my
father's marriage he had no intercourse
with his family."

^^Whyr

'^ His marriage was in their eyes a
heinous crime. He dared, Mr. Levering,
to marry the woman he loved, though she
was not his equal by birth. My mother
was gently born, clever, and industrious.
She earned her living by teaching music ;
and it was at a fashionable gathering they

met. She was singing to amuse the aristocratic
assembly, as I have done, and will do
again. Their story was like many another
couple's, they fell in love — the only difference
being that they had the courage to
brave fortune and get married, and were
not ashamed to let their love be seen. I
reverence and admire them for following
God's law, for preferring the ^ dinner
of herbs ' to the * stalled ox.' But it had
been reckoned more prudent had they
parted and forgotten their love."

'tell me why . |

Worldly people, those sharp and successful
in it, say love is a mistake, that
money is the thing to marry for."

You will marry for that, I suppose
?"

'never. But I was talking of my
parents, not of myself They could have

done with money. It was necessary to
my father ; he had never been brought upto
work."

'' This is a queer world, Miss Sharland ;
and your fate is one of its oddities,"

You do not know my fate any more
than I do. It may be sudden death, or
starvation."

'^ Neither' he uttered huskily; 'you
may have to run a tight race, but you will
come in winner. Unless those noble lords
and ladies gather round you and bear you
off."

'* I cannot see what they are likely to
have to do with it."

*' Nor I ; only things have a way of
going contrary to one's wishes and expectations,
that makes a fellow rage now and
again."

The bad humour was routed, and I drew

VOL. II. 24

towards him, attracted as every woman is
once in her Hfe.

You are not cross now, sir V

Not a bit. You have soothed me ; this
cold Httle hand of yours, with its firm,
gentle touch, would tame a — devil. And
I am not that, am I ?"

'^ A little like one sometimes ; and —
and "

^^ And what r

'^ You are very contradictory."

*' So I have heard before. It is quite
impossible always to be in the same mood ;
sometimes a good angel, at others a bad
one, rules our intentions. Will you try to
think as well of me as you can. Miss
Sharland T

I dare not trust myself to speak. I
knew my voice must betray me, and no
true woman ever tells a man quite how
much she loves him before marriage.

We had reached the gate, and I saw the
firelight glowing ruddily on the walls of
my sitting-room.

He opened the gate.

*' Is it any use asking you to come in,
Mr. Levering ?"

'^ Great use ; but I must go round and
see Chapman. Some one must go to
Yarmouth market in the morning."

*' Are you coming, then V^

Not just at present."

Then I had better say good-bye."

Good-bye, Miss Sharland, and thank
you for your company."

He stood and watched me in.

24—2

^' The sea hath its pearls,

The heaven hath its stars,
But my heart, my heart,
My heart hath its love."

Some wise experienced young lady may
say these meetings and queer attempts at
love were very unsatisfactory. I grant it ;
but they were in accordance with the
man's strange character — rather in unison
with my taste also.

I should have been wearied with a devoted
lover, who hung on my every word
and look, and a rhapsody of affection would

have excited my ridicule. I was being
wooed in the only manner likely to win
me, and the spicy retorts and uncertainty
of result served excellently to keep him
an object of interest to me.

I was not excessively impulsive, and my
confidence in his love for me was now too
perfect to render a positive declaration of
that same necessary. I was contented to
wait. Mrs. Duckworth did not call, and I
heard no more of the music I

With the exception of the Leetes, I had
no friends. To their house I often went,
and they came to me ; Mary frequently
spending the night with me. Her society
was to me a boon. Never being accustomed
to companionship of my own age, I
had formed a rash opinion that I should not
derive either benefit or amusement from it.
I now found out my error.

Mary Leetee was older than her years,
yet not in a pedantic way. Her ideas
were natural enough as belonging to a girl
of singular determination and intelligence.


One thing struck me as extraordinary,
her prophetic tendency. It is called
*' second-sight," literally it is '^ first." I
have listened to her till all superstition
vanished, and I looked upon it as simply
the reading of a person with remarkably
long sight.

There was nothing sensational about
her foretelling respecting people and
things. They were plain, unvarnished
utterances, that carried with them the
stamp of reason and common sense so
unmistakably that you Averse compelled to
hearken.

Mary, how do you know these things?"



I asked one night, after she had told me a
person's character and probable career.

'* I cannot tell you. Perhaps I understand
more readily because I have watched
people so closely. I only know that such
things are and will be, and when they
actually happen I feel as if it was something
I had seen or heard before."

I regarded her narrowly. Could her
brain be playing any tricks ? No ; not
even excitement dwelt in that quiet
nature. The dark eyes had a pleased,
happy light in them ; the cheek scarcely a
tino^e in it. Nevertheless I asked the
question :

'rare you well? do you think your
nerves are not in fault 1"

She laughed.

You had better not name such a thing
at home, unless you want them to think

you are mad. My knowledge springs
from no unduly excited state of either
mind or body. It is merely a process of
computation that will work whether I like
it or not. They do not suppose at home
that I have two ideas to knock against
each other."

But your papa, Mary — he knows V
'* My papa ? Well, he may ; he has
sense. Poor papa ! but then he has to
think for the whole family — mother and
all — so no wonder he postpones the additional
burden of me as long as possible.
I am not on anyone's mind, I can assure
you, unless it is ^ Sam's,' because I give
him bones, and take him to bathe. Sam
is the mill dog, you know, Miss Shetland."


*^ Indeed, and a great protection, doubtless
?"

Yes ; but I think a strange dog would
not be out of place there."

'' Why r

Oh, Sam knows everybody too well ;
and there is one practice I should like to
stop."

'^ What is that?"

"That of the boys sneaking out after
they have gone to bed."

'' How do they get out, Mary T

Through the kitchen window, and outby
the mill. Sam never barks. All the
time, you must know, the window and
gate are open, and Sam the only guard."

'^ How did you get to know of it T

I do not sleep very well, and one night
I went down to the kitchen fire, and then
made the discovery."

"And what did your brothers say T

"They do not know I watched them.



I would have told mamma or Annie, but
they snub me so, and take everything
the wrong way. So 1 just held my
tongue."

I am inclined to think you have taken
the wisest course, Mary."

She smiled.

I wish I could be sure of that. However,
it is no use, Miss Sharland. Mamma
always takes the boys' part, so no good
can be done for them."

I changed the subject. It seemed so
odd to hear this girl expressing wise
opinions, yet scorned by her family, who
ought to have prized and cherished such
an uncommon character.

Mary Leetee would be a valuable friend ;
a dreadful enemy. Her affection and will
was as strong now as that of any woman
of thirty. She was attractive — peculiarly

SO — having the readiest comprehension
and widest sympathy.

Her visits always did me good, and I
missed her : the first person who had ever
made themselves in the least degree necessary
to me. I began to wish I had
a sister, just such another, intelligent,
tranquil, reliable.

Depend upon it, a human being who,
having no right to your regard, so appeals
to your memory and feelings, is one in a
thousand, and above the average.

It may be that no life is found,
Which only to one engine bound
Falls off, but cycles always round."

"The Manor has visitors again."

So said Peggy, and I inclined my head
by way of assent.

I might have forgotten the circumstance
had not a note arrived ; and this was the
tenor of it : Would I spend an evening
with them, selecting the one most agreeable
to myself?

I was not much inclined to make the



desired choice, but prudence whispered
that it was wiser to make friends than
enemies, and to keep them when got.

Accordingly I went. Mr. Lovering was
in London.

The company was well selected and I
found that many of them were staying
over Christmas ; amongst that number were
Mrs. Fantail and Clem.

I was weary enough to be silent ; and,
after the necessary greetings were over, I
was allowed to enjoy myself in a corner
in the manner most pleasant to myself.
The one who afforded me the greatest
amusement was Mrs. Norton, whose
husband — an officer — was the author and
promoter of every species of frolic.

Mrs. Norton, a childless young wife,
was perfectly indolent. No interest did
she take in anything but her dinner and

gossip. She devoted her whole energies
to these two elevating pastimes : no
wonder her success with both was complete.
She seemed amiable, and as fond
of her good-natured husband as a person
of such phlegmatic temperament can be.

She was rich, and that rendered her
preservation essential in her husband's eye,
who had nothing but his pay. How much
he cared for her, I should be sorry to say;
as a woman, he tolerated her ; as an investment,
he prized her highly. My
silence and passiveness rendered me a
good listener, therefore she affected me
immensely.

T did not object, for I soon discovered
what a small part I had to play. She
merely required my presence, and an occasional
"yes," or 'indeed." Consequently
I was at liberty to drop Mrs. Norton when

I chose, and follow my own thoughts. At
the same time I was grateful to the lazy
fat creature, for she fenced off intruders
effectually. The company were all handsome,
well behaved, and contented, owing
to stout purses and the means of indulging
any whim. Brains they were not inconvenienced
with, and yawns would rise
which, in my efforts to strangle, forced
tears into my eyes.

In a shady corner and screened partially
by Mrs. Norton's fat, ivory-hued shoulders,
I congratulated myself upon escaping boredom
remarkably well. From my fortification
I had listened to love-songs in French,
German, and Italian, all equally atrociously
rendered, and of ridiculous import. I had
chuckled at the flirtations that were enacted
under the very noses of drowsy duennas,
and been rather amazed hy various pieces

of duplicity one might have supposed
beneath the fair maidens.

Mrs. Norton's babble and my watching
were simultaneously interrupted by cries
of ''Bj all means," 'delightful' ^'A J
capital idea, Major Norton."

What can Charlie have been saying ?"
gasped his corpulent spouse, opening her
tiny eyes inquisitively.

Her chair was a low one, and somewhat
difficult to rise from, or I believe she would
have gone to see.

Patience is said to be always rewarded,
and in this instance it proved so. The
knot of talkers descended upon us ; Miss
Miriam in the centre of them.

Mrs. Norton, are you good at acting V
cried Miss Rabey.

^' I don't think she is," replied her
husband, giving her the 'ego-by" very

neatly. " Miss Sharland seems more the
style."

Seeing that something was expected of
me, I did not strive to anticipate their
communication.

We are trying to get up a play, my
dear," explained Miss Miriam, by far the
coolest of the party, '^ and hope you will
join us."

Yes, if I am likely to be of any use.
I have had no experience."

'' That is of no consequence, I assure
you," chimed in Major Norton ; " sometimes
a great advantage. Miss Sharland.
When we are properly organised, we shall
spin along famously. The next question
is, what shall we play ?"

Suggestions were made in plenty, and
met with instant condemnation from our
leader, the major.

VOL. II. 25

In the end Mrs. Norton proposed a
piece entitled ^* For Ever."

This carried the day, and '^ For Ever '*
was decided upon.

There was not very much time, the
night fixed for the performance being the
23rd, the Tuesday before Christmas Day.

The dress department was not very
difficult to manage. The piece being a
domestic one, our wardrobes would supply
all we required with very slight alterations.
My character was the least pleasing one,
and I set my mind upon having it because
I cared nothing about my appearance or
success, and the other ladies did. Moreover,
it was rather a melancholy part, and
all recoiled from it alike, married and unmarried,
probably a little superstitious.

The character is that of a young widow
whose husband is drowned while fishing in

Ireland. She loves him dearly, and refuses
several offers. It is well she does so, for
at the end of a year he returns. He was
rescued by some peasants, and carried insensible
to their cabin up in the mountains.
There he lay ill with brain fever, which so
weakened his intellect that he recollects
nothing. In time his memory returns,
and he hastens home, a prey to the most
terrible fears lest his young wife should
be dead, or married. Round the poor
dejected widow there is a constant fire of
mirth and flirtation, very alluring to the
young ladies and gentlemen ; and therefore
the widow was always taken by either an
elderly or indifferent lady. It was by no
means an attractive character, and when I
agreed to take it, everyone seemed relieved.


My reason for selecting it was indiffer-

25—2

once, and the dress. I had no lavishly-stocked
wardrobe, and could not have got
up a toilet suitable for the other characters.

When I had conquered my part I liked
it, and felt that I could make something
more of it. The sincerity, the love that
lasted '^ for ever," was so exactly what I
approved of that it seemed like a corner
of my own heart revealed, and no imitation
of somebody else's. I only came to
rehearsal once, when Major Norton complimented
me, and politely goaded the
others on.

My one drawback was the husband
whom I had to embrace and display deep
affection for. He was a good-looking
man — Frank Bancroft, master of the
hounds. I thought he appeared too much
in earnest, but then that ensures good
acting, so what matter ?

During my one visit 1 saw Mr. Lovering.
He came into the library and criticised.
Mrs. Fantail as the aunt, Lady
Haigh, played elaborately, and drew
from him some well-turned compliments.
My performance he overlooked : rather
snubbed me, in fact, and stopped Major
Norton with a curt :

"To be sure, Miss Sharland does everything
well, or not at all."

I was provoked, though I had no reason
to be. I hastened my movements, and
wrapped my cloak about me.

*' Not going, surely ?" exclaimed Mr.
Bancroft, arresting my hand.

Yes, going ; in a second shall be gone,
Mr. Bancroft."

*' Let me accompany you. It is dark.
Miss Sharland."

I laughed as I thought of the many

dark, lonely journeys I had made. But
to have refused his escort would have
created a discussion and attracted everyone's
attention.

"What, hatless, coates, in December,
Mr. Bancroft T

'^ No ; I will get them directly."

I let him go, and then I went. In the
hall I met the old butler.

*^ Will you tell Mr. Bancroft when he
comes that I have changed my mind, and
will go alone ?"

Yes, mari."

This man's face vas familiar to me ;
when a child I had watched him in church.
In those days his hair had been arranged
with care, and a sausage roll adorned the
top of his head. Now there was no hair
to curl, his pate was bald, and a scanty
fringe of white bore witness to his age,



though his rubicund countenance might
have puzzled anyone.

Turning from the servant, I saw the
master standing Hastening. He had heard
all, and I was glad.

My name'is|Nobody. What favour now
Shall I receive to praise you at your hands V

The night of the play arrived. Intense
cold had set in ; there was every appearance
of a severe and lasting frost. The
fowls were huddled together along with
the geese and turkeys — ignorant, poor
things ! of their pending doom — beneath
the stacks and round the kitchen door
long before darkness came on. The small
birds sought shelter in the leafless hedges
and trees, twittering plaintively as they

J

tucked their head and one leg under their
ruffled feathers, and went to their slumbers.
The Manor carriage was to come forme,
and I stood before the roaring logs,
waiting its arrival. My dress in the first
scene was a grey cashmere, and I looked
in my own eyes a very wifely person.

My widow's dress and cap Peggy had
put in my box. I was to stay all night at
the Manor. Had she dared she would
have torn the dress into shreds. Her
superstition, her terror, exceeded anything
I had ever beheld.

^' O Miss Grace ! how came you to say
you'd play the widow ? You little know
the evil that springs from mocking at a
sorrow; it just tempts Providence to let
you feel its weight. God send you may
not be the widow of some one in that room
this night I"

This speech merited a sharp retort, and
I had one on the end of my tongue
when a starting knock announced the
carriage. I entered it, and was swiftly
borne to the house where Peggy's imagination
foretold I should repent having
acted the widow.

We were not late, yet the avenue was
thronged with carriages. There would bea
great meeting, and for the first time I
trembled at my undertaking. It was buta
passing fear ; the silliness of quaking at
the last moment made me ashamed of
myself.

But to remain boxed up waiting my
turn at the front door was another ridiculous
trick, when my fellow-actors might
be waiting for me. I put my head out of
the window.

Can you not go to a side or back

door? I am not certain I may not be
needed."

Yes, mari ; if you don't object, we
can go round instead of setting down
here."

Then please to go''

We went, and I alighted amongst a
crowd of servants of both sexes. There
was Mrs. Norton's German maid spluttering
and gasping to a select circle of admirers
; others were hurrying to and fro
with cups and plates.

Somebody's valet was displaying the
symmetry of his form in an elegant attitude,
with his master's pants and brocaded
vest hanging over his arm. All round
there was excitement, confusion, eating
and drinking, and gossip.

James made a passage for me between
this herd of over-fed, impudent creatures,

and I emerged at the foot of the staircase.
There I met another throng consisting of
Mr. Bancroft, several ladies, and Mr.
Lovering.

*^ Here she is !" gasped Mr. Bancroft,
rushing towards me with so much theatrical
rapture that I thought he must be
going to anticipate the performance, and
recoiled.

Mr. Lovering observed it, and a smile
of much meaning twisted his big mouth
for a second.

They are out inquiring for you, Miss
Sharland," said Mr. Lovering, in his
coldest tones.

Am I then so late ?"

** Pray don't ask me. I am not affected
with this dramatic fever, and take little
interest in the affair, save when I am required
to rouse the joiners to greater

efforts : a thing these gentlemen don't
seem able to accomplish."

*' Come now, Lovering, give every
fellow his due' said Major Norton, who
had just come up out of breath and heated;
YOU knows you have a talent exclusively
your own for dispersing idlers and infusing
fresh energy into their blood."

A burst of laughter followed this observation,
everyone being acquainted with
Mr. Lovering's method ; at the conclusion
Miss Clem remarked softly :

'^ You terrified me to-day when you
were raisins" at that man, Mr. Lovering.
If ever you spoke so to me I — I should
die:'

Ease your mind, fair lady. If your
death alone depended upon that event, you
would have a very long life."

A languishing smile was his reward.

She was elated by this reply ! then she
had read it differently from me. To me
it hinted at repulsion too exquisite for
words.

With the most bewitching gesture she
strove to detain him, but with a curt
'' Excuse me " he shook off her hand, and
hastened away in the direction oi faint
hammering.

Business now commenced in earnest.
The audience was arriving fast. Runners
kept startling us with accounts of their
magnitude and the brilliant aspect of the
mimic theatre. The stage was erected in
the second drawing-room, filling the entire
archway. Scenery, drapery, and other
stage effects were supplied by a man in
London, whom Major Norton had recommended.


Had I known the extent of the undertaking

I would never have ventured to
take part in it. Innocently enough I
supposed it would be nothing more than a
well-arranged charade. My ignorance had
led me into a fine trap, and I must do my
best to sustain my credit. To be overtaken
by timidity now would only expose
me to ridicule, and elicit no one's sympathy.


A whisper and a meaning smile exchanged
between Mrs. Fantail and her
niece rouse the trifling atom of determination
that had remained latent. I hould
succeed, if only to disappoint them. We
were dressed for our parts, and congregated
in a room behind the stage, proudly
designated the 'green-room."

I looked round vainly for the master, in
whose stern face I would read some encouragement.
He was not there. Major

Norton, under whose guidance we were,
had wisely stripped the room of all idlers.

The first scene was in the drawing-room
of my husband's aunt, Lady Haigh,
with whom I, Dora Hope, had arranged
to stay during my husband's absence.
Nothing could have been prettier than
this scene. There were plenty on the
stage, the dresses were elegant, the conversation
animated.

My part was not very cheerful. Having
bade adieu to my dear Charlie in the face
of all people, I might reasonably weep a
little behind a deeply lace-edged handkerchief.
While doing this, and bending
over a vase of exquisitely scented flowers,
I surveyed the company. The immense
room was full, gentlemen lined the walls,
filled the doorways. Even the conservatory
was packed wherever a view of the

stage was available. Never before had I
seen so gay a concourse of people. My
eyes ached, my heart beat.

They were all as nothing to me ; I only
sought one face, and found it, scowling
malignantly, with its grim iron mouth
compressed, and the sharp eyes fixed upon
me with a force that seemed to search my
heart for its inmost motive. Was he
vexed ? I had acted well ; I had bidden
my husband farewell with as much fervour
as if I had loved him. I had looked up
into the handsome face with all the
earnestness I could muster ; and the expression
in my theatrical husband's told
me it had done its work effectually.

I saw what I had done, and I sickened
for a second as I thought how this young
man was being deluded to enhance my
glory. It was merely acting, nothing

VOL. II. 26

more ; he and everyone must understand
that. No woman could act so with the
man she loved, unless they were married.

Major Norton commended my performance
loudly, declared I was a finished
actress, and ought to turn such talent to
account. Mr. Bancroft hovered near, and
whispered that to act so one must
feel

I was indifferent, too occupied with my
part and determination to crush the envious
plotting women sneering round me,
or I might have contradicted him, and
stopped the mischief then. Perhaps I
cared nothing. We all have to take our
spell of suffering, and it was Frank Bancroft's
turn. I had endured enough.
That man, capricious as the wind, more
fascinating than angel or devil, had lured
me out of the paths of tranquillity, and

I



cast me upon troubled waters, a feverish,
heart-sore woraan.

No benignant power had come to help
me ; I was somebody else's scapegoat ;
why not make Frank Bancroft mine ? It
eased my heart to put my arms round him,
and seeing another's face in his, utter the
love that was crushing the life in me. I
was possessed — mad.

I had always known the danger of
bending all the force of my will upon one
point; I gained it, and often would have
relinquished it two hours after without a
regret.

Let me pass over the intervening scenes,
in which, small as my part was, I carried
every atom of sympathy with me, engaged
every eye and ear in that vast company.
Anger, jealousy, indignation, fretted the
other ladies. They would not have 



peter with me had they known I was such
a star. It was like acting with a " professional."


I laughed. Their little spiteful daggers
glanced off the coating of mail I had
buckled on, and left me unharmed. I
would gratify my ambition this night, I
who had had such a niggard measure of
the world's goods all my life ; I would
conquer this time, if never again.

My success did not excite me, for with
it I had pain. I had taken upon myself
the character of Dora Hope, and personating
her, I forgot my own identity.

In the last act I had drawn tears from
the ladies by my heartrending grief for
the loss of my husband, the news of his
death having been gently broken to me
by Lady Haigh, who did her part faultlessly.
In this scene I must appear as

i

I

his widow, calmer for the twelve months
of widowhood.

When dressed I looked at myself in the
glass. My part had so worked upon my
feelings that it had wrought a change in
my appearance. I was white, cold, the
picture of stony anguish.

Major Norton seemed afraid of me. I
chuckled inwardly. Had they known my
mother they would not have been astonished
at my aptness for the stage.

'' Why, her heart must have been tough.
How did it end ?"

My turn came to go on. No nervousness
disturbed me; I swept on, trailing my
heavy robes behind me, my hands hanging
listlessly amongst the folds. My eyes,
large and expressive, told well. Lifting
them, I advanced ; my habitual easy, firm
carriage proved an excellent stage-walk.
No matter how many looked at me, I only
saw one, only acted to one — the man
standing by the statue of " Truth," and

whose massive brow was as white as the
marble.

I was powerless to control myself. The
wail of my heart, once broken loose, found
relief in authorised grief, and I mourned
for the love that stood aloof more passionately
than any widow ever grieved for her
husband. I watched his eye kindle, his
lips tremble ; the people whispered behind
their fans, and the unhappy man who had
proposed to me actually shivered in his
shoes.

I refused him scornfully ; nothing would
induce me to marry a second time. My
love for my dead husband was so deep, so
true, that conscience pricked many of the
fair dames sitting there, and put them to
the blush. In a tempest of indignation I
judged the offer no honour, but an insult ;
it was but a base woman who could so

soon forget the man she had sworn to love
all her life, and in sorrow I uttered the
words that seemed re-pointed by my
tongue, and turning saw my husband, who
had been an eye and ear witness of the
scene. Straightway my sorrow turned to
gladness, the tears were dashed aside : I
was no widow, but a happy wife, loved
and loving with the love that lasts '* For
Ever."

The curtain dropped amid rounds of
applause. Congratulations poured in upon
us. I say us, for Mr. Bancroft had sustained
the part of the devoted husband
perfectly.

We ought not to have shared alike, for
our motives were different. He had simply
let his feelings master him, and followed
them. Every kiss, every clasp, was the
genuine lover's. Mine was only acting;

and what is more, acting gone through
under a sense of insult and injustice.

Hot and vexed,, I disengaged myself
from his arms, and without flinching dealt
him, in the eyesight and earshot of others,
a crueUbut deserved rebuke.

'' My thanks are due to you, Mr. Bancroft,
for your generous support, which has
enabled me to act in a manner pleasing to
the assembly ; but the play is now played
out, and there can be no repetition."

With a cold bow I passed out.

He understood. What a coward, to
take advantage of the piece to inflict
caresses and attentions upon me which he
knew, as well as I did, circumstances alone
prevented me rejecting.

I avoided those I saw, and hastened to
my room. I was free, free to let the
blinding tears fall.

Stay — I had reckoned too early. A
sudden clap of a door behind me, and
Mr. Lovering was at my side.

'^ So you would hurry off and leave us —
leave us after turning all the men's heads,
and the women's hearts to gall. A good
many of the men envied Bancroft when
your arms were round his neck ; very
likely he does not cavil with his lot. You
are vexed, Miss Sharland ? I have solved
your pretty, innocent riddle too readily.
Too vexed to speak, even V

I lifted my face and essayed to speak.
Could I burst my fetters, or must they
kill me ? Had he no mercy ? Who forbid
a woman to declare her love ? why must
the avowal wait the man's pleasure, and
thus offer him opportunity to shake the
faith and courage of the noblest woman ?

He looked at me. Even the misery in

my face was not equal to quenching his
anger and sarcasm at once. I could not
speak ; I tried — no words came. I wanted
to be alone, to get away.

I have been a brute," he muttered,
intercepting my progress ; ^'I did not know
anything had gone wrong. Tell me ; perhaps
I could put it right'

"No; let me go."

"You are ill, ready to cry your heart
out. Grace — Grace !"

Let me pass, sir !"

That you may weep in secret ; you will
not so much as let me see you cry '?"

No, sir. What warranty have I that
you will not scoff at me ?'

Your heart. Just answer me this
question, and then off with you. Have
those d d women been plaguing you V

'^ No matter. I am not inclined to

make confession, so you may as well return
to your guests."

I begin to see I am wasting my time ;
you have steeled your heart. Though, as
I watched you, Grace, I thought it yearned
for sympathy."

I groaned inwardly. This tenderness
was mastering me. God help me, I could
not act to this man !

'^ Promise you will come back ? You
are not going to shut yourself up in your
room. Only come that I may see you.
I ask no more now ; the next time it will
be different !"

A face passion-lit, trembling with suppressed
emotion, was bowed to mine ; his
hands were clasped behind him, else he
might have caught me up as I stood there.

A step sounded. Instantly he became
cold, guarded.

Do you want me, Pat 1"

'' Yes, sir."

He went without as much as a backward
glance to betray him to Pat.

I had my order ; I must obey. And I
loved sufficiently to make any act of obedience
sweet.

The company were feasting and chattering,
but most greeted me with a pleased
interest new to me. You see I had
amused them, catered for their appetite
for excitement satisfactorily, and I had
done something they could not do. I had
filled eyes with tears that had been dry
many a day.

I was not inclined for conversation, and
looked about for a portion of the - room
where only strangers were. An intolerable
thirst was upon me, and I asked the
old butler to give me a glass of iced water.

Major Norton hurried up.

'^ I have been looking everywhere for
you. Miss Sharland. Lord Outside
wishes to be presented to you."

I pictured a talkative, conceited young
man, with the delectable pronoun ^^ I " forever
on his lips.

Oh, well, never mind him just now."

The major's eyebrows rise.

I said Lord Montside, Miss Sharland."

I am aware that you did, Major
Norton; and my reply would have been
precisely the same had you said the Prince
of Wales."

^' What is your objection to being introduced
T

I have none. I simply prefer to be
left here quietly."

I wish you would consent to oblige
me, Miss Sharland. I feel so proud of

J

you, and his lordship admires you excessively
; and I wanted, if possible, to help
him out of a difficulty."

'^ Indeed ! and pray what use did you
intend making of me T

"Why, you see they are getting up
theatricals at Waterpark, and they are ina
terrible mess for a good leading lady.
Now you know you are a dab hand at it,
and he wants to ask you to take the principal
part."

If that is all, you may carry my reply
to his lordship, and spare him the exertion
of coming to me. I decline."

Why T

My eyes flashed.

Because it is my pleasure — that is
your answer."

The discomfited major wheeled round,
and I sought another resting-place.

'' I heard you ask for a glass of iced-water.
Here it is."

Thank you. I am going."

'' Where to ?"

"Where there are fewer people, Mr.
Lovering."

Then it must be into my office. Every
other room is full. I know all ; I don't
wish you to go to Waterpark."

'^ Supposing Major Norton brings Lord
Montside, it will oblige me to refuse him
to his face."

Then do it. I am glad you declined.
I won't let you act again, Grace — you
understand '?"

-Yes."

And I sat down comforted. He stayed
a little and talked ; and when he left me,
laughter danced in my eyes, smiles on my
lips. My heart was Hight ; I was happy.



I talked and joked merrily, and soon
had a tolerable audience round me.

At the edge of the ring I noticed Frank
Bancroft, pale and sullen. This man
annoyed me. I was reminded of little

H J who was then travelling in the

East.

VOL. II. 27

Gossip, you know little of these times."

Carriage after carriage rolled away through
the starlight night, and soon the company-dwindled
down to those staying the night
at the Manor.

I was of that number, and just as I
hoped to get off to my room, plump Mrs.
Norton dropped into a seat at my side.
This dame was mightily pleased. She had
eaten a heavy supper, and offered to escort
me tp obtain some refreshment when she
heard I had had none.



"Do you always go supperless to bed,
like a naughty child, Miss Sharland '? I
should never sleep a wink if I did, and
keep awake all night. I say, I hope, my
dear, you may have softer pillows upon
your bed than we have upon ours. You
poor thing, all alone ; you will have a
wretched time of it, else ! What I should
do without Ned I don't know. I make
him my pillow. That is the good of a
husband, my dear."

I could think of no suitable reply, so
held my tongue. She continued :

^' I think it is such a pity there is no
young branch to this family. A wife
would have a good position as Mrs. Lovering,
and perhaps she could get accustomed
to that queer man."

^* Queer, Mrs. Norton?"

"Yes; and put 'very' before it if you

27—2

like. Why, no one knows what to make
of Mr. Lovering ; he is never in the same
mind two days running. If you can understand
him, you are clever. He is positively
rude at times, and his sisters are
silly old frights. But then it is a nice
house to come to, for they know so many
good people, and I hate staying at
home. It makes one so stupid. In the
long run I should not wonder if he did
marry."

I stood the blow.

'what makes you suppose so, Mrs.
Norton ?"

'' His attentions to her''

Her I Who ?"

"My dear Miss Sharland, I shall be
driven to take up other people's notions of
you, that you are fearfully indifferent and
proud. You certainly take no notice of

what goes on round you. Have you
not remarked his devotion to Mrs. Fantail

r

^^No."

Had she not been so engrossed with her
subject, the tone of my voice must have
startled her. I felt cold, so cold !

'' Ah, then, you are blinder than other
people, that is all. He is pretty free when
the mood is on him, and rather taking
with ladies ; but she is sharp enough, and
unless there was something in it she would
not waste her time with him when the
preserves are so full of game. Nothing
like country houses for making matches.
I detest that woman; she is too tricky.
If he does not take care she will have him
as fast as a fly in a spider's web. They
were to have been married in their young
days, but they had a little tiff, and during

it Mr. Fantail came upon the scene and
carried off the sorrowing lady."

I was voiceless. Something beat in my
throat, fluttered in my breast.

^^ I fancy I could eat another puff," remarked
Mrs. Norton, shrugging her fair
fat shoulders nearly out of her dress.
'' Come, Miss Sharland !"

** No, pray excuse me ; but do you go."

I hope I shall find you here when I
return. I like you better than anyone
here."

Would to God she had hated me, and so
kept silent ! I could stand no more : this
woman had cut me to the heart. I dared
not risk any further operation for the
present. My resolve was no sooner taken
than acted upon.

I hastened to my room and bolted myself
in, determined to wrestle with the

horrible suspense alone. If he was playing
me false, I certainly should lose
heavily — I should lose all trust inhumanity
for ever and ever. And then
what of my life ?

I sat down, and contrasted our respective
positions and charms, hers and mine.
At the end of ten minutes truth obliged
me to own that she carried off the palm.
They were equals in age, birth, and position,
of the same grade in society, had been
friends for many years. Mrs. Fantail was
liked and sought after by the Misses
Lovering. Grace Sharland was pitied, and
noticed by them probably out of kindness.

Was it likely that a man at his time of
life would sacrifice the associations of years
to marry a girl, poor, friendless, little
known and less liked ? No ; it was not.
In the bitterness of my conviction I reproached

myself for being silly enough to
come to the Manor, to allow myself even
the pleasure of such an intimacy.

To soothe the smart of such wholesome
chastisement came the recollection of indisputable
facts, actions, words, which
were sufficient to split his soul on the rock
of damnation, or transport mine into
elysium.

My landlord loved me as well as ever
man loved woman, or else he was the
devil, minus hoofs and horns. Mrs. Fantail
might prance, and display her bosom
and teeth for his contemplation : she could
neither soften his eye nor influx into his
voice one single hum of the soul's music.
Ah, the world, cruel, wise, remorseless,
might stand between us, and fate might
separate our bodies, but neither hand nor
time could erase what was written on our

hearts. More writing might be added as
years fled by, and eyes and ears got either
partially closed or too well accustomed to
declarations which brought gratification as
brief as false ; but the Jlrst strange message
from heart to heart is never rubbed out.

Possessing excellent health and considerable
resolution, I slept, which fact
may bewilder my young lady readers,
should I be fortunate enough to secure
any.

The morning broke frosty cold, and the
company dribbled down to breakfast disconsolate
and peevish. The good cheer
provided, presided over by Miss Miriam
and Naomi in turbans, brought solace to
the vapid creatures, and something like
warmth curled round their shrivelled hearts.

By twelve o'clock the stage had disappeared,
and music succeeded hammering.

Mr. Levering was invisible. I wished to go
home, but Miss Naomi and her sister made
such objections, and begged me so earnestly
to remain to dinner, that I consented,
rather than prolong an argument which
I was unable to sustain against such foes.
They did not wish me to think I had been
made a convenience of, and that, the acting
ended, I was of no further interest sto them.

They were delicate in their attentions
good old ladies, they strove to keep alight
the flame I had kindled the previous
evening, and they succeeded.

Major Norton sought me in the afternoon,
and apologised for so hastily naming
Lord Montside's request.

'^ I see my error now, Miss Sharland,
and your refusal was just. You are not a
professional, and probably regret such a
career. But I am enthusiastic in the

cause of the drama, and I never saw such
a display of talent; and I have dabbled
in theatricals for many years. You are a
born actress, and could make a fortune
easily, and an undying reputation. Some
practice is necessary, and private theatricals
afford the pleasantness means of it. Do I
offend you. Miss Sharland ?"

'' No. You are recommending to mea
quicker and more lucrative mode of
gaining a living, and I should be excessively
stupid to take offence with you for doing
so. Your tone tells me you are aware
of my circumstances, and I will not deny
that my life is a hard one. Still, it affords

kme one advantage, a quiet peaceful home.
A certain amount of solitude is necessary
for the health of some people, science and
nature are of one mind upon that subject,

I and I believe I am one of those people,

Major Norton. A little excitement I can
stand, but a strong and persistent hankering
after my own fireside to-day warns me
that I am deficient in what is termed
animal spirits."

Then you do not repudiate my suggestion
on the score of pride and impropriety
?"

*not in the least. Impropriety could
only be the result of conduct, and what
one sows one may expect to reap ; but
that is no proof of the ground being bad.
As for pride, I do not understand it in
your sense. I have learnt by experience
that if I don't provide for myself no one
else will."

Your relations, you have some V

Plenty, and they rank high ; but they
will never provide for me, because they will
never be asked. I should be ashamed to

go while I possess head and hands intact,
and solicit alms. My pride will not
permit me to turn pauper ; but it counsels
me to respect every upright means of
gaining my living."

"Will you take the matter into consideration,
Miss Sharland V

'eyes, I may promise that much; and
I think I ought to thank you for the
interest you appear to take in my affairs V

Never mind that ; my wife is quite of
my opinion respecting your talent. To tell
the truth, you took everyone by storm last
night, only one half would not like to
confess it, and the other half keep silent
from jealousy."

Come, come, I don't sanction traitors.
Don't create a rebellion in the house,
Norton."

Mr. Lovering had just returned.

^' If you have heard what I said, you
cannot deny it, Lovering."

I have no desire to try ; but being
better acquainted with Miss Sharland than
you are, I may tell you she is in no danger
of becoming an actress, in spite of your
pictured victories, and everlasting glory."

Ah ! well, fate sometimes plays the
most cautious of us queer tricks, and the
fixed intentions of to-day may become the
horror of tomorrow. It is never amiss to
have a reserve of ammunition when one
fights fortune. May yours come speedily,
and prove lasting and pleasant. Miss
Sharland."

It was a kind wish, bub expressed oddly
to my mind.

When I glanced into Mr. Lovering's
face it was white.

The major left us.

Ah, 'twas too miicli to be borne ; and he fretted
and chafed in his armour."

Have you been far, sir ?"

Twelve miles or so. Your house is
safe ; I saw the firelight on the window.
Now, don't get restless. Can you not
abide with us a little longer, or has Norton
inflamed that imagination of yours T

I don't need to draw upon my creative
faculties just now — the reality is too good."

'^ You are glad to see me V

'* Yes, gladder than glad."

*' Quite right. It makes me better to

bring joy to some one. I am not such a
bad man as they paint me ; and I was
intended for a better, but that merciless
hag Fate has been at enmity with me from
the hour I came into the world. Curse
her !"

Hush, hush I" I whispered, horrified.

'they ha^-e not heard, and if they did
they would not care ; rather revel in
another proof of my hardened villainy. If
a great trouble came to me, they would
only jeer. And you, Grace, what would
you do V

Help you all I could, sir."

'' Brave heart, I know it."

Others engrossed his attention, and my
place was at the other end of the table,
But the ringing voice reached me, and
I knew I was not forgotten.

The excitement of the previous evening

I

had served to stir up the love of it in
many breasts, and then came the query,
'' What shall we do to-night V

Tell ghost stories."

Ghost stories on Christmas Eve, Mr.
Bancroft !" cried High Church Miss Mus-pratt
; '' more likely go to church."

Would you like to go down to the
church and hear the bells ?"

Duckworch won't be there — we have no
service ; but perhaps Miss Muspratt would
not object to gracing the pulpit for once,
and pointing out our delinquencies."

To my amazement the suggestion was
greedily accepted.

Mr. Lovering sarcastically offered to
have the carriages out ; this Mrs. Fantail,
who generally acted spokeswoman, declined.
It was a clear frosty night — they
would walk.

VOL. II. 28

How I regretted staying !

We were ready, and the order given to
march. Unluckily I had got into the
centre of the band. Some before, some
behind, but I was hemmed in in the
middle. Stout Mrs. Norton leant very
heavily upon one of my arms, and Frank
Bancroft commanded the other side.
Poor fellow I he was nervous and unhappy,
like every young man when in love ; and
instinct warned me to avoid being alone
with him unless I wished for a proposal.

It was nine o'clock when we reached
the village. The ringers were turning
out ; and the old sexton, lantern in hand,
was unlocking the belfry door. I went upto
him and grasped his hand, the hand
that had dug the grave for both my
parents.

Poor old man, the tears had run down

his face at sight of me, white and tearless,
standing by my father's coffin.

Have you forgotten me, Andrew '?"

No, missis, I have not ; and my old
woman was a-asking after you only last
night. You're quite a woman now, and it
seems but yesterday you was a toddling
lassie, holding on by your nurse's gown."

'^ Have you been very well ?"

Barring the rheumatism. Miss Grace,
it plagues me sore. But I am wonderful,
considering as how I have stood about in
this damp ground, and dug every grave
for nearly sixty year. My grandson,
Sammy — you mind him, missis ? — is a fine
young man, and ready to step into my
shoes. It makes me think a bit when I
look round and know that where I have
laid so many I shall soon be laid myself
Please God, I am ready."

28—2

*' Tell your wife I will come and see
her before this year is out. I intended
calling many a time, but very likely you
know, Andrew, that my time is not my
own now."

'^ I do, missis ; to speak truth, I never
recollect when it was. You were always
busy, from the day you could walk. You'll
be glad to know that the vine you helped
me to train bore bravely this year, and
we made a good bit out of our grapes."

'^ Indeed, I am pleased to hear it."

By this time the others had come up.
The ringers were ready, and a joyous peal
rang on the still frosty air. The bells
ceased, and then someone proposed the
organ should be tried.

'' Who can play ?"

Miss Sharland."

I was sought and found, seated in a pew

with Mrs. Norton — she talking, I dreaming.
I liked this woman's society, because
she relied entirely on her own powers of
conversation.

Again they were too many for me, and
I was obliged to comply with their request.
Music never came amiss to me ;
I lost my own individuality in the sounds,
and for a time forgot my sorrows.

The organ loft was by no means a strange
place to me, and the organ (old mangle),
was amenable to my fingers. I knew how
to humour it, how to coax oat of its rusty
worm-eaten inside some melody instead of
gasps and squeals. Many an hour had I
spent up there with my father, while his
delicate fingers lingered on the yellow
keys, and the old church vibrated with
soul-stirring sounds. I knew where the
music was kept, and how to screw

up the rickety stool. There was only
one candle, but that signified little, as
memory helped me liberally. I played ;
they, these creatures of gigantic importance
and stunted understandings, listened
longer than could have been expected,
then they fidgeted and dwindled off.

Though I had done a good deal, it was
not enough. Trust a woman for always
having an ungratified desire, a request at
the end of her tongue.

Miss Clem glided to my side.

'' Can you play the ^ Wedding March,'
Miss Sharland '?"

eyes."

*' Oh, then, please do ; and we will go
downstairs to listen."

I agreed, and setting the candle on the
floor while I searched the music, paid no
attention to the fact that they all went

and I was left alone. I found the copy
tattered and torn. It had never been
used since Alice Webb married some
young man from London. That was
many years since, and about the only
grand wedding at Holland within my recollection.


As the well-remembered tune pealed
from the organ, my memory reproduced
the scene. I saw it all again from
my place of observation, the window in
the Manor pew ; I had no business there —
I was an uninvited guest.

I had been enticed by the gay procession
which had caught my eye from the parlour
window, and without asking permission, I
had run across to the church, through the
summer rain, with my dolly clasped to my
bosom.

When I arrived there the door was

shut. Nothing daunted, I ran round, and
grasping the ivy, whose thick fibres hugged
the stones lovingly, I clambered up, and
thrusting my body through the open casement,
viewed the whole ceremony triumphantly.
So absorbed were the company
in themselves and each other, that I should
have escaped observation, but for an
unlucky accident.

Entranced by the music and fine apparel,
I relaxed my grasp of Mary Jane, who,
being but a thing of brown calico and
bran, tumbled headlong, with a loud noise,
into the Manor pew. Had a cannon
exploded beneath their feet, little less
terror could have been evinced.

The bridegroom dropped the ring ; the
bridesmaids sought with alacrity the protection
of their specified groomsmen. The
women abandoned themselves to fear with

the utter restlessness that characterises
the sex. They were ready to fly without
waiting to ascertain if there was anything
behind them.

Now neither nervousness nor bashfulness
had been transmitted to me by my good
mother, but a keen sense of the ridiculous
had, and I burst out laughing, a process
that set my eyes dancing and displayed
all my even white teeth. Indignation now
took the place of fear, and the women,
weak spiteful things, launched epithets
volubly.

'abominable child!" — "Justlikeanimp!"

My friend Andrew now approached and
handed me up Mary Jane, and admonished
me to go.

I shook my head, took a turn on the
window-sill, and remained. I watched
the ceremony concluded, and the exit

into the vestry. Then I jumped down,
and asking Mary Jane how she would like
to be married, ran home. I had not been
even missed.

One string, my friend, is dumb beneath your hand :
Strike, and it throbs and vibrates at your will,
Falters upon the verge of sound, and still

Falls back as sea waves shattered on the strand."

The tune ended with my reflections, and
the rumble of the organ as the wind died
out of it formed a suitable accompaniment
to my thoughts, which had faithfully
adhered to facts, and proceeded with my
uneventful life. Perhaps I should have
gone on through the past till the present
had confronted me, had not I become
aware that either I, or someone else, had so

disarranged the music that there was no
shutting the hd down.

Sipping off the stool, I set to work.
The curtain was drawn ; the solitary candle
was on the floor by me. Suddenly my
heart leaped, the blood tingled to my
finger ends. I heard a heavy quick step
on the stones.

'' Thought you must all be gone, the
place is so silent and dark."

So we have, neatly," answered Mrs.
Fan tail ; " the young people have paired
off. I remained, and let my imagination
picture what might have been."

Her voice was tender, slightly trembling.
I rose and peeped through the curtain.
They stood in the light of the lamp at the
bottom of the belfry stairs. Mr. Lovering
was looking straight before him with
compressed lips.

Mrs. Fantail continued :

'rit seems quite a case with Miss Shetland
and Frank Bancroft. And she may
count herself fortunate. They strolled
away together fully five minutes since."

'* Indeed."

No other remark, but that one word
spoke to my instructed ear volumes.
The hypocrite was determined upon
making the most of her opportunity. Who
could tell what buried recollection she might
not revive, and trick him into betraying
weakness. Men are impulsive, feeble ; a
'cute woman may cheat them into denying
their own conscience. Perhaps she thought
the silence and fixed expression of countenance
a sign of inward emotion.

Now she could not read that face. It
was only to her a strong harsh countenance,
often, by the passion that worked within,

made ugly. The big nose, hard mouth,
and keen eyes never softened and became
beautiful when looking at her. How should
she, a creature of cunning thoughts and
many schemes, with shallow heart and
brain, understand my master ? — who, with
the reserve of a fine nature, kept his heart,
his ideas, turned from the gaze of prying
vulgar eyes.

Mrs. Fantail talked on.

'' It is to be hoped she will recognise her
good fortune andbelmve accordingly. She
is to be envied — very few marry their first
and true love."

He laughed that jarring devilish laugh
that seemedlike hoarse scream of strangled
rage.

''Be damned to love ! — there is no such
thing. Every woman is born a flirt, and
the more hearts she can wring the happier

she is. As for marrying their love ! Ah !
ah ! it is not easy to tell who they do love.
You did not marry yours, I suppose ?"

Ah ! William, you know "

Either Mrs. Fantail's emotion stifled
her voice, or mine my hearing, for the
remainder of her reply was lost to me.

A sharp heavy sound recalled me, the
banging of the door. In my fright I
forgot the candle on the floor, my thick
dress caught it, swept it from its socket,
and put it out. I was alone in the church,
and in darkness.

Indignation at first routed both fear and
cold. Presently, however, I began to feel
cramped and chilly, and somewhat anxious
as to various sounds. I found my cloak,
and put it on. I parted the curtains and
looked down into the church.

It was all dark, save where the moonlight

slanted through a window, and casta
ghastly tint on the effigies of some departed
saint or sinner. I could see the rats
frisky lean, green-eyed — running over
the stones that gaped above the vaults.

The dead lay all under the church, and
time had so eaten into many of the letters
that you had to kneel to read the inscriptions.
I thought, were they, coffined
under those worn flags, lonelier than I ?

The squeals of the rats startled me, and
a rattling by the organ froze the blood in
my veins.

The moon had drawn back under some
cloud, and my eyes seemed lighted from
below, where the dead rested. Strange
ideas swept like phantoms through my
brain ; skeleton fingers grasped mine in
good fellowship, as if glad to greet a companion.


I tried to cry out and could not : a dull
pain seized my heart, a numbness my
limbs, and I slipped down, down.

When I recovered from my faint, the
moon was shining brightly upon me, and,
secure in her pure light, I staggered up,
and blessed God for the lamp He had
lighted.

The army of rats were holding an orgie
below, but I ventured to look no more.

I groped my way out on to the staircase,
and took my stand at the window
where I could see my mother's and father's
grave. I prayed that the light might not
leave that window, that the moon might
not be hidden again that night. Surely if
nature did not help her child, nought
would. I prayed against the sins of the
world, the temptations of youth, the danger
of setting up idols, and for the man I

VOL. n. 29

loved. My shoulder ached and smarted —
I had hit it when I fell in the organ-loft.

I seemed to have stood there a long-long
time, my parents' grave and the
moonlight bearing me company. I must
have dozed, my forehead pillowed on the
window-ledge, my body on the stairs.

A cry awoke me, I started up.

It was my own name, uttered in such an
accent of fear that my heart was wrung.

Mr. Lovering stood below.

^^ Grace, my darling, I am here ; try and
open the window."

I did try, as well as my frozen trembling
fingers would let me, but it was useless.
The spiders had had their kingdom there
undisputed for many a long year, and
made ladders from the bells to the window
again and again. The entire frame was
coated with rust.

I tried to speak, but my voice was weak,
and I knew he could not hear me. Plainly
enough I heard him anathematising, and
presently a crashing crackling sound.

He was climbing up by the ivy that
twined round the belfry, and some said
prevented its falling.

A final swine* and he was at the window,
only the glass between us.

My joy mastered my reserve, and I
stretched out my hands.

Even then I saw the wave of gladness
that illuminated his face. To bring that
light just once into a man's face ought to
make any woman content.

'^ Go away, Grace! stand off!"

I obeyed. He lifted the stone in his hand
and burst open the casement. The rusty iron
fastening flew against the opposite wall and
dislodged a large piece of plaster.

29—2

Ill another second he was inside, and
held me in his arms.

I nestled to him, forgetting all, only
recollecting that I loved him.

He chafed my cold hands, smoothed my
tangled hair, comforted me by a thousand
little actions that a man never dreams of,
but to the woman he wants for his wife.

I looked up at him, all tears gone. I
was warm and safe enough.

^' Is my wife very tired ?"

'' Not now."

^' Nor cold r

"No."

'' Nor afraid ?"

No."

'* Then what is she ?"

- Happy."

He squeezed me to him, and laughed.'

** Happy buttoned into my coat here,

lying against my heart. Kiss me,
Grace !"

I kissed him willingly, loving him with
my whole heart. All the ghouls and rats
had decamped, and I laughed as I related
my past terror and agony. He had found
my cloak and wrapped me up in it.

'rit is fortunate you had this warm thing
on, or you would have been perished.
Had I come to find you stiff and stark, I
should have wrung Mother Fantail's
enamelled neck. Why did you not speak
when you heard her utter that lie about
you going off with Bancroft ?"

I was so surprised and vexed, and
then your manner and speech — I thought
perhaps " ""

He laughed.

Exactly. Like the rest of your sex,
you like torturing yourself with jealousy.

What a happy man I should be tied to
that elderly bird ! — how devoted I should
be ! I can picture it all."

The vision must have been pleasing, for
he laughed again.

'' Perhaps she thought I should be overcome,
and in a moment of weakness utter
sentiment, or make a promise 1 could not
fulfil. An addition to her income would
not be objectionable to Mrs. Fantail, even
though it came through the medium of
the Divorce Court. Are you in a hurry
to go, Grace ?"

^^No."

That is well for unless you are agreeable
to jump with me out of the window,
there is at present no other means of
egress available to us. Presently Bancroft
will have awakened that slumbering
sexton, and got the key. / could dispense

with his arrival. Could you,
Grace ?"

'' Yes ; for longer — I am content. But
people would talk."

• " They will prate as it is. You should
have seen Bancroft's face when I inquired
after you. I left Mrs. Fantail to console
him, and he evidently devoted scanty time
to that most pleasant and easy task, for
he was after me in three minutes, and
volunteered to get the key."

I am afraid I have given you a deal
of trouble, sir 1"

*' Verily you have, and some day I
intend to remind you of it. Grace !
promise, swear ^ that when I come and
claim you for my wife you will be mine T

His earnestness startled me, and I did
not immediately reply.

Swear!" he entreated savagely; " here.

where, if there are any angels or devils
above ground, they can bear witness
against you at the Day of Judgment
should you break your oath."

A keen icy wind came in through the
broken window : it seemed like a sigh, a
chill breath, and the cold penetrated me
through. Some icy power held me — something
that had neither name nor substance
stood between us, and I shivered. Was
it death ? — a forecast of trouble ?

You hesitate, you doubt — quick,
speak !"

He touched me, and the cold presence
vanished.

No, you mistake ; I swear I will marry
you," I answered.

He drew a gasping sigh of relief.

Thank God ! You have made a noble
promise, Grace ; you are brave, my darling.

the world would say very brave, to marry
wild Will Lovering. Trust me, while I
live you shall be safe — with my life I will
shield you."

I smiled ; I loved too much to fear
anything.

Voices and hammering at the door
announced the arrival of the key, and we
betook ourselves downstairs.

Tt was Mr. Bancroft.

He had not waited for the old man, but
persuaded him to throw the key through
the window, and hurried off with it. In
the lane he had encountered some servants
from the Manor, with a carriage despatched
by Miss Naomi.

Heaven be praised, you are alive !"
ejaculated the Master of the Hounds,
fervently, at sight of me. " What a fearful
time you must have spent shut up here V

I believe you," replied Mr. Lovering.
'' When I got through the window she was
cold and still, almost voiceless. If it had
been either of us, Bancroft, I question
whether wee should have passed through the
trial as well as Miss Sharland. Our sins
would have recurred to our minds uncomfortably,
and chilled us more than the
dampness of the church."

He placed his hand upon my shoulder,
and I wondered whether Mr. Bancroft
noticed the tenderness in his voice, as I did.

The drive to the Manor was soon
accomplished, and I noticed lights in the
village as we dashed through.

Mr. Bancroft's knocks at old Andrew's
door had not been of a gentle type, and
the thrilling account of a lady being locked
up in the church had served to lift many a
sleepy head off the pillow.

Mr. Levering laughed, and squeezed my
arm, under pretence of wrapping an extra
cape round me.

You will be obliged to drive slowly
through Holland tomorrow, Miss Sharland,
and show yourself as royalty does. Or
shall I issue bulletins specifying your
recovery ?"

I think if you would tell your man to
drive me to my own home, instead of to
yours, it would in any case be better."

And I think not. You are on the
point of breaking down now, and to mure
yourself up there, to brood over the horrors
of being locked up in that church, would
be enough to make you ill."

*' I may in any case be ill."

'' Then it shall be in my house, where I
can see you if I choose. Our carelessness
brought this about."

When I wanted to get out I was sick
and giddy ; the lights confused me.

The lateness of the hour had scared
nearly all the visitors to their rooms.

Mrs. Fantail, however, had not fled the
field. She advanced, the dabs of rouge
being the only colour anxiety, on some
account or other, had left in her bold face.

Miss Sharland, allow me to express
my deep regret for my error "

The arm that had supported me from
the carriage tightened.

*' Pooh, my good lady ; if your regret is
no more truthful than your statement, which
placed this lady in such an unpleasant
position, you need not trouble yourself to
express it. Miss Sharland fully understands
the matter, Mrs. Fantail, and your
share in it."

Without giving her any chance of replying,

he swept me into a room, and placing
me in a big chair, busied himself in divesting
me of my wraps.

He forced me to eat and drink, his
sisters standing by — then in his own arms
he carried me upstairs. I remembered
his kisses as we mounted the dark stairs ;
he had forbidden anyone to precede with a
light, saying he could see ; and then no
more, until I found myself in bed with an
old woman sitting by me.

*' 'Tis spring that leads tli^m to their goal ;
Thou art the spring-tide of my soul,
My loved Yvonne, my own Yvonne !
No truth on earth save love is found,
All else is but an empty sound."

Miss Sharland, you must keep quiet ;
you fainted on your way upstairs. I am
the housekeeper, Mrs. Quail. I hope you
find yourself tolerably well now, miss ?"

Yes, thank you ; and if you will give
me a drink you might go to bed, Mrs.
Quail."

Mv orders were to remain, Miss Shetland,

and when the master orders no one
disobeys here."

I lay quiet after this, and the old woman
settled herself comfortably in her chair.

Presently the volume of " Blair's Sermons
" began to jog in her hand, and
drop lower ; finally it slipped out of her
fingers altogether, and on to the rug.

The next sound was Mrs. Quail snoring
placidly, displaying the joints of her false
teeth.

A piece of very gassy coal was at the
front of the grate, spurting out hissing jets
of flame, and illuminating for half a second
the large room with its heavy hangings,
and revealing gigantic and goblin-shaped
fissures in the corner. I had no weird
fancies in my mind — I was amused, not
terrified, by the mystic forms.

It was wonderfully pleasant, resting on

that bed of down, warm and safe, after
being shut up in the dreary cold church.
My thoughts were devoted to my master.
I was privileged to think now, and to
allow my love to run on unchecked.

I was happy, at peace with all the
world. Had I possessed an enemy, I
could have forgiven her freely. Who
knows the power, the influence for good of
a love boundless and strong ?

I could not sleep, my joy was too great
to subside into slumber. When I looked
up, I saw him standing behind Mrs.
Quail, his face full of love and anxiety.

I impulsively stretched out my arms to
him, and then regretted it. What if the
woman awoke 1 She and others, not understanding
the great love that sanctions auctions
would judge in the general way,
and condemn.

*^ Grace, you are excited."

'* No," I reply ; '' I am not. I was
quiet until I saw you. You should not
be here."

'• No ; I suppose not. I should be
enduring untold miseries in my own
chamber or outside yours, and you awake,
looking into the fire, with a face far too
earnest to denote a quiet brain."

** But you have no right here."

'' I have, and I dare anyone to make it
wrong. Oh, Grace, Grace, my darling !"

It seemed half a dream that I should lie
with my arms twined round that proud-neck,
and he, the harsh, rough man, as
tender to me as if I were a baby.

I remembered how often I had watched
him driving over the farm, and, meeting
him, received a curt reply.

His manner had frequently tinctured

VOL. IL 30

mine with acrimony, and we had been
mutually disagreeable.

What a couple of hypocrites we were !

The housekeeper turned in her sleep.

'' Go, Mr. Lovering — go 1"

He smiled provokingly.

Say, ^ William, I love you 1' and then
perhaps I may."

I said it, and got laughed at and kissed
for my pains.

Then he went, and I fell asleep and
dreamed of him, as was to be expected.


I was in bed all Christmas - day, for,
notwithstanding my protestations that I
was perfectly well, I turned out to be a
little ill.

In the evening I sat up, and Miss
Naomi and Mr. Lovering came to see me.
The good ladies had worried me more or

less with running in all day. Poor things I
they had no idea of sickness. Heaven
protect anyone really ill and left to their
guidance !

They chattered and disagreed over me,
until, had it not been for Mrs. Quail, I
should have got nothing. They had not a
quarter finished their discussion respecting
the goods and evils attendant upon eating
shop or chicken, when I had digested my
turkey.

Prim Miss Naomi fairly blushed when
she ushered her brother into the room, and
invited him to a chair in the furthest,
darkest corner.

She had packed me up until not the tips
of my slippers could be seen, and I had a
stout fight for liberty for my hands.

That chair, Naomi ? why particularly
that chair ?"

30—2

** You would be able to converse with
Miss Sharland there, brother."

'assuredly. I should be able to converse
with anyone under the fountain by
openings the window and shouting. But I
want to see as well as talk. Have you any
objection to look at me, Miss Shetland
T

None whatever. I should like it."

** There, Naomi 1 you see, you need not
have taken the trouble to plan for us. We
know our own likes and dislikes."

He drew his chair closer, and, taking my
hand, kept it, fondling it and inquiring how
I felt.

I fancied Miss Naomi looked frightened ;.
her face wore the same expression as on the
night we were in the fernery.

*' I feel quite well, and should like to go
home. I must be a trouble to you."

He fumed and fidgeted.

Nothing of the kind. You are a
pleasure — a constant source of interest and
dehojht."

He was excited, his eyes glittered, and
the head was thrown back defiantly.

He might have said more, and betrayed
himself or me. Would God that he had,
for then the old, shrivelled woman sitting
there had proved an angel unawares. Her
cracked voice now interposed.

'* Brother, you express yourself strangely,
but I hope Miss Sharlandwill understand.
Mr. Lovering wishes to convey to you, my
dear, the impression that you are no trouble
to us, and in that statement my sister and
I concur'*

I bowed.

Mr. Lovering exclaimed :

*' Naomi, why don't you write for the

Echo of Fashion ' ? Your phraseology
is truly exquisite. But if you don't express
other people's sentiments any more
truthfully than you have just done mine,,
I fear you will not prove a favourite contributor.
Miss Sharland perfectly understands
what I meant ; she is wonderfully
apt at understanding me. I think I hear
music below. I am sure they will not be
able to arrange the dances without you,
Naomi. Go. Those red-heeled shoes of
yours, and orange-clocked stockings, w41l
look to perfection on the floor."

The lady made no sign of moving, and
again the startled expression rose to her
countenance.

I bethought myself of an expedient forgetting
quit of them both. To sit there
and know that I was being watched was
more than my nerves could stand, and I

saw suspicion in Miss Naomi's eye. I had
repressed my love so long that now it was
punishing me by being rebellious.

I must get away — better not see him at
all than under supervision. I addressed
Miss Naomi.

'^ I should like to go home in the morning,
Miss Naomi ; my head aches this
evening, and I think quiet will be better
for me."

Mr. Levering looked up sharply.

** You said you were quite well. I shall
send for Weston."

I laughed.

'' Pray don't. Headache is not considered
an illness."

*' Mr. Lovering knows nothing of such
things, my dear. He never had one in
his life — not even the toothache. We will
leave you ; Quail shall bathe your head. If

you could go to sleep, it would do you
good. Come, brother."

Brother went.

When Quail came, my head was better,
and I would be alone. The next morning:
I went home,

Peggy and John had heard of one of
the ladies being locked up in the church,
but had no idea I was the lady.

"You'll just need to be quiet a bit,
Miss Grace," said Peggy, as she settled
me on the sofa before the blazing fire.
'^ You might be in a fever, by the look of
you. Them churches have given many a
body their death."

*' Let us hope it will not give me
mine."

"Now don't you laugh. Miss Grace.
You was always one for hiding your
feelings. When a child, if you jammed

jour finger you'd just wrap it in your
pinafore and say nothing. Yours is a
stout heart. Miss Grace."

I made no reply. I reflected that my
heart, whatever it was now, belonged to
another.

We sat and talked until the night,
Descending, filled the little room ;
Our faces faded from the sight,
Our voices only broke the gloom."

To some people how soothing is home !

I slept this afternoon tucked in by
Peggy, a calm peaceful slumber. The
ticking of the clock, the sighing of the
wind amongst the frost-covered trees in
the orchard, acting as a lullaby.

When I awoke, my eyes rested on
familiar objects, and when tea came I felt
worlds better.

It was eight o'clock when Peggy showed
Mr. Loverino' in.

Having kissed me to his satisfaction, he-consented
to allow me to resume my seat.

*you were wise to run away, Grace.
My patience would have soon been exhausted
following Naomi's rale. You will
have to invent excuses for my coming
here''

Stay away'*

*' I dare say. Something is troubling
you, Grace ; what is it ?"

^' Are you clever at reading faces ?"

*' I can read yours. Many a time I
knew that my coldness hurt you, and
when I saw you marching off* I cursed
your independence. It was as much as I
could do to keep from snatching you up."

How did I look r

** Look ! brave, cool, high-spirited.

Barely were you down-hearted. But
when you supposed yourself unnoticed, a
weary sad expression came into your pale
face that made my heart ache to see. And
then, when I spoke, how you brightened,
and let your fancy have freedom. One
moment witty, the next uttering grave
tender sentiments that spoke plainly of
the gentle heart you owned. I saw that
solitude to you was not unpleasant, but
that you were disposed for society — that
your lonely life was due to circumstances,
not inclination."

I had no idea you were watching me."

** 1 did not intend that you should have.
I wanted to make you love me as I loved
you. I am selfish."

'' What will your sisters say when they
know?"

His face darkened.

"Never mind what they say, pay no
attention to them. We will keep it quiet
for a little, Grace ; it is better in this case
indeed, in most."

It did not matter to me how honos our
engagement was kept secret, and I could
not see any necessity for finding an excuse
for secrecy.

It was our pleasure, and in my opinion
that was ample reason. I was averse to
publicity, I had no one to please or displease
by marrying, no one to congratulate me.
His uneasiness I could not understand.
I would name the subject no more, since it
was painful to him.

After a few moments I had driven the
cloud from his face and made him laugh.
Reluctantly he bade me good evening.

Some day, Grace, it will be different ;
my fireside will be yours, and then "

And then," echoed m my ears long
after his footsteps had died away.

It was my first love, and fate willed
that I should have my share of dreams
and hopes.

He came as often as he could without
attracting too much notice, and a diamond
ring glittered on my engaged finger.

He met me in the meadows and walked
a few yards with me, or waited for me in
Danver and drove me home.

I was happier than I had ever been.
My friends the Leetes had not been to seeme
through the winter, for the severity of
the weather prevented those unaccustomed
to outdoor exercise taking any great
quantity. We had eight weeks' hard
frost. My duties claimed my attention,
in spite of the weather, and, to my astonishment,
a festivity.

Mrs. Wood invited me to accompany
them to a '*' Christmas-tree party," some
miles in the country. It was given by a
nephew of Mrs. Wood's to the children in
the neighbourhood.

'you icill go with us, Miss Sharland ?"
Circumstances had formed a fence round
me ; and having no excuse ready, I accepted.
Perhaps, on the whole, it was
wise to be on good terms with everyone,
so I went to Mr. Roy den's Christmas-tree.
As Mrs. Wood said, it was remarkably
good of him to provide such a treat for
the children, a most delicate attention.
Why I was included in the party I failed
to see.

We drove there in an omnibus, and kept
as warm as we could with russ and foot-farmers.
When we did get there, we
were evidently not expected.

I thought possibly we had come too-early,
for though nearly one o'clock, there
was no sign of the early luncheon included
in the performance.

The house was well warmed, large fires,
roaring in every room upstairs and down.

Mr. Hoyden greeted us in a slightly
constrained manner, and I, being ridiculously
sensitive, became uncomfortable, and
heartily wished myself safe and snug by
my own fireside.

Having taken off our cloaks and hats,,
we were invited into a parlour, and introduced
wholesale to its inmates by Mr.
Hoyden.

"My aunt, Mrs. Wood, Mrs. Dalsh, Miss
Dalsh, Miss Wood, Miss Sharland, Miss
Temple, Mr. Tudor, Mr. Scots."

I saw Mrs. Wood and Miss Temple
make gracious bows towards one end of

the room. I naturally looked in that
direction. The next instant I devoutly
wished I hadn't, for there, squeezed into
an old-fashioned black horsehair sofa,
sat the Dalsh's —-mother and two
daughters.

Not a muscle of their sallow faces
moved ; they just stared at us, and edged
a trifle closer together.

Mrs. Wood spoke, remarked upon the
severity of the weather ; and Mrs. Dalsh,
craning her yellow, skinny neck out of her
ironed black silk, informed us that they
had come '' Hall the way lout from
Egerton in a chaise."

The silence which followed was agonising.
Roars of laughter came from the
next room, where the gentlemen were; and
Constance, seizing upon a handy volume
of " The Stao^e Door," held it before her

VOL. II. 31

face, and quietly followed their example
behind it.

I turned to the open piano and commenced
to play softly.

Talk they would not ; they persisted in
sitting and staring at us.

The door opened, and a man entered.
Fat, coarse, impudent, with the undisguised
impression stamped on his vulgar
features of perpetually saying a good
thing — the fact being that when not intolerably
stupid he was insufferably insolent.


It was Pa DjJsh.

With his mouth twisted to one side, and
a leer on his white face, he made a set at
me ; and bending till his odious breath
heated my cheek, he told me that he
had '' Never met the equal of Mr. Not's
for playing."

As soon as ever I could escape from
him, I did ; but I was honoured throughout
the entertainment bv his addressing
me as Mrs. Hays.

I, of course, made no effort to disabuse
his mind of the idea. I was only too glad
that he did not know my name.

In time came the call to luncheon, which
was a capital cold collation, served ina
roomy farm kitchen. At this young
Dalsh appeared ; an immensely tall youth,
with pa's face. We were getting on very
well.

I happened to sit next to Mr. Not,
who was an intelligent, educated man,
when Dalsh, junior, startled me by jumping
up like a Jack-in-the-box, and after nearly
braining himself with a bird cage slung to
the ceiling, managed to splutter out the
wish, while flourishing his glass in true

31—2

public-house style, that we might '^ Hall
ave a 'happy new year."

I avoided looking at Constance and Miss
Temple, both being terribly distressed by
the evident mirth of Mr. Tudor and Mr.
Scots.

I was much exercised in my mind to
conjecture where Mr. Hoyden had picked
up such a set. Eventually, I had greater
reason to wonder, for the afternoon company
were almost too much for my endurance.


The children trooped in, merry, excited,
and repaired to a room, where Mr. Not
and another gentleman, dressed as father
Christmas and his wife, were acting to an
appreciative audience.

Meanwhile spectators like ourselves
crowded the rooms below.

The most amusing were, perhaps, the

Wing family — three daughters, one son,
and papa.

They were rich, and all praise due to
papa, he had liberally educated his children.
These young people were suffocating with
their grandeur and learning ; and,^though
periodical resorts to London, and a finish
in Germany, had laid on a varnish, it was
by no means thick enough to hide the
common, raw material underneath.

One of the damsels was enofaofed to
Mr. Hoyden in a mysterious and melancholy
manner. They avoided each other,
and he grew furious when asked about the
wedding. Their modesty was of a new
order — it suggested shame.

Papa Wing was fat and aged, and never
at any time, I imagine, renowned for
beauty. His head boasted a few odd tufts
of carmine hued wool ; his teeth resembled

fossils, and ornamented his jaws at intervals.
As if conscious of the (thank
heaven !) rare possession of such valuable
objects, he smiled and talked indefatigably,
and laid such stress upon words, and gave
them such peculiar intonation, as to raise a
doubt in the mind of his listeners as to
whether he was talking English.

Mrs. Wood attracted him, and seating
himself cautiously by her side, he began
to explain at great length the present representatives
of a once noted firm.

*' It his, I assure you, a fact ; there his at
present only one hold lady, just one hold
lady left, mari. We hold fogies will
hall be gone present, and then the young
ones will 'ave their fling. I tell my girls
Ashen they want to play Batch (Bach) tome
— ' Stop ; I don't like Batch ; sing me a
hold song with a toon in it.' Don't I, Liz ?"

Liz, who owns a flaming red head, and
is warming her dirty, coarse hands round
a big cup of tea, lifts her dulcet voice ina
yell of laughter ; and papa proceeds :

"As we was comines alone:, we met Mr.
Han drew with 'is good lady and grownup
family hall a-going to the reception
bin their carriage and pair of 'horses. And
Mr. Hand re w a-puts 'is 'ed lout of the
window and boos."

All praise to Mrs. Wood. She listened
attentively, with merely the pleasant smile
of an amiable lady on her countenance.

How honos we were to endure this infliction
I could not ascertain, and my attention
was next claimed by a lady (so called)
who arrived in a state of temper and
magnificence unequalled by any there.

She openly expressed her disgust ; had
she not thought it was a 'dress party,"

she would not have come, or permitted
Sissie " or '' Toddy" to join.

In the excess of her vexation, she
pounced upon pretty " Toddy," pinched
her, and put her behind the door.

The fun now ran fast and furious ; the
afternoon waned, and the approaching
darkness seeming to encourage the timid
and banish restraint, we unanimously beat
a retreat.

It was a cold drive home ; but to gain
that haven I would have tramped every
foot of the way twice over.

Lonely I never felt, for every evening
the scent of a cigar warned me that someone
was taking heed of my well-doing.

"A fool always comes short of his reckoning."

The weather of course made no difference
in my pursuits, and I called regularly at
the mill.

One reason for my constant attention
was Mrs. Leetee's health, and another my
fancy for Mary. Things were not going
well with these good people.

Mrs. Leetes was rapidly hastening to
her grave, and the sons with equal
rapidity to their ruin. Their mother's
weak habit of screening youthful faults had

worked very badly for the young men,
and they regarded their father as a natural
enemy, from whom their pursuits and
connections must be concealed.

Nothing could have been very well
worse. Mary was the only one who remained
loyal, and recognised in the firm
hand a sure guide. The father, finding
them so little like himself, was gradually
losing heart.

Annie was too weak-minded to take any
decided part ; and so long as she was not
crossed, or deprived of anything, took very
little interest in what was going on. Moreover,
she was in love, with the probability
of marriage not far distant.

Mr. Leetee looked careworn and harassed.
Mrs. Leetee was dying, and dying
in terror of '' John."

Mary had changed remarkably. There

was a motherly thoughtfulness mixed with
displeasure in her manner towards her
brothers, that could not well be mistaken.
If anyone knew them for what they were,
it was this young girl.

It was not long before Mrs. Leetee took
to her bed. Mary was now the chief stay.

Annie, always excessively pretty and
fretful, concluded her share in the house
was finished when she had stitched a few
buttons on. I saw the light in Mrs.
Leetee's eyes grow dimmer ; I felt the
clasp of her hand slacken each day.

The end came as the end of all things
will come. She died at the beginning of
March.

I called the same day, and Mr. Leetee
asked me if I would stay a few days with
his daughters. I did so ; but proved of
slight service to Miss Leetee, who tormented

the dressmaker and Mary by turns. Her
grief was so utterly selfish as to savour of
the ridiculous, and that was why no one
sympathised with her, of which she complained
loudly.

There was another member of the family
who received a ]are share of my attention,
and that was Peter Leetee. This young
man's utter imbecility shocked me so that
I tried to hide it.

His mother had always loved him much,
and extolled his ** good-nature." I now
comprehended what that was. She, poor
silly woman, termed it *' good nature ;"
the world, less partial, and therefore more
just, called it foolishness, and the owner
thereof a fool.

END OF VOL. IL

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS AND Electrolysis, GUILDFORD,

A WOMA/S l^mtTAu

HELEN Die KEN 9^

i- Amor

Thun

Diversity

or ILLINOIS

D553vg
V.3

^ flobcl.

BT

HELEN DICKENS,

AUTHOR OK "Married AT LAST," "THE MILL WHEEL," "WILD WOOD,
"THE HOME OF FAITH."

Though the mills of God grind slowly,
Yet they grind exceedingly small ;

Though with patience He sUtnds waiting,
With exactness grinds He all."

Longfellow.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :
CHARLES J. SKEET, 10, KING WILLIAM STREET,

CHARING Ces 8.

1881.

[All Bights Reserved.]

A WOMAN'S REQUITAL.

o>»4«

CHAPTER I.

Love for a whole life long !
When was that sung ?"

He sat and wept for his mother like any
baby, particularly after sore brandy and
water. Mary took little notice of him, and
I saw her contempt when he began in a
silly lisping way to '^ Mary dear " her.

She did her best to get him to attend to
business ; but he seemed to have the knack
of frittering his time away. In the middle

VOL. III. 32

of the morning he would come in complaining
of headache, and ask for wine. Mary's
brows would contract, and she complied
with the request very reluctantly.

During the day Mr. Leetee would come
in asking for Peter, who divided his time
between the sideboard and the cage in the
garden where he kept his game fowls.

It was during one of these morning
inroads that he honoured me by laying
at my feet his elegant person and poverty.
He had not a penny, and unless his
father provided for him he would bea
pauper all his life.

His love affairs were well known to me ;
he was continually finding some adorable
creature to whom he presented a ring
or locket. His mother had been his
confidant. Now he had no resource but
to tell Mary, his brain being too shallow

to contain such a gigantic project as well
as his name and address.

Laughter would have been heartless
in a house of mourning, or I should have
given vent to my amusement in the poor
thing's face. I declined the proposal as
gravely as I could, and escaped from the
room. Very shortly afterwards Mary
joined me. Dear Peter had told her of
his disappointment, and predicted for himself
a speedy and touching death.

Mary laughed heartily.

'' You don't know the trouble Peter's
love affairs are to me, Grace. I wish
someone would marry him, but I cannot
think anyone foolish enough will ever be
found."

I agreed with her.

It was some time before I met Mr.
Peter Leetee again. My duties occupied

32—2

my time fully, and my heart drew homewards
more than ever.

Just a week before Easter, Mr. Leetee
came to see me. I liked this man much.
I thought that in a great trouble I could
unburden my mind to Mary's father.

After a little general conversation he
said :

'' Miss Sharland, I am in a bit of a
fix. Annie is not strong, and Weston says
a change of air is necessary. She cannot
go alone, and I cannot spare time to take
her. I had a long talk with Mary this
morning about going with her sister, and
she refused to do so most decidedly.

'* ^ I will not go with Annie alone, papa ;
we do not get on well. And you would
be miserable here by yourself, papa, with
only the boys. Try and find Annie a
companion.'

The only companion I care to have
for her is you, Miss Sharland, and perhaps
you would not object to spending a little
time at Brighton. When are your holidays."


*' Easter is soon, and then I have about
a fortnight."

*will you consider my proposal, my
dear V

Yes, Mr. Leetee I will, and write you
my decision."

I not only considered the matter myself,
but mentioned it to Mr. Lovering, and it
was decided that I should go.

I found, greatly to my joy, that Mr.
Lovering had an excellent opinion of
Mr. Leetee ; but considered he had made
a mistake in the management of his
family.

To Brighton we accordingly repaired,

and took up our position in comfortable
apartments on the parade.

Annie was in her glory, and became,
owing to excitement, tolerably intelligent.

There were plenty of visitors, of whom
the Israelites made the greatest appearance
and displayed the most wealth.

Luckily for me, Annie's stupidity did
not weary me very much, because she
occupied herself with fancy work when indoors.


Exercise she disliked, and often begged
me to walk alone.

The aquarium was a great attraction tome,
as well as other people, and thither I
bent my steps this Tuesday morning.

Ever drifting, drifting, drifting.

On the shifting
Currents of the restless main
Till in sheltered coves, reaches

Of sandy beaches,
All have found repose again."

It was a bright fresh clear day, and the
smell of the salt sea was pleasant to me.

There was to be a grand concert that
evening, and fresh plants were being arranged.


This induced every person who came
that way to remain and gaze.

Not caring for a crowd, I moved on and
took my seat in a far shady cool corner,
opposite some cases of shell-fish, prettily
arranged with rocks and sea-weed.

Naturally I thought of the being I loved
best in the world. He had not written.
We agreed that a correspondence under
the circumstances would be injudicious. I
was not unhappy. True love does not
diminish by separation.

My life, though peaceful enough to beholders,
had been interrupted by storms,
and now that my craft was about to be
moored into a harbour of refuse I allowed
myself the privilege of looking back.

My heart ached at past sorrows, and I
regretted my dead energy and courage.
I knew that I could never again do
what I had done — my senses had numbed
half my nerve. It is a mockery to

congratulate a woman when she has
conquered and earned the world's commendation.


By that time her interest is dead, and
the glory over which others rejoice makes
her shudder. Every heart knows its own
bitterness, and no bitterness is keener than
the knowledge that your race is nearly run
before you are any age to speak of.

The weariness of heart and brain is a
debility for which there is no cure.

A sigh escaped me, and it had scarcely
died ere my hand was taken, and I was
called by many endearing names.

I was too glad to hide my feelings, and
if twenty people had been there I should
have kissed the big smiling mouth just
the same.

*' What a fierce little love it is ! Have
you wanted me, Grace ?"

*' A thousand times. But — what have
you come for ?"

To see you, Grace. There is a peculiar
desire on the part of my feet to follow in
the track of yours, accompanied b}' a
harassing sensation at the left side of my
waistcoat, which denotes that we are
happier together than apart."

*' We ? why we ? I have made no complaint
!"

True, you have not. You would not
gratify me sufficiently by making any such
spontaneous confession. Grace, I could
wish you were less cautious, more quick-blooded
and impulsive."

'' And then, sir 1"

I might find a suggestion I am about
to make more readily agreed to."

*' Try, sir. If there is reason and justice

in the proposal, you will not find me tardy
at acquiescing."

*' That is pressing the point. If! That
analytical propensity of yours will in all
probability test the proposition and find it
diluted, and on those grounds reject it."

*' It is unlike you to advise hasty and
careless judgment."

Ah I already you are on the alert.
Your eye says, ' You have a motive in
view, William.' "

*' And you have ?"

'' I have."

^' William, you know that your happiness
is mine."

** Is it ? We will not decide upon that
point until you hear what I have to
say."

He kept me by his side, holding my
hand.

'' Grace, when a man reaches my time of
life, he does not love in the lukewarm -
fashion of seventeen. At that age, change
and time work marvels ; at mine the
object coveted must be possessed, as already
its influence has altered the current of his
being. The promise of possession is fair
enough, but immediate possession does
away with all doubt. Before I saw you
I was like many another man, just existing,
and not sufficiently interested in
anyone to be moved by their sayings or
doings. Now all is different, and you have
wrought the change. You make my
happiness, my interest in life — do I make
yours V

'' Yes."

** Then here is my suggestion, that we
marry."

I promised to marry you, William."

*' I know, and I wish to have that
promise realised, Grace."

I was not averse to letting him see that
his affection comprised my whole happiness.
I had the idea that to hide it might
arrive him.

Since those days I have proved how
unnecessary was my precaution, and how
foolish it is to stake all on frail humanity.
Experience, however, is only obtained
through sufferings, and those who would be
wise must endure.

My silence he attributed to unwillingness
to marry at once.

Grace, you promised in the church that
night that whenever I asked you you
would be my wife."

I know I did ; and I am ready to
fulfil it."

A woman of her word is worth her

weight in gold. I would not part with
you for it !"

His harsh love did not terrify me — it
attracted me. Had he uttered silly,
spoony phrases, and followed me like a
lap-dog, I should have scorned and repelled
him. His passionate face and
Utterance seemed to me typical of man's
love, and becoming to a strong, reserved
nature.

My own affection was only in one degreeless.
I could not have got up scenes or
paraded my feelings for worlds. It was
of his peculiar temperament that I was
proud.

To have been loved by a man to whom
love was common would have found
no favour in my sight — produced no response.
But to gain the ascendency over
a nature that had few equals, either good

or bad, was a victory of which any woman
might well be proud.

Our plans were soon formed.

The visit to Brighton expired that day
week, and we were supposed to return
home on the following one.

According to Mr. Coverings's directions,
I stated my intention of proceeding to
visit Mr. Cartland, instead of returning to
Holland with Annie.

To tell a lie was repugnant to me ; and
I said so to Mr. Loverino:.

He laughed at me.

I hated this lie : it was like takins* the
devil's wao^es, and 1 thought if some evil
befell me it would serve me right, for 1
was acting against my conscience. Nothing
did happen to me.

By my advice he kept out of Annie
Leetee's sight, and on the following Tuesday

I left the house ere Annie was down,
took a cab, drove to the church, and was
married.

I had a black dress and bonnet on, and
I met a funeral.

The ceremony over, I left Mr. Lovering
and returned to the lodgings. I assisted
Annie to pack, walked with her, stood
before the very tank where I had promised
to be a wife that day week.

I wondered whether the fishes, gliding
in the blue-green water amongst the shamrocks
and seaweed, knew what I had
done. I had taken the one irrevocable
step in a lifetime, and sought no one's
counsel ere doing it.

On the Wednesday, Annie Leetee went
home, and I took my way to the station
an hour after. There I joined my
husband.

Good Mr. Cartland ! he would have
been glad to see me for my mother's sake,
and his wife would have liked me for
his.

Not to them did I go.

VOL. in. 33

Hence be this new work assigned,
And ordered by the master mind !"

We drove past their house in the park
several times, but saw no signs of its
master. The season, with its many attractions,
failed to draw Mr. Cartland from his
musty chambers.

No doubt one of the numerous, neat
equipages we constantly met contained the
mistress of that charming house across the
park. I had never been used to town life,
and I soon tired of the heat and bustle.

Can we go into the country, William?"
I ask, /'one day, when we are going for a
drive."

*^ Yes. We will go into the country today,
if you like, Grace."

We went to the inn at the foot of Box
Hill. I liked it, liked the shadow of the
hill thrown into the garden, liked the
stream that trickled and purled under the
bridge across the road.

The house was quiet, excepting when
parties came for the day, or pedestrians
stopped to drink at the bar.

I was happy. The peacefulness of the
place rested my brain, and I grew more
reconciled to the parting. We were to
return to Holland in our old characters of
tenant and landlord.

In a little time William would have
broken the news to his sisters, and 



stalled them in another house some seven
miles from the Manor. Then I was
to take my place as his wife. It was
very simple — just to have patience and
wait.

I was to give up teaching, and say I
was going to be married.

This arrangement I did not approve of.
T knew I should not like an idle life, and
the time while waiting would not seem so
long if I occupied it.

I did not regret having married hastily
and secretly. I loved my husband too
much to regret anything. We wandered
about the leafy lanes, and visited every
place of any note.

The landlady of the inn was a young,
pretty creature, the landlord considerably
older and uglier. Her unhappiness was
apparent, and the incessant wailing of her

sickly baby told very plainly of the
mother's previous disquietude.

Her lips quivered as she described the
dreariness of the place in the winter.
They shut up all the house but the bar
part, and I could picture her shivering,
yet afraid to speak, as the blast blew
down from the hill, and her big, brutish
husband snored.

Poor thing I there was a story there ;
a secret to be kept. William laughed at my
interest in the woman, and suggested that
she would become reconciled to her lot.
1 did not agree with him. I did not make
a point of always agreeing with my husband,
after the fashion of most new
wives.

Men like being contradicted sometimes,
especially by a woman who has confidence
in her own judgment.

People did not take us for a newly-married
couple ; we were too independent
and companionable for that.

The honeymoon waned ; only two more
days and then we parted, and my weddings
must be hung round my neck on a
piece of ribbon.

William's face wore the old expression
of resistance, a silent challenge that no
one with an atom of sense would be in a
hurry to accept.

I was sitting at the window listening to
the thrush's evening song in the elder-trees,
and my eyes, raised to one particular
pane of glass, noticed scratches thereon.
Absently I studied them, and presently
spelt out a name : '' Rose Russell."

William !" I called ; '' here's such a
pretty name written on this window."

'' Your own, I suppose ? Are you going

to ornament the old farm windows
similarly, Grace ?"

He drew me on to his knee.

My dear William, your wife is not
romantic. Do you see it T'

^^No."

*' I forgot ; very likely you can't — you
are old. When you are quite blind,
William, I will lend you my eyes. It is
right for young and old to marry, then
they are not decrepid together."

*' Very nice, indeed, madam ; but I
fancy you will not get many to endorse
your opinion."

We are happy, William, and what on
all the earth should I have done with a
young husband 1 He would have worried
the life out of me, and danced attendance
upon somebody else's wife. Don't you
think that a pretty name T

I have not heard it yet."

Then hear now, ' Rose Russell' "

I can remember this minute, as if yesterday,
the fearful cry, the bound that threw
me against the wall, and the starting
eyes that were lifted in terror to the
window. I was stunned.

^^ William! William! are you ill T I
screamed.

The livid face relaxed, the white lips
smiled, and, with a gasping sigh, he
encircled me with trembling arms, and
strove to quiet me.

Be calm, Grace, my darling ; do not
bring in the household. I shall be quite
well again directly."

How he shook ! how he panted !

My poor husband ! In a few moments
I ventured to inquire if he felt better, and
the nature of his ailment.

Yes, dear, quite better. I am sorry I
frightened you, but it came so suddenly.
I hurt my side when that pony knocked
me down some few years since, and at
times I feel the effects. It is nothing ;
forget it, Grace !"

I could not. It was queer; he had been
in perfect health and spirits not a second
before. The trembling did not subside fora
loner time, and through the nio^ht he
scarcely slept. It was fancy ; my brain
was fevered, doubtless, yet I could have
sworn that my husband's voice calling,
Hose ! Rose 1" awoke me out of a
troubled dream. He was awake, so it
could not have been.

In the morning our sitting-room was
changed.

Why, what can have induced them todo
this ?" I exclaimed ; " they ought to

have asked us if we were agreeable to
the alteration."

'^ It is my doing, Grace. I asked them
to put us into another room."

This settled the subject.

The morning was cloudy and threatened
to rain, but William, skilled in foretelling
the elements' intentions, said no; that the
gloom would disperse, and we might venture
to the very top of the hill.

When I came down, dressed for walking,
I found my husband in earnest conversation
with the landlady.

His back was towards me.

And you cannot call to mind any of
3^0 ur visitors, Mrs. Pickford ?"

'' No, sir ; but I have not been here
honos. I am Mr. Pickford 's second wife."

'' Oh, indeed 1"

I did not wish to keep him in ignorance

of my presence longer — why, I did not
know.

I touched him.

He turned sharply, terror and rage
imprinted on his face.

*' Grace, pray do not repeat that experiment
; I object to being startled."

It was the first objection he had ever
made to anything I had done.

A retort was on my lips, but I saw
that he was agitated, and struggling to
hide it, so I said nothing.

He did not speak until we were three
parts up the hill.

Of what are you thinking, Grace V

'^ Of you."

Nothing to my detriment, I hope ?
I can only throw myself on your mercy ;
my late ill-temper was, I know, very
objectionable."

Oh I William, it is not of your temper
I was thinking, but of the cause of it."

Come, my dear Grace, you bewilder
me."

*•' Then your illness, if you prefer that
expression."

Yes, to be sure, I understand. And
what conclusion have you arrived at ?
What part of me is affected in your
opinion 'i '

You are making fun, William. Don't,
please don't. I feel so sad. Supposing
you are ill ? Your sisters will not let me
into the room, and I shall go mad."

T am not going to be ill, my dear,
don't you alarm yourself. It is a longtime
since I felt anything of the kind.
Oblige me by not alluding to it again."

A wife's duty is to obey, and I obeyed.
The time for separation approached, and

every moment made it harder. How
would I conceal my feelings, and meet my
husband as a stranger ? It had been
difficult to treat him as an acquaintance
when I loved him, during all that long
silent time. What should I do without
the tenderness, the loving care and companionship
?

My heart turned coward ; and my
husband, looking into my face, read my
thoughts.

He comforted me.

The next day we parted, after prolonging
the bitter moment with extraordinary ingenuity.


When hearts have once mingled

Love first leaves the well-built nest,
The weak one is singled

To endure what it once possest."

I RETURNED first : Mr. Lovering would
remain in London a day or two longer, to
disarm suspicion.

The miserable old rattletrap of a fly
from the station crawled at a snail's pace
up the hill, the sunlight revealing all the
imperfections of the dirty moth-eaten
machine.

Up Holland was steeped in sunshine;

the garden was full of the odour of earls
flowers and herbs. In the road I saw
Mrs. Duckworth and her husband. They
bowled very condescendingly.

I thought how one peep at the slender
hoop of gold hanging round my neck
would infuse more geniality and respect
into their manner.

And I smiled partly at the thought,
partly at Peggy.

*•' How are you, Miss Grace ; ain't we
just glad to have you back though I"

I gave her to understand I was glad to
return — I could not say it. When unpacking,
I came upon the stock of money
William had given me — fifty pounds.
I was never to be short of pocket-money
again, never to want for anything anymore.


Peggy's call to supper roused me from

my reverie, and I hastened down, not
caring any longer to indulge in such
thoughts. My happiness was too great.
I feared what I could not tell ; but it sent
a chill to my heart, so lately thrilling with
love. It was a warm evening, and I
strolled out, choosing the path by the
wood leading to my home. . The air was
full of the song of birds, it was one of the
very brightest of evenings, and yet tome
there was a darkness, a shadow whereever
I looked.

I met two of the servants from the
Manor — they bowed most respectfully.
My fame as an actress had reached the
servants' hall, and made me of some
consequence in their eyes.

I now found I was very near the Manor,
and at once retraced my steps.

He was not there — why need I trouble

to go. Again the chill at my heart, and I
turned in terror. I decided that my secret
was too much for me, and the sooner
I got the better of such fancies the more
sensible it would be.

For the first time I dreaded my own
thoughts. Now that I had come back
to my old home, the scene of my struggle
for a living, I trembled at what I had
done.

I was an impostor. Where was the
feeling of courage that had supported me
when I first came, a poor proud orphan ?
It had fled. I was a coward now, now
that my name as a teacher insured me an
income as long as I could earn it. My
courage faded before the knowledge that I
had practised a deception.

I was not on good terms with myself
A secret marriage. As I whispered it

VOL. in. 34

my face flushed. It was not what I,
Grace Sharland, should have done. I
ought to have guarded my name, my
conscience. I might have known it would
reproach me.

What had I been about to lower my
intellect sufficiently to permit myself to
be overruled in a matter concerning dishonour
? I would have given half my life
to undo what I had done, as I stood alone
in the room that night. Never say evil
comes unheralded. I shivered and panted
beneath the weight that was crushing:
me — a weight that had neither shape nor
name ; it existed alone in my imagination.

My brow was damp as I opened the
door to rush to Peggy, anywhere away
from my own thoughts. I was met by
a whine of affection, and a cold nose was
slipped into my hand.

It was Rap, his dog. What instinct
could have led the dog to me ? It seemed
as though this brute, dumb to all else,
knew of the link between us. I embraced
him — he had come in the nick of time.

How foolish I had been ; my husband
was true, high-minded, the soul of honour
our marriage would only be kept secreta
little while. Surely I did not doubt the
man I had married '( No, no !

With the great rough head between my
hands I grew calmer, and reasoned myself
into a more comfortable mood.

When I released him, every doubt had
gone. It proved, however, that I congratulated
myself too early.

My evil genius was still lurking in the
recesses of my brain, and only awaited
the arrival of sleep to recommence the torture.


34—2

My slumber was broken until towards
daybreak : then I fell into so deep a sleep
that not even my sufferings could awaken
me.

I stood before a crowd of people, an
offending, accused woman. They would not
come near me, nor suffer me to approach
them. Lips were curled in scorn, fingers
pointed at me in derision. I strove to speak,
to defend myself, and I could not. /
was clmnh. Not a sound could I utter.

Whatever my crime, surely my punishment
was its equal in severity.

I struggled into wakefulness almost convulsed
; probably a second more and I
should have succumbed to the fit my
agonised brain was invoking. I had
neither sight nor sense for a time. Then,
as the vessels in my brain resumed their
original size and ths congealed blood circulated,

my reason regained its power, and
I heard the crowing of the cocks, the
lowing of the cows. It was getting
light. I got up and crawled to the
window. I was weak and sore like any
poor beaten creature. I opened it, and
lay with my head on the sill. I could
not shake off the terror that again oppressed
me.

Eagerly I sought the presence of some
living creature — I could not endure my
own thoughts. I went into the yard.
The men where getting ready to go out.
John was feeding the pigs and issuing
directions. They seemed amazed to seeme
so early.

Peggy was lighting the fire. I busied
myself indoors, and as the time approached,
casting anxious glances towards the road,
hoping to see the postman.

My longing was at length satisfied. I
had a letter — an invitation bidding me to
Lucy Leetee's marriage. It was to be
extremely quiet, owing to their recent
bereavement.

I accepted. I liked the Leetes.

Like the swell of some sweet tune,
Morning rises into noon,
May glides onward into June."

I HAD been home four days when the
master came. I heard his voice in the
barn, and saw his cautious glances when
he neared the house. My eyes were full
of tears, and I had to leave the kitchen.

Surely he would not go away without
comines in. It was too hard to imagine.
My self-possession was deserting me. I
loved my husband as few wives love.

He came at last, and Peggy must have

been more innocent than any other woman,
or she would have thought the greeting
unnecessarily constrained. But only until
the door was shut : then his affection found
vent in words and actions.

I besought him to be prudent. He
laughed and defied prudence.

I was his wife, his very own darling,
etc. — he said, just what all men say.

It was the old old story, that comes
new once to the most learned woman.
And I listened and believed, as I hope
every woman will, as I hope you have
done, reader.

Love is the one ennobling passion of a
life. No woman is tempered for adversity
till her heart has passed through the
furnace of doubt.

Try to live unloved, unloving ? You
"will soon weary of existence, or give yourself

over to the worship of some idol —
money, ambition, fashion. Better lovesome
other creature who may benefit by
and reward your fidelity.

Even unrequited affection is not without
its advantages. It is refining and
subduing, beautifies the afflicted, renders
them unselfish, patient, and henceforth
proof to the evils and dangers of humanity.


I listened, and believed all the earnest
protestations he made, and returned his
caresses. It was entrancing. In his
repulsive visage I saw beauty, in his harsh
tones I heard music.

How Satan must have laughed as he
looked on, and twitted the angels at
having outwitted them!

I could laugh myself, only that — but
never mind. We will not anticipate evil,

let us for this once be happy and — believe.
Never had an hour seemed so short.
When he went he took my heart away
with him.

By degrees I became accustomed to
these visits, and we managed to utter no
small amount of love in the time allotted
for us to see each other. Then we had
accidental meetings in the lanes, about the
farm, on the way to the station ; and my life
was pleasant enough, noth withstanding the
secret that rather weighed upon me when
in a reflective mood.

Lucy Leetee's marriage day arrived, and
I went in a bewitching toilet of mauve,
because William wished it, and gave me
twenty pounds to pay for it.

*' It is too much, I shall not spend half
of it."

You will, you must. Remember you

are now my wife, no longer independent
Miss Sharland. How proud you
were, Grace, and how sarcastic ! You vexed
me at times. Only I saw that behind all
that there was a sad yearning in the brave
heart for love and companionship. No
other woman could have bewitched me as
you did. You stabbed me cruelly with
that barbed tongue of yours, and then
looking up five seconds after, drew the
wound together with the tender est glance,
making me more in love with you than
ever. Grace, what made you behave so V

I laughed. The recollections of my own
struggles and perplexities were vivid
enough.

I could not be sure that you cared forme,
William ; and you were so strange
you spoke and acted sometimes as if contrary
to your desire."

'^ Really ? Remember that, Grace, keep
it in your memory. It will convince you
that I did make an attempt to find the
straight path ; also, one day, enable you to
estimate the struggle that was going on
when I appeared most repulsive."

^' Now you are speaking in riddles, and
I feel almost as much provoked as I used
to do when you snubbed me, or persisted
in naming your loves. One was named
Dora.' How often were you in love,
pray V

'^ Twenty times, perhaps, in love, or what
passed for it. Supposing we let those
ladies rest — they were not of your order."

*' I suspect not. They believed at once,
and flattered you perpetually. Now I did
neither one nor the other. I cannot think
what made you care for me."

Nor I. Your impatience and evident

wish to avoid me pricked my vanity,
roused my curiosity to know more of you,
and when I knew that much, it was not
enough. There is something peculiarly
attractive about you, Grace. You are not
lovely, nor given to any display of emotion
or affection ; but you are the sort of
woman whom a man having once cared for
can never forget. / tried hard to forget
you — make a note of that — and failed. Tell
me," he added almost directly, '^ do you
like the Leetes V^

Yes, very much. Do you V
'* Oh yes ! But T know very little of
them, and I scarcely think they are suitable
friends for — my wife."

My lips tightened. I had an aversion
to considering such matters. I felt that I
could hold my own — I had always done so,
and 1 did not like taking refuge behind

the screens society sets up for its poor
defence.

The Leetes were nice, homely, well-principled
people, and they had been
kind to me. There was the head and front
of the whole matter.

My nature Alas divided thus : I either
loved or hated, liked or disliked.

A kindness I never forgot, and the
poorest of God's creatures might make mea
debtor for life by one genuine act of
liberality and good-nature.

But a slight, the deliberate denial of a
benefit, however small, planted in my
memory a scorn, a spirit of contemptuous
repugnance, that neither time nor endeavour
could extract.

At the Leetes' hands I had received
many benefits, much comfort. 1 had been
warmed and fed, cheered with kind words.

And I had known they were in earnest.
There was not sufficient manner about
them to conceal hypocrisy.

Millers they might be, but in John
Leetee's breast there beat a heart noble
enough to belong to a king.

I could not help being surprised at
Mr. Lovering. I supposed him above
such quibbles.

You have made your discovery too
late, William, and at the same time amazed
me not a little. I thought you indifferent
to such trifles. I am sorry to find you are
not, as I could never do violence to my
feelings sufficiently to give the Leetes
what is termed the ' cold shoulder.'
When anvthino^ of that sort is to be done
you must do it yourself; and what is
more, dispense with my assistance."

*' My dear child, I am not asking you

to give the Leetes up — I merely made a
remark."

I know that, but a remark very often
may be read two ways."

'^ And you have the knack of reading
the wrong one, eh ?"

I generally select the most unpleasant,
for that, hitherto, has always been intended
for me."

'^ Hitherto, perhaps, but not henceforth,
my darling. Go to the Leetes and enjoy
yourself — in spirit I shall be with you."

Light SO low upon earth,

You send a flash to the sun.
Here is the golden close of love,
All my wooing is done."

To the wedding I went early enough to
dress the bride, and help Mary, who
worked body and brain to supply the
mother's place.

*^ When papa and I are alone, Miss
Garlands we shall be so happy."

Alone, Mary ?" I questioned ; '' how
about your brothers ?"

She smiled scornfully.

VOL. III. 35

*' Their bodies will be here of course, but
their small stock of brains will be scattered
as usual, so I reckon very little upon such
companionship. Sometimes I can see right
inside papa s mind ; I did the other evening,
and told him his thoughts."

He may not like that, Mary."

'^ He will. When they are unpleasant
ones I shall not utter them."

All was ready in good time, and we
stood at the window facing the old-fashioned
garden. The mill was stopped ;
Mr. Leetee had given a holiday. It Alas
the first wedding in the family. ' Lucy
was pretty and tearful ; she made little
pretensions of regret at leaving her home,
and Mary I knew rejoiced at her going.

I looked at the brave young girl with
her plain earnest face, and wondered when
sho would marry.

Something whispered to me " Never."
I was startled, and looked again. This
time I agreed with the whisper. It would
be never. Mars Leetee had not the face
to attract one man in a hundred. There
was at times too much acrimony in her
utterance to find favour.

She would be left like many another
woman, who, if fate had only sent the
man who could manage her, would have
made an exemplary wife and mother.

The wedding was very quiet, and soon
the small party broke up.

Mr. and Mrs. Ross left early, and the
boys went off to their several pastimes.

Mr. Leetee, Mary, and I, sat by the open
window talking. The garden was large,
and well stocked with trees, hiding the
walls, and old white mill that stood on
the river's bank.

35—2

UNIVERSITY OF

WllNOiS LIBRARY

The house had been in the Leetee family
for many many years, and was the oldest
in Danver.

Mr. Leetee was much changed, and
followed Mary with his eyes, I thought,
fearfully. Presently he uttered his
thoughts — Mary had been summoned indoors
:

'^ I hope some one will tell me if ever
I impose upon that child, or allow others
to do it. She is far too willing and
capable. I wish I had a son as earnest
and industrious."

'^ Do not trouble, Mr. Leetee ; Mary is
able to defend herself, and I do not
believe she would be half so happy with
nothing to do. You will find her all
anyone could desire, or I am much
mistaken."

I agree with you. Lucy's marriage

takes a load off my mind. Life is precarious.
But for Mary I have no fears. She will
always be able to help herself. My anxiety
is lest her own family should thoughtlessly
require too much of her, and forget her age.
Already I have noticed the constant cry for
'Mary when anything was needed; and her
prompt way of settling matters and setting
things to rights must increase the demands."

Depend upon it, Mary will not undertake
too much. Of one thing I am sure,
nothing would so seriously distress Mary
as to think you needed anything she
could supply, or felt neglected. Her one
idea is to make up for her mother's loss."

** Good child ! a right good child ! Well,
well, I must not get too anxious, or she
will fancy I do not trust her."

Further conversation was stopped by
Mary, who advanced with smiling face.

'' Just imagine, papa ! Mr. Lovering has
sent Lucy such a splendid present, A
case of silver salt-cellars. How pleased
she will be !"

My heart bounded. My husband was
generous, a quality I admired above every
other ; and he had not told me of his
intention on purpose to surprise me.

My praises did not sound very genuine,
for I was afraid of letting my heart dictate
too much and jeopardise my secret.

I agreed naturally, that he was very
kind, etc.

*' I did not expect anything from him.
We certainly are well acquainted. I have
ground his corn many a year, as well
as his father's before him. The name of
Lovering has been on the mill books many
a year. But I little thought he would
send Lucy a present. However, I take

it very kindly, T doubt not that it is a
well-meant attention."

'' Papa !" exclaimed Mary, drawing her
chair nearer, as if for a confidence, ^' I like
Mr. Levering."

Mentally, I " God blessed " her.

*^ Do you 1 That is what your mother
never did, Mary. She had a, rather
unreasonable dislike to Will Loverino:, for
her suspicion never was proved."

"What suspicion ? Tell us, papa."

'another time, Mary. I must go to
the mill ; I have letters to write, and
several accounts to square. Peter I know
is not there."

He ought to be, papa."

'' Mary !"

"Papa, I must say it, because it pulls
so at my heart. He ought to be there.
He is always shirking his duty, and idling

his time ; he will be ruined if it goes on —
good-for-nothing !"

Mr. Leetee made no reply, but walked

away.

'how could you say that, Mary !"

Really I hardly know, Miss Sharland ;
I never thought whether it was, or was
not, my duty to speak. It is some one's, it
is true, and papa knows it."

** Very likely ; let me give you a word
of advice. Never attempt to keep guard
over other people's actions or possessions.
It is the most thankless office, and all the
reward you will ever receive for your
endeavours will be abuse. Your brother
won't thank you for having an eye to his
welfare, and your father would just as
soon you did not see your brother's
failings."

Then he will grow up a worthless

fellow, knowing nothing, for he is just
frittering his time away, and playing at
being a miller."

"No doubt. Men are nearly all self-conceited,
selfish cowards, but they contrive
to impose upon the world in general, and
women in particular."

*' I should like to see the man capable
of imposing upon you, Miss Sharland,
though you are wonderfully good-natured.
Guess what I heard the other day '? A
story of Mr. Lovering's meanness."

'' What about ?"

Some fruit in a garden. He owns
a farm on the other side of Danver, and
he has let the house to a widow lady ; her
husband was a doctor in the town several
years. It is well known she is poor, and
he actually told her not to touch the
fruit in the orchard that nearly surrounds

the house. One day the servant took
upon herself to gather half-a-dozen gooseberries,
and he or some of his family saw
her, and he went and told Mrs. Cranfield.
What makes it richer, is that he requested
her to send the cottagers out whenever
they came in. If true, it is the meanest
action I ever heard of"

I turned my head away, conscious that
my face was burning with shame. Could
it be true ? To deprive a poor Avoman of a
handful of fruit.

To me he had been generous : had that
generosity been prompted by a selfish
motive ? Was he crafty ?

The pain this thought gave me I cannot
describe, for I held a mean cunning person
in such contempt and horror, that to know
I was in that person's power terrified
me.

'* Who told you this story, Mary '?"

'* Miss Webster, the dressmaker ; she
says it is known all over Danver. I don't
believe it, and I told her so."

*^ You did quite right ; I hardly credit it
myself."

'^ Miss Sharland, if ever I love anyone
more than papa, it will be some one like
Mr. Levering."

I burst out laughing.

Is he then so handsome ?'

That is not it, though he is quite as
handsome as I care for a man to be. I
should not wish to marry a perfect picture,
such as one reads about. He fascinates
me ; I could obey him, and forgive him his
faults. I could not dislike him if I wanted
to. I wonder why mamma did ; I must
know."

I began to feel rather alarmed. Supposing

she fell in love with him unbidden ?
Of course it would not kill her, but hers
was exactly the heart to carry a lasting
scar upon it.

If you are wise, Mary, you will not
trouble yourself about Mr. Lovering. He
is very nice no doubt, and for all we know
may be proportionately wicked."

*well," she retorted, "J. conclude we
all sin more or less ; but I believe that
some manage to deceive better than others,
and for a given time pass for better than
their brethren. I will think no evil of
Mr. Lovering until I hioio it."

With a decision that admitted of no
attempt to unsettle. Miss Mary got tea for
her papa and me, and went about her work
with as much earnestness and alacrity as if
it had been a matter of the greatest consequence.


Her dress she looped over her arm, and
as I watched I could not help being struck
by the promise of health and courage her
fine form and intelligent face gave. She
seemed possessed of every quality the others
lacked. She had an excellent constitution,
a fine nerve in emergencies, even temper,
determination, and a powerful intellect.
Mary Leetee was a remarkable woman.

The evening passed cheerfully and
pleasantly ; Mary and her father talking
in a clever strain flavoured with the
keenest humour, and making the moments

fly-some
people are charming at fireside
conversations, and Mary was one. It was
a pleasure to listen, and note the expressive
countenance kindle and soften according
to the subject discussed.

I thought then, that such a mind was a

rare possession, a ceaseless source of instruction
and interest. I know now that
to only one in every thousand is such a
treasure given, and those who can claim
kinship with the holder thereof may reckon
themselves fortunate people.

Before leaving 1 asked Mr. Leetee and
Mary to come and take tea with me the
following day.

I saw the branches of the trees
Bend down thy touch to meet,
The clover-blossoms in the grass
Else up to kiss thy feet."

The corn was stancliDg thick and ripe —
harvest was beginning. To me it is the
pleasantness season though the saddest, for
then I, like the farmers, reaped what I
had sown ; and God knows my measure
was brimming over.

Mary and her father drove over about
five, and we had tea ; such a tea as only
a farm-house can give. I was stroud of

my home, its simplicity and liberality was
uncommon, and wonderfully pleasing to
strangers.

We went into the garden, the yard, the
fields. I saw nothing of my husband. I
did not want to meet him for fear my eyes
betrayed me. I loved him better than
my own life, and never was more conscious
of it than this evening.

'splendid crops," saidMr. Leetee. 'your
landlord cultivates his land to perfection.
Miss Sharland. He must make a quantity
of money, he is so successful."

Who will he leave it to 1" marvelled
Mary. " Those old ladies have quite
enough ; besides they ought to die first, and
leave theirs to him. By the way, papa,
tell me why mamma never liked Mr.
Lovering V

We were at the remotest end of the rick-yard,

the meadows lay green and expansive
before us, flanked by the thick woods.
Away to the left could be seen a curl of
smoke indicating the whereabouts of the
Manor, and behind it the spire of Holland
Church.

It was a pleasant prospect, denoting industry
and wealth, and my heart fluttered
when I recollected how nearly allied I was
to everything, how rich in even a
monetary sense.

My eyes, used to seeking over fields for
the form they loved, caught sight of him
now, as he came down the pasture meadow.
Some young calves had been put there,
and he was looking at them.

He was in a reflective mood, for he sat
on a rail and became as immovable as the
wood.

My companions did not see him, or

VOL. III. 36

if they did, took him for some ploughman.


'' Miss Sharland !"

'' Yes, Mr. Leetee."

He was smiling at me, and knotting
a straw he had drawn out of a rick.

^'Are you curious to hear the cause
of my wife's dislike of Mr. Lovering ?" 1

'not very. It can matter nothing to me."

'^ So I know now, but my wife at one
time thought differently."

'' How r

In this way. She held your landlord
to be a wicked, dangerous man, and you
are an attractive young lady. You might
have fallen in love with him, and in that
case his past life would have had an interest
for you." ■ 1

It had an interest. My heart was
struggling to beat equally.

What of his past life ?

I conquered my fear, and asked :

Is there anything unpleasant connected
with Mr. Lovering's past life."

'^ I cannot tell you that ; my knowledge
of the circumstance basins and ends with a
suspicion of my late wife's. Whether true
or untrue, it caused her to dislike Mr.
Levering as I never knew her to dislike
any other person, for hers was a particularly
sweet nature."

'eyes, papa," replied Mary; 'but you
know some of those natures brood over
and nurse an idea until it becomes a
fact, and that, I think, is scarcely just.
Tell us what it was, then we can judge."

I turned towards the meadow. He was
still sitting on the rail, unconscious that I,
his wife, was about to pass judgment
upon him.

36—2

Dreading what might come, I breathed
a prayer in my heart, that I might love
him no less, that no whispering tongue
should rob me of my belief in him. I
remained looking at the still figure. Mr.
Leetee's voice roused me.

^^Then judge. When your mother and
I were young married people, Mr. Lovering
was a young fellow of perhaps twenty-two
or three, and giving his father some little
trouble on account of his extravagance
and wildness. He was always going
abroad, and very often did not return for
seven months. Your mother had for a
nurse-maid an exceedingly pretty girl out
of Danver. Her parents were superior
people, but poor, and they had given their
daughter some education, which helped to
set her above her station, and give her
silly ideas and a false position. As a

nurse, she did very nicely, and there being
but one child and the baby, her place was
an easy one. Her beauty was discussed
amongst the mill-men, and I did not
approve. I asked your mother to send
her away, but she would not, alleging asher
reason that the girl was well spoken,
and remarkably steady in her conduct.
This I knew to be correct ; she turned
her nose up at the men, and scoffed at the
honest affection of poor Ben Barley. Indue
course the baby commenced to cut
his teeth, and a weary time we had of
it. When you two have babies of
your own, you will understand what
that is.

One night your mother was walking
the room with him, and stopped at the
window. The moon was at the full, and
the garden as light as day. In three

minutes she was at the bedside : ' John !
John ! get up, Mr. Lovering is in the garden.'

' Nonsense, Mary ; what would he be
doing there V

*' * How can I tell ? Open the window
and ask him ; he is standing by the bay
tree.'

'' I got up — I opened the window ; I
could neither see nor hear anything.
Naturally I laughed, and your mother was
extremely indignant, and firmer than ever
in her assertion that she had seen Will
Lovering in the garden.

*the circumstance passed from my
mind, and I am certain would never have
returned to it, had not the nurse mysteriously
disappeared three days after. She
has not been heard of to this hour, to my
knowledge, and your mother declared that
Mr. Lovering had been the cause of her

going. The accusation was a serious one,
and I bade her be silent on the subject.
For my own part, I never believed he had
anything to do with the girl leaving her
home. She had wild romantic notions,
and when girls get muddled with suchlike
nonsense, they generally come to some
harm.

'•'Xow you know why your mother
disliked Mr. Levering, Mary."

*^ Was nothing ever heard of the girl,
papa ?"

^' No. There was a hat found in the
rushes at Rush-ferry, and it suggested the
idea that she had made away with herself.
But there was nothing to prove that the
hat even was hers, much less that she
was dead."

I had listened to every word with my
eyes fixed upon the figure in the meadow.

The calves had come to him, and one little
red one had snoozled its nose into his
hand.

I withheld my opinion ; a grave doubt a
terrible thought had suggested itself to my
mind. My sense of honour was intensely
shocked.

'' Papa," deliberately spoke Mary, *' the
story you have just related is ugly if true,
but to believe it upon such grounds would
be ridiculous and unjust. I dismiss it
from my mind."

'perfectly right, Mary; never until
you are obliged think ill of anyone. Be
quite certain of one thing, whoever it was,
their sin Avill find them out."

Their sin will find them out !

What a dreadful certainty, what a
horrible prospect, the coming of justice ;
the administration of a punishment perhaps

deferred for years, and from which there is
no escape.

Do you happen to recollect the girl's
name, Mr. Leetee ?"

'^ do : Rose Russell."

Rose Russell ! It echoed through the
rick-yard, the sheep bleated it, the geese
cackled it, and I remembered where I
had seen that name. Scratched on the
window in the Sun parlour, at the foot of
Box Hill.

My husband's indisposition and ill-temper
recurred to my memory with painful
accuracy. I had been the means of
recalling his sin to his mind — I, his wife,
had spoken her name — called it pretty,
laughed over it.

How he must have hated me at that
moment !

When by night the frogs are croaking, kindle buta
torch's fire,
Ha, how soon they all are silent ! Thus truth
silences the liar."

^^ Look, papa, at that man fondling those
little cows I"

** Yes. He seems on good terms with
them. Fondness for animals denotes a
good kind heart. Choose your husband
by that rule, Miss Sharland."

A wild uncontrollable laugh burst from
me. It was the first sound I had made
since Mr. Leetee's mention of the name. I

laughed on, a gushing musical laugh that
borrowed its melody from I knew not
where, for my heart had no part in it.

It was like a mechanical cadence, and I
was startled at what some organ within
me was doing without my will. It ceased
with a catching sob, suddenly as it commenced.


Why do you laugh, Miss Sharland ?"
'' Pardon me, Mr. Leetee, I had no wish
to laugh just then. But the extraordinary
contradiction of your example and precept
provoked me. Some day that man yonder
may be proved a villain, a — murderer.
How about your maxim then T'
Explain — I do not understand V
Yes, I will explain. That man is Mr.
Lovering, the very person you have been
speaking of, the man Mrs. Leetee believed
guilty of leading her nurse to destruction."

'' Bless me, so it is ! What excellent
sight you have, Miss Sharland. Well,
well, that animal recommendation hardly
agrees with the tenor of our conversation,
does it ? He is coming this way."

Yes, he was coming. The man who
held my heart for ever and aye.

What a strong well-knit figure ! — what a
noble carriage ! How fair and true he
seemed in thought and deed !

What a living lie ! — what an abominable
deception ! — if Mrs. Leetee's suspicion was
correct.

Let us go in, Mary," I said.

We went.

No sooner was I inside the house than
I would have given anything to be out.
The room reminded me of my fettered
state — its four walls rendered me doubly
conscious of my own cage. I shivered.

*rare you cold, Miss Sharland'?" asked
sharp Mary.

^' Rather. I got a sudden chill by that
rick ; I was aware of it at the time."

Darkness gathered very slowly, as if
regretful to shut out the sio;ht of the
harvest fields. I felt a wild despair in my
heart as I looked at them, and not at
Mary and Mr. Leetee as they drove off. I
turned my head and listened.

The old chestnut mare was 'going along
musically ; they would soon be home. God
help me ! what had come to me ? I
desired to contend with the illusion and
defeat it. But my brain, once so sure, so
active, refused to stir or hearken to other
than the weird fancy.

Reader, I heard then, as distinctly as I
see the words my pen traces upon this
paper now, in the air, the trees, from every

blade of grass, every nodding ear of
corn, every stem of barley, the word,
'' Good-bye."

Everything that had life came and
whispered it to me. A thousand murmurs
came from the corn-fields, where the poppies
and great white daisies lay trampled
by the reapers' feet into the dry earth.

The very birds had lost all timidity.
They flew close, brushing my cheek as
they darted into the boughs of the apple-trees.


I wrung my hands in silent anguish.
I prayed to cry. Not a tear, not a sound
came. Silence was upon me — that pent-up
misery that shakes the brain and crushes
the heart, till things real and actual cease
to have any meaning.

Peggy fastening the doors roused me,
and I went in. My throat Alas dry and

burning. A clash of plums stood on the
table. I ate of them greedily.

While doing so I recollected the story
of Mr. Lovering's meanness to the poor
widow. He had carefully hidden that
failing from me, as he had done other repulsive
incidents in his life.

I would not think of the story Mr.
Leetee had told — I dare not trust myself to
think of him, my husband, if he had so
sinned.

I rose with the gleaners, and soon
after he came, shouting and ordering the
gaping fellows till everyone was in motion,
and the sun pouring down on their exposed
faces. I was numb and weak all day,
and in the afternoon he deserted the field.

John was left to drive and strusfQ^le with
the half-drunken mutinous band — the
master had gone to Danver.

Once more in the sunshine and heat
I had visitors. The ladies Lovering.

Peggy ushered them in with a great air,
and I sickened directly I caught sight of
the panting fat horses.

Poor old women ! You are cold and
silent enough now, and I will say nothing
unkind. You only did what many constantly
do : busied yourselves about others*
affairs, and left your own unattended to.

Your ignorance made you cruel, not
your hearts, and I forgive you.

Not yet, not yet
Is the red sun wholly set,
But evermore recedes.

While open still I bear
The Book of Evil Deeds."

*' Are you quite well, Miss Sharland ?" inquired
Miss Naomi, when she and her
sister were seated.

Yes, I thank you. Do I look pale ?
The heat does not suit me exactly."

Indeed. Many people complain of it.
Very often a troubled mind renders the
cheek pallid."

VOL. III. 37

I had much difficulty in keeping the
colour out of mine at that instant. The
two ladies talked of the parish, the weather,
themselves, myself, and still they did not
go.

Assuredly the pith of the matter had
not yet been reached. Hoarse cries came
in from the fields, and Miss Miriam made
an observation.

'' The harvesters appear a rougher class
than usual, this season '?"

^' I notice no difference. They are
always rebellious when Mr. Lovering is
absent."

A dead silence. I had struck a chord
that jarred.

How I wished they might go I

'^ Miss Sharland, may I ask you to say
whether you are assured of my sister s and
my own good feelings towards you ? Do

i

you consider that we are your wellwishers
?"

My astonishment was immense.

'' I have always supposed so, Miss
Naomi," I replied, when I could speak,
and I should be sorry to change my
opinion now."

Do not do it, my dear child ; pray,
pray always retain that idea. It is true,
we are indeed your friends. We are hereto
prove it to-day."

Tears ran down the wrinkled cheeks,
washing off some of the rouge, and the
thin neck was twitched by a spasm beneath
the folds of delicate net. I waited. The
old ladies looked appealingly at each other,
and the lot fell to Miss Naomi.

Miss Sharland," her voice was quivering
in a suppressed whisper, ^^if we are
wrong in our surmise, you must excuse

37—2

us, out of consideration for our motive —
regard for you. If we are correct, we feel
sure your own high principle will suggest
thankfulness for our timely warning. We
have thought for some time that our
brother was very much and unusually
interested in you. Of late, from his
manner and words, we believe it is more
than interest, in short — love. He is much
your senior, and perhaps not to everyone
very pleasant looking; but that he is
fascinating, wickedly so, there is no doubt.
And, Miss Sharland, he is cunning and
determined. We have never seen him so
charmed as when with you, and love to a
man at his time of life, is a serious matter.
You have made him your slave if you will,
and very probably the conquest is all you
care about. We hope so. To you personally
we have no objection. Miss Sharland, but ^i

there is a reason why you should be on
your guard, not alone to prevent your
name being coupled with his, but, if
necessary, your heart. William is — married."


They were both watching me vigilantly
out of their small faded eyes. I never
moved. What my love was they were
not likely to guess.

When their blood was as quick as mine,
in their youth, they had never felt one
rapid generous love-beat such as a greatheart
knows.

Poor creatures, why should I be angry ?
They meant well. But show them my
torn bleeding heart, let them look and
gape at the ruin of my life, the demolition
of all my plans and hopes I No ; so help
me God, neve7\

Locked in my own breast, the agony

might and did rage ; it should kill me ere
I let it out.

So I spoke, a word, one : '' Indeed."

And they, blind blunderers, sitting
primly in false fronts and painted cheeks,
did not know that I was like some poor
bird shot dead in the midst of its carol,
that the song was choked in my throat
for all time, my rejoicing in this life at an
end.

That was how it came — how God chose
to deal with me, how I gleaned my harvest.

Yes," said Miss Naomi, proceeding
with her narrative; ''he foolishly contracted
a marriage in his youth with a
girl of inferior rank. It was an immense
sorrow and disappointment to us, and it
has been a serious drawback to himself.
Be good enough not to mention it, Miss
Sharland. It is not known ; we took every

precaution to prevent the disgrace becoming
public. As it happens, we might have
spared ourselves the shame of relating the
circumstance to you. But we thought it
would be such a dreadful thing if he won
your affection."

"Dreadful, undoubtedly, i need not
say I am obliged by the trouble you have
taken to preserve my affections. What
an anxious life you must lead, Miss
Naomi, for fear he possesses himself of
the hearts of your friends ! Would it not
be the easier plan to proclaim his marriage
i

'* It is not worth while. You are the
only one he has shown any preference for
in the last seventeen years. We may
safely postpone the disagreeable announcement
another seventeen."

Really I I may deem myself one of

the chosen, indeed, to have been selected
for such an infamous preference, such a
degrading honour."

Miss Sharland, you are speaking of
our brother."

*' True, madam, I am. I wish I were
not, for then he might not have been
known to me, and I should have been
spared the disgrace of being loved by a
married man. Make yourselves content,
now that I know your brother's true
character, and the falsely balanced scales
in which he weighs his honour, nothing
would induce me to remember him with
any other feeling than aversion."

They went out into the sunshine, vexed,
indignant, but supported by the assurance
of having done their duty.

'' Wake ! wake !

All ye that sleep !

Pray for the dead !

Pray for the dead !
Why for the dead, who are at rest 1
Pray for the living, in whose breast
The struggle between right and wrong
Is raging terrible and strong."

I WAS left With nothing but the misery
that had come upon me to contemplate,
nothing but my own damned condition
and future to taunt and terrify me, and by
these very terrors keep madness from
seizing upon me.

If I had not been angry at the cheat
played upon me, I verily believe I should
have been an idiot before the sun set.
What was I ?

What a thing had he made me in the
sioiit of God and man !

Accursed, branded, henceforth only to
be looked at scornfully ; never more to hold
up my head fearlessly in the daylight, and
claim equal respect with my sisterhood.

Did I desire to die 1 No. I desired to
live. I would try to live, but not at
Up Holland. I must go, anywhere, it
mattered nothing ; my secret would be
company enough for me for many a day.

This then was what the universal ^'o^ood-
bye " of the previous evening meant.

The elements of mercy were struggling
to find voice, lest I should pass from my
home without any farewell.

As the necessity for going gained hold
on my understanding, my agony increased.
To leave my home, the place of rest and
shelter secured to me by my own labour —
to be again homeless, houseless, amongst
strangers — to seek again for pupils, to
trudge along streets thronged with unfamiliar
faces — to know that no one sought
or cared for me, no help forthcoming in
my hour of need.

Fierce rebellion seized upon me. Why
should I do this thing ? why make myself
an outcast ?

Because, replied cruel conscience, were
your secret known, you would be spurned.
Think what you are ! No better than —
than

Ah I I could not say that word, not
even in a whisper to myself.

To the ground my aching head was

bowed, and my sobs racked my body,
until from sheer inability to cry any more
I became quiet. Those tears did me good.
I was cooler, mentally stronger, though my
legs tottered under me.

It was almost dark when I heard the
gate in the orchard click, and for the first
time my pulse did not quicken. I waited,
but not with smiling lips and glad eyes as
of yore. I wished he would stay away.
My love was dead.

He came into the room, up to where
I sat, and I gave him no greeting. I
looked at him, laid up a store for the
time when I should famish for a sight of
the face that had worked my destruction.
I knew it was for the last time for many
a day, and so intent was I upon satisfying
my own greed, that I did not notice the
expression in his eyes.

He had come very close.

Grace ! Grace ! are you ill ?"

** Oh, no, no !" I answered, waving him
off. ^^ I am perfectly well. Oblige nie by
coming no nearer, Mr. Lovering."

'' Grace ! why, what T

Why ! what indeed ! You know what.
Look into my face, and learn there is but
one thing that could call forth the expression
you see in it — your treachery."

Treachery !"

*' Aye, treachery, deceit, cheating, lying,
wickedness, anything you prefer to term
it. I know all, now it is too late to profit
by the knowledge. I know that you have
wronged me cruelly, cheated me deliberately,
damned me without any remorse.
Taken advantage of the great love that
disarmed suspicion, that blinded my eyes
to your hypocrisy. Your sisters have

been here to warn me against encouraging
you, as you were — married. Is it not
comical telling a wife to beware of her
husband ? Now I understand why I was
to keep my marriage a secret. It was not
to smoothe matters for myself, it was simply
to enable you to carry out your dishonourable
intentions — give you time to nurse
your fiendish plans. I have been a cat's-paw,
you have made me a scapegoat, and
I must suffer as only a betrayed woman
can suffer. But wait a little — I am no
visionary, no spiritualist, yet I see. See
that between you and all happiness, peace,
rest, in life and in death, I and my wrong
shall stand. I curse you, as your sin has
cursed me. There is a God, a Judge, an omnipotent
arbitrator who grants awards. He
will give me mine, He ivill not suffer
my head to go dishonoured to the grave."

I

I was inspired wifcli courage, hope, as I
thought of everyone's Friend, impartial
alike to saint or sinner.

I gained new strength as I spoke, and I
saw the man for whom I had forgotten
my God tremble before me.

His evident anguish I rather enjoyed : it
was but just he should suffer something
when I suffered so much. Bad he was,
that I had proved, but he loved me. Very
likely he had no other genuine feeling,
such men only make slaves of themselves
once. His agony, as I read it on his
ghastly countenance, was by no means of a
mild order. His punishment would be
severe.

It is said a woman's heart is tender,
her resolution shaken easily.

That is a mistake ; the woman capable
of deep love is equally capable of intense

hate. I would not have shortened one
pang, if I could.

My determination gained force as I
looked at him. Probably my courage
gleamed in my eyes ; for once I felt he was
not m}^ master. My intellect subdued
him — he was not even my equal.

He knew, and saw this. No attempt
did he make to revive my love ; he knew
me well enough to feel that he had lost
all power over me.

^^ Did you tell them their good intentions
were too late ?"

*' No. I still retain for myself the
respect you have abused."

'^ Then you are not going to expose my
sin, make a fuss V

*' Oh dear no ! I should gain nothing
by publicity. I have not even a relation
who would horsewhip you. Law would

give me nothing, only authorise the world
to put a cross upon me. I know my
position : there is no justice, no redress, for
such as I. The trap you set was cleverly
contrived, Mr. Levering ; I have no one
to blame but myself for being caught.
You and I can have but two feelings in
common, henceforth — silence and hate. I
swear I will never divulge your infamy,
for by so doing I should expose my own
blasted fame. Soli are safe, quite safe."

^' Safe I I distrust your calmness, your
self-imposed secrecy. Your sarcasm is
more cutting than words. What are you
going to do, Grace ?"

'' Nothing."

'' Yes you are. Some plan is decided
upon — I have a right to know."

I dispute that right. We are
strangers."

VOL. in. 38

'' Strangers ! Pool, pooh ! we can never
be that."

'^ We can, we shalL"
Now you talk nonsense. When we
meet we must for decency's sake speak."
We shall not meet."
He started. My intentions crossed his
mind ; but he refused to understand, and
decked his white lips with a smile.

Perhaps you are thinking of going
away V
'' I am*'

'' For three weeks V
Quite three weeks."
'' Might you extend those weeks into
months V
'' I might."

My tone betrayed me. His hands
caught mine, his livid, horrified face was
bent over me.

I was but a little thing beside him, and
for a second my courage failed. He was
mad, as men. sometimes are. I was his
dearest (then, at all events), and he had
never been thwarted.

To those who know what such strong
passionate men are, it will not seem unlikely
that for a passing moment my life
was in peril. Under other circumstances
I might have been afraid ; as it was, I
valued my existence so little that I made
no sign beyond a smile.

My body was in his power, but my soul
released would go to its Giver. I defied him.
He flung my hands away and shuddered.

^' You need not speak ; I have read your
thoughts. It is your heart I covet, your
love freely given, and that you deny me.
Are you going to leave me, Grace T

'^ Yes."

38—2

How long r

'^ For ever."

He made no sound, but I heard his
gasping breath.

'' You will change your mind, Grace V

^' No."

'* Will you try to change it '?"

'^ Not upon any account."

'' Then you are glad to go V

I am."

You prefer being alone, unloved, uncared
for, amongst strangers, to remaining
with me, and finding peace and safety in
my love ?"

^^ I prefer all that, hard work and
poverty as well, rather than live an unlawful
life. What is it you would make me ? —
your mistress ! You word and won me
for your wife ; I cannot forget that."

*you are my wife, and but for those

prating women would have been happy
enough as such. She, that other, was
no Avise to me. My crime was no greater
than any other man's ; but I was young,
sympathetic in those days, and made hera
reparation she neither varied nor expected.
I was a virtuous young fool — I
gave my name, my liberty, in lieu of a
twenty-pound note. So much for honour.
I am now rewarded for having had too
much of that commodity by losing what I
love better than my life — you ; by being
left to drag through my remaining days
void of love and companionship, coupled
to the tormenting reflection that the
woman I worship believes me a brute, a
villain, and hates me. A man has gone
mad with not half so good a reason, or
blown his brains out. But my Grace, my
wife has mercy ? — she will stay ?"

He kissed my lips, my brow, my eyes.
My silence deceived him ; he thought his
pleading had been successful.

I disengaged myself promptly.

'^ She will not stay. The mind and life
you allude to are not hers to take care of.
Mr. Lovering, understand me — lam goings

He looked stunned ; for a second his
pride and rage checked his speech ; then
he said :

'^ Grace, stay ! I will do anything if
you will only stay with me !"

His arms were outstretched, his face —
I see it in my dreams — so full of longing,
so earnest in its pleading !

Prudence warned me to go. I went.
When we meet, I know that look will be
in his face ; and I, what shall I be to him
in heaven ?

He had gone. Everything was still.

Enough wind, that meanest loud

Grief too sad for song ;
Wild wind, when sullen cloud

Knells all the night long ;
Sad storm, whose tears are vain ;
Bare woods, whose branches stain :
Deep caves and dreary main,

Wail, for the world's wrong !"

I KNEW Peggy would be alone in the
kitchen. I found her putting patches on
one of John's jackets with the door into the
yard wide open. I shut it.

Are we alone, Peggy '?"

'eyes, Miss Grace. The Lord is

the only one who will hear what we
say."

She bent nearer the candle, and burnt
the end of the cotton in the flame to facilitate
the process of threading.

It was a good old face, wrinkled and
browned, like a russet apple, the grey
hair drawn back under the big white cap;
but there was abundance of life in it yet.
Peggy was a wiry, hale woman, w4io would
keep going to the last.

I stood looking at her — at the clean
roomy kitchen, with its old clock and rows
of bright tins — the wide windows, with
their blue - and - white - checked curtains
looped back, and the moonlight streaming
in on the scrubbed boards.

When should I see it again, when
should I have another home ? I was not
fit to make one at any fireside ; not equal

to the untaught, honest serving woman,
patching her good man's sleeves. What
had my talent done for me ?

Made me conspicuous, perhaps rather
peculiar and attractive, and enticed someone
to covet what they had no right to
possess. It mattered nothing now where
I was going ; my voice and music might
help me to win some sort of a living,
but all ambition, all pride in myself, was
gone.

I sat down at the other side of the table,
the tallow candle between us. It reminded
me of the clays when I lived with my
father in Holland village, and sometimes
had a talk with Peggy and John in the
kitchen, and wrote their letters for them,
or tried to teach John to read, and slapped
his horny hand. How kind these simple
folks had been to me ; how true ! If they

only knew what I was, how it would hurt
and embitter their hearts.

They must not know.

<< Peggy, I am going away. If I like
the place I shall very probably take up
my abode there. Danver, you know,
Peggy, is not a large place, and I want to
gain a better connection and more money.
I shall not be young always, and it is
necessary that I should at least try to
make some provision for old age."

The woman looked at me in a startled,
distressed manner.

'^ Never, surely, Miss Grace! We thought
maybe you would stay for always by us.
We shall be but too poor simpletons without
you. Well, well !"

You must not take it to heart, Peggy ;
if I am ill, or in trouble, I will send to you.
Things can go on as usual. Mr. Lovering

is not flitting, and John is his right-hand
man. I may come back any day."

*' To be sure ; and your bed shall always
be aired, and the sitting-room in order.
When are you going, Miss Grace T'

'^ It is advisable that I should ^o at once,
and I have a plan in my mind. John is
so busy with the harvest that he cannot be
spared to drive me to the station during
the day, in the yellow cart, and I hardly
fancy Joe doing it. So it would be better
for me to go early in the morning, before
they commence working. Don't interrupt
me, Peggy — I am decided upon going.
There is an express that stops at Danver,
at half-past five ; we can catch that. I
will go and prepare, and you waken John
in good time."

I hurried away. I allowed her no time
to speak. Poor soul I the big tears rolling

down the livid cheeks, the trembling hand
lifted in horror, affected me deeply. A
scene I must avoid ; my strength had
been 'sorely taxed, and I needed all to
carry me through. Neither of us went to
bed that night. There was much to be
done.

At a quarter to five Peggy gave me
some breakfast.

Miss Grace, forgive me ; but are — are
you going to be married V

Had she asked me that question a week
before I should have blushed. Now the
horror of my situation threw genuine indignation
and earnestness into voice and
expression as I made the denial.

'' No, Peggy ; I am not. I shall oiever
marry. By the way, when you see Mr.
Hovering, give him that."

I placed in her hand a sealed package.

containing the money he had given me
when I believed myself entitled to it.

The drive to the station was silent. Not
because my companion was a servant. I
inherited from my mother the knack of
making myself pleasant to people of any
rank, without tempting them to forget
their station. But my heart was heavy.
John cried openly like any child, and the
sleepy porters stared at our parting.

I had the carriage to myself, and plenty
of time to collect my ideas and form my
plans. My money was but little ; employment
I mast procure directly, or speedily
become a prey to poverty in a strange
city.

London was reached before twelve, and
I went to a near hotel, Adhere I had some
refreshment, and left my luggage. Then
I sought lodgings, and found them in a

quiet little street behind a square. They
were clean rooms, poorly furnished, but I
liked the woman — a fat, motherly creature.
She had been for many years cook in Lord
Harrington's family, her husband butler.

He went out as waiter. There were no
children ; the house was very tiny, but
perfectly clean. The woman was hardworking
and neat ; the man polite and
sober-looking. I thought Mr. and Mrs.
Stubbs a very nice couple ; and when they
reappeared from the kitchen, and said they
would take me, I was well pleased.

To get my luggage Alas the next duty,
and having seen that safely stowed in the
bedroom, I told Mrs. Stubbs I should not
return before tea-time.

By then she smilingly told me the cupboard
and drawers upstairs would be
emptied and the bed made up.

My next quest was to find some means
of earning money. I did not care to teach
if I could help it. My desire was to procure
engagements to play at parties, either
piano or violin.

Ah me ! I think I am lonelier here ;
It is hard to go, but harder to stay !"

Into Regent Street I hastened, and
entered a noted music-shop. My request
I made in the clearest manner and was in
no wise disconcerted by the stare the
fashionable young showman bestowed upon
me.

I was in earnest, reader, real earnest,
and despair gives courage. If I allowed myself
to sink with timidity ; I should soon be
penniless, and what then ?

While Mr. Curls and Waxed Moustache
was conferring with another man
behind a glass case, I caught sight of my
own reflection in a mirror.

E-egent Street did not often see such an
object. My dress lacked what is termed
style and hung round my tired limbs in
beauties folds.

My face, what with trouble and the
long journey, had a fixed eagerness gleaming
out of its deadly whiteness that
startled even me.

My first questioner returned accompanied
by another older and better mannered.

'you require engagements to play at
parties, madam ?"

*' Yes, or pupils."

'what do you play r

Piano and violin. I also sing."

He smiled.

VOL. III. 39

^' We do recommend teachers, but they
are obliged to be first-rate musicians ; and
for parties they must also be good even
players and accustomed to the fatigue."

'^ Yes, I know. I have taught before,
but not in London. Since I bring no
references there is nothing for it but for
you to test my capabilities. I don't expect
you to recommend me upon no better
authority than my own word."

I advanced to a piano and opened it. I
played a variety of music, and then I sang.
The men stood in silence, and I saw surprise
on their faces.

^^ Can you lend me a violin T*

They brought me one. As I drew the
bow across its strings I thought of my
deserted home, wherein I had raised
sounds born of love, and which would
know them no more.

I forgot the shop, the men, my lonely
; I played to an invisible being — I let
my misery, my passionate love have its
way.

When I stopped my listeners were loud
in their praise. Two more had been added
to the number.

Oh, yes ; they would recommend me, in
fact, give me an engagement to play with
Madam Marnet the following evening at
Mrs. Shultz's, in Gordon Square.

I had better call upon madame, to whom
they gave me a letter of introduction.

My name and address was entered in
their books. 'mrs. Sharland."

I was bowed out most politely, and in a
state of great rejoicing I went to several
other music-sellers, and acted similarly.
It was hot and dusty ; I felt suffocated,
and longed for the country.

39—2

Upon inquiring where Marion Place
was, I discovered that it was a long way
off, so went in an omnibus.

I arrived at the house. A plate on the
door announced that Monsieur Marnet
taught French, German and Italian, and
prepared pupils for examinations. It
made no mention of Madame Marnet.

I had never been inside a professional
house before. I gasped for breath. The
closeness of the dismal dirty house nearly
suffocated me.

The room into which I was shown was.
neat ; but no calculation of mine could
decide when it had last been cleaned.

From some other apartment came the
shrill screaming voice of monsieur giving
a lesson. A vibration in the room caused
me to turn.

Madame had entered

It is ungenerous to ridicule a friend, a
worthy person, least of all a woman. I
will content myself by saying that Madame
Marnet was the most inordinately stout
person I had ever seen.

The impression she made upon me was
peculiar. I was for a few seconds reduced
to a state of suppressed nervousness that
gave me positive suffering. The cause
thereof was this.

Her fat was under no restraint : it hung
in flaps, lumps in every visible place, and
gave to her appearance a heaving, swelling
motion, that to my unaccustomed eye
threatened damage, if not destruction, as
she neared the various articles of furniture.
She balanced herself against the
table to read the note I handed her.

Presently she turned and held out a
beautifully formed hand.

'' I am happy to make your acquaintance,
Mrs. Sharland. You are mentioned
in very complimentary terms, and anyone
embracing my art is to me as a sister."

I made an appropriate reply, and begged
to see the list of music selected for that
evening. It was nearly all known to me,
the only stranger a waltz.

** Are you a widow, Mrs. Sharland ?"

*' Yes, a recent one. I have never been
out before perhaps you will tell me what
we are expected to do, Madame Marnet V

"With pleasure, my dear. I have been
running about into first one grand house,
and then another, for some thirty-five
years, and know them all well. We are
engaged to amuse the company — we are of
no consequence. They give us supper, and
perhaps a glass of wine during the evening.
When any lady or gentleman wishes to

display their musical proficiency, we are
permitted to listen, and at such times I
often wish I were deaf. My niece used to
accompany me, but she has married, and
I am really glad to meet with you, dear.
You are not unlike Katie. The house weare
going to tomorrow evening is a
German one, and the class of people more
intelligent. I will call for you at nine
o'clock, and be sure you put a spare string
in your violin-case by way of precaution."

The good lady would have talked on ;
but I was tired and faint, so I bade her
adieu till the time appointed.

Very well pleased with my afternoon's
work, I reached Moss Street, and Mrs.
Stubbs gave me some tea.

Afterwards I unpacked, and tried on the
white lace cap I had bought on my way
home. Widows should wear caps. I

looked well in them, and when dressed
I was reminded of that night at the
Manor when I acted the widow.

It seemed years since I left Up Holland.
My life was changed, and I wanted to
forget. Ah ! what queer forgetfulness ;
how I suffered that night in the small bare
bed-room !

The squeals of the cats gathered on the
tiles of the neighbouring houses nearly
distracted mo.

Was it a dream ? Was it true that I
was disgraced, and alone in the hard
world ? My wedding ring clashed against
the wall as I threw my hand out of bed
in agony. Yes, it was true. That thread
of gold was my only link with the past. I
should never again waken to see the
brown lined face sleeping on the pillow
beside me — never again.

What I suffered ! I watched the cold
dawn creeping round, I stifled the moans
that rose to my parched lips, and strove to
be strong. On I must go, finding no
resting-place for the soles of my feet,
seeking" no love, making" no friends.

I was no wife. Cunning said, '' Pretend
you are ; false widowhood is your only
chance." I took it, and the lie once in my
mouth, grew there. Mrs. Stubbs was
sympathetic and curious.

My tale was simple. My husband had
died abroad soon after our marriage, and I
was left unprovided for.

The hard misery that had stolen into
my face made far more impression than
my words. To have doubted that I was
in sorrow would have been impossible ; I
looked the widow to perfection.

Sorrow there is of many kinds, but no

I

sorrow like unto mine ; no trouble so
heavy as one that cannot be told. It
was like a strong hand : it held me, crushed
me, wrung all the feeling out of my heart,
and I became something less than human. J|
I was afraid of myself May you never
know that feeling, reader !

Do not imagine it foretells insanity —
mine did not. It means this — what we
should all be deprived of, hope and love.
Very few know what that is, how it
makes you feeL I do. As I toiled and
worked, I was no woman. I had no
sympathy or feeling for any other being,
or for myself.

When I saw a funeral, I felt inclined to
laugh. A child shivering in rags at a
street corner roused wonderment in my
breast, not pity. All the dangers that
assail life glanced off me. The world tome

Alas an amusing, wicked, wonderful
place, since I had nothing in it but a box
of clothes and a violin.

My body I set no price upon : it had no
heart in it. I had but one interest — my
profession.

Fortunately, the Stubble did not object
to music, and I could practise as much as
I liked.

Gallant, graceful, gentle, tall,
Fairest, noblest, best of all."

True to her promise, Madame Marnet
came, and we together repaired to the
mansion in Gordon Square.

Madame Marnet was known to the
Stubbses^ Stubbs frequently waiting at
houses where she played. .m

We were received by two footmen, who
were to my mind very polite, considering
our errand. One at length said something
to Madame Marnet, who replied in a good-natured
manner.

Oh, dear no ! We are Mrs. Sharland
and Madame Marnet, the musicians."

Then to me, with a smothered laugh :

'^ It must be your appearance. They
took us for guests ; we have had a narrow
escape of cutting a ridiculous figure."

After this, I held my violin in a conspicuous
position. We were early ; few
people had arrived. Our place was by the
piano.

Miss Shultz came up first and greeted
Madame Marnet with the easy good-manners
few English can command when
addressing those they consider their inferiors.
She was a pretty, plump, fair girl,
and her fond papa called her his '' Lily."

Madame Marnet introduced me, and
mentioned that I played the violin.
Some years ago it was not very generally
known amongst ladies.

Mrs. Shultz came up.

A strange excitement took possession of
me — the feeling I had experienced when a
child, when I used to go to brilliant balls,
in imagination, or see new lands and sunlit
seas, while I listened to my father's
music.

My fingers wandered to my violin, as
the means of giving vent to my feelings,
and Madame Marnet requested me to play.
The company were quickly arriving. Her
object was a good one ; she wished me to
be heard by Mr. Shultz and some other
judges of music, who were conversing in
the next room. I played, and played the
room full. They came flocking in, in haste
and eagerness. I stopped. My hand was
shaken warmly. These germans were
genuinely pleased, and granted me praise
readily. Who had I learnt from ? They

mentioned several celebrated names that I
had never even heard of.

I could only reply that my father had
taught me. Fearing further inquiry, I
freed myself from their well-meant curiosity
by a coldness of manner and evident
dislike to interrogation that proved more
than effectual.

They left us. Madame Marnet now
commenced :

"Why do you give them the cold
shoulder ? They would like to befriend
you. In this house ability ranks higher
than money or birth. You should not
throw friends away, my dear."

I know it ; but I prefer not speaking
of myself. I will play and sing for their
money's worth, and more ; but they must
leave my personal affairs alone. I decline
to be communicative to anyone'"

^' I understand, Mrs. Sharland. Your
face is full of a story that would tickle the
ears of the world, and make you famous,
or I am mistaken. But you will never tell
it. Very likely your determination is a
wise one, and Louisa Marnet will never
try to shake it."

I made no reply. I must be credited
with some sort of history.

Young women are not suddenly driven
to seeking their living without first having
stepped on a thorn. A false statement
would make no impression upon me ; but
the trill — the bitter deception that had
been practised upon me — if that got banded
abroad, I should die of shame and rage.

I held my tongue. I neither contradicted
nor affirmed, and I trusted to
Providence in guiding the world to make
a history for me out of the decentest

i

J

materials ever used in that charitable
occupation. I only dreaded the truth.

Towards the middle of the evening I
got a genuine fright. I thought I saw
the lovely " Clem " waltzing on the arm of
a fat officer, and for a second my fingers
trembled. In a couple of moments the
danger was dispelled by a nearer view,
whereupon I discovered that it was only
another tall young person, with painted
eyes and dyed hair. I judged it to be an
enjoyable party: animated faces and sparkling
eyes constantly met mine. Had I
dared I would have uttered a warning ;
told the silly girls that not one man in
twenty meant what he said. It amused
them to see the timid, hopeful look that
proclaimed their success, that was all —
they cared nothing. The sooner a girl is
made acquainted with this fact the better.

VOL. III. 40

Experience is certain to teach it ere long.
Be cautious ; distrust what a man says.
The more tenderly it is worded, the more
pathetically uttered only renders it all the
more certain it has been rehearsed many a
time before.

It was getting light when Madame Marnet
and I stepped into the square. The
fresh morning air smelt wondrously sweet.
We were both very tired. I thought how
the sun would be rising over the cornfields
at home, the cocks crowing, the sheep
bleating.

I was alone, indeed, in that vast city,
with only a few sparrows twittering on a
house-top. I scarcely needed madame's
expression of satisfaction at my performance,
and hope that I would continue to
accompany her.

I am growing old, Mrs. Sharland, and

my connection is good. Nothing would
please me better than to leave it in your
hands."

I started.

** Impossible, Madame Marnet ; I have
no money to buy anyone's connection. I
must make as I go on."

"You misunderstand me. Money is
not needed. It is merely an introduction
to my friends and patrons, and your name
placed after mine in Messrs. Quavers'
books. If you accompany me, gradually
you can slide into my place."

I thanked her warmly, and agreed.

A cab coming past at that moment
stopped our conversation. Madame got into
it. I declined, Moss Street being so near.

40—2

Let us seek out some desolate shade, and there
weep our sad bosoms empty."

The Stubble were asleep — worthy couple,
when I entered. I had a latch-key. I
went to bed, and slept until ten o'clock.
Then I awoke to find Mrs. Stubbs at my
bedside with the breakfast-tray. I appreciated
her goodness, though I was incapable
of showing it. My gratitude, like
my affection, was dead.

During the day, having no settled employment,
I took to considering how I

could make more money. My engagements
would not be for every night.
What should I do with my leisure ones ?
Teach ? No ; my patience was worn out.
I had done that in happier days, when I
knew someone watched for me, and was
proud of my success. Now, no one took
heed whether I feasted or fasted. I
would do something that by reason of its
strangeness could invoke no past recollections.


My heart was too sore to stand much.
In spite of all my efforts, there were times
when I cried deep in my heart bitter tears
for my husband ; when I would have given
all I possessed to creep into his arms once
more.

Thank God, those periods of weakness
were not frequent, and after them I despised
myself I ought to be thankful for

my escape from a sinful course. I was
thankful.

I sat all day long in the tiny parlour,
listening to the street sounds. I might
have gone to one of the parks, and filled
my lungs with pure air. I might have
walked in the fashionable thoroughfares.
I did neither. I sat on, thinking of some
new road to money and release from my
own thoughts.

As I sat a voice reached me through
the open window, a woman's voice, shrill,
discordant, singing a popular ditty in the
square.

An idea shot through my brain, my
cheek coloured. Why should not I sing
and play the violin ?

There was nothing to prevent me but
my pride. And what right had such as /
with pride ?

Very likely the woman singing there,
whose voice was unpleasant to my educated
ear, had a husband she could call her own.
I would try it.

Putting on my bonnet, I walked out and
sought until I found a hairdressers of
moderate pretensions. Inside I went, and
asked the price of a piece of matted light
hair in the window. The man replied
*^ fifteen shillings." I offered him ten,
and he took it.

My next search was for an optician's.
There I bought a pair of blue spectacles.
Content with my disguise, I returned, resolved
to try the effect of it that evening.

At first I was undecided whether I
should tell Mrs. Stubbs of my queer determination
or try to keep it secret. Second
thoughts urged me to tell, for if by chance
they saw me coming in or going out, they

would naturally be both surprised and distrustful
in future.

I told. Mrs. Stubbs burst into a hearty
laugh.

You going to turn street singer, Mrs.
Sharland ?"

'' I think so. I shall disguise myself
completely ; and on a fine night, if not
engaged, shall play and sing for an hour
or two in the squares. I need more
money, Mrs. Stubbs, and that is a perfectly
honest way of obtaining it, if rather
peculiar."

Just so. I should . not wonder if you
make good money by it neither — you have
a wonderful voice. Stubbs was telling me
how you was praised."

Praise of myself was a distasteful theme.
To please those we love one may do anything,
but to take an interest in one's own

success is impossible, unless by such means
the necessaries of life are procured. That
very night I began my new profession.


When I had oft the disoTiise on I did
not know myself. Stubbs offered to go
with me, in case I should be frightened or
annoyed. I declined, deeming it best to
accustom myself to no assistance that
might at any time be withdrawn. I was
distrustful of anything now. Once I had
been too confiding, too unsuspicious.

I had innocently let my joy be seen, my
love for one man I foolishly thought no
sin. I estimated him by myself. And
how had I been rewarded for so believing
and loving" ?

I had been deliberately deceived, and
ruthlessly set outside the pale of honesty.
Not any human being fate might cast in

my path that night could be more degraded
than I.

I looked in the glass. My teeth
gleamed between my lips, my eyes
glittered as if with wine. I felt the mad
uncontrollable laughter surging to my lips ;
that utter recklessness of self was upon
me.

Was I going mad ? Had the duty I
had imposed upon myself been too severe I
Judge of my misery when I say that madness
had even no terror for me, rather a
charm.

Once mad, recollections could not sting
me, memory no longer make a slave of me.
No ; insanity was too respectable for such
as I — it was only Satan standing behind me
and whispering :

'' Go back, go to him. He is wandering
in the meadows now, his eyes

are dim with unshed tears, his courage,
his spirit is broken. Think how he would
welcome you, how you could nestle in
his strong arms, and cease trembling forever."


A moment given to such tempting, a
moment in which all that was womanly in
me was torn and harrowed, and then my
love burst its fetters, and cried aloud with
too great bitterness to form words.

It was a moan that, wrung out of my
broken heart, astonished my yet sound
mind. I jumped up. I had sunk huddled
in my wretchedness by some article of
furniture. I was ashamed of my weakness
; mentally I apologised to my pride.

At the foot of the stairs I encountered
Mrs. Stubbs, her usually ruddy complexion
a dull grey.

Mrs. Sharland, did you hear that cry?"

^^ I do not recollect any strange sound,
Mrs. Stubbs. You must have heard some
street cry."

I did nothing of the kind. No cry
ever made in a street can curdle my blood
as that did. I dare not be alone ; I'll
knock on the wall for Mrs, O'Neil to come
in."

I left her hammering on the wall with
a candlestick, and went out. I profited
by the lesson.

If I permitted my feelings to break lose,
my secret would soon be discovered. I
uttered no second cry.

*' AYhat right have you, passer by the way, to
call any flower a weed 1 Do you know its merits 1
its virtues ? its healing qualities 1 Because a thing
is common, shall you despise it? If so, you might
despise the sunshine for the same reason."

I HURRIED on till I came to a square, then
I stopped and sang an Irish song. A
crowd gathered. Windows were opened,
and what I supposed to be bits of paper
flew out.

You're new at your trade, you are.
Why don't you pick up your money V

This remark attracted my notice, and I

gathered all I could now see — one. The
crowd had kindly saved me the exertion
of stooping. This screw of jDaper contained
sixpence. I moved on, playing my violin,
and singing alternately.

At ten I went home. I counted my
earnings. Nine shillings and fourpence.
I was satisfied. I determined to employ
my spare time in this manner.

Very soon I got used to it, and was nota
little gratified to find I was welcome. I
made circuits, and sang in all the principal
localities.

In the rich neighbourhoods my takings
were large. I picked my time, when
dinner was over, and drew the fashionable
ladies and gentlemen to the balconies and
windows, the servants to the door and area
railings.

I had some adventures and annoyances

a proposal from a noted music-hall
proprietor, that I should sing there twice
a week. The sum he offered was large.

But no amount of money could have
induced me to forget what was due to
myself and my relations. This is difficult
to explain ; and those who have no nobility
will probably sneer at the notion.

It was a feeling that had grown with
me, and influenced my life. It had more
power over me than religion or scruples
of sex. It had never found utterance ; no
boast had I ever made of my connections.
And yet the knowledge that I was well
born stood like a guard between me and
all commonalty.

I saw no disgrace in standing and
singing. I spoke to no one, I asked no
charity, I did not even thank for what
I got. I did not know the givers, they

did not know the receiver. I was spared
the humiliation of being under an obligation.


I drew my shawl closer and walked on.
The evenings were growing cold. Soon I
left my admirers behind, and stopped to
consider where I was. I did not know
the street ; it was quiet, the houses spacious.
One had the door open, and displayed
many lights. I advanced, and read on the
lamp — club.

I turned to go, and narrowly escaped
being knocked down by a cab that dashed
up. It contained two gentlemen, Mr.
Hastings, and — my husband. I had
presence of mind to turn my head away ;
as it was, he touched me as he jumped out.

Standing there stunned, I heard again
the tones of a man who had proposed tome,
rather differently tuned, as he paid



cabby. Poor Mr. Hastings ! had he known,
he mio^ht not have hag^oied over sixpence.


Another second, and they were gone.

Now there came upon me the unreasonableness
of a woman. I wanted to see the
man T had striven with might and main to
avoid.

My feet refused to move ; I became
stationary on the pavement, and watched
as in a dream waiters passing along the
hall. I would have given three years of
my life to have changed places with one of
those men, and entered the room where he
was. It was on the left hand side of the
door, and he sat with his back to the
window. I watched every turn of the
head, with its tossed curls, every impetuous
twist of the broad shoulders.

I remembered how, sitting opposite to

VOL. in. 41

him many an evening, I had seen the wit
and laughter in his expressive face, and
hidden the love I feared was in mine.
Now I was outside, and could not see his
face or guess his humour.

But I would, I iDOuld. A moment to
recover my composure, and I commenced
to sing a song then raging in London.
I dared not venture upc»n one I had ever
sung at Up Holland. I did not know how
often he had stood in the garden, and I
knew the good memory he possessed.

Here, as elsewhere, the gift bestowed
upon me pleased and attracted. Money
rattled on the stones, I picked none up.

I saw the startled eyes striving to
fathom my disguise, the perplexed face. '

Suddenly I missed him. He was
coming out. He would set doubt at
rest.

I fled up the quiet street, and crouched
behind a pillar in a doorway. He came,
quicker than I supposed he could. Baffled,
angry, he stopped where I lay hidden.

'^ What a fool I am to be so deceived.
Yet I could have sworn it was her. No
other woman's voice ever moved me like
that — I doubt if there is such another.
But my Grace would not have run away
from me ! Ah, Grace ! Grace !"

He retraced his steps slowly ; and I —
shall I confess it to you, reader, who
probably are sitting so that you can see
your husband's face behind his paper ? — I
laid my throbbing head down on the cold
stone, and cried for joy that he had not
forgotten me. I don't know how long
I lay there ; when I got up, weak and numb,
and tottered down the street, the club
door was shut.

41—2

I found a cab, and asked the ma-n the
name of the street. He told me. Into
that street I must never go again ; indeed,
for the present not into any. I hid myself
for the next few days, going out only
in a cab.

I was ill, strangely nervous and weak.
I consulted a doctor. He told me I had
received a severe shock, but that nature
had set about the cure herself The worst
was over. I bought a paper while walking
till I met a cab.

It was the Times and I very improperly
commenced reading it as I strolled on. I
unconsciously lapsed into a habit acquired
when at Up Holland.

Many a morning I had made myself
acquainted with the news while I trudged
onwards. I did not open it, I read as it
was folded.

The first thing that caught my eye was
an immense '^ Grace."

I knew I was the ^' Grace " therein
named. Terror again seized me, and I
might have been reduced to dire necessity,
had not a rickety fly come along. I
hailed it. When shut up in it, I turned
to the startling '^ Grace," and read :

*' Grace is earnestly entreated to communicate
with her husband, who believes

he saw her in Street on Tuesday

evening. — W. L."

Wrong or right, I made no attempt to
communicate with him ; I shut myself upas
if I were in fear of my life. And yet
for my life I cared not a fig. But I did
for my honour, and I own that with that
harsh face before me, softened and beautified

by the love I inspired, my sense of
even that became confused.

When my self-imposed imprisonment
was nearly intolerable, Madame Marnet
appeared upon the scene.

I welcomed madame — her fine person
quite filled my tiny parlour, and the cab-horse
hung its head dejectedly, and panted
for breath.

I waited for her to speak ; I wondered
what had brought her to me in such
haste.

^' Mrs. Sharland, have you ever heard of
Lady Fane's charity V

"Never."

'' You astonish me. But in a few
moments I can tell you all that is
necessary to enable you to decide whether
you will accept her offer. Lady Fane is a
very charming and good woman. I have

taught her nieces, the Earl of Hamilton's
daughters, all the music they know, and
very proud of them I am. Lady Fane
had only one child, a daughter, who died
two years since. When it became a certainty
that the poor girl could not live,
having some complaint that gradually
Weakened both body and mind, her
mother devoted a large sum of money in
her child's name to a charity, and this is
the charity : a home for ladies who,
through age or delicacy are rendered unfit
for labour. They are established in a
neat row of cottages at Chislehurst, near
Lady Fane's home. Now, Mrs. Sharland,
I come to the point that connects us with
this excellent charity — a triplet of concerts.
Lady Fane proposes to give in the
village schoolroom three good concerts, to
attend which all the inhabitants are invited

at a very low rate of charge. The
selected professionals are Madame Marnet,

Mrs. Sharland, Mr. S-and Mr. E .

The terms are liberal, and we are Lady-fane's
guests for the week. Will you
accept ?"

I reflected for a short time, long enough
to decide that I had never heard Mr.
Lovering name any friends at Chislehurst
indeed, anywhere out of his own county.
Also, that I should be safer in Chislehurst
than London for the present.

I accepted, and inquired when we were
to go.

'^ Next week, and I must run to my
dressmaker at once, for I cannot go to
Lady Fane's shabby."

This opened to my mind a new line of
reflection, and I resolved to make no
difficulties ; however, I was put about for

the toilette. Like most other things, the
dress became a less serious matter the
more I thought about it. I had the conviction
that I should '' do."

^" I greet you well, ye noble lords ;
Fair dames, my homage setting !"

We puffed out of Charing Cross station at
a quarter to ten on the Monday morning.
Madame Marnet had worked herself into
a state of breathlessness that imposed
silence upon her, and I was not sorry.

^' I feel tired," murmured the good lady
presently. ^^ I have been busy arranging
for Adolph's comfort. He will have a few
friends while I am away."

I made no reply. I recollected hideous

little fat Adolph, and felt not the least
doubt about him having friends of both
sexes, and various grades, during his excellent
wife's absence.

Sooner than I expected we reached
Chislehurst. A carriage awaited us. The
sight of it reminded me of the only-carriage
I had ever ridden in, and the
owner of it.

The station was a long Away from Chislehurst
village. The common, with its surrounding
old-fashioned houses and shops,
stood high, and caught every breeze.

I inhaled the air gratefully ; the sight of
the trees and woods moved me like a
child : my eyes filled with tears. I was so
glad to be in the country once more ; I
knew now that the perpetual sight of bricks
and mortar hurt me.

Madame Marnet noticed my tears.

^' I understand," said she, patting my
hand kindly ; " when you were happy you
lived in the country, Mrs. Sharland 1"

'' I did."

The carriage turned down a narrow
green lane and stopped before a very old
red-stone house.

It was mossy, green, and probably damp,
but oh ! so pretty.

Courtney " had been in the Fane family
generations, handed down without any
dispute from father to son.

The present owner had possessed it from
almost babyhood, living there with his
mother and sisters all his life, and in turn
bringing home a wife to it. Of this
marriage there were two sons. Then
came a death, and a time of sorrow,
followed by rejoicing, for Lord Fane married
again, a most attractive lady, considerably

younger than himself. No wife
was more fondly or deservedly loved than
Helen, Lady Fane.

Two years after this marriage a daughter
was born — a door suffering child, for whom
nothing could be done. Gradually the
disease gained ground, and grew as she
grew, till at last, so long had she suffered,
so patiently had they watched and hoped
only to be deceived, that when death did
come, he was welcome.

Lady Fane was a woman of sense and
courage, but her anguish was none the
less keen, and though, only forty, her hair
was snow white.

In the thickly-carpeted hall she stood,
a large hound by her side, a most winning
woman. A white lace cap was pinned
on the well-shaped head, and rested on
the blanched hair, as one only sees it

rarely. Not one woman in a hundred can
wear a cap becomingly.

Eyes and eyebrows retained their youthful
colour and brilliancy — a rich brown,
full of devotion and gentleness.

Her face when in repose was sad, nay
stern ; when she smiled, the radiance overspread
her entire countenance, and warmed
you to your heart's core.

She greeted us now, uttering welcome
and looking it. Her soft cool hand
grasped mine, with the genuine feeling of
a brave-hearted woman.

She was never ashamed of anything she
did, never at a loss to encourage others or
defend herself I liked her at once.

^' When you have your bonnets off,
come down and let us have a chat."

At the top of the stairs we were
received by a woman looking like a nurse.

The black gown, white apron and cap,
seemed very much like some hospital
garb. My eyes lingered on the dress,
on her face. It was the lovelies b I had
ever seen, even now, when some silent
pain and age combined had done their
utmost to mar it.

The fairness of her skin was dazzling;
the eyes, soft grey, were the largest, most
dreamy. But the hair — what a treasure to
any girl ! Whereas she, the owner of
it, tucked it out of sight beneath the
cap.

It was the brightest golden, glossy and
sparkling, a mass of curls and waves, that
no brushing would ever brush out.

Her fissure was tall and elegant, her
carriage good, her step noiseless and
gliding. Had I been a man, I should have
fallen in love with this woman. I walked

i

behind her entranced ; I longed to hear
her speak.

Silently she opened a door, and showed
us into a large double-bedded room, apologising
in her mistress's name for doing so ;
but so many guests were invited, that two
bedrooms could not be spared.

This if you please, madame, is a room
her ladyship thought you might like to
use."

She threw open a door of communication,
and showed us a large comfortable sitting-room,
with a piano and harp in it.

Madame Marnet murmured some reply.

I was dumb, rendered so by my disappointment.
The spell was broken ; my
siren was no siren when she opened her
mouth. Her plebeian extraction declared
itself immediately she spoke. The voice
was rough, drawl, the pronunciation

difficult and many "cornered. There was
the total absence of that mellow smoothness,
free from all extremes, that belongs
alone to those of good birth.

When she had gone, madame remarked
:

Did you notice that woman's voice,
Mrs. Sharland ? It is most discordant,
and she such a striking looking woman
too, makes it all the more pitiable, for she
can never go unnoticed."

Do what I would, I could not forget
her face, and a strong curiosity laid hold
on me to learn more of her.

Lady Fane was caressing her dog Alpine.

'' I hope you ladies will like your
room, and if you care to try any music
privately, perhaps you will find the nursery
useful."

Madame Marnet was devoted to an old

VOL. in. 42

china bowl, and consequently as deaf as a
post, worthy soul.

I answered.

'* A very elegant nursery, Lady Fane."

'^ Ah ! it is peculiar, Mrs. Sharland.
My late daughter had your rooms, and
never used any others. The nursery
devoted to the baby became the sitting-room
of the sick girl, and we never changed
the name. Nothing has been changed.
She and her faithful nurse occupied those
apartments constantly. You will find
"Rock useful, Mrs. Sharland. Let her
wait upon you and madame ; I told her
she was to do so."

^^Do you refer to the woman who
showed us to the rooms ? She is very
lovely. Lady Fane."

"You think so now — what would you
have thought years ago, I wonder ? I fell

in love with lier, Mrs. Sharland. I knew
that my poor child had an antipathy to
anyone not pleasant-looking, and I searched
for a nice-looking nurse."

^' She was your daughter s nurse, then ?'"

^^Yes. I got her from the Children's
Hospital, with a very excellent character ;
she has been with me a great many years,
and will, I trust, never leave me. She
was devoted to my child, and I can never
repay her for her ceaseless care and attention."


She is remarkable looking to a degree."


Rachel Rock is altogether a very remarkable
woman. But for her education,
which is poor, I should suppose her to be a
lady. She can read and write, that is all.
You will think me romantic when I say,
Mrs. Garlands that I have always had the

42—2

impression that my nurse is a woman
with a secret, and an important one too.
She keeps aloof from the other servants
and has not one friend in the village.
Though I have done my utmost to gain
her confidence, I have failed. She will
not speak of her home or her people, and
no one writes to her. Once I was really
vexed with her. Her beauty attracted the
notice of a lawyer who came to stay at the
rectory, and he honourably proposed for
her. He spoke to Lord Fane and to me.
Rachel was most obstinate, refused to consider
the matter, and jut herself into such
a state, that I came to the conclusion
some previous love affair had rendered her
bitters'

Liberal he was of soul, and frank of heart ;
And to his many friends — all loved him well —
Whate'er he knew or felt he would impart."

The entrance of Lord Fane interrupted the
conversation. It gladdened my heart to
see the way his young wife welcomed him.
We made no difference ; they took hold of
each other in perfect confidence and affection.


'^ Austin, where have you been ? not
riding all the time V

No, dear ; not all the time. I have
been to the village, seeing that the platform

is securely erected for your concerts,
and not likely to jeopardise the lives and
limbs of these ladies."

The white-headed old gentleman chatted
with us till time to prepare for dinner, to
which many were invited. The woman
Rock offered her assistance, and was eagerly
accepted by Madame Marnet. I despaired
of that lady's toilet ever being made, and
sat watching the maid, who cleverly altered
and re-arranged. Never before had a
woman so fascinated me as did this excuse
of Lady Fane's. I began to agree
with her ladyship : Rachel Rock had a
secret, and, to my amazement, I discovered
I was interested in her and it.

The concert was a success : we professionals
acquitted ourselves creditably, and
the audience was cheerful, well-dressed,
and appreciative. Lady Fane told us that

every seat had been secured for the two
following concerts.

Very likely the village people envied
Madame Marnet and me, smiling and gay.
Our music was sprightly; the composer said
*^ con spirit," and we obeyed, and sang and
played as if Fate had smiled at us all the
days of our lives. Whether happiness was
universal I know not ; but hunger was.
We all agreed that we wanted supper, and
we got it.

Now, amongst the dishes of appetising
things that graced the board, there was
one of lobsters, in a forest of parsley. Tt
looked most inviting, but a flaw in my
constitution prohibiting shell-fish as an
article of my diet, I contented myself with
looking.

Others partook, amongst them my companion,
Madame Marnet. Not for a second

do I suppose she had any idea what
the result would be ; for I ever found
her most considerate towards her fellow
creatures. Alas ! she punished one of
them upon this occasion very severely.
The good lady betook herself to her
slumbers, and I strove to follow her
praiseworthy example, when a terrific
volley of snorts expelled that hope. These
snorts were followed by a cadence on the
nasal notes of the most marvellous compass
and execution.

My astonishment was so immense, that
I sat up in bed to look if she really did
make the sounds. She did. Stretched
on her broad back, with her mouth wide
open, she snored until the bed shook under
her.

How deeply, how sincerely I sympathised
with Monsieur Adolph ! I could

even forgive him his red nose ; for perhaps
it did require something stronger than
an easy conscience to enable him to sleep
through such a hurricane.

The clock struck two. The moon rose
late, and was not yet half over the trees ;
the light was clear and bright.

Can anyone lie in bed awake and think
only of the things in the room ? I cannot,
and not having any interest in the future,
my mind naturally enough turned backwards.


I had thought a good deal, more than
was advisable, as a sharp pain in my side
told me, when a moving light in the adjoining
room caused my heart to palpitate
still more. I now noticed that the door
was ajar. My intention was to rise and
shut it. I did not fear robbers ; I did not
know what I feared. To add to my discomfort

Madame Marnet had put out the
lamp, and with the exception of a few red
embers in the grate, we were in darkness.
I reached the door, but what I saw when
there did not induce me to shut it, but to
open it a little wider, that I might see the
better.

The bearer of the light was a woman,
habited in niofht-clothes and barefooted.
She stood with her back to me, before an
old upright press, the door of which she
had opened. Her golden hair streamed
far below her waist. For some seconds
she was motionless, then swiftly and noiselessly
she wheeled round.

It was Rachel Rock.

Her eyes met mine — those dreamy grey
eyes, and I expected ,her to speak. She
set her candle on the table and breathed
heavily, as a person in a deep and troubled

sleep. She was thinking; her hands worked
nervously ; she muttered, then her voice
broke in a harsh whisper :

Be at peace, mother ; poor mother ! I
did no wrong."

Sleep overpowered her again, but only
for a couple of seconds. The tortured
brain was not Quieted yet. She lifted
the candle and walked towards the door,
halted mid-way and considered. Again
she turned and pointed to the press, whispering
:

It is safe, spite safe — till — till the day
of judgment."

She backed out, keeping the press in
sicjht, and muttering herself.

I was rooted to the spot ; my nerves
were tightened to an extreme — a terror
made alive in me that had no equal. I
had become possessed of half a secret.

The moon was shining full on to my bed
now, and I buried my face in the pillows.

I was roused in the morning by the
maid, Rachel Rock.

'^ Her ladyship's compliments, and will
you breakfast in bed, madam ?"

I declined. Madame Marnet accepted
with joy:

Nothing I relish so much as having
my breakfast in bed once in a way.
You are soon dressed, Mrs. Sharland."

I assented. If her brain had been
going like mine, she would have been soon
dressed.

Speeds the early morning light
Through the misty vale of night,
Hill and wood with sounds are ringing,
All that flies is thither winging !"

It was a fine bracing morning ; the huntsmen
were riding 'to meet. The baying of
the hounds, the call of the horn, reminded
me of autumn mornings at Up Holland.
How often had I listened, even turned
out of my way a trifle to meet the gaily-dressed
merry party, and exchange greetings
with some !

I must get away, out into the open air,
to think alone.

Breakfast was not before half-past nine.
It had only just gone eight. I made my
way into the lane, declining the company
of Alpine. 1 turned to the left and soon
entered upon a vast extent of common, with
huge thickets all over it. In a corner of
this lonely place, and at the edge of a wood,
there was a tiny cottage, evidently occupied
by a gamekeeper or woodman. I was just
as much alone — as secure from human eye
or ear — as if I had been on a mountain.
I seated myself on a tree that some gale
had twisted up by the roots. A sense of
freedom, a temporary liberation from the
world and its galling fetters and petty
cautions, came upon me, and I revelled in
it. I envied the people who lived in the
tiny cot, now hidden from my view.

I could be more than happy in it, or
another like it — I could be at rest. I

need not struggle to hide my sin, to keep
my branded face turned from the light. God
knew that I grieved more for the sin that
was another's than I did for my own ;
that I had sought and taken the right
path when every atom of my flesh resisted,
when every bound of my heart brought me
nearer to him who so needed me.

True, I had no more right to be
Mr. Lovering's wife than I had to be a
saint in Paradise ; but I had no more
right, and no more power to disconnect
our hearts and brains, than one of the
brambles on Crags-foot Common. Whether
to heaven or to hell, our souls must go together,
for they were one and the same.

When I lifted my head I saw many pheasants
hurrying along, pecking the insects.
Their glorious plumage reminded me of
golden hair, and I recollected the woman

Rock. My brain was cool ; I had not
imagined anything. It was true, too true,
for her, poor creature ! Had she a sorrow
like mine ? What was the secret that lay
hidden in that press till the day of judgment
? What was it ? A fiend tempted
me. Ere I quitted that fallen tree I decided
to try and discover the secret.

Our time was made pleasant to us by the
kindness and courtesy of Lady Fane. Lord
Fane had not joined the hunters, and in
the afternoon asked me to drive with him.

I assented very willingly, for I saw that
in their upright minds there could lurk no
coarse suspicion — no sickening insinuation
would ever escape their lips.

Once in my lifetime I had the misfortune
to be misjudged, and the shame and
indignation that overpowered me then is
not forgotten.

This narrative is not all fiction, and it
may chance to fall into the hands of those
who will recognise th(3 facts. I earnestly
hope it may. The perfectly true and unvarnished
statements contained herein will
prevent all contradiction.

Having received one or two small benefits
from an elderly bachelor — a man reputed
rich, and consequently devoured by
a herd of hungry relations, I thought it
behoved me to make a return, and decided
on a pair of slippers. The next difficulty
was the size, and I had no alternative but
to ask one of the she-dragons who guarded
him and his liberty. Heavens ! could I
have foreseen to what I was about to expose
myself, nothing should have induced me to
ask the question. Nature having been
stingy respecting this little person s body,
she had made amends by bestowing upon
VOL. in. 43

her a remarkable degree of impudence.
Impudence that met you at every turn — ■
in words, in voice, in manner, in each twist
of the common little countenance. I
made my request, and in return received
uncle's message — an insulting one. Though
rather of a curish nature, I believed he had
a touch of manliness about him. And I
did not think any man would be so needlessly
rude, or so regardless of his own
interest, as to lay himself open to the scorn
and ridicule of every sensible person. It
was a lie the young woman told, as her
own afterwards delivered opinion more
than convinced me.

It conveying to my mind the pleasant
assurance that they suspected me of trying
to catch uncle, I got out of the house
with a smile on my face, and decided that
I would go there no more. Poor man \

his was a great life spoiled by a lot of
parasites whom he had not the courage to
shake off; and in the end he was guilty
of a piece of injustice, a cowardly lie,
which blighted one life, and stripped his
of all honour.

My drive was a charming one. In the
old lord I found a genial spirit, and with
a brighter face than I had worn for many
a day, I went to my room. The last
concert was over ; we retired to rest.

43—2

All are sleeping, weary heart !
Thou, thou only sleepless art !"

I AWOKE without a start. There was the
light under the door, clear, steady. I
slipped out of bed and took up my position
in the doorway.

I was late ; she was going, and putting
something away inside the press. She
made no sound, save a sigh of extreme pain
and sadness.

Then, as on her first visit, she walked
out, carrying the light carefully The door

she shut behind her. I determined to
seek for the thing I had seen her handle
so sacredly.

Perhaps, conscientious reader, you are
shocked at my want of principle in trying
to pry into another woman's affairs,
and above all a woman who was nothing
to me, and with whom I could have
nothing whatever to do.

Now in this year 1880 I am able to
reciprocate your feeling. I am really
shocked and ashamed of myself Then,
I experienced no such feeling. I seek not
to cast the disgrace of the action upon
either angel or devil. I will offer only
this defence :

There are times when not even the
strongest of us are our own masters, or
capable of exercising the cool impartial
judgment which at every other moment

of our lives forms our chief quality and
characteristic. I could not help going to
that press. I carried the tall wax light
from the toilet-table.

The press contained shelves and drawers,
fitted into the curious angles of the
carving. It was not so much a useful
article of furniture as a valuable and
antique one.

Cups and plates, books, toys, the general
necessaries for a nursery, were stowed
carefully away in it.

The drawers had neatly folded baby's
and dolls' clothes in them. I could find
nothing calculated to form a subject for
secrecy, nothing resembling the object I
had seen in her hand.

From my childhood I had never taken
kindly to defeats of any sort, and I was
vexed at my non-success.

Whatever it was, it was in the right-hand
half of that old cupboard, and I
would find it. My eyes noticed every
handle, every knob.

Ah ! — there are four drawers in the
middle row on one side, only three in the
other. And the short side is at the right
hand. Why should there be one drawer
short ? the space had not been allotted to
any other convenience.

The drawer was surely there, if I could
only open it.

I brought the candle nearer, and examined
the place where the tiny knob was
fixed to the others.

I was reduced to hopelessness, for the
wood was so dark it was nearly impossible
to distinguish anything, when my eye
caught sight of a tiny tiny little dot of
something black peeping from under a

portion of carving. I touched it — it moved ;
I pulled it — it lengthened. I held in my
hand a piece of twisted purse silk. Now
it yielded no more it was all paid out :

I used more force ; the drawer opened,
and there was what I sought, the dark
ball — a brown satin bag rolled tightly
up.

I could hear the beating of my heart,
and my rapid breathing made the candle
flame quiver.

Now that I had succeeded I lost my
presence of mind, and the slippery bag
glided from my trembling fingers back
into its place in the drawer.

It seemed to my fevered fancy alive,
and wishful to preserve its secret. I had
a repugnance to the thing — I was afraid.
I struggled with the feeling ; there was a
certain fascination about that brown satin

bag that chained me to the spot, and
irresistibly indited my fingers towards it.

I drew it forth once more, set the
candle on the table, and opened it.

I beheld a good sized piece of neatly
folded paper, and a wedding-ring joined
by a faded blue ribbon to a curl of brown
hair.

It was a short crisp curl, shorn from a
man's head.

I almost shrieked as I touched it — it
sent a thrill up my arm to my heart. I
was in a hurry now ; I opened it, I read, I
understood.

I held in my hand the certificate of
marriage between Rose Russell and
William Levering.

That paper told all there was to tell.
The ink was becoming indistinct, but to
my vision it seemed written in blood.

It was sad. They had married young,
probably as much in earnest as most
people, and they had to learn bitterly that
the fatal step had been taken with too
little reflection.

Separation had followed. I pitied the
girl from my soul. It is usual to hate
one's rival — I could not hate mine. My
own misery was too fresh in my heart,
and I could have sympathised with anyone
who had shared my anguish.

Had I been capable of any new feeling
in that awful hour, it would have been
hatred towards the man who had wrecked
the lives and happiness of two women, and
yet eluded his own punishment.

I learnt the contents of that paper ere
I replaced it ; then, with the terrible truth
locked in my breast, I laid myself down
and listened to the snoring of Madame

Marnet. When dawn appeared, I got up
and went out. What happened as the angels
opened the windows in heaven and gave
daylight to the world I cannot tell ; but
those who looked through must have
known how it was with the woman who
lay face downwards in the wood.

The carriage is at the door to take
us to the station. Our satisfactory visit
is at an end.

I am the last to wish Lady Fane goodbye,
and I make a request.

'^ Lady Fane, I am interested in your
late nurse, Rock ; should you ever learn
anything of her past life, will you tell
it to me ?'*

'' I will, Mrs. Sharland."

'' Is there no straight line 1
Are all things on the bend for ever and ever ?"

Once more in London, my old life
returned without an effort. I sang and
played at grand houses, and in the streets,
and I scoffed not at the smallest donation.
I had no need to dread poverty ; but though
I worked hard, I no longer took the same
interest in my success.

Nothing novel or of moment happened
until the beginning of May ; then I received
a sudden surprise.

I was helping to entertain the guests

of Lady Constance Lascelles one Friday-night,
during the first week in May, when
an exclamation of astonishment caused me
to look up from my violin, to which I
was busily putting a new string.

There stood Mr. Cartland. I knew he
could force no explanation from me, but to
the friend of my parents I felt it would
be unworthy to keep up the deception.

I saw bewilderment on all the faces near
as he grasped and wrung my hand. How
should I know that he stood high in the
opinion of most of the nobility, not only
on account of his own superior merits, but
also in consequence of having married
a very aristocratic lady ?

I had no idea how thin my face was
till I wanted to smile. The skin was so
tight I could hardly accomplish it.

I took my turn, played well and liberally,

by that I mean that I played it half over
again.

Then I accepted Mr. Cartland's proffered
arm, and let him lead me into a quiet
room, where spring flowers bloomed in
health and abundance.

He had grown very grey, but the eyes
were still bright and eager. His is one of
the most penetrating countenances I know.

He did not speak, but studied ray face,
my dress, my wedding-ring. His caution
was excellent. He had made use of no
name, surmising that I possessed one
unknown to him.

I would attempt no lie ; the truth at any
cost must be told.

*' You are astonished to meet me here,
and thus habited; I see it in your face,
Mr. Cartland. Believing you to be still
interested in me, I will tell you a part

of my miserable story, and leave you, with
your experience, to imagine the remainder.

^' I married a man whom I had every
reason to think honourable and good, and
when a wife of a few weeks, discovered
that he had gone through the same
ceremony before, and that the first wife
was alive. I left him, and came to
London to earn an honest living. I do
earn it. I am known as Mrs. Sharland."

Genuine sympathy showed in his face,
in the kind softly uttered :

Poor thing ! poor thing ! You did
right to leave the scoundrel, right to keep
your own name. I am only puzzled on
one point — how any man could deceive
you."

Easily. I was very silent, my feelings
are condensed ; I did not show to others
that I cared for him. He was likewise

self-contained and silent. That silence
was my ruin, Mr. Cartland. Had I been
less guarded, it would have been found
out, and someone would doubtless have
warned me in time. If he had sought the W
world round, he could not have found a
woman more fitted to enable him to carry
out his wicked plan. I was fool enough
to imagine he loved as I did, and my
love could countenance no lie by either
action or word. I did not know then that
men are too often only noble in appearance,
that they will stoop to, and contrive acts
of meanness, that a woman would shrink
from. But I know now — I have learnt
my lesson well."

Ah, indeed, poor child, you have
suffered ! Let not your wrong make you
unjust. Injustice is the crime of crimes,
an error reserved (in these enlightened

ages) for the brainless and untutored.
Perhaps he did not wilfully deceive you.
Are you sure the first marriage was valid,
and is the woman alive V

^' I am quite sure upon both those
points. I have seen the woman, and the
certificate."

He started.

Why did you not come to me in your
trouble, and let me fight your battle for
you r

My face grew hot all over.

because I could not bear to tell my
bitter shame to anyone. Do not name it
again, Mr. Cartland ; no justice can be
done me now."

'' Tell me his name ?"

*^No."

I do not know how the remainder of
that night passed. I saw Mr. Cartland

VOL. III. 44

watching me when I chanced to look up.
I had given him my address, and he said
he would bring Mrs. Cartland.

They did come, and I was out.

Before I had time to return the call,
something happened. I received intelligence
that I was the possessor of fifteen
thousand pounds, and a quantity of family
plate.

Mr. Cartland and some other lawyers
took an immense deal of trouble to explain
it all to me. I listened as politeness required
me to do ; but I purposely forgot
what they said.

I cared nothing for the dead relation,
whose property I, as next of kin, inherited.
She had never known or cared for me, and
was perhaps vexing herself in her coffin
to think her successor was so unworthy.
I did not feel in the least elated. I must

never venture to make friends, or aspire to
a place in society, so it mattered nothing
to me how I Heed, provided my conscience
approved.

On one score, however, I was glad. I
need not again face the world. The engagements
made must be kept ; I must
also give notice of my retirement.

I would go into the country, and never
set my foot in a street again.

If I could only go to CJp Holland !

44—2

I'd fain be home j with thy dull cares I am jaded."

By degrees I fulfilled my engagements. I
parted professionally from excellent Madame
Marnet. And yet I lingered in London.

It required an effort to move on, to
make any new plans. And I was so tired,
how tired I had not known when engaged
in the struggle for bread. I must have
been in a bad way when I grieved at
leaving my crib-like rooms in Moss
Street.

I had so little to love, I, who could have

loved so much. Pity me ! There is
nothing so desolate as an empty heart.

Nearly every day I went to Covent
Garden and bought flowers. They were
the only remembrance of my home which
I permitted myself.

Sometimes I got up early in the June
mornings, and astonished the sickly miserable
creatures who were creeping back to
their dens by running through the deserted
streets to a railway station, where
I took the first train to some country
place, and spent the day in the hay-fields
amongst the farmer's rosy children.

Maybe they thought me crazy, for how
could they know that every scrap of hay,
every bird knew my story 1

Nature was the only thing we had in
common. I knew he was out in the sunshine,
the breeze freshening his cheek like

mine, and I felt calmer, more peaceful, for
indulging the fancy.

There was an awful longing upon me, a
yearning that racked me, that tore at my
heart strings till they felt like to snap and
end my troubling. I wanted to go
home.

Oh, God ! how 1 wanted to go back to
my husband. I saw him penitent, pleading.
Heard him calling upon me to
return in tones tender and earnest enough
to have moved any woman. I could only
wrestle with the feeling and pray, and
that I did constantly, that I might be
deaf, blind, anything , so that I did not obey
this soul's summons.

I conquered. The strange phantasy
faded away after raging in heart and
brain two nights and one day.

The voice grew fainter, the features

more indistinct ; at last both were gone,
and I ate and slept.

My prayer was answered — the cost of
that answer you shall know later; either
my will was the strongest, or the Lord
lost patience and gave me my desire.

Be that as it may the victory was mine,
and I counsel all who may read this
narrative to take warning by me, and never
importune their God.

He knows what is best for us, not alone
for to-day and tomorrow, but for ever and
ever.

On my return one day from one of my
pilgrimages, I found a crested letter on
my table. It was brief and elegant, the
letter of a lady. It was signed Helen
Fane. Rose Russell, alias Rachel Rock,
was dead.

My feeling when I read that letter

stands alone. It had no predecessor, it
has had no successor.

There was no rush of joy, no relief from
a weight. I was stricken with the real
sense of my position. I had been no wife
while that woman lived, and her death did
n6t make me one unless he willed it.

He was free to marry any other woman.
Should I ask his mercy, entreat him to dome
justice ? Could I stoop to the man
who had deliberately wronged me, tell
him of his wife's death, and offer myself
for the vacant place ? He might scoff at
me — there is much brutishness in men I
No ; I would be silent.

I took up a pen to write to Lady Fane,
and laid it aside. I would go to Chislehurst.
An idea had occurred to me to take
the certificate out of the press. All the
power should be vested in me this time.

I could trust myself to use it judiciously.
Lady Fane said she was glad to see me,
and I knew she was. She liked me ; it
was just the drawing together of two
women of similar dispositions and temper.
'rock is gone at last, Mrs. Sharland.
Since her death I have been greatly exercised
in mind concerning her life, poor
creature. She had something locked in
her breast, that warded off death in a
peculiar manner. You have heard it said,
very likely, Mrs. Sharland, that anyone
with an uneasy conscience dies hard ?
She seemed to dread and fight with
death, not out of fear for her own abiding
place, but on account of some person or
thing from which she would be separated.
She struggled against all weakness in a
most painful way, and died as she had
lived — silent. Her sole desire was to

preserve her secret ; for after sleeping she
always buried her face in the pillow, so that
we could only hear moans — she inquired
very earnestly whether she had spoken. To
the very last she was sensible, and exercised
the same control over herself and her
speech that she had done when in health.
It was only when dead, and we lifted her
face out of the pillow, that we discovered
she had cried — died weeping. Oh ! Mrs.
Sharland, my heart was so sore."

And this noble and good lady cried for
the dead woman, real tears of pity.

I was disappointed. I had hoped she
might have revealed something and given
me some clue to the reason of the separation.
She was not stupid ; she must
have known her claim as Mr. Lovering's
lawful wife, and the position it gave her
whenever she chose to avail herself of it.

I couldn't think what threat or argument
he had used, what quarrel they could have
had, sufficiently strong to make her renounce
everything and go out as nurse.

When I went upstairs I slipped into the
nursery. It had never been disturbed ;
the dust lay thick. The bag was there,
and with it in my pocket, I bade Lady
Fane good-bye. It was not a final parting.
She said she should always remember me,
because I had taken an interest in poor
Rock, and shared her belief respecting her.
I might have made amends for her confidence,
and told her ladyship how far I had
progressed in discovering the dead woman's
secret. But I felt that a secret, of whatever
nature, that a life had been given to
cover, should receive at the hands of the
discoverer equal clemency.

I had not to deal with a living but a

dead woman, and let those scoff who will,
let those contradict who have never tested
the efficacy of the departed ; but let no
one through bravado or ignorance conclude
that the dead are always annihilated, and
so make a jest of what they held sacred.

Thus thou art laid,

And leaves thy friends ;
Thou hast no friend
Who will come to thee."

On my way to the train I visited the
churchyard. The grave was easily found.
Its freshness suggested mourners somewhere.
Loving relatives, whose eyes filled
with tears ten times a day, as old ways,
affectionate thoughtfulness, acts of kindness,
never to be done by the same gentle
hands again, passed before their memory.
Such joys and sorrows, meetings and

partings, make life. But what can be said
of the life that has had to be lived alone —
the woman or the man with whom no one
has any more to do when the coffin-lid is
shut ? Little or nothing.

Had I been able, I would have buried
the bag with its owner, and let the paper
and the bones mix together in dust in
that narrow home.

While thinking, I had opened it. There
was a second paper. It was neat writing,
with a dash of originality about it in parts,
obviously copied from some other penmanship,
when the writers hand was
formed.

It was like all else in the life —
false. Another proof of the care and
trouble that had been expended upon
making a new existence.

This was what I read :

^' It has been revealed to me in a dream
that my secret will pass from my keeping-into
another's. Let that other respect it,
lest-when we meet in the judgment hall,
I stand up and say, ' Behold Judas's
sister V That the man, whose name is
stated with mine in these marriage lines
may not be supposed worse than he was,
I will give my true and only reason for
leaving him. Pride. He got tired of me
and my common ways, for though I wished
and tried to be a lady, he said I should never
be aught but an imitation one. So I left
him. He did not want me ; I did not
want his money, and I loved him too well
to mar his life and prevent him having a lady
for his wife. I hope he is happy. My sin
was in letting my mother think I had gone
astray, breaking her heart, and giving way
to false pride. I shall be dead and buried.

years perhaps, when this is read, and the
reader will ask, who is Rose Russell V

Cautious to the last ! She had wiped
all stain off the man's character ; she had
supplied not one single atom of unnecessary
information while doing so. Had the
bag fallen into the hands of a person
unacquainted with the previous life of the
writer, it would have read like the babble
of a lunatic. To me it was perfectly sane
and intelligible. I had innocently taken
the very place she had vacated. I was
the ^' lady wife," the second and last actor
in the sweet little domestic comedy
performed for the amusement of the
devil.

Now, as before, I felt no anger towards
the woman sleeping at my feet. The
mysterious silence had come upon her
that awaits us all. She had behaved well,

lived and worked well. I ask that she
may rest well.

Two days after my visit to Chislehurst,
I called upon Madame Marnet. madame
was very pleased to see me. She was
fall of anxiety and fears for wretched little
Adolph, who was suffering from some
sort of cold, and drinking quarts of new
milk.

In a great arm-chair by the fire he sat,
wrapped in what closely resembled his
devoted wife's petticoat, smoking cigarettes.

He was, could such a thing have been
possible, uglier than ever.

I condoled with him as became me,
and he replied through his nose in the
most finished style, and managed to
squeeze in several compliments, and leer
at me behind his good lady's ample back.
What a dissolute little hypocrite it was !
VOL. in. 45

There were the dirty fingered cards peeping
out of the cut away coat-pocket, ready for
** Nap "on the instant.

My vocation as street-singer had disclosed
monsieur's haunts to me. I had
seen him sprawling on the billiard-table
after the balls, heard his yells of rage
when he lost at cards.

Ah ! poor madame, had you turned that
small viper adrift, your banker's book
would have been fatter, and a certain snuo^

establishment in D Street would have

been discovered with the shutters closed,
and the milk-cans hanging to the railings
some fine morning.

I was almost melted to tears at madame's
distress. It was genuine. She knew why
I was retiring.

I told her I was going into the country,
and when settled I would write. I did

not say I was going back to my old home,
but that was the truth.

My turn had come. I could now help
those who bad befriended me — dear old
Peggy and John.

I intended taking a small farm somewhere,
and letting John be master, and
Peggy knit stockings in the chimney-corner.


I had not written, good souls : they
would neither of them read writing, and
my business I did not want known allover
the parish. Moreover, the master
was the very person they would ask to
read the letter to them.

45—2

*' I know not what came o'er me,
Nor who the counsel gave ;
But I must hasten downward,
All with my pilgrim stave."

The carriage was suffocating, the journey
had been long, hot and dusty.

A brilliant sunset lit up one half of the
heavens, and I decided to walk rather
than sit cramped any longer.

So I ordered my luggage to follow, and
set off through the fields.

How beautiful all looked — so calm, so
peaceful. The corn was ready for carting

some standing uncut, rustling softly, bowing
their ripe yellow heads gracefully,
while the larks sang rapturously above.

The meek patient cattle cropped the
sunburnt grass ; the sheep walked placidly
up the hill-side. I was so happy ! so
happy !

A little child was swin^ino^ on a cottage
gate by the wayside, eating his supper —
a large slice of bread. Such gentleness,
such joy was upon me, that I kissed the
little Saxon, thinking that perhaps some-day


My pace slackened as I neared Up
Holland. The sun was full on the old
house, and on two figures in the garden.
I stood panting, I could not still my heart.
It was Peggy and John. The old man
stood leaning on the gate smoking, a look
of sorrow and perplexity stamped on his

honest countenance. His wife was plucking
lavender, and chanting a Method
hymn.

What strange sense of trouble, what
quick and horrible realisation of a loss,
something gone, gone, was it that came tome
as I looked ?

My heart stopped. One little plunge,
and it was going as before, at its plodding
painful beat.

The house with the sun on it, the old
people in the garden, I seemed to see in a
dream. The unknown sorrow stood between
me and reality.

My voice sounded frightened and hollow
as I said : " Good evening."

John took his pipe from his mouth ;
our eyes met, and he bellowed :

*' Peggy! Peggy! here's Miss Grace
comet at last."

They drew me inside the garden, and
hung over me in delight, then stood back
to look at me.

The old woman's eyes opened wide.

"You're like a ghost, missis, that you
are ! Aye, but this world is a sorry place
for a body to tarry in long."

She threw her apron, over her head, and
turned away.

Surely you are glad to see me, John V

In course, in course ; only Peggy
there, she was always for running on two
lines at oust, and upsetting everybody like
herself. Cheer up, missus, Miss Grace is
come instead of that winged anselm you
was axino' the Lord for last niofht. I'm
of opinion that she'll be more use too."

This remark had the effect of drying
Peggy's tears, and turning her attention
to immediate perplexities.

*^ You've come in the nick of time
maybe, Miss Grace, for we've had neither
head nor hand to guide us since the
master was took."

'' Took !" I repeated.

'eyes, took with madness," replied John,
carrying on the conversation, Peggy being
busy again with her tears.

'^ He's gone daft, Miss Grace. I wonder
when we shall any on us forget how
he was taken. It was down in yon
meadow in haying time. He had been
a bit queerish off and on for a good while.
Some days like a lion raging and cursing,
others like a lamb, not caring much what
we did, so as we did not bother him, but
leave him alone in the fields. He lived
outside. Many a night in the orchard or
croft. In the morning he'd come to
Peggy to the dairy, his clothes dripping,

and have a drink of milk. We dared not
speak. At last every bit of sense went
clean out of him, and he fell down amongst
all the men. The doctors say the sun did
it."

The sun gradually lowered itself behind
the hills ; the birds sang more softly, and
I stood speechless in the sweet old garden,
hardly for the time less mad than the man
they had told me of.

Where is he ?— there ?"

I pointed towards the Manor.

No, not now. They have taken him
to a place for mad folks, at Skipton."

'' What's the name, Peggy V

'' Abner's Retreat."

'* Yes ; that's it, and I reckon he's as
good as dead — he'll never come out."

*^ Poor master ! He was a grand man.
Him as acts for the ladies is letting everything

go to ruin. So we are going, Miss
Grace. I don't care how soon now, as you
be back."

Barrow-wheels sounded ; it was my luggage.


For ever — for ever ! that whisper in my
ear. Mad — mad ! My remorse poisoned
my life. Now my longing to return those
days in June was explained. His spirit
was striving to reach mine ; his mind was
given to me till it became powerless. Had
I but hearkened to the message, obeyed
the instinct, I might have arrested the
ruin. I was punished, justly punished.

*' 01), wad some free the giftie gie us,
To see oursek as tiers see us."

I HAD a fearful illness, and a hard struggle
for life. The doctors called it nervous
fever. It was remorse. I just lay there,
paralysed by grief and horror. I was
numb and cold — so cold.

The corn was housed, the woods were
red and yellow, ere I got about again.

My illness accounted for the awful
change in my appearance.

I told Peggy and John of my sudden

riches, and intention to look out for a small
farm.

The first use I made of my recovered
strength was to visit the man I loved more
than my life — the man who had taken my
heart with him into the trackless path of
lunacy.

News of my return travelled quickly
also my unexpected fortune.

The Miss Loverings called. T did not
see them. Mr. Cartland came and stayed
several days with me. He made me go
out with him ; gave me, as it were, a
second introduction to the world. To him
I told all. No punishment greater than
God had sent could ever come upon the
erring man ; no restitution could be exacted
from him v/ho had nothing in common with
the world, not even a thought. It was like
speaking of the dead.

All the sympathy a man could give he
gave me, also unexpected help. He knew
Dr. Abner, of the private asylum at
Skipton, and obtained for me permission
to see Mr. Loverinsf. Whether he confided
my story to Dr. Abner I know not, and
never inquired.

To see him, when my longing grew intolerable,
formed my chief desire. It
brought back to my mind the long weary
.time before he spoke, before I dared show
him I loved him. I used to say, '' Say
good-bye to me kindly, sir," and he did it.

He little knew how my heart ached in
those days, how his silence crushed the
spirit within me. God forgive him,
and others who mercilessly use their
power !

I paid my first visit with Mr. Garlands
and made the acquaintance of Dr. Abner.

The Retreat was enclosed in spacious
grounds, and each patient had his or
her own rooms. It was one of those expensive
establishments where afflictions
are softened to those who can pay. The
tenderest sensibilities could not have been
shocked by anything seen at the Abner
Retreat. Every consideration was shown
to the patient, fill suitable recreations
permitted. The only thing denied was
liberty.

The doctor was a small thin man with
the most beautifully shaped hands and
feet. He was playing with his children
when we arrived, and his merry laugh
echoed through the rooms. No depression
hung over him or the place, and no one
would have supposed they where in an
asylum.

*^ Can you see Mr. Lovering, madam ?

Certainly you can. H^ was walking in
the garden not half an hour ago. He
is a clever fellow, Cartland, a man of
genius."

He rang a bell.

'' Send Maxwell here," said he to the
man who answered.

While we were waiting the arrival of
Maxwell, I asked Dr. Abner a question
that was of much moment to me.

Dr. Abner, is Mr. Lovering's memory
quite impaired ? Does he recognise his
friends ?"

His sisters have been the only people
to come so far, and he burst out lauorhino:
in their faces and ridiculed them. He did
not remember them. His memory is excellent
concerning some matters ; but those
are connected with his earlier days. Are
you afraid he may recognise you ?"

I am not afraid for myself, but for him.
Would a shock do him harm ?"

^^ My dear lady, you could not give
him a shock. He has no mind to shock.
You are observant ; you must have
noticed a daze over him at times. Perhaps
in the middle of a conversation a puzzled,
vacant expression ?"

'' T did, but supposed he was lost in
thought."

*' He was lost in space — the brain had
lost its grasp then.'^

'' Dr. Abner, you do not attribute his
loss of reason to any trouble, any disappointment
'?"

^' To speak candidly and unprofessionall}^
I do not. Had all his wishes been gratified,
this calamity might have been postponed.
Fretting, as men of his temperament will
fret, would probably bring it on earlier.

A steady, strong intellect constantly at his
service would have supported him, induced
him by force of example to indulge in no
precarious flights of fancy. But it is my
opinion that he has always been shaky.
His is the most restless, brilliant intellect,
and its power and richness has been its
ruin. Had he possessed but a quarter of
it he would have been a renowned genius.
It was too much for him ; he could not
govern it, and it has just dashed itself to
pieces. He ought to have married ; many
a man is kept out of a mad-house by his
wife. What do you say to that, Cartland V

'' That it is a miserable truth. We are
but poor creatures left to ourselves."

The entrance of Maxwell stopped the
conversation.

Maxwell, how is Mr. Lowering today
r

VOL. Il ' 46

Very well, sir, and very busy. He is
just finishing a long address to tenant
farmers, which he purposes reading at the
next Royal Agricultural meeting," replied
the man with perfect gravity.

^^ Ah 1" retorted the doctor, " and before
the last page is dry he will be
wandering about my fields, composing a
scheme to be laid before Beaconsfield, to
facilitate drainage and the growth of
wheat. He tells me he has had an interview
with the noble earl. I should think
he would astonish him. We are coming
to see Mr. Lovering, Maxwell."

My heart failed me when we neared the
door, and I got behind Mr. Cartland.

Look !" said my good friend.

Mr. Lovering was standing at the end
window with his hat tilted over his brows,
and his arms hooked back over his stick in

the old attitude. He looked much as
usual, as I had seen him so often standing
in his fields. God was stood in not letting
the shattered mind blemish the body, or
my heart must have broken. I blamed
myself for the desolation that had come
upon him. Had I done v/hat was clearly
intended that I should do, pocketed my
pride, come back when I knew of his
wife's death, told him, and left it to him
to decide what we were to be to each
other in future, I might have arrested the
ruin. The doctor was speaking to him,
and I could hear the deep swelling tones
and see the flash of white teeth against
the red lips.

'' Yes, you are right," replied my husband,
'you know what Burns says :

' wad some free the giftie gie us
To see yourself as others see us.' "

46—2

T could endure no more. My eyes
gushed over. My memory, fiendishly
prompted, reproduced the scene in my
room one night at Up Holland, when he
had eluded the vigilance of his relatives,
and come to see his lonely tenant. He
had quoted the same passage to me, and
now that I should hear no more the quick
utterance and odd opinions, I recollected
almost every word he had spoken to
the.

I went home. It was over ; my life
had ended for me.

I returned the Miss Loverings' call one
wintry day. No one named him whose
absence cast a gloom over everything connected
with the place. The house seemed
deserted, cold, dark, depressing. The
old ladies huddled fearfully in one small
sitting-room, under the rule of presuming

domestics. I did not stay long. All they
had done for me was to knock down my
idol and break it.

My next attempt was to carry out an
idea. I was attached to Up Holland.
The old place had associations that could
never creep round any other home, and I
felt that to tend what he had cared for
would sweeten my Hfe to me if anything
could.

I applied for the house and farm, and
got it. John was delighted. The Leetes
were kind, true friends ; they are so still.

Trouble had not forgotten to knock at
their door. " A fellow feeling makes us
wondrous kind." My sympathies had
always been alive in that quarter, and
when I saw how unflinchingly Mary stood
up beside her old father, and offered her
young shoulders for the weight of care and

disappointment that whitened his locks,
and dimmed his eyes, my compassion increased.
Duty and affection are expected
from a child, but the child who beseeches
a share of another's care when scarcely
able to carry her own portion is a noble
child, a grand woman.

Mr. Leetee's sons had all gone wrong,
and betaken themselves to strange cities
and lands. This necessary move had, however,
not been made until a considerable
difference had been effected in Mr. Leetee's
fortune. This Mary vowed she cared nota
straw about. A few years and they
would retrieve some of it.

Then, if not fretting for the money,
may I inquire what you are fretting about,
Mary ?"

She laid down the stocking and lifted
her honest eyes to mine. We were in the

pleasant dining-room, and the noise of the
mill could be heard through the open
window. I had gone over to spend the
dav, as I so often did, and drove home in
my pony-cart in the evening. My farming-scheme
answered ; things throve under the
management of John and myself; and
Miss Sharland, of Up Holland Farm, was
well known.

'' How much do you know, Grace ?" she
asked.

I know nothing — I only guess."

^* Then papa has said nothing V

"Nothing."
A twinkle of humour came into her eves.

Grace, I must have hidden my talent
under a bushel, and I am being punished
for so doing. Surely my calling in life was
that of an actress. Anyway, I have
managed to hoodwink both you and papa."

*^ To deceive me is no difficult matter,
Mary. I am naturally unsuspicious, and
my brains will never now lend themselves
to any great discovery. It takes me all
my time to keep things going equally all
round. But do not be too proud of yourself,
for though I do not know the cause of
your trouble, I perceive you have one.
Tell it me."

'' I will. You know Mr. Singiehurst ?"

'eyes."

*' Did it ever occur to you that he was
more than a friend to me 1"

'' No. Why, Mary r

The lips quivered, but the eyes remained
steady, showing the unwavering
mind, the firm will whenever exerted.
Presently the piteous tremble that only a
really loving woman's lips ever know
passed away, and gave place to a sneer.

'^ No doubt you, like every other person
in the parish, consider Walter Singlehurst
a good, honourable man, or, as he would
term it — righteous. How I detest that
phrase ! The last time he sent a couple of
ducks here, he, in his note to me, said
there was no one to whom he had a more
righteous pleasure in giving them. But
you shall hear of what order his righteousness
is, then you can judge for yourself.
It is nearly three years since he first commenced
to make love to me, in a cautious
manner, I own, but there was no misunderstanding
his motive. He threw out many
hints, even going the length of consulting
me as to whether I should like to live in
Wales. Perhaps he expected me to throw
myself in his arms, and say : ' Anywhere
with you, dearest Walter.' Being the reverse
of impulsive, I did not do it, but responded

as became a decent young woman
of my age and position. I fancy papa
wondered what brought him so often. He
came every week, and stayed till after
nine, always sitting with me while papa
went to lock up the mill for the night.
Last Christmas but one he cooled, and
I was vexed. My vexation increased
when he positively avoided me, and I saw
nothing of him for nearly three months.
I began to prepare my mind for the worst,
and hard enough. I found it, beset by so
many worries, including Lucy's illness. I
was sitting working one evening in May
when I saw him coming up the garden. I
used to smile and kiss my hand ; this
evening I took no notice. The hardening
process T had prescribed for myself was
beginning to tell. He came in, reserved,
cross. After a few disjointed scraps of
conversation, he said :

** ' So I suppose you have changed your
mid V

'* Stung ito resentment, I echoed :
*^ ^ Yes, I have changed my mind.'
*' ^ And you believe it will be better V
*' ^ I have every reason to think so.'
' Ah, very well, I understand. I have
done wrong, I should have spoken sooner ;
I have waited too long. I am very glad
you have told me : one place will do forme
to end my days in now as well as
another.'

'' I was tongue-tied, and very sorry for
what I had said. He went. When I had
time to reflect I was ashamed of the untruth
I had uttered, for I had riot changed
my mind. But when he came I would explain.
He did not come. Now, to make
a mistake everyone is liable, but to persist
in that mistake is peculiar only to some,

and such people are contemptible cowards.
I wrote. I expressed myself sorry, and I
asked him to forgive and forget the circumstance.
I said that trouble had
numbed me, but that to alter would take
all the light out of my life. You are surprised,
Grace? Yes ; I humbled myself — I
owned my fault — in a measure, I placed
myself at his mercy. You will be more
astonished when I say that I am intensely
proud of that letter. There was nothing
silly in it, but as I understand such
matters, something very honourable. You
perceive my intentions were honest — I was
in earnest. He took no notice of the
letter ; he did not come. When at last he
did, it was Sunday, and papa was at home.
Gradually he resumed his visits, and though
his manner was perhaps a trifle cold, I did
not suppose he was cherishing anger

against me. One Saturday in September
papa ^Yent to some show, and in the evening
Mr. Singlehurst came. He commenced
to speak of the wickedness of a
woman deceiving a man, but that after
three months a man got over such treatment,
and then amused himself, as he was
doing. He had kept away of late because
people talked ; but ' if they wait long
enough they will find out there was no
cause for their chatter.' He looked at me
temper and revenge gleaming in his eyes.
I was silent, and presently asked him what
he thought of the new organist, and did
not encourage him to prolong his visit.
What he had heard I cannot say.

*' He came aofain, and treated me to
some more merciful and manly taunts,,
giving me to understand that he was an
injured man, and I a very hard and deceitful

woman. I resolved that, come
what might, I would silence him. To be
talked to is bearable, to be talked at is
unbearable.

"The only thing I could recollect in the
least likely to have vexed him was the
conversation that spring evening, and for
that hasty speech, though duly provoked,
I had made timely and ample amends.
The next time he came I was ready ; I
told him how objectionable his remarks
had been, and that whatever he had heard,
I had said nothing to give rise to them.
I recalled my untruthful statement which
had obliged me to write that letter. Had
he received the letter ?

' Yes.'

' Had he understood it V

li I Perfectly ; but what of that now ?
He,' with a superior smile, ' never looked

back. He could recollect nothing of the
afar' — had no idea to what I alluded ; that
I should not allow such things to annoy
me.'

'' Grace, he looked me straight in the face,
and in a scoffing tone as good as told me
I was either a liar or a lunatic. I bade
him good-bye ; attended him politely to
the door. I saw misgiving in his eye.
He had played his trump card and lost.
I seas standing upright, composed, and
dry-eyed, when I closed the door upon his
majestic form. I suffered — something,
how much is of no importance. At the
end of three weeks he came, under pretence
of telling papa a small matter, in reality
to see how I was supporting my life, robbed
of his hypocritical devotion. He found
me neither hollow-checked nor melancholy,
undisposed for either suicide or a convent.

I was setting along nicely, and fighting
my sorrow furiously and silently. I was
aware that the keenest torture I could
inflict upon him was a brave spirit and a
cheerful countenance. I betrayed no displeasure;
I was the essence of gracious
politeness. A week after his call I made
a little party, and invited him and two of
his sisters. He arrived punctually at
eight o'clock in a tail coat, and with his
hair parted down the back. I was most
engaging, most affectionate to those stupid
girls, and between rage and disappointment,
the righteous man was well-nigh
rent in twain. I have been to their house,
they have been here again. I have written
to him, nice friendly letters, when papa
had need for me to do so, though his
eldest sister did maliciously inform me
that she knew more about Mr. Single-hurst's

letters than he did himself. Now,
Grace, what do you think of my acting T

*' Think ; why, that you must pay a
good price for it, Mary ; and I advise you
to make it up with him. You may live to
hate your own strength of will as 1 have
done. You weill never know anything so
bitter as a lost true love."

Mary drew a long breath.

Possibly, but I am not sure that his
was true. He denied it, Grace, and he
said he had been amusing himself. A
woman can hardly be expected to appreciate
such candour."

Lovers always have tiiFs, Mary."

I know nothing about them ; this is
my solitary experience, and I can only
remark that if his amusement has been
anything in proportion to my misery, we
shall never one forget the other. Mean-vol.

III. 47

while I shall put the tea to draw, and not
wear my heart upon my sleeve for days
to peck at."

■vr T?- -/-/r

Four years ago the wind brought me a
message.

Dawn is creeping round slowly, it is
early spring. The wind is singing gently
amongst the trees, the ducks are seeking
the pond, quacking as they go. I awake.
I am alone in the room, as far as I cause
; yet a strange consciousness of someone
near makes my dull heart bestir itself
I sit up and listen. The wind lifts the
leaves ; they knock gently at the window,
and a voice says :

"Grace, it is I.''

Just those four words. He had not
forgotten.

November 5th. — John and Peggy are
sitting in the kitchen. All the beasts are
housed and fed. It is a bitter night : the
moon rose blood-red over the ice-bound
pond three hours ago. It is very still.
Is the last silence much greater 1 Let
us forgive one another.

I pledge you in this cup of grief,
Where floats the fennel's bitter leaf !
The battle of our life is brief,
The alarm, the straggle, the relief —
Then sleep we side by side."

THE END.

Willing AND SONS, rf.INTJ:;KS AND ELECTROTYPliK.S, Guildford.
