Crown Zvo^ cloth ^ 3^'. dd. each.
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS AND BOOKSTALLS.

By FLORENCE MARRYAT.

PEERESS AND PLAYER.
FACING THE FOOTLIGHTS.
A BROKEN BLOSSOM.

THE HEART OF JANE WARNER.

UNDER THE LILIES & ROSES.

MY OWN CHILD.

HER WORLD AGAINST A LIE. \ MY SISTER THE ACTRESS.

By ANNIE THOMAS (Mrs Pender Clip).
FRIENDS AND LOVERS. I ALLERTON TOWERS.

JENIFER. I KATE Valiant.

By LADY CONSTANCE HOWARD.
MATED WITH A CLOWN. I SWEETHEART AND WIFE.

MOLLIE DARLING. | ONLY A VILLAGE MAIDEN.

By MRS HOUSTON, Author of " Recommended to Mercy."

Barbara's warning.

By MRS ALEXANDER FRASER.

A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY. | THE MATCH OF THE SEASON.

A FATAL PASSION.
By IZA DUFFUS HARDY.
LOVE, HONOUR AND OBEY. | NOT EASILY JEALOUS.

ONLY A LOVE STORY.
By JEAN Middlemost.
POISONED ARROWS.
By H. Loveth-CAMERON.
A NORTH COUNTRY MAID. | A DEAD PAST.

By DORA RUSSELL. I By LADY VIOLET GREVILLE.

OUT OF EDEN. I KEITH'S WIFE.

By NELLIE FORTESCUE HARRISON, Author of " So Runs my Dream."
FOR ONE man's PLEASURE.

By EDMUND Leather.
THE A C T O R'S WIFE.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

A NOVEL.

BY

THE AUTHOR OF " THE GARDEN OF EDEN,"

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. I.

LONDON : F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C

1886.

fall Rights reserved.]

V
Si

5^

^

G R I S E L D A

CHAPTER I,

^

^

URE white snow everywhere.
Lying thick on the hill-tops
against the slate-coloured sky,
in drifts on the fields, where the hedges
were mere lines in the whiteness, in
patches on the red tiles of the village-houses
— snow clinging to the grey
church-steeple, clustering upon the green
ivy, which was black in contrast to the

VOL. I. A

dazzling, sparkling crystals — snow melting
slowly from the sloping roof of the
vicarage close by.

It was a wintry Christmas Eve at the
little village of Crowsfoot, in Midland-shire.
Crowsfoot nestled in a grassy
valley under the Langton Hills. There
were farms here and there about, but no
village for three or four miles. The
small population of Crowsfoot consisted
of farm-labourers, a few tradespeople to
supply these with bread and living necessities
; the doctor, Mr Mayne, — and the
vicar, the Reverend John Black.

There was no squire ; there were no
gentlemen farmers.' The Crowsfoot
folk were rough and ready, living from
hand to mouth. A hard, toiling life, but
pleasant because it was lived out in the
lap of Nature. And ignorant — stupid.

perhaps, as those hard-handed, rough
men and women were, there was the
charm of Nature upon them, the rude
sweetness of her big babies that have
never been weaned from her bosom.

When ' Parson Black,' or ' Parson,' as
his rural flock called him, came to live
among them, there was a tinge of
savagery about these tillers of the
ground. He felt it, and determined to
tone it down.

John Black was strong in soul and
body. He had been a friendless orphan
of mysterious origin ; he had never known
exactly how he came to be one of the
struggling, passionate atoms called men.
He had come into consciousness, living
with an old nurse and her husband, but
treated by them as their superior. It
was 'Master John' with them, and they

waited upon him, not he upon them.
Their name was Hobbs ; but he was
Master John ' till he was fetched away
to school — a strict boarding-school, where
he found, to his astonishment, that his
name was ' Black.'

Self - contained, thoughtful, naturally
surly, his school-life would have been
unhappy had he not worked with all his
might, carried off prizes, plodded upward
doggedly till, as captain of the
school, he won a scholarship and went
to Cambridge. Here he continued his
persistent efforts, took a good place
among the wranglers, and went in for
Holy Orders.

His life had been utterly friendless.
Except poor old Hobbs and his wife,
he had neither kith nor kin. He had
known no father's pride, no mother's tenderness.

When he won honours, there
was no one to be pleased. If he had
an illness, no one cared. He might have
died — he sometimes told himself, with a
desolate sensation which is a bitterness
happily known to few in this world — he
might have died, and it would have
been as if a fly had dropped dead from
some wall upon the ground.

Little wonder that he looked beyond
this petty world for his life ! They called
him the ' star-gazer.' He had certainly
one peculiarity — he had never learned to
laugh. Happy mothers teach their loved
babies to laugh, as they sprawl, young
monarchs, upon their gentle knees. But
John had not had a happy mother, nor
had he been a loved baby. He neither
laughed with his lips nor in his heart.
Therefore he was a ' wet blanket,' a ' killjoy'

— at cricket, or boating, or football
in fact, at all those times when those
who have learnt happiness practise it,
and when those who have not, wonder
what it is, and slink away abashed at
not knowing such a simple thing. John
Black could read Greek as if it were
the plainest English ; but happiness — oh,
that, he confessed, ' floored him ! '

As he was not one to be checked or
worsted, he determined to conquer this
great science of Nature, which he considered
quite as necessary to him as
mathematics. He had grasped difficult
problems most closely when explaining
them to others ; so he reasoned that he
might possibly learn this glorious unattainable
thing, which flushed dimpled
cheeks and brightened eyes, and made
creatures sine and dance and love and

be patient, and which seemed the very
essence of young Hfe, — by watching and
assisting at its birth in others. After
pondering, he concluded he could do this
best as a minister, or priest, or clergyman,
or parson, as even he, from old Hobbsian
habit, called the interpreter of heavenly
matters. He had thought of being a
doctor, but, as his nurse Hobbs expressed
it, ' hadn't no call that way.' ' No,' he
resolutely said to himself, ' I will doctor
their souls and cure miseries.' And so
he did.

Although without relatives or friends,
he was, strange to say, not without a
solicitor. The firm, Messrs Everest &
Everest, of Lincoln's Inn Fields, had paid
Hobbs and his wife for taking care of
their client ' in his infancy ; had paid
their client's ' school-bills and the trifling

expenses not covered by his scholarship
during his college career. When John
Black Informed them by letter that he was
about to enter the Church, he received a
formal reply that any fees could be had on
application. Once, and only once, did
John have an Interview with these lawyers.
He Intended to find out who he was and
where his money came from. All he could
discover from these gentlemen, who v.^ere
coldly polite, as to the merest stranger who
might have called upon them without pre-knowledge
or introduction, was that he,
John Black, had four thousand pounds, of
which they were the trustees. Where that
money came from, or who had placed it in
their hands, he could not find out.

That hour was the crisis of his life. The
waif, the discarded creature, the disowned,
utterly alone, must either hate mankind or

love them. He endured a brief agony of
shame, resentment, desperation, and came
out of it full of pity, sympathy, compassion,
ready to forget self and fight for others —
in fact, a real, honest, good man.

His sound heart was felt through his
gruff, ungainly manner. People began
to feel instinctive confidence in him.
One of his former tutors, now a country
parson, invited him to stay, before he
began to look about him for a curacy.
The delicately pretty Evelyn Vane,
this kindly clergyman's eldest daughter,
was greatly interested in John. The interest
became love — strong, deep love on
John's part. Mr Vane did not object to
John's peculiar position, so John Black
and Evelyn Vane were married. Messrs
Everest & Everest made no demur about
providing the necessary money; more than

this, on his wedding-day, John received
an intimation from them that he would
shortly be appointed to the living of
Crowsfoot, in Midlandshire, a living
which was worth some three hundred and
seventy pounds yearly.

These Everests are not the stones they
would have us think them,' was John's
idea. He had a stern simplicity about
him. With him it was wrong or right,
good or bad. He saw no middle paths,
and was absolutely free from suspiciousness.
But Mr Vane, double his son-in-law's
age, had seen mankind without a
veil. He knew now that behind the
Everest protection was the mystery of
John's birth and parentage. But he kept
these notions to himself.

After a short honeymoon in the Highlands,
John Black and his young wife

returned to install themselves in their
future battle-field. They had to fight
ignorance, semi-savagery at first. The
people of Crowsfoot had been neglected.
The living had been one of many held
by one man. It was looked after by any
curate who chose to bury himself temporarily
for a consideration. There was no
school. Children tumbled up as they best
might till they were big enough to work,
when they went into the fields. They
looked upon church as they looked upon
carriages and servants, — as something
belonging exclusively to the rich ; and
they were very poor. The church, when
John Black ' read himself in,' was literally
in ruins. It smelt of damp, like a vault.
No one had been forthcoming to mend the
organ, so there was a poor old wreck mil-sewing
away in a corner. The very cover

to the Communion-table was in rags. At
first John was raging ; he was possessed
with anger and indignation till he had hardwork
to control the outward man — to seem
calm. Evelyn, his wife, respected his
righteous wrath. She agreed with him
to put aside half their income till matters
were mended. Then both — steadily, earnestly,
patiently — began to stem against
this tide of idle, wanton neglect. The
church was repaired. John went the
round of the parish. He went into the
cottages as an old friend, come to help
everybody and fight their battles for them.
His firm hand grasped the toil-worn hands
with a grasp of possession. Once their
hands were grasped, their hearts soon
followed John's strong, tender heart. He
was no apostle, no saintly idol, among
them. He was not even their shepherd.

No — he was the head of the flock,
leading: them as one of themselves. As
such, he soon led them in the right path
towards happiness. Dirt, idleness, listlessness
and their attendant vices gradually
dropped away. On this snowy
Christmas Eve, seven years after John
Black's instalment as vicar of Crows-foot,
there was not a more thriving, prosperous
village in Midlandshire.

Yes, there it lay, half-buried under the
snow. The two chubby little boys born
to John and Evelyn Black during those
seven years had been busy in the frosty
garden making a snow man. The vicar
was out ; he had gone to a farm some
two miles away, where the house mistress
was dying. Mrs Black and the
one old servant were so busy preparing
the Christmas meat and puddings for

the poorer parishioners, that they had
wrapped the little boys up like mummies,
and had sent them out to that great
enjoyment of childhood, wallowing and
messing in the snow, to be rid of them.

What a pleasant kitchen was the kitchen
at Crowsfoot Parsonage ! It was
small, but the walls and ceiling and floor
were so white, the pots and pans so
bright, the crockery ranged on the
dresser shelves so shining and spotless,
every tiny bit of steel on the big grate
so brilliant! Now a glowing red fire
was urging the pots to hiss and boil.
There was a warm odour of hot pastry
Jemima, the plump servant, had just
drawn out one batch of smoking, light-brown
mince-pies from the oven, and
was pushing in another tin. Mrs Black,
seated at the table, was rolling out paste

with her delicate thin hands. She had
the face of an angel, the village-folk said.
And, though thin and pale and tired —
for the vicar's active helpmeet was indelicate
health, and little Doctor Mayne
had been ' dropping in ' by his request
very often of late — there was a true
spiritual beauty on the fair face and in
the tender blue eyes of the mother of those
bold boys who were shouting outside.

There is someone at the door, Jemima,'
said Mrs Black, as Jemima shut the oven-door
with a clang. ' Go and see ; there's
a good girl.'

Jemima hurried out, and came back
round-eyed with horror.

It's young Wright. Says his mother's
dead ; but don't you go for to believe
him, ma'am.'

Oh, dear!' Mrs Black was out of her

chair, through the passage, and at the
open door In a moment.

There,, on the stone pavement outside,
stood a great boy in a smock-frock,
blubbering. He had gone home from his
farm - work In the middle of the day,
and had found his mother on the floor
lifeless. He had hoisted her on to her
bed, covered her up, and rushed off

Mrs Black was accustomed to be ready
at a moment's notice.

Run for Doctor Mayne,' she told the
lad, ' and I will be with your mother as
soon as ever I can.'

She seemed to make one spring back
into the kitchen. She collected brandy,
beef-jelly, cordials into her basket, giving
Jemima rapid orders the while. Then she
flew upstairs, regardless of pain, of loss of
breath. She had tied on her bonnet, had

wrapped herself In her huge grey soft
shawl, and was back again in the kitchen
before the old servant recognised what
her mistress's intentions were. Then she
stood aghast. She knew that Mrs Black
took an intense interest in this poor soul,
who was slowly dying of consumption.
But she did not dream that the vicar's
wife would risk going out to-day thus in
her precarious state.

Why, you are never dreaming of going
out, ma'am?' Jemima lost her breath
from horror, and stood gazing at her mistress
as if petrified. ' Masterly be back
directly, or I'll go.'

The maid implored, coaxed. She well
knew that the vicar and Doctor Mayne
were both anxious about Mrs Black, whose
energy seemed to grow stronger as she grew
weaker with a weakness brought about by

VOL. I. B

overwork among the people and in her
home. But the more Jemima fumed, the
more determined her mistress became.

'Nonsense!' she said. 'A bright
winter's day Hke this ! It will do me
good. A matter of life and death, too ! '
Then she gave a dozen different orders,
and hurried off down the back garden
towards the gate leading to the fields.

The sky seemed clear, it was true ;
but a slight breeze was scattering the
snow from the branches. Behind the
vicarage, a bank of heavy grey clouds
was slowly but steadily rising. As she
trod the narrow gravel path where the
man who attended to the Vicar's cob
and to the one cow had swept aside the
snow, a bird gave a gasping chirp and
fell at her feet. It was one of the poor
robins who came to the window for

crumbs. She picked up the panting bird,
and called ' Tom — Harry ! '

The little boys left their snow man
and ran to her. She bade them take the
poor bird indoors, and put it in a little
box lined with wadding, near the fire.

There are lives to be saved to-day,'
she said, so gravely that the red-faced
little urchins were sobered.

Long after, they remembered that day,
and how they stared after their mother
as she hurried away over the untrodden
snow, across the field, she and they so
unconscious of the terrible meaning of
her words. The little lads' boisterous
spirits were gone. They went quietly
into the warm kitchen with their bird.

Lawks a daisy ! You don't mean to
say as you've brought a dead robin into
the house ? ' said Jemima sharply, as

she bustled about. ' I ain't one for
old wives' tales, as your dad calls
'em ; but I'd sooner see corpse-lights
a-hoverin' about them graves in the
churchyard ! '

However, 'mammy's' orders were law ;
and Jemima, feeling that life was suddenly
going askew on that particular
Christmas Eve, helped the boys to
lay the shivering little bird on the
wool, and let them squat on the
corner of the broad fender watching
the little heaving red-breast and the
filmy round eyes, while she went uneasily
about her work getting their
tea.

Your dad is a time ! ' she said, as she
clattered the teacups and cut hunks of
bread-and-butter. ' You'd better have
your tea here, and get it done.'

Shades of coming twilight were gradually
settling upon the snowy landscape
outside. Although the glare of the snow
made a white lio^ht of its own in the
kitchen, warmer red reflections on the
bright copper, pewter, and tin utensils
from the leaping flames were ruddy,
cheery spots in the pleasant interior.
The boys clambered to their seats on
either side of the kitchen table, and,
while they buried their noses in their
mues and ornate at their bread-and-butter,
they kept up a subdued chatter
subdued, because Jemima was 'worried'
the vicarage term for tempers and
humours incidental to humanity.

I seen him flutter a wing ! ' mumbled
curly-haired Harry, with three-year-old
grammar.

'He's all right enough!' said Tom,

with the superior wisdom of knocker
six. * By the time mammy
comes back — Halloa, there's snow ! '
he suddenly shouted. ' Jemima, it's
snowing ! '

Both boys shot themselves upon the
kitchen floor, and clambered to the ,
and with noses flattened against
the panes, were staring out watching
great soft flakes fluttering to the ground
before Jemima — who, with the excuse of
seeing to the parlour fire,' had been to
watch for her returning master — came
back.

'Hurrah! It's snowing ! ' The quick-elinor
snowfall meant a big-aer snow man,
finer snowballs, to the boys. In their joy
they forgot Jemima's ' worry.' Tom was
just shouting — ' They're bigger than the
feathers out of mamm)''s bolster that

day we played at sea-serpent,' when he
turned and saw such a grey horror
on Jemima's face, that, after pausing
one moment, he sHd down and setup
a howl.

It's enough to turn the mask of one's

o

blood to see you two a-gloating over
the snow and your mammy out in
it,' said Jemima, with deep disgust,
which completely upset little Harry,
who followed suit and began to sob
and cry. ' Ah, you may well cry ! '
And in the anxiety which hardened
her against the lusty boys, who took
all their delicate mother's devotion asa
right, and who seemed so brutally
unconcerned ' about her so long as they
had all they wanted, Jemima left them
to sob and cry.

She went to the front door that opened

upon the lane. As she did so, a gust of
wind came dashing the whirling, circling
snow into the narrow passage. The sky
was inky black above the white hedge
opposite. No sign, no sound of the returning
Vicar, or of any other human
being.

She went back to the children in dismay.
The snow was coming down with
a vengeance now, twisting, curling, and
drifting. In a few minutes it was many
inches hiofh on the kitchen window-ledge.


Can't see 'im now,' said Tommy, ina
subdued voice, alluding the snow

man.

No, nor you won't see yer mammy
neither, if this goes on ! ' said Jemima.
Then, immediately repentant, she went
and cuddled the boys, and, kissing

their scared little faces, told them she
did not mean what she said.

The angels come out nights like this
to look after them as can't look after
themselves,' she said. ' There — go and
see to your bird ! He's fluttering.'

But the two small faces were glued to
the cold window - panes, watching for
angels.

If they're going' to look for mammy,
perhaps they'll fly past here,' suggested
Harry. His elder brother was absorbed
in thought, gravely sucking his thumb.

Then came a sharp rapping at the
door and sounds of voices. Jemima, running,
opened the door. There stood the
tall Vicar, stamping the clinging snow
from his high boots, and calling out,
Mind you don't forget the warm mash,
William, and give him a regular brisk

rub down to the man who was dimly
visible through the falling flakes trying
to lead the steaming horse with the chaise
round to the stables through a drift
which had collected during this last bad
half-hour.

Shut the door, quick, there's a good
lass ! '. The Vicar came in, contentedly
shook the snow from his macintosh, and
hung it on its accustomed peg. Then
he walked briskly into the kitchen, this
tall stalwart man with the square face,
dark hair, keen though kindly eyes, and
firm mouth.

Dad, dad ! ' The boys were down
and about his knees. The confidence
brought about by their father's presence
cast away thoughts of angels, robins, and
a benighted mammy. But he kissed
them and put them aside.

Where's the mistress ? '

Jemima incoherently related the afternoon's
occurrences. ' She would go,
master — she would go ! ' was her refrain.

You say young Simmonds went for
Doctor Mayne ? ' As Jemima nodded
assent, John Black walked out of the
kitchen, put on his macintosh, thrust his
clerical felt hat over his brows, and
went through the beating snow to the

other end of the village, where the doctor
lived.

The neat lite house came upon him
suddenly, as it were, with its brown
door, red lamp, and well-swept frontage.
Even the laurels loomed greenly in the
whiteness, Doctor Mayne's gardener having
shaken them free from their snow
burdens an hour before the storm began,
and the chill crusts of wind continuing

to empty the glossy leaves. John rang
the clanging night-bell, and was impatiently
shaking the snow from his hat,
when the door opened, and there stood
the cheery little doctor, with his round
face redder than ever.

Halloa ! Mrs Black none the worse,
I hope?'

The Vicar's heart sank suddenly, unaccountably.
He was always fighting
against superstition in others. Now he
was unexpectedly called upon to fight it
in himself.

He walked in, shut the door.

Where is my wife ? ' he said.

Where — is — ' stammered the doctor,
amazed. Then, with the readiness which
is an absolute essential in a medical
man, he went on, ' Why, Mrs Black
is at home long ago, of course !

She left poor Mary SImmonds
some time before the snow set in.
Come in — '

And have a glass of wine,' he would
have said. But, as he saw the strange
expression, the sudden pallor on the
Vicar's face, he stopped short, and added,
Perhaps, though, she did not go home
when the first flakes began, but took
shelter half-way.'

The Vicar shortly said that there was
no house on the lonely road between
the Vicarage and Mary Simmonds'

cottage.

She is not home ; we must go and
look for her,' he added.

Certainly, my dear fellow.' Doctor
Mayne, trying to conceal his misgivings,
that delicate creature, with a time
of trouble imminent, out in weather like

this ! — hustled on his thick coat. ' I will
go with you. We had better go in my



cannot get round — she went

across the fields.' There was anguish in

the Vicar's voice.

My dear sir, we can get round
by the waggon-road that leads through
Rawlins's fields to Watt's Wood,' said the
doctor. * We had better have the trap.'

He gently forced the Vicar into his
consulting-room, then went off post-haste,
ordered the gig and his pluckiest mare,
and, with his wife, who was in consternation
at the thought of Mrs Black,
in her state,' lingering or lost in the
snow-storm, packed blankets, brandy, and
a hot bottle under the seat. In the
bottle was beef-tea, which was a perennial
pot-au-feu at Doctor Mayne's.

The Vicar, as the brave little mare
went struggling through the storm, knew
nothing of these preparations. It was
all the two men could do to keep seated.
The shrieking wind carried heavy masses
of snow hither and thither, as it went
howling across the white fields, roaring
in the tall tree-tops, raging among boughs
and chimneys, catching up whole hundredweights
of snow and, fiercely wielding
them as a weapon, dashing them
against hedges or gates or other obstacles.

She's a brave old gal ! ' said, or rather
shouted, the doctor, as the mare stemmed
against wind and snow, and dragged the
gig over the drifts and through the loose-lying
mounds. ' She'll do it ! '

They called at the vicarage, found
that Mrs Black had not returned, and
then urged the panting, labouring horse

up the lane which would bring them
near to the fields the Vicar's wife must
have passed through on her way home.
Between the gusts they caught sight of
the white slopes, bare, smooth, unbroken
by a footstep. The pathway was burled.
Doctor Mayne grew more uneasy. ' I
wonder where she Is ? ' he was just thinking,
when the mare stopped dead.

They cheered her on ; the doctor shook
the reins, tickled her smoking flanks, then
got out and tried to lead her. It was of
no use. The black mare stood with
drooping head, as if she were riveted to
the ground. Not a step would she move.
Doctor Mayne smoothed and patted her
steaming sides ; she only shivered. He
lifted up her hoofs and looked for stones.
There were no stones, and, as he replaced
her listless limbs, there they remained.

/ She's done up ! ' said the doctor. ' The
only thing I can suggest is for me to wait
here while you explore.'

But you will be snowed up in a few
minutes,' said the Vicar, springing down.
They were on the brow of the slope,
exposed to the full fury of the storm.
He looked this way and that. He hardly
dared remember that she, his wife, so
loved, so closely bound up with his life,
till it sometimes seemed as if she were
never less than part of his very soul and
body — was somewhere, somewhere — herein
this dead cold, this biting wind, this
heavy, freezing snow.

I can be dug out,' said Doctor Mayne.
Go — go, man — go through the woods
to Simmons's cottage, then track her
homewards. When you call out, I will
go to you ; then, if necessary, we can

VOL. I. c

carry her here, and, if I turn Bess round,
no fear but that she will go fast enough
towards home ! '

Track her ? How should he track her ?
There was the skeleton copse through
which he must pass to reach the cottage.
One look, and with head steadily bent
down, he literally burrowed his way
through the deep-lying snow, stumbling,
for here it lay perhaps two feet thick, and
half-a-dozen yards farther on was up to
his elbows. He flung himself over the
stile and was on comparatively free
ground. Then he ran — ran as if escaping
from an enemy, and in a few minutes
was knocking at the cottage door.

The door opened.

Mother's better, sir,' said the lad,
looking surprised to see the Vicar in this
weather. Mrs Black had revived the

fainting woman, and had left her comfortably
settled for the night. The little
sitting-room, with its homely furniture —
its neat bed, where the invalid was lying
on the pillows as the Vicar's wife had
deftly piled them, its Dutch clock ticking
steadily away in the corner — looked
cheery, comforting — coming upon it suddenly
from the external bleakness, as
the Vicar did.

He stepped quickly in, shut the door,
and, after a word to the sick woman,
asked for his wife.

Lor', sir, she left this two hour ago !
She's home by this time.'

Which way did she go } ' John
Black's voice was hard, stern, in his
anxiety.

It wor fine enow when she started,'
said the lad, frightened at the Vicar's

abrupt manner — he who was always
so gentle with his poorer brethren.
Doctored been here a couple of linnets
ay, less nor that — then off she went
down by Mrs Jones', Nurse Jones', to
get her to stop th' night wi' mother.'

The Vicar went out, shut the door,
and left young Simmonds all agape,
looking after the striding figure as it
disappeared into the white cloud. It
was coming down more heavily than
ever — and she, his delicate flower, in
this ! John Black forgot all in his one
wild hope that she might be at nurse
Jones' ! Doctor Mayne might wait
there on the hillside — there was more
at stake than the snowing up of the
doctor and his black mare. Down the
hilly lane he rushed, meeting the storm,
dashing the blinding snow from his face

with his half-numbed hands — down, till,
in his fierce haste, he leaped the garden
gate.

Nurse Jones, a gaunt, but pleasant-looking
widow, had just come in from
seeing to a sick person in the village, and
was shocked to hear from her son's
wife, with whom she lived, that Mrs
Black had been there and would not
be persuaded to stay. She was drinking
a cup of tea, and revolving in her
mind whether she should go out into
the storm again to follow the delicate
lady, when the Vicar rushed in, and,
looking wildly round, cried, —

'Good God! — Mrs Jones — where is
she ?'

The three started up — young Jones
was there. Nurse Jones, seizing a
shawl and tying a comforter round her

head, said cheerily, though inwardly
dismayed, —

She's been and gone, sir. But I'll
stake she took shelter like somewhere.
I'll lay we'll find her in that old barn in
the captain's field. 'Tis a snug place
on a day like this. Here, Luke, you
get out the lantern, and bring a couple
of blankets. We'll be down the lane
and through the gap in the hedge and
across that ploughed field in next to no
time. Don't you come, Mary.'

While she talked, she pushed the Vicar
gently towards the door. Then she was
off into the snow with huge strides.
Nurse Jones boasted she'd be ofT to a
patient as quick as anyone else could
ride.

But the barn is a Brood half-mile out
of her way home ! ' came in a tone of

anguish from the tall figure speeding
along beside her.

Ah, we women-folk ain't like the
men, sir. We ain't so fool - hardy.
Mrs Black snowed that a bath of
this sort of thing might be bad, like
she is — and, though she don't care
for herself — thinks less of herself than
I do of that Old cow of mine
Farmer Watts giv' me when his
missus o^ot better of the fever — she's
got it in her heart to think of
them as has got to come after — the
little uns.'

But even while she spoke, as if
Mrs Black's delay were of little or
no moment. Nurse Jones had misgivings.
She had thought the Vicar's
wife looking unusually ill. Even to
her strong nerves, the idea of the

tender - hearted little wife and mother
everyone loved so — fainting, falling,
and buried under these cold drifts —
was a strain. As they turned into
the field where the old disused barn
was, and she saw the blackened tumbledown
structure looming darkly through
the giddy mass of falling white atoms,
she shuddered. She fancied the doors
were shut. If Mrs Black were not
there — what would it mean ?

She must spare the Vicar that awful
moment of calling into dark silence and
hearing nothing but his own voice.

You stay here, sir, please, and watch
for Luke with the blankets — '

Without another word she ran onwards.


The doors were shut ! Padlocked ?
No, 'Thank God for that!' she said, as

lier chilled fingers fumbled with the door.
Oh, why were they numb, dead, just when
she wanted them most ? She rapped with
her knuckles, put her lips to the crack of
the crazy door, and called, ' Mrs Black,
Mrs Black ! '

Again she tried the door. Then she
cried out loudly. Then she put her ear
to the rusty keyhole.

Heavens ! What did she hear ? That
curious little cry — not a bleat, not a chirp,
not a whine, but one she knew so well
that It set all her blood leaping with eager
energy, and, almost wild with different
feelings, she gave one strong tug, and
stumbled into the barn.

The Vicar waited Impatiently under
the trees. There was a certain comfort
in the knowledge that Nurse Jones had

gone on ; he fully saw the necessity of
waiting for Luke with the lanterns and
the blankets — still, it was a cruel experience.
He stamped about ; he tried
to stifle his fears, to believe that, all
this while he was ferreting in the snow,
that dear wife was safely home. He
tried to think of comforting words he
had told his fellow - strivers from the
pulpit a few Sundays back — just after
the frost set in, and many would be
out of work — that it was the shorn
lamb which felt the tempered wind, the
labouring ewe that was gently led by
Providence, the forsaken plants, and the
homeless birds that were housed and
fed, no one could see or find out how.
Only it was so !

Dare I insist upon this to others,
and not believe it myself ? ' John Black

asked himself, with anger at his own
perturbation. He looked, peered through
the falling snow, but he could not seethe
barn. The moments seemed hours.
He prayed with all the passion of his
soul that his one love — his only friend,
his wife — might be spared to him. It
was a time of temptation, struggle ; but
he gained the bate. When young
Luke Jones came up to him in the fast-growing
darkness, he was calm.

They went along, the lighted lantern
casting fitful rays about. As they came
near the barn, a voice was heard shouting,
' All right ! ' in a triumphant feminine
tone. The Vicar stopped short.

God forgive me ! ' was the short
prayer that went up to Heaven. Then
he knew — he had not suspected it — that
in those recesses of the soul which are

never rightly known by human perception,
he had doubted, almost despaired,
of the very Providence he had steadily
preached to others.

But there was some excuse ! This
wife of his was the one woman in his
whole life. He had not known mother,
sister, or feminine relation. So soon as
earliest childhood was over, he had
almost resented the homage of ignorant,
matter - of fact, but well - meanings Mrs
Hobbs. Evelyn's love had come to
him, a sudden heaven ; and he had
thought she was lost, killed. God would
forgive him, ' worm though I am, and
no man,' he thought in his new abasement,
as he and Luke struggled towards
the barn.

You must not come in yet ; here,
give me that lantern and them blankets

! ' That, in an extremely every-day,
business-like tone of voice, was the
order given by Nurse Jones, who took
in the lantern and the armful of woollen
wraps, and disappeared.

Oh, this is all nonsense ! ' said the
Vicar, roused, reanimated. ' Keeping me
from my own wife indeed ! ' He tried
the barn door. It was fastened from
inside. He knocked impatiently.

You must wait a moment, sir, if you
please,' called out Nurse Jones' voice,
pitched at its most peremptory height.
I'll come to you presently, safe enough.
Mrs Black's here all right; but we can't
let you in just now.'

'Oh, very well!' said the Vicar. He
supposed his darling had been wet
through, and that the nurse was rubbing
her into warm life again, or something

of that sort. He drew his coat
closer, crowded down his hat, and leaned
up against the barn door, advising Luke
to do the same. ' Let us present a fair
front to the enemy, my boy,' he said, in
the hilarity of sudden relief.

The wet, cold snow pelted them more
unmercifully than ever as night came on.

How I am to get the mistress home
I don't know ! ' said the Parson.

Luke, in his slow bucolic way, was
suo-orestinor that he and his wife could
sleep on the cottage floor, and that Mrs
Black was more than welcome to their
little room under the thatched roof, v/hen
the Vicar started, —

Good Lord ! what was that ? ' he said.
He felt his hair bristle on his brow.
Fear, wonder, hope, joy — all crowded
upon him.

Then the barn door scooped, and
Nurse Jones said, ' You may come in ! '
in that queenly manner she assumed
at crucial moments in the lives of
families, when women are all, and men,
if not exactly nothing, are ' next door
to it,' as she could have said.

And Parson John Black stepped out
of the snowstorm into the dim barn.
The lantern on the floor lighted up a
corner, where he saw Evelyn's sweet,
pale face among a pile of blankets, hay
beneath her, hay around her.

Before you go to her, look at your
dear little daughter, sir!' said Nurse
Jones proudly, uncovering the bundle
in her arms just enough to show a
sweet little pink face, like some pretty
rosebud, in her rough wraps. ' If she
hadn't ha' been the dearest, patients

little soul, you'd ha' been a widower
now, instead o' having the sweetest
little daughter on the face of the
earth. Now don't you go making a
fuss with the mistress, sir — she's got
to stop here yet-awhile. But we'll
make a fine bedroom o' the old barn
afore we've done. And we don't care
for snowstorms, nor for nothing, now
that we've got two, instead of losing
one ! '

Nor did the Vicar care. And he
thought that the moment when he
reverently knelt by the side of his
wife, lying so sweetly contented on her
bed of hay, the happiest moment of
his life.

Baby was so good — oh, so good,
John ! ' said Mrs Black, as her husband
took her chill, frail hands into his



warm strong ones. * I could not have
believed that it was in a tiny, unconscious
creature to be patient like that.'

It was the patience of the little infant,
prematurely born in a barn, that
led John Black to name his one and
only daughter — Griselda.

VOL. 1.

D

HE babe born in the barn
that snowy Christmas Eve
was to Hve.
They called her * Griselda.' She was
a quiet, patient infant. She never,
during the first five years of her
little life, had much attention. For
the tender young mother, who would
have been as devoted to her first eirl-
babe as she had already been to her
sturdy sons Tom and Harry, was an
invalid.

Mrs Black did not rightly recover

from the exposure to the cold that
night when Griselda was born in the
snowstorm. She became gradually paralysed.
When Griselda was six years
sold, she was helpless, carried from her
bed to her sofa by her husband, and
-dependent upon Jemima as a child upon
its nurse.

John Black's right hand — his helper,
his active second self — was physically
dead. But her sweet mind and bright
brain remained. Mrs Black's sofa in
the Vicarage parlour was the centre
of the house. The Vicar and Jemima
planned and worked together for the
fragile creature. Tom and Harry, rough
boys though they were, trod softly, and
hushed their loud young voices in the
house for mother's sake.

John Black bore his trouble well —

hLl"fl,TV Of >a.MO«

and not well. He said nothing about
it to anyone. Outside his home, he
was more brusque, more commonplace.
Within his home, he was gentle, firm,
tender, and worked unceasingly. Up
at sunrise, he got his reading and
writing, and his sons' lessons for the
day over, often before breakfast. Then
came a precious hour devoted to his
wife, when all the strong wealth of
love in his deep nature was lavished
upon his stricken darling. His parish
duties were fulfilled to the letter. But
there was something wanting. People
said that John Black was * not the
same man at all.' They felt a changes
they could not describe it.
The outward change had a deep-seated
cause. John Black rebelled against his
fate. His deepest feelings — those that

belonged to him as a creature in Eternity
— were bitter, hard, daring. He
bore his cross in sullen anger.

Life at the Vicarage had proceeded
quietly for six years. Mrs Black's condition
was an accepted fact. People
were kind, sending books, flowers, and
newspapers, and presents of game and
fruit. The proud Lady Romayne, of
Feather's Court, would often send over
a groom on horseback with some little
delicacy. Then came a time — a time of
change.

It was spring. Mrs Black lay on
her holland - covered sofa in the neat
little drawing-room which Jemima kept
carefully arranged and dusted. Choice
hothouse flowers were in a china bowl
on the centre table. A spreading fern
hid the little grate. The children had

been for their morning ' talk to mammy
as they called it. 'Mammy' was a little
tired. But it was a pleasant languor
rather than actual fatigue. As her
gentle blue eyes wandered from object
to object — all her little treasures, her
girlish possessions, her wedding-presents,
carefully placed where she could see
them to the best advantage — she
thought how kind everyone was, —
how good it was to live. Then, as
she looked without into the glorious
sunshine, and saw the great chestnut
trees a blaze of bloom, and the trees
in the orchard showered with delicate
pink and white blossoms, she felt it
would also be good to die. If there
were such peace, such beauty in this
little world, they must exist in other
globes among the countless millions of

planets as well. She listened to the
children's voices in the orchard, — to the
bleating of the young calves staggering
knee-deep in the waving grass, to the
busy twittering of the parent birds busily
feeding their young — the hedge between
the Vicarage and the field was a
favourite resting-place with the birds,
and she was perfectly happy.

Meanwhile, an adventure was happening
to little Griselda in the orchard.

Griselda's life was not all pleasantness
and peace. Jemima was fond of
her nursling ; but Jemima was always
busy, — her work was rarely forward, and
never over. So she grew brisker and
rougher, and Griselda's bathing and
dressings were times of torture. The
fair child had long, beautiful golden
hair. Jemima had a quick way of

combing out the tangles which was
positive anguish, and brought the tears
to Griselda's eyes. She bore this
patiently. How it had come about that
she had a sense of being in some way
a culprit — of deserving all that was
bad and nothing that was good — was a
mystery.

Perhaps it was from her father's manner
to her, which varied and was
constrained, or from stray confidential
sayings of Jemima to her village friends
in her presence, alluding to her as ' poor
unfortunate little soul ! ' — or perhaps it
came from Harry and Tom's imperious
ways.

They liked their pretty little sister,
but she was their victim and slave.
They played with her instead of with
the old dog, because, when the old dog

felt he was being taken liberties with,
he snarled and bit, and Griselda only-shed
silent tears. They used to bind
her with the clothes-line, and carry her
about, pretending they had captured a
robber or bandit. They knocked together
a little go-cart, and would rush
about the garden dragging it at full
speed, with Griselda crouching in it, till
it capsized. Often and often she was
scratched and bleeding. She was always
a mass of bruises, for which Jemima
called her a naughty tom-boy. For
Griselda never betrayed her tyrants'
secrets. They would haul her up into
an apple-tree, and go off on some mischief
or another, and she would sit there
quiet, perhaps softly singing to herself,
or thinking beautiful thoughts about the
clouds — those wonderful round white

glories sailing across the blue sky — or
dreaming over a fairy tale.

For * mammy ' read fairy tales to
them sometimes In her sweet, weak voice.
She wished the children to believe there
was more in the world than hard, common,
every-day life. She fancied —
poor lady — that stories of knightly
prowess might give Harry and Tom
a sense — a vague sense — of chivalry, and
she knew that a romantic soul looked
through those blue windows, Griselda's
eyes. But the knights' exploits only
made Harry and Tom more warlike.
It was Griselda who was comforted by
the old tales. She dreamed that a
prince came and delivered her from her
brothers. The dream became an idea, and,
dwelt upon in those lonely hours among
the apple-branches, grew to be a belief.

He would not come, she fancied,
till Harry and Tom had grown far
more cruel. But he would come, she
felt sure.

To-day her brothers were in their
wildest humour. Griselda, sent out into
the orchard to play upon the daisies turf,
went off quietly to a corner, with an old
doll with a battered nose, and pins instead
of the glass eyes the boys smashed in long
ago. Its wig had departed the first day.
Its gauzy clothes had been torn up fora
kite-tail. The mutilated effigy was
wrapped in one of Griselda's old pinafores,
and was about the most miserable
apology for a doll that ever was. But
the child loved it with a deep passionate
love — battered nose, pin eyes, bald pate,
and all.

She was a picture, as she sat thereon

an old horse-cloth, her delicate oval
face with the great wondering blue eyes
and the grave sweet mouth peeping
out from her blue cotton sun-bonnet,
her little figure like some huge flower
against the background of rough redbrick
wall. She was watching the
boys holding a mysterious conversation
as they stood by the tool-house. The
gardener had forgotten to lock the
door when he fetched out his scythe.
She watched Tom, a plain dark lad
with a hard forbidding face, hand out
two spades to curly-haired Harry with
dismay. What was he going to do ?

She soon found out. Tom came
across to a bed, lately made for some
cuttings of peach and apricot trees promised
to the Vicar by a richer neighbour
who had a fine assortment of

wall-fruit, and began to dig a deep
hole near the wall. When she asked
what it was for, he told her to mind
her own business. So she sat clasping
her doll tightly to her little heaving
chest, suffocated with dread lest
Tom should mean to bury her doll.

The idea of parting with her ' baby
as she called it, was so dreadful that
it was almost a relief when Tom stayed
his digging, and, throwing off his cap,
for he was hot, told her, —

If you particularly want to know
what this is, it's your grave.'

I may have baby buried too ? ' lisped
Griselda.

Oh, yes ; and then there'll be an
end of the horrid ugly thing ! '

As Tom glanced contemptuously at
the doll, Griselda thought hopelessly

that there would be an end of her
too. She wondered what it would belike,
to lie in that hole and feel the
shovelfuls of earth coming down upon
her body, till she was covered in, and
the blue sky would be gradually shut
out, and how long it would be before
her body changed and she flew out.
The Vicar had once shown her a newborn
butterfly struggling out of its
chrysalis shell, and had told her that
dying was like that. The dead people
he read the service over were the mere
shells ; they had changed and flown upto
a beautiful place, where they would
live, far more lovely to look at than
the most splendid butterflies. Griselda
believed everything she was told. She
did not know a lie. So she knew
Tom would bury her, because he had

-said it ; and she knew she would fly
out again like that butterfly flew when
his weak wings were shaken free, because
her father had told her so.

Still, she felt sad. Mammy would
miss her. Jemima would not be bothered
with her washing and dressing
and clothes-mending ; but when she
thought of that hearty kiss — of that
honest ' God bless you, my darling ! '
after Jemima had tucked her into her
little bed at night — she was sure
Jemima loved her, and would, be as
sorry that she was dead and buried as
she herself would be if her doll-baby
were taken away.

It would be better if Tom would
change his mind. Or perhaps someone
might come ! Then she would
certainly not be buried !

She sat watching the green door in
the red wall, and listening breathlessly.
She heard distant sounds of opening
and shutting of doors. Then she heard
Jemima's voice, and another which she
did not recognise, then footsteps, the
click of the lock of the door in the wall.

She stared, amazed.

A lad, younger than Tom, dressed ina
dark-green velvet riding-suit, stepped
down into the orchard — a handsome lad,
with dark-curling hair. He wore high
leathern boots and a fantastic low-crowned
green velvet cap, which he
touched lightly with his gauntleted hand
as he saw Griselda.

I am Hal Romayne,' he said, with
a stare of his dark brown eyes at these
children, who looked to him as rough
as any of the village * cads.'

Tom stopped digging, and said, ' Oh,
are you ? ' — looking the intruder up
and down. Tom had his ambitions.
He had heard of public schools. He had
hated young Romayne for his father's
wealth and position before he had seen
him. He hated him, now he did see him
for his dress and his good looks and his
slight manner of haughty condescension.

I have come from Lady Romayne
to ask your sister to spend the day
at Feather's Court to - morrow' Hal
Romayne said, carelessly playing with
his hunting - crop, and thinking that
Griselda's face was the prettiest little
face he had seen. ' Will you come ? ^
he said to her.

Griselda had stood up, still clutching
her old doll. ' Are you the prince ? *
she asked with awe.

VOL. I. E

What prince ? ' Hal Romayne
smiled encouragingly upon this little
maiden with the quaint ideas and the
silvery, innocent voice.

Griselda went to him, and, standing
on tiptoe, whispered, —

The prince come to save me from
Tom and Harry.'

Hal reddened, and stared disgustedly
at the boys, who did not look inviting
to his fastidious taste in their rough
clothes, flushed, with soiled faces and
hands. Hal had delicate white hands,
which he kept white with the most
zealous care, and, if there happened to
be a speck upon his linen, it was rejected
as unbearable,

Are not your brothers kind to you '^ '
asked young Romayne, loftily protecting.


They want to bury me — and my
l3aby too.' Tears welled up into Gris-ella's
eyes. The corners of her lips
drooped and quivered pathetically, as
she nodded her head towards the
grave.

I don't suppose they would have
hurt you, ' said Hal, with an air of
supreme contempt. * Do you always
amuse yourself frightening your little
sister ^. ' he said, in a drawling way, to
Tom. Then he offered his hand to
Griselda. * Come indoors to your
mamma,' he said. ' She is to say if
you may come.'

Griselda went with this extraordinary
being who had suddenly appeared in
her life. Hal cautiously handed her up
the steep step, closed the garden door
after them, still holding her little hand;

then they walked side by side along the
narrow garden paths, between the tall
lilies with their close-shut green buds
between the bushes of moss - rose,
which next month would exhale a
wealth of perfume from their pink round
blooms, Griselda, gazing at her prince,
arrived at last, in a species of ecstasy.
They walked through the narrow passage
into the drawing-room.

Mrs Black looked up with a faint
smile as they came in — the tall, well-dressed
lad and her lite Griselda in
her rough cotton frock and old sun-bonnet.
Outwardly an incongruous pair ;
but the delicate lady had perhaps grown
to be a dreamer in her suffering
solitude. She thought no more of Hal
than that he was a fitting escort for
her little maiden.

She had determined to refuse Lady
Romayne's invitation for Griselda.

Griselda is too young to go out,'
she said to the boy, amused to see
how his face fell at her remark. ' You
know she's only six years old.'

But I will take care of her said
Hal valiantly, his dark face reddening.
I assure you, Mrs Black, that no harm
shall possibly come to her. She shall
be my special charge.'

Mrs Black was amused. Little Gris-ella
at Feather's Court ! The notion
was absurd. But there was some peculiar
power about that boy. She
hardly knew she had consented before
he had taken leave — a courtly farewell —
and had mounted his pony, and had
ridden off, followed by his attentive
groom.

He doffed his hat and bowed low ashe
passed the Vicar in the village.
John Black glanced back, and wondered
at that boy.

A strange lad ! ' he mused. * Whatever
did he mean by that Don Quixotic
business?' He wondered still more

when his wife told him of Lady Romayne's
invitation. * Whatever can
have put it into her head ? ' he remarked.
' Griselda at Feather's Court !
Too ridiculous ! ' <

He grew grave when he heard Mrs
Black had accepted. But his wife's
decision was his law. Griselda was
destined — or doomed to make her debut
in the fashionable world early in her
simple life.

;John BLACK, that very day
when Griselda and Hal Romayne
first met, happened to
be in very good spirits. His humble
friends seemed unusually prosperous.
At the smithy on the village green,
Hugh Wells, the blacksmith, had come
out, his swarthy face broadly smiling,
to tell t' parson the missus had had
a letter from the son out in " Australia."
He was getting' on capital at the sheep-farming.
Says we shouldn't know him
if we was to come across 'm, parson.

He's got a long beard, and weighs
twelve stun.'

This was pleasant news for the Vicar,
who had been instrumental in the emigration
of Wells' consumptive son,
when Doctor Mayne had said a sea-voyage
was his last chance. After
congratulating the blacksmith, and standing
for a minute or two watching
the lads at cricket — it was a half-holiday
at school — he went on to the
school, a brick building under the
chestnut - trees. The door was open,
and he heard scrubbing. He passed
the village charwoman, who moved her
pail for him, and, going through the
soap - and - watery odours — which were
odours grateful to his nostrils, with his
hatred of dirt — he knocked at the door
of the schoolmaster's sitting-room. The

schoolmaster and mistress were partly
paid by him, partly by subscription,
and the weekly pence contributed by
the parents. Here John Black spent
a happy half-hour, looking at maps,
drawings, exquisitely neat sums and
copies, the work of the rough children,
who but a very few years ago were
running about, ragged, unkempt, barefoot,
and, if not actually in mischief,
with hopeless aimlessness. Then, coming
out, he met a young woman with
a beautiful child in her arms, and
she blushingly curtseyed deeply as she
shyly, reverentially glanced upward at
the man who had been her good
genius. He had come across her two
years ago in the darkness, crouching
near a deep pond. She had been
ill-treated and forsaken by the son of

the owners of the village inn. John
heard her tale, or rather extracted the
wretched old story from her unwilling
lips ; then he took her to stay at
the Vicarage to help Jemima till he
had stormed at, threatened, and shamed
the young man and his parents into
acknowledgment of a promise of marriage
which had evidently been given.
He had had a hearty delight in
marrying that couple. He often had
a hearty joy when he saw the happy
young wife and mother serving in the
bar, a favourite with her husband and
parents-inlaw, whom she helped and
served with the energy of grateful
love.

Strange that this day, of all days,
when he was to receive a crushing
blow, he should first be confronted

with facts that caused his happiness !
As he went through the village, noting
the neatness of the cottages In their
fertile little gardens, and remembering
what a wilderness — what a tumbledown,
poverty-stricken place this was,.
but how, by docile following of his
lead, these honest folk had raised themselves
and had thriven — his heart
swelled in his breast, and he began
to meditate whether indeed there was
any ill in life which could not be
conquered by good will and work.
Sin, disease, poverty, idleness — he and
the people of Crowsfoot had successfully
fought against these.

Of course there is death,' he thought,,
with a sigh. That was the great undefinable
thing which conquered man.
He had seen them die — frail infants

peacefully breathing out their souls ;
strong men, fighting desperately with
the creeping, numbing influence ; young
girls and youths, talking of life as
it fled from their weakening lips ; and
he had stood by, powerless.

Curiously enough, just as he was
thinking of death. Doctor Mayne came
driving along the road homewards.
The Vicar prepared to pass the gig
with a smile and a lifting of his felt
hat ; but the doctor drew up, and,
alighting, told the man to drive home
and tell Mrs Mayne he would be
back in less than an hour.

I've been wanting a talk with you
for some days,' said the cheery, bustling
little doctor. ' But you are such a
busy man, and those long legs of
yours are like seven - leagued boots.

You're from one end of the parish to
the other in a minute. There's no
catching you ! '

'Nothing wrong, I hope?' asked
the Vicar. ' I understood that scarlet-fever
case was all right, and that
nothing further was threatening.'

Oh, that's all right enough ! ' said
the doctor. ' No ; I'm just going
round to the captain's ; he's got a
touch of the gout — that port wine
again, you know — and I thought you
wouldn't mind going part of the way
with me.'

John Black followed Doctor Mayne
gravely through the ' kissing gate '
leading to one of the captain's grass
fields. Gravely, because he had met
this Captain Battery, a naval captain
who had retired and farmed his little

property, that very morning. The
captain was irascibly grumbling at some
labourers, but had not complained. This
visit was some excuse.

He hardly knew what the doctor was
talking about as they strolled along the
path across the fields, till they came
in sight of the old barn, when Doctor
Mayne stopped short and began speaking
about it.

'Wretched old shed!' he said almost
vindictively. ' To think what it has to answer
for ! ' Then he went on talking about
that day when little Griselda was born.

I never advised keeping them there,
if you remember he said. ' It was Nurse
Jones who frightened you about the
possible consequences of moving them.
Nurse Jones is an estimable woman in
her way. I don't deny that she is prudent,

clever — all that. But she is too
strong-minded, to positive for me. If
I had had my way, I should have had
a litter knocked together on poles, and
four men would have carried Mrs Black
and the baby from the barn to her own
room at once.'

All's well that ends well,' said the
Vicar uneasily.'

Of course ! But in this case it is
plot well. How could it be, with an
icy wind, enough to cut you in two, blowing
through those crazy planks upon a
delicate creature like that '^ My wonder
Alas, and is, that she ever rallied at all.
By the way, have you noticed any particular
change in her lately ?

She is more cheerful, more lively,
and I think eats more than she did,'
began the Vicar eagerly.

Ah,' Interrupted Doctor Mayne, * I
don't mean that ; it is other physical
signs.' He stopped ; his voice died upon
his hips. He had braced himself for
some Httle time past to say to this comrade
of his in the hard battle of life
what he must say ; but at the very
crucial moment his courage failed him.

Perhaps his faltering, his hesitation,,
told the truth less cruelly than raw words.

The Vicar's heart gave a leap ; then
he felt as one feels who is suddenly
unaccountably, mortally wounded. He
closed his eyes, he groped and would
have fallen, but for Doctor Mayne's
timely outstretched arm. The world
seemed to wheel round him, while his
life stopped short — stood still.

When he opened his eyes, they sought
the doctor's — dazed, agonised.

Don't let us beat about the bush,' he
feebly said. ' You are going to tell me
something — for mercy's sake be quick,
quick ! '

The doctor wiped the moisture from
his kindly eyes. ' Look here, old man,'
he stammered ; * you've always been
talking to us about Home from the
pulpit, and a good thing too — this hole
of a world, with all due reverence to
Him who made it, is no home for us.
Well, she is going Home, and going
very fast ; now, you know, you've only
been preaching as yet ; you've got to
show us — and you will too, if you hold up.'

Is there nothing to be done 1 ' whispered
the miserable man.

The doctor looked round, as if appealing
to the fair spring landscape, so full
of life, to yield up some, if only a breath,

VOL. I. F

to fan the waning life so precious to
this poor good man.

You might take her — by slow stages
to some more bracing spot he faltered.
But — oh — Black, how can I advise
it, when she might die on the way }
Will you understand that these years
since that snowstorm have been a slow
dying ? You have kept her alive, like
a plant without roots ; hers were cutoff
that dreadful day.'

'Don't — say — any — more!' said the
Vicar, with a gasping sob. * Thanks ! '

The two men gripped hands, looked
at each other, and parted.

Doctor Mayne, unstrung, * not himself,'
went up the slope to the captain's
house — the cheerful white building with
the gay green shutters, where he found
some little relief in talking over the

Vicar's impending loss with the captain
over a pipe and a glass of grog, and
listening to the captain's oft-spoken
remark that if he'd known that that old
barn was wanted as a patent hospital,
he'd have seen to it ; but, as nobody-told
him, it wasn't his fault, he didn't
guess — was it ? '

And John staggered off the opposite
way. He turned his back upon the
barn, although it had given its rude
shelter to his wife and babe in a sore
strait. He went blundering on till he
came to a clump of Scotch firs that
grew on the knoll where he had stood
waiting, while Nurse Jones went onwards,
that terrible Christmas Eve six
years ago. It was a bright warm
evening ; a vivid sunset shone through
the dark pines. He flung himself down.

upon the spongy earth, strewn with
layers of the dead needles, studded with
brown cones. He was cold, sick, trembling.
He dared not realise what Doctor
Mayne had said — he fought off the
thought of death.

If God made Eve from Adam's rib,
he made her my own out of my heart,'
he fiercely told himself. * She is my
heart ; I have no other. If she goes,
I shall turn to iron, to stone.'

He thought back upon his lonely,
harsh boyhood — upon that interview with
the lawyers, who showed him by speech
and manner that he was merely a matter
of business, that his very existence and
how it came about was a matter of
business, and nothing further — upon that
dreadful hour when he went out of that
office, repulsed, thwarted, disowned — and

fought out the short fierce battle from
which he must emerge mankind's close
friend or desperate enemy ; he remembered
his first glimpse of Evelyn, when
she came fluttering into the peaceful
parlour of that quiet country parsonage
in her white dress, with an angel's pitying
sweetness in her soft eyes for the
solitary youth. He thought of the first
time her gentle arms had clung to his
neck, her fair head had rested on his
shoulder, and then he started with fear,
for he fancied he heard a terrible cry
go out from near to far and echo in
the distance.

But he had not cried with his poor
human voice ; it was only the fierce cry
of his agonised soul going up to God.

How would he declaim God's commandments
from the Communion - table

with his soul a rebel ? How would
he preach love, forbearance, faith, hope
from the pulpit when her fair body was
lying meekly in the earth outside the
church, cold and senseless ? How
could he work and sympathise and console
and be patient when his house was
no home, empty, solitary ? God forgive
him ! At that moment the little beings
who called him father were, in his anguish,
less than the dust out of which
they came, and to which they must return.
Then, with quick revulsion, a wild
hope sprang up within him. After alla
man, a fallible man, had said this. It
was only the fiat of one human voice —
he would have the advice of the first
physicians. Everything that could be
tried should be tried ; nothing that
could be done should be left undone.

But — the money to do this ?

No one, not even Evelyn — the confidant
of his schemes, his hopes, his
perplexities — knew how hard and how
difficult it had been to provide for the
actual necessities at home, while he was
ready - handed to meet each valid call
upon his income from without. His life
had been a perpetual struggle to make
one sovereign do where two would
scarcely have sufficed.

He would not get into debt. The
children's wants had been supplied with
close economy. As for himself, he
went about almost threadbare. The
lofty Lady Romayne, who professed to
admire ' character,' had even remarked
that it was a pity Mr Black went
about so shabby. She really could not
ask him to dine ; it was more than she

could risk. It was now May. He
had money in hand that would, could
only last till midsummer, with the strictest
economy.

How were these expensive physicians
to be paid ? How was any plan for
saving his darling's life a little longer — just
a little longer — how hungrily he caught at
that straw of hope ! — to be carried out ?

There seemed to him but one way, to
sell out part of his little capital — that four
thousand pounds. Until now he had
merely drawn the interest.

These practical thoughts had brought
balance. He went home with an aching,
heavy heart ; but the sharp torture was
relieved. It was twilight when he walked
into the Vicarage. He heard the boys'
voices in the stable-yard. Griselda had
stayed indoors, following Jemima about,

some inward warning telling her to avoid
Tom. She came into the passage a fair
dream-child, saying, ' Father, will you
have some tea ? '

He bent and kissed her, saying, ' No,
darling, thank you ; ' then he went into
that bower — as he felt his wife's sitting-room
to be — sanctified by her sweet
presence.

Oh, dear, it is you ! ' There was such
a soft content, such a luxury of relief
and satisfaction in that dear weak voice !

He went to her couch, as he always did ;
he knelt beside her, took those frail, chill
hands in his, and leant his burning head
upon them.

It has seemed such a long time to-day,'
she began. ' I hope nobody is ill, dear ?
Your head — it is so hot ! '

John schooled his voice, and gave her a

brief account of all he had seen and heard
that was cheery.

How splendid ! ' she said, her slight
strength flickering up with satisfaction.
*Oh, John, how happy, how thankful —
we ought to be — how grateful to God ! '

She spoke these words — she sent home
those bitter stabs to the grief-stricken man,
with reverence, with loving awe.

Yes,' he said. That was a strange
sound, that * yes,' half suffocated, half-daring.


He dared his own emotions. He took
a bold moral leap, as it were, into a higher
stage, which just now he did not believe
he could possibly reach, the state of cheerful
resignation.

Put your hand on my head,' he said.
And once more Evelyn Black laid her
thin hand on her husband's head, and

smoothed his rou2:h hair with a caressing
touch. How that gentle touch had comforted
him, soothed his fatigue, calmed his
over-tired brain all these hard-working
years ! To-night it awakened a new agony,
for he thought of the possible long weary
years when he would have lost it — when
never more in the flesh should Evelyn
speak, or touch, or look at him.

He could not endure the strain. He
laid her hand gently back, rose, and paced
the room, his usual thoughtfulness for her
comfort gone.

She thought, ' Poor dear, something
has vexed him, and he is too considerate
to tell me ! ' So she began to talk to him,
with some amusement, of Hal Romayne's
visit. He listened, as he always listened
to anything she said, till she mentioned
little Griselda. Then he started.

Oh, don't talk about Griselda ! ' he
said, in a tone of such anguish that, if Mrs
Black had not seen her little daughter a
few minutes previously, he would have
alarmed her.

As it was, she merely thought he had
one of his fits of hopelessness about
her paralysed state, when he avoided
the subject of the Christmas Eve when
Griselda was born, and everything connected
with it. So, after getting an impatient
'Yes, yes, dear — just as you
think best,' to her demand for his sanction
of Griselda's visit to Feather's
Court tomorrow, she changed the subject.


After John Black had carried his wife to
bed that night, he went to his study and
wrote to Messrs Everest & Everest, the
Lincoln's Inn lawyers.

Gentlemen, — I am anxious to realise
as much money as possible.' — Then he
detailed his wife's illness. — ' In these
circumstances, I feel myself compelled to
sell out at least one thousand pounds of
the four thousand you have Invested forme.
I place the matter entirely In your
hands, to sell out where and when you
deem best, and have the honour to remain,
Your obedient servant,

'John Black.'

That letter safely posted, John felt
less completely miserable. In a week
or two It would be In his power to do
all that could humanly be done to prolong
his darling's life. Doctor Mayne,
whom he dally visited In the forlorn
hope of getting a stray scrap of reassurance,
talked of some months before

the dread power, Death, could finally
conquer them. John hung upon the
word ' months.' Never had it seemed
a shorter span, a more lightning-like
flash of happiness, than it did to this
man, who must — so God willed — lose
his all !

But he must hope against hope; he
felt that. * If I am cheating myself, I
must do it, or I cannot work ; I cannot
hold up my head ! ' he cried out
within himself. So he went about his
daily tasks doggedly, with a fair front,
and a soul propped up with stray reasonings
and impromptu fallacies.

Messrs Everest & Everest waited
three days ; then they telegraphed, —

Please arrange interview on subject
mentioned in your favour of 13th inst. ;
we should prefer it.'

In his highly-strung state he could
not imagine what this could mean.
His money was his own. Why hesitate
why delay — why demur }

It has been their way, I expect,
since time immemorial, and they cannot
change it,' he bitterly said, alluding to
the gentlemen of the long robe. Then
lie telegraphed back an appointment for
next day.

Evelyn looked wistfully into his eyes,
and clung to him more tenderly than
sever when he said good-bye that morning,
when he brushed up his worn
clothes, tied his white neckerchief with
greater care than usual, and started for
town.

He said he ' must go,' but there he
stopped. It was not her husband's
^ way ' to conceal anything. So Evelyn

wondered, put two and two together,,
feared, and arrived at no result, excepta
dread lest John should have lost some
of that little capital of his, on the subject
of which he had always been so
reserved, if not taciturn.

Meanwhile, John went express to town
went, bewildered by the noise and
racket, straight into the leisurely stagnant
atmosphere of the great legal quarter,
and was at once ushered into the presence
of the junior partner, ' our Mr
Walter Everest,' as the clerks alluded
to him when writing in the name of
the firm.

The tall, ungainly man, whose lanky
legs always knocked together, as if he
had seldom or ever left the library-chair
he seemed pretty well to live in through
the long office hours, half rose, half

nodded, half waved John to a seat, and
ended by saying solemnly to the clerk
who ushered in the client, —

A chair, Mr Jones, if you please.'

Then, while John looked round with
a feeling of dull pain, — for each chair,
each item in the bare room — the very
pattern of the carpet, and the stains
upon the old blind — recalled that cruel
interview six or seven years ago, — ' our
Mr Walter Everest ' looked closely at
the Vicar through his spectacles, then
leisurely removed them and laid them
upon the office-table before him, then
said slowly and severely, —

^ Mr— John— Black ? '

As if, indeed, the name were not
only new and strange to him, but that
it was not legally proved that this gentleman
here present was entitled to it at all.

VOL. I. G

I am John Black,' said the Vicar,
almost roughly, plunged back, as he
felt, into these painful recollections. ' I
came — '

One moment, if you please, sir,'
suggested Mr Everest, taking up a
bundle of papers, and applying one
corner of his spectacles to the writing
thereupon. ' I have reason to believe
ah, yes, I see — that our Mr Henry
Everest is concerned in this matter
equally with myself; I will therefore
postpone any discussion thereupon until
I can ascertain that he is unable to be
present.'

Certainly,' said John. Upon which
Mr Everest sounded a gong, and when
a clerk appeared, and, in answer to his
inquiry as to whether Mr Henry
Everest was within, replied, that he

did not know, but he would see ; he
ordered that if Mr Henry Everest were
to be found, he was to tell him, with
his compliments, that he would be
greatly indebted to him if he could
arrange to spare him a few minutes.

The clerk disappeared, and Mr Walter
Everest, with an air of being profoundly
occupied with some crisp new whitey-blue
papers at his right, shot a remark
now and then at John — the spring
seemed promising ; he hoped the farmers
would do well, etc. — until the door
was opened, a little man came abruptly
in, and, with an air of annoyance at
being thus unceremoniously fetched, said,
You sent for me 1 I am just engaged
in that Butcher v. Butcher case.'

I will not detain you a moment,'
blandly said the junior partner, rising

and offering his senior his chair, which
he at once impatiently turned his back
upon. This gentleman, a Mr — John —
Black — perhaps you recollect we were
trustees during his minority for a small
capital settled upon him — wishes to sell
out.'

The papers ? Of course you have
the papers,' irritably said the sharp little
man, stretching out his hand. Then
there was a short silence while he flicked
open some blue sheets and John's letter,
which was fastened to them.

'You — are — Mr John Black?' he said
almost brusquely, after he had finished
their perusal.

John, who felt as if his position with
these lawyers was at a greater disadvantage
than ever, reminded him that it
was but a few years since their interview,

when both gentlemen now present
refused to give him any information respecting
the relations or guardians who
had provided for him.

• My — dear sir ! ' began the little senior
partner, with an evident effort to tolerate
this most legal talk. * Really, if
our clients place matters of sentiment
before us, we cannot be blamed if we
respectfully decline to enter upon matters
which are entirely without our
sphere of action. I have some slight
recollection of some previous interview ;
but in the interests of business, interests
which are paramount, I naturally made
no mental note of an interview which
had no bearing on any case I happened
to be concerned with. As to this proposition
of yours — to sell out part of
the four thousand pounds we have invested

for you — we are really not in
the habit of arranging for the disposal
of such extremely small amounts. I am
right ? ' he added, turning to his lanky
brother.

Certainly,' said * our Mr Walter.'
Upon which John's heart sank.

But, let me consider,' went on the
sharp-eyed little gentleman, poising his
chin upon his hand. ' I think, Mr
Black, we might possibly meet your
wishes another way. We are always
more than ready to meet the wishes of
our clients when it is in our power todo
so. Now, v/hat I suggest is this :
that, as you are in want of ready-money,
you will draw upon us from time to
time, as occasion demands, up to the
sum of four thousand pounds ; meanwhile,
you may continue to draw the interest

of your Invested four thousand,
which will remain undisturbed. Do you
understand?'

John Black did not. He stared. He
tried to think, to calculate, to cope with
these wily lawyers. His brain seemed
in a fog. As he understood it, Messrs
Everest & Everest were actually offering
to lend him money.

He frowned. He stared into vacancy,
pondering. Meanwhile the sharp eyes
of the little senior partner were stealthily
watching him.

At what rate of interest ? ' said John
suddenly, turning upon the two.

My dear sir, we are not Jews, nor
are we usurers,' said Mr Everest, senior.
We wish to serve you, and at the
same time to save trouble to the firm
that is all. Of course, it rests with

you to accept or reject. As for percentage,
that is out of the question. We
hold your four thousand pounds. That
is sufficient security for us.'

There was further talk. John Black
left Messrs Everests' office puzzled, discomfited,
unhinged, although with a
cheque for one hundred and fifty pounds
in his pocket.

What does it all mean ? ' he asked
himself, unable to find any explanation
for the easy generosity of these cut-untried
solicitors, who were not only ready,
but pressing with their cheques.

'It is a mystery — a strange, cruel
mystery ! ' he mused, as he returned to
Crowsfoot. All the bright buoyancy of
his life, since he met Evelyn, seemed
obscured by a heavy cloud. If he could
have seen those lawyers after he left

their office, could he have been enlightened
?

The impatient little senior partner
bowed him out, then, closing the door
carefully, returned to his brother, grave,
and anxious.

He could not possibly have thought
anything, could he?' he said, in a low
tone — how different from his 'hectoring*
voice a few minutes back ! — * I am sure
it must be all right ? '

Quite so,' said the lanky Everest, ina
satisfied tone, stretching out his long
limbs, and beginning to pick his teeth.
It was an awkward situation, very.
But you steered us through — you steered
us through ! '

To think he never suspected anything,'
said the little man, on whose
features a sweet smile was gradually

spreading. ' That is what I cannot understand.
The man must be a dunce —
an absolute idiot ! '

My dear boy, he is a parson in an
agricultural neighbourhood, ' returned his
brother, who seemed vastly relieved. ' It
was a case of assimilating his intellect
to theirs, and you know what that means,
or of leaving the place in disgust. Well,
he has stayed.'

You may say what you please, Walter,
but he is a fine fellow,' said Mr Everest,
senior, energetically. ' That nose — so
wonderfully like, you know — then that
powerful chin — he will make his mark
when his time comes.'

Ay, when his time comes, if it
comes ! ' observed his brother sardonically.
' You know well enough that on
this point you and I differ.'

We shall see,' said Mr Everest drily,
as he went off.

Meanwhile, John Black was home, one
hundred and thirty pounds in his pocket.
The other twenty was with the great
physician, Sir Geoffrey Boole, who was
to see Evelyn at Crowsfoot in three
days from that date.

RISELDA slept very restlessly
the night after Hal Romayne's
visit to Crowsfoot Vicarage.
She had strange dreams. She was a
princess shut away in a dismal cavern,
guarded by a horrible dragon, which had
eyes like Tom's, when his temper was
at its worst. She was weeping and
mourning in her terror when Hal Romayne,
dressed in cloth of gold, with a
gold helmet on his long brown curls,
came flying through the air on his long-tailed
grey pony and thrust his spear

into the dragon, which shrivelled up
into nothing at the first touch.

Poor little maiden ! There was a
worse dragon watching at the Vicarage
doors to claim its prey — one which no
mortal eye could see, no mortal hand
could touch.

Meanwhile, her father lay awake with
his great grief, of which Griselda was
the innocent cause.

Years after, he remembered and bitterly
blamed himself for his injustice to
the tender little girl. She went into his
study, the morning of her visit to
Feather's Court. Jemima had told her,
with great pride, to go and show herself to
her ' par.' Jemima had clear-starched and
ironed a white frock with minute care,
had bought four yards of blue ribbon at
the general shop in the village, and had

tied up her sleeves and shining hair,
besides hanging her Httle silver locket
round her neck. Griselda had never
been so 'fine.' She went to her father,
blushing with the conscious feminine
pride of ' looking ni(je. ' The woman-babe
was innocently happy, till her
father, who was writing, looked up, and
at her.

That look she never forgot, any more
than she forgot what followed — a look
worse than the dragon's in her dream,
for it was dark, harsh, unfathomable,
expressing, as it did, the battle that was
raging in the man's soul. In another
man it might have meant hate ; but in
John Black it meant fierce struggle.

'Well, Griselda?' he said, awkwardly
leaning back in his chair.

The child paused a few moments, wondering

what It was which had changed
her father. Was it childish instinct ora
foreshadowing of the beautiful coming
woman's nature which made her forget
her own pain in sympathy for his ?

She went up to him and laid her little
hand upon his knee. Her great eloquent
eyes seemed to say, —

I am not afraid of you.' Then she
prattled about her spending to-day at
Fever's Court ' as she called it, ending
almost with awe — for Griselda
thought even a halfpenny a considerable
sum — ' the ribbon cost fourpence-halfpenny
a yard ! '

Ah said John Black, whose brain
was unsteady after the shock and his
sleepless night, ' pretty things cost a
lot, Griselda ! You cost me' — then he
checked himself — and, passing his hand

across his forehead, felt that his mind
was clouded to-day, and it behoved him
to be on guard.

Did you buy me, papa ? Did you pay '
Griselda paused to think of a large sum
'did you pay a whole shilling for me?'

John Black got up, laughed — what a
laugh ! — and said, ' Go, child, go ! ' Never
before had he spoken to his only little
daughter like that. She gave him one
yearning grieved look, and crept away.

Jemima, when the smart waggonette
drove up, and a portly nurse appeared at
the door, and pompously informed her
that she had ' called to fetch Mr Black's
little girl,' could not find Griselda. She
was not in the study, not with her mother.
At last she found her sitting on the floor
in the bedroom, pale, her big eyes
luminous with repressed tears.

Are you scared ? Would ye rather
not go, my lamb ? ' asked Jemima, thinking
the ' darlings was frightened at ofoine out
all alone.' But Griselda shook her head.
So Jemima tied on her Sunday straw
hat trimmed with watered-silk ribbon, and
fastened her little black silk cape, then
watched her drive off among the carriages
of smart nurses and children, like
some little stray bird that had flown by
mistake into a superior nest.

There were two girls, Lydia (aged
seven) and Mabel (five), their nurse
and nursemaid, and a handsome strong-limbed
baby-boy on his own nurse's lap.
This kindly countrywoman, who had
children of her own far away, made room
for the stranger, and, seeing that the
other nurses contemptuously scanned the
child's coarse clothes, and that Hal's

VOL. I. H

fashionably-dressed sisters looked askance
at her, she made the baby-boy smile and
coo and pat her face with his fresh dimpled
hands.

Feather's Court was a great castellated
grey-stone pile, with many mullions
windows. It stood in a large deer park,
and its turrets had for background those
purple hills Griselda had longed to see
when she sat gazing at them from her
chair in the orchard. There was a moat,
now dry and full of shrubs and ferns.
When Sir Hubert Romayne bought the
estate, eighteen months ago, to please
his rich wife, one of whose ancestors was
supposed to have built the house, he found
the neglected place — which had belonged
to a spendthrift — going to rack and ruin.
He spent a small fortune on repairs and
improvements. It was now as nearly

perfect as a rich gentleman's country-seat
could be, from the wrought-iron rates and
stone lodges at either side of the park
to the Italian garden that sloped upwards
behind the Court towards the heath-covered
hills.

Griselda felt as if she had become part
of a fairy tale. She stood on the steps
of the great building, gazing upwards with
astonishment. This was a palace indeed
a fitting home for yesterday's prince.

The little girls had run up the steps
and had disappeared into the great hall,
where statues gleamed white through the
long, narrow window panes. The nurses
were taking the parasols and wraps and
the picture-book, with which the languid
little Lydia beguiled the tedium of the
drives, out of the waggonette, while the
coachman leant back and indulged in such

complimentary badinage as he dared with
Mrs Walters, the stout pompous nurse,
who was a power in the kitchen-regions
of Feather's Court.

Meanwhile, ' baby's nurse,' as she was
called, bethought herself of the child with
the up-turned wondering gaze. Had she
been suddenly gifted with second-sight —
had she known how, when, and in what
manner this roughly-clad little maid would
share in the weal and woe of the important
family she served — she might have been
more deferential in her treatment of Gris-ella,
but she would scarcely have been so
spontaneously, genuinely warm-hearted.

Look here, Mrs Walters,' she said
impatiently, turning round, the baby
in her arms. ' What's to be done with
this good little soul ? Is she to go to-her
ladyship ? '

Oh, dear me. no ! ' said Mrs Walters,
coming panting up the wide steps. ' My
lady to be bothered by a parcel of children
indeed ! She had better go straight to
the nursery, and Mary '11 look her out
some old toys to play with.'

Now, a certain slumbering resentment
in the baby's foster-mother against the
autocrat of the nurseries was suddenly
wakened into active life by Mrs Walters'
words. She flashed a look at
her from her fine black eyes, then
she said to Griselda, —

You come along with me, my dear.'

Griselda put her little hand into
the nurse's. They went up a wide,
shallow staircase between banks of
rare hothouse plants, then along a
dimly-lighted corridor, where fleecy rugs
were spread before closed doors, and

where there were cabinets and tables
full of china and curiosities from
foreign lands, till they came to an
alcove, where the nurse pushed aside
a curtain, and, after someone within
had called out, ' Come in,' in reply
to her knock at the door it concealed,
pushed the door open, and Griselda
found herself in a bright room all
flowery chintz, gilding, and mirrors,
where a lady was writing at a fanciful
escritoire near one of the windows.

I have brought little Miss Black
to see you, my lady.'

*0h!' Lady Romayne, a stout, florid,
but good-looking woman, glanced up,
concealing her annoyance at ' Porter's
taking such a liberty,' for this foster-mother
of her second son's must not
be annoyed. Even Sir Hubert nodded

to her when he met her, and praised
his boy, and hoped she had good news
of her children, et-caetera.

Go and speak to her ladyship, my
dear.' said the nurse.

Griselda went across to Lady Romayne,
and lifted her face to be
kissed. Lady Romayne, slightly taken
aback by ' the little creature's coolness,'
just touched her forehead with
her lips, when she was still further
astonished by the child's asking if
she were Hal's mamma '^

What do you know about Hal '^.'
she asked, thinking there was something
eerie-looking about those deep,
dark eyes and that pale, golden hair.

He came to the orchard yesterday.'
Griselda tried to speak very
plainly, without lisping, as her mother

taught her to do. ' Is he here?' — looking
round.

Hal Is out riding,' said Lady Romayne.
' But, if you go to the nursery,
they will give you some nice
toys to play with. Ask Miss Lydia
to let her play with the doll's house,
Porter, or Miss Mabel will lend hera
doll.'

Lady Romayne turned to her writing,
thinking somewhat hardly of the Vicar
of Crowsfoot for his child's ' want of
manner.' ' Dressing her like that, too !
Those men who are all philanthropy,
and who pet up and spoil the labouring
population, are just those who
neglect the duties that lie at their
very doors,' thought her ladyship severely,
thinking that next time she
was asked to subscribe to the Crows-foot

school she would tell that Mr
Black what she thought of him.

Meanwhile, Griselda went to the
day nursery — a huge lofty room in
the new part of Feather's Court —
which had large windows overlooking
the marble terraces and bright flowerbeds,
and where there were gay pictures
and a rocking-horse, and bears
that ran about when they were wound
up, and all sorts of expensive toys
which had amused the children on
one or two occasions, but which were
discarded with disgust by them on the
third.

But when it was suggested to Lydia,
who was lying supine on the soft
carpet, seemingly trying to bore holes
in it with her shoe - heels, that she
should show the visitor her doll's

house, she gave a wild Indian yell,
and had to be pacified. And when
Mabel, the round-faced and amiable one
of the two girls, brought her magnificent
wax doll, which had as many fine
clothes as Lady Romayne herself, and
laid it in Griselda's lap, Griselda shook
her head.

It was too 'grand' — she felt she could
not play with such a wonderful creature
that, if she did, that pink waxen
forehead might pucker into a frown,
and those blue glass eyes, with the real
eyelashes, flash sudden anger at her.

So she sat with her hands in her lap,
watching the nursemaid brushing the
girls' hair and putting on gossamer
lace and muslin pinafores through the
open door leading to the night-nurseries,
and listening to the nurses' talk.

'Where is she going to have her
dinner ? ' asked the baby's nurse.

Here, with us, of course,' said the
head-nurse, just as the footman who
attended upon the nurses made his appearance
to ' lay the cloth.' ' She can't
go down, with Sir Hubert and all there
dressed like that.'

Griselda had heard and understood,
and her face had flushed — just when a
boyish voice said, 'Halloa! There you
are ! ' — and Hal walked straight up to
her.

'Come along down!' he went on,
taking her hand. 'What!' — for Mrs
Walters came bustling up to prevent
him — ' going to stop up here ? Stuff
and nonsense ! I am going to look
after her. Don't any of you trouble
your heads about her.'

*But, Master Hal' — the fat nurse's
tone was conciliatory, for the son and
heir of the Romayne's was not to be
trifled with, and it was as much as any
servant's place was worth to interfere
with him — 'she hasn't brought her pinafore.'


Here — Mary ! ' Hal unceremoniously
took Griselda to the open door and
told Mary to * lend her some of Mabel's
things.' So Griselda went from the
nursery in a pretty muslin overtures,
escorted by the eldest son, who, looking
critically at the broad blue sash Mary
had tied round her waist, called out to
ask why they hadn't put her on some
better ties.

Because she wouldn't have them,
Master Hal,' said the nursemaid spitefully.


Jemima bought the ribbon ; it cost
fourpence - halfpenny a yard,' said Gris-ella,
looking up with big eyes at Hal.
He looked more splendid to-day, she
thought, even than yesterday. He was
dressed in black velvet, with glittering
steel buttons.

How are those cads, your brothers ? *
asked Hal, with an air of lofty protection,
as they went downstairs, he
leading Griselda by the hand. ' Have
they tried to hurt you ? '

Griselda shook her head. ' What are
cads ? ' she said, feeling that the word
was disparaging, and that, however
roughly her brothers treated her, she
must defend them, even in this exalted
atmosphere.

Oh, I don't know ! ' said Hal carelessly.
Then he opened the diningroom

door, where Sir Hubert, Lady
Romayne, the two elder little girls, the
tutor, and the governess were at luncheon,
and led her straight up to his
father, saying, ' Mr Black's daughter —
papa, Griselda.'

'Well, you are a pretty little maid,
with a pretty name!' said Sir Hubert
kindly. He was a stout man, slightly
bald, very well-meaning and practical,
although not clever. His weaknesses
were his fatuous admiration of his wife,
who ruled him — and of his eldest son,
who ruled her.

'Just let her sit by you, pa, and see
that she eats something, will you ? ' asked
Hal coolly, walking off to his seat by
his mother. ' I think I shall take her
round the place after luncheon,' he continued,
as the men-servants hastened to

offer to him his favourite entries. ' Beer,
Williams, please ! I promised her mother
to look after her, you know. What dye
call these things ? Quenelles ? Take
them away. Mother, that cook of yours
gets worse and worse. She'll give us
nothing to eat presently. I wish you'd
get a man. Towered says he can't eat
anything cooked by a woman.'

My dear boy, Towered's father is
a duke!' said Sir Herbert, smiling,
for, strange to say, he appeared to like
his little son of barely eleven to talk
like an airy young man of twenty or
more. ' By the way, my dear, isn't this
the heroine of the snowstorm story you
were telling me the other day ? '

Lady Romayne assenting, he looked
at Griselda with more interest, and asked
her if she had any brothers and sisters.

*Two — brokers said Griselda. Then
almost before she knew what she was
saying, she added emphatically, ' Drovers,
not cads.'

'Not what?' said Sir Hubert, startled,
while Hal's tutor — a young Bea., whose
tutorship to this scion of an ancient
house was sweetened by a heavy salary
looked meaningly at his pupil.

Oh, I know what she means ! ' said
Griselda's prince, by no means abashed.
I called 'em that. So they are ; they
threatened to hang her or something.'

To wring my neck,' interrupted
Griselda.

'Well, to hang you or to wring your
neck — it comes to the same thing! I
threatened to give 'em a thrashing.'

Harry says you and Tom'll have to
fight properly with swords father's got,*

went on Griselda ; while the two girls
looked wonderingly at this curious outspoken
and fearless young person, and
Lady Romayne compressed her lips and
looked unutterable things.

What a warlike personage ! ' said Sir
Hubert, amused. ' It ought to suit you,
Hal. But, Withers' — to the tutor— * you'll
have to see they play fair.'

Harry says he's got to see they pray
fair,' said Griselda. But Lady Romayne
told her that little girls ought to be seen
and not heard. She could not prevent Hal
from taking Griselda about the gardens
afterwards, showing her the horses and
dogs, and getting her strawberries and
peaches from the hothouses. But she
determined to do better, in her human
short-sightedness, for, if she could have
foreseen the future, she would have almost

VOL. I. I

rather have broken the children's acquaintance
roughly — cruelly, if need be.
She resolved to do what she could to
make Griselda a fit companion for her
children. No sooner was this good
resolution formed than she began to put
it into practice.

Hubert, we must really try to reclaim
that little heathen,' she said to her
husband, after Griselda had driven off
home with the escort of the nursemaid
Mary, laden with fruit and flowers for
her mother, ordered by Hal.

My dear, she is a most amusing little
creature, I am sure,' said the good-natured
baronet.

She has a soul to be saved.'

Well, I really think Black is the person
to see to that,' said Sir Hubert.

He looks so far abroad in that parish

of his, he is always worrying one about
that he doesn't see what is going on
just under his very nose,' said Lady
Romayne severely. ' I am sure that
household must be something quite
shocking, with the wife an invalid, and
no one to look after it.' Then she proposed
her really kind idea — to offer Mr
Black teaching from her own governess
for Griselda two or three times weekly.

I should send Miss Lone over to
Crowsfoot in the waggonette, and pay
her something extra,' she added.

My dear, would it not be much simpler
to have the child here ? ' suggested Sir
Hubert.

Lady Romayne could not hear of that,
she said, till the child was ' less of a
savage.' So she had an interview in the
schoolroom with the meek Miss Long,

who was always ready to further her
patroness's views, and a day or two later
she wrote to the Vicar of Crowsfoot, —

Dear Mr Black, — You must excuse
my writing to you on a somewhat delicate
subject ; but, as a mother, who naturally
feels and sees matters connected with
children which would escape the notice of
any man, however well-intentioned, I feel
it my duty to do so.

It really grieved me to see so nice a
child as your little daughter so absolutely
neglected and entirely wild ; and I felt it
my duty, in her temporarily motherless
condition, to consider what could be done
for her. A plan occurred to me to lend
you my governess, Miss Long, for some
hours each week. We will send her to
you, and the carriage can be put up at the

'' Lion ' while the lessons are given. With
kind wishes, — Yours sincerely,

Gertrude Romayne.'

Now Lady Romayne wrote that letter
in all good faith — in fact, with a tinge of
the noble satisfied feeling she had when
sending a large donation to a missionary
fund, or putting herself out by lending her
handsome drawing-room in town for some
meeting connected with the conversion of
the heathen.

If she could have seen John Black, and
could have known his feelings when he
received it, she would have been aghast.
It is true that the letter arrived, as such
letters frequently will, at the most inopportune
moment — on the very morning of
the day when the great London physician,
Sir Geoffrey Boole, was to visit Crowsfoot

Vicarage and consult with Doctor Mayne on
the state of health of the Vicar's dear wife.

John Black had passed a sleepless nighty
and Mrs Black was much worse.

Two or three times during that warm
starlit spring night, when the plants
seemed poised in sleep in the genial
darkened atmosphere, and the air that
came in through the open windows was
laden with the heavy perfume of the
flowers in the garden-beds and the
chestnut-blooms in the fields, a yellow
waxen pallor had spread itself upon
Evelyn's calm restful face, and she had
given that sigh — a mixture of moan and
sob — which the Vicar had so often heard
coming from dying lips.

How could he sleep ? He sat watching
her, growing more miserable, more hopeless,
each minute. Then in the mornings

after he and Jemima had succeeded In
rallying her from the faintness that ensued
upon her awakening, and those
sweet blue eyes had looked fondly into
his once more, he went, staggering with
mental and physical exhaustion, into his
study, to find that letter.

It seemed an aggravated insult to the
unhappy man then, there, at that moment.
He just read it through, and, letting it
drop from his hand upon the floor, he
leant his tired head upon his arms with a
stifled sob.

From the very first that child has been
our curse ! ' he thought of poor helpless
little Griselda. Poor little maiden, born
in the snow, born into the coldest of the
cold moods of the changeful world !

Then came a sweet little voice at his
elbow, ' Papa, I have brought your coffee ! *

and, looking up, there stood Griselda holding
a little tray with a cup of steaming,
fragrant coffee, and with a world of love
and sympathy in her tearful eyes. For,
baby that she was, she knew what Jemima's
abrupt ' much worse,' when speaking of
her mother, meant ; and her poor little
heart seemed to hurt her at every throb —
she felt so very sad.

Her dear, beautiful mother — and that
father, who seemed to Griselda so great
and noble and grand that her young mind
did not place him among men at all — if
she could have been interrogated, it would
have been found that she ranked him
above and beyond ' every one in the
world ' — her own little expression.

If he had seemed stern the other day,
his expression this morning was severity
itself

He took the cup and put it aside without
a word. Then he questioned her
closely, bitterly. What had she done —
what had she said, that day at Feather's
Court, to bring about this, which he inwardly
called * that woman's insolence.'

He shattered nothings from Griselda's
replies. Many a child not yet six years
old would have been frightened into incoherent
acknowledgments, into sobs and
tears. But Griselda stood opposite her
father, firm, composed, only a deep grief
in those wonderful eyes which looked
straight into his.

In any but this hard, wild mood, brought
about by mental torture, that look of silent
reproach would have gone straight to his
heart. As it was, it maddened him. He
felt suddenly that he had better be out
and away ; if he stayed much longer herein

his suspense and misery, he might be
betrayed into some words or actions he
would repent.

Looking at his watch, he saw that,
if he walked to the station, a
mile and a half distant, he would be
just in time to meet Sir Geoffrey Boole.

Doctor Mayne was to meet the great
man and to drive him to Crowsfoot
Vicarage. But the vicar felt that
it would be quite as well to be there
himself.

He rose abruptly and left Griselda.

The child stood there cold, miserable,
suffocated with a new emotion
she did not understand. Then she
crept away upstairs to her mother's
room.

Here it seemed so different, — so
peaceful !

Mrs Black, white as one of the
June Hies whose green buds were
beginning to swell upon their tall
stems in the garden below, lay in
her bed. Jemima had ' tidied ' the
pretty room, which was always fresh
and neat, with its white dimity hangings.
Some bird was singing on a
tree outside. The invalid was drifting
into a drowsy, dreamy content. She
just unclosed her eyes, smiled at her
fair-haired little child, and made a
weak gesture which Griselda knew
meant that she should come and
lie down near her mother, as she
had so often lain before.

She clambered upon the bed, and
creeping close to the still form, nestled
against it. She had learned not to
talk while mother * was resting.' So

she lay quietly there, feeling an indescribable
comfort from her nearness to
her gentle, loving mother.

Then Mrs Black, dimly feeling some
thought arise in her gradually clouding
mind, groped mentally among the soft
calming shadows, and half unconsciously
spoke it.

Darling — Griselda,' she dreamily said.
Tell — Hal — little Hal Romayne — to
remember — his promise.'

Then her eyelids drooped ; she ebbed
slowly — deliciously onward — towards the
peace, the rest — where no human
thought, no human word, can reach.
Griselda's ' Yes, mamma,' seemed floating
about somewhere. But she had
ridded herself of that last fragment of
earthly thought.

And Griselda fell asleep also.

HE vicar found Doctor Mayne
talking to the station-master
on the empty, breezy platform.


Hullo ! you here ? ' said the doctor,
to whom this was a field day. Deeply
sorry as he was for the Blacks, he
could not help feeling excited, even
elated, at the prospect of a consultation
with the great Sir Geoffrey.
Well, old man, it's a lucky thing
I brought the four-wheeler! If I
hadn't listened to Mrs Mayne, who

was in a consternation at the idea
of Sir Geoffrey being fetched in a
gig, you'd have had to foot it back
through the fields. What's that —
train signalled ? By Jove, it is ! Here
she comes !

The little black serpent was winding
round a corner, heralded by the
puffing white steam. There was a
bell-ringing and a general excitement
Two or three men in smock - frocks,
with bundles, stood by, open - eyed
and open - mouthed, as the stationmaster,
whose brisk eye had caught
sight of a portly male passenger in
one of the two first-class compartments,
rushed full tilt at the door and
opened it.

How are ye, doctor — Doctor Mann,
did ye say? How are ye?'

The great physician descended affably,
if a trifle wearily, from the stuffy
carriage where he had spent a couple
of hours reading, and wondering why
respectable clergymen's wives couldn't
contrive to have these desperate illnesses
nearer town. Sir Geoffrey was
one of those distinguished and prominent
personages who can afford to
be amiable on all occasions.

Small talk, and much obsequious
attention on the part of the stationmaster
and Doctor Mayne, and the
doctor's mare was trotting briskly
towards Crowsfoot, the doctor driving
her, Sir Geoffrey seated on his left,
and the Vicar trying to crouch himself
in the back seat by almost doubling
up his long legs.

What a pretty little place ! ' condescendingly

observed the great man ashe
alighted at the Vicarage door. ' Ah,
my dear sir ' — to the vicar — ' you
country clergymen do not half appreciate
your surroundings. How you
can study here ! '

'How you can die — slowly — here,
rather,' said John Black, almost fiercely.
At which Doctor Mayne gave Sir
Geoffrey a respectful but significant
look ; and the authority on the subject
of disease glanced critically at the Vicar,
who in his eyes had suddenly become
a patient — a subject — therefore an
entity.

I will go up and prepare her for
your visit,' said John uneasily, after
he had conducted Sir Geoffrey into
the ' parlour,' which, till so very lately,
had been Evelyn's sitting-room. ' She

has no idea of any danger — has no
idea that I asked you to see her.'

Break it to her gently, my dear
sir, but quite as a matter of course,'
said Sir Geoffrey, who had assumed
his spectacles, and was, as it were,
'in full uniform.' * Be as short and
as practical as possible.'

The Vicar went upstairs. He
opened his darling's door with slow,
cautious nicety. Then he paused ;
she was evidently asleep, with Griselda
held close to her breast. The two
faces were sweet, pale, peaceful, and
strangely alike. As he stood there,
gazing at the mother who had
gathered her child so closely to her
heart before she fell asleep, a sudden
reproach smote him. He had dared
almost to hate that daughter of his

VOL. I. K

whose birth had brought about her
mother's suffering ; and there, now,
he saw and realised that this child
was very bone of his beloved wife's
bone, flesh of her flesh.

He turned, struck by remorse, and
went softly downstairs.

She — and Griselda — are both asleep,'
he said, with a pitiful, appealing glance
at Sir Geoffrey.

After some discussion, it was agreed
that Sir Geoffrey and Doctor Mayne
should visit their patient while in this
pleasant slumber.

When she wakes, the sight of me
will make it all right,' confidently said
Doctor Mayne. Then, as they went
upstairs, he and his superior, he told
Sir Geoffrey that this was quite the best
thing that could have happened.

She is intensely nervous,' he said ;
and he is wound up, through his
anxiety, to such a pitch, that the more
he is kept out of it all the better.'

He turned the handle softly. There
lay the two, the sleeping mother and
the sleeping child.

Asleep '> '

Sir Geoffrey said that one word.
Then he looked at Doctor Mayne, and
Doctor Mayne at him.

Yes, asleep — asleep !

John Black waited impatiently below.
How slow they were — how quiet! The
moments seemed hours to his racked
mind. Then he heard ponderous footsteps
cross the floor above, and comedown
the stairs cautiously, heavily.
One of them coming down to fetch
him — or what ? He started to his

feet as Doctor Mayne came into the
room, carrying Griselda, asleep.

The doctor's ruddy face was discomposed.
His colour came and went
unhealthy. His voice was hoarse, and
trembled as he said, —

You must bear up, my friend.'

Then he sat down and called his
attention to the pale little child. ' She
is not strong,' he said ; ^ poor little
darling ; your wife's legacy to you ! '

Then he turned away his head,
dreading to see the effect of his words.
He knew this old, oft-repeated scene
in life's drama so far too well. Some
would fall down, shrieking. Others
would curse and rave, and afterwards
would not guess how they had blasphemed
Death, the thief who had
robbed them of their treasures. Asa

rule, the weak women bore their
blows the best, because they had not
the instinct to fight and evade them,
and a mental shock knocked them
down and disabled them at once.

She is dead ? ' said John Black,
with perfect composure.

The doctor looked round in fear.
But the Vicar, though pale with an
ugly leaden pallor, seemed to hear his
'' Yes ' followed by the assurance that
her precious soul must have fled —
quietly, peacefully, as a bird starts on
its homeward flight — as if it were some
ordinary acquiescence.

I will go upstairs ; you had better
come too,' he said. Then he took a
cushion from a chair, arranged it upon
Mrs Black's sofa, and, taking the
sleeping child from Doctor Mayne with

minute care, placed her there, and
covered her with the knitted rug"
which had so often covered her dead
mother.

Then he led the ways and joined Sir
Geoffrey, who was awaiting him, and
who greeted him with genuine sympathy.
Looking at that pale, dead
beauty, the celebrated physician had
felt that this man's loss was great
indeed.

Both doctors, by a common human
instinct, walked away and conversed in
whispers at the window, while John
Black took his first look at his wife —
in death.

What he felt — what he thought, ashe
kissed the half-opened eyelids close
upon those lovely eyes, which would
never gaze into his with deep, confiding

love again — was no one's — no human
beinor's right to know. It was not
long before he joined the two doctors,
and, Inviting them to remain for a
while In the parlour — Evelyn's parlour
went to break the news to Jemima
and to the boys.

/I like to see pluck,' said Sir Geoffrey,
as Doctor Mayne was driving
him back to the station an hour afterwards.
' 1 like to see character. Now,
there was character In the way that
man took his loss. He Is a fellow with
a great deal In him, and, under favourable
circumstances, should make his
mark in the world.'

But the little Crowsfoot doctor —
who, although he had not written
scientific works, or had ' made his

name, ' had a natural shrewd insight
into human nature born of much
practice — shook his head.

You don't know John Black,' he
said. Then he told Sir Geoffrey all
he himself knew of the Vicar's peculiar
position in life. ' Now, if he had
stormed and raved — if his brain had
given way — I should be full of hope
for him. But he is too strong, that is
the fact — too strong. He fights fate ;
and when once a man begins to do that
well, he is no longer fit to help his
fellow-creatures, for it will take all his
time, and all his energy, and all his spirit,
and in the long run he must be worsted.'

True,' said Sir Geoffrey. ' But I
should hope that that very beautiful
little girl would be a softening influence
in his life.'

Let us hope so,' said Doctor Mayne
doubtfully. ' But, in my poor opinion,
we may be said to have lost our
genial, whole-hearted Vicar. The John
Black I have walked hand - in - hand
with — who has been, as it were, a living
storehouse of help, and sympathy, and
counsel, and strength — will be buried
in his wife's grave. The man I have
seen to-day — well, I would rather not
think of what that man, with his brain-power,
in his position, might become.'

It was a pleasant, drowsy summer afternoon.
Hot sunshine was tempered by a
fresh breeze, that swayed the leafy boughs
in the churchyard, and, waving the long
grass upon the green graves, made the
sturdy ivy-leaves that clung to the headstones
or railings shiver and tremble.

Crowsfoot Church, the grey - stone
edifice which the Vicar had changed
from a tumble-down, whitewash-smeared
building into a comely little place of
prayer, stood on a slope above the
Vicarage — above the village. The
graves that lay in rows about the
churchyard were fanned by summer winds
and beaten upon by winter storms.

The turf laid on Mrs Black's grave
was green, after the rain of many days.
The wreaths and nosegays sent by
sympathising parishioners — whose hearts
were full of gratitude to John Black,
their constant friend, as well as their
hard-working pastor — had been beaten
into masses of light-brown pulp, and
had been swept oft, and cast upon a
growing heap of dead leaves in the
churchyard corner by the sexton.

The grave was close to the path.
Mrs Black, who had loved life and
the living, had once said to her husband
in their early marriage days,
If I die before you, John, don't
have me put away in a damp corner,
where no one goes ; at least, let me
feel the tread of footsteps, and hear
human voices.'

And in the midst of his stony dry-eyed
anguish — smiling a grim smile of
unbelief in the idea that the soulless,
senseless clay could knov/ or feel —
the Vicar remembered his wife's curious
fancy, and chose her grave where the
villagers must pass each Sunday as they
went to church.

The first Sunday there were little
groups of silent mourners. He saw
them — once more smiling that crude,

repellent smile. * I gave them two or
three Sundays at the utmost,' he said
to himself. On the fourth Sunday he
looked out from the vestry window.
He watched them go down that path
in twos or threes. He saw them pass
the grave. Some went carelessly by ;
a few cast a cursory glance that way.
One or two only stayed a second,
making some remark, then walked
hastily on. He did not blame them ;
but his heart was hardening. He went
that night by moonlight to the place
where the cold body that had contained
the spirit he had loved lay hidden away.
He tried to feel that Evelyn, or part of
what had been Evelyn, was there. He
could not. He went home, feeling
more petrified than ever.

Others felt the change in him also.

A worthy young couple in the village
lost their only child — a bright, vigorous
little lad. He died of rapid convulsions
in his mother's arms. Formerly the
Vicar would have been overflowing with
sympathy. Now he strode in, and
whatever he found to say aggravated
the grief of the bereaved parents. He
had no gentle reminders of the beautiful
death-tales in the Gospel to give. He
did not talk of the slightness and shortness
of life till the aching hearts of the
mourners were solaced, as he used todo.
He told a few harsh truths — that
these things were — therefore they must
be accepted. ' It was hard to kick
against the pricks,' and the sooner they
stifled their grief, and found comfort in
active life and forgetfulness, the better
for them.

The poor young parents looked
blankly at one another after he had
gone. Then the young mother flung
herself into her husband's arms, and,
in weeping out her heart's grief in his
arms, those sceptical hard sayings flew
harmlessly over her poor little head —
brainless, perhaps, but a sound auxiliary
in her honest, every-day life.

Meanwhile, Evelyn Black's chief mourner
was the little daughter who had lain
on her breast when she gave back her
sweet life to Heaven.

Griselda had kissed her mother's coffin.
She had watched it carried out of the
house under the silk and velvet pall, her
father, Tom, and Harry, following. She
had sat watching while Jemima, with
swollen eyes and heaving chest, had arranged
her mother's room to look as

little like it was wont to look as possible.
Then, feeling as if home were
removed to the churchyard, as it were,
she had stolen off to her mother's grave.

That earth-mound was not to her the
mere mound of earth it was to others.
The very first time she saw it, it seemed
familiar and natural. When she crouched
by it, and clasped the rough lumps of
clay with her little arms, she was comforted.
Perhaps her dear mother had
never seemed so much her own mother
as she did buried down there and left
all alone.

Mother, dear,' she whispered, her soft
lips close to the holes in the earth, ' I
am here — Griselda.' Then she would
stick a row of flowers from the Vicarage
garden along the head of the grave, and
vater them with water she brought in

the little green watering-can her mother
gave her on her last birthday.

On this bright June afternoon she had
stolen out ; she had brought two little
pots of musk the old gardener had given
her, and had nestled them against the
grave. Then she sat crouched up near
to them, sheltered from the wind by a
tall head-stone close by, and began to
knit a garter for Harry, whose stockings
were always coming down.

'You and I'll have to be mother to
those boys now ; it'll be all the mother
they're likely to get,' Jemima had said to
Griselda, soon after her mistress's death.
And Griselda had thought a good deal
about that already. She pitied ' the
boys,' and ran about to fetch things for
them, and put her jam on Harry's plate
when he was not looking, and stole upstairs

and picked up Tom's clothes, which
he had a trick of flinging about the room,
to save him a scolding from Jemima. She
never once thought that it was she herself
who had suffered the greatest loss.

As for her father, she had hardly dared
think of him, much less look at or speak
to the gaunt haggard man who crept in
and out of the house like a black shadow
of his former self.

She only thought of him here — at the
grave. She longed to be grown up, a
woman — to talk to her father and make
him laugh, as her mother used to do.
It was not to be expected that a little
child like she was could be anything buta
trouble.

She was thinking hard, her baby lips
pressed close together, her earnest eyes
riveted on the knitting her unaccustomed

VOL. I. L

fingers were struggling with, when Hal
Romayne came along the path towards
her.

He had ridden over twice since Mrs
Black's death — the first time with inquiries,
when Jemima, who had found
out something about that inopportune
letter of Lady Romayne's, only half
opened the street door, and sent him off
as quickly as possible ; the second time
with a letter of condolence, one day when
Griselda happened to be spending the
day with Mrs Mayne, the doctor's wife.

To-day he had dressed in black out
of compliment to Griselda, and looked
slightly awe-stricken as he went to seek
his little friend at her mother's grave,
according to Jemima's recommendation.
Death had not been brought before him
until now ; and he had a lively remembrance

of the beautiful woman on the
sofa in the Vicarage parlour, who talked
to him with such winning seriousness.

They had a French picture, Les Deux
Orp/ielines, in one of the drawing-rooms
at Feathers Court, and he had unconsciously
expected to see Griselda
with her tearful eyes lifted to the sky,
after the manner of those dismal lite
beings. So that when Griselda, hearing
a footstep, looked up, dropped her
work, and ran to meet him with a joyous
' Oh, Hal ! ' he felt decidedly relieved,
although he tacitly resisted when
she pulled him towards the grave, and
he suggested going back to the Vicarage.

But you must come to the grave,*
she insisted. ' Besides, mother told me
to tell you something.'

But she is not there,' said Hal, looking

askance at the mound. * Don't you
know she is far away — in heaven ? '

Heaven is not far away,' said Gris-ella
decidedly. ' It is just over the tops
of the trees, that's all.'

Not the heaven where the angels
are,' said Hal ; ' that is ever so far off.'

There are not two heavens,' said
Griselda. ' And up there, where the
birds fly and the larks go up singing,
isn't earth, so it must be heaven.'

'But — ' began Hal. Then he forgot
what he meant to say — in fact, he
was somewhat puzzled how to teach
Griselda that her notions were wrong,
so he went on, ' What was it your
mother said about me ? '

It was just before she went to sleep
for good,' said Griselda, kneeling down,
her little hand laid protecting upon the

grave, and her great violet eyes lit up
by the recollection. * She said, " Tell
Hal Romayne to remember his promise"'

Hal was but a young boy, and he was
sensitive. This message from the grave,
as it seemed to him, was unnerving.
For a moment he was scared — what
promise — when — how — where made,
and to whom ? Then suddenly it all
came back to him — the day he went first
to the Vicarage, his visit to the orchard,
Griselda's introduction of him to her
mother, and her pleading voice as she
confided little Griselda to his care. He
had promised the dead woman who lay
in that grave to take care of her child ;
and in boyish impetuosity he said to
himself, ' And they may say what they
like, but I'll do it too.'

He looked down at the fair little creature,

who was wonderingly watching the
changing, varied expressions as they flitted
across * her prince's' handsome face,
with a new interest and tenderness. She
belonged to him in some way, not yet
defined ; he had pledged his word that
she should do so.

Griselda,' he said, forgetting his awe
of graves and the dead in this new
solemnity, and kneeling down beside
her, ' do you know I came to-day to
tell you that I am going away — I am
going to school ? '

Oh, dear ! ' said Griselda, distressed.
And I thought you would come again
very soon.'

So I will, in the holidays,' said HaL
Then he told her how he must go to
school, to learn to be a man. ' You
can't spend all your days with girls and

women, you know,' he added, with a
tinge of disdain when alluding to her
sex, which impressed Griselda more
than any words would have done with
the supremacy and glory of manhood.
If I grew up a molly-coddle, I shouldn't
be fit to take care of you. And I am
going to.'

He rose and drew a long breath.
Griselda gazed up at him with round,
admiring eyes. He looked a handsome
lad, with his curly head thrown back ;
so slim and straight, too, in his black
velvet suit.

I shall marry you when I grow up,'
he said, with a feeling that he had to
take a plunge, and the sooner it was
over the better. ' What do you think
of that ? '

Griselda shook her head.

They wouldn't let you,' she replied.
Besides, if they did, I couldn't leave
father

Oh, I shall be able to look after
him!' said Hal, with a spice of contempt.
Lady Romayne had not inveighed
against Mr Black's culpable
neglect of his children, within earshot
of her precocious son, without effect.

Would you marry him too ? ' asked
Griselda, to whom marriage was another
word for home and companionship.

I can't tell what I shall do. It is
such a long time off,' said Hal loftily.
I shouldn't have told you 1 meant to
marry you, only I thought it might be
something for you to look forward to,
if * those boys are rude, or you feel
lonely, or anything.'

He knelt down again, and took her

little hand. She was looking serious,
half-pleased, half-doubtful. If she had
appeared overwhelmed by Hal's magnificent
statement, he would not have
liked her half so much as he did at
that moment, when he found that, this
simple, almost rustic, little maiden was
not so easily dazzled and surprised out
of the even tenor of her way, although
she admired him, he knew, as much as,
if not more than, she had ever admired
anything throughout her little life.

You must give me something to
keep,' he said — 'something of yours.'

I haven't anything,' she said. She
was dressed in a plain black frock, and
in an old white pinafore. She wore the
same blue sun-bonnet as when he first
saw her. It was not mourning, but
Jemima had not thought well to ask

her master for money to buy another.
I haven't anything", really,' she repeated
earnestly. Then she remembered
her little silver locket which
Jemima kept in a top drawer in her
room. But Hal would not take this
solitary jewel of his lady-love's. He
would have a spray of musk. He took
out his russia-leather purse, and she
dropped the tiny green sprig with the
yellow flower into one of its many
compartments.

Now I must give you something,'
he said, as he replaced the purse in his
breast-pocket. * It wouldn't be fair to
the governor to give you my watch ;
he had my monogram put upon it in
diamonds ' — taking out his watch, and
showing the glittering case to the astonished
Griselda. * You can't have the

seal either — it's a signet — but you can
have this.'

He detached the seal and watch from
his chain, and tossed the gold cable into
her lap.

She did not want to take it. She
was distressed. But he insisted, and
she allowed him to take her home to
the Vicarage, holding her promise that
she would not show that watch - chain
to anyone — not even to Jemima.

If you do, there'll be the deuce and
all to pay,' he assured her — a threat
which made her tremble, for, in her
ignorance of ' the deuce and all,' she
imagined a crew of hobgoblins pursuing
and haunting her for this undefined but
evidently terrible reckoning.

I won't,' she assured him sturdily, just
as they carne in sight of the Feathers

Court groom walking Hal's new roan pony
up and down. ' But you'll come in ? '

No, ' said Hal, with a qualm of
conscience, although he was firmly
persuaded of his own rectitude, if not
generosity. ' No ; I don't think I will
to-day.'

Then he asked her to write to him
from time to time. But she could only
print a little bit, and that would scarcely
do. He suggested Jemima for a scribe.
But, according to Griselda, Jemima could
only ' make crosses.'

Never mind ; I know what to do,'
were Hal's final words, as, carefully refraining
from the kiss which on a former
occasion had cost him much chagrin,
he mounted his pony ; and he rode
straight away to Doctor Mayne's house,
at the further end of the village.

Can I see Mrs Mayne, if you
please ? ' he asked of the buxom housemaid
who appeared in answer to his
minor.

I will see, sir,' she said, reddening as
she recognised ' little Master Romaine
And she sped away, returning almost
immediately to say, * Would you walk
this way, if you please, sir ? '

Hal was ushered into the doctors
dining-room, which was all red and
mahogany, with a faint odour of old
sherry and fruit and jessamine — there
was a climbing jessamine just outside,
where Mrs Mayne sat at work, piles of
fair, white linen on the table, on the
sofa — everywhere.

How do you do. Master Romayne ? '
Plump, comely, little Mrs Mayne was
just a trifle flattered by this unexpected

visit. ' I hope your dear mamma and
papa are quite well ? '

Hal assured her that they were, with
a preternatural gravity which he considered
appropriate to the occasion.

I have not come on account of the
family, Mrs Mayne,' he said, ' with the
grandeur of a young Hamlet,' as Mrs
Mayne afterwards described him. ' I
have come to you as the friend of poor
Mrs Black.'

'Oh, of course, certainly!' said Mrs
Mayne, almost as much surprised by
this mature talk from the young heir
of Feather's Court as if her favourite
tabby, who was blinking at her from
the white wool hearth rug, had suddenly
found human speech. ' But do have
some cake. Master Romayne, or a glass
of home-made wine.' Mrs Mayne hesitated

to offer such a boy claret or
sherry.

I thank you ; no replied Hal, copying
the manner of a well-known dean,
lately a visitor at the Court. ' I do
not eat between meals ; I thank you !
No, Mrs Mayne ; the truth is — can I
really trust you ? ' he went on, with a
sudden change to the manner of an
eager boy. Then, upon Mrs Mayne's
earnest assurance that he could, he told
his story — how he had made Mrs Black
a promise to look after Griselda, and
how she had sent him a reminder
from her death-bed.

And now I am going away to
school,' he went on ; ' and I want to
know how she gets on. She can't
write, you know, and she says that servant
of theirs can only make crosses,

so I thought perhaps you would write
to me now and then.'

Mrs Mayne, although somewhat
startled by this very ' grown-up ' little
boy's talk, undertook to do what she
could in the matter.

It was only after Hal had ridden off,
solemnly saluting her, that she began
to realise what this meant.

It was so strange, my dear, a boy
talking like that, that I forgot it would
be scarcely right to the parents, and
that I really ought not to do anything
of the sort,' she assured her husband
later on.

'My dear, the parents would only
laugh,' said her good-natured spouse,
who was hugely amused. ' I don't mean
poor Black ; there doesn't seem to bea
laugh left in him. But the Romans

why, they know they can afford to
give their son rope. Some years hence
he will have forgotten that poor little
maid.'

'Not he!' said Mrs Mayne warmly.
There's a good deal more in that lad
than you give him credit for, Thomas.'

Ah, well, I shall never be astonished
at anything that happens to that poor
little mite Griselda ! ' said the doctor.
If I were superstitious, I should have
all sorts of strange notions about her.
She has been the innocent cause of her
mother's death ; the innocent cause of
poor Black's wreck — for it is nothing
more nor less than a moral wreck — any
fool can see that. What is there surprising,
after this, that she should bewitch
a bov, and make him behave in

that curious way .^ Nothing could be
VOL. I. M

stranger than her birth — nothing ; and
I have heard and read that as people
are born so they go on through Hfe,
and so they die ; and, small though my
own poor personal experience is, it
points to the truth of that.'

Mrs Mayne sighed.

Poor child ! ' she said. ' I believe
that unlucky incident of being born in
the snow, in that barn, will stick to
her through life, and perhaps spoil it.'

It might, only there happens to be
such a thing as Providence,' said the
doctor dryly.

^^^^m.

T was ten years later ; early
autumn in a German cathedral
city. The broad Rhine flowed
between the busy towns — for the city was
divided, and linked by a curious bridge
of boats. The great tower of the unfinished
cathedral rose high above the
masses of quaint houses. It came upon
you as a surprise, a monster edifice decorated
with scaffolding, as you turned
some corner, after losing yourself in a
maze of narrow, winding streets. Hal
Romayne, now a slight, handsome young

man, about to come of age, was passing
through on his way to Switzerland
with Sir Hubert, Lady Romayne, and his
sisters. It was 'the girls" first trip,
Hal had been abroad twice before ; his
third visit bored him. He could not
understand how Mabel, the brighter of
the two girls, could ' gush ' over everything
— from the churches with their
tawdry chapels, to the old market-women
with their quaint caps and great
earrings, shouting and chattering amid
their piles of purple plums and yellow
apricots or green cabbages, under their
gay umbrellas. The noise and clatter
tired him. This morning he had left
the girls,' meekly attended by Sir
Hubert, whom they 'managed' — as the
languid Lydia termed their subjection
of their good-natured father — buying

rosaries, pictures, medals, as mementos,
and had returned to the hotel to ' moon
about ' by himself. Lady Romayne had
one for a drive. The courier was
bustling about, fussing over the arrangements
for their further journeying. Hal
felt the first symptoms of one of those
fits of end which he dreaded, and
which nothing would cure, because they
arose from overdoing the thing called
Pleasure — in fact, from satiety. He
threw open his window and leaned out.
Sailors were shouting as the slim-masted
crafts heaved on the river waves. Men
swarmed up and down the vessels'
sides, loading ; trophies were noisily clattering
about the rough stones of the
wharves. Then the steamer came puffing
in, and tourists, mostly English in
their eternal tweed suits and veiled hats

and serge costumes, came herding hastily
upon shore, rushing and crushing as
they would scarcely have cared to doat
home, followed by bloused porters
shouldering luggage.

It was vulgar. 'Those British tourists
are like a plague of locusts over the
face of the globe,' Hal disgustedly told
himself. Then he ill-temperedly seized
his hat and hurried out.

The narrow, untidy streets were quiet
now, in this city where the natives roseat
sunrise and went to bed while it was
still day. Wandering aimlessly, he came
upon the very side-door of the cathedral
where he had left his father and sisters
an hour or two ago. But the spot was
deserted ; the market was over. Only
the refuse scattered about the stones,
and a pile of empty baskets in a corner,.

remained of this morning's busy scene.
An old dog lay wearily under a little
image In a niche, as if he had sheltered
there from his tormentors, the boys.
As Hal came towards him, he half
opened his tired eyes and limped away.
There was a great sore on his lame
leg. Hal felt a choke in his throat at
the sight of the forlorn, ill-used creature.
He stooped and patted him, with kind
words. He felt he would have given
treble its price for a piece of meat for
that homeless mongrel who looked up
so abjectly Into his face. At that moment
a sad chant arose in the church, —

^ Agnus Dei, qui tolls peccant 7nundi, miserere

It was the choir rehearsing a requiem
mass which was to be given tomorrow
the requiem of a good priest who died
of malignant fever, caught from a sick

person to whom he had ministered. The
chant came floating out. Hal fel curiously
wretched, alone, as a Pariah among
his kind, who cared little for him, as he
cared little for them.

He held a commission in a 'swell'
regiment. He had gone into the army
full of military enthusiasm, to find that
to seek to study the science of war
was considered ' bad form,' and that the
only officers who deserved the name
were one or two conceited martinets,
who, being detested and scorned, did
more harm than good.

He would have embraced his profession
with ardour ; but he found it a
mere shadow. There was no substance
to embrace. Parade, drill, mess — this
was the life. The more dissipated and
reckless a fellow was, the more popular.

There was nothing between a watery
atheism and a fanatic sectarianism, which
was so Pharisaical that blasphemy seemed
sounder and more honest. In his own
words, he ' felt as if he had been flung
upon a dunghill,' an exaggerated sensation,
which Lady Romayne exerted whatever
influence she possessed to combat.

Because, my dear,' she said to her
husband in private, ' Hal is so impetuous
and excitable that he really must
have an occupation. Now, there are only
three professions for us unfortunates —
the bar, the church, and the army. Hal
has no taste for the law. There are
such riff-raff in the church now — that it
ranks very low in my estimation. But
while commissions are to be bought, and
they keep up the mess, we shall at least
have officers who are pubic-school men.'

So Hal Romayne attended his sovereign's
levee as a commissioned officer
and, as heir to an old as well as a
rich baronetcy, was so pestered with
invitations to dinners, balls, and society
entertainments of every description, that,
in his own words, * one season sickened
him of the lot'

Yes, that promised to be his bane in
life — his capacity to be easily sickened.
He found the verb 'to loathe' far easier
to conjugate than the verb ' to love.'
Yet here he was nearer a feeling of
love than he had been for years, and
that love for a poor ugly, wounded old
dog.

He longed — he could not tell why or
wherefore — to take that poor canine
cripple tenderly in his arms, and carry
it into the church. He stood looking

at the dog, and listening to that lovely,
mournful music. The tired animal's
head had drooped upon its paws, and
it had dozed off. Sleep — death — these
were the highest blessings for creatures
such as this. He wanted to hear that
music nearer. ' And the poor beast
won't move,' he thought. So he went
into the old porch, past the grim sculptured
saints and martyrs who seemed
to grow out of the stone looking
heavenward with folded hands, — and,
pushing open the heavy carved oaken
door, found himself in the church —
from the hot glare into cool, pleasant
shade. At first sight, the great grey
interior seemed deserted. The shadows
came and went high up above among
the lofty arches. The mournful chanting
rose, fell, and echoed. There were

two or three figures flitting about beyond
the great screen, near to the high
altar. He stood, hat In hand, for a
few minutes, thinking strange thoughts
of Hfe and death. Such a dissatisfied,
restless nature as his was not superficial.
His continual discontent led to
mental Inquiry, then to thought. There
had been some strong Impressions made
upon him In his boyhood. One of
these was his acquaintance with the
dying Mrs Black. He remembered
that episode In his young life as little
as he would remember a scar. But,
like a scar-producing wound. It had left
its mark.

He had neither forgotten nor neo-elected

o o

Griselda all these years ; but chance, or
fate — largely assisted by Lady Romayne
had ordained that they should meet

but seldom. In the summer holidays
the Romaynes went to the coast for
sea - bathing. Christmas they generally
spent with General Sir Joseph Wanton,
Lady Romayne's father, at his old-fashioned
Welsh retreat. Since Mrs
Black's death, Hal had met Griselda
about a dozen times.

He was not one to dream and ponder
over past sensations. So, although he
thought kindly, even tenderly, of the
little maiden he had determined, when
he was a boy, to marry some day,
Griselda was an exception in his life.
She had never been farther from his
thoughts than to-day, when, wandering
into a chapel to see an old Italian picture
— a Mater Dolores that had made
an impression upon him the first time
he visited the cathedral a year or two

ago — he suddenly came upon Griselda
herself.

Two old market-women were kneeling,
bowing, and muttering, their rosaries
in their hands. Griselda was standing,
bending — her arms resting upon the
balustrade of the altar-rails — gazing into
the picture he had come to see.

It was unmistakably Griselda. She
was dressed in a cotton gown, with no
attempt at fashion in its make ; but even
her little straw hat could not hide that
golden glory of hair, or the shape of
her perfect little head.

IS Hal Romayne recognised
Griselda, with her hands resting
on the altar-rails of the
little chapel — the pretty fair profile with
the short upper lip and softly-rounded
chin dark against a stray sun-ray which
was peeping in — he felt a certain shock.
This meeting here like this, so unexpected,
seemed to him to have something
uncanny in it. Then, when the beautiful
young girl turned her head, and, at once
recognising him, merely smiled, he felt as
if this were more uncanny still.

Did you know we were here ? ' were
the first words he spoke to her, in the
hushed voice of one whose respect for
the house of God is not yet dead, as
they touched each other's hands ceremoniously.


No,' she said.

She was not surprised — not agitated,
in fact. Signs of emotion were entirely
absent in her, while he was chilled, and
trembled.

You are not alone ? ' he asked.

My father is going round with the
sacristan,' she said. ' Of course, we have
not seen you for so long, you do not
know ; my father — is — taking pupils.'

'Indeed!' said Hal, wondering at the
tone of anguish with which she informed
him of an every-day fact.

Yes,' said Griselda, her fair eyeHds

veiling her beautiful eyes. *' my father's
voice threatens to give way. He has
left off preaching for some time, and
perhaps soon he will not be able to read
the prayers ; so, with this threatening, he
has had to engage a curate. This expense
has had to be met by his taking pupils.'

Yes,' said Hal respectfully, himself
chivalrous again, once the surprise and
its effect over. ' No one could coach
better than your father, I am sure ; he
is dreadfully clever.'

You have seen the reviews ? ' said
Griselda, suddenly raising those big
violet eyes, and fixing them with a
strained, anxious expression upon the
young man.

Reviews .^ ' he repeated, with an
utterly-at-sea ' sensation. What could
she mean ?

VOL. I. N

The antagonistic reviews upon his
book — Certain Passages in Holy Writ
Examined by a Clergyman of the Church
of England' said Griselda. The quarterlies
were simply scorching. The bishop
wrote very kindly, but severely. Surely
you have heard all about It?'

Hal shook his head.

I am afraid vv-e military fellows are
so degenerate that we neither read
controversial books nor the comments
of the quarterlies,' he said, with a
short laugh. ' But, Griselda, If this
book and pupil business has been a
trouble to you, that Is another affair
altogether.'

Griselda smiled. It was a curious
smile to see upon a young fresh face —
the smile of one who is asked some
absurdity, such as a senior wrangler

just loaded with laurels might give if
a boy asked him if he had ever learnt
rule of three, or a bibliomaniac, if someone
ignorant of his craze asked him \{
he was fond of books.

Trouble to my father, you mean ? '
she said. ' I am only a girl. Girls don't
have troubles.'

Xo ; you are scarcely one to go into
hysterics if a new gown doesn't fit
according to your liking, like Lydia,
or to come home from hunting in a
rage because some other lady got the
brush, like Mabel,' said Hal. ' But,
trouble or no trouble, is your father
ill, or merely knocked over by disappointment
? '

Look at him ! ' said Griselda ; and
there was a hopelessness in her voice.

While speaking, they had strolled out

of the side-chapel into the nave. Hal
shading his eyes with his hand from a
long sunbeam that fell straight upon the
pavement in front from a side window,
saw three fissures coming towards them.
One was the stooping form of the repaired
old sacristan, tottering along in his
black gown, his bunch of keys dangling
from one of his withered hands ; another
was John Black, thinner, but still holding
up the head which was now sparsely
covered with straggling grey hair. There
was a fierce, determined look on his gaunt
face ; you would have judged him to bea
man of will, purpose, strength, who
had been worsted, hunted down by Fate,
and now stood morally at bay. And
such a guess would not have been altogether
wrong. The third was a young
man, somewhat squarely, if slightly, built.

with sharp, busy grey eyes in a face
which was pleasant, if not handsome.
His hair was rough ; his summer grey
suit hung helplessly upon him ; his hands
were gloveless, sunburnt — in fact, he looked
what he was, a mathematician.

Is that Hugh Blunt, your father's
pupil?' asked Hal, with astonishment
and distaste. ' Why, he was reading
with my tutor, and was going into the
army ! '

'Well, he is reading for his " B.S.C."
now,' said Griselda. ' He likes my
father.'

There was an ineffable tenderness in
that sentence, just as there was the very
reverse in the nods and ' how are you's ? '
of the young men when they met.

I did not know that you two were
acquainted,' said the Vicar of Crowsfoot,

elancinof from one to the other with a
certain grim amusement

We met at Robarts' rooms,' said Hal
coolly ; the fact being that Blunt — who
distanced Romayne in study as a flash
of lightning a slow-travelling cloud — had
spoken contemptuously of Hal to the
mathematical coach, Mr Robarts, as a
howling swell,' while Hal had languidly
wondered to the tutor why it was that,
when a fellow was clever, he ceased to
comb his hair and brush his nails. ' It
only takes five minutes, you know,' Hal
had said. ' There is no excuse on the
oTound of time.' Those two were antagonistic.
John Black knew it at a
glance. Griselda felt it. An awkwardness
came to the four English people so
strangely met thus to-day in a foreign
cathedral. Their disjointed talk meant

nothing. They were adversaries, till
they shut the oaken door and went out
into the warm air, the gay sunshine, with
great heaven as their dome instead q{
men's carvings in hard, cold stone.

Here Hal remembered the dog, told
Griselda about the poor lame cur, and
together they went across to the corner
where he was dozing, crouched against a
buttress.

Poor, poor creature ! ' said Griselda.
Then her father came up, and was immediately
interested. He had not lost
pity for humanity's weaknesses in his
scorn for humanity's callous selfishness.
One of humanity's weaknesses, in his
eyes, was its carelessness of animals.

Another unfortunate victim,' he said ;
and, turning the timid, wounded creature
gently over, he appraised its condition.

Three-quarters dead of starvation was
his verdict. ' Stoned, hunted, and frightened,
perhaps, into rabies.'

Up came Hugh Blunt, who loved his
own retriever at home better than any
other living creature, and the four grew
friendly in a common sympathy for a
low-bred outcast among dogs. Friendly — -
animated even. They discussed a possible
owner, and were unanimous in their
decision —-none. Then came the problem,
what was to be done with him ? Solved
by Griselda pleading to take him back to
their hotel. She would find a home for
him. Griselda's adoption of the cur proposed,
seconded, and passed, the next
question was how to convey him to the
hotel. Griselda coaxed him, and he
limped painfully into the road, but stood
blinking his sore, tearful eyes so piteously

at one after the other, his whole attitude
so expressive of, 'Why torment me? why
not leave me to die ?' that impetuous Hal,
feeling a rush of pity, simply stooped,
and, lifting the dirty creature, cradled him
in his arms.

Show me the way,' he said, striding
off Griselda — hurrying along at his side,
directing him to turn to the left, through
this narrow street, and to bear round to
the right up another — had never admired
Hal Romayne more, not even when he
had suddenly appeared in his green velvet
splendour as her promised prince in the
orchard of Crowsfoot Vicarage.

Oh, your coat ! ' she ventured to say.
It seemed to her such a delicate garment,
and already it was getting smeared and
hairy.

'Bother my coat!' said Hal. 'I am

beginning to detest coats. I am sick of
the same eternal old pattern. Why don't
they invent something new ? I don't
want to wear a coat. I would wear any
mortal thing — for a change.'

Ay, for a change. To Hal change was
as welcome as ice to the fever-parched,
drink to the thirsty.

It was a change, carrying that old dog
through the streets, Griselda, sweet, fresh
as a mountain daisy, speeding along
eagerly at his side — a change to see the
old women stop short and watch the
strange procession, arms akimbo on their
broad hips, their eyes slight with admiring
astonishment ; strange to go into the
humble inn, ' Die Weissee Rose ' (the white
rose), where a rose, like a pictured superannuated
turnip, presided as signboard,
where it was all very neat and tidy, but

where passages, coffee-room, and staircase
were alike pervaded by a strong odour of
sauerkraut and roasting coffee, and where
the house-mistress and the two red-faced
red-armed women her assistants, talked
to their guests, — however distinguished
those guests might be, and they had had
some learned, ay, some great men, with
w'orld-wide-known names, here, — with an
equality and fraternity which did them
honour.

It was all new, thought Hal, as Griselda
told the old dog's story in German to the
woman with the gigantic flaxen plaits, the
blue, blue eyes ; her father, Hal, and
young Blunt standing by — but newest of
all was Griselda herself — so lovely, so
pitying, and so supremely unconscious of
being anything, anyone, anybody — indeed,
an entity at all.

It was very new — to face the great
hotel, with its exclusive fashionable air,
its 'stand off' grandeur — after this; to
arrive just as his mother was alighting —
discontentedly, for she had not been
amused by her drive — and to hear her
fretful ' Dear me ! Where have you
been ? You might have come with me
to direct the coachman. He has taken
me along the most uninteresting road,'
et c cetera.

Do you know what I have been
doing ? ' said Hal, with a saucy coolness
which he assumed for his women relatives
a coolness which meant that they might
kick against his will, they might struggle,
resist, upbraid, reproach, weep, shriek, or
faint — and he would not * care a rap.' ' I
have been to the cathedral, worshipping a
picture — nearer saying my prayers among

the old women mumbling over their beads
than I have been for months. After
which, I carried a mangy old dog right
from one end of the town to the other,
followed by a select but somewhat ragged
crowd of admiring natives ; and I ended
up by drinking small beer and smoking a
clay pipe in a cheap and nasty public-house
with a British parson, who has come
abroad to pursue his studies in Atheism
among the Roman Catholic heathen.'

Good gracious ! ' gasped Lady Romayne,
with a little start.

Ah,' said Hal meaningly, ' I see you
know all about it ! Now, mother, it is
shabby — mean of you not to have told me
about the Blacks.'

Lady Romayne disgustedly said there
was nothing much to tell, only ' that man
had turned out just as she had expected —

just like those men who ideals and spoil
the uneducated poor always did. They
begin by knowing better than their betters,
and end by knowing better than their
Creator.' Lady Romayne grew quite sarcastic
in her annoyance that, after all her
plans and precautions to prevent Hal from
seeing or knowing anything of the Blacks,
they and Hal should actually have met in
this untoward and out-of-the-way manner.
The man got tired of flaunting his
Radicalism in people's faces, especially
when he got no encouragement from the
county people,' she went on ; 'so he wrote
a book, a vulgar attack upon the Epistles.
It was just what such a man would do.
However, his arrogance met with its just
reward. The papers put him down with
a calm contempt ; the bishop gave him
a good scolding. He was treated like

a naughty little boy or a silly, snarling
puppy. He was cautioned not to
preach — '
*What?'

That was the very least the bishop
could do, I am sure,' said Lady Romayne,
placidly pursuing her way up
the grand staircase to her private
apartments. 'If it had not been for
the loss of his wife years ao^o, and
that fuss about it, I am quite sure
the bishop's duty would have been to
suspend him altogether.'

Defend me from women's spiteful,
venomous tongues ! '

'Hal, you forget yourself!'
I do not forget poor Griselda.'
Poor Griselda, as you call her,
is, in my opinion, a remarkably silly
young person,' said Lady Romayne,

panting a little as she gained the
sitting-room, which was all crimson
velvet and gilding, and as she sank
among the cushions of the nearest
sofa, — ' I have always noticed that
people who get called " poor " are
foolish, useless creatures, from Sterne's
imaginary " Maria," who was doubtless
drawn from life, down to that
lady your grandpa Is so kind to
Lady Gladys Lewis — who weeps at
everything that happens to her, good
bad, or indifferent.'

Mother, you ought to have been
a friend to Griselda,' said Hal hotly.
He had grown pale, and his dark brows
where knit, which meant anger.

Lady Romayne was determined not
to lose her temper. Coolness was her
only chance with her spoilt boy.

I am a good friend to Griselda
Black,' she said, ' but I cannot
approve of her. I am told that she
sat up with her father night after
night helping him in the concoction of
that vile book.'

You cannot approve of such a
glorious thing }'

You young officers are unfortunately
such a set of unbelievers, that I cannot
expect you to understand me, Hal !
We do not feel surprised when you
men go off at a tangent and believe
in nothing. We know that,
at the very first blow from the Almighty,
you weill be down grovelling —
cowards at heart, as you all are ! Buta
woman is quite a different affair.
She must be very bad — or a fool — if

she does not believe. So that girl is
VOL. I. o

evidently a fool. I expect her mother
was, before her, or the man would not
be in this strait.'

I must not argue with a lady,' said
Hal, with a mock bow of respect ;
then he went off downstairs to the
smoking-room, and got a chair near
the window, and a Malignant, and
sat smoking and dreaming of Griselda
Griselda, who looked like some
perfect statue come to life and masquerading
in a cotton frock — Griselda,
who had sat up nights with her father,
who dared front the world side by side
with him, no matter what his opinions.
If creatures such as she lived in
the early days of this poor old
silly globe, no wonder they worshipped
them as gods and goddesses ! ' he
thought.

A sudden feverish lonorino- arose
to see her again soon, as soon as
possible. Hal had certainly not been
the master of his desires. He had
been far nearer being their slave.
Should he waive the interminable, stupid
table d'hote, and go off to the ' Weissee
Rose' aofain ? Pondering resolved
that it was quite possible that he
might be de trop there. No ; he would
not go.

I will stay here and endure the bore
he decided. ' If I am such a good boy
to-night, I deserve reward tomorrow.
Old fuller, the courier, doesn't mean us
to start again till tomorrow evening. I
may spend some hours with them before
I eo-then

he smoked away, dreaming of his
next meeting with Griselda. He was determined

to reassert that right which had
become his by Mrs Black's dying request,.
the right to protect and care for sweet
Griselda. He blamed himself for having
drifted with the tide, for having allowed
himself to be almost estranged from his
little love all these years. But now was
the time. He would soon be of a^e
his own master — and Griselda seemed
to be in a sore strait.

If Black had private property, he
might write any number of Atheistical
books and come out all right,' he niused.
But the poor beggar hasn't ! So they are
all at his heels, like a pack of hounds.'

Hal was not good company for his
family that night. He sneered at everything.
His father looked at him in mild
wonderment ; his mother held her head
high, and, attributing his ill humour to

those Blacks,' comforted herself that
they would be all far away up the
Rhine in twenty-four hours out of ' those
people's ' path ; his sisters defended themselves
by saying as many sharp things as
they could in return for his teasing. Disagreeing
constantly among themselves,
they found that union was strength, and
that it was necessary to make common
cause against their spoiled elder brother,
or, as Mabel expressed it, they would
be ' nowhere.'

But next morning he was in a better
temper. He seldom rose till noon, having
accustomed himself to keep late hours.
But to-day his breakfast was over, and
he was out and traversing the bridge
before twelve had struck from the church
towers.

It was a pure, clear summer morning.

The great river rippled and danced
in the sunshine. Boats went to and fro
the steam-ferry came throbbing across
with its freight of a couple of gaily dressed
market-women and an old priest, who satin
the stern, his chin resting on his hands
that were clasped upon his long staff He
had come from the requiem mass in the
cathedral, and his dim eyes gazed vaguely
out upon the stream, as he sat dreaming
and wondering why a good, great man
everyone had loved should have been
suddenly snatched away, and he, poor,
simple, old, useless body, left. Meanwhile,
a big dog ran backward and forward on
the quay, howling, barking, restlessly
wagging his shaggy tail. The river lay
between him and his master, who had
gone across in the last ferry-boat. There
seemed a curious mixture of joy and sorrow

in the scene about Hal — just as he felt
that there was in life. Perhaps, if he
had been ten years older, he would have
thought that trite thought — how ' all would
be the same a hundred years hence.'
But his young heart beat too passionately,
his young pulses were too active,
even vehement, for him to be passive.

As he went along, he swung his
cane, and his thoughts were busy about
that poor old fellow,' as his youth
designated the Vicars middle age. ' He
has had a hard fight, if all be
true,' he mused. Rumours anent John
Black's parentheses state had reached
even to rural Crowsfoot. ' First, a
wretched boyhood, for fellows don't
mince matters in a public school, orin
a private one either ; I expect he
must have had a bad time of it.

Then he was awfully fond of that
beautiful woman, his wife. I should
say all the love in his nature was
concentrated and given right over to
her. It must have been a frightful
blow when she died. Small wonder
it should shake his faith ! It certainly
was a mistake to go and stick his
doubts into a book ; for, as he depends
upon the Church for his income,
it is quarrelling with his bread
and butter! But a man's making a
mistake is no reason for his friends
to turn their backs upon him — just
the contrary. At any rate, I shan't ;
I can afford to stick by him, and
the governor can always be brought
to follow my lead — the mother too,
by a little management. Only those
women are not to be trusted. They'll

agree with you to your face, and,
the minute your back's turned, will
go plotting and planning against you.
There's no honour in them ; they
don't know what it means. But
Griselda — well, she's not like a woman,
as I know women — that's all.'

The young fellow went on more
quickly. Then the ' Weissee Rose ' came
into view. He slackened his steps,
and approached the quaint old hostelry,
which occupied a corner where three
of the narrow, unsavoury streets met, —
more leisurely, as if he were sauntering
by. He did not wish to seem
hasty or undignified in Griselda's eyes.
And who could tell '^, She might be
looking out of a window. At that
very moment those great eloquent
eyes might be fixed upon him. It

was an uncomfortable sensation ; and,
as he walked towards the crooked
building, with the overhanging second
storey and the heavy wooden roof,
he felt as if he had never before
noticed what troublesome and ungraceful
appendages arms and legs
were, especially when you were trying
to walk with unconscious airiness.

There was something wrong at the
Weissee Rose.' As he neared the open
door, he heard eager voices chattering
away loudly in German. Then one
of the fair-haired, blue-eyed wenches
rushed out, cried, ' Each — aber der Hebe
Herr' with a certain horror-stricken
surprise, and rushed back again. Then,
although Hal walked in and stamped
about the little room where he had
smoked and drunk with the Vicar of

Crowsfoot only yesterday, no one came
to him. He coughed, he knocked an
empty glass with his pocket-knife, he
whistled he even came out and cried,
'Hi — here — somebody!' He knew no
German. There was only a subdued
but eager muttering of that guttural language
somewhere ' behind the scenes.'
No one answered his summons.

This is a fine state of affairs ! '
he said to himself, annoyed and
nettled at being, as he considered
treated with disrespect. ' I do wonder
at Black bringing his daughter
here.' Then he found a hand-bell,
and, walking out into the desolate bar
rang till the red-faced landlord came out,
vociferating in German and gesticulating,,
his bristly hair seeming to stand on end,,
his eyes starting out of his head.

After a volley of what Hal considered
* gibberish,' the young man
made the landlord of the ' Wise
Rose ' understand that he understood
nothing.

*■ Madame speak — beetle English,' he
stammered. And, after a prolonged
absence, during which Hal was disturbed
by strange fears of he knew
not what, the plump proprietress appeared,
evidently greatly disturbed.

It was indeed a very little 'English'
that she spoke. But, after great
efforts on both sides, Hal learnt that
something serious had come to pass
since yesterday.

De gentleman mad, mad ! ' said
the woman. ' He try kill. We never
"ave so persons in die '' Weissee Rose." '
She almost thrust Hal out in her

excitement. He could find out nothing
further. He could not gather whether
Mr Black had gone suddenly crazy
whether he and his daughter were
still there, or, Indeed, what had taken
place. He tried to mount the crazy
little staircase, up which Griselda had
flitted after she bade him eood-nl^ht the
previous evening. He was resolved to
know the worst at all costs ; but the
landlord came out, and he and his wife
jabbered in German, and opposed his
further entrance ; finally, by their united
efforts, pushing him towards and out
of the door, which, so soon as he was
fairly outside, they shut and barred against
him.

There he was, hustled, treated rudely,
if not roughly turned out into the street,
and in ignorance of what had happened

to Griselda and her father. It was more
of an annoyance than a consolation to
think that they had the companionship
and assistance of Hugh Blunt.

A fellow like that — who thinks of
problems all day, and dreams of them
all night — is simply useless in everyday
life,' he thought. ' Oh, my poor
Griselda, who said so sweetly that " girls
had no troubles," what fresh burden has
fallen upon you ? '

He knocked at the bolted door
of the inn ; all remained quiet. He
gazed up at the windows ; they were
blank. And, even as he looked, someone
came and drew down the blinds.

It strikes me that this is a case
for the police,' Hal said to himself.
^ Before half-an-hour is over, my good
people, you shall be interrogated by

someone against whom you dare not
bar your doors.'

And he strode off, full of ardour, which
was nevertheless tempered by a secret
dread which he tried to hide from
himself, but which grew stronger each
moment.

HE Rhine steamer Der Edel-
mann was steaming gaily up
the river against wind and
tide. A motley crowd of passengers
was sitting on camp-stools or lounging
on the benches under the awning. It
was too hot to pace the deck. Only
the little children ran about playing
and chattering baby - talk, pretty little
Parisians dressed in the height of
fashion, attended by their neat white-capped
bonnes; sturdy, stolid Germans
; one or two English children

brought by venturesome parents. The
ladies were knitting or reading newspapers
and guide-books. The men stared about,
yawned, smoked. Most of these tourists
had seen it all before,' and were more
interested in the vendors of the piles
of purple plums or bunches of grapes,
tastefully arranged with vine-leaves in
flat, round baskets, — who came on board
at one landing-place and left at the
next, — than in the scenery.

Only one fair-haired girl stood leaning
over the bulwarks, gazing steadfastly
at the beautiful panorama. It was Gris-ella
— a little plaid cloak half hiding
her cotton dress. She was pale and
sad. The great circles round her violet
eyes showed fatigue. Yet, tired, miserable
as she felt, the grand mountains

rising solemnly before her, the forests of
VOL. I. p

vines that clung to the slopes at their
base, the rocky heights of the Drachen-
felt looming In the distance, appealed
to her love of the beautiful ; and as she
vas borne slowly onwards against the
strong current of the rapid river, and
watched the ruined castles perched
among perilous crags up aloft, or the
red-roofed villages clustering down below
among the green orchards, she felt
as If personal sorrow In such a scene
were scarcely sinless.

Yet she had good cause to be sorrowful.
Yesterday, after Hal Romayne left
them, her father opened letters from
England which had arrived while they
were out. The first was an Imperative
demand from Mr Black's publisher for
the Immediate settlement of all claims
for the unfortunate book. Certain Passages

in Holy Writ Examined by a
Clergyman of the Church of England,
which, according to Messrs Cotton &
Woolstone, of Paternoster Row, who had
undertaken to pubHsh the much-abused
volume for its author, had proved as
complete a financial as it had seemed
to be a literary failure.

This Mr Black had read with a certain
bitterness ; but it would have
disturbed him less had Messrs Cotton
& Woolstone refrained from enclosing
certain scurrilous reviews cut from papers
ecclesiastical and secular, which had appeared
since he left England. He had
tossed these to Hugh Blunt, who laughed,
and said, —

'You are just such a red flag to the
Anglicans as Luther was to Rome.'

But the words were scarcely out of

the young man's mouth before John
Black rose to his feet with the hoarse
cry one hears sometimes from a wounded
beast. Then he sank back in the chair
from which he had risen — muttering
and crying out — seized with sudden
delirium.

His second letter was from his solicitors,
Messrs Everest & Everest, curtly
declining to make any further advances
(he had drawn upon them according
to their proposal ten years ago — this
time for the education of his sons, Tom
being at Cambridge and Harry in a
surveyor's office), and giving as their
reason his most peculiar position,
openly attacking the religion whose
emoluments provided his daily bread.
Such a position, Messrs Everest considered,
could scarcely be long maln-^

gained, and they regretted to state that,
should the matter come into the Ecclesiastical
Courts, they must decline acting
for their whilom client in any way whatsoever.


The third letter was from his bishop, —
a bitter, scornful epistle. He stated that,
after consultation with supreme authority,
he must call upon John to recant, to
withdraw his work with public apology,
and to disclaim his ' vain and profane
disquisitions,' or take the consequences,
which consequences, he assured him,
meant as surely temporal ruin here
as such profanity meant eternal ruin
hereafter.

These sharp, unexpected blows upset
the Vicar of Crowsfoot's weary brain.
Fortunately for him, his daughter was
as cool and collected as she was tender

and loving, and Hugh Blunt, whose
opinions were even more unorthodox
than his tutor's, and who therefore
heartily sympathised with him, proved
a valuable nurse and help to Griselda.
They at once summoned the first medical
man in the German city, and in a
few hours John Black was sufficiently
recovered from his transient delirium to
pursue his journey. The physician insisted
upon change of scene. But even,
had he not done so, out of the ' Weissee
Rose ' they must have gone ; for the
landlord, who had once before had some
painful experiences with a lunatic, was
frightened out of his wits, and was
therefore to be to a certain extent excused
for his churlish treatment of Hal
Romayne that morning.

Hugh had been, as Griselda was gratefully

thinking, while she gazed wonderingly
at the great hills, at the soft
cloudlets poised in the rich deep blue
of a German sky — at the clear deeps of
the grand old river — well — he had been
everything to her these last twenty-four
hours. Remembering her brothers — selfish
Tom and weak-willed Harry, the
only young men she had had any real
experience of — she wondered at the
self-control, thoughtfulness, and delicate
sympathy of her father's pupil, who was
ordinarily ' short,' rough indeed, in his
manner.

He was now sitting by her father —
who had fallen into an uneasy doze,
stretched upon a cabin sofa. Hugh had
insisted upon Griselda's remaining on
deck. He had assumed a certain filial
and fraternal command, and, unaccustomed

as she was to resistance, she
meekly obeyed. Half-an-hour ago, she
had gone below to see how they were
getting on. Her father was asleep.
Hugh, sitting on a camp-stool, reading,
smiled and silently shook his head at
her. So she returned to her corner on
deck — where she was hidden by the
man at the wheel — and, turning her
back upon the little world on board,
faced the greater world of Nature.

Just as she was thinking of Hugh,
she heard his voice behind her.

I have come to look after you.'

How is he ?'

Sleeping like an infant. I expect
It is the reaction. He Is utterly exhausted.'


Was It not all — awful ? '

Yes, It was,' said Hugh candidly,

leaning his elbows on the rail, and gazing
down into the cool green depth of the
rushing water. * It was almost a fight.
I never expected he would rally so
soon. But what I feel about it is this,
Griselda : only one difficulty is over.
When his head is clear and steady again,
he must face the situation. How will
he do it ? That shrewd old Doctor
Schwenk foresaw that. He said your
father had certainly weakened his brain,
either by overwork or loss of sleep. Of
course, I told him of impending trouble.
He said, in his old quaint way, " Dismiss
aber night sein " ; in which I
agreed, but asked, How could it be
averted ? He gave me what schoolboys
call a "regular dressing." He asked me
what I thought I had been given youth
and strength for, and what you were for,

if not to act and make use of youth
and Its powers when called upon. He
suggested I should assume the command
I told him I was nobody — merely your
father's pupil. " Then you have helped
overture this poor man's brain," he said
*' and you refuse to help it to rest ? "
At this he looked at me through his
spectacles like some old owl, in a cynical
way I shall not easily forget ; he evidently
felt great contempt for me. I was
goaded into speaking out — ' Hugh gave
a laboured sigh, and hesitated.

What did you say ? ' Griselda spoke
gently. As Hugh spoke, her heart sank.
She had recognised Doctor Schwenk's
cleverness when he attended her father,
and she knew what his hints meant.

I told him that I would lay down
my life for you and your father,' said

Hugh, his voice husky with suppressed
emotion, ' but that interfere in such a
matter I dared not. You, Griselda, you
are the only one who can do anything.
Your brothers — well, they mean well —
but Tom is a fresh-man, and naturally
rather raw, and — well, of course poor
Harry, good-natured though he is, is of
no earthly use in an affair of this kind

Griselda, her eyes fixed vaguely on
the beautiful mountains, heard and understood
that a great weight of responsibility
was slowly settling down upon her
young shoulders.

'What could I do ? '

She clasped her hands, and looked
earnestly up into Hugh's face. There
was something so firm, so calm, in that
hand-clasp, in that sweet but steadfast
look, that, admiring her as Hugh had

constantly admired her since he first saw
Griselda in her simple home, he had
never admired her as now.

Your duty lies in a nutshell he said,
trying to speak dryly. 'He is for the
present, till his brain recovers power, incapable
of acting for himself You are
his natural regent here ; now you must
take the reins.'

They talked earnestly and long. Hugh
simply stated what he thought must be
done. They would continue travelling
until the Vicar showed signs of recovery.
He himself would furnish the ready
money ; the Vicar could repay him any
day. ' He is only too anxious to pay
for and repay others he said. ' Money
burns a hole in his pocket, as they say.'
Hugh had no fear that his and Griselda's
nursing among these exquisite scenes.

where nature seemed constantly at work
to excel herself, would bring health of
mind and body to John Black.

Meanwhile, he suggested that Griselda
should reply to those letters which had
brought about the climax of her father's
brain trouble.

He thought she should write to the
publishers, the lawyers, and the bishops
stating that her father was seriously ill,
but that, so soon as he would be sufficiently
recovered, he would reply to their
communications in person. Griselda was
ready, but diffident.

You must write simply, just as you
feel,' said Hugh. ' I have no doubt but
that it will be all riorht.'

Then he sent her down to sit by her
father. He felt the want of being alone.
Looking downwards into the clear, rushing

water, where he could see the silvery
fish and the green weeds carried along
by the strong current, he drew in long
breaths of the fresh, sweet air. It almost
seemed to him as if he had not had time
to breathe since Mr Black had been
seized with that strange but happily) short
delirium — no, nor time to think — only
time to feel.

Now, as he was gently carried along
the great river, the mountains towering
above — each minute bringing him face
to face with one or another of Nature's
works, all so beautiful that his progress
was a series of surprises — he felt as one
who is in an enchanting dream. Men
and women may cheat themselves about
themselves in every-day life ; but they are
generally truthful in dreams. And even,
as if in a dream, Hugh felt, now, that

lie loved this innocent young girl with
the one love which moulds a man's life.
It was a revelation. For he had assured
himself that he had a fraternal
feeling, an honestly manly admiration for
Griselda Black, but that this was all. He
was merely beginning life, the eldest of
a large family. And, although his father,
the well-known Justice Blunt, was well
off, he expected his sons to help themselves,
and create their own careers, even
as he had done. So Hugh Blunt would
have no drag in the shape of a ' love-affair.'
He had assured himself of this
when he became Mr Black's pupil. As
for a ' love-affair ' with the grave young
girl who presided with such old-fashioned
simplicity over her father's household, he
would as soon have thought of a ' love-affair
' with the good-hearted but purblind

and garrulous Jemima. He felt the
chivalrous sensations when Griselda was
in question that he felt when his own
sisters were implicated. Yet to-day, hereafter
the night's violent excitement,
seeing Rhineland for the first time, overtired,
unhinged, a moment when sober
truth asserts herself, his heart said, ' I
love her.'

The leap into life of a slumbering sensation,
which he had not even suspected,
was like any other shock. It stayed the
ordinary, quiet course of his practical
nature.

Anyone would love her,' he said to
himself almost angrily. He tried to persuade
himself that his feeling was great
admiration, lively sympathy, deep, honest
friendship. He partially succeeded.
That stupid passion which rules boors,

fools — the lowest of mankind — It Is a
desecration to connect it with her name
and with mine,' he said to himself ' As
for me, I shall never marry ; and as for
her — well, her life-work lies pretty plainly
before her, and she is not one to shrink
from it.'

Then he thought practically, tersely,
of the situation. He was staunch, ready.
He would not shirk one Item of the
immediate duty he considered specially
his — that of nursing the Vicar of Crows-foot
until he regained his mental vigour.

He rejoined the father and daughter.
Mr Black was awake, and calm. He
arranged that they three should dine on
deck while the table-d' hope was proceeding
below. He fee'd the waiter who
was to attend upon them, in advance. He
made his way to the kitchen, and had a

VOL. I. Q

brief but successful interview with the
white-capped chef.

There had scarcely been a more delicately
- arranged dinner on board Der
Edehnann than this, which was served on
the deserted deck that bright summer
evening to the gaunt, pale clergyman,
his anxious daughter, and the determined
young man, Hugh Blunt.

As they ate and drank and talked,
the Vicar occasionally relapsing into
semi-vacuous thought, the giant shadows
thrown across the river by the high
hills deepened into darkness. Bright
stars came out one by one on the
dusky blue overhead. Then came the
bustle of returning diners, the clatter of
busy feet pacing the deck, sounds of
music from the saloon below.

A deep stillness was settling down

upon the mountains, which were gradually
growing black against a luminous
sunset, when the steamer slackened
speed, and stopped at the landing-place
of Goarshausen, where Hugh thought it
best they should stay a while.

It was a quiet little place. A few
houses and two good-sized hotels glimmered
white against the sombre background
of wooded hills.

The Vicar walked from the pier to
the hotel, leaning heavily on Hugh's
arm. Griselda, following with the luggage
- porter, noticed how her father
stooped and tottered. She was deeply
anxious. But, as she gazed up into
the vast star sprinkled heavens, the
thought of the great universe with its
multiplication of huge planets, brought
that sense of her own insignificance,

of the infinitesimal smallness of human-beings,
with their selfish hopes, fears,
joys, and sorrows, which Is a comfort
to certain minds while suffering.

The ' Golden Kreuz ' was a neat,
airy building, with a general aspect
of polished floor, gleaming white china
stoves, aloes and palms In huge red
pots, shining white damask - covered
tables, and flitting black forms, busy
waiters deftly carrying high piles of
covered plates, napkin on arm. The
rooms allotted to the party were square,
somewhat solemn apartments, overlooking
the Rhine.

I mean to get him to bed at once,'
said Hugh to Griselda In an undertone,
as the three mounted the slippery staircase
(Hugh Insisted upon, at least for
to-night, sharing the Vicar's room), ' and,.

If you take my advice, you will go too.
Remember, you have not been In bed
since the day before yesterday.'

But Griselda had those fateful letters
on her mind. Once shut Into her quaint
bedroom, with the massive, box-like bed
looking uninviting to English eyes —
almost as un-english as the species of
milk-jug planted In a slop-basin on the
mahogany table, which did duty as
wash-stand — she felt disinclined for bed,
and as far from sleep as If she had
but just risen from a long night's rest.

She unpacked her writing - desk and
re-read the three letters which had had
such a terrible effect upon her father.

There — In the calm silence, the
Rhine splashing against the pebbly
river - bank below, the murmuring of
voices, the rustle of a dress, the crackling

of a footstep audible In the wide
stillness — Griselda, her elbows poised on
the polished surface of the round table
in the centre of the room, pored over
those letters once more, and seemed to
receive and assimilate their bitterness.

No, she could not sleep till they were
replied to. The question was, How todo
it?

Griselda had not practised the art of
correspondence. The few letters she had
written had not taxed her faculty for
composition. She had occasionally written
to her brothers. She had written
letters at her father's dictation, and
even from notes jotted down by him.

All these years John Black had done
his utmost to educate his daughter.
Of course he refused that obnoxiously-
worded offer of Lady Romayne's, that

arrived so inopportunely at the time of
his wife's death — the offer to lend him
the children's governess, without payment,
two or three days weekly. The Vicar
was weak in modern languages, ' but
she will do with what I can teach her
he resolved. Griselda had learnt Latin,
Greek, Algebra, Euclid, as her brothers
had. Perhaps this mental training had
helped to preserve that quaint simplicity
which made some persons call her ' odds
and others 'stupid.' The Vicar had
allowed her to read much bygone literature,
that he particularly liked. But now,
at this juncture, little of her training
seemed of use. In a puzzled, anxious
way, she went to the windows and
leaned out, gazing at the rippling rivA*
studded with star-reflections. Two men
Englishmen — were walking up and

down below, in the hotel garden. Their
cigar-ends were spots of red light in the
darkness. As Englishmen will, with
some notion that their language cannot
leap the Channel, they spoke loudly
and without reserve. They were talking
of some acquaintance. One said to
the other impatiently, —

What could you expect ? Anyone
who cannot face a situation must look
for ruin. Such creatures ought to be
strangled, or put out of the way somehow
by Act of Parliament. They are
more useless and more of a nuisance
than these abominable gnats.'

It was a chance — a coincidence, perhaps
— that brought those men within
earshot of Griselda just when she had
to face a situation ' — an important one
for her father.

Such creatures as I am, while I ama
coward about writing, ought ' — she
paused to recall the exact words —
ought to be strangled — put out of the
way. They are more useless and more
of a nuisance than those gnats. Oh
dear ! What a very peremptory man
that must be ! I am glad I don't know
him. What would he think of me ? '

Poor Griselda bit her lip as she remembered
Tom's threat when she was
but a baby-girl — that, if she would not
obey him in this or that, he would
wring her neck. * I wonder why our
poor necks are so badly treated?' she
thought, instinctively protecting her soft
fair throat with her hands. ' They used
to be hacked at with an axe ; now they
dislocate them with a rope.'

Then she turned bravely back to her

desk, and began the worst first, the
letter to the bishop.

Hugh had said, * Write simply — just
as you feel.'

Well, I couldn't do anything else ; I
am not clever enough,' she told herself,,
as she resolutely mended a pen and
began, —

GOARSHAUSEN, AugUSt — , 1 8 — .

My Lord, — Your letter to my father
has made him very ill. It is true that it
arrived by the same post as one from
his publisher, asking payment for printing
his book, and one from his lawyers,
saying that they could not advance him
any more money. But those letters
would not have brought on this brain-attack,
for he is accustomed to disagreeable
letters about money-matters. It was

your lordship's letter that he talked of
in his delirium. I cannot think what he
will do about this when he gets well ;
but one thing I do know, that, whatever
he wrote in that book, he will never
withdraw, for each word and sentence,
each thought, came from his heart, — and
if, when convinced, he were to deny his
convictions, he would be false to God
and to himself, which my father will
never be.

We are doing our best to make him
well, when we shall immediately return
to England. As soon after as possible,
my father will call upon your lordship at
the palace, and I am, — Obediently yours,
Griselda Black.'

Without daring to read over what she
had written, she took another sheet, and

in a few dignified words informed the
publishers, Messrs Cotton & Wool-stone,
that the Vicar was indisposed, but
would reply to their communication as
soon as it was prudent for him to write.
Then she laid this aside, and prepared
to address Messrs Everest & Everest.

This was a more difficult matter. She
sat biting the feather of her pen and
reading that letter of theirs over and over
again.

If I told them the truth,' she thought,
^ it would be that they are cold-blooded,
and that I think them cowards for thrusting
their help upon him when he did not
want it, and suddenly withdrawing it just
when he wants help more, I expect,
than he ever wanted it in his life. No ;
I must write the merest commonplaces
to those lawyers.'

She dashed off a note in her boldest
handwriting —

To Messrs Everest & Everest.

Sirs, — Your communication addressed
to my father, the Rev. John Black,
reached him in Germany; I, his daughter,
reply for him, as he is at present too ill
to write, or indeed to be consulted about
business at all. As soon as he may with
prudence undertake the management of
his affairs again, he will consider the
contents of your letter, and will most
likely forward you his reply ; and I am,
sirs, — Yours, etc., Griselda Black.'

She felt satisfied with * yours, etc' — it
might mean anything. Griselda had an
antipathy for — something akin to a fear
of — these lawyers, the Everests. Young

child that she was when she first heard
their names, she was observant ; and she
soon found out that her father depended
upon them in some way. He either returned
from a visit to their offices in
high spirits, or moody and distrustful.

If, as she undressed and crept wearily
to bed, worn out with fatigue, anxiety,
and the natural excitement of a first visit
abroad among all the beautiful strange
sights and sounds, she could have guessed,
even in some degree, what her father's
actual connection with the Lincoln's Inn
solicitors really was !

But, as the moonlight crept in and lay
in blue-white patches on the polished
floor — as strange shadows, cast by passing
clouds flitting across the night sky
or by the tree-branches waving in the
warm wind — flickered mysteriously upon

the walls, she fell into a sleep untroubled
by dream or vision.

She did not even think once of ' tomorrow
' — tomorrow, which was to kindle
a fire in her gentle soul which could
only die when that soul fled from her
body — perhaps not even then !

END OF VOL. I.

-COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

WliV

MG 1 to
NOV 2 5 m

L161 — O-1096

A NOVEL.

BY

THE AUTHOR OF "THE GARDEN OF EDEN,"

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. 1 1.

LONDON : R V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

1886.

wall Rights reserved. ^

Crown Svo, clothe y. 6d. each.
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS AND BOOKSTALLS.

FACING THE FOOTLIGHTS.

A BROKEN BLOSSOM.

MY SISTER THE ACTRESS.

By FLORENCE MARRYAT.

THE HEART OF JANE WARNER. \ PEERESS AND PLAYER.

UNDER THE LILIES & ROSES.

MY OWN CHILD.

HER WORLD AGAINST A LIE.

By ANNIE THOMAS (Mrs Pender Clip).
FRIENDS AND LOVERS. I ALLERTON TOWERS.

JENIFER. I KATE Valiant.

By LADY CONSTANCE HOWARD.
MATED WITH A CLOWN. I SWEETHEART AND WIFE.

MOLLIE DARLING. | ONLY A VILLAGE MAIDEN.

By MRS HOUSTON, Author of " Recommended to Mercy'"

Barbara's warning.

By MRS ALEXANDER FRASER.

A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY. | THE MATCH OF THE SEASON.

A FATAL PASSION.
By IZA DUFFUS HARDY.
LOVE, HONOUR AND OBEY. | NOT EASILY JEALOUS.

ONLY A LOVE STORY.
By JEAN Middlemost.
POISONED ARROWS.
By H. Loveth-CAMERON.
A NORTH COUNTRY MAID. | A DEAD PAST.

By DORA RUSSELL. I By LADY VIOLET GREVILLE.

OUT OF EDEN. | KEITH's WIFE.

By NELLIE FORTESCUE Hard Son, Author of " So Runs my Dream.
FOR ONE man's PLEASURE.
By EDMUND Leather.

THE A C T O R'S WIFE.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

G R I S E L D A.

CHAPTER I

was a glorious morning in
Goarshausen. Griselda awoke.

wondering where she was.
When she remembered, she went to
the window. Beyond the garden, with
its clumps of acacias and laurels, the
Rhine rippled placidly. To the left,
to the right, were those round-backed
hills, all variegated and changing tints,

VOL. II. A

from the palest green to the deepest
violet, as the morning sunbeams or the
flitting shadows touched them.

One minute of wondering admiration,
then her thoughts fled to facts. She
rang her bell, and sent a scribbled
message by the chambermaid to Hugh.

How is he '^. Are we to breakfast
together ? '

While she was brushing and plaiting
her fair locks, a pencilled message was
brought back, —

He has passed a most tranquil nights
seems almost himself. At the same
time, we must be strictly on guard. We
had better breakfast in the garden, in
about a half-an-hour from this. I trust
In you to remember that our talk must
exclude any and all reference to disturbing
events. H. B.'

Griselda felt relief, — peace. She put
on her prettiest dress. This was a
green-spotted muslin, trimmed with lace.
With her fair rose-tinted skin, she
looked a sweet siren, — even as the siren
of the dangerous Lorelei hard by might
have looked, could she have been
dressed in modern costume.

Going down, she saw her father
leaning on Hugh's arm, just reaching
the bottom of the staircase. ' Dear
food fellow that Hush is!' she gratefully
thought, with moistened eyes. * I
don't mind showing him my letters' —
she had them in her pocket — ' one bit.
And, if he does not like them, they
shall not go.'

However, when Hugh, after their
pleasant little out - of - door breakfast,
asked Griselda apart whether she had

accomplished her correspondence, and
she, in mute reply, handed him the
three letters, she greatly doubted
whether those specimens of her literary
incompetence ' — she called it — would
ever be sent to England.

Sitting by her father on a bench
under the waving acacias, she watched
Hugh pace the narrow garden walks
reading her letters. He walked slowly
to the end of one path, then stood still,
carefully fastening the thin envelopes.
Then she felt an instinct to jump up and
run after him — he was stamping them.
Then, worse than all, he went to the
post-box that belonged to the hotel, and
dropped them in, without any further
ceremony.

He returned to them, and began ordinary
talk with Mr Black. She did

not dare to remark upon her letters,
lest her father should remember and
grow furious again. So she sat and
quietly endured her misgivings, while
the Vicar, who was growing steadily-better,
told them stories of the Rhine, —
how the fortress on Rheinfels opposite
them had bravely held out against
General Mallard and his twenty-four
thousand Frenchman in 1692, — how Mallard
had gone to his king previously,
and had boastfully capped the boastful
speeches of other courtiers by saying,
My new-year's offering to your Majesty
shall be the fortress of Rheinfels,' — how
the famous whirlpool beneath the
Lorelei rock lay hard by ; and how
many had been drawn to destruction
while gazing at the supposed vision of
the maiden and listening to the mystical

songs that were presumably uttered ber
her Hps.

Here the Vicar sighed.

It would seem that each one of us
had our special Lorelei,' he said dreamily.
*We are lured and lured on, only to
find ourselves vainly struggling in a
whirlpool.'

His two young companions exerted
themselves to change the current of his
thoughts. They pretended to disagree
as to whom should walk, and whether
Mr Black could accompany them in
the pony-chair belonging to the hotel.
Their squabble ended by Hugh going
off seemingly in a huff with Griselda,
and after whispering to her aside,
Talk about anything but his affairs.
I will come back and mount guard in
an hour or two. Then you can go.

Isn't that the best way ? ' Griselda
nodded significantly, then turned round
to her father, with a vexed expression.

Don't be angry with poor Hugh,'
he said, taking her arm, and walking
feebly towards the river bank.

Griselda protested that she was not
angry, but managed to say rather sharply
that she did not like ' prigs ' and ' dictatorial
people.'

But you two were such good friends
till I got ill,' said John Black, in mild
expostulation. ' Sometimes I almost
thought — but that doesn't matter.'

She flushed up. She knew very well
what her father meant.

Griselda,' he began again, ' I have
often wondered what you — would do —
if I died ? Tom and Harry are good
fellows, I believe ; but I have always

fancied that your organisation was superior
to theirs, — that you would not be
happy making your home with them.'

Don't talk of things which are not
likely to happen said his daughter,
fondly pressing his arm. ' You are not
likely to die, father.'

But if I were to die soon — answer
me, Griselda — do you care for any one
person more than another ? '

Had his brain been in good working
order, he would scarcely have talked
thus. His speech took Griselda entirely
by surprise.

Oh dear, no ! ' she cried, her face
aflame. ' You, and the boys, and
Jemima, of course, I love you all ; but
I only like other people.'

Then she stopped short, drew his
attention to a vineyard on the opposite

bank, and chattered on till, when Hugh
came back, she was almost at the end
of her conversational resources.

They had luncheon together, then
Hugh showed Griselda the map of the
excursions in the neighbourhood that
hung in the hall.

If you take my advice, you will
stroll towards the Swiss Valley,' he
said. ' You have four hours before
dinner, and you will see something of
the scenery, at all events. By-the-way,
dear,' he added, looking with fond admiration
into her eyes, ' those letters
were admirable, — capital ! I don't mean
that they were fine specimens of composition
or telegraphy ; but they were
just what was wanted at this point.'

Griselda looked almost distressed. At
no time did she like praise. And

Hugh's kind manner cut her to the
quick, she could not tell why. She
left him hastily, and hurriedly began
her walk.

At first this lay among the grey pebbles
of dry watercourses, or along goat-paths
at the edges of the crags. The ground
steadily rose, and presently she found herself
on a hill. Behind her, tiers of hills,
until the highest were actual mountains
faintly wreathed in pale mist ; beneath her,
the gleaming Rhine, with the ruin-crowned
gloomy hill, the Rheinfels ; and all around
was silence, In which the goat-bells were
distinctly heard tinkling here, there, above,
to the right and to the left.

She paused, delighting in the luxurious
silence ; then she followed the path
through a young forest of delicate larches.

She did not know which way she was

going, for the footpath wound from left
to right fantastically. She only knew she
was steadily ascending, and that after at
least half an-hour's carefully stepping
aside from old trunks that lay about and
across the path like bundles of petrified
snakes, and after manfully making her way
through twisted boughs that showered
their tiny green needles plentifully upon
her as she passed, she came to the top
of the wooded hill.

It was a green, fern-clad, circular clearing.
Great trunks of trees lay here and
there, green moss and fragile lichen
clinging to their peeling bark, ferns and
tender weeds springing up about them
from the fragrant earth.

The grassy knoll was deserted. There
were no footprints in the soft turf. With a
species of joy, Griselda felt that her kind

those odd creatures, as she thought
them, ordinary men and women — did not
generally deign to haunt this beautiful
spot.

It was the first time she had been alone
for so long ; yet no one loved solitude
better than Griselda. She had been
taught to love it in that curious childhood
when her mother was a confirmed invalid,
her father seldom at home, her brothers
cruel with the natural unchid cruelty of
boys running wild. That life among
them was a dull, sad solitude.

This solitude in this green ferny spot,
encircled by tender beautiful trees, with
God's blue heaven above, and nothing to
suggest wrong-doing, or suffering, or suspense,
or savagery anywhere — this solitude
was heavenly.

She sat on an old trunk carefully, that

not one frail weed should be disturbed ;
then she began to think.

She felt grateful that her father had
recovered so far, — that those letters were
safely despatched. But she felt uneasy
about Hugh.

She was but sixteen, and no man had as
yet dared to speak to her of love. But,
when Hugh looked so tenderly into her
eyes to-day, she had felt a certain sensation
of dismay.

What this was, or why she felt it, she
could not have told. But what did her
father really mean when he asked her
whether she ' cared for any one person
more than another ? '

Surely — he could not think — that she
could ever — marry — Hugh ?

She felt ashamed of having even thought
of such a thing, and began thinking of her

brothers. They had never, at any time,
been particularly kind to herself and
Jemima. But she had no doubt they
would get better as time went on.

While she was consoling herself with
this thought, she saw a man come leisurely
out of the wood opposite — a grey figure.

Hal ! '

The joyous cry was hardly out of her
lips before he was bounding towards her
over fallen trunks.

Griselda ! '

Their hands were clasped. They could
almost hear each other's hearts beat.

Griselda's lips quivered, her eyes were
wet, she hardly knew whether she was
sorry or glad, laughing or crying — and
he ? — oh, when he arrived at Goarshausen
and found out all about them, and that he
had been terrified about the Vicar without

much reasonable cause, when one written
line — even one message left for him —
would have spared him the pain — he had
been in a rage with this sweet, trembling,
little beauty !

Oh, you wretched little minx ! ' he said,
devouring her with his eyes ; ' you —
worse than horrible little mortal ! '

And he closed his hands warmly, tightly
round her slim wrists. She, feeling, knowing
that this was lover's passion, shrank
almost with fear for what he would do
next.

He felt one fierce desire to take her in
his arms there and then, and tell her that,
from the first moment he saw her again in
the old cathedral, he had known that she
was his love, the mistress of his thoughts,
and the dictator of his life and fortunes,
and that no one should come between

them — neither her father nor his parents
that, if she were not eventually his wife
then, as he had been restlessly repeating
to himself during his journey in pursuit, in
the words of an old rhyme, * He'd know
the reason why.'

But such rough and ready wooing might
frighten this simple maiden, though she
was daring as well as timid.

Why did you not write ? '

Oh, I couldn't ! It was such a scene
poor father ! '

I know all about it ; * I heard at the hotel
here. But he is all right now. Men of his
age do get brain fits like that when they
are overworked. He ought not to overwork.
But we'll talk about him presently.
We've got ourselves to think about now.
Oh, Griselda, if you were only half a quarter
as kind to me as you are to other people!'

•' What have I done ? '

Leaving me — running away Hke that —
surely — you must know what I felt!
Have you forgotten that, long ago, you
promised to — '

Hal ! Loose my hands ! That was
silly nonsense ; we were children.'

All the more reason that we meant
what we said ; children and fools speak
the truth, they say,' said Hal, encouraged
by the flood of crimson that rushed to
Griselda's face, ears, neck. ' I spoke the
truth as a child then. I may be going to
speak it as a fool now ; but I'll speak it, all
the same. Come here, Griselda ! ' Still
holding her hands, he led her back to the
mossy trunk under a tree from which she
had sprung up to meet him. * Sit down.
No, not so far away. I am going to be
masterful, and I am going to catechise

VOL. II. B

you. First of all, what made you tremble
and half cry when you saw me ? '

You startled me.'

Griselda collected herself, and prepared
to be on the defensive.

Unpleasantly ? '

How can I tell ? '

Come ' — Hal tried to see her face,
which she steadily turned from him, —
Griselda, you must answer me one question
— straight out. Do you hate me ? '

Certainly not.'

Are you indifferent to me ? '

A moment's pause ; then a feeble ' No.'
Then there is only one thing left,
Griselda. If you do not hate me, and
are not indifferent to me, you must' —
he drew a deep breath before he took
the plunge — ' you must feel just a little
towards me as I feel towards you.'

Griselda said nothing, but tried gently
to withdraw her hands.

Don't you want to know what I feel
for you ?'

Perhaps — most Hkely you do not know
yourself ! ' Griselda said.

She felt danger. This young lover suddenly
appearing and pouncing upon her
out of the bushes in tigerish fashion was
unnerving.

It is so many years since we met;
I have only seen you now and then ; you
don't even know me ; how can you .-^ *
It was but a poor, stumbling apology
for a speech. But Griselda felt she must
say something. ' Oh, do be sensible !
Are you all here ? Your mother and
father and sisters, I mean.'

All,' said Hal contemptuously. * Ah,
Griselda, you have a great deal to answer

for. When I went to your inn next
day, the landlord told me to ^' get
out " — simply that ; something had happened
to your father — but what ? I felt
frenzied. I actually went to the heads
of the Police, fearing those "" Weissee
Rose " people had misbehaved in someway,
then an interpreter explained, and
I looked a fool, and the Police frowned
disgustedly at me as a warning not to
trifle with their dignity again. Then I
got into a rage, and quarrelled with my
mother and the courier, and made my
sister cry, and Sir Hubert thoroughly
uncomfortable ; and then a lucky inspiration
brought me here.'

How — curious ! '

*Well, not altogether so, for one of
the only speeches that surly Blunt chose
to honour me with that day we all met

in the cathedral was, whether I did not
think St Goar a good place to stop at.
I remembered that, and went to St Goar.
I inquired at the hotels ; you were not
there. Someone suggested you might
be at Goarshausen ! I took the ferry
across, and found you. I saw Blunt and
your father in the distance sitting in the
garden. I got hold of one of the waiters,
and found out which way you had gone,
and here I am, Griselda! If you won't
tell me what you feel for me, I don't
care, I will tell you what I feel for you.
I don't say I have pined for you since
we said good-bye, and I gave you my
chain, years ago. Boys don't pine, or,
if they do, they are not worthy to be
called boys at all. But, whenever I did
see you while we were both growing up,
all that love I had for you came back

and did not leave me again ; each time
it grew stronger. Then, when I came
upon you, so beautiful, so simple, so
good, standing at that altar, all the feeling
that had smouldered these long years
seemed to burst into a flame ; I wonder
I did not go down on my knees to you
there and then. Oh, don't snatch away
your hands ! You have been taught to
think, perhaps, that nothing sudden can
last ; perhaps the thing itself does not
last, but its effects are for ever. Is not
the sudden the most powerful ? Think of
electricity, of volcanic explosion.'

Hal — pray — please ! '

I will have my say out ! ' said the
impetuous young man, emboldened by
Griselda's pallor, and feeling all the keen
pleasure of subjugation. ' I have been
a fool to let my mother keep us apart

so long, for I believe it is she who has
done it ; but I will be a fool no longer
in that regard. I shall be of age directly,
and my own master ; now I am my own
master so far that I dare tell you that I
love you.'

Griselda sprang up and away from him.

Hal ! ' she cried, with a sudden outburst
which astonished even herself,
turning her glistening eyes full upon
him. 'Oh, Hal, do not break my heart!
You have been a sort of king to me for
all these years, but getting farther and
farther away. I never thought to hear
you talk to me like you do ; I never
dreamt it could happen. Don't come off
your throne and put your sceptre on my
poor neck and take me up to share it
with you for a while, and then cast
me off ! '

My darling ! ' Hal was down on his
knees before her on the grass. Sitting
there, pleading, her lovely face lit up with
a passion new to Griselda, she seemed to
him divine, and he honestly believed that
from that moment no other woman could,
would, or should have any beauty In his
eyes. ' I ever let you go when I have
once got you ? You, my Ideal, ever
since I first saw you sitting there, so
pretty and patient, In the orchard at
Crowsfoot ! I let you go ? Not very
likely ! Does a man let a big diamond
go when he succeeds in getting it ?
Don't — don't look at me like that, as If
you cannot believe a word I say ! Shall
I swear — promise — vow — '

No, no ! Oh, Hal, it makes me so
happy ; but how can I believe you ?
Think 'of what I am and what you are !

We are poor, and, I fear, almost In
disgrace because of that book my father
wrote ; and you — you will be Sir Henry
Romayne and very rich, with Feather's
Court, and the town-house, and a lot of
other places. Then your father and
mother — what would they say ? Oh, it
is Impossible — impossible ! Let me go,
Hal, dearest Hal, now, once and for
all, and let us forget this — this folly ! '

You forget, Griselda ; I promised your
mother — '

Griselda hid her face and sobbed. It
was hard — oh, so hard ! This great prize
to be laid at her feet — this young man
whom she knew now to have been her
most fondly, though secretly, loved hero, to
be pleading and insisting at her feet — and
she must turn away and resist — she must
dare to say no word but a strong, firm * No.'

But she could not say it. Hal took
her in his arms and kissed her — kissed
her with that first kiss of love so holy,
so pure, that it rises above and kills all
other emotion.

You are mine now,' he said — ' mine,
Griselda, for ever. Look at me, and say,
Yes." '

She raised her head and looked straight
into his eyes with an earnest, wistful look.

I am yours as far as this,' she said —
you will do as you please, take me or
leave me. But I — I will never marry
anyone but you. I am bound, but you
are free ! '

We were both bound, long ago,' said
Hal, * since that day when you gave me
this.*

He took a worn little leathern purse
from his breast-pocket, and showed her

that little sprig of musk she gave him
years ago, when they parted at her
mother's grave. He might not have
thought of his little love for many months
sometimes. He had had his escapades
like other young men with plenty of
money to fling about, and great expectations
in the future. But he had kept
that as superstitiously as a heathen keeps
some hideous little idol.

And Griselda confessed that she had
Hal's chain locked up in three differently-sized
boxes, from which it came out on
great occasions.

As they left the hill-top and went
slowly down the narrow overhung path
into the valley, Hal, as he carefully
guided Griselda's footsteps over the
gnarled tree-trunks, feeling a thrill in
his first hot young love when her little

hand lightly rested on his arm or his
shoulder, disclosed his brilliant plans —
plans as bright and cloudless as the
grand sunset sky which turned the noble
Rhine into a blood-red river and gleamed
between the fir branches like red lamps.

There should be no more trouble for
the Vicar. It would be a privilege to
pay his debts. Sir Hubert would persuade
him to listen to reason on this
point ; Hal would see to that. Then the
Vicar must write a second book, not in
refutation of his theories, but ' pitching
into everybody all round, like Byron did
in his English Bards and Scotch Reviewers!


The reviewers once settled — and
your father can settle them with a few
strokes of his pungent pen,' went on
Hal, — ' we can take high ground with

the bishop. In point of fact, we might
ignore the bishop altogether. What willa
man of mark like your father want with
a doddering old fellow like that } There
are always dozens of appointments open
to men like him and Coles, and fellows
that aren't afraid to speak out. That'll
be all right. Then — then I shall claim
you, Griselda! I'll sell out, If you wish
it, or you will have to put up with
barrack life— Hallo ! What's that ? '

A man came leaping up the path as
they turned a corner.

He stared, as if amazed. It was Hugh.
He slightly saluted Romayne, then, turning
to Griselda, said that Mr Black had
been uneasy, and he had volunteered to
go to meet her.

Shall I go first ? ' he said, for the path
was too narrow to admit of more than two

walking, or, rather, picking their way
among the stones, abreast.

He had seen Griselda's bright smile,
her beautiful blush, her hand on Hal's
shoulder ; and, not having overheard
young Romayne's sanguine talk about
the Vicar, naturally attributed her beaming
happiness entirely to her preference
for her old playfellow.

So he went first, with a new bitterness
of heart, the sunset reflected upon his pale
sad face almost as if in mockery.

lOULD a new version of the
old, old story be retold in a
lovelier spot than Goarshausen
that bright summer time, when Griselda,
in spite of her sad childhood and serious
youth, was buoyant with the elasticity of
girlhood, — girlhood crowned with a happy
love ?

In itself the spot was so romantic.
Below the windows of the stone hotel,
the garden with its white paths among
the turf and flower-beds, with its straight
rows of acacias with their round bushy

green heads and slim stems, sloped down
to the broad, rapid-running Rhine. The
river was a marvel of loveliness. As it
streamed by the vine-clad mountains and
rocky heights, it had a fresh beauty each
hour of the day. Pale and mystic, it
murmured on in the grey light of dawn.
When the first red rays caught the
dancing wavelets, it changed from silvery
white to blood-red, then shone all colours,
like a gleaming pigeon's breast in the
sunshine ; at noon it surged onwards,
deeply blue, calmly unfathomable ; later,
its wavelets would foam into snowy
feathers, delightful to eyes that turned
from the afternoon sun-glare ; at evening
tide, it floated away into the distant
shadows with a soft murmur, as if echoing
its own tales and legends — legends
of hundreds of wonderful years, before

romance fled at the sound of the sullen roar
of the anti-romantic, ruthless steam-engine.

The river told different tales to different
minds. It was all things to all men. The
Vicar gazed from the window of his quiet
room, and gradually his harassed brain
and shattered nerves were refreshed. The
lovers, Hal and Griselda, read stories of
wonderful joys, of happiness undreamt of
by any human beings from Adam and
Eve until the very moment when they
met and loved.

Hal Romayne, his handsome dark face
aglow with success, his whole being
radiant with a certain insolence of the
conqueror which is so easy to forgive,
wandered through those green gardens
shading Griselda — who leant half timidly
on his arm — with a huge white parasol
he had purchased from one of the waiter

VOL. II. c

tribe who were always on the look-out
for unconsidered trifles when they scented
spooning or honeymooning. And Heaven
alone knows how many lovely lies were
cast off like beauteous bubbles under the
shade of that white parasol, which that
very season a bride had lost and had not
cared to reclaim, lest she might lessen
herself in the esteem of a young husband
who was still in possession of the proud
position of demi-god. Lovely lies, all of
which Griselda, with the patient beautiful
eyes, heard reverently, if wonderingly,
as she heard gospel truth. How Sir
Hubert Romayne, the bluff and proud,
would not only accept her as his son's
bride, but make her his darling. (He did
not think much of the girls, Hal added
parenthetically.) How Lady Romayne
would delight in supplying the place, as

far as she could — naturally, she could not
be expected to work miracles — of the
dear young mother Griselda had lost.
How Griselda's father, when his thoughts
were occupied with his daughter's engagement
and subsequent marriage, would
quite forget his fads about not being able
to believe this or that doctrine, and would
become, like any other reasonable incumbent
of a pretty country parish, in favour
with the powers that be and those whose
affairs those powers regulated.

I am so afraid he will mind ! '
Griselda ventured to say one afternoon,
as they were sitting under a spreading
tree on a grassy bank in the hotel garden.
Hall occupied in throwing a handful
of smooth white pebbles into the
river one by one. ' I am so afraid —
he — will mind ! '

'He! Who?'

Hal stopped and stared in astonishment,

My father.'

'Mind— what?'

My — being — engaged to you
faltered Griselda, blushing.

It had been agreed upon, at Griselda's
instance, that her father was not to bespoken
to on the subject of her and Hal's
mutual love until a certain day. Tomorrow
was that day. Griselda's reason
for the postponement was that Mr Black
was not well enough to think of serious
matters for some little time, after that
sudden, strange illness at Cologne.

Do I — understand — that you think
your father will not be pleased to give
you to me?' said Hal, astounded; and,
although he spoke gently, there was a
dangerous light in his dark eyes. ' It

is awfully bad form to talk of one's
position in the world, of course. But
you are such a simple-minded darling !
You quite Ignore what your status in
society will be as my wife. Of course
there Is the title ; then Feather's Court
is not the only estate. The rent-roll—'


Hal ! ' cried Griselda imploringly.
Pray, pray don't ! It is not that !
You don't understand ! It is just your
title and your money and your estates
that my father will object to — '

Then he is utterly unlike all other
fathers.'

He Is,' said Griselda simply. ' At
least, he Is unlike all other fathers who
want worldly dross for their children.
His heart is with the people — '

Excuse me, my dear, if I interrupt

you,' said Hal cynically. 'You are the
dearest girl, but you are utterly inexperienced.
I cannot allow you to lay
down the law to me about what this
man thinks or the other man does — '

'No, no, dear Hal — of course not!'
Griselda laid her pretty white hand on
his coat - sleeve, almost dismayed. * I
should not have doubted, I should not
have dreamt of such a thing — only — '

She hesitated. Hal threw a stone
viciously into the river.

Only what ? Don't hang your head
like that, Griselda ! ' he cried. ' Outwith
it ! Only — what } '

Only — Hugh spoke to me,' faltered
Griselda. ' You know, since he came
to the vicarage as a pupil, he has been
so kind and good, looking after my
father and advising me. Well, he

saw — at least — he got an idea into his
head how things were going with us —
I'm sure I don't know how or why, for
father hasn't noticed anything, I know.
Well, he spoke to me yesterday — '

'Very kind of Mr Blunt, I am sure,
to interfere with my affairs!' muttered
Hal, his cheek paling with jealous

ancrer.

Hal ! He never mentioned you.
He merely reminded me of my father's
opinions — of his painful position, with
the odium attached to that book and
the bishop's suspension ; then he talked
of Sir Hubert and Lady Romayne —
how proud they were — '

And you listen to an impertinent
jackanapes's opinion of my father and
mother, — the opinion of a fellow who
never spoke to either of them in his

life, and who, thank Heaven, is never
likely to ; upon my word, it's too
much ! '

Hal sprang up, went away, and leant
disgustedly against the tree. Griselda
followed him, anxious and penitent.

Poor Hugh ! All the time he has
been like a brother. I don't know —
what I should have done without him ! '

A tear fell on his hand, which she
had seized. Melted at once — what very
young man as wildly, passionately in
love as Hal was, would not be moved
at the touch of his adored one's tears ?
he said, with mild sarcasm, —

Brother ? A brother like Tom and
Harry ? '

Oh no, Hal ! Quite, quite different !

• Like young men generally are to
other people's sisters, I suppose .-^ '

Hal felt relieved by this sneer. He
had suspected that the Vicar's faithful
pupil, Hugh Blunt, was In love with
Griselda. Who could talk to her and
watch her sweet candid face for a whole
hour without being bewitched aud enchanted
?

The man who could see her, not
only day after day, but week after week,
and month after month, and not adore
her, would be a stock or a stone,' he told
himself. ' I must not be hard on the
poor unfortunate devil for his miserable
attempt at prevention of the inevitable.
I should have done worse in his
case.'

He was gazing half - fiercely, half-lovingly
at Griselda, and she was
wondering what the look meant.

You have no reason to be angry

with me, Hal,' she said, with gentle
dignity.

I know that. But, darling, you
must give me your promise, your word,
that no one shall come between us.
You owe It to me.'

I could not go against my father,.
Hal. And, even if he consents, and Is
pleased, as you seem to think he will
be, I could not go against your
parents.'

You are very complimentary, I must
say ! ' said Hal, all the more Irritably,
because Griselda's words embodied some
vague forebodings of his own. ' I never
have been contradicted and interfered
with, and I never mean to be. You
seem to forget that my will is pretty
well law In my family.'

Oh no, I don't ! '

Grlselda spoke as if the fact were a
dreadful one. Hal laughed ; Griselda's
awe of his spoilt state flattered him.

I see you know the family have made
to themselves a god, and that they bow
down to it,' he said good-humouredly.
Well, the god is generous. I am not half
so tyrannical as some family deities. But
it is ridiculous to talk of my father and
mother opposing any wish of mine. And,
as this is the case, you can imagine how
incensed I am at the daring of a rank outsider
presuming to meddle. Don't look
at me reproachfully, Griselda ! I shall take
no more notice of your Mr Blunt than I
should of a Cologne street cur who flew
out of the gutter and barked at me. But
matters must be placed on a secure footing
at once, so that I don't have a repetition of
this sort of thing.'

Hal did not let the grass grow under his
feet. Early next morning he knocked at
the Vicar's bedroom door.

Mr Black was reading in bed, propped
up with pillows. He looked worn and
thin, but smiled at Hal and laid down his
book. He liked talking with this bright,
handsome young fellow, who was so peculiarly
respectful and sympathetic.

Hal began the conversation cautiously.
Somehow the Vicar was expansive with
him. It was easy to steer the talk till it
reached the very core of John Black's
worries. Hal even gently introduced the
subject of the sceptical book. He repeated
conversations he had heard at his
father's dinner-table, which, because of the
Griselda interest, he had remembered.

Some were quite for you,' he went on.
One old fellow, a quaint pedantic scholar

I daresay you know him — Professor
Blackett, of Cambridge, who wrote those
celebrated Comparisons between Plato and
Aristotle — said, quite excitedly — I recollect
it well, because the fellows present
said they had never seen Blackett so
roused, before — '' How dare a man be a
preacher at all, if he does not intend to
encourage thought in others ? It is not
the thought, but the want of thought,
which is the mischief. No man who thinks
will ever do much harm." I remember
that speech very well, because it set me
thinking in my small way.'

So Blackett said a good word for me,
did he ? ' said the Vicar contentedly.
Well, now, there is something odd about
that. He is a man I revere for his learning
and his intense devotion to the subjects
he chose for his life-work. But,

although he is known to receive men interested
in science whenever they choose
to seek him, I have never succeeded in
meeting him. When I was first appointed
to Crowsfoot, I was invited to dine and
sleep at the bishop's, '* to meet Blackett."
I went, full of expectation. At the last
moment came a telegram from the professor.
He could not come. Some years
later, Serjeant Showman, the Q.C., was to
have some men at his rooms. He invited
me. Blackett was to be there. I was
in an ante-room, looking at some microscopes
Showman had recently bought,
when a tall old man passed through.
They said it was Blackett. I got into
the larger room just in time to see him
pass out. He had started all in a hurry,
suddenly — remembering some engagement,
not a surprising thing at all in so

absent a man, of course ! Well, the third
time, a young fellow I had helped a little
before his exam, came out first in the
Tripos, and insisted upon my going to
stay with him at his rooms at C. College.
Well, he found out this fancy of mine to
have a talk with Blackett, and left no
stone unturned to manage it for me. Of
course the prize-men, the mental athletes
who have been crowned at the contest,
carry all before them during the first
bloom of their triumph. So one of the
dons gave a dinner, and invited Blackett.
Would you believe it ? At the last moment
he sent an excuse. So we were
thirteen at table, and drank to the thirteenth,
who was to be promoted before
the year was out. It is curious, is it not
I mean the coincidence ? '

If it had been anyone else, I

should have said he purposely avoided
you.'

But in my case that could not be.
Blackett does not know me from Adam.
He sees hundreds of insignificant fellows
such as I am.'

But he certainly took great interest in
you,' said Hal musingly. ' I recollect now
he said that you should not defend your
opinions, either privately by letter or conversation,
or publicly by articles or letters in
the ecclesiastical papers. He thought you
ought to write another book strengthening
your position and establishing your views.'

I thought of that,' said the Vicar, sighing.


How lightly this young man spoke of
writing and publishing! There was the
cost, and, even if all went well, there was
that close heavy work. This brought

Griselda to his thoughts — Griselda, without
whose patient, constant help another
book — and a book which would require
such mental labour as well as tact and research
— could not be among the possibilities.
And he spoke of her to the
young man, little dreaming of what he
did, till Hal began. . . .

He told him of their childish friendship
; he lauded Griselda to the skies ;
he said that, whatever hope of lofty aims
and pure feelings he had, he owed to
the ideal she had given him of what a
human creature might be. He even went
so far as to say that, but for Griselda, he
should have followed the fast fellows in
his regiment, and have * gone to the bad.'

Now, now, my dear boy ! You are
extravagant ! '

But Hal would or could not see it just

VOL. II. D

then. For some months past his Hfe had
moved along dully, quietly, and he had
felt bored. The reaction had set in ; he
was the old passionate, impetuous Hal,
brooking no interference with, or contradiction
to, his wishes.

But you have not seen Griselda for
months ! ' The Vicar, for whom Griselda's
affairs had always a tinge of ' play ' about
them — she was but such a child after all !
was almost amused. ' Ah ! my dear
boy, live a few years longer, then talk as
you have talked just now about some fairer
and fitter damsel than my one little —
lamb ! ' Beginning his speech almost
jocosely, he felt suddenly touched v/hen
he thought of his devoted daughter.

Had he not been Griselda's father, Hal
would have resented John Black's talking
to him as if he were a raw lad in his teens.

But, being this — being in possession of
Griselda, as it were, — he repressed his
annoyance, he suppressed his turbulence.

But he sat down by the Vicar, and
pleaded long and earnestly. He said he
knew Griselda was not averse to accepting
him as her future husband.

He was detailing his plans for her
comfort, her pleasure, her happiness, when
a gentle knock came at the door, and
Griselda came in.

She wore a cotton dress, with a forget-me-not
pattern. Her fair cheeks, often
as pale as a white rose, bloomed pink
and fresh ; her golden hair was knotted
into a large soft yellow knot upon her
long slim neck.

To her boyish lover she looked like
some wood nymph coming straight from
the dewy woods with all the fragrance

LIBRARY

IIISil\/ci;>«iTV nr ii i omni

of the opening flowers, the sweetness of
the morning air, the gent of the early
sunlight about her as an atmosphere.

She had a cup of tea in her hand. She
started and looked somewhat anxiously
at Hal before she took this to her father's
bedside. Then she looked still more
anxiously at the Vicar.

Oh, Hal had told! There was a lookin
her father's eyes, half grave, half sympathetic,
which convinced her of that.

She sat down by the bed, and turned
her face as far away from both of them
as she could.

Hal went up to her eagerly.

I could not help telling your father,'
he said, almost apologetically.

Oh ! So you two have been talking
nonsense together as well ? Is it so,
Griselda ? '

Whatever has been talked of — I mean,
I talked against her wish — did I not,
Griselda ? '

If I had not wished to listen to you,
I should not have listened,' said Griselda.
Papa, is he wrong or right ?'

You are neither of you wrong or
right ; you are a foolish boy, Hal — and
Griselda — oh, I should not have thought
you so silly ! We may venture to talk of
such things, seriously — if we are still in
the same mind, remember — some years
hence. But now — well, children must
have their play, I suppose, like puppies
and kittens. There — go — both of you —
no, you go first, please, Mr Romayne.'

Hal was compelled to accept the Vicar's
banter, and to console himself with the
reflection that perhaps it was not all
banter ; only that, considering his and

Griselda's youth, and his position as
eldest of the young Romaynes, Mr Black
did not like to commit himself.

But, banter or no banter, the instant
the door closed upon him, the Vicar
began to interrogate his child. While
Hal was speaking, John Black had
thought somewhat bitterly of his poor
child's motherless position. He had
thought how Griselda would have gone
to her mother, and how the two would
have talked of a new love, a new care
coming into their lives, just as women
talked of their little pink babies, or
toddling children, or young broods of
yellow chicks and ducklings.

It was a dreadful responsibility for a
man to have to deal with a young
daughter's first love. He felt nonplussed.
It would have been easier to him, weak

though he was at that moment, to fire
off the cannon at the rock hard by, or
to deliver an extempore oration, in elegant
Latin about the beauties of the
Rhine from his bedroom window. As
the instants went on, he grew more
nervous. He felt he must say something,
so he blundered out with, —

Now — Griselda — what — what does all
this mean ? '

Griselda had recovered her composure,
and answered at once,

My best way will be to tell you all
from the beofinninor.'

Then she gave an accurate account of
her meeting and conversation with Hal
on the hill yesterday — at least, with the
one exception of the betrothal kiss.

Well,' said the Vicar judicially, ' do
you not think you are very foolish ? '

Grlselda paused, then said, * No.'
What ? My Griselda losing her common
sense ! '

Do you not think I could ever —-oh,
father, might I not be Hal's wife some
day?'

I cannot say I wish to see that day,'
said the Vicar gravely. ' The Romaynes
rank far above us in the social scale, and
are as purse-proud as any persons I ever
met. Depend upon it, dear, it is best tomate
with equals. And for a man — I
know nothing about women — it would be
better, if he must do one or the other,
to marry beneath him rather than that
his wife and her family should look down
upon him.'

Then — then — you say —-no ? '
My dearest child, how can I say either
yes " or " no '' until I have been asked ?

I cannot listen to an offer of marriage
to you from a young man under age.
You, such a child! You are talking
absurdities. There — kiss me and go —
and — Griselda ' — she returned somewhat
reluctantly — ' not one word to Mr Romayne
till I come down — do you hear ? '

'Yes, father.'

Griselda flew upstairs to her room with
burning cheeks. On the landlnof she
came face to face with Hugh Blunt.

'What is the matter?' he asked.

Not much.'

She would have passed him and gone
on to her room ; but he detained her.

I would not pry into your secrets but
that I am still, so to say, on guard.'

There is nothing that you may not
know.'

I think I can cress,' said Hugh, seriously

but kindly. ' I have eyes. Sa
have others — so you must take care. Mr
Romayne has asked your father to let
you marry him, has he not .^ Ah — I see
yes! Well — he is very young. But
some are for young marriages. What
does your father say '^. '
Laughs.'

Laughs — does he ? '

Hugh, who looked pale and tired,
gazed down the corridor, with its patches
of light coming from the side-windows,
and thought half stupidly that the passage
of life was something like that. First
a bit of dark shadow, then a patch of
light, then shadow again.

Laughs — does he ? ' he repeated absently.
' Well, I don't think I should
laugh, if I were he.'

What would you do ? '

I think I should be very angry at his
daring to speak to you on such a subject
don't shrink, Griselda! I may be
wrong. I must not hurt you — although
well, I may as well tell you — this has
hurt me very much. I did not expect
you to be so rash, so precipitate. But
you — what do you say in the matter '^. '

If she had looked at him — if she had
seen his drawn face, the anxious, pained,
loving look in his eyes — instinct would
have checked the words before they left
her lips.

If I do not marry Mr Romayne, I
shall never marry.'

Hugh felt for the moment as if he
had received an ugly stab. Then, with
a slight shiver, he rallied himself.

*That is the right spirit,' he said
kindly. ' But excuse me if I say you are

very young, Griselda. Now, I want you
to promise me one thing — will you ? '

Certainly.'

Griselda started when she saw his ashen
face.

If you are in any trouble — I don't
care what the trouble may be — but any
trouble — whether it be night or day —
that you may want help — you will send
for me ? '

Griselda, wondering, sorry, promised.
Then she went to her room, worried,
perplexed, scarcely happy, as she had
expected to be.

Presently, when she thought her father
would be downstairs, she went down.

A waiter was hovering about the staircase,
watching for her. He beckoned
her mysteriously aside, and placed a
sealed envelope in her hands.

6i

For my father ? ' she asked.

Oh no! Of that he was certain. It
was most certainly for the Fraulein from
the Herr who had just left by the steamboat.


Griselda gazed vaguely at the man,
then at the envelope. Tearing it open,
she saw — foreign bank-notes ! She knew
the blue, greasy papers well.

Her heart sank. What did it mean ?
Collecting herself, she went into the .


HE ' Spelse-Saal' of the Goar-
shaken Hotel was quite a fine
saloon for a tourist halting-place
on the Rhine. It had the usual slippery
floor, huge mirrors, and somewhat gaudy
painting and gilding.

Griselda, glancing rapidly round the
long table, saw many strange faces —
scarcely one that she had noticed before
ladies well dressed, vulgarly dressed,
ill-dressed ; a sprinkling of bald-headed
Englishmen, a few Heidelberg students
with well-gashed faces — not one young

Englishman that looked like Hal Romayne
or Hugh Blunt.

Before her father came in, she must
know the contents of that envelope.

She had been too giddy and sick with
apprehension to see the name on the card
enclosed. As she sat growing paler and
paler — she had sunk into the corner of one
of the giant red velvet sofas — she twisted
the envelope with her trembling fingers.

One of them had gone away, and had
left her — yes, it was a horrid truth — had
left her, money.

Which one ?

She tore open the envelope desperately.
The notes and the card fell to the ground.
As the card fell she saw the name ' Hugh
Blunt'

In that instant of fear, lest the name
should be * Henry Romaine Griselda

knew that men might come and men
might go for ever ; but that there existed
but one man in the world she could
love, beside her father and brothers, and
that his name was Henry Romayne.

Her joy ! Her elation! Her passionate
inward thanksgiving ! She was down
on her knees, picking up that ' miserable
card,' as she thought it, and ' those
wretched German notes,' declining the
aid of old gentlemen and waiters alike
so sweetly that they felt quite annoyed
that so lovely a girl would not let them
help her.

One of the Heidelberg students, who
had noticed that * something went not
well with die Klein' as they had nicknamed
Griselda, looked benignly at her
through his spectacles, and was preparing
to leave the table and blandly afford his

assistance — a Heidelberg student would
scarcely go through the farce, to him, of
offering It — when Hal opened the door
of the Spelse-Saal, looked astonished to
see Griselda fumbling about under the
sofa for the .last fluttering dirty old note
and went towards her.

What Is it ? ' he said, while the student,
who had taken an inveterate dislike
to the young milord who was ordering
champagne and rhelnwein last night, and
actually leaving half-bottles for the unappreciative
Sellers while he remained
a thirsty student — sat down again la
disgust.

I don't know,' said Griselda vaguely.

Give me those papers, and come out.'

Hal gave her his arm, and, crunching
the notes In his unoccupied hand, took her
out, through the hall, Into a sort of con-vol.

II. E

servitors, where there were some shrubs
in clay pots and a rustic seat. Then he
released her, faced her, and stretched out
his hand.

Give me that — rubbish,' he said.
Who sent— it ? '

Mr Blunt.'

*What for?'

This was quite another Hal, speaking
with the assumed calm of growing temper.

I — can't tell — till I have looked at the
card ; you have it there — among the
notes.'

Hal unclenched his fingers, carefully
taking out the card so that Griselda
might not see it, and read poor Hugh's
pencilled message.

'Griselda dear, — Do not think harshly
of me for leaving you ; but, seeing that
you have so able a protector, I feel my

place is at home with my mother, who is
ill, and to whom I ought to have gone
before. Use the enclosed, your father's
hardly-earned money. Accept nothing,
and remember your promise to me.'

Hal read the carefully-pencilled tiny
writing.

You have read this ? ' he said, in a
voice that was so unlike his own ; it hurt
Griselda, innocent as she felt.

'No.'

'Then the unpleasant duty of telling
you you have been grossly insulted devolves
upon me,' said Hal. ' Come,
Griselda, before you and I can make
any arrangements about the journey, or
your father, or anything, I must know
what — this — means.'

Means?'

I must know on what terms you have

been with this fellow. Have you been
engaged to him, and thrown him over ? *

'Hal! I engaged!'

'Well, then, this is a very serious affair
that is all I can say,' said Hal, handing
her the card.

Griselda read it. The tears rose to
her eyes.

Poor — kind — Hugh ! ' she said.

Hal's attitude and expression would
have done credit to any of the warlike
Heidelbergers in the Speise-Saal. At
first his wrath bid fair to burst out. If
it had — if that fair little head had bowed
down to the storm of Hal's anger — then
Griselda's patient pilgrimage through life
might have been a very, very different
one.

But that pure Marguerite-like girl looking
straight up at him with those fearless.

innocent, loving eyes, had the power in
these early days to tame the lion of ill-temper
within him. He softened.

I — I love you so,' he said, raising her
cold hand and kissing it, ' I cannot bear
anyone to think a rude, rough thought
about you, my darling.'

Then he took her in his arms and
looked at her with anxious inquiry. And,
while he tried to interpret her expression,
he spoke gently of the necessity of her
confiding in him absolutely and entirely,
and of his being head of the three until
the Vicar was safely back again in England,
his affairs settled, and he himself
once again in good health. He found out
that Hugh Blunt had told Griselda he
owed her father a great deal of money.

Then he can settle his accounts with
your father another time, Griselda/

You won't send those notes back unkindly,
Hal?' He has been so good, so
thoughtful, all through that dreadful time !
It seems so ungrateful.'

I will do all that is just and right,' said
Hal, almost grinding his teeth as he took
Griselda back to the Speise-Saal. And
with that promise she had to be satisfied.

Mr Black was awaiting them, sitting
alone where his party usually sat. The
waiters had ' known nothing' of the Fraulein's
movements when the Vicar inquired
for his daughter, gifted as they were
with the peculiar discretion that seems
part of the nature of a German waiter
of the superior class.

So John Black was waiting. He was
leaning back in his crimson-covered chair
with the gilt nails, outwardly in contemplation
of the fan - leafed plant in

the plated cooler before him, inwardly
thinking over the events of yesterday
and of this morning. His eyes were
partially open to the fact that Hugh
Blunt's devotion to him personally meant
interest in Griselda. Hal Romayne's
youthful enthusiasm had helped to this
conclusion. He could not quite comprehend
Griselda's attractiveness ; butin
this paternal denseness he was not
alone.

Of course he did not actually intend
to allow, of all persons, a mere
boy to mend his affairs. But Hal's
talk this morning had roused him.

Where is Blunt ? ' asked the Vicar,
as Romayne and Griselda seated themselves.


Hal shrugged his shoulders. The
waiter who had secretly conveyed

Hugh's sealed envelope to Griselda
and the waiter who had offered to
help her pick up the bank-notes exchanged
glances, as, a few minutes
ago, they had exchanged confidences
outside the Seal.

Sare ? ' said one, pretending not to
understand.

Gone out, I suppose,' said Hal,
reddening ; he noticed, or thought he
noticed, the waiter who had brought
that letter, manoeuvering to catch
Griselda's eve ; and it was bitter to
him to have * a low fellow like that '
making sipfns to his future wife.

Griselda drank her coffee in peace.
She had been accustomed to Tom's
overbearing ways towards herself and
Jemima, and those rows between the
brothers, when good - tempered Harry

usually gave in. So, with her ideas
of male temper, she had not thought
Hal as annoyed as he really was.

She was congratulating herself on
her father's evident improvement — he
was talking quite cheerfully to Romayne.
Even Hugh Blunt's sudden
departure and Hal's temper could not
prevent that being a real joy.

Still, I must not expect such happiness
to continue,' she was telling herself.
' I must make the best of it
while it lasts, for how well I know
those troubles that come down upon
one suddenly, when one feels like
some nail that was just struck by the
hammer.'

She had barely come to the end of
her little moralising when a waiter,
seemingly flicking a wasp from the

table hard by, slid a twisted note
close to Griselda's plate, and pretended
to pursue the enraptured Insect.

She saw 'Urgent — Private' written
In pencil, then slipped away so quietly
out of the room among some people
who had finished breakfast, and were
leaving the Spelse-Saal, that neither the
Vicar nor Hal Romayne noticed her.

A milady Anglaise waits to see
mademoiselle,' whispered the principal
waiter - intrigant, pointing mysteriously
upstairs. ' I take meets to milady when
she read the note.'

Then he turned his back upon this
calm young English ' meets,' who seemed
such a strange centre to these mysterious
proceedings, and to make her
feel at ease began moving cups and
saucers upon a side-table, although

there was not the remotest reason for
his doing so, while Griselda read, —

If you have any regard for Mr
H. Romayne see me at once.

A Friend

She did not recognise the handwriting,
which was a trembling scrawl ; so she
asked the conspirator if the lady had
left her name. And, to the little man's
horror — he was a neat, dapper, little
man, with white shirt, spotless tie, and
sleek, short hair — she asked the question
in her clear penetrating treble, which
might easily be heard in the Spenser
and without a shade of the
English milady's ' agitation when she
had slipped half a- sovereign into his
hand, and had almost pathetically implored

him to take her to some saloit
not In use, and to persuade Miss Black
to come to her unknown *to anyone.

Hush-sh-sh ! ' he said, frowning ;
then he ran upstairs, beckoning so
energetically that Griselda followed.

Who could it be — Lady Romayne ?

The conspirator opened the door of
a hot, stuffy room with crimson walls,
carpeting, and those ruddy velvet chairs,
and, closing it upon his captured
English meets,' stood waiting In the
corridor, as he had promised the milady
to do, to prevent the ladies being
disturbed.

The mysterious dame rose from her
seat as Griselda came in. She was
stout, with her grey hair well dressed
under a matronly bonnet, and gorgeous
skirts of pale Indian silken material.

She lifted her veil, and Griselda saw
the angry face of Lady Romayne.

Lady Romayne had been struggling
to be cool and composed with Griselda.
But, when she saw the fair beauty of
this self-possessed, innocent-faced girl,
and felt what a peculiar power this
combination of so many qualities in
one woman must necessarily have over
her son's ardent, tempestuous temperament,
it was difficult to be calm, and
her voice trembled as she said, —

'My son is here. Miss Black?'

Yes,' said Griselda. ' I hope nothing
is wrong ; do sit down.'

Then she seated herself quietly on a
chair near Hal's mother, accepting Lady
Romayne's actual rudeness of manner,
and folding her hands as quietly in
her lap as if she were talking to Doctor

Mayne at home at Crowsfoot, or to his
kind old wife.

Was this girl's behaviour daring, or
impertinence, or ignorance, or defiance ?
Lady Romayne trembled with mingled
fear and vindictiveness.

Her lips were so dry she could scarcely
articulate.

You ask me what Is wrong, Miss
Black ? Are you so lost to all sense of
propriety, or have you never learnt It ?
Our son leaves us, without a word,
without explanation or notice, and runs
away after you. If It had not been for
the sagacity of our good, honest courier,
we should have employed detectives to
find him. Think of the disgrace — ourson,
who is to be Sir Henry Romayne
some of these days, and will marry Into
some old family — being run after by detectives,

and everyone in society hearing
of it ! I wonder at you turning temptress
when you and your father ought to be
hiding your faces somewhere, after he
has behaved as he has — writing that
horrible book — '

Griselda, who had stared and had bitten
her lip during Lady Romayne's tirade,
rose at the mention of her father's name,
and peremptorily said ' Stop ! ' Then,
before Lady Romayne had had time to
see what Griselda was about, she had
rung the bell — a peal that could be
heard down below.

The remainder of our conversation had
better be with my father and Mr Romayne
here,' said Griselda quietly ; then the door
was opened, and the conspirator appeared,
somewhat scared by his sudden summons.
He had barely walked a few yards up and

down outside in the corridor, wondering
what this mystery all meant, before the
ring came, and Griselda said, as soon ashe
appeared, —

Please tell Mr Black and Mr Romayne
that Lady Romayne is here.'

You audacious girl ! ' sard milady, too
taken aback to negative the order.

She could have burst into hysterical
tears ; but with a superlative effort, controlled
herself, and only said falteringly, —
To think — that your good little mother's
daughter should turn out — thus ! '

Griselda paled. It was a hard thrust.
As Lady Romayne moved restlessly to
the window, two large, cold tears rose into
her eyes. She remembered that scene
at her mother's grave, and Hal, a little
boy, standing at her side, so chivalrous
and reverent. She wiped those tears

away as if they were sacred. And,
sitting there, still as some marble monument,
she told her sad soul that no part
of her being must disgrace that dear lost
mother, that dear living father, or her
promised husband, Hal ; and she said
God teach me ! ' in her heart, as she used
to say it years ago, at night, kneeling up
in her little bed, and wondering which
of the stars were mother's eyes watching
her to see if she took care of father and
the boys.

Then in came — first Hal, then John
Black — happily by no means dismayed by
his distinguished visitor. The Vicar bowed
gravely. Hal — pale, with a curious light
in his eyes — went across to his mother,
after a survey of Griselda which told him
at least a little of what her interview
with Lady Romayne had been.

VOL. II. F

What is this ? ' he said.

A charming way to receive me, your
mother, after all we have suffered ! ' and
at last Lady Romayne buried her face
in her pocket-handkerchief and sobbed
out an incoherent complaint — running
away after people — leaving his family —
scandal — detectives — the talk of the
county — loss of position, et caetera — Lady
Maria Wick's hand could not possibly be
asked for by Sir Hubert, and so on.

My mother is hysterical,' said Hal
contemptuously, turning to the Vicar.
This is no place for Griselda, Mr
Black.' Then he went to Griselda, and
said imploringly, * Dear love, you will
go with your father — just for a little
while, will you not .^ As soon as my
mother is better, I will bring her to
your room.'

Thank you,' said Griselda, with a
grateful look. But she did not take his
offered arm. She went to her father, who
was standing by the excited Lady Romayne,
and said, 'Father, what am I to do.^'

Stay a while,' said John Black, in his
old, firm, resonant tones. As he stood
there, his strength seemed to have returned
to him. He was the truthful outspoken
pastor of Crowsfoot, rough to some,
tender to others. Those dark, grave eyes
were fixed upon the sobbing woman penetratingly.
He understood what this meant
at once, and at once he acted as he
had intended to act — when he had thought
what might come.

So soon ! ' he muttered. * Poor child !
But perhaps it is best so.'

Then he put his arm round Griselda, and
spoke firmly but not unkindly to Lady Romayne.

He expressed no regret that Hal
had left his parents, and had joined himself
and Griselda at Goarshausen, because he felt
none. He merely said that he was sorry
to see her so distressed, and wished to
know what he could do for her ladyship.
Meanwhile Hal, his hands thrust into his
pockets, was pacing the room and kicking
aside the chairs when they happened to
be in his way with such boyish rage that
the Vicar could not help smiling.

Do ? ' said Lady Romayne, with a
bitter glance at Griselda. ' You have
done enough already, Mr Black ! I will
not allude to painful matters. I will
merely state that you cannot expect Sir
Hubert and myself to consider you a
fitting acquaintance for our son. At
all events, until our good friend the
bishop — '

Here Hal, muttering an oath between
his teeth, sprang forward.

His eyes blazed, his hands were clenched.
He looked dangerous. Lady Romayne
sprang up with a little shriek. But the
Vicar had quickly stepped between them.

Don't behave like a schoolboy, or
worse he said, firmly grasping Romayne's
arm. ' Remember this Is your mother.
Remember what I said to you but an
hour or two ago. Only with your parents'
consent can you have anything to do with
me and mine.'

And that consent you will never have,'
cried Lady Romayne, less afraid of Hal
while John Black's thin but powerful hand
gripped his arm. ' Your father and I have
spent our lives planning and arranging
that you may occupy a foremost place in
society. Putting aside your ingratitude,

we are scarcely likely to allow ourselves
to fall at the last moment.' Then she
added, with a spiteful sneer, ' How can you
expect to be accepted into any noble family
when it is known that you ran all over
Germany after some girl ? '

All this time Griselda had stood close
to her father, pale but not unnerved.
Only when her lover's mother spoke her
taunt with such withering emphasis, she
gave a little shudder, and involuntarily
clasped her father's arm.

You had better not insult my future
wife,' cried Hal.

Here he stopped short, for Lady Romayne
actually screamed and put her hands
over her ears.

Oh, I see it all ! ' she went on. ' Oh,
the wicked, wicked plot ! I must — I must
claim your father's protection — '

Pray, accept mine meanwhile,' said
John Black, with a smile. There
seemed something so childish and pitiful
to him in this mother's altercation
with her son. ' And be perfectly at
ease on our account. Lady Romayne.
If my daughter should ever marry — which
is not very likely, for we have other
thoughts and aims in this life, she and
I — she will have to be asked for by
the parents of the man she loves with as
much ceremony as if she were a princess.
Her mother's daughter is too precious in
my sight to be lightly treated.'

John Black was thoroughly roused.
His temporarily clouded brain was
almost strong and clear as of old.

As he stood there, tall, with a certain
proud presence which was seldom seen
except by those he held in just contempt,

Lady Romayne's temper began
to subside. She even had an uncomfortable
sensation that she had not
made these people feel her grandeur
and her dignity as she had intended that
they should feel them.

She accepted the Vicar's arm, just
touching it with the tips of her fingers,
and said, more calmly, —

'Come, Hal!'

Hal started as if he had been stung.

'With you?' he said bitterly. 'Not if
I know it ! '

You cannot stay here, Mr Romayne.
If you stay, my daughter and I leave
by the next boat.'

'Griselda' — Hal went up to her —
what do you wish me to do ? '

Lady Romayne flushed a deep red.
He was her idol, that Hal of hers.

When she heard his voice, full of love
and tenderness, a few moments after it
had been insolently pitched when he
spoke to her — she had that acute punishment
of idol-makers when their living
idols turn upon them.

Oh, how she hated Griselda — even
when the girl gently said, ' You must
not stay, Hal!' What right had that
girl to look at her son with those big
eyes of hers, and to call him ' Hal '
before her very face ?

Then she gave a little jump, and
cried ' Ah ! ' For, after a long look at
Griselda, Hal came to her fiercely.

Do you see what you have done ? '
he cried. ' You have turned the only
being I really love against me. Are
you a fool — or are you playing into the
hands of Satan ? — if there be a Satan.

She would have made a good man
of me ; she would have kept me right.'

To think of leaning upon a woman is
confessing oneself a broken reed, Hal.'

The Vicar spoke kindly.

Were you a broken reed, sir ? Did
you not tell me what Mrs Black was
to you ? But it did not need telling !
Everyone knew — '

Yes,' said the Vicar hurriedly. ' But
but — I was a lone man, with no
responsibilities of wealth, of — of — old
family. You have these — and more.
Parents, sisters, younger brother — '

Then how do you explain that " a
man should leave father and mother and
cleave to his wife " } '

We will not open such a discussion,'
said John Black.

Scripture ! I should think not indeed

! ' said Lady Romayne emphatically.
She did not really mean to remind the
Vicar of his unfortunate treatise ; but
Griselda saw her father wince.

Father, let us go ! ' she said almost
passionately ; then she said ' Good-bye '
to Hal.

Heaven knew whether he would not
have kissed her there and then ; but
she was out of the room and away
before the three realised that she was
gone.

Hal sprang to follow her ; but John
Black stood in the doorway, and almost
thrust him back.

Understand,' he sternly said, ' both
you, Henry Romayne, and you, my
lady. If any communication be made
to my daughter by, or by the agency of,
any member of your family, I will never

allow her to speak to one of you — on
this earth again. Something tells me —
God knows what ! — some instinct — that
the day will come, Lady Romayne,
when you will perhaps be begging my
daughter of me as wildly, maybe as
hopelessly, as the rich man begged
that drop of water of the beggar
Lazarus. Therefore remember my

words, and be advised not to widen
the gulf — for it is a gulf rather than a
breach — which will lie between myself
and my daughter — and you Romaynes
from this moment.'

He bowed, and left them.

That man is a prophet,' said Hal.
He was checked, impressed — therefore
collected. * Madam — for to call you
mother would be a mockery — I am
ready to accompany you as soon as you

please along that broad and pleasant
road which leads, in any case, to a
better place than this red room has
been since I entered it. Do you wish
to stay here. Lady Romayne, as you
have succeeded in hunting out as well
as insulting my friends ? '

His mother took refuge in tears.

Hal rung the bell, ordered rooms for
his mother, and notified their departure
the following morning. Then, taking
no further notice of Lady Romayne, he
sent for his despatch - box and wrote
letters —-business letters to England — in
furtherance of the plans he was rapidly
making to be of assistance to John
Black and Griselda. The last letter
was for the Vicar himself.

My dear Sir, — I forgot to forward

you enclosed notes, which Mr Blunt — -
who was suddenly summoned home —
says, are your property. You were not
considered well enough to be told that
Mr Blunt had left Goarshausen so
suddenly. I had hoped to have been a
shield to you now. I may be — even
yet. Meanwhile, may God bless you,
and keep and cherish the one so inexpressibly
dear to us both — is the most
earnest prayer ever uttered by your
grateful Henry Romayne.'

Griselda came into the sitting-room,
her boxes packed, her little cloak on,
ready to start, when this letter of Hal's
was brought to Mr Black.

She had kept her composure well till
he handed it to her. Then she gave a
sad little cry.

Oh, father, what shall I do ? '

John Black drew the slender creature
on his knee, and held her head on
his shoulder. He heard her sob ; but
he merely stroked her head and let her
cry.

My lamb has taught me a lesson,'
he said caressingly. ' I faced the storm,
too self-reliant, and it beat me down,
ay, to the very ground. But she bends
to it — so it w411 pass over.'

Oh, I am glad, glad because you are
stronger ! ' said Griselda, raising her head,
and smiling through her tears. * Though
I do love Hal — father, ever since the
boys used to tell me that, if I waited
patiently, a prince would come for me ;
and one day, in the orchard, I was sitting
waiting, as usual, and Hal came,
so fine in his velvet and lace and finery,

that I thought he was a prince.' Then
she told the remainder of the childish
story, ending with — ' I would never,
never marry anyone else ! But it would
be wicked to mind Lady Romayne's talk
while I ought to be saying thanksgivings
all the time, for you are better, dear !
Oh, 1 know you are going to be well
now ! ' she went on, kneeling down, and
looking up into his face.

Your nursing — Hal's good-nature,
poor lad ! — and Blunt's devotion,' said
the Vicar musingly ; ' then that arrogant
woman — one thing with another — has
brought about a reaction, thank God,
Griselda ! I was delirious ? Yes ! I
said nothing anyone could understand ?
Well, they might have heard whatever
I had to say. I must be careful, though,
my child. But we will go home, you

and I ? We will be peaceful and quiet,
and I will battle through. There maybe
hard times — but I will shield my
darling — by thinking of her first, even
as she thought of me.'

Then there was a bustle outside, and
shouting, whistling ; the steamer had
arrived.

It was a hard moment when the last
bell rang, and John Black and his daughter
stepped on board to begin their return
journey. Griselda resolutely sat with
her face towards St Goar, her back towards
Goarshausen. She had given one
pitiful glance at the beautiful spot where
she had toyed and sorrowed' so sharply,
so rapidly. The sun was shining ; the
people were sitting under the trees in
the hotel garden. Beyond lay the narrow
valley, the wooded hill, and above

VOL. II. G

was the tall mountain she and Hal had
talked of climbing together.

She saw it all, and knew she most
likely would never see it again, except
in her dreams.

And Hal saw her. He had chosen
a shady corner where he would not be
noticed. He felt very dejected, forlorn,
miserable. It would have been some
consolation, he thought, if she would
have looked back and waved her handkerchief.
How quickly the steamer went !
Wind and tide both in her favour,
she was almost shooting down stream.
In a few minutes she would steam
past that dark grey mountain where the
trailing vineyards looked like green trellis-work.
She had reached the first cottage
of that hamlet nestling below the pass.
Now her funnels were black against a

white bridge — now she was being covered
by a rocky prominence on the bank he
stood upon — then his eyes grew misty —
the vessel was gone. Griselda was — gone !

A gun was fired, and the echoes of
the shots reverberated from hill to hill
all along the valley, like a parting salute.

He turned away, and went uphill. He
got to the clearing where they had been
so gloriously happy together. The sunshine
played about the waving boughs. It
was all so peaceful — so beautiful — and he ?

He was, he told himself, more forlorn,
miserable, and forsaken than the poorest
beggar that ever picked up a living in
the gutter.

It was a bad half-hour. But what
would it have been if he could have
seen a vision of himself — as he would
be — but a few years later ?

CHAPTER IV.

ROWSFOOT again — ten years
ago, when Griselda was a
child, a mere straggling,
tumble-down village. Now the autumn
sunshine poured down upon pleasant,
wholesome dwelling-houses. There was
a whole new lane of red-brick, picturesque
cottages, each standing in its own neat
garden, each with its porch and verandah,
yet honest sanitary dwellings for the poor.
This was called ' the Vicar's street.' He
it was who had not rested till, by dint of
saving, scraping, subscription-getting, and

working in with building-funds, he saw
his old friends and their children ' decently
housed, as Christians should be.'
When he first became their pastor — young,
strong, with his beloved wife, healthy and
sound, at his side — he had valiantly
attacked the many-headed dragon of
Crowsfoot deficiencies. Ponds were filled
in, cesspools discovered and destroyed,
ventilation insisted upon. The Vicar —
our Vicar,' as his humble friends proudly
called him — had taught his people physical
as well as moral lessons. The result was
a thriving, neat population ; a schoolhouse
known amongst schoolhouses as
the one which produced the best scholars.
A church, a model of simplicity, crammed
full at each service till late-comers subsided
into the porch. A rapid increase
in numbers, for the Vicar advocated early

marriages, and always smiled upon honest
attachments, even among the very young.
And last, but not least, a whole crop of
enemies — sprung from John Black's success.
One-third of the whispers that
had reached the bishop's palace were
the whispers of clergy and parishes who
envied John Black, and said, *A man
might easily create a model village who
had somebody to back him up.' Who
the ' somebody ' was, no one knew. If
they had been told that the 'somebody'
was the Vicar's steadfast will and unflagging
energy, they would have smiled
incredulously.

In ten years the great chestnuts had
grown more spreading still, and the
village green kept its green beneath
their stately shade. The schoolmaster
and mistress were aged. Their schoolhouse

was barely visible, covered by
a great wistaria. The blacksmith was
darker, tougher, and brawnier. The
forge was enlarged, and some of those
who toddled to the infant-school ten
years ago were now his apprentices,
beating the glowing red iron till the
sparks flew around the busy anvils.
Doctor Mayne was bent and old, and
drove a pony-chaise instead of a gig.
He kept an assistant now, a young
fellow who had passed his second Mab.,
who could hardly hide his contempt
for country practice, and who took care
to let the ' educated people ' among
Doctor Mayne's patients be well aware
that he would not have temporarily
accepted the position but that ' in the
M.D. examination they had a way of
asking you questions which you could

not answer, however good a theorist
you might be, unless you had practice.'
Mrs Mayne took good care of this London
Hight of the profession, but could
not help disparaging him to her feminine
friends, especially when they took
a stroll in the churchyard, after Sunday-morning
church — a favourite time for
the tit-bits of village confidences.

And the vicarage ? But little change
there. The quaint little ' front garden '
neat as ever. Within, the Vicar's coats,
hats, guns, fishing-tackle, and curiosities
all in their places. The old clock ticked
solemnly in the passage, its round whiteface
reflected in the glass of the barometer
opposite. The ' red parlour ' or
dining-room, looking upon the lane, was
more cheerfully arranged than it used
to be when the young house-mistress

Griselda was a mere baby, her mother
a hopeless invaHd, and Jemima housekeeper.
There was a modern easy-chair
for the Vicar, and a Library table ; and
the table near the crimson sofa had an
embroidered cover, and held books and
a vase of flowers.

The little drawing-room looking upon
the garden was left as it was when
Mrs Black lay for the last time on the
sofa under the window ; Griselda had
made white covers for the furniture.
But her mother's work-box was on the
table by the sofa ; the footstool on which
Griselda used to sit, watching the invalid,
was in its place. Also the screen which
the schoolmistress and some of the head-scholars
had worked, and all the little
knickknacks offered by sympathisers to the
poor lady who died with such sad slowness.

John Black had avoided this room,
Griselda went in dally, to dust and replace
fresh flowers and rearrange, as if
this were a domestic chapel and she
the sacristan.

This early September day was bright ;
soft breezes played gently with the nodding
dahlias. A young robin hopped
about the gnarled old apple-trees in the
orchards, twittering snatches of songs,
as if he were not yet sure of what he
really thought of the world. The apples
were mostly gathered. Some late plums
were still ripening on the brick walls,
and now and then a ripe pear fell from
the laden boughs into the long grass.
The figures moving in the field beyond
the garden were Griselda and Jemima.
Part of the field was mown for a .
The old cow and the

rector's horse looked on gravely from
a distance. They were accustomed to
those rows of white flapping linen now.
Griselda and her faithful old servant
had been waiting for Tom and Harry
to depart their several ways to ' get
through their wash.' A woman came
to do the hard part of the work, and
Jemima, who was lame and purblind,
hated to see Griselda helping with the
drying and folding, and would have
done it all herself; but since her young
lady had come back from ' furrin' parts,
she'd been changed like,' Jemima would
tell her gossip and crony over the way,
the wife of old James, the captain's
farm-bailiff. * She's got a queenly way
wi' her, which ain't like her blessed
mother one bit, and which takes a
rheumatic old body like me aback like.

And I can't say yea and nay in the
right places. But she's as beautiful asa
brand-new shining pin, and as straight ;
only she don't look to me, so to say,
strong. And, there — I do object to her
carrying' about those heavy linen sheets,
and a pegging them on the line! I've
often a mind to get up at dawn, just
when the birds begin to twitter, and doit
all myself. But, Lor' bless you ! my
old bones ain't what they was, nor never
will be ! '

Griselda, in her blue frock, her sleeves
rolled up, was ' queening ' now — she was
unpegging some fine things into a small
basket, and sent off Jemima with it indoors.

You get those nicely starched, and,
when I've got this tuneful done, I'll
come in and make that plum-pie for
father's dinner.'

Jemima went meekly. Yes, there was
a change in Griselda, even in three
short weeks. There were those two
lines about the mouth which tell of
drooping and compressed lips. Her eyes
were hazy, her cheek-bones were sharp,
her skin pale, and her pretty bare
arms far less softly plump than they
had ever been. She worked away
packing the dry linen into the baskets
all the more briskly because she was
anxious.

When they first returned, John Black
heard that the bishop was shooting
grouse in the North ; that all the
heads of the Everest firm were holiday-making,
and that the tormenting publisher
was shortly expected home from
Norway.

So he waited to see those enemies of

his, and went about his parish, where
he found that the cloud that hung over
him was well known.

His people received him so warmly.
It was welcome to every house, to each
cottage. But, though they were full of
talk, and were loth to let him depart,
following him to the door and gazing
after him wistfully, no one asked any
questions about himself. They told him
that the mild curate who was doing his
church-work, and who lodged at the
mill, was ' well enow as young parsons
went ' ; but they did not inquire whether
his throat was better, or when he would
preach them one of his old stirring
sermons again.

No, they think me a blasphemer,' he
said bitterly to himself; 'they, whom
I have cherished as brethren — ay, even

as my very own children in flesh and
blood — pity me, my God ! I see it in
their faces ! '

He went home ; and Griselda, coaxing
and consenting him as she had dared todo
since they were so closely brought
together at Goarshausen, heard his complaint,
and tried to talk him out of his
ideas.

Ah, well ! ' he said with a sigh.
Time mends all.' But Crowsfoot was
a painful pleasure now. Each landmark
each familiar face, the cottages, the
schoolhouse, the church he had restored,
his wife's green grave — were so many
reproaches. As he went about, he
seemed to hear, 'Why have you forsaken
us ? Why could you not live and
love on in simple faith, and not turn to
the *' strange woman" of Doubt — not only

telling, but publishing to the world her
sayings — which you can never recall ? '

No, that was where the shoe pinched.
He had run up a flag, and he must stick
to it.

Time — time will bring us through,' he
almost feverishly repeated. He waited
eagerly to hear that the bishop had returned.
Then he was off to town. He
had been in town nearly a week when
Griselda was busy with her linen in the
drying-ground. She was thinking, half in
fear, half in hope, of what news he might
bring. When the lines were empty^only
a peg or two hanging here and there — she
paused before carrying in the baskets, and
took the letter she had received from her
father that morning from her pocket.

Dearest, — I hope to be back with you

to-night, perhaps this afternoon. Then I
will tell you as much as I can of my
doings in this man-made metropolis, which
I would willingly turn my back upon once
and for all. Your Father.'

She had read it many times, trying to
guess facts from the spirit — the tone — of
the sentences. Was he sad — angered ?
He had so often said that old saying,
God made the country, man made the
town,' and hated bricks and mortar in
masses so, that his sentence about London
was no key to his frame of mind.

No ; she must be patient.

Then she read another letter, which had
arrived at the same time.

It was from Hugh Blunt. Her father
had told her to open all letters ; so she
opened this. It was the first they had

VOL. II. H

heard of Hugh Blunt since he left them so
suddenly at Goarshausen, and the letter
was to the Vicar.

My dear Sir, — I have been told you
are back at Crowsfoot. When can I
return to you ? And could you receive a
friend of mine who is very anxious to read
with you ? He does not mind about
quarters ; you could stow him away anywhere,
or he could share my room. He
is Lord Lisle's youngest son, and has
unmistakable ability for abstract science.
A line in return would oblige ; but, if this
finds you busy, we will take silence as
consent, and appear on the usual day. —
Always your grateful pupil,

Hugh Blunt.'

Pes. — It will be a charity to rid young

Bray of as much of his superfluity as you
will, for he is one of those uncomfortable
wealthy persons who do not know the
value of money till they can learn it. I
promise that, if you take Bray, he shall
not be the slightest trouble.'

Griselda thoughtfully folded and refolded
that letter. She had 'seen through'
kind Hugh's proposal. A rich pupil would
be a useful crutch just now. Would her
father take him ? She could detect that
Hugh, naturally rather rough and devoid
of tact, had worded that letter with minute
care, lest he should offend the Vicar's
sensibilities.

She replaced the letter in her pocket,
stroked the nose of the old horse, who
not having quite conquered his horror of
those oddly-shaped white things called
shirts, came up to salute her when the

clothes-lines were empty — then she bravely
lifted her basket and went staggering up
the garden-walks with it, brushing the
dewy cobwebs from the overgrown clumps
of fuchsia with her blue skirts, and, as she
panted, her pale face flushing till she
looked as ruddy as one of the tall hollyhocks,
her heart-beats were loud, and the
heavy basket creaked, so she did not hear
her father's footstep in the passage.

Griselda ! '

His cry startled her, she dropped
the basket. All the white linen went
tumbling down, some upon the gravel
walks, some upon the beds — crushing the
yellow escholtzias and the tender little
heartless.

There — she will do it, sir, and there's
no a saying of her nay ! '

Jemima, following her master, saw her

opportunity, and made a clean breast of
Griselda's self-will there and then.

There's many a strong lass in the
village as 'ud be thankful to earn a few-honest
pence ; look at miss, sir. She'll
be having a twisted spine of the back,
like poor Maria Brown.'

I will arrange all that, Jemima.'
I hope and trust that you will, sir.'
Jemima sniffed, and retired to the
kitchen. She had her own ideas as to
the Vicar's position in his own house.
Will you come to the parlour,

father

-i '

John Black said ' No, no ! ' emphatically.
He wanted no tea, he said, nor
dinner either — at least, not then.

I want air,' he said, eine out into the
sunlit garden, Griselda following, unrolling
her sleeves, and Jemima left picking

up the linen. ' Air — and home, and you.
Come, let us go into the orchard. Oh,.
Griselda ' — he stood still in the long grass,
looking haggardly round at those trees,
each one a familiar friend, at the quiet
September sky, the blue background of
the foliage — ' if you could only know the
difference between this and that great
awful city — the roughness, the turbulence,
the riot ! Lies beset you and follow you,
and, beat them away as you might a cloud
of summer flies, they return and pester
doubly. The only honest thing is bare
open sin ; swearing, fighting — at' least,
these are true. But, if a man be civil to
you, he is secretly lying and thieving; if
help be offered you, it is capital offered
you at one hundred per cent. Thank God
for every acre of ground untrodden by
man ! If air did not blow up from the

great ocean and from unpolluted wilds,
we should be poisoned ; the end of the
world would be that all must be suffocated
and smothered by sin.'

Griselda never commented upon her
father's outbursts. Now she merely led
him silently to a rustic bench which of late
years had been removed from the garden
into the orchard ; and, sitting by him on
the very spot where Tom had been digging
when Hal Romayne came stepping down
upon the grass like a fairy-tale prince, she
said, —

How was it ? Good, bad, or indifferent
? '

The Vicar hesitated.

Well — indifferent.'

Did you go to the bishop ? '

First of all. He was stopping at his
usual hotel. I thought to catch him at

about eleven. He was not 'about." I
had to wait while he breakfasted.'
Was he — kind ? '

A little starchy and stand-off, until
he mentioned your letter. He said,
Don't look guilty ; it is all right. A
man who possesses a daughter like
yours, Black, ought to consider he
has enough." He said your letter
*' touched him." Then, of course, we
had a discussion.'

What was settled '^. '

That matters are to remain in statu
qtio for the present, until I have tried a
second book. You must help me, darling,
as you did before, with those interminable
references. Then, whether I leave or stay
will be decided.'

Leave — or stay '^ ' Griselda did not
understand.

Leave the Church of England or stay
in it.'

You, so fit to care for everyone ! Oh,
father, the bishop cannot know, he cannot
dream of what you really are ! '

I thought of reslofnine before, Gris-ella,
when they were first down upon
me.'

But, if you resigned, what then ? '

I should be an ordinary layman, taking
pupils.'

Griselda produced Hugh Blunt's letter.
The Vicar read it carefully, twice.

Hugh is very kind,' he began ; then
he looked at Griselda. She was perfectly
unconscious of the meaning of his inquiring
france.

I cannot make it out,' he went on
thoughtfully. ' You and I have a secret
friend, do you know ? '

Grlselda's face and neck flushed crimson.
She turned her head away.

I will tell you went on the Vicar.
I have as yet only told you about my
interview with the bishop. My next
important piece of business was to seethe
Everests. I had no difficulty in finding
them. They were far more civil
than I expected. They acknowledged
that they were still agreed to remain in
the same position towards me in regard
to the '* treatise which had caused so
much controversy." But they said that
a client of theirs was willing to supply
me with the ready money I required, at
a moderate percentage.'

Oh, father ! ' Griselda, knowing the
low state of the Vicar's finances, brightened
up. ' Oh, I am glad ! You can pay
those wretched publishers.'

But I could not accept it, dear.'

Why not ? '

They refused to tell me the name of
their amiable client. That settled the
affair.'

Griselda had learnt a little of her
father's position. She never wondered
when he exclaimed against subterfuge
and deceit. She knew he had never
rightly known who he was, or under
what parental tree he might battle with
his fellows.

She shook her head unconsciously. Oh,
that money! If only human beings could
grow out of the ground and bear their
fruit calmly, nourished by their mother
earth, and by rain out of the pure sky !

I am sure the earth must think far less
of us than of the trees and shrubs,' she
said, speaking her thoughts aloud.

'Why?'

They grow from her ; they are pure
and fresh and sweet. But, when we
human creatures mingle with her, we are
nothing but rottenness and corruption.'

Griselda, you have a curious way of
thinking. I shall not come to you for
similes.'

She shrugged her shoulders.

Are you going to take this rich young
man, father ? I don't knows how it is ; but
he reminds me of the "rich young man"
who went sorrowfully away.'

I hope he will not. I hope they will
both come, darling. Then I can pay
those publishers.'

Do they refuse to wait ? '

I crave them a bill.'

o

What is that ? '

It is equivalent to paying them the

money. But the less you know of these
things the better I shall be pleased. Only
I may tell you this for your comfort,
darling. If Hugh and his friend do come,
I do not see any reason why we shall not
steer through quite comfortably.'

Then with all my heart I wish they
may come ! ' said priselda devoutly. ' I
will do all I can to make them happy ; I
shall only be overwhelmed with gratitude
to them for coming ! '

If she could have known, poor innocent
child ! of what complications were
in store — of what would arise out of all
this, those words would have been the
very last she would have spoken — she
would have indeed been at her very wit's
end.

But she had no misgiving, she felt no
strange warning. No single black bird

G^Hselda.

flew over her head; no warning wind
howled in the chimney, when she went
to her tiny bed-chamber that night ; no
dream even troubled her young mind as
she lay calmly sleeping. She was as untroubled
by presentiments of her coming
sufferings as a new-born infant is untroubled
by thoughts of death.

October — clear, frosty, the columns
of smoke rising straight
into the air from the chimneys
of Crowsfoot village, the woods around
growing wet in the morning sunshine,
masses of gold, red — every shade from
pale yellow to ruddy chesnut — the sparkling
white veil that lay upon the meadows
at early dawn melting gradually away.

Breakfast-time at the Vicarage ; a smallwood
fire burning pleasantly In the crimson
parlour ; the bright copper kettle
hissing away on its trivet ; a few logs and

the tiny bellows lying just inside the old-fashioned
brass fender ; the great tabby
cat Tim sitting up on the tiger-skin rug,
purring and blinking contentedly at the
first fire of autumn, and at his beloved
mistress Griselda, alternately.

Griselda was flitting about arranging
the breakfast-table. She wore a brown
woollen dress, and looked less careworn,
in spite of her hard work the last few
weeks. The young men — the Vicar's old
pupil Hugh Blunt, and his new pupil
Mervyn Bray, the youngest son of the
rich Lord Lisle — arrived a month ago.
There was more housekeeping for Gris-ella
in consequence, and she was working
hard to help her father with that second
treatise on certain Epistles. She was up
early, to arrange household matters with
Jemima for the day. Then, while Blunt

and Bray were shut up with the Vicar in
his study all the morning, she would ferret
out passages from the learned tomes —
some of them ancient ecclesiastical works
in Latin and Greek — which her father
would require for his next few pages. In
the afternoon she visited in the parish, or
took a class in the school, or presided at
a Dorcas meeting with her old friend Mrs
Mayne, or had a hard afternoon's mending
and darning at home ; for Jemima's eyes
had to be spared. Griselda often told
herself with a sigh that she was one of
those whose firework was rather to save
than make. But in the evenings, when
Hugh — who never alluded to the events
that happened during that German tour,
but was the same cheerful brotherly friend
as of old — would smoke and play cards
with young Bray in their rooms upstairs,

VOL. II. I

or go for a stroll with him, GriseLda
worked with her father in the study. She
knew the first — the condemned treatise by
heart. She not only knew the letter, but
the spirit of it, only too well. She had a
clear brain. The Vicar found her a great
help. Her thoughts marched alongside
his, as it were, and fell out of their ranks
when wanted. Last night John Black had
encountered a knotty point. He ran his
fingers through his hair, he leant back
in his chair and closed his eyes, thinking
deeply, to no purpose. He closed the
books. * I can do no more,' he said,
with a sigh, ' until I see a passage, which
I believe to be in a certain work of
Thomas Aquinas. I must wait. I cannot
leave those young fellows and go upto
town — to the Museum — they have it
there. I must wait.'

Don't you know anyone who has the
book ? ' Griselda asked.

The vicar thought that perhaps one of
the antiquarian booksellers might lend it
to him. But this little check had discouraged
him. Hard work accompanied
by anxiety was not a tonic.

Griselda had lain tossing, dreaming ;
then thinking, half asleep and half awake,
of her father's difficulty.

When she awoke in the morning, her
first thought was that Mrs Mayne was
going to London to-day on some business
with her trustees. Why not accompany
her, and see if she could get
Aquinas' treatises ? She had her mother's
trinkets, too sacred to be worn, but not
too sacred to be used for such a purpose
as this ; she might leave them with the
bookseller as some sort of guarantee.

She was thinking of this as she flitted
round the breakfast-table, when her
father entered, drooping, preoccupied.
He kissed her, then went silently to the
fire and warmed his hands.
Those boys not down yet ? '

I expect they will be directly,' said
Griselda.

Then she asked her father, point-blank,
whether she might accompany Mrs Mayne
to town.

What for ? '

He looked surprised.

Shopping.'

I never care for you to be away without
me.'

Here the young men came in, followed
by Jemima with the ham and eggs.
Hugh looked older and thinner, perhaps
because he had let hair and beard grow

as they would. Mervyn Bray was a
short, awkwardly-made young man, with
a large head for so poorly developed a
body, with a white face carefully shaven,
short thin hair carefully cut and smoothed,
and watery blue eyes.

With a beautiful morning, With Black,'
he vouchsafed, standing awkwardly behind
his chair — he spoke with a lisp, and
held both the Vicar and his daughter inconsiderable
awe ; ' and — dear me —
thereto the othman ! '

He sat down as the old man with the
leathern bag announced himself by rapping
sharply at the Vicarage door with his
staff, comforted by the fact that he would
now escape notice. He was shyer here than
anywhere in his own particular little world.

There were several letters with coronets
and monograms for himself; one or two

more practical-looking envelopes directed
to Blunt, and one letter for the Vicar.

Griselda was pouring out the tea, after one
glance that assured her that this letter was
not a disagreeable business communication.

If she could have seen the contents of
the neat little envelope !

Will no amount of teaching make the
present Vicar of Crowsfoot into an honourable
man ? Ask yourself, sir, how you are
treating your motherless daughter, allowing
her, as you do, to reside under the same
roof as young men who are known to be
her admirers, without even an older lady to
guarantee the commonest respectability.'

This note, or message, was carefully
written in printed characters, on a slip of
paper without watermark.

It was the first personal anonymous
letter John Black had received. At first,.

he could hardly believe the testimony of
his own eyes. Then he suddenly smiled
to himself.

'Hal!' he said. 'Poor lad! It has
not done him good, as I thought it would.
But how could he ? He cannot help
being his mother's son, of course. That
coarse-minded woman ! '

Nevertheless, the communication had its
effect. As he put it carefully away among
other papers in his pocket, he uneasily
wondered whether others had had similar
ideas, — whether, indeed, his presence
only were sufficient shield for his darling's
purity and honour.

Did you not say you wanted to go to
London with Mrs Mayne.'^'

Yes.'

By what train '^. '

The io"20, I think.

Then you had better make haste, and
I will walk to the station with you.'

This brief conversation set Griselda
wondering. Hugh Blunt was astonished;
and, as he saw Griselda's bright cheeks
and her eagerness to get away, he grew
grave.

He hung about the hall till she came
down, dressed for travelling, and holding a
small black bag.

Are you going to stay '^, ' he asked
casually, as they walked out and stood on
the doorstep, waiting for the Vicar.

Oh no ! '

Again that flush as Griselda nervously
clutched the handle of her bag.

Could I not, by any possibility, save
you the journey ? I should be so glad of
a run up to town.'

Oh no ; thank you all the same ! '

Supposing I were to escort you and
Mrs Mayne ? Supposing that, when you
reached the terminus, you saw me jumping
out of the next carriage ? '

Griselda looked at him with a sort of
hunted look, as if she asked, ' No peace —
not even from you ? '

While the Vicar came out, and both
father and daughter went briskly up the
road towards the station, Hugh uneasily
asked himself what this meant.

Mr Black was generally so averse to his
daughter's going out alone. Hugh could
scarcely indeed recall a time when he met
her walking by herself since Goarshausen.
Trusting her with kindly, good-natured,
but unworldly Mrs Mayne, who suspected
no one, could not be brought to believe
ill of anybody, and said, ' Poor soul, poor
soul ! ' when she heard of the hanging of

some notorious criminal. Trusting Gris-ella
with a woman who had once refused
to give a pickpocket in charge, although
he had possessed himself of her purse containing
twenty pounds !

It is not like the Vicar,' he said to himself.
He would be wretchedly uneasy till
Griselda was safely home again. Hugh
loved her more dearly than ever — perhaps
all the more dearly because he buried that
love so deep down in his heart. He had
heard of the break with the Romaynes»
And, although he did not know it himself,
he hoped that perhaps some day Griselda's
heart would dethrone its idol and incline
towards him.

Mrs Mayne was at the station when
Griselda walked in, and the Vicar, following,
came up to her.

Can I have a word with you ? ' he

asked. ' Griselda will take the tickets — go,
dear ; ' he had given Griselda money for
her shopping as they walked along, little
dreaming what that shopping was to be.

Mrs Mayne, red-faced, a little anxiously
peeping into her bag, or pinching her reticule,
or fumbling in her pockets to be quite
sure she had not forgotten anything, said, — ■

'Certainly, Mr Black! I am to have
dear Griselda with me. Delightful ! '

But her face changed when the Vicar
drew her aside and abruptly spoke to her
of a rumour he had heard that Griselda
was too young to preside at the Vicarage
while he received young men as pupils.

Goodness gracious, Mr Black ! Whoever
can have said that .^ '

Then it has never occurred to you ? '

I should think not ! Griselda of all
girls!'

Then Mrs Mayne suddenly thought that,
after all, there was something in this. All
who knew Mr Black and Griselda could not
somehow possibly think of them in the
same hour with impropriety; and one of the
pupils was Mr Hugh Blunt, that earnest,
staid fellow who was such a favourite, and
the other that poor little Mervyn Bray!
Still outsiders miorht think and talk.

Do you think there is any admiration
at least, there must be for a beautiful
girl like Griselda — I mean, do you think
either of them is in love with her ? '

Mrs Mayne, both these boys are
gentlemen.'

Hush — here she comes ! We must
talk this over another time ! ' said Mrs
Mayne hurriedly, and rapidly changing
the conversation.

But Griselda's thoughts were fixed upon

her errand ; and she kissed her father, and
helped Mrs Mayne arrange her parcels and
cloak and umbrella in the carriage so calmly,
in spite of the roar of the engine and the
bustle there always was at Crowsfoot Station
when a train condescended to stop there,
that the doctor's wife felt quite angry with
the author of that slur upon the Vicarage.

If the Queen herself had said such a
thing, I wouldn't forgive her, ' indignantly
thought the old lady, as — loyal subject
that she was — the very strongest inward
expression of her feelings she could ^\v^.

There were other passengers — three
ladies — in the compartment the first half
of the journey, so Griselda and her chaperon
did not converse.

Griselda sat quietly gazing out upon the
autumn landscape. In her — until lately —
uneventful life, a railway journey was quite

an incident. And she loved the fair country
she was born in ; she was never tired of
watching the changes of the seasons.

Mrs Mayne was watching her. Once
or twice Griselda, looking up, saw a new
expression, a curious look on her old
friend's face ; but she did not suspect the
cause. The second or third time she
blushed, and, leaning across, asked Mrs
Mayne whether her hat was crooked, and
on Mrs Mayne's ' Oh dear, no!' she asked
if she were really tidy — she had hurried
her dressing rather not to miss the train.

My dear, I have never seen you
untidy yet.'

Mrs Mayne spoke a little sharply.
At that moment she felt annoyed with
Nature for having made this young
creature so beautiful. Her loveliness,
placed as she was, with only the protection

of ' that eccentric father of hers,'
was Literally but a drawback. It was of
no use. ' If she were awkward and
ugly, or even merely plain, life would
really be much easier for her,' thought
the doctor's wife.

A few stations farther on, their 
got out, and then Mrs
Mayne began to talk, and to ' probe '
Griselda with great wariness. She led
the conversation gradually towards the
subject of the vicarage, the Vicar, and
his pupils.

After twenty minutes' cross-questioning,
Mrs Mayne's conclusion was that,
whatever might be the condition of the
affections of Messrs Hugh Blunt and
Mervyn Bray, Griselda was heart-whole
so far as they were concerned.

What shopping is it you are

going to do ? ' asked the lady, after her
mind was relieved so far. 'My dear!
Do you mean to say you have only
come to run about London after some
musty old book ? Dear, dear ! I shall
pass half-a-dozen of those old library-shops
that no one ever goes into, and
who are always said to be buying
ancient books at ridiculous prices, while
you never hear of their selling anything.
I could have got it for you directly.'

Griselda explained that this particular
book might not be to be had at all.

Mrs Mayne shook her head. She
had heard of Thomas Aquinas, but
thought the name sounded Popish. Her
Bible and Prayer-book were enough for
her, she said aloud — inwardly adding that
it would have been a good thing for Griselda
if they had been enough for the Vicar.

Accustomed to have her own way to
a certain extent, she then insisted, after
she had concluded her City shoppings
upon going to Paternoster Row.

My dear,' she said in a tone which
was intended to be conclusive, ' if you
want a book, Paternoster Row is the
place to go to.'

So they spent a weary hour in that
narrow way which eventually leads many
a book to the only eternity letter-press
can have, going in and out of the
endless counting-houses through swinging
doors, and their questioning being answered
in various ways — gradations
between excessive politeness and the
reverse.

Never mind ! Never say die ! ' said
Mrs Mayne, manfully dodging a heavy
dray-cart which was struggling to get

VOL. II. K

out of the Row, and which, according to
the driver of a hansom with a kicking
horse, who looked as if he meant backing
into an adjacent plate-glass window,
' hadn't got no business to be
there at all.' ' As somebody says
somewhere, it's dogged that does it.
Let us be dogged, Griselda.'

Yes, where it is of use,' said Gris-ella
quite meekly. But she wanted to
tell what she thought the truth, that
they were wasting their time.

However, the hour in Paternoster
Row was not altogether wasted, although,
if Mrs Mayne and Griselda had
not paused for that superfluous search
for an ancient book among the world of
new works, it is quite possible that that
which came to pass that day might not
have happened.

At the last counting-house they
visited, a civil young clerk advised them
to go to the great antiquarian bookseller,
Mr Quatrefoil.

He knows — at least they say he
knows — the title and contents of all the
great works in the Museum, let alone
the Bodleian and the Vatican,' said the
young man in the vague way of the
general knower, as he bowed Griselda
and her companion out, with a glance of
admiration at the unconsciously beautiful
girl.

Let us go, dear Mrs Mayne,' said
Griselda, so fervently that the good
old lady hurried through a hasty luncheon
at a pastry cook's and drove off
with her charge in a four-wheeled cab
to the West End, where the learned
bibliomaniac interviewed customers in a

quiet bookshop which looked like a
great library in miniature.

Mr Quatrefoil, a grey - haired old
gentleman, who wore blue spectacles —
his eyes had been sorely tried by deciphering
manuscript and staring too
eagerly at thousands of title - pages —
happened to come into the shop from
his counting-house as Griselda and Mrs
Mayne entered.

The literary antiquarian was the very
reverse of a ' ladies' man,' but when he
heard Griselda asking for Aquinas'
treatise, he came forward, and somewhat
coldly said, —

There is no — good — translation.'

Griselda said eagerly she was seeking
the original.

It is difficult Latin, ' said Mr
Quatrefoil, with a slight smile.

Then you have the book ? '

Griselda was breathless. Her cheek
was flushed, her eyes sparkled.

This enthusiastic young lady was a
strange customer. Mr Quatrefoil was
puzzled, for this was before the advent
of the strong-minded sex, of Newnham
and Girton. He said he would see,
but it would take some little time. If
they were in a hurry, perhaps they
would leave their address ; he would let
them know. He spoke with the most
innocent look he could assume, knowing
as he did — the sinner ! — that within
thirty seconds he might hold it in
his hand, and went into his office —
although, of course, the book was not
there.

Griselda waited eagerly till he came
back, and, looking at her rather oddly,

inquired if this book were required by
an ordinary customer.

I know my father has bought books
of you.'

Then Griselda told her story. Mr
Quatrefoil Hastened with a new interest.
When she came to the end, he said, —

Pray come into my office, Miss
Black,' so respectfully and kindly that
Griselda felt hopeful.

Your father shall have the book for
as long as he likes, with pleasure,' he
said, waiving Griselda's offer of security
with a ' My dear young lady, certainly
not ! ' Then he stroked his beard
thoughtfully, wondering if it would be
prudent or right to tell Griselda what a
curious coincidence her visit was.

What harm can there be .'^ ' he thought.
The man said nothing about secrecy

and he has gone over to the majority.'
So he said, ' I had heard something of
your father's book, Miss Black. But
of course I hear of so many books that
I should not have paid much attention
to it had not my interest been claimed
for the book by Professor Blackett,
who is, I presume, a great friend of
Mr Black's?'

Griselda shook her head.

My father has his books,' she said
doubtfully. ' But I have never heard him
speak of the professor as an acquaintance
even.'

Dear me, well, that is odd ! ' Mr
Quatrefoil seemed taken aback. * It was
only eight or nine days ago that Mr
Blackett was here — sitting on the corner
of that table — he is, or rather was, a lean,
lanky sort of man, and had that habit of

perching himself high — and talking of
your father's book. I can see him now,
his arms folded, and he swaying himself
backwards and forwards, a trick of his.
Why, I thought he must be an Intimate
friend, or that, at the very least, Mr Black
must have been a favourite pupil, such
was the animation, the keen interested
way In which he spoke. He even went
so far as to ask me to read it. Then,
after he had said good-bye, he came back
to say, '' Oh, Quatrefoll, if Black should
come to you for reference-books, let him
have them, will you ? " Which meant
asking a favour — the first time I have
known him do such a thing, although he
has been one of my best friends and
patrons. Ah, poor fellow, I lite thought
those would be the very last words I
should hear him speak ! '

He is surely not dead ? '

A telegram was sent to our club from
Cambridge last night to say he was found
dead in his chair a few hours previously.
Well, Miss Black, you see I have good
foundation for my readiness to lend you
the Thomas Aquinas.'

A few minutes later Griselda was on
her way to join Mrs Mayne — wondering,
but greatly pleased. She hugged that
volume. She anticipated her father's
expression when he saw it with eager
satisfaction.

Opening Messrs Rogers & Handley's
door, she looked around. Ladies thronged
the counters. There was a buzz of many
voices.

Can I serve you, madam .'^ '

Griselda explained that she was seeking
an old lady — describing Mrs Mayne.

She did not know in which department
she would be Hkely to find her. The
shop-walker escorted her on a fruitless
voyage of discovery. To all seeming,
Mrs Mayne had left the shop.

Would the young lady wait ? '

No. Griselda remembered that Mrs
Mayne had told her in the morning that,
should they by chance happen to miss
each other, they were to meet at the
bookstall at the railway-station. There
were two trains — the 4.45 and the
6.20.

She might catch the 4.45. Of course
Mrs Mayne must be at the station. She
took a cab, and, arriving at the station,
walked through. Plenty of people at the
bookstall buying papers — but still no Mrs
Mayne.

Presently the gates were shut, there

was a whistle, a slamming of doors, and
the 4.45 was gone.

Nearly two hours to wait ! How should
she spend the time ? She walked up and
down and about for a time, till people
began to stare at her, and she saw two
porters look at her, then at each other,
and laugh. Then she went into the
waiting-room. But it was full and stuffy ;
so out she went again, and came upon a
little recess in a corner where there was
a bench. Here she sat, and, opening the
old volume, began to read. The Latin
was old and crabbed and strange. But
Griselda had inherited the taste for research
and the spirit of literary venture
from her father. She forgot her journey,
Mrs Mayne, everything. She might have
been hundreds of miles away from the
noisy, busy railway station.

She was recalled by hearing her name
spoken in a husky whisper. She glanced
up, but she saw no one. It must have
been fancy, she thought, or there might
be plenty of other girls that were named
Griselda.

But, all the same, the reading spell was
broken. She closed the precious book,
and amused herself watching the men
beginning to light the lamps. Looking
at the clock, she saw it was drawing
nearer the time of departure. Should she
not go and see if Mrs Mayne were at the
trysting-place ?

She rose — when some one clutched her
arm.

She gave a little shriek of fright, then
turned.

It was Hal! At first she hardly knew
him. He was pale ; but it was not that

which altered him. It was the expression
of his face which had changed him. He
used to look careless, triumphant, defiant,
through his smiles. Now he looked —
well, the word ' wicked ' flashed through
Griselda's mind. Common-place greetings
died on her lips. She stared at him, her
eyes wet with grief and love.

He looked her over coolly, almost absently.
Then he asked whom she expected.

She stammered out about losing Mrs
Mayne, and waiting for the 6.20 train,
somewhat incoherently.

He stood twisting his moustache, as if
he hardly heard. Then he offered her his
arm. Griselda drew back.

Come with me,' he said.

Oh, but I cannot — I must not ! ' she
said. ' Let us talk here, if you want to
talk to me.'

He sneered slightly, but merely said
Come ! ' more impatiently.

Griselda looked round and about hopelessly,
helplessly ; and then, as if she were
in a dream or mesmerised, she found
herself walking out of the station and into
the London streets with Hal Romayne.

Hal Romayne led Griselda silently but
quickly out into the street. It had been
raining. The lamps were reflected on
the wet pavement. There was the increased
bustle and hurry that follows a
shower. Hal made his way among the
clusters of umbrellas, hailed a hansom,
then said to Griselda, —

Will you get in, if you please ? '

For one moment she hesitated. Then
again the feeling of submission was uppermost,
and presently she was driving away
with Hal, whither she could not tell.

She glanced at him timidly from time
to time. But he sat sternly silent with
folded arms. At last she ventured to
say pleadingly, —

Where are you taking me to ? You
will take me back in time for the 6.20
train, will you not ? Mrs Mayne will
be so frightened ! '

He laughed slightly.

'Oh, certainly ! ' he said. ' Your anxiety
about Mrs Mayne is superfluous, I
can assure you. The little I have
to say will take but a short time in
saying.'

He opened the little trap-door and
gave some directions to the driver,
while Griselda wondered — wondered what
had happened to change the impetuous,
excitable Hal, whose storms of passion
had even admitted of gleams of sunshine,

into this gloomy, sarcastic young
man.

She was nerving herself for an unpleasant
interview when the cab drew
up at a flight of wide steps ; and,
glancing through the window at her
right, she saw the rows of pillars,
the porticoes and facades, the grand
blackened stone pile surmounted by the
great dome — St Paul's.

Hal sprang out, paid the driver, held
out his hand peremptorily, and Griselda
alighted. What was he bringing her
here for ? It was a side-entrance.
One of the cathedral doors stood half
open. No one was on the steps, none
were passing in and out.

Hal offered her his arm, they ascended
the flight, he opened the inner baize
door for her to pass, and Griselda stood

in the vast solemn building, where the
sound and rays of light that travel in
seem captured, never again to know
the outer air and life.

Strange to say, she had not been
here before. John Black had not
cared to take his little daughter with
him when he paid his brief, busy visits
to the metropolis.

There was to be evening service
later on. Some of the lamps were
lighted. There were moving figures
in the chancel.

Why did you bring me here ? '

Griselda, reassured by the passive
protection of the place, grew brave
She spoke to Hal coldly, as he spoke
to her, and held her Thomas Aquinas
tightly. Hal might try her, might
make her suffer ; but she determined

VOL. II. L

not to forget her fathers book of reference,
not to be ' off guard ' and to
lose It.

What book is that ? '

Griselda opened the volume at the
title-page. Hal stooped and glanced
at it, then drew himself up contemptuously.
Since that scene at Goarshausen,
he had disliked and tormented his
parents. He had taken a savage
pleasure in exaggerating the dissipation
into which he had undoubtedly plunged,
to his mother. Her tears and prayers
had merely augmented his enjoyment
of his revenge — that evil passion inherent
in most human natures, especially
in spoilt human natures. Now he was
trying to hate Griselda's father. But
this was more difficult, for he respected
him deeply, and Hal the ill-regulated

could not really love where he could
not respect. However, he sarcastically-said,
—

Then Mr Black Is still floundering
in feeble Atheism ? Does he think
St Thomas will pull him out?'

Griselda made no reply.

Hal waited for her to reply. But
Griselda stood, motionless as one of
the sculptured figures on the monuments
that loomed blackly in the dimness.
Then there came a wailing musical
sound as if from afar, and the
great organ began to play, a simple
hymn that was to be sung at the
coming service, played softly through
by the organist. It touched Griselda,
but it aggravated Hal, who had a sense
of wrong done, of sin committed, who
had no honoured and respected conscience

as his staff, shield, belt — that
which a moral warrior wants. He
said to her, almost savagely, —

You asked me why I brought you
here. Because I fancied, in spite of
your vile behaviour to me, that you
had enough reverence left not to tell
lies here.'

What lies have I ever told you,
Hal?' she asked, in an undertone.

Your conduct proves that you have
never told me anything else.'

What conduct ? '

First, accepting me ; then throwing
me over at once, without a look or a
word, in the most heartless manner I
ever heard of; then rushing into the
arms of your former lover, Hugh
Blunt—'

'Hal!' Griselda drew herself up,

and her eyes flashed. ' I cannot hear
your evil thoughts in a church.' And
she was moving to the door, when he
somewhat taken aback by the first
wrath — and he knew well enough justifiable
wrath — of the o^irl he loved —
went quickly after and caught her hand.

Come and sit down, and we will
talk quietly. Griselda ' — he looked
piteously at her.

If I do, will you say a little prayer
first?'

Griselda, forgive me ! '
I meant a real prayer. Oh, Hal,'
she said suddenly, forgetting all but
that this was her dearest, her adored,
who made the light of her life, and
for whose loss she had been sorrowing
each day, each hour, almost every
minute, ' if it had not been for the

mercy of God, I could not have borne
leaving you ! I had to — it was right
I knew God would help me ; but if
you could know how I have missed
you since Goarshausen — how I have
pined, and longed, and wearied just to
see you, even without your seeing me
how I have loathed everyone and
everything — how I was sorry when I
woke up in the morning, because there
was another day to work through, and
how I groaned when the work was
done, because there was the long dreary
night, when 1 tossed or turned or was
tormented by cruel dreams ! Oh, Hal,
after all that, how can you be unkind ? *
Her voice faltered. She bent forward
to hide her emotion. Great tears
welled up and overflowed. Hal, remorseful
and gentle once more, made

her seat herself on one of the chairs ;
then — his manner changed and softened
he pleaded for himself.

^ Griselda, darling, forgive me ! ' he
began.

Then he made a full confession,
almost without reserve, only too certain
of his pardon. His life since their
parting had been a disgraceful episode
in his career ; Griselda, innocent as she
was, felt that. He had accompanied
his family back as far as Calais, whereat
the last moment, he announced his
intention of starting for Paris alone.

They were aghast,' he said. ' But I
think my mother consoled herself with
the idea that even Paris was better than
England — where she had taken the
trouble to find out that you already
were. I had of course been over to

Paris before — several times — but not
in the devilish humour I was in then.
Well, some fellows I knew were there —
a fast lot — even for the — th, which is
considered a fast regiment. I lived their
life, which is saying much. I lived their
life, but could not feel as they profess
to feel — that there is no such thing as
Good anywhere. Wherever I went,
whatever I did, in the wildest, noisiest
scenes — or alone and wretched in the
dead of the night — my memory was
haunted by you — you in the side-chapel
of the old cathedral — you pitying that
poor old dog — you as I found you at
the top of that hill — you promising to
be my wife — you rushing away from
me when my mother behaved so disgracefully
— your face, your touch, your
voice. I could not stand it ; I left

again suddenly for London. London
was a little better. I was getting more
patient when my mother announced to me
that she had heard you were re-engaged
to a Mr Blunt. *' I understood there was
a disagreement," she said, '' but that
Miss Black's father wisely asked Mr
Blunt to overlook his daughter's conduct.
If she will only keep straight now, she
has a fair chance of leading a respectable
life." I won't tell you about the
row we had. I am ashamed of it. But
she has paid for that speech handsomely.
She is ill now ; they have
taken her to Bournemouth.'

Don't tell me any more ! ' Griselda's
heart was in her mouth. And this washer
doing! 'But how could you believe
me to be bad — false — horrible?' — with
a shudder. ' Did I not promise you

that, if I could not marry you ' — she
looked at him with a world of love in
her earnest eyes — ' I would never marry
anyone else ? '

'It is a common thing for women to
promise ' — scornfully.

But I am not a woman — I am only a
girl said Griselda earnestly. ' And that
reminds me — you won't understand
what my worst torment has been, perhaps.
Well, it was thinking that I was a plain
ordinary country girl, just dressed anyhow,
the best way I could ; but that
you were among all the beautiful ladies
beings I have often imagined — tall,
small-waisted, with flowing silk or satin
dresses, and their hair beautifully done
up, and wearing reckless and rings and
bracelets. Oh, when I thought of those,
I was unhappy ! '

'You had no faith in me, then?'

'Hal!'

An irrepressible smile glinted upon
both their young faces. The strained,
ugly look had already left Hal's countenance.


Now, Griselda, you know what
jealousy means ! '

'Have you been jealous?' whispered
Griselda. ' Oh dear, oh dear, if I had
only known that, I would have told you
everything at once ! '

What — everything ? '

'That — everything — when I cannot
see you — is — hateful.'

My darling, we must understand each
other, once and for all,' said Hal. ' Weare
promised to each other, and as soon
as circumstances will permit, you and I
will be husband and wife. Meanwhile,

I have only one favour to ask you. Be
firm with your father, and demand that
he shall send those young-men pupils of
his away. You cannot understand, nor
do I wish you to understand, why I
insist upon this. But I can tell you
this much : If your father were not a
self-absorbed, opinionated man — you
would not be the lady of the house
where two strange young men are two
of the small family of four.'

Then he told Griselda that people
who studied conventionalities had talked
about the Vicar's neglect of her. Now
that he was softened, comforted, that
Griselda was true and pure-hearted, still
his ideal woman, he was gentler, and
said nothing absolutely to wound her
feelings. Still, while he talked, she felt
that something must be done, and a

vague idea of what she might do arose
in her mind. She determined to consult
Mrs Mayne.

That lady had proceeded to the
draper's, and had partly got through her
shopping, when she saw an old friend
just leaving the shop by another door —
a former schoolfellow she had an affection
for, but had not seen for years.
She stood just outside talking to her,
and thus missed Griselda. As time
went on, she thought her charge was
a long time at Mr Quatrefoll's inquiring
for Aquinas' treatise, so she ordered
her purchases to be securely packed and
she went to Quatrefoll's, which was buta
few doors from the great emporium.
The bookseller himself was out ; but his
assistant told her that the young lady
left ' nearly an hour ago.'

Mrs Mayne could hardly believe this,
her arrangement with Griselda that the
latter should join her at the draper's was
so clear. She felt puzzled. Returning
to the shop, she found on inquiry that
Griselda had been there. It was evident
that they had missed each other. * She
is waiting for me at the station,' thought
Mrs Mayne, and thither she proceeded
in a cab ; with her purchases. When
she did not see Griselda waiting at the
bookstall, she thought she must be in
the waiting-room ; and, while she was
going from one to the other, Hal had
succeeded in persuading the girl whose
love was so strong that she could not
resist him to leave the station for a
while with him.

If Mrs Mayne could have known this!
Without the knowledge, she was fidgety

and anxious enough. Where could the
girl be ? Griselda was behaving so unlike
Griselda. Poor Mrs Mayne, in her
distracted frame of mind, was a perfect
nuisance to the officials. She implored
the ticket-collectors to remember if a
young lady answering to Griselda's description
had started by the 4.45 train.
She cross-questioned all the porters, and
made the life of the young man who
served newspapers at the bookstall a
perfect burden to him. Whispers went
about that the old lady was an escaped
lunatic, with a delusion, and the glances
that followed her became so unpleasant
to the poor doctor's wife that she had
just given her search up in despair, and
had seated herself on the very bench
which Griselda had occupied shortly
before, when, looking across the station,

she saw the young lady walk calmly In
on the arm of a young man.

'Oh!'

Words could not describe that ' oh ' of
Mrs Mayne's. She rubbed her eyes,
hurried up to the couple who were going
towards the bookstall, and positively
clutched at Griselda's arm.

Hal turned, and, seeing who It was,
Mrs Mayne said, ' Oh ! ' again, and fora
moment or two was speechless.

Then she said, ' Well, Griselda ! ' and
her tone meant much. Hal gave a
short account of their meeting and visit
to St Paul's, ending with, —

It Is too strange not to be true,
Mrs Mayne ! Fancy, that our meeting
came about by a chance In a million.
I was carrying this cane, not an umbrella.
It began to rain. I had a new

hat. I actually tossed up whether I
should take a hansom or wait in the
station, and chance decided I should
wait'

Mrs Mayne could not help thinking"
her credulity was somewhat hardly
taxed. Still, she did not really doubt
the veracity of either of the young-people.
She had always liked Hal Romayne
— and who could doubt Griselda
who had known her, as Mrs Mayne
had — ever since she was born ?

So she accepted the situation, heard
Griselda's explanation, and allowed Hal
to carry her small parcels and to
summon a porter for the larger ones,
to find them a compartment, to settle
them comfortably therein, and to wait
until the train started, when he stood,
lifting his hat from his curly head, and

VOL. II. M

fixing his eyes upon Griselda with so
wistful, tender, and passionate a gaze,
that Mrs Mayne remembered her young
days and felt quite touched.

Poor young things ! ' she thought.
But she speedily repressed her overflow
of sympathy. Griselda was a motherless
girl, with a pedantic father, who
knew about as much of the world asa
baby.' She was, moreover, under her
own guardianship, and this meeting had
come about while she was responsible.
The old lady had gathered somewhat
from Griselda of the Goarshausen business.
But she was not rightly in possession
of the facts.

My dear,' she said to Griselda, kindly
but sternly, as soon as they were fairly
on their journey homewards, * I am seriously
concerned about this meeting of

yours with Mr Romayne. In fact, I
hardly know what I ought to do about
it. I must consult the Doctor this very
night.'

Then Griselda began from the beginnings

and told her all, from the romantic

childish affection which Mrs

Mayne remembered well — she fancied

she could see the pretty boy Hal now —

that day years ago when he came and

talked about Griselda to her, — to the

interview but an hour ago in St Paul's,

which had left them more closely bound

to each other than they had as yet

been.

Mrs Mayne's heart bid fair to bias
her judgment. It was all so romantic,
the love between these handsome young
people. Then Griselda told her tale so
artlessly, and looked so sweet, and in

the background there was Feather's Court,
the title, the town-house, and the other
estates. Surely a marriage such as this
might rank among the ' marriages made
in heaven ' ! Then she called herself to
order. Although she did not like Sir
Hubert and Lady Romayne, and had
much fault to find with the Vicar, her
first duty was to the parents.

I wish you both happiness together
with my whole heart,' she said. ' But,
my dear, that happiness cannot be unless
Sir Hubert and Lady Romayne
relent.'

Griselda agreed with her. Then she
told her of Hal's dislike to the present
arrangements at the vicarage.

Mrs Mayne admitted that dislike to
be very natural. Still, she could not see
what Griselda was to do.

i«i

Then the girl confided her idea to her
old friend.

I thought perhaps Jemima could manage
for them, with a girl under her,'
she suo^orested. ' And I could take a
resident governess's situation — to teach
young boys. I know I could prepare
them for school thoroughly. And I
think I understand boys.'

You have had experience enough, I
am sure, with those brothers of yours,'
said Mrs Mayne, somewhat taken aback.
But, my dear, if you were really to do
this, I fear it would be a lasting stumble
in the way of marrying into
the Romayne family. Lady Romayne
mio^ht be brought to acknowledge a
clergyman's daughter as her daughter-in-law,
but a governess! Never!'

It cannot be helped.'

Well, I will think it over. Go orr
as usual for a few days, Griselda ; then
come up to tea with me, and we will
talk it over.'

The Doctor and his wife sat up very
late that night talking of the Blacks''
affairs. Meanwhile, Griselda had had
the delight of seeing her father greatly
pleased with the book she had brought.
He was interested to hear that the professor,
so lately dead, had interested
himself so deeply In his writings.

Poor fellow,' he said ; ' I should
liked to have thanked him ! What an
eccentric man he was ! '

He told Griselda of the efforts he had
made, and others had made, for him to
meet and converse with the celebrated
Professor Blackett, and how curiously and
signally those efforts had failed.

Then, every available moment, John
Black was at work upon his new book.
It was his daughter's triumph to find the
required quotation. Griselda was hard
at work those next days, but the work
did not seem hard. The sight of her beloved
betrothed husband, his loving words
and looks, had been new life to her. Her
faith and trust in him were complete.
Sometimes she said to herself, * I am
too happy, too blest.' After that came
a morning that the Vicar received a
curious letter from Messrs Everest &
Everest. He said nothing to Griselda
at the breakfast-table. But, later on,
he came to her in the garden, where
she was trailing some late convolvulus
on a wire basket, and asked her what
she thought of it. The letter ran as
follows : —

'Dear Sir, — If you will favour us with
an interview at your earliest convenience,
to discuss matters relating to yourself and
to your sons and daughter, which are of
the utmost importance, you will greatly
oblige, — Your most obedient servants,
Everest & Everest.'

What can it mean ? ' said the Vicar,
half to himself, half to Griselda.

Perhaps ' — she hesitated a little — ' the
bishop has felt sorry for being so — so —
intolerant, and wishes you to begin preaching
again — no, don't shake your head, you
dear father, and don't look so sad.' She
clung to him. ' Sometimes I feel almost
sure that some great good is going to
happen to you — that it must come sooner
or later. I did so the other day, when I
was in St Paul's, and the organ was playing,

and the hymn reminded me of you —
so true — so firm — so good — '

'St Paul's! Did Mrs Mayne take you
to St Paul's ? '

Griselda told her father about her meeting
with Hal.

There was no harm ? she added,
slightly alarmed, for he looked grave
and troubled.

No harm,' he said ; 'but I am sorry —
sorry — oh, Griselda, child,' he said, with
sudden passion, ' you are all I have now
you seem to be more hers than the
boys! You are like her too, I know you
are, in heart and soul, my darling ; and to
think of a word against you being said !
I cannot bear it ! And I am so tied and
bound,' he went on, shaking aside his
shaggy grey hair, and stroking his brow
with his thin hand. ' I cannot take care

of you as I would. That illness — that
ill-success — our poverty — they are so
many drags upon each step I take, so
many chains upon my hands. Griselda,
a few nights before your mother died I
had a dream. I dreamt I saw a big white
lily and a tiny one on the same stalk, and
as I looked at them, the big lily withered
and shrivelled as if it had been burnt, and
I had only the tiny one left. It was prophetic,
but not prophetic of how I should
grow to love and depend upon my white
blossom ! ' He took her face tenderly
between his hands. ' Nor did it prophesy
that I should first be careless, worse than
careless. Child, can you forgive me 1 ' he
said, in a slow dull way ; and there was a
look of anguish in his eyes which made
her heart ache. ' Can you forgive me for
having once, in my misery, thought that — '

He turned away. He could not say
it, this confession which had so often
risen to his Hps. His remorse for having
shunned the child Griselda as the innocent
and indirect cause of her mother's
death had been frequent and cruel.

Father ' — she could not bear to hear
him speak thus — ' I know ; it was so
natural ! How could you help it ? If I
had not been born, she might not have
died. I cannot talk about forgiving you,
for I have such a feeling you have never
done wrong.'

And I to-day feel as if I were the
greatest sinner in the whole world,' said
John Black, his arms falling at his sides.
What this presentiment of some blow —
some sudden ending to this life of ours,
with nothing beyond — means to-day, I
cannot tell ; but there it is, weighing me

down. I once had a terrible interview
with those Everests, Griselda ! I was a
very young man, and I had lived as
worse than an orphan — for at least orphans
knew where their parents' bodies
rest, and can stand by their graves and
hope to meet them again — but no one
could ever tell me who I was, or who it
was that gave me my daily bread till I
could earn it for myself. Well, I went
to those lawyers and asked them boldly,
*' Who am I ? " Men ? They were as
stone. Could they be flesh and blood ;
could they be husbands with wives clinging
to them, fathers with children babbling
to them and climbing about their knees ?
They nearly broke my spirit and crushed
my life ; my child, they absolutely refused
to tell me one word ; they sent me out
into the world — utterly alone.'

It was the first time he had shown such
emotion to Griselda — the first time he
had spoken to her of his boyhood, his Hfe.
She bent her head, and, raising his hand,
reverently kissed it ; she could not speak.

I dread to-day,' he went on, with a
shuddering sob. ' Can it be because I
am physically weak ? I am a coward. I
cannot meet this blow — I fear It.'

Darling ! ' cried Griselda, as with a
sudden inspiration seizing his hand and
looking brightly into his face, ' I know,
I am sure this is only good news ! Oh,
do believe me — what else could It be ?
Why should they write about Tom and
Harry and me; and use the word 'important
? " And, even If It were not
altogether good news, you have us all to
love you and stick by you, and do every
mortal possible thing to make you bear

it. There, you must soon be going, or
you will have to wait till the two o'clock
train, and the offices will be shut before
you get there ; ' and she hurried him into
the house and brushed his coat, and hung
about him tenderly ; then, after he said
good-bye, stood smiling, and waving her
hand till he turned the corner of the lane,
and she saw him no more.

Then she felt suddenly lonesome and
miserable. Her spirits fell ; there had been
something in John Black's manner to-day
which his daughter had never — sensitive to
the slightest variation in her father's looks,
tones, and attitudes — noticed before.

Will — something — happen } ' she asked
herself, feeling dazed and strange.

At that moment she saw Hugh Blunt
hastening up the lane. When he saw her,
he ran, to save her from waiting at the door.

jHAT is wrong?' blurted out
Hugh Blunt to Griselda.
Your father met me just
now — stopped a moment — shook my hand
was going to speak — then turned away,
and went off with his fastest stride. It is
bad news ? '

It is — everything,' said Griselda, leaning
against the parlour door. ' Or —
excuse me — I am not fit to talk.'

Her voice faltered, and she turned away
her head.

'Nonsense!' said Hugh, in a bantering

tone, though he sympathised with her
deeply. * Come, let me hear all about it.'

Then he simply took her hand and led
her into the parlour, closed the door, and
stirred the logs on the hearth, which were
smouldering into grey ashes. After which
he stood on the hearth rug, and in a way
peculiarly his own contrived to find out
what he wanted to know, and a little
more — for, unnerved as Griselda was, she
somehow mentioned her intention to leave
home and to take a situation as governess.

'What?' cried Hugh, surprised into
vehemence. 'You — leave home — leave
us — what does it mean ? Griselda, are we
is poor Bray — or am I — hateful to you ?
If so, it is we who ought to leave — not
you. Oh, this cannot be serious ! Someone
has put this nonsensical notion into
your head. It cannot be yours ! Tell me — '

He walked uneasily to the window, and
back to the fireplace — uneasily, because he
felt certain that there was something unpleasant
at the root of this unexpected
whim of the girl he so fondly loved.

No one put the Idea into my head,'
said Griselda. ' It came there quite by
Itself, and I mean It to stay.'

You mean to leave — your father ? '
I mean to give my Idea consideration
and to discuss it.'

With your father, of course ? '
No ; with Mrs Mayne. I am going
to tea with her this afternoon.'

You — with your knowledge — are going
to be led by that good-natured old lady,
who is the embodiment of narrow Crows-foot
opinions ! What can have happened
to bring about this 't '

Nothing but facts.'

VOL. II. N

Hugh was disturbed, worried. Of
course, if Griselda had not been the
mainspring of his feelings, thoughts, and
actions, he might have regretted had she
gone into the world as a governess, but
would scarcely have cared. But, as he
loved her, he was stung to the quick.

Let me speak to you,' he began, in a
low earnest voice, going towards the little
red sofa where she was sitting, her elbow
on the sofa-arm, her head supported by
her hand. ' Let me — '

No, no ! ' Griselda, detecting something
that reminded her of Hugh as he
was at Goarshausen, sprung up, her cheeks
rosy red. ' Please not ; do you know I
have ever so much to do ? We dine
early, as usual, and I am going to tea
with Mrs Mayne, and poor Jemima will
not '' get through," as she calls it ; ' and,

taking her key-basket, she abruptly left
him.

Hugh thought, rapidly and decisively.

This shall not be,' he said to himself.
I must speak. When she knows how
utterly unworthy of her he is — how the
very fact that such a fellow dared to make
love to her blemishes her sweet purity —
surely she will be persuaded, if not to care
for me, at least to let me care for and
protect her.'

He made some resolutions, then quietly
joined Mervyn Bray, who was at work,
stupefying himself with a seemingly insoluble
problem, in the little sitting-room
under the sloping roof upstairs.

At the early dinner Hugh was quiet and
helpful, but showed no trace of the morning's
mental disturbance. Griselda had
leisurely dressed, had started, and had

nearly reached the cross-roads at the end
of the vicarage lane, when she heard
quick footsteps behind her. It was Hugh.
As he came up, he said,

I will walk with you to Mrs Mayne's.'
Griselda halted in consternation.

Oh, but you can't ! ' she said.

Why not ? '

She looked this way and that.

You see, Mrs Mayne does not exactly
expect you. I mean, she has not asked
you to tea to-day, although I am sure she
will be delighted to see you any other
day you choose to go.'

I only meant to accompany you to the
door.*

But that means going through the
village.'

I have been through the village with
you often before.'

Yes,' began Griselda ; then she reddened,
and stammered out. ' but not —
not without Mr Bray — or my father — or
both.'

Why this sudden prudery '^. I can call
it nothing else.'

I have reasons — or rather a reason —
which I do not intend to tell you.'

That is very wrong — it is cruel,
Griselda!' said Hugh warmly. 'After
all these months that I have lived under
your father's roof — after our being together
as we were abroad — after the numbers of
times that I have walked to church or to
the school with you — you suddenly are
capricious, and take away a simple
privilege for nothing at all ! It is unworthy
of you.'

Come, then, if you please,' said
Griselda.

At first he walked by her side In
silence ; but then he began to speak.
He would not be stayed ; he would
have his say out. He told her of his
love. He promised her long unbroken
happiness If she would promise to be
his wife some day. He assured her of
a warm welcome from ' his people ' — this
passion made him eloquent. Griselda's
heart beat faintly — her face was chill —
she was pale — she could not check that
torrent of words.

Don't ! ' she feebly said at last. ' I
cannot bear It;' and she looked as if she
would faint. One stormy interview after
another seemed to overwhelm her.

You are obdurate ? You steadily set
yourself against me, then?' said Hugh,
with rising anger. ' All my love — all my
devotion — go for nothing!'

^ Do not say that,' dear friend,' said
Griselda, supporting herself against a
tree, and looking pleadingly at him. ' Do
you think I am ungrateful ? Do you
think I have not seen and known how
good, how thoughtful you have been for
us ? But ' — she looked down, her voice
faltered — she was so unused to speak of
the one dominant presence in her mind
' you remember what I told you at
Goarshausen ? I may not, indeed most
likely I never shall, marry — but I — could
never — marry — anyone — but — Hal.'

Hush hesitated. He looked at the
slight graceful creature, so modest, so
gentle, who spoke of reckless — in his
opinion, bad — Hal Romayne half with
awe, as if she talked of some ineffably
sacred subject. He battled with his
anger and disgust. He struggled to feel

pity, sympathy. But a stern sensation
rose and got the ascendency — a dogged
determination to enlighten Griselda. It
was not really rivalry or any mean feeling
which made him speak out, and tell
the girl whose ideal was Hal Romayne
of what clay her idol was made ; how
he had been the fastest youth among
a fast set of young fellows, first and
foremost in any devilry ; how the worst
conduct which could be attributed to a
young man who was not openly going to
perdition had been attributed to him ;
how, worst of all, since she had given
him her maiden affection at Goarshausen,
he had returned to wallow in the mire
with redoubled carelessness as to past,
present, and future. It was justice — unscrupulous
justice, perhaps, but still justice
to himself, to her, to her father — to

tell his story, which was true in a manner
in all its naked ugliness.

When he stopped, he felt he had said
too much. He had talked to this girl
as if she were a man ; but what was to
be done ? He could not loss over vice.

He looked eagerly at Griselda. At
last, at last he had opened her eyes !

But Griselda merely said very quietly,
Thank you, Mr Blunt. Please leave
me ' — as if they had been discussing the
most ordinary question.

She had listened, and she had heard.
But Hal had anticipated his enemy by
his free confession ; therefore Griselda
felt that he was injured by Hugh Blunt,
that she was his natural champion, and
that the prodigal who morally flung himself
at her feet a few days since in the
old church was as far superior to malicious

and maligning Hugh Blunt as the
Publican was to the Pharisee.

Before Blunt had rallied from his astonishment,
she had left him, and was
many yards along the lane.

He stood gazing after her, almost stupefied.
He had not anticipated this. He
could not understand how one so pure
could love one so vile.

Why are fellows of that sort born ? '
he asked himself, with sudden rage. ' Of
no use, but to torment, to drag others
down to their miserable level — to pollute
their womankind — for they degrade them
to the level of carrion hovering about
garbage — vice is spiritual garbage — they
are like that toad,' he went on, turning
round, and pursuing a path across a cornfield
which led to a copse, and pushing a
misshapen green and yellow toad into the

ditch with his stick. * What are those
noisome creatures for in the economy of
nature ? '

He looked vaguely about, as if for an
answer. The clear autumn sky was
patched with sunlit clouds ; the gold and
brown leaves went fluttering down, as if
they meant to play with their withered
brethren that lay in heaps about the
grassy hedgerows rather than to die. A
field-mouse flashed along and fled into a
hole ; then, as Hugh trod the stubble, a
covey of partridges flew up with a whirr.
Nature was smiling about him, and he saw
her not. For she — and natures such as
his, — who reason, calculate, and govern, —
are scarcely at one. The wild, passionate,
loving, and repentant are the children
of Nature, who is all furious storm,
raving and raging, casting her children

wildly hither and thither, hunting them
from her — even to death — one day ; while
the next she will be all stillness and sunshine,
drawing up the beaten flowers,
coaxing the storm-ridden creatures back
to bask upon her warm bosom, never
consistent in her moods except in their
inconsistency.

Hugh went on to the copse, and there
he flung himself upon the grass under
the nut-trees, and gave himself up to
anxious thought. Tiny insects crept in
and out of the grass ; the rabbits were
scudding about a green bank a little distance
away ; doves cooed now and then.
It was so still he could hear the heavy
breathing of a cart-horse munching in a
gratified beyond the hedge.

He thought — for long. Then he rose,
shook himself free of fallen leaves and

twigs, and went away, sternly but securely
comforted by a long course of reasoning.

If, he considered — if he waited and
hoped, and was constant in the role of
faithfully devoted pupil to the Vicar and
brotherly friend to Griselda — he would
tire out circumstances. The Romayne
complications must come to an end, and
the continued resistance of Sir Hubert
and Lady Romayne would at last kill
Hal's passion for Griselda, who would
then be free.

He calculated for all continuing on the
same level. Chances, as we term sudden
occurrences that shake and overthrow all
humanity's judgments of what will be
met with tomorrow or any tomorrow in
the future, — he forgot. Therefore he was
as one tossing on the sea without a
compass.

He went home to be reproached by
Mervyn Bray for having forgotten his
promise that they two should take a
long walk together.

Well, it is not too late now,' he said.

So they started out, went to the nearest
hill of the chain which was the background
to Feather's Court, watched a
beautiful golden autumn sunset, and returned
in the gloaming.

We might meet the Vicar, if we
went back by the station,' said Hugh,
glancing at his watch by the light of
the full moon, as they passed the first
cottage of the straggling village of Crows-foot.
* The 6. 20 will not be so very
long now.'

Bray assented ; so they turned down
the station-lane. Here there was some
excitement going on. Mothers with

babies in their arms and young children
clinging to their skirts, were standing
about in groups, all looking in one direction.
Men and boys were running and
shouting.

Fire ! ' suggested Mervyn Bray,
whose ideas were somewhat straggling,
especially when he was fatigued — and he
was more than that now ; after pounding
along the roads and rushing up and
downhill with Hugh, he was positively
footsore.

The sky looks so red, doesn't it,
old man ? ' said Hugh sarcastically.
He was not particular as to his sayings
when he was alone with good-natured
Bray. ' No ; most probably it
is a row There is not the slightest
doubt that, since the Vicar has left off
lecturing in the schoolroom as well as

preaching, those wretched public-houses
have done double business.'

They walked quickly down the lane.
If there really were a row, it was
on the station platform. There was a
surging crowd there. The murmur
could be heard some distance away.

A prize-fight, no doubt,' said Bray,
with pride at his brilliant inspiration.

But just then they reached the station,
and a man rushed out, wild, ghastly, clutching
madly at his hair, and shrieking, —

My only girl — my only girl ! '

Stop him, stop him ; he will kill
himself!' shouted a man and some
women, rushing after him.

The pursued and the pursuers went by
like a whirlwind. Bray gave a curious
little cry; he was frightened. Hugh
stood still and said hoarsely, —

No, no ; It is some accident ! '
The little booking - office was fulL
The policeman was carried hither and
thither, vaguely, by the crowd. He
was powerless. Hugh heard sobbing
and short sad cries on the platform
beyond. There was a continuous low
moan, such as the storm-wind utters ina
pine-forest. Everyone vociferated, but
no one took notice of any other. It
might have been a gathering of the
inmates of some lunatic asylum. But
suddenly the door of the waiting-room
opened, sending the people near reeling
back among the crowd, and Doctor
Mayne came out with the station-master,
who was blanched and trembling.

Hugh gave a vigorous push, and made
his way to their side.

The 6.20 run Into by the express, and

VOL. II. o

smashed,' said the station-master. * If we
could only clear the station ! Nothing can
be done till they will move.'

Hugh heard passively, as if in some
awful dream. Doctor Mayne clutched
his arm.

It has been telegraphed a quarter of
an hour,' he said, ' and look at the scene
now — what shall we do ? There is poor
Sir Hubert lying there in the waiting-room
; he came in the dog-cart to meet
his son ; we sent it off to Armchurch for
Doctor Strong there. He fainted. I fear
it is slight apoplexy.'

Sir — Hubert — Romayne ? ' Hugh
spoke strangely, as if he were drugged.

Yes — oh, poor fellow — poor Hal ! He
was in the train expected.'

Oh — but — my God ! — the Vicar ! ' cried
Hugh distractedly.

'Hush, hush!' Doctor Mayne had
seemed to live ten years in those last
minutes. The accident and its impending
horrors were familiar to him, as if
he had known nothing but all this for
months. * Hush ! There she comes ! '

Hugh turned, and saw Griselda, who
came in, pale, staggering, as one buried
alive and released, into the outer air.

Hugh made one step towards her,
reeled, and leant back against the wall.
It was the worst moment of his life.

HE Vicar had gone on to London,
still in depressed spirits.
Yet London had seldom looked
to such advantage as on this bright, clear
autumn day. Last week's rain had dashed
the pavements white. Pure sunshine lay
upon the freshened roofs, and glinted on
the fast-falling foliage of the imprisoned
trees with the blackened trunks that grew
in the old City churchyards. The men
thronging the streets seemed to walk
more lightly, for a good two-thirds of the
busy crowd had just returned invigorated

by their annual holiday. Lincoln's Inn
Fields was unusually quiet. The many
windows, whose uncurtained, unblinded
condition meant offices on every floor,
had always seemed to look blank and
discouraging to John Black, perhaps because
hereabouts was the one great mystery
of his life, locked up, it might be,
in some old deed-box in Messrs Everests'
safes, or perhaps in the legal minds of
those gentlemen only. To-day, the staid,
empty look of the houses oppressed him
more than ever. He walked round the
square before he mounted the narrow
flight of stone steps leading to Messrs
Everests' office, thinking of that day
when he went to them to ask for a monetary
advance, soon after Doctor Mayne
had told him that his beloved wife must
shortly die. Those practical business

men had proposed an arrangement ta
him then which seemed to him most 
— to advance him money without
charging him interest, this money to
be paid back when convenient to himself,.
and not to affect his three thousand
pounds which they had invested for him,
the interest of which he was to continue
to draw as usual. He had never
understood that. Now they no longer
had any money of his, for, after insisting
a few years ago upon refunding the sum
they had so freely and generously lent
him, he had withdrawn and used the little
capital he had left — and not a shilling
of it remained.

Presently he chided himself for his ' cowardice,'
and went into the clerk's office.

He was immediately taken upstairs into
the great gaunt room. Here the lanky

Mr Walter Everest and his smaller but
senior brother and partner, Mr Henry,
were standing talking near the fireplace
to a bland old gentleman with white hair,
dressed in deep mourning, who, saluting
them with subdued but smiling deference,
immediately bowed himself out when he
saw the Vicar. Evidently his interview
with these representatives of the well-known
firm had been by no means an
unpleasant one.

The brothers turned, and shook hands
with John Black.

Be seated, I beg,' said Mr Henry.
I hope you have half-an-hour to spare ? '

Yes,' said the Vicar wonderingly, looking
towards Mr Walter, who had resumed
his chair at his office-table, and
who at once saw something out of window
which attracted his attention.

That Is well,' said the brisk Mr
Henry, who had grown very bald these
years, but who was as sharp In manner
as ever — * that Is well ; for this chat of
ours to-day Is not exactly — Indeed, I
think I may say, Mr Walter ' — appealing
to his brother — ' can scarcely come under
the category of business at all — eh ? '

No — not — not exactly,' said Mr Walter,
who was arranging the neat piles of documents
and papers, in all stages of dusty
age, on his table.

No ; doubtless you noticed that — my
dear Vicar — from my letter.'

John shook his head.

It was, as usual, mystifying,' he said,
with a tinge of sarcasm.

Oh, my dear sir, we must not say
** mystifying," we must not indeed!' said
the little man, with a short laugh, crossing

and uncrossing his legs. ' We lawyers
never mystify. It is you clients who persist
in being mystified. The affairs we
take in hand are as clear as daylight.
If you clients cannot see in the daylight,
that is not our fault. However, hold to
your bad opinion of us by all means.
It does not harm us, and amuses you.
But I wish that you thought as well of
us, for instance, as the old gentleman
who has just left us, with a heavy cheque,
drawn in his favour by the firm, in his
pocket-book. I daresay you recognised
him. No .^ Not the celebrated undertaker,
Gillfly ? He has just buried a
very old and valued client of ours in
the good, honest, old-fashioned way, — no
foolery of flowers and gewgaws, — Professor
Blackett,' went on Mr Everest
loudly and slowly, gazing up at the ceiling

as if he were deciphering the name
there. ' Yes ; Professor Blackett.'

Ah, I was so sorry to hear of his
death ! ' said the Vicar, the memory of
the dead professor's interest in his condemned
book rousing him. ' He was a
learned man — ay, a very great man.
Was he really a client of yours ? '

He was,' said Mr Henry Everest,
coughing slightly, and then rubbing his
eyeglass softly and slowly with his bandana
handkerchief. ' And he did us the honour
to repose the greatest confidence in us.
My brother and I attended his funeral,
being, with the exception of his medical
adviser, the only mourners. His wish
was that it should be so.'

Surely he had relatives — friends ? '

He was quite a recluse — quite a recluse,'
said the little lawyer, pursing up

his lips — ' a philosopher, a peculiar man.
I should say now — if it be not irreverent
that one might paraphrase a certain
Scriptural sentence, and say of the professor,
his books were his mother, his
father, and his brethren. He had a
unique library — unique.'

So I have heard,' said the Vicar
wondering if there would be a sale, and
if so, if he could, by hook or by crook
manage to buy one or two books he
knew were in the collection — books
which would be everything to him. ' I
suppose — considering his public spirit —
that he has left his collection to his
college ? '

No,' said Mr Henry, settling his
collar. 'No. I cannot say that he has.
Hfs wull was a simple one, and will
create a certain surprise. He has left

everything, money, houses — he had invested
in house-property, — library, unpublished
manuscripts, all — to one person

A great, a very great proof of his
belief in that one person,' said the Vicar,
slightly disappointed that the chance of
the sale was gone. ' He must indeed
have been deeply attached to — to — the
person, and have had unlimited confidence
in him, or perhaps — her.'

The last suggestion was an afterthought.
The gaunt, grey-haired professor,
as the Vicar remembered him,
was scarcely one to charm the fair sex,
or to care whether he charmed or not.

I agree with you,' said Mr Henry
energetically. ' To my mind, the professor
has done a very noble thing. He
has lived frugally, has saved and amassed
for the sake of this person whom he has

made his heir. But I am forgetting ' — •
he rang the bell — ' I ordered a bottle of
some particular dry sherry to be opened
for you, to refresh you after your journey

The Vicar disclaimed needing any such
stimulant. He was just beginning to
wonder what this new aspect of the
Messrs Everest meant, and an uneasy
dread of he knew not what had come to
him as a sudden chill, when a neat maidservant
entered with a tray, decanters,
glasses, sandwiches, plates. The quickness
suggested that she mj'ght have been
waiting her summons in an ante-room,
which was the fact.

John Black stood up. He was getting
thoroughly uncomfortable. He wanted
neither their wine nor their sandwiches,
nor their new friendliness. One word
of truth, one word of kindliness, years

ago, would have altered his life. Now
they might do as they pleased. It was
too late.

Come, my dear sir,' said the little
man, pouring out three glasses of sherry,
and taking up his glass with a festive
air, as if he were at a wedding or a
christening — ' come ! I am sure you
will not refuse, as you seem interested
in the late lamented professor's affairs,
to drink the health of his heir, lucky
man ! '

The Vicar shook his head.

I am not a man who cares for these
customs,' he said. ' Custom has been set
aside so entirely in my life that you can
scarcely be surprised.'

Mr Walter, who had been very fidgety
during the conversation, looked at his
brother, who remained perfectly unembarrassed,

and who went on, while he
almost forced a glass of wine upon John
Black,—

Then I will propose a toast you can
scarcely refuse to drink, my friend. Long
life to your sons and daughter, and may
you also live to enjoy their happiness ! '

It was a neatly managed little speech.
But like other innocent-seeming things,
it brought about a convulsion — it led to
the overturning and resettling of a life.

John Black grew deadly pale. The
wine-glass fell from his hand, the glass
shivered into glistening powder on the
faded hearthrug.

Stop ! ' he said, in a low, desperate
voice. ' I know now what your business
with me is. I know ! I see it in your
faces ! Don't speak,' he went on fiercely ;
I will not hear you ! You have

brought me here to offer me money, ta
tempt me with books — to forgive the
accursed man who has damned me with
disgrace. Now I see ! Now I understand
why he dare not look me in
the face. Devil ! ' he cried, throwing
up his arms as he seemed to see the
gaunt, white-haired man as he had seen
him once, hurrying through his friend's
rooms. ' It is well for you that you are
dead ! It is well for you that
you are dead ! '

Here he dropped heavily into a chair.
All grew dark before his eyes. But Mr
Walter Everest, who, outside his office
was the worn and meek father of a
dozen obstreperous children, forgot he was
within the legal precincts, and tended
the Vicar quite fraternally till he had
slightly recovered.

My dear Mr Blackett — for there Is no
need of further ceremony, since you have
arrived at the truth so cleverly — you
really must not allow yourself to be overcome
like this — you really must not,' said
Mr Henry, who was hovering uneasily
about this uncomfortable client who transgressed
all rule and precedent. ' You are
too emotional — indeed, far too emotional
Do consider. Be reasonable. Your respected
father was in a singular position.
No one knew of his marriage, and your
mother, to whom he was much attached,
lived but a few minutes after your birth.
■ All was strictly lawful and regular.'

The Vicar was leaning back. His face
was of an ashen tint. His cold deathlike
hands lay one on each knee.

Proofs,' he said, turning his languid
eyes towards Mr Henry — ' proofs ! '

VOL. II.

Certainly, certainly,' said Mr Henry
reassuringly, while Mr Walter's long legs
made one stride to his table, and with one
movement of his long arm clutched a
packet of papers. ' You shall see them,
all in order, in the most satisfactory
manner.'

Here Mr Walter seated himself by the
Vicar, and sympathetically explained.

This,' he said, unfolding a sheet of
letter-paper, ' is the document wherein
John Blackett and Margaret Baird established
their marriage according to the law
of Scotland.'

The Vicar took the paper. His awakened
filial feeling for an unknown mother,
who had paid for his earthly existence with
her own, was urging him at least to protect
her memory. He scornfully turned
his eyes from the masculine declaration

heading the sheet, to fix them upon the uncertain
feminine handwriting below — Margaret
Baird's declaration. It was almost
a horrible minute — that minute when John
Blackett gazed at the faint, faded writing
which had been traced by the hand of his
mother. The closest tie united him to the
being who had penned those words ; yet,
until to-day, he had not even known her
name.

This is the certificate of the English
marriage.'

The Vicar saw that on a certain date,
very shortly after the Scottish marriage,
John Blackett and Margaret Baird were
married by licence at a certain church ina
London suburb. Then he glanced at
the certificate of his baptism two years
later, and that of his mother's death. But
he refused to look at the certificates

connected with his father, the late
professor.

I will have nothing to do with him or
his legacy,' he said. ' My one effort will be
to forget that he ever existed. But these
he said, looking towards Mr Walter with
so sad a smile, that the lawyer, hopelessly
off duty, felt a lump gather in his throat —
these, if you please, I will keep and bequeath
to my children as my most precious
possession.'

He folded the legal proofs of his
mother's wifehood with a reverent touch.
Meanwhile, Mr Walter suggested, in an
undertone to his brother, the advisability of
summoning a doctor. He did not like the
Vicar's death-like appearance.

We must ask him first,' was Mr
Henry's cautious whisper, looking at their
client as if he were a torpedo, and might

suddenly explode and scatter that quiet
legal dwelling to the four winds. Then he
gingerly suggested — did Mr Blackett feel
a little better ? He must remember that
it was not so very long since his convalescence.
Now there was a sharp young
practitioner just round the corner, a friend
of theirs, who would come in and prescribe
with the greatest pleasure in life.

A client of yours ? ' said the Vicar, with
a scornful glance. ' Thanks, Mr Everest'
heavily staggering to his feet — ' but —
but I have had experience with one client
of yours which does not encourage me to
have anything to do with the others.'

John Black, or legally speaking, Blackett,

was struggling to be himself; but his

breath left him as he spoke, and he clutched

at the mantelpiece.

Mr Walter suororested that he would


himself take the Vicar to his own home ta
be nursed by his wife, and that Miss
Blackett should be sent for, then matters
might be discussed quietly in a few
days. But the uncomfortable client was
an obstinate man. He negatived all
suggestions.

Still the brothers Everest were determined
not to trust him. Once, long ago,
a man had gone from their office and had
poisoned himself at his chambers.

When it came in their way now to make
private disclosures of a startling kind to a
client, they looked after him, and did not
let him go scot-free. So they suggested
that some friend should be sent for.

I have none,' grimly said John. * At
least none in your fine city — except Messrs
Cotton & Woolstone, of course. I am
sure * — sarcastically — ' they would leave

business of the most pressing character to
attend upon me.'

Then there was a discussion. John
Blackett insisted upon departing, and
they almost barred his way.

At last there was a compromise. Mr
Walter Everest would accompany him
and leave him in safety — somewhere —
but would only leave him with safety
guaranteed.

So they two departed in a hansom to
seek out an old college friend of the Vicar's
who had chambers in the Temple. They
alighted ; and while Mr Walter made inquiries
here and there about the tall,
quiet buildings, the Vicar sat on one of
the benches near the fountain. Children
were playing in a subdued fashion, lest
they should be turned out by the awful
gentleman in uniform ' who came sauntering

about. The feathery spray glittered
in the sunlight. The Thames rippled a
few hundred yards away. Picturesque
barges moved slowly by. Then came a
puffing steamer. A dog came up to the
Vicar, and, putting his head on his knee,
looked up wistfully in his face. Such a
look, he sadly thought, might have been
given to the dead professor in time gone
by — by his mother — the unacknowledged
wife. On parting, Mr Henry Everest had
placed in his hands a few private letters,
which, he said, would explain the situation.
He touched them as they lay in the
letter case in his breast-pocket — he longed,
yet dreaded to see them.

Then back came Mr Walter, unsuccessful.
He had found the friend's chambers,
but he was still out of town, and not expected
to return for weeks.

You must really come home with me ;
there is nothing else I can suggest, unless
you will allow me to accompany you
to Crowsfoot.'

But this the new legatee would not
hear of. What was to be done? In his
dilemma, John Black thought of Hal Romayne,
and, following the thought of Hal,
came the overwhelming recollection that,
if he accepted his father's legacy and the
situation altogether, Griselda could no
longer be Hal's inferior in the eyes of
the world.

He thrust the idea away, as a temptation.
But he mentioned Hal to Mr
Everest.

The very thing,' said that gentleman
We are no distance from Pall Mall.
If he is a young man about town, he will
scarcely have rubbed or breakfasted yet'

They drove to Pall Mall. Mr Henry
Romayne occupied a first floor. He
was at home, his ' man ' informed Mr
Everest, who went down and fetched the
Vicar, greatly relieved in his mind.

'That was a nasty bit of business
thought the lawyer, as he returned in
the hansom to tell his brother he had left
their eccentric client with one of the
most genial young fellows ' he had ever
met — ' a remarkably crooked and awkward
bit of business ! But Henry was quite upto
the mark ; he always is.' The lanky
Walter had a fatuous admiration for his
sharper brother. ' The man has such a
queer, exceptional character. Great ability
sound moral foundation, certainly, but
no common sense! No worldly wisdom !
Henry said that. He has always thoughtless
of John Black — Blackett, since he

took that one *'No" of ours, and made
no effort to find out his real status. Of
course he could have done so, if he had
gone about it in the right way ! '

He remembered well how irritated his
brother had been with the young man
whose peculiar father had determined not
to acknowledge him as his son, since the
day when he was born, and the young
wife, whose existence no one suspected,
died. In those days neither the professor
nor his son was a straightforward, satisfactory
client. Both were outside ordinary
calculation. Mr Henry Everest had
formed a pretty correct estimate when he
said to his brother, —

The professor thought his private
marriage justifiable, because, as a married
man, he must lose his fellowships and
cripple his income. He thought his repudiation

— for that is the correct term —
of his legitimate son justifiable for the
same reason. I daresay he feels he is
right. But the plain fact is, that he is
wrapt up in himself till all natural feeling
is dead. His passion for Margaret Baird
was utterly selfish, and, speaking as man
to man, his treatment of his son amounts
to a moral crime.'

Henry Everest had tried his best to
induce the professor at least to adopt the
child, or to see him from time to time.
But Professor Blackett meant to return to
his old life, and to keep the memory of
Margaret Baird, his sweet Scotch lassie,
buried in the ossified organ he called his
heart. The blooming blue-eyed young
creature had awakened that heart to life and
love ; but with her the life and love died
too. And he feared to have those feelings

reawakened by her child, the child he had
refused to look at and intended never to
see.

He had provided for John. He had
inquired now and then as to his welfare
and progress. When he read the crushing
condemnations of his son's book, he
was angry — angry with the critics for
their excessive severity, angry with John
for embarking upon troubled waters
among dangerous mental shoals ; angry
with the Everests because he had not
been told beforehand ; and, although he
did not know it, angry with himself when
he saw that his son had inherited his
power of thought, and that, if he had
been under his own guidance, that power
might have developed and shone upon
the world quite differently.

At first he went to the Everests to say,

No more money from me,' to stop John's
controversial tendency in the most effectual
way. But then he read John's book,
and was so possessed with admiration,
longing, regret, remorse, that his troubled,
obstinate mind wore upon his feeble body,
and his end was hastened.

It was true that he had saved from his
income, rigidly. The Vicar was heir to a
capital which, safely invested, would bring
him an income of between two and three
thousand pounds yearly. Then there
were houses in Cambridge, and, above all,
that choice library of books and valuable
manuscripts.

Hal Romayne was astonished, overwhelmed,
when Chancelll, his valet, announced
that the Reverend Mr Black
was below, and wished to see him. Wild

hopes — vague imaginations — Griselda
sending for him — the Vicar on their side
Sir Hubert and his mother relenting
made his blood course at fever-speed.
His shout, * Bring him up at once!' astonished
Chancelll, who had of late seen
his young master gloomy, or savage, or
irritable. He was just out of his bath ;
he rubbed and scrubbed and hustled on
his clothing, brushed his damp curly hair,
and came rushing through the folding-doors
into his sitting-room all glowing,
bright, animated.

His eager inquiry, * All right at home ?'
answered, he invited both lawyer and
client to breakfast ; and, before he gave
them time to say nay, he sent Chancelll
flying to order everything, anything —
whatever could be had and as soon as
possible, and particularly some of those

pints of champagne, ' you know — those
the Marquis d'Estrees sent me, Chancelll ! '
Little wonder that homely Walter Everest,
although declining his hospitality, thought
Hal Romayne one of the most genial young
fellows he had ever met, and left him feeling
safe that the Vicar was in the best possible
hands. Hal, too, was going to Feather's
Court that very night by the 6.20 train.

Poor, short-sighted human nature I
Poor Walter Everest ! Before that day
would be dead for ever — what was he
not destined to suffer at being the innocent
cause of his client's intent to journey
by that fated train !

As soon as Walter Everest left those
two — Griselda's father and Griselda's
lover — alone, Hal was struck by the
Vicar's pallor. Was he ill, or merely
disturbed, worried ? All the young

man's innate tenderness sprang up.
This was the father of his betrothed
wife, his cherished love. He had come
to him — to him — in his trouble. It
must be a trouble ! Hal gently insisted
upon the Vicar's resting in a large easy-chair.


He drew another chair close, and
talked, agreeably, as he knew how.
The Vicar gradually re-animated, as far
as he could, after that ugly shock.

Hal's room was a change of scene
indeed !

I should scarcely have guessed this to
be a bachelor's chamber,' said John Black,
presently looking round with a faint smile.
It is more like a fine lady's boudoir. Ah,
Hal, it is well that you are your father's
heir ! You would miss the purple and the
fine linen, my boy.'

VOL. II. Q

'A fit of effeminacy ! ' said John Black
bitterly. ' Hal, It Is not your fault that
you lack In manliness, that you are fitful
as a passionate woman. But, If you
were but a bit stronger — rude and
rough, If you please, but with the promise
of a man In you — I could give you
Griselda with some hope that you two
would be happy. I would make sacrifices
even which would secure your
parents' consent.'

Hal saw his advantage and seized It.
At this juncture Chancelll and a maidservant
brought In the two-o'clock
'breakfast.' So, while the Vicar was reluctantly
partaking of the delicacies provided
for him, there was no further
conversation on the subject of a nearer
and stronger tie between host and guest.
After Hal had insisted on John Black's

making somewhat of a meal, their talk
was resumed. The Vicar gradually succumbed
to his young friend's indefinable
charm. While he was coaxed into concessions,
he knew he was being coaxed ;
but he admired the handsome, winning
young fellow the more for that very
fact. Certainly Hal Romayne had not
the qualities he would wish to see in
Griselda's husband. He was erratic,
passionate, capricious ; but he was
generous, loving, and thoughtful when
he chose to be thoughtful. And, last,
but most important — so important as to
fairly outweigh all other considerations
Griselda loved him.

While Chancelll packed his master's
portmanteaux in the adjoining room, the
Vicar and Hal still talked 'Griselda'
over their coffee.

A soft mellow autumn haze was-settling
about St James's Park as they
started for the station in Hal's tilbury,
Chancelll and the luggage following in a
cab. The Vicar's morning storm was
succeeded by a calm. He felt peaceful.
He was at rest, as it were, he told
himself. The time had not yet come
for him to act. He enjoyed the old
city, so beautiful in her evening garb
of subdued lights, murmurs, subsiding
activity, and over all the glitter of tiny
fires, the lamps. The tide of life was
ebbing under the quiet starry sky.

Even London had her hour of peace
thought John Black. Perhaps his 
in life was reached ; there
would be no more turmoil for him !

Of course, if he chose to accept the
position of Professor Blackett's 

son and heir,
all or most of his difficulties would be
over ; and Griselda and the boys —

He shrank from active thought.

To-morrow, tomorrow ! ' he said to
himself.

And he said the same to Hal Romayne,
who broke the silence by some leading
question meant to probe the Vicar's
intentions with regard to his and
Griselda^s affairs.

To - morrow, my boy ! ' he said.
There is plenty of time. You have
your life before you.'

*What if I had notes' said Hal, half
in jest, half in earnest. ' Do you know,
when I am shutting my eyes at night,
I often think I may not awake — of late
particularly .^

Since you have been more reckless ^

If you had really thought seriously, it
would have been a bad moment, Hal.'

Hal shook his head.

There is such a thing as being
desperate,' he said. ' You may talk to
one then of death and hell or heaven,
but they are mere words. They run
through the mind like water runs down
one's throat in fever, with as little
effect. I have often felt that, if I must
live in the humour I have been in
lately— feeling no pleasure, only sick of
life — I would rather die.'

But we have not the choice,' said
John Black gravely. * In a moment a
wave of Eternity rushes upon us and
sweeps us away — all chances of doing
good, of helping others, of executing
our tiny atom of the great mosaic,
past recall.'

And those who wish to go are left
high and dry upon the shore,' said Hal.
Say what you will, it is an awful
puzzle.'

Here they drove up to the station.
The 6.20 train, which had travelled
safely to its destination day by day for
so many years, quietly dropping its
living freight at intervals along the way,
was drawn up at the platform. The
ticket-collectors were busily clipping the
tickets of the crowd that was hurrying
past the open gates, each one eagerly
rushing to his or her doom. It was
such an every - day affair, this going
home or down the line by the 6.20,
that the idea that so steady and sober
a means of locomotion — not only steady,
but so well-tried — would come to grief
on that particular day occurred to none,

to no passenger, to no official. No warning
ghost, no bad omen, no difficulty,
no ' coincidence ' gave a saving hint.
Those careless chatty passengers, — one
calling out for an evening paper, another
chaffing ' a guard, a third looking
for an own particular corner, others-regular
passengers — seeking the 'set'
they liked to travel with, — were presently
to be shot out of life into eternity as
suddenly and unceremoniously as if they
were a load of sand.

There were two minutes only before
the train started. Chancelll was having
Hal's luggage labelled. Hal rushed
off to the ticket - office. The Vicar
compared his watch with the illuminated
station - clock. His watch was a few
minutes slow.

The guard was impatiently pacing the

platform. The men were about to shut
the gates. ' Time's up, sir,' shouted one.
Hal Romayne came running up. He
and the Vicar hurried. They got into
a first-class smoking compartment, they
and the others to whom those carriages
would be the instruments of death.
Then the guard shut the door, and —
locked it.

END OF VOL. II.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

AT C7»«r.i^A-Jha.MPAIQN
STACKS

H

HP

A NOVEL.

BY

THE AUTHOR OF " THE GARDEN OF EDEN,"

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. III.

LONDON : F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

1886.

eau Rights reserved. \

Crown Svo, doth, 35. 6d. each.
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS AND BOOKSTALLS.

By FLORENCE MARRYAT.

PEERESS AND PLAYER.
FACING THE FOOTLIGHTS.
A BROKEN BLOSSOM.
MY SISTER THE ACTRESS.

THE HEART OF JANE WARNER.
UNDER THE LILIES & ROSES.
MY OWN CHILD.
HER WORLD AGAINST A LIE.

By ANNIE THOMAS (Mrs Pender Clip).

FRIENDS AND LOVERS. ALLERTON TOWERS.

JENIFER. j KATE Valiant.

By LADY CONSTANCE HOWARD.

SWEETHEART AND WIFE.
ONLY A VILLAGE MAIDEN.

MATED WITH A CLOWN.
MOLLIE DARLING.

By MRS HOUSTON, Author of "Recommended to Mercy."

Barbara's warning.

By MRS ALEXANDER FRASER.

A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY. | THE MATCH OF THE SEASON.

A FATAL PASSION.

By IZA DUFFUS HARDY.

LOVE, HONOUR AND OBEY. I NOT EASILY JEALOUS.

ONLY A LOVE STORY.

By JEAN Middlemost.

POISONED ARROWS.

By H. Loveth-CAMERON.

A NORTH COUNTRY MAID. | A DEAD PAST.

By DORA RUSSELL. I By LADY VIOLET GREVILLE.

OUT OF EDEN. | KEITH'S WIFE.

By NELLIE FORTESCUE HARRISON, Author of "So Runs my Dream."

FOR ONE man's PLEASURE.

By EDMUND Leather.
THE actor's wife.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

G R I S E L D A.

CHAPTER I.

EW would ever forget that eventful
night at Crowsfoot Station,
after the terrible news had
been telegraphed that the 6.20 train from
London was run into by an express, and
was smashed, telescope, crushed.

The crowd of villagers — parents, children,
or wives, and their relatives — who
had beloved ones in the doomed train,
still wailed and cried, a surging ungoverned.

III. A

able crowd upon the platform. Doctor
Mayne and the station-master tried in vain
to calm and to disperse them.

Hugh Blunt — who had sickened to
faintness at the sight of his love Griselda
coming in to learn that not only her
beloved father, but Hal Romayne, whom
she so dearly loved, was a passenger in
the wrecked train — speedily recovered.
For Griselda glided through the crowd
like a ghost, and laid her hand upon his
arm.

Tell me, please,' she said.

She was perfectly composed. Hugh
marvelled — wondered.

Mr Black — may not — perhaps — most
likely, has not come by this — we don't
know — I should think not,' he faltered
and stammered out.

Papa was coming by this train. whatever

has happened, he is there. Now,
what is to be done ? '

Those great eyes looked searchingly
into his out of that beautiful face — oh, so
deadly pale !

How can we get to him ? '

'We cannot! It is forty miles down
the line!' cried Hugh.

Forty miles ! Cannot we catch a down
train to Cowbrook Junction, and get a
special .^ '

By that time he might be here — then
the traffic is suspended — then' — Hugh
drew a deep breath before he could stab
his darling to the heart. 'Griselda,' he said,
miserably, and for once the tears ran plentifully
from his eyes, 'dear Sir Hubert is
in there — the waiting-room — struck down,
poor father — he came to meet his son.'

Griselda was only a girl. She swerved ;

then Hugh caught her. She had fainted.
But her strong will overcame impressions.
In a few moments she struggled up.

'I know — I understand,' she said
pantlngly. ' There is the doctor. We
must not think of ourselves. Doctor
Mayne — Sir Hubert — poor Sir Hubert!
Let me help — '

She knows all,' said Hugh.

It will do her good to help,' said the
little doctor. ' Now, Griselda, my dear,
you will very likely have to be nurse for
some time to come ; so, before you really
perform — before the wounded and those
to help them arrive — you may have a
little practice. Sir Hubert is in there.
Come along ! '

Action is everything, ' he thought,
In such a crisis, in such suspense, to
pause to think means madness.'

He supported Griselda into the .
There, on an improvised
couch of a mattress and blankets, hastily
furnished by the station-master, lay Sir
Hubert Romayne.

The old man looked grander in the
semblance of death — • stretched out stiff
and straight, his hands lying limply at
his sides, his regular features sunken,
livid, his grey hair wet with the cooling
lotion the station-master's wife, kneeling
at his side, was gently dabbing on his
pale brow — than in ruddy life, when he
had a half-shy, half-proud, and somewhat
undignified presence, born of his subservience
to his imperious wife.

Miss Black will take your place, Mrs
Wright. We shall want you and your
house directly,' said Doctor Mayne, ina
low tone. So Mrs Wright gave her

place to Griselda. Doctor Mayne gave
her his directions in the common-place
business-like way in which surgeons face
their awful responsibilities and fight
death ; and Hal Romayne's beloved was
alone with Hal Romayne's father in his
dire need and sore danger.

What a strange scene — the waiting-room,
with its drawn Venetian blinds,
heavy table, and coarse leather-covered
chairs on the cocoa-nut matting ! Sir
Hugh lay opposite the fireplace. Gris-ella's
eyes would rest upon a gaudy advertisement
of some provincial hotel.
There was the palatial building, with a
grand garden and a planted carriage-road,
with ladies on horseback careering
and prancing, and barouches and victorias
coming and going, and underneath
was the printed sentence, — ' The

Universal Hotel Company, Limited.
Capital, ^500,000.'

How small, poor, and pitiful the pictured
scheme looked here now, In that
silent room, with one dim candle burning,
and that awful hum — wail, mingled
with the tread of many feet upon the
gravel outside !

In the midst of life we are in death
The well-known words were truths today,
she felt, as she watched the seemingly
dying man. A stupor, a mental drowsiness
was coming to numb her emotions — God's
merciful help to those In such straits.

Then she heard a shout, a roar, going
up from the crowd outside.

A pilot engine !

Outside, under the stars, the stationmaster
had called aside Hugh, Doctor
Mayne, and the curate, all of whom were

in the Romayne circle, and, as be was
doing their best to soothe and tranquillize
the relatives whose beloved ones were in
the wrecked train. He took them to the
end of the platform where late autumn
roses gleamed white in the darkness
against the low brick wall, and said, —

We shall know the worst directly. A
pilot is on the way.' At that moment, ' ting-ting
' went the electric bell. * There ! ' said
Mr Wright significantly, hurrying off. ' In
three minutes at the utmost.'

If Hugh had been forewarned of those
three minutes, he would have anticipated
exquisite mental torture.

As it was, no sooner had he heard that
the crucial moment was at hand than he
became calm, cool. His emotions were
petrified, his active power was keenly
alive, his will was a rock.

He did not know how, or why, or when
this happened. He only knew it was so,
and said, ' Thank God ! '

The others — Doctor Mayne and Mr
Vivian, the curate — seemed equally prepared
with himself.

During that three minutes they talked
commonplaces.

Everything is ready upstairs,' said the
doctor. ' Mrs Mayne came — I sent her
back for stores — she is here — with the
maid. I sent off a very good old widow,
Mrs Hood, to prepare Jemima for contingencies.
Ah, there are my colleagues ! '

He went off to meet three local doctors.

Has anyone sent for Lady Romayne
sent to Feather's Court .-^ '

It was the first thing I did,' lisped
Mr Vivian.

He was a younger son of people

not ' eccentrically philanthropic' His first
thought had been for Lady Romayne,
who had been an active agent in introducing
him to Crowsfoot, and Crowsfoot
to him.

The son of the miller with whom the
Reverend Mr Vivian lodged went off on
his father's heavy cob with a hastily-written
note, intended to prepare Lady Romayne
for the impending shock. When that
sullen, desperate roar went up from the
agonised crowd on the platform as the
pilot engine came dashing along the line,
and drew up at the station, Hal's mother
was on her way to learn the worst.

It has come ! ' muttered Hugh, involuntarily
clenching his fists in his effort
to prepare himself for the blow.

As the engine stopped, the two blackened
men — driver and stoker — were

rushed at by the white-faced, eager
crowd. Men and boys tried to clamber
upon the engine, to swarm upon it.
The engine-driver had borne this scene
whenever he had stopped.

Back — hold back, can't yer ? ' he
cried roughly. Then he made a sign
to the station-master, whom he knew.
Mr Wright struggled bravely to reach
him, but failed. The curate tried to
expostulate. Good people, pray be calm,'
he mildly said. But his voice was asa
whisper in a roaring whirlwind. Suddenly
Hugh skirted the crowd, and
sprang upon the engine.

Drive on a bit ! ' he cried.

The driver obeyed. The pilot was offa
hundred yards before anyone actually
knew that she was gone.

Now ! ' said Hugh fiercely.

Never saw such a sight, sir, and I've
been in many accidents. Train regular
smashed and minced into splinters no
bigger than this here little finger-nail o'
mine. Dead '^. I'd rather be one of them
corpses than them poor unfortunate as have
got to lie in such mortal agonies as I
never see. It's enough to sicken a feller
for railways for his life. Fault ? Nobody's
fault, as far as I knows. Did I
recognise anyone ? Yes, I did — two — a
pal o' mine — a nephew of my wife's, who
was a-lying on the embankment lookin'
for all the world as if he was asleep and
a-dreamin' like my little 'un at home in his
bassinet ; he was stone dead, he was. I
recognised him, but only one other. Rest
seemed to me to be muddled up like, just
like a heap of Punches and Judas. No,
they didn't move, and there weren't much

noise. Did you recognise anyone, Bill ? '
to the stoker. ' No ? Well, he's fresh
on the line, sir. The other? It's a poor
tale to tell ; but t'other was the wally,
as they call 'em, to the young gentleman
at Feather's Court. He won't dead. He
wor in a second-class, front of the train.
He knew me, he did. He sent after me.
I come to him. " I'm a-doing," he ses.
I didn't say " nay." He wos a-dyin', if
ever a man wos. I ses, '' You hasn't got
no call to bother about anything as you
leave behind, old man ? " He ses, '' No " —
at least if you can call it a saying' ; for I see
his lips move, and didn't hear. I stoops
close, and he ses, " My young master —
and Mr Black. Take care of the luggage —
take care of the luggage*' Then he gave
a gasp like a fish wriggling on the grass,
and he was gone too. Them were his

last words, *' Take care of the luggage."
'

And — and — the gentlemen ? ' panted
Hugh.

Lor' bless you, sir ! They was in at
the back ; I giv' one look. That was
enough for me ! ' He turned aside, and
spat significantly. ' There's no call to tell
yer what I see. But it ain't no manner
of use bolstering up the truth. There
ain't a man at the rear of that train as'll
live to tell the tale, and that's about it.'

One instant's horrible silence — a transfiguration
of misery to Hugh ; then he
turned, wan and ghastly, and motioned
the driver to return to the platform.

The terrible tale was soon told. The
agitation gave way to a panic-stricken
hush. Some of the widows and orphans
were supported from the scene. These

were not a few, for the 6.20 train from
London picked up bricklayers, labourers,
and others all along the line who lived
at Crowsfoot, tempted there by the
advantages enjoyed by the Crowsfoot
people under John Black's ministration.


The curate and Doctor Mayne, aided
by practitioners from neighbouring villages,
and those clergymen who had heard the
bad news, did what they could. But little
Doctor Mayne's stern self-possession was
nearly upset when Mr Wright, the stationmaster,
said to him in a bitter sort of way, — -

Ah, it's all no go, sir ! They mean
well ; but we want him!

At the ' him ' he choked, and hurried
away. The Vicar, John Black — the one
who had moulded and led these people
for so many years, who knew their lives

almost as well as he knew his own — was
dead, or dying !

Hugh's one thought was — Griselda.
He must tell her, he must tell her, he
feverishly repeated to himself. Oh, would
his merciful God give him the strength to
crush that dear heart in the least cruel
way ? Trust the task to another ? Not
he! If It killed her — he must soften the
torture — he would be able to soften the
torture, he loved her so. But he must
have one moment alone, silent.

He made his way through the station,
and, crossing the yard, leaned up against
the paling of a copse known for Its
nightingales. It was now silent as
death. The nightingales had fled south ;
but he was glad. Their song just then
would have jarred upon him.

He drew a long breath, lifted his hat,

and let the cool niorht-wind blow about
his hair. He looked up at the shining
stars, each one a great world, a link in
the eternal chain of a blessed Eternity.
The thought of how short, how fleeting,
though how important was this life, with
its grinding cares, bitter disappointments,
sudden joys, and terrible catastrophes,
steadied him. Hugh was not religious,
according to the orthodox meaning of
the term. But he was deeply thinking,
and he knew that man's soul, with its
possibilities, could not be only for days,
weeks, months, or even years, — for, indeed,
any limited existence.

I must do it.'

He faced his duty. He turned to go
and perform it, when two red sparks
danced in the dark road to his left,
where he could just see the tall black

VOL. III. B

trees, blacker than their dusky background
; thin wheels grated on the
gravel, and a vehicle came dashing into
the station-yard.

The light dog-cart from Feather's
Court — Lady Romayne ! He hurried
forward. As the cart drew up, the
station door opened, a flood of light fell
upon the unfortunate mother. She was
white, panting — all dignity gone — she
almost fell out of the dog cart into
Hugh's arms.

My boy, my boy ! Where is he ? '
she gasped, clinging to Hugh. ' Oh, Mr
Blunt, have pity ! Take me to him ! '

Hush ! You must hope, we must
hope,' said Hugh vaguely. 'Oh, Doctor
Mayne' — with relief, as the doctor came
hurrying out, — ' here is Lady Romayne
! '

Ah, that's right ! ' said the doctor
cheeringly. * Now, my dear madam, we
must not exaggerate, we must bear up.
Come into Mrs Wright's room. Take
my arm.' Then, supporting the trembling
woman, he whispered, * Tell Gris-ella
all ; she will break it to her the
best. Bring her to Mrs Wright's room
at once.'

While Mrs Wright attended to Lady
Romayne and Doctor Mayne gave hera
composing draught, Hugh went to
•Griselda.

She was still sitting there, waiting,
bathing Sir Hubert's forehead. She had
heard the bustle and the cries and the
sad hush outside. No one had come
to tell her what news had arrived. But
her life had taught her to wait.

She raised her eyes as Hugh came

in, and read all there was to read in his
grief-stricken face.

She rose — gestured to him to stay,
and stepped softly to him.

Both ? ' she asked.

We — cannot — hear. Perhaps —
neither.'

God will help us ! ' said the stricken
girl. And her eyes seemed lighted by
a supernatural ray as she looked upward.
Life — this life seemed to her
over — past, gone. They had begun another.
She and all those suddenly
bereaved had begun to follow.

Lady Romayne is here. Will you
tell her?'

'When I know what there is to tell.'
Hugh briefly narrated the arrival of
the pilot-engine and the driver's story.
*We might have hoped but for that

valet's last words,' he added. 'It is
certain they were in the train.'

Take me,' said Griselda, putting her
hand on Hugh's arm. He led her
through the stragglers waiting about
the station in vague expectation of they
knew not what, out upon the platform.
Here the station-master came up, a new
excitement barely veiled by his self-controlled
manner.

A special is signalled — Cowbrook
Junction.'

i\ny directions ? '

We don't know what she is yet. But
she may be bringing — some — home.'

You must prepare, Lady Romayne,
and be prepared yourself, for anything,'
said Hugh to Griselda desperately.
Then the door of the station-master's
sitting-room closed upon her.

How incongruous ! Lady Romayne,
in her fine silk dinner-dress, jewels on
throat and arms, and glittering rings in
her ears and on her fingers, lay back
in Mrs Wright's basket-chair by the
fire, sobbing, her handkerchief to her
eyes. Mrs Mayne kneeling by her,
Doctor Mayne standing on the hearth-rug,
vainly trying to soothe her before
taking her to her husband.

You know we cannot have this sort of
thing near Sir Hubert,' he said to Griselda,
as she came up to him. He spoke impatiently.
He thought Lady Romayne's
lack of self-control unpardonable selfishness.

Lady Romayne, suddenly looking up,
saw Griselda.

Ms he — is there news .^ ' she almost
shrieked. The girl's composure made
her hope. * Oh, tell me ! '

She clutched at Griselda's hands.
And Griselda only felt that this washer
beloved, lost Hal's mother. The
sight reanimated her, as the sight of her
fatherless children will sometime reanimate
a new-made widow.

Leave us, ' she said. Then she
knelt down by Lady Romayne, and,
caressing her hands, looked into her
swollen eyes with love and hope. She
talked in a firm, yet tender way, as to
an unreasonably frightened child. She
admitted that the accounts of the accident
were alarming. But they must
allow for exaggeration. ' My father
seems to have been with him,' she
said ; ' and he always travels in the
middle of the train. The 6.20 is a long
train, too.' She would not even admit
that, if not killed, their travellers must

be wounded. But Lady Romayne was
unreasonable. One minute she was
dissolved in tears, the next she sprang
up, wringing her hands, wailing out that
she could not bear it, she could not bear it.

'What should I do without Hal?'
was her cry.

You can do anything — we can bear
anything ! ' said Griselda. * Oh, Lady
Romayne, I have loved Hal ever since
I was a tiny child, and my one ^ great
pleasure was to see him — anywhere,
anyhow, even if he did not see me.
But I had to learn to do without him.
It seemed very hard. But, after I had
borne it a day, it seemed easier to bear
it a week, and, after I had borne it a
month, I knew I could bear it a year,
and even a lifetime ; and, if necessary,
you will feel this — '

Oh no, no, never ! ' cried the unhappy
woman, in a fresh agony. ' I
am not Hke you. After living with your
father in that poor, wretched way, you
might put up with anything. But I
have always had everything I wanted.
Oh, it is too hard — too cruel ! '

Hush ! ' said Griselda suddenly.

There was a rush of many feet, the
murmur of voices, then a shrill whistle,
and the hoarse panting of an engine.

The mother started up with a shriek.
She and Griselda were alone.

Why, it is a train ! They have come ! '
Someone looked in, banged the door,

and locked it on the outside.

They have locked us in ! ' Lady
Romayne flew to the door, shook it,
beat against it, screamed, ' Let me outlet
me out ! ' She was fairly maddened

by this, which she thought meant the
worst ; then she rushed to the window,
threw it open, and leant out.

Hastily-improvised torches were flaring,
the fitful light flickering upon the ghastly
sight of covered, still forms being lifted
from the compartments of a special train
of a few carriages. Griselda watched
with silent horror over her shoulder.

Lady Romayne was speechless now ;
and, when someone beckoned Doctor
Mayne and the station-master, and the
three together lifted a body out of a
first-class carriage covered with Hal's
travelling coat, she gave a low moan,
tottered back, and fell in a heap upon
the floor.

Griselda could not help her. Sick and
faint, she leant back against the windowsill.
The voices and sounds seemed to

recede, the lights to grow dim and ta
disappear, like lamps in a dense fog.

How long they remained thus she could
not have told. She felt chill. She afterwards
remembered noticing the scent of
some late mignonette in a flower-box on
the window-sill, and seeing Mrs Wright's
tabby cat jump up on a chair and rub
against her. That was all.

Then the door was roughly unlocked
and forms came flocking in ; and a voice
cried ' Mother ! ' and there was talking and
tramping about ; and she knew no more till
she felt warm drops tumbling on her face
and her hands being kissed by rough kisses ;
and she awoke to find her head resting on
her father's knee, and he, well, strong, bending
over his exhausted but happy child.

Then her tired eyes saw another face.
And Griselda felt — as if she were in heaven.

HE railway accident and those
horrible hours of suspense
were things of the past.
Their effects were being dealt with.
Crowsfoot and its inhabitants were busy.
The Vicars story of his and Hal's
escape was a strange one. The two
were locked into a first-class compartment,
and the doomed train was on
the point of starting, when the Vicar
suddenly found that he had left his
pocket-book containing the bundle of
letters given him by the lawyers when

they disclosed his true story to him at
Hal's chambers. To open the door with
his own railway - key was an instant's
work. Hal, startled, sprang out after
him. They had barely time to see
Chancelll — the unfortunate valet who
was to die in an hour or two — and shout
to him to wait at the station or proceed
to Feather's Court with the luggage,
and say they would arrive by a
later train — before the ill-fated 6.20
moved off and had started on her
death-journey.

They returned to Pall Mall, found the
pocket-book, and, after chatting over a
cup of coffee, strolled back to the station
to start by the 8.15 train.

The first shock was when Hal showed
the tickets at the barrier, and the man
informed him that ' there wouldn't be

no more trains on that there line that
night. The Hne was blocked.'

Bit by bit — for the officials were
reticent — they learned the dreadful truth.
Then both, agitated, thought of Griselda.
To do Hal justice, his second thought
was for his father. The Idea of the
mother, who had first spoiled and then
thwarted him, never once troubled him.

They went to the telegraph office.
Telegraphic communication was Interrupted.


What Is to be done ? ' said the Vicar,
in despair. It was not only his darling's
anxiety and suspense that wrung his
heart — It was the thought of so many
of his flock he Intimately knew in
pain. In danger — agony of body and
mind — and he not there to help.

We must have a special,' said Hal,

i

hurrying him off to the chief office of
the London terminus.

They were civilly received. But at
the idea of a private special the heads
of the official department looked doubtful.


You see we have no precedent,
gentlemen.'

Hal, in his passionate turmoil, strode
about the office and offered doubles
— the usual fee. But —

Money is no object at this juncture,'
gravely said the treasurer. ' Still, if you
will wait a minute, I will see what can
be done.'

He disappeared behind the scenes,
and presently came back to say that, if
they chose to be volunteers for the
special train which was on the point of
starting for the scene of the catastrophe

with doctors, nurses, and ambulance
necessities, he would smuggle them in.

They acquiesced with grateful alacrity,
and Hal insisted on leaving his name to
head any number of subscriptions which
might follow the disaster. Then they
started with the relieving contingent. They
gave active help to the few maimed survivors
at the Junction, the sickening scene
of the smash ; then they proceeded,
with the injured and the dead, along
the line to Crowsfoot. The body
covered with Hal's travelling - coat —
which Lady Romayne saw through the
window of the station-master's parlour
was that of poor Chancelll, Hal's faithful
valet.

The general bereavement brought
people to a level. No distinction was
made. While Sir Hugh lay in his

grand bed-chamber, gradually rallying-from
what proved to be a mild paralytic
seizure, poor labourers who had not
been too dangerously wounded to betaken
to Feather's Court occupied the
soft satin-hung beds in the guest chambers.
There was a staff of nurses,,
among whom Hal's younger sister, the
bright, fair-haired Mabel, and Griselda,.
were juniors, — and took orders from the
experienced as meekly as if they had
been two under-housemaids in the great
mansion. Lady Romayne, who was still
in a low nervous state, with occasional
bursts of hysterical tears, hovered about
and humbly offered her services. That
cruel night had changed the proud self-assertion
lady into a timid trembling
woman.

The chartering of the Court as a
VOL. in. c

hospital was Hal's doing. The scene —
when he was surrounded by the maimed,
the dead, and the dying, and knew that
but for some almost miraculous accident
that simple incident of the Vicar's
forgetfulness of his pocket-book — he
would have made one of the ghastly
crowd, was before him wherever he
went. He was haunted by the words,
One shall be taken, and the other left.'
He had never been so impressed — so
awe-stricken.

I cannot understand it,' he said, when
he brought himself to tell the Vicar of
his feelings. ' Here is my brother, a
steady-going serious fellow, who carries
off prizes by the half-dozen, and tells
the girls a parson's life is a sort of
heaven on earth which he longs to
enter, he would make a far better head

of the family than I ever can ! There
is a warp in me — I cannot settle down.
With one exception, I am changeable
as the wind. I like a thing to-day
which is hateful to me tomorrow ; I
hunt eagerly and closely for some fancy
which possesses me, like a child hunts
a butterfly ; but the moment I know I
may seize it, I turn aside, disgusted.
Yet I am left— left. What for .^ I can
never do any good. I am doomed to
be a curse.'

The Vicar took Hal's talk at his own
valuation, and, if he did not exactly
preach, spoke sensibly of life and its
peculiarities.'

I know more about you than you do
yourself, my boy,' he said. ' I know
your grave faults and your noble
qualities. You, as it were, hold your

future in your own hands. You are the
scales to weigh the good and the bad
as they are to be — in your own Hfe
to come.'

The Vicar went from the stationmaster's,
where the hopeless cases were
elinor out their last breaths, to Doctor
Mayne's, where the complicated surgical
cases were domiciled, and from thereto
the Feather's Court hospital daily
sometimes twice. Yet no word of his
changed circumstances, his parentage,
his new name, had escaped him, even
to Griselda.

All personal matters, even in those
most wrapt up in self, seemed merged
in the general catastrophe. During these
days Hal, Griselda, Mabel, Hugh Blunt
were little else but comrades. Hush
Blunt had mentally resigned Griselda,

and, from his experience of the Romaynes
at this crisis, was inclined to
have less fear for her future. The
brother of that open-hearted generous
Mabel could not be actually a bad
fellow.

Lydia, Hal's elder and languid sister,
was in Scotland, staying with some
noble friends who rented a deer-forest.
Hal's brother was at school, and Gris-ella's
brothers, Tom and Harry, were
also away. Those four — Hal, Griselda,
Hugh, and Mabel, with Mervyn Bray
as an amiable but diffident fifth — shared
the burden of the sick men, talked
over the cases as their one joint interest
in life, hoped against hope, and
were cast down and had to be comforted
when one of the flickering life-flames
they were watching went out.

A week after the accident the dead
were buried in Crowsfoot churchyard.
Mr Vivian read the beautiful Burial
Service, amid the sobs of the mourners
who thronged the green peaceful little
spot.

Griselda and Mabel Romayne, escorted
by Hal, Hugh Blunt, and Mervyn Bray,
went amongst the mourners, trying to
comfort them. Griselda, Mabel, Hugh,
and Mervyn Bray were sufficiently composed
; but Hal, when he passed Mrs
Black's grave, and remembered the day
when he, as a young boy, stood there
and vowed fidelity to the quaint self-helpful
little motherless child, was overcome.


When the touching service was over,
he pleaded to Griselda to wait for him.
So Griselda stood bravely at the churchyard

gate, watching the mourners depart,
and then asked Mabel, as a favour,
to proceed to the vicarage, where she
was to have tea, and to wait for her.
And Hugh, in respect to her wishes,
offered his arm to the bright gentle girl,
telling Bray to follow. Griselda fancied
she would find Hal at her mother's
grave, and she was not wrong. He had
thrown himself upon the grass a few
yards away. It was a soft, sunny
autumn day. A robin was singing,
perched on a twig of the hedge close
by. The dead leaves lay among the
graves. It was not a day for happy
hopes or bright thoughts — rather for
humble faith and staunch, good resolves.

Hal rose as he saw her coming.

'Do you remember?' he asked, leading
her gently to the spot where, years

ago, they stood together. ' What would
she have thought of a calamity like
this? It would have broken her heart!'

'Oh no ! ' said Griselda, with sudden
fervour. ' She would have seen it in
the right light. She used to tell me,
when the death-bell tolled, that the gardener
of heaven had seen a plant here
fit to bloom above, and had transplanted
it. She said that none ever went who
were not fit to go.'

'No, that is just it,' said Hal. 'Oh,
Griselda, since that awful night I have
felt so bad — so worthless — yet I am no
worse than I was.' Then he went on,
pleading for himself, begging, entreating
her that their lives should be joined,
that he might grow pure and self-sacrificing
by and through her.

You know,' she softly said, ' that I

am willing. But your mother must
wish such a thing — ay, and tell my
father so — before there can be any real
talk of my being your wife.'

But, this granted, you would take
me, Griselda ? ' he asked, with more
spirit. 'You — beautiful, good — would
take what Death and the devil seem
to despise ? '

That is not like you,' said Griselda,
devotion — love — fervour in her great
violet eyes. ' But, Hal, you don't thrive
out of the sunshine! Oh, I thought
that long ago ; and I used to think
that perhaps my having been accustomed
to see trouble and anxiety and
worry of all sorts would make up in a
way for my want of beauty and family
and riches — for I could plan out my
life to stand between you and unpleasant

things. But what am I talking
about ? ' she cried, with a blush of
confusion.

You are talking like my beloved
wife, Griselda,' said Hal, placing her
hand on his arm. Then, silent, but
with a new sense of happiness, they
walked down the churchyard-path and
through the loch-gate together.

After that brief talk of they two
being made one, Hal said no more for
many days. He had determined that
the next conversation on the subject
of his marriage with Griselda should
be very different.

O Griselda became the wife of
one of the ' great matches ' of
the county. The first time
that Sir Hubert and My Lady called
at the vicarage to ask for Griselda as
their son's wife, they were met, much
to Lady Romayne's surprise, with a curt
refusal. Then came a stormy scene with
Hal. He rushed off to Crowsfoot, to find
Griselda and her father happy in their
new hopes, and no longer obdurate.

At Crowsfoot the Vicar and his
daughter were beloved ; so that the

opinion of the country round was that
Hal Romayne was not good enough
for that pure, beautiful young girl, who
seemed to live in an atmosphere of contented
peace, which she carried whither
she went.

Griselda's presence had seemed to
many like oil on the troubled waters
of their daily lives ; and, while feeling
that they would sorely miss her unconsciously
cheering and elevating influence,
the notion of ' fast Hal Romayne ' asher
husband was a slight shock.

Meanwhile, the idea of ' that good-looking
young Romayne, who might
have married anybody almost, going
and marrying a nobody — a governess !
No, well, some curate's daughter,' as
society put it, gave quite another sort
of shock to the titled dowagers and

eligible daughters, who amused themselves,
especially those who were likely
to be guests of Sir Hubert and Lady
Romayne, in planning how to bring the
interloper, Griselda, to discomfiture when
only they had the chance.

Of course Hal had carried his point.
His father and mother came to the
vicarage a second time, and asked
almost humbly for Griselda's hand.
This time the Vicar did not allow himself
the grim amusement of refusing her
ladyship, but was as amiable as if he
had forgotten all the wrongs and slights
endured by the orphan — the waif, John
Black, and had been the acknowledged
son of the great Professor Blackett and
in possession of a comfortable income
all his life.

Of course, one's knowing who he is,

and being the son of a celebrated man,
ready and able to settle a decent sum
upon his daughter, and all that, makes
a considerable difference,' Lady Romayne
acknowledged to her son, while trying
to ' look at the best side of things
And the man really seems more civilised
now that he knows who he is. It
must be very uncomfortable indeed not
to know who you are. Then, you see,
I will say Griselda managed that sensibly
— he is all right with his bishop.
The affair is not the same in any way.
Only one thing I must insist upon. We
must introduce the marriage to society
in a clerical light.'

It was of no use for Hal impatiently
to anathematise * society,' and to say he
wanted no society but Griselda's, and
chosen friends, who talked sense, et

caetera. Lady Romayne shook her head,
and said that, as she had yielded so
much, it would be unjust if she were
not allowed to arrange the wedding.

Hal, finding Griselda anxious to please
his mother in any way, acquiesced, but
with an ill grace.

They were married on Christmas Eve,
Griselda's birthday. Only a few were
at the church. The weather fell in with
Lady Romayne's plans. Snow lay on
the ground. The steeple caught a few
flakes, which fell rustling upon the ivy-clad
church wall as the bishop, who
had offered to marry Griselda, read the
Marriage Service in his well-pitched
sonorous voice.

Within, it was, as Lady Romayne
whispered to the bishop's wife, *an ideal
wedding.' The sun shone through the

great window, illumining the wreaths of
holly mingled with white flowers that
hung above the Communion-table and
just tenderly touching the bishop's
silvery hair before it fell upon the slim
figure of Griselda in her simple white
gown, with lilies upon her breast, — and
upon her light veil, which fell back.

It certainly is pretty,' whispered back
the bishop's wife. ' She looks so saintly
in that halo of sunshine. Like that
picture — the Christian Martyr — a girl
floating in the water, you know.'

Lady Romayne thought the word
martyr ' singularly inapplicable ; but she
only smiled sympathetically, for she
greatly counted upon this worthy lady's
help to launch Griselda upon ' society '
in a strong clerical light.

There was Dean Trevor, a dapper

priest, whose chapel in Belgravia was
thronged whenever he preached, assisting
the bishop and a neighbouring rector
to marry Griselda. The dean's sister
and the neighbouring rector's daughter
were two of the four bridesmaids — the
remaining two being Hal's sisters, Lydia
and Mabel. The four were in white
cashmere, trimmed with swansdown. But
it was the clergy and their wives that
Lady Romayne relied upon. She felt
that the John Blackett who stood there,
a noble figure, had never looked so well
as when he placed Griselda's hand in
Hal's— giving her away to her handsome
son. Lady Romayne shed just one tear
about Hal, who, with his handsome
face, somewhat pale, his lips compressed,
stood there in his splendid uniform —
being sacrificed,' as his mother thought.

VOL. III. D

The little congregation felt somehow
that this bridegroom and bride were
much in earnest. This was a marriage
rather than a wedding ; Griselda was
very serious. She dimly felt that there
were far more dangerous rocks ahead
than she had encountered in her maiden
life, hard though this had been.

And Hal ? Why was he to all
appearance more impressed than he had
been perhaps ever before ?

He had never loved Griselda better
than when she came to him at the altar,
leaning on her tall father's arm, followed
by her bridesmaids. He had given her
an elated, passionate glance as they
were marshalled before the bishop by
the old clerk, who had been interested
in the babe so strangely born in the
snow, and had little dreamt that the

old-fashioned, demure little child who
used to toddle so quaintly into church
and climb into her place in the vicarage
pew would ever be made a great lady
of thus.

Yes, Hal had never felt more tender,
more loving, than now. But, in the
middle of the service a sudden thought
or was it an indescribable sensation ?
chilled, startled him.

It was as if some other than himself
had repeated that solemn oath after the
good bishop — as if some mocking, derisive
voice had uttered the words — * to
have and to hold, for better for worse,
for richer for poorer, in sickness and
in health, to love and to cherish, till
death us do part.'

Death — till death!

Nevermore the old freedom — 

OF Million

more the acting upon impulses as they
arose — always another self to think of —
and although that self was Griselda —

Good heavens ! I never realised it ! '
he thought. Little wonder that he was
so distrait, as he led Griselda into the
vestry, that, when he was called upon to
sign the register, he stood, bewildered,
pen in hand — wondering what this meant.

Griselda, receiving her congratulations,
and trying not to hear Lady Romayne's
asides — ' Such a sweet, good child ! Weare
so thankful Hal will have such a
wife,' et caetera — saw a look on Hal's
face she had never seen before.

To her the marriage service had simply
meant blessing upon and grace to fulfil
all her resolutions, since she knew she
was to marry the man she loved. Her
experience of life had taught her to expect

but little joy, and that — marred. She
watched Hal anxiously. She was anxious
for him. Then she caught Hugh
Blunt's eyes gazing on her with an indescribable
expression.

She did not stop to wonder what Hugh's
expression meant. She went to him.

Could you hasten our carriage, do you
think .^' she said pleadingly. 'I shall be
glad to get away, you know, and my
husband too.'

Your carriage shall be here in half
a minute,' said Hugh, seizing his hat
and going out, as he went through the
church thinking ' Good heavens ! what a
beginning ! '

He had watched Hal's emotion, and
had — such keenness of perception seemed
to have formed out of his great love for
Griselda — had almost read his thoughts.

Let us go, Hal said Griselda to her
pale young husband, who looked bewildered.
' The carriage is there. I shall
be so glad to be out of the bustle, you
know.'

Here Hugh Blunt returned, announced
that the bride and bridegroom's carriage
waited, then gave a hint aside to Hal to
offer his arm to his wife.

Many brides would have been overwhelmed
by such a bridegroom. But
Griselda took his arm smilingly, went
down the aisle with happy glances right
and left, nodded to the village folk hurrahing
outside, and bowed and smiled till
the carriage was fairly out of Crowsfoot
parish.

Then she threw up her veil and took
her husband's hand.

Darling,' she said, ' I see what it is —

you did not count the cost ! You have
been more generous than just in your
love for me ! But do not think I will bea
burden to you. It will not be ordinary
husband and wife with us ! Do you think
I shall interfere with you ? I am yours.
I will obey you — to the death — unless
conscience forbids me.'

She looked so lovely, so faithful ! Hal
took her in his arms, and kissed her
passionately — he hardly knew his own
feelings. They seemed all bitter remorse
and wild love — yet those meaning words
' till death ' — rang in his ears.

Griselda,' he said, almost fiercely, ' you
are too good for me, and I know it now
— too late, too late ! 1 never realised ;
here I have vowed myself till death —
death — how am I to keep myself at that
that pitch of perfection ? Why, I

should have laughed at my giving my
word to Heaven like that to scorn, till
I — till I — knew we were to be man and
wife ! ' he went on, with a crimson blush.
Yet I have sworn, and I feel wretched,
for I seem to be at your mercy, and how
can I change so utterly. Who — who —
will help me ? '

I will,' said Griselda, with a lovely
glance of her sweet eyes. ' Hal — my
husband ; ' she nestled close to her strange
bridegroom as if he had been the least
selfish and most chivalrous being — ' don't
fear! If you will come tome, I will do
anything, anything — that is right.'

Hal kissed her forehead.

Oh, if only you were not so pure, so
good, that it seems a sacrilege, almost,
to take you into the world ! ' he said. ' I
fancy it is my feeling about your unworldliness

which overwhelms me he went on.
Still, you can go into the world, through
the world, and remain unspotted, my
adored,' he said, raising the corner of her
veil and kissing it. ' My love,' somehow
he could not bring himself to say ' my
wife, I am glad we chose Paris for our
honeymoon. I fancy Parisian life may
bring our tastes more together.'

Then he described the life of visitors
to the continental capital, till they drove
into the park of Feather's Court, under
the triumphal evergreen arch, and through
the snowy slopes where tenants and
villagers cheered and waved handkerchiefs
; then there was no more serious
talk. For there were the Feather's Court
lacqueys in new gay liveries and glistening
silk stockings, opening the great door of
the white mansion, and maids, with

favours in their pretty high caps, peeping
from among the banks of plants in the
hall. Feather's Court looked its best today,
the white stone terraces decorated
with evergreens in green pots — flags
waving from Venetian masts erected on
the slopes in the park. The turf was
all green and white patches — the snow
quickly melting under the bright winter
morning sun.

Griselda smiled and nodded to the
assembled servants, as she blushingly
ascended the wide staircase leading to
the drawing-rooms, on her husband's
arm.

It seems so unreal,' she said to him
Just like when you stepped down into-the
orchard in your green velvet suit all
those years ago.'

She looked with a certain awe at the

magnificent staircase hung with great
pictures — old sea-fights, solemn-looking
portraits of men in armour, and grandly-dressed
women with long taper fingers
and slim waists. How would she ever
live here and be a great lady ?

This item in her marriage-bond had
not occurred to her.

Hal thought she looked lovely, and
felt pacified as they entered the drawing-room,
where there were huge fires, and
the warm atmosphere was impregnated
with the odours of stephanotis and other
white waxen hot-house blooms in the vases.

Come, and let us have a look at you,
before all these nuisances arrive,' he said,
drawing her before one of the long mirrors,
Bother ! If there are not two carriages —
the bridesmaids and the men, of course, racing
along the drive — do you see ? It would

serve them right if the horses went down.
Look, Griselda ! ' he went on, his arm
around her, as they stood before the glass.
Griselda glanced timidly at the reflection
of her handsome husband. She seemed to
herself to look absolutely insignificant by
his side.

I don't like you so well in your uniform,
Hal,' she said. ' I liked your grey
suit ; I remember how I used to put my
cheek against your arm.'

She sighed. He took her in his arms
and kissed her, and had hardly settled the
folds of her veil before the bridesmaids
came in, followed by Hugh Blunt and
Mervyn Bray ; a staid major — the only
military friend Hal chose to invite to the
clerical wedding — and — the young Dean
Trevor, who was enchanted with the bride.

Upon my word, you are to be congratulated,

my boy,' he said to Hal, while
the bridesmaids bravely smothered those
little jealousies bridesmaids will feel, and
hovered prettily about the bride ; ' there is
something so Una-like about Mrs Romayne.
Don't start ' — he laid his hand
on Hal's arm. ' I suppose I am lucky
enough to be the first to call the bride by
her married name ? Yes ! Do you know
that, while assisting our good bishop, I
could not help feeling as if this were the
profession of a nun, rather than the joining
of a man and woman in the bonds of matrimony
? If I am not utterly wrong, there
is something peculiarly saintly about Mrs
Romayne, Hal. By the way, the bishop
and Lady Romayne wish me to propose
your healths — the bishop hates speeches.
And you know, though I am not old, so to
say ' — he ran his fingers through his prematurely

grey hair with a satisfied smile
I remember you all since I can remember
anything.'

Propose everybody all in a lump —
propose any mortal thing,' said Hal, who
was irritably fidgeting with his uniform ;
only, dean, don't propose that my wife is
a saint. I don't want to be laughed at ; '
and he walked away.

The dean looked after him with a
strange expression of pity. Then he shook
his head, and stood up smilingly as the
rest of the wedding-party came in.

Lady Romayne, looking handsome in
her lilac satin and purple velvet, went
about presiding and grouping her guests,
and settling everything like a fashionable
Juno. She had heard someone say that
Griselda ought to be painted by the
great portrait-painter, Rogers. And another

— Lady Romayne forgot whom ;
but, whoever it might be, he or she was a
remarkably sensible and far-seeing person
had come to her and said. ' Oh, Lady
Romayne, how L envy your privilege of
presenting your beautiful daughter-in-law !
She must be the belle of next season,'
et cetera, et ccEfei^a. Lady Romayne's
clerical wedding promised to be a success.

She was already so triumphant that
she had failed to notice the swelling of
that vein on Hal's forehead — which meant
that Hal was in what his sisters called
one of his nasty tempers.' So, after
settling her nests for the few minutes'
wait before the breakfast, she went to
him full of confidence, and said, —

Oh, my dear boy, we are so fortunate !
The dear dean will drive us one of his eloquent
speeches. Of coarse it will be reported

in the newspapers. All the dean
says is reported — I don't know how or
why ; but it is so. Then Griselda — she is
really quite a success ! Every one thinks-her
so like a saint.'

Lady Romayne stopped short. Hal had
muttered something between his teeth that
she had frequently heard him mutter, and
which was like the low preliminary growl
of a coming thunderstorm.

Look here, mother ! ' he said, with the
old threatening gleam in his eyes. ' I've
always heard a man's wedding-day is
the worst in his life ; don't you help to-prove
the saying in my case.' And he
turned away and began to talk to his
former tutor, now a middle-aged clergyman
in possession of a fruitful vine and
many olive branches, who had begun
smiling — nervously and doubtfully, — when.

he arrived, and was still smiling — to conceal
how his doubts had already grown.
Poor Mr Withers ! He had seen race
in his former pupil's face, and made a
desperate effort to say something pleasant.
He talked of the bride's sweetness and
goodness, of how thankful he was for
Hal that he had been directed in his
choice of a wife.

You will no longer be tormented by
your old wild fancies, my dear Mr Romayne,'
he said, dropping the familiar
Hal,' now that this tempestuous Mr
Romayne had arrived at the dignity of
being a married man. * If you could have
seen the grief and affection of the Crows-foot
parishioners when Mrs Romayne drove
away! It was like the old tales of the
people clinging to a departing saint.'

Beg your pardon, Withers ; I am

VOL. HI. E

wanted.' Hal rushed off. ' If they would
only call her a she-deva, I believe I should
prefer it,' he said, as he went to his wife,
who was not looking after him, but was
seated on an ottoman, calmly conversing,
as if she had grown there to talk and be
talked to.

John Blackett was standing near to his
child. He tried not to look depressed for
her sake. But of late she had seemed so
to supply her mother's place — it was very
hard, this parting. He, too, began to
realise what this marriage meant for him
for her — for Hal.

We must not have you gloomy, Mr
Blackett,' said Lady Romayne, in a high
contralto voice, pitched that all might
hear. ' Your dear daughter will soon return.
We — indeed, society cannot spare
her. Ah, if only her distinguished grandfather,

the famous professor, could have
lived to be here to-day ! '

It was well that breakfast was announced,
and that Lady Romayne, who
had got through the programme of her
preprandlal behaviour in the drawing-room
— always somewhat of a difficult
time at weddings— did not, as she stood
and fanned herself, waiting to follow her
guests, see the face of John Blackett, of
the bride's father.

Almost a passion of wrath arose within
him at this coarse mention of the facts of
his life most sacred to him. He — who
had hardly schooled himself yet to think
of the father who turned his back upo
him when he was born, that father who
had persistently shunned him and disclaimed
him, and had salved his conscience
hy post-mortem gifts — to have his parentage

flung vulgarly In his face by his old
enemy, Lady Romayne !

He calmed himself for Griselda's sake ;
so did Hal, as far as he could. So the
wedding-banquet went off to Lady Romayne's
satisfaction.

The white tables, with the gold plate
and glass centre-piece, all graceful forms
showed well against the polished walls
Griselda cut her cake with perfect composure,
and was only amused when a huge
piece of hard sugar tumbled Into her lap.
It was all a fairy tale — a bright dream to
her. To-morrow, she thought, with a
saddened smile, she might awake to a
long life of difficulties. At least to-day
she might be as happy as she pleased !

The dean's speech put the finishing
touch to Lady Romayne's content. It
was brief and graceful. He began by a

short history of his acquaintance with
Hal, putting his best points in the most
favourable light. He said truthfully that
the bridegroom had that gift of all gifts,
a good heart. His friend once, you were
his friend always. And he even believed,
personally, that a friend under a cloud
was dearer to Henry Romayne than the
friend who was basking in the hot sunshine
of success. He could speak from
personal experience. For, although he
had seen comparatively little of Henry
Romayne since he himself had been a
successful man — therefore a busy man,
whose real friends made a point of respecting
the value of his time — there had
been years, not so very long ago, when,
but for to-day's bridegroom and his timely
help, he might have died in a miserable
lodeinof for want of actual warmth and

food. No doubt many could tell a similar
tale, with Henry Romayne as its hero,
and would, if they only knew, say, to-day,
as heartily as he did — God bless him [
Not only that ; but these would join him
in congratulations at having so soon met
with so sweet a lady as the bride, as his
companion and helpmeet through life.
None, after a glance at Mrs Henry Romayne,
could but feel that in this cold, hard
world her husband had found a blossom
in the snow. Of course all present knew
how this lovely lady, whose health on this
her marriage-day it was his privilege to
propose, had bloomed in the snow one
Christmas-eve ; not a bright Christmas-eve
like this, but in the midst of a cruel
hurricane, a fearful storm. And no doubt
that many who were present would draw
a curious parallel, and would scarcely wonder

that a babe, born In a stable, although
without visible protecting angels, and born
at this holy time, might be destined to be
so gentle, so patient, that the almost worshipping
affection of her father's parishioners
which he had seen to-day would bea
matter of course. He concluded by an
allusion to the beautiful name of Griselda,
and mentioned his confident hope that in
no single instance would this Griselda's
fate be like her celebrated namesake's, so
quaintly told by the father of English
poetry. No ; he might say that, just as
Henry Romayne had been so fortunate
as to find a rare blossom — say, the Edel-
weiss — on his upward path of manly life, so
he would wear it upon his heart till death,
to find it again in the gardens of Paradise.
Although successful, Dean Trevor had
made the wedding party feel much as if

they had returned to church. However,
the bridesmaids and Lady Romayne soon
retired to help Griselda dress for her
journey ; and there were the chirps of
admiration over the traveling dress, which
was of shaded grey velvet trimmed with
white fur.

'It has been perfect!' said Lady Romayne,
as she warmly embraced her
Edelweiss,' as she intended to nickname
her daughter-in-law. 'Simply perfect!
Mind, love, you must come back much
sooner than Hal intends to. You must
assert yourself. You must not put up
with his tempers. You must begin as you
mean to go on. See how I manage Sir
Hubert! It is your duty to manage Hal
imitate me.'

Don't frighten her, mother,' said Lydia
compassionately.

When you have had enough of his
tempers you come home to us. Union is
strength,' said Mabel, who was busily
buttoning Griselda's gloves, while the
other bridesmaids were actively collecting
the satin slippers to be thrown after the
happy pair.

Meanwhile Hal was storming at his
valet in the gun-room, where several
items of luggage had been placed pro
tern, Hugh Blunt heard ; and, biting his
lips as he remembered that this man was
now lord and master of the girl whom he
believed to be the one and only love of
his life, he went into the gun-room to see
if he could coax Mr Romayne into a less
irritable frame of mind.

Oh, it is you, lucky fellow, come to
gloat over me, plunged into all this
bother!' said Hal, viciously kicking at a

portmanteau. ' Go. No, thanks ; you
can't help me. Who can help a man
who has made a fool of himselfe'

The passionate outburst had barely
left his lips before he turned, and saw
Griselda.

Hugh Blunt paled, and stepped aside.
What he felt he could not have told ; it
was indescribable.

Hal flushed to the roots of his hair
when he saw his young wife. Had she
overheard '^. Had she ' thought anything
? ' Oh no ! Impossible ; she looked
cheerful, bright, in her slate - coloured
velvets and white furs, like a sunshiny
winter landscape.

But she had heard ; his speech had
seemed to stab her heart. Only she used
her gift of self-command. She had not
to be warned by Lady Romayne and her

sisters-in-law of what she might expect.
One day, not very long ago, she had told
herself that she knew Hal better than he
knew himself.

Good-bye,' she said, turning to Hugh
Blunt, with her gloved hand outstretched.

What was it — the look in her eyes —
that told him she knew, or suspected, the
life she was boldly embarking upon .^
1 He could not tell. But added to his old
love for her came a great respect, a wonder
at one so weak, who could be so strong.

Then came the embracing and parting
words, and the waving of handkerchiefs,
as the carriage with the four greys drove
off. One of the leaders shied at a satin
slipper that flew upon his nose, but the
bride and bridegroom soon vanished from
view behind the great trees in the snowy
park, to meet their fate.

T was not an ordinary honeymoon.


Griselda saw that Hal was
already repenting his coolness and irritability.
She had silently forgiven him
in advance. They had barely driven out
of the park, the white turrets of Feather's
Court were still in sight, when she
clasped one of his hands in both hers,
and said, —

Oh, Hal, you are good to me — to leave
all this, and take me, such a poor companion!
I have crossed the sea, but never

stayed near It, And I have so longed,
so dreamed of the great, green, surging
water, and the sense of being cut off
from foreign nations by those roaring
waves — it seems impossible that in a
few hours I shall be there.'

And tossing about on those roaring
waves,' said Hal, — recovering himself ashe
thought, ' She can't have overheard
that speech of mine.' — ' For we must cross
to-nisfht. I can't stand those English
watering-places.'

However, when they reached Dover,

Griselda's innocent delight at the towers

)

ing cliffs crowned by the old castle, with
the great waves foaming as they rolled
in upon the beach, made Hal change his
mind. They stayed at Dover two. three
days — bright winter days, which were
landmarks in Griselda's life. It hardly

seemed like Christmas Day, dining alone
in the half-empty hotel. But their host
and the servants made much of them,
and Hal's state of mind was marvellous
to himself.

Wonders will never cease he thought
to himself, as he and Griselda fought
their way against a brisk sea-breeze,
laughing, and battling with the wind,
like two children. 'I to be amused, to
be made happy by this sort of thing !
Griselda is a witch.'

She was intensely devoted all through
that short winter day. But, during their
sea-side rambling, fresh visitors had arrived
at the hotel ; to his dismay, he
read the names of General and Lady
Hermione Grayburgh on piles of luggage
that were being carried into the
hall.

Griselda ran upstairs quickly ; the wind
had toasted her hair, she felt untidy,
and on the first landing knocked up
against a tall lady in brown velvet, who
abashed her with a surprised glance
from a pair of superb black eyes. If —
as Griselda went on to her room, where
her new maid had been expecting her,
and had a warm gown and slippers ready
she could have guessed how that
haughty dame would make her suffer,
even that very day !

For Hal had been petted and spoiled
by Lady Hermione, General Grayburgh's
young and beautiful wife. He had been
always ' hanging about the house ' till
lately. And since then Lady Hermione
had drooped somewhat, and on Hal's
marriage day her physician had told the
General that her ladyship required change

of scene immediately, and he must really
think of interior abroad.

All Hal's good humour fled at the
sight of those names. ' The question is
what to do ? ' he thought, as he went
into the empty billiard-room and paced
about, gazing absently at the maps, at
the railway guides, at the stands of cues.
Can't start to-night in this beastly gale.
Besides, there is something cowardly in
flying from her. She can't say anything
against me. No ; the best thing is to
stay and face it out. Surely I have a
right to marry when and how I please,
just the same as any other fellow ! '

So he went to Griselda, dio was sitting
before her fire in her blue wrapper,
while Marshall, the maid, was brushing
all her long, fair hair, and asked her to
dress and go into their draw-ing-room.

Some people I know are here,' he
said nonchalantly, — ' General and Lady
Hermlone Grayburgh. I must call in
and see them, and they will return the
visit, I suppose.'

Griselda assured him she would be
ready ; and he went off and called
upon the General and his wife — a
visit of mockery, he felt, but necessary ;
and he and Lady Hermione laughed and
chatted, and the General tried to make
some ponderous jokes ; then the three
adjourned to Hal's apartments, where
Griselda met them at the drawing-room
door, and welcomed her husband's friends
with a gentle dignity which made Lady
Hermione hate her with a cold, deadly
hate there and then.

Lady Hermione saw a girl dressed asa
young matron, in an exquisite costume

VOL. TIL F

Lady Romayne had ordered specially for
Griselda from Paris. This was a rich,
green satin polonaise embroidered with
sprigs of jasmine, the prettiest of striped
green and white silk.

Perfect taste ! ' savagely thought the
friend that had liked Hal Romayne not
wisely, but too well. Then her eyes
travelled upward to the fair oval face,
with its gentle dignified expression, but
with a certain anxiety in the lovely
eyes.

Some little school girl ! ' she thought,
with a rush of satisfaction at the thought
that at least she was superior to Hal's
wife. ' Some entanglement — some freak,
no doubt ! Poor Hal ! '

She held out her hand and shook
Griselda's with an affection of warmth.
Then she turned her languid dark eyes

upon Hal, and, with a little silvery laugh,
said, —

I don't think I was ever so surprised
in my life ! To think of the charming
little girl I ran up against in the passage
this morning being the wife of my old
friend Hal ! It seems incredible. Do
you know, Mrs Romayne, I looked after
you with envy, thinking, ' Ah, youth on
the prow, pleasure at the helm ! There
goes a child who is not weary and heartsick,
because she does not know the
world. The Dead Sea apples and the
bitter dregs are to come. Ah, Hal, you
have a heavy responsibility ! Who would
have thought that you, who have lived
through so many hot noons of life, would
dream of stealing a flower fresh with
mornings dew ? '

She had assumed a graceful, half-tired

attitude on a catiseuse near the uncomfortable
elbow-chair on which Griselda
had somewhat stiffly seated herself.
Griselda gazed on this beautiful lady,
who spoke with such ease and grace
that her speech sounded like Greek
verse — with dismay. Was this being,
who reminded her of a picture on a
Bordeaux plum-box Hugh Blunt had
given her one Christmas, an Oriental
beauty reclining on a divan, some bird
with a long chain gracefully perched on
her wrist, — a specimen of the women
Hal had known — whom she was to supplant
?

The old General, who liked pretty
young girls, luckily came to the rescue.
He did not quite understand his wife —
never had. But he knew when her
sweetly-modulated voice meant mischief

for then she spoke more slowly, more
like a well-practised chime of bells. And
he did not see why my lady should flout
that pretty young bride. So he got up
and stamped about a bit ; then, getting
rather red in the face, he slapped Romayne
on the back.

I tell you what, my boy,' he said in
his blunt way, ' I needn't to think much
of you when you were hanging about at
my lady's kettledrums ; I set you down
with the rest of the dawdle. But, 'pon
my honour, I see you're a man of sense,
and the very first time I can do-ou
and your young madam a service, I'll doit
— by Jove, I wall ! Now you two come
and dine with us to-night, and talk it
over — eh, my lady .^ '

My lady,' whose eyes had met Hal's
with an old look which appealed, ' See

how I am unappreciated by this savage ! '
was languidly charmed. She thought of
a certain toilette she had, and of how
fortunate it was that she had ordered a
Broadsword to be sent into their rooms
she had played more since she had
lost Hal as she called it.

I have played so much of your
favourite music since you cut us she
said to him with a meaning glance.
And I made a bargain with the General
that I should find a piano wherever we
stayed. Of course you play, Mrs Romayne
? '

The oro^an — a little said Griselda
with a pang. This was worse and
worse. As she went to the door and
watched Lady Hermione gliding gracefully
along the corridor, Hal bending
over her, and the white-haired General,

with his gold-headed stick, stumping
along in the rear, she remembered a
saying which struck her very much —
was it Hugh Blunt's ? — ' Fighting itself
is of no good without an intimate knowledge
of the foe.'

And I ' — she stopped short, dismayed
' oh, what will come of it all ? ' thought
poor Griselda.

RISELDA stood in the hotel
drawing-room, gazing blankly
at the huo^e conventional furniture.
All — from the glittering chandeliers
pendant from the heavy ceiling to
the handsomely decorated walls, with a
few well-known prints hanging here and
there, seemed so desolate — so unhomelike.
The risings ease shrieked and howled without
; the big windows, well-secured as
seaside palatial hotel-windows usually are,
attempted a faint rattle. The coal-fire
in the big steel grate, which had burnt

low, shivered and collapsed, while a
gust of smoke blew across the fire-guard
into the room. Absently twisting her
wedding - ring and the pearl circlet
Hal had given her as ' keeper,' she
vaguely felt that the even flow of the
honeymoon had been checked since this
meeting with the kindly old General and
his beautiful young wife, Lady Hermione.
Those dark eyes — those pencilled brows !
Griselda had seen the eloquent glance,
half-sad, half-sympathetic, of those dark
orbs when they were fixed upon Hal.
Did every woman, would every woman —
look at her husband like that ? ' They
must have been great, great friends,'
Griselda thought, looking vaguely, with
a new pain, longing, fear of she knew
not what, at the prints on the walls —
Against the Tide,' a young couple ina

boat, who had evidently had a disagreeable
discussion and were struggling
up-stream, and ' With the Tide,' where
all, the lovers and their surroundings,
seemed sunshine and peace. Then she
caught sight of her travelling-desk, her
father's gift.

Hal will stop some time at their rooms,
I daresay,' she thought, with a sinking
heart. ' I will write to father.'

She opened the desk. In the bustle of
the wedding and the packing, Griselda
had had no time to unlock and examine
John Blackett's wedding-gift to his
daughter. As she looked over the desk
now, she was deeply touched to find that
all her little tastes as a scribe were not
only known to, but had been carefully
remembered by, her father. The pens
she had found the readiest, the writing-paper,

most of the materials she had
used In preference as his amanuensis,
were there to hand, and — that which she
seized almost with eager passion — a letter,
the superscription ' For Griselda.'

She tore It open with trembling fingers.
What would be his parting counsel
? Her father had said but little to
her that wedding-morn, a few days back,
which already seemed weeks — no — months

Griselda,' John Blackett had written
I wonder when you will find this ? Not
in your happiest moments, my child, I
expect. Whenever it may be, think first
that, although separated from your father,
to whom you are naturally the dearest on
earth, that earthly separation is a mere
term ; it Is actually but a waiting for our

near meeting. I am here, ready, when
you want me. Now a few words about
your present Hfe. I did not wish to
croak, like an old raven, when you were
on the threshold of your young happiness.
And pray do not take this as a croak
But I must warn you of that which Is
most young married people's stumbling-block
— the expecting too much from each
other. To live at a high pitch of any
sort Is difficult, and, In point of fact, unnatural.
Do not fancy that a yawn ora
short silence means bore, or the first
symptom of a man's being tired of his
wife. Only a man dislikes a chain as
much as that nobler animal, the dog. —
Ever your father, John Blackett.'

Griselda almost smiled. How like her
father, as he had been, since his life-burdens

had been lifted from his weary
shoulders !

She seized a sheet of note-paper and
wrote —

Father, — It is useless to add anything
to the word which means the
nearest, holiest tie, is it not ? I have
just found your dear letter. I will not
say whether it came at a moment of
difficulty ; but it certainly strengthened
me and reminded me of — '

My duty,' she would have written.
But the pen slipped from her fingers.

Hal had kicked open the door, which
was ajar, and stood there, looking disgustedly
at the smoke which was gracefully
floating in grey clouds just below
the ceiling.

What the deuce do they mean by this
sort of thing?' he said, with suppressed
anger. * Fire out too ! Why didn't you
ring ? ' Then he rang, and going to the
window, muttered something barely audible,
which sent the blood to Griselda's
cheeks, about ' unlucky devil,' etc.

What do you mean by this ? ' he thundered
at the waiter who had flown in
answer to No. 20's noisy summons. ' Putting
me into a room poisoned with smoke !
Bring me my bill and serve luncheon at
once. I cross by the next boat."

The startled waiter expostulated, murmuring
something about ' blowing o^reat
guns ' and ' cone being hoisted.'

Do what I say, d'ye hear ? And send
my valet.'

The waiter flew.

See your maid, my dear, tell her to

pack, and change to your travelling-gown
at once, will you ? '

The thin veil of assumed tenderness
hurt Griselda more than if he had stormed
at her.

But — Hal — I thought — those people —
asked us to dinner — and you accepted — '

Hal, strolling about the room, his hands in
his pockets, laughed. It was a nasty laugh.
It meant much, and Griselda winced.

My dearest child, you will, of course,
have to write an excuse. You cannot
possibly go into society till you have
seen something of the world and have
had a little training from my mother. I
love your simplicity, dear,' he added more
kindly. ' Of course, you don't understand
; but you will by-and-by. Come
you are writing — just put that aside
and write a note I will dictate to you.'

Griselda obediently laid aside the half-covered
sheet, and began — according to
Hal's dictation —

Dear Lady Hermione — '

She looked up. It seemed rather
strange to address the regal lady of the
almond eyes thus ; but of course Hal
knew, so it must be all right.

Write your own bold manuscript hand,
said Hal. Then he dictated, ' I am so
sorry, but I have just received a telegram
from my father.'

Griselda glanced up. * Oh, Hal,' she
said, 'have you had one?'

Hal stamped his foot impatiently. This
was too silly !

Of course not,' he said. ' Don't you
understand ? I have been racking my
brains how to get off without offending
the General and Lady Hermione, and

that is the only excuse I could possibly
think of;

But it is not true. I will write anything
you like that is true ; but not a lie, Hal.'

Griselda ! ' — Hal checked an unkind
speech ; but he felt choked with rage.

The beautiful Lady Hermione, who, in
days not so very long ago, had played
upon his sentiments, his whole nature, asa
consummate artist plays upon an intricate
musical instrument, had asserted
her supremacy, had overturned the simple,
almost childish joys of these first
days of dual solitude with his girlish wife.
He had felt, as Lady Hermione clasped
his hand and glanced one of her old
glances straight into his eyes, that his
safety was in flight — not only his safety,
but his loyalty to Griselda. It enraged
him that Griselda should be an obstacle,

VOL. III. G

when he was trying his best for her
sake.

*Then, if your conscience is so extremely
sensitive,' he said, in a strange
constrained voice, ' you must really find
your own excuses. What is that ? '

He saw Mr Blackett's letter lying half-open
on the table, and would have seized
it ; but Griselda put her hand firmly down
upon the paper.

That is a letter from my father,' she
said ; ' I found it in the desk — here.'

I thought there should be no secrets
between husband and wife.'

Hal's anger was at its height. But,
being at a white heat, he seemed calm.

I do not know whether he intended
anyone else to read it,' pleaded Griselda,
looking earnestly at her husband.

Curious, for a clergyman, who is supposed

to consider man and wife as
one ! '

Read my reply,' said Griselda eagerly.

Hal took the sheet, and, as he read,
an ugly sneer spread itself about his
mobile mouth.

Thank you,' he said drily. ' I compliment
you on your duplicity either to
myself or to your father. Yesterday, I
was your best beloved, according to your
own saying. To-day, because, as I am
forced to believe, you are meanly jealous
of one of the queens of society, the reason
being that I paid her the ordinary attentions
she is accustomed to, — your father
is — what ? ' — he consulted the note.
Pah ! Romantic stuff! Tear it up! And
please tear up that you began to Lady
Hermione. I will explain matters myself.'

Here his valet, successor to poor Chancel,

who was killed in the eventful railway
accident, came in ; but Hal left
Griselda, giving his orders as he went
towards Lady Hermione's rooms.

He found her reclining in a shady
corner. She started as he came in. All
her old passion had rushed back — she had
been dreaming of bygone happy hours
never to return. Her eyes were tearful.

The General is — in his room she
stammered.

He was softened by her emotion. She
looked so gentle, so womanly ; and Hal's
excitement led him to feel an atmosphere
of love about this siren, who had formerly
held him in chains, and who had behaved, he
thought, at this crisis, with great gentleness
and magnanimity to her escaped captive.

I wanted to speak to you,' he said
falteringly, with some new emotion he

hardly understood. ' May I — may I sit
by you, as in the old ' — he paused and
sighed — ' the old days ? '

She looked at him almost fearfully.
Then she bowed her head, and said,
Yes ' — the sort of ' yes ' which is given
to some great, some vital question, rather
than the careless ' yes ' of ordinary life.

He sat down on a basket-chair by her
sofa. There was a bowl of hot-house
blooms on a tiny table beside him, a tiger-skin
at his feet. Lady Hermione travelled
with accessories — indispensable accessories,
as she considered them. Hal felt
the difference between this room and his
own — one so well arranged, so refined, the
other bare, cold, smoky — acutely. ' I have
come,' he began. Then he hesitated, and
the blood rushed to his forehead. He
leaned forward, clasping his hands, dumb.

You have come ! ' gently repeated
Lady Hermlone.

To tell you that I have changed my
plans. I shall cross this afternoon.' One
moment's silence.

In this gale ?' asked Lady Hermione ;
and her voice trembled. She was bitterly
disappointed. She believed that to-night
she might have gone far to re-establish
the old friendship.

Can you not understand that it is
better for me ? '

In his new anger with Griselda he spoke
almost with passion to this old love, who,
although almost his superior in worldly
position, and most certainly far above him
in intellect, as women's intellects go, had
never 'defied' him, as he chose to think
his young wife had done on the subject
of her father's letter.

'As you will. You know, Hal, I have
always thought you have acted for the
best. But, will you leave me, now, at
once ? ' she went on, suddenly rislno- from
her sofa, and holding out her delicate
white hands with an imploring gaze.
For Heaven's sake, go ! '

Hal rose, agitated. What ? There
were great tears in those large dark eyes
that he had seen look so coldly upon the
world, so scornfully upon gay crowds of
adulators, so adoring into his own.

For a few seconds they looked steadily
at each other ; and the past, that delirium
of Hal's, when he gave rein to impulse,
and had recklessly followed the promptings
of the moment — when he hung about
Lady Hermione, and no day passed without
that delicious talk, and those half-confidences,
half-suggestions, and whole

honos silences which mean more than words
or looks — the memory of those days passed
through the minds of both, as they saw a
procession of the thoughts, words, actions,
and Incidents of their lives review themselves
rapidly before those who are near
unto death.

Lady Hermione was not a bad woman,
and her affection for Hal had been the
strongest sentiment of her life. And
Hal ? Fiercely, bitterly he remembered
his doubts, his sudden terror, when he
had realised that he was bound to gentle,
innocent Griselda for life. Unthinking,
he had drifted to his fate, and here he
suddenly found himself, on one side Scylla,
on the other Charybdis.

Good-bye,' he said — merely the one
word ; but the anguish in his tone was
balm to Lady Hermione's disappointment.

Do be happy ! ' she earnestly said.
If I only know you are happy, my dear
boy, I do not care what becomes of
me!'

Happy ! ' said Hal, dropping her
hands ; and, with head bent, walking
respectfully from her presence, as if she
were a princess. Formerly, when he was
the spoilt darling, coming in and going
out of the ' gem of a town residence ' in
Mayfair when and how he pleased, he had
given himself airs there as he did in his
home, nettling Lady Hermione somewhat,
although she did not choose to show it.
Now she had become unattainable, an
impossibility — therefore, to Hal, inexpressibly
desirable.

Happy ! ' he savagely repeated to himself
with a Byronic bitterness as he went
downstairs to calm himself with a cigar.

What evil chance brought me to Griselda
that day at Cologne, again in London,
again after that accident ! What a fate for
us both — utterly unsuited to each other !
Poor child, poor child ! '

While Lady Hermione had stood
motionless where Hal had left her.

I used to think him gloriously handsome,'
she mused ; but never, never have
I imagined him as now — the ideal of a
fallen angel or Manfred. Well, I have
nothing to blame myself for ! '

She went to the great mirror over the
mantelpiece and gazed at her own beauty.
In the light of the great fire — the sky was
darkening with folds of dismal clouds, and
the flames half lit the room — she saw that,
If the freshness of youth were no longer
there, there was a grander, more imposing
splendour about her pathetic face and

moulded figure, which might be compared
to Griselda's peaceful loveliness as a
storm in a pine-forest, with lurid gleams
between the thunder-shower, to a lily-pond
in green fields under a smiling
spring sky.

Perhaps,' she thought. Then, after
one more glance, a triumphant expression
brightened her eyes.

Not perhaps,' she thought, remembering
some news her husband. General
Grayburgh, had read to her that very
morning from the leading daily paper.
Let them go honeymooning like little
Cupids among the roses — poor child,
should I grudge her her day ? He
has caused her trouble enough, I
know ! But it will be soon over. And
then — '

She stepped across the room and opened

the window. This new idea oppressed
her. She wanted air, light.

Then,' she went on to herself, gazing
out on the green, angry sea — * then my
turn will come ! I think I can afford to
wait.'

OW little did Griselda — as she
struggled on board the packet
bound for Calais, chilled, depressed,
for her three days' bridegroom
had been, at the best, morose, since the
unfortunate meeting with his old friends —
think how and by what she would be
befriended !

The afternoon sky was leaden, the sea a
dark blackish green, which, as the waves
seemed as if they had suddenly begun
civil war and were fighting furiously
among themselves, had an ominous deadly
look, like the green of some poisonous

plants. The wind seemed to blow from
all quarters at once, not as one wind, but
many. There was the great sea-breeze,
which seemed to rush with a gigantic rush
steadily through and beside and below and
above every obstruction, and sweep landwards
with a calm contempt of earth.
But there were also wandering gusts that
shrieked and walled on their own account,
and Icy little breezes that went about
rapidly, biting the nerves and hissing into
the ears like air-snakes, while they froze
fingers, toes, and crept under wraps to
stab where and how they could.

Roar, rage on the sea, screech, whistle
In the sky — no wonder the rattling and
shouting, as the heaving little black packet
was loaded by the struggling porters and
sailors as best they could, was lost in the
noise of the hurricane ! The captain,

whose hoarse shouts from the paddle-box
where he stood were barely heard, stared
to see an English gentleman with a
delicate young girl on his arm struggling
across the deck. He leaned down and
called to Hal as he passed, —

If it weren't for the mails, we shouldn't
go, sir, and we may have to put back.'

'All right!' shouted Hal in return;
then he went with Griselda and Marshall,
her maid, to the cabin. Leaving them to
the stewardess, who looked sulky, for, if
there had been no lady passengers, she
could have braved the dirty ' weather '
more comfortable'.

They say it's an ill wind that blows
nobody good, Griselda,' was Hal's temporary
farewell. ' Let's hope we are the
nobodies.'

Were they ? At all events, this gale

was Griselda's friend. For they tumbled
about the Channel for four mortal hours.
Four hours of physical torture to Hal,
who, though he supposed himself a good
sailor, found himself prostrate and wishing
that his valet — who was prostrate
also— or the steward, or the captain, or
anybody — would throw him overboard.

Every woman he knew, Including
Griselda and Lady Hermlone, might have
died before his smarting eyes would
have turned to look at them. The gale
and the sea had come to Griselda's
rescue. She had sat calmly while the
boat reeled to Calais on the waves
like some rudderless, helpless cockle-shell
bathe her maid's head with eau de
Cologne, and comforting some crying
children whose mother was ' down ' In an
opposite berth, while she was the envy

of the sour stewardess, who said she
couldn't do nothing for no one, having
that pain in her head on these awful
journeys, when ladies who choose to
take the risk must really expect to look
after themselves.'

It came to her rescue, for it sobered
Hal, and sharply but decisively cured
his capricious fit of romance. When they
were in harbour, and Griselda met him
on deck leaning dejectedly upon the
steward's arm, she seemed like a special
mercy, standing there so straight and
fresh and smiling and ready, she was the
only member of the four capable of action.
She it was who helped the polite officers
of the ' Duane' in their examination of
the luggage. She hailed close conveyances
to drive to the station ; and when
her limp charges had struggled aimlessly

VOL. III. H

into the warm, bright refreshment-room,
where all was so neat, — well-dressed
French barmaid smiling in the freshest
of costumes behind the buffets, joyous-looking
French waiters rushing about ina
superior but sympathetic manner, — it
was she who enlisted one of the waiters
with a timely tip, and supplied both her
lord and master and their servants with
hot bouillon and tiny glasses of French
brandy.

You are a born nurse, Griselda,' was
Hal's speech of acknowledgment as they
took their seats in the railway carriage.

If that engine would only stop
screeching and whistling ! ' he added
pettishly.

Yes, that prosaic and painful crossing
seemed to have snapped the link between
Hal and his friend Lady Hermione

Grayburgh. She was In the past. And
in some way, as the train rattled through
the snowy landscape ornamented with
rows of blackened skeletons of trees,
Hal felt that she was done with, over,
that he was in a new mood — perhaps
not an agreeable one ; still, the future,
dreary as it might prove to be, could
not possibly contain the being who buta
few hours ago seemed to him almost
the central figure of his whole life.

'How should it.^' he thought. 'Weare
not likely to meet again. No ; that
dream that fluctuated between the delights
of the haschish-drinker and the
fiendish illusions of the victims of
dcliriiun tremens is past, as the mere
dream that it was.'

The new, rational Hal Romayne chose
a quiet hotel, and settled himself and his

young wife in Paris in a deliberate, calculating
way.

We shall stay two or three months,'
he told Griselda. * As soon as you have
seen the sights and are accustomed to
the gaiety and everything, I will lookup
my old friends, the Duchess de M — ,
the Comtesse B — , Madame de S — .
French ladles have such extraordinary
savoir faire. And from the very contrast
between you, with your English
nature, and they, I believe you might
become quite an acquired taste in Parisian
salons. After that, my mother would find
your introduction to English society a
comparative easy matter.'

Griselda scarcely understood. But,
since she had seen Lady Hermione, the
old feeling she had in childhood, when
she made her first appearance at Feather's

Court, that she and those who peopled
the world in which Hal lived were utterly
different, — was strengthened.

I must change,' she told herself. But
how to accomplish this ? The old habit
of thinking deeply and continually was
simply unconquerable. She made a constant
and vigorous effort to throw herself
out of herself, as it were — to forget that
she was Griselda Romayne, born Griselda
Black, or rather Blackett — and to be
merely a spectator, a pleased and gratified
spectator of these new scenes, just as Hal
seemed to be.

Yes ; Hal was no longer the stormy
lover, and was past settling down into
a kind but imperious husband, sometimes
passionate, at other times petulant,
given to short ebullitions of rage when
matters went wrong, or the letters from

England did not please him, but taking
a larger view of life and a more vivid
interest in his surroundings, and, in
Griselda's opinion, far more adorable, if
that could be possible, than ever.

Of late — this was after they had spent
a month in Paris — she was beginning to
feel a greater respect for the handsome
husband, who could scarcely show himself
on the Boulevards, or in theatres
and restaurants, without being admiringly
stared at. Why this was she could not
tell. She used to nurse the idea in her
mind with a new satisfaction, tenderness,
hope, particularly when she was alone,
and Hal had gone for a walk ; of late
she had felt so much fatigue that she
was glad that Hal let her off expeditions
and sight-seeing.

She had visited the theatres gravely.

This wondering gravity and her blushing
face, when Hal took her to see those
pieces which are piquant to the Parisian
temperament, first annoyed, then amused
him and flattered his vanity For he
soon noticed that the volatile French
treated Griselda with a strange respect.
Some felt reminded of the ' Sainte Verge,'
by her modest bearing and gentle face.
Others glanced at Hal, and — why they
hardly knew — were filled with chivalry on
behalf of the 'petite dame Anglaise.' To
Griselda Frenchmen seemed all Bayards,
and Frenchwomen smiling' sisters. It
puzzled her.

Two months, and Paris suddenly flung
aside her white mantle of ice, the cold
mist lifted, and she blossomed into spring.
Flowers appeared In balconies, bouquets
of early violets and lilac - bloom and

orange-blossom from the south scented
the florists' shops ; white parasols and
coloured awnings defied a burning spring
sun on the Boulevards. Hal took his
wife to the supreme Parisian artist in
costumes. He had already called on his
titled friends, who had returned his visit,
paying their respects to Griselda at the
same time, and invitation-cards lay on
Griselda's writing-table — accepted.

The handsome middle-aged Duchesse
dea — had perhaps been most charmed
with Griselda. She had always liked
Hal ; but Griselda won her enthusiasm.
She burst into eulogy of his bride to Hal,
as he gave her his arm to her carriage
after her visit.

Ah, Monsieur de Romain,' she said,
with an eloquent look, as she was seated
in her carriage and he lingered at the

door, 'your fortune is made with a petite
feiiinie that is Hke some dream that one
has in church when the choir sings and
the organ plays ! I am an old woman ;
I know it, so I may say what my heart
says. You should no more think of
bonnes fortunes. You possess a diamond.
Look no more upon Palais Royal paste ! '

What do they all mean ? ' Hal asked
himself. He soon found out.

Griselda, at the Duchesse's soiree, was
a fitroi^e. French tact would not allow
this fact to be obstrusively apparent.
But, while the men, congregating as
they will in Parisian drawing - rooms
in corners, in the withdrawing - room
the bolder in the outskirts of the
principal reception room where the ladies
sit, sometimes demurely, and always
with a certain coquettishness, on the

sofas, divans, arm - chairs — ■ eyed the
fair bride with a certain shyness, and
the few who were Introduced bowed,
made a few complimentary remarks,
and departed quickly — the ladies were
charmed, delighted. At parting, young
girls curtseyed and blushingly held
their foreheads to be kissed, and many
of the married ladles embraced her
or rather kissed her — on both cheeks.

As for the Duchesse, whose sharp
eyes had frequently been fixed on the
'belle dame of Monsieur de Romain,' — ■
despite her many duties — she conducted
Griselda to her bedchamber, a stately
apartment, which might have been a
modern Imitation of the royal bed-chambers
at Hampton Court — and there
became sweetly maternal in her manner.

Ckm^mante enfant! ' she said effusively.

And with so handsome 2. petit niari !
But ' — then she laid her exquisitely
gloved hand lightly on Griselda's shoulder
' where is madame votre mh^e ? '

Actual tears glistened in her eyes
when she found that the young wife was
motherless. She exacted a promise that
Griselda would come to her often,
very often.

Griselda was pleased to do so. She
instinctively felt that this good old
French lady was — or certainly might
be — a friend in need.

During the month that followed she
was much with the Duchesse. It was
an exciting month. Hal was roused —
perhaps he had never been so roused,
as by the accounts in his Times of the
outbreak in India, the first alarm of
the terrible mutiny.

We are sure to be ordered out,' he
said one afternoon, when the Duchesse
was taking a cup of English tea with
Griselda at the hotel. ' It Is Inevitable.
For my part, I thirst to be at those
black fiends as If I were a blood-hound ! '

Griselda dropped her teaspoon. She
was pale.

Monsieur de Romain,' said the
Duchesse somewhat solemnly, as Hal
escorted her down the wide staircase
shortly after, ' you must pardon me.
I am grandsire ! But, if you say
about these creatures so terribly, these
Indians of your belle A^igletei^i^e who
like her not — why — your petite dame
ravissante may die ! You may kill not
only this sweet wife, who loves you to
distraction, but — '

She paused, and looked him straight



in the eyes. * Volts coin pre nez?' she
said meaningly.

Merci, madame ;' and Hal stooped
and kissed her hand.

Best bien alors,' said the Duchesse.
And as she drove off, she felt she
had done her duty.

And Hal remained where he was —
bareheaded as he was — dazed, confused,
and, yes — why, he hardly knew —
horrified !

CHAPTER VII.

OST lives seem to begin with
a faint prophecy of their progress
and end. Childhood is
the keynote, telling of the scale which
must follow. Griselda was born in a
barn, in the snow — an exceptional birth.
She was an exceptional child, girl,
woman, who would seem destined to
an exceptional fate.

It was scarcely an ordinary marriage,
this of hers, the simple daughter of a
country parson, with Henry Romayne,
heir to a baronetcy, to wealth, to land.

Her honeymoon was disturbed by a
ghost from her husband's past unscrupulous
life. Then came a sudden
elevation. That three months In Paris,
In the sunshine and gaiety, petted, admired,
almost warmed Into a new outburst
of fresh young life by the sympathy
of the buoyant, butterfly natures
of Hal Romayne's P>ench acquaintances,
was a brief exquisite dream, destined to
end in a gloomy, even terrible awakening.
One day they were about to drive to
the ' Bols.' Hal, In his faultless British
morning-dress — which was the envy of
the Parisian dandies, already in love as
they were with English tailoring — was
strolling carelessly down the grand staircase
to smoke a cigarette before the
carriage came, when a telegram was
handed to him.

He felt a momentary thrill. Although
the news from India was ambiguous
and, to say the least of it, threatening,
he had been reassured by the ease with
which his extension of furlough had been
granted. He did not dream that good
old General Grayburgh, knowing that the
regiment was bound to be ordered out
sooner or later, had made intercession at
head-quarters for him, thinking it * hard
lines' for the handsome young pair to
be separated so soon, so cruelly, but inevitably.
So that his thoughts flew, first, homewards.
His father. Sir Hubert ? Griselda's
father ? His mother ? What was it }

He went into the divine-saloon, which
was a desert of white tables, and opened
the telegram.

As he read, he staggered, paled, and
sank in a chair, stunned.

Recalled — at once — regiment under
sailing-orders for India!

He clenched and crumpled the paper.
Then he groaned. His head fell upon
his breast, his clutch loosened, and the
flimsy messenger of ill-tidings dropped
flutteringly to the floor, where a soft
spring breezelet from the open window
caught and played with It In a sunbeam,
as if In mockery.

Then he started, —

O2C est Monsieur Romayne ? ' Grl-
selma's sweet, girlish voice — that had a
new resonance born of this joyous,
careless life — without !

He heard some one tell her as he
rose stiffly to his feet, ground his teeth,
and, seizing a carafe of water, poured
out a glassful and swallowed it. Then
he faced her, as she gently pushed open

VOL. III. I

the door and stood there half shyly,
waiting for Hal's approval of a pale
green velvet costume which he had
chosen for her.

How divinely fair she looked in her
beautiful dress, the very embodiment
of happy well-being, — with a faint blush
on her exquisite skin, a half-smile on
her lips, as she buttoned her gloves !
She was looking down, so she did not
see her husband's deadly pallor — his
agitation.

Charming — a greater success than I
expected ! ' he said, forcing his voice.
Come — there is the carriage ! '

'You are in a hurry,' said she, laughing.
She felt supremely happy this
golden spring day. ' I haven't half
finished those dreadful buttons. What
is that paper ? ' she added, looking back

as she went out. ' It looks like a banknotes



As far as I know, I am not in the
habit of dropping bank - notes about,'
said Hal, as he put her into the carriage.
' But I'll go and see.'

He went back and secured the telegram.
Chilled, unnerved, he stood uncovered,
tears in his eyes — and prayed
a short swift prayer — that his wife,
his good angel, might be spared.

He well knew how and in what way
she loved him. He could not tell
whether lie had the faintest suspicion
of impending separation, suspense, and
perhaps the agony of loss. And, as
for that warning of his good friend,
the Duchesse dea — , it had seemed to
him, though he had dared to approach
the subject once or twice — as if it would

be unseemly that Griselda should be
awakened from a happy present to a
serious future, however sacred and
beautiful now, by him, at this terrible
crisis, which might end in her early
widowhood.

No ; those tenderest, holiest confidences
between husband and wife must
remain hidden within his heart, while he
must deal the blow, and acquaint Gris-ella
with coming contingencies, as if by
accident. For a mental shock given
carelessly and seemingly without intention,
falls, perhaps, less heavily than
one driven home by force of will.

They drove along the gay boulevards,
the sun brightening the lively scene. It
might have been an Oriental city, so
gorgeous were the crimsons and yellows
and greens of the shop - awnings, so

brilliant the dazzling jewels in the
velvet-lined shop-fronts, and the display
of decorated baskets and ingenious surprise
bonbonnieres in the windows, where
glistening sweets, fragrant chocolate, and
marrons glands tempted the pretty little
walking dolls, the Parisian children.
- The motley pedestrians — first, the men
who thought themselves models of
elegance with their tiny waists and long
twisted moustaches, their glossy boots,
tightly-gloved hands, and accessories of
cane tucked under arm, clear in mouth,
and curly-brimmed hat perched on one
side ; then the decorous ladies, accompanied
by children and bonnes in neat
white caps, carrying market-baskets or
children's playthings ; and the pretty
impertinent grisettes, or the red-faced
outriders in their blouses — most of these

not only glanced at Griselda as she
drove by, but stayed and stared after
her with the appreciative French stare,
a thing of itself quite apart from all
other stares prevalent in all other cities.

Hal saw, and was gratified even in
his new passion of grief — boyish grief.
A glance at Griselda, so placidly sweet
and smiling, and he was perilously near
a convulsive sobbing-fit. He roused his
courage. But speak to her, here, now .'*
It was impossible !

Suddenly he rose, knelt on the opposite
seat, and ordered the coachman
to drive into the country, He wanted
to go to some village — any pretty village
where Madame might see a farm
and wood, if possible — some village
vv^here one might almost forget Paris, if
one could.

The coachman, after some pondering,
decided upon his route, and informed
Hal with a certain gravity that he
would do his best. Then, as Hal resumed
his seat, the man whipped up his horses
and drove on at a rattling pace.

My dear — whatever is he doing ?
Griselda, clutching her husband, looked

alarmed.

Only driving a little faster,' said Hal
reassuringly. But his spirits sank as he
saw Griselda pale, her eyes very blue,
and a scared expression on her delicate
face.

I don't know what can have come
to me,' she said, with a faint blush of
shame, as she caught sight of her husband's
anxious eyes. ' Hal, Paris
seems to have transformed me. All my
old pluck has gone. I used to think

nothing of holding a child when Doctor
Mayne operated ; or to thread the
needles if he had to sew up a cut ; I
never seemed to think anything but
that I was doing a necessary duty —
but now ! Oh, Marshall brought me
the paper — I was in bed — she said
something about some atrocity in India
— oh, Hal, I am not fit to be a
soldier's wife ! I — Can you forgive
me ? I fainted.'

Her words simply roused Hal to desperation.
Now the state of desperation,
which is not despair — not recklessness,
not a negative, foolish kicking against
the pricks — is a sensation greatly underrated.
For in an unreal state of excitement
it is the friend in need — it tides
over bad minutes, it bridges over the
gulf of absolute hopelessness as no

other feeling possible to humanity
could.

The desperate are cold, hard as ice.
They seem callous. They think and
talk as wisely, perhaps more wisely, than
they ever did in their whole lives before.
No one suspects their wretched,
most wretched state.

When Hal heard his wife, in her
utter innocence, wondering at her own
weakness, — he could have groaned aloud.
But desperation helped him to behave
as wisely as any ancient sage.

My darling ! ' he said, turning a
radiant, if slightly haggard, face upon
her, ' I can explain all you feel, as, unselfish
as you are, you would not think
of doing to yourself. You are so bound
to Crowsfoot ! Your whole being resents
your lengthened absence. Well,

we will return at once, before we are
ordered off to India.'

His hands clasped hers. He looked
away at the road into which the
barouche had just turned — a road so
narrow that the ungainly weeds in the
ditch on Hal's side swept the carriage-wheels.
Rising from his stooping position,
he took one of her hands and
patted it to the time of a tune he was
whistling. He did not look at her.

A greyness crept over her beautiful
earnest face, a horror darkened her eyes.
One instant showed her her fate. She
did not see the young spring green of
the hedges and the budding trees — she
saw a sloping country where white fortresses
with many strange-looking domes
towered above the Eastern buildings,
above the tropical foliage that drooped in

the lurid heat under the cloudless
coppery sky. Not only this, she saw
men in Indian uniform struggling in
hand-to-hand fiorht, a few of the British
cavalry dashing hither and thither, sabre-king
right, left, front ; she saw black heads
falling among fountain-spirits of blood.

Then the moment's agony passed, and
with strained aching eyes she saw the
quiet French country again.

I thought that this summons would
come very soon, my dearest,' she said,
clasping her husband's arm. ' And it
has found you ready. Oh, my Hal, how
proud I am to see you so calm ! Why,
I never for one instant imagined you had
been sent for ! '

Half Hal's anguish drifted away before
Griselda's composure, as he listened
to her tender voice.

My brave darling,' he said, turning
towards her with passionate admiration, —
my true wife, how I pity all those
poor fellows out there who are fighting
to rescue a lot of frivolous dolls who are
all very well In times of peace ! Oh,
yes, I know some of the women have
behaved wonderfully ! Still — still — there
is only one Griselda in the world ! '

Perhaps there had never been such
perfect accord, or never would be again
In this world, between those two wedded
lovers, hitherto basking In the sunshine
of life, but now suddenly confronted by
a horrible future — as there was to-day
In that little French village. The people
at the Inn fell In love with the young
English couple, especially after the cocker
talked enthusiastically to the landlord
of his jeitJie capitaine, who, his valet

had said, must go with his brothers-harms
to be cut to pieces by the black
devils that Angleterre had been folle
enough to adopt. Madame — a fat good-natured
mother of the night capped brood
of little children, who were jabbering as
they played with stones in the gutter under
the bar-window — made an excuse to eo
into the parlour where the handsome
young monsieur and madame were resting.
This excuse was to propose they
should dine before returning to Paris.
In reality she had never dreamt that
such ' quality ' would accept her homely
fare.

She was astonished when Griselda
looked pleadingly at Hal, and he consented
in a sort of royal bantering way,
as a king out hunting might accept
some peasant's fare. Then afterwards

she stole out and watched them walking
slowly towards the wood.

It was horrible to think of that jeuiie
homme martinique to be killed — chopped
up, the coc/iei^ had said. And that
sweet petite dame ! I f perchance —

The good woman danced at the little
night - capped heads bobbing about —
sighed, and shook her head.

And Hal and Griselda wandered into
the young woods, he watching the green
lights play upon her soft green velvet
dress and upon her delicate face, with the
sad lino-elinor gaze of one who takes leave
of some beautiful object he may never see:;
again, while Griselda, with her old frankness,
spoke out freely, and tried to coax
Hal to discuss the situation. She coukl
not quite understand his taciturnity
wonder, fcr in speaking of the

journey out, and the perils of the Indian
campaign, she plainly showed that she
intended to be at his side even unto
death.

And he — he dared not take her.

Yet there was still the remote chance
that the brood old — Hal thought of her
now as meddlesome — duchesse might have
surmised wrongly. While his own observation
told him she had not, — he clung
to the forlorn hope that even with her
large experience she had for once made
an error of judgment, — as the drowning
clutch at the straws.

'Hal,' said Griselda at last, 'my love,
I think you joyous temperaments get
dreadful reactions. You are as " down" asa
man can be. Now I, so dull, so quiet
not only feel entirely hopeful, but' — here
she paused, and, raising her eyes to the

sky, her face had a glorified expression
' I feel that although we may have
cruel trials, all will be well at last. Something
tells me so. I seem to hear a voice
that says, "Peace! All is mine." '

Her strong faith influenced Hal. He castoff
his forebodings, and was happy with
the provisional happiness of one who enjoys
a short respite before the inevitable fight.

They wandered about, hand in hand ;
and, to Griselda's delight, they found
some field-flowers, and also a clearing,
with the felled trunks lying here and
there, not so unlike the memorable clearing
at Goarshausen where she and Hal
were lovers for the first time. This led
to talk of those days which to both
seemed ages back in the long past.
Charming talk — those confessions of how
Griselda thought and dreamt of and

longed for Hal, almost without knowing
it ; of how Hal was a very demon with
one idea — Griselda.

You have had such a power over me,
my love, that I believe, if I had to kill
our worst foe over there, and just as I
was about to strike he shouted " Griselda,"
my arm would fall to my side and he
would be spared

Griselda sighed. To her all killing was
murder ; and It would be long before she
could think of her husband as a slayer of
his kind without a shudder.

They had their simple dinner at the
auberge. Then they drove back to Paris,
clinging to each other like children, and,
like children, dreaming so lite of the
coming hideous episodes in their joint
lives that, when they slept, they smiled
unconsciously In their happy dreams.

VOL. III. , K

While Hal and Griselda were wandering
in the woods around Paris, the news
that Captain Romayne — for Hal had his
promotion — was ordered to India with
his regiment, had arrived at Feathers
Court. It seemed such a glorious day,
as if no pain, trouble, or dread could
triumph where nature was rejoicing in
her yearly revelation. The sun shone
on the great stone mansion in the park.
Birds sang loudly in the shrubberies,
heavy white blossoms were struggling
into full bloom on the chestnuts, and a
warm spring wind played with the nodding
tulips in the Italian gardens, and
carried the heavy perfume of hyacinths
into the great drawing-room, where the
long windows were opened to admit the
scented air.

Without, all so fresh, so joyous ; within,

a scene of excited lamentation. Lady
Romayne had resolutely thrust from her
mind all doubts or fears as to Hal's being
sent to India. She had chosen to be an
optimist in regard to the Mutiny. If any
dared to suggest that the evil was deep
rooted, had grown silently but steadily till
it was as a mortal cancer, its branches
reaching from end to end of England's
great dependency, she smiled disdainfully.
Therefore, when terrible accounts of new
uprisings, fresh rebellions of native regiments,
and outrages too atrocious to relate
arrived day after day — her false hopes
fled, and she sank into a nervous, unhinged
state of miserable foreboding.

Then came the deadly blow. Her
adored Hal was summoned. At first she
was as a mad woman, rushing from room
to room, tearing her hair, screaming.

Lydia had to pacify Sir Hubert, who,
in his helpless paralytic state, only half
understood what was going on. Mabel
sent off to Crowsfoot for Doctor Mayne
and Mr Blackett.

John Blackett was deeply impressed
by the news of Hal's summons to the seat
of war. A thoughtful man, he foresaw
greater evils to come before peace could
be restored, a peace bought by the
sacrifice of many promising and noble
lives, by the wreck of many English
homes.

Don't be so lugubrious, man ! ' said
the little Doctor, as he drove his old
friend, the parson, to the Court. ' That
young fellow's pull through safe enough,
and out there he will learn a lesson or
two that'll be a shower bath to any Don
Juan nonsense that may be left m him.

Besides, absence from Griselda will teach
him the value of his jewel.'

But, Griselda ? ' said the Vicar doubtful.
' Do you think for one instant she
will not insist upon sharing his danger ?'

• Blackett ! ' burst out the Doctor. ' Oh,
these philosophers, these extraordinary
thinkers ! Shadow of Swift, all honour
to you for your satire of the Papuans !
Griselda to accompany her husband !
Well, I suppose there is some commonsense
left about somewhere, though this
mismanagement in India wouldn't lead
one to think so.'

The Doctor felt enraged almost for a few
moments after Mr Blackett had spoken,
wondering whether he could have heard
aright. ' Women going out with their
husbands to meet those infuriated hordes,
indeed,' he thought.

'\ tell you what, Blackett he said, kindly
but decidedly, after they had driven into
the park, ' I am a neutral. Nor has
much learnlnor made me mad. If Gris-ella
dreams of going with Hal, I will use
heaven and earth to prevent it, that's all.'

John Blackett was in a meek humour, and

allowed Doctor Mayne to mildly bully him.

• It was well that he was meek, and that

the Doctor effervesced somewhat before

spending a day at Feather's Court. For

if ever two men were harried and worried,

it was they. Not till within an hour of

the expected arrival of Hal and Griselda

did Lady Romayne make any attempt at

self-command, and the house seemed all in

confusion — servants going aimlessly here

and there, the maids collecting in corners

to gossip, and apparently no rooms being

prepared for Mr and Mrs Romayne.

The Doctor came into the great hall
about seven o'clock with an air of relief.
At least, the day was over. John Blackett
was leaning against the hall door, looking
through a side-window. Mabel, in a
white gown, and Lydia, wearing a pretty
dinner-dress, stood silently by.

It is near the time,' said Lydia
mournfully.

Then where is your mother ? ' asked
the Doctor imperiously.

Lydia said she could not possibly
come down, of course. She would see
Hal alone first.

Will she .'^ ' asked Doctor Mayne,
going off upstairs, agile as a youth.

Doctor Mayne is very impetuous
to-day,' said Lydia dismally. Both girls
stared, when, a few minutes afterwards,
their mother came down the broad staircase,

leaning on his arm. The Doctor
had been impetuous to some purpose.

There Is the carriage,' said Doctor
Mayne. ' Come, come, let us try and
receive the bride and bridegroom as if
we were glad to see them.'

Men-servants drew back the solid
oaken doors. The brougham drove upto
the foot of the wide steps. Its lamps
yellow against the fading crimson of the
sky. Then a lithe active figure sprang
out, waved his hand, helped a lady to
alight, and both came buoyantly up to
the entrance.

The lamplight gleamed upon the two
bright glowing faces. There was an air
of delighted triumph about Hal, as he
lifted Griselda's veil and said, —

Don't kiss her all at once ; ' and no
one, glancing at the young wife, would

have believed that a tinge of sadness
could be veiled by that sweet joyousness
of manner as Griselda embraced
her father, Lady Romaine, and her
sisters-in-law, \vith almost equal ardour.

Mother, I hope dinner is ready ; weare
ferociously hungry — we die of hunger,
as the French say,' said Hal, throwing
aside his travelling-cloak. ' Make haste,
darling ; never mind dressing,' he called
after Griselda, who was going up-stairs
arm in arm with Mabel.

The two had brought an atmosphere
of vivid happy life into lugubrious
Feather's Court. John Blackett smiled,
Doctor Mayne was cheerily sarcastic,
and Lady Romayne felt slightly ashamed
of her undignified abandonment to a
possible grief.

Dinner passed off pleasantly. Hal

was gay, Griselda smiled. * I had no
idea she was so beautiful,' whispered
Mabel to Doctor Mayne.

Nor I, until to-day,' he answered,
in a significant tone. He had not lived
a life of perpetual observation and deduction
therefrom for nothing ; and he
saw that this young couple were meeting
their fate as simply and cheerfully
as all people should — ' only they don't,
or won't,' he added to himself.

Next morning came Important letters,
followed by a special messenger, Hal
was closeted for some time with him
in the library, while Lady Romayne
wandered from the drawing-room to her
boudoir, unable to keep still under this
ordeal to her impatient nature. Lydia
and Mabel went to Griselda's sitting-room,
which commanded a fine view of

the park and the hie hills beyond.
They had heard from their maid that
Marshall, Mrs Romayne's maid, was almost
as much at her wit's end about
starting for India without 'a proper outfit,
which couldn't — do what you mj'ght
be got, all in a hurry — at least for a
lady like Mrs. Romayne,' as about starting
for India at all.

The sisters found Griselda sittings ia
an easy-chair in a delicate grey ,
busy with some lacework.

She looked up with a grave smile as
they entered.

'Why,' Mabel burst out, 'we expected
to find you and Marshall up to
your ears in confections, and here you
are, doing lacework as if you were to
be a fixture, instead of going thousands
and thousands of miles away ! '

Lydia admired the work. Griselda was
transferring some old Brussels sprigs
that had belonged to her mother.

But these honos veils are not worn
now,' Lydia added, half inquiringly, with
a keen glance at her sister-in-law. An
idea had struck her, for quiet Lydia
could observe when she chose. ' I think
I understand the situation,' she thought,
just as Mabel said, —

Whatever are you to do about an
outfit, Griselda ? Of course you have
lots of pretty things. But you don't want
them — you will want woollens, and silk
underlings, and solar topers, whatever
those may be, and white umbrellas — '

We could see to those being sent after
you, dear,' said Lydia. ' Shall we goto
London for you to-day and get enough
things for your journey ? '

Griselda laid aside her work, and,
putting her slender hands on Lydia's
shoulders, looked up into her eyes with
a look which Lydia — who had a heart
beating with a touch of Romayne passion
beneath her quiet exterior — never
forgot. There was a depth of anguish,
appealing love, and desperate patience
she had seen but once before — in the
eyes of a pet spaniel who was struggling
in the agonies of death.

At that moment the door opened, and
Hal came in, pale, agitated. He did
not look at his wife ; but, after a few
commonplaces, he sent his sisters away.

I will come to mother presently,' he
said, as he opened the door for them ;
and they went out, scared and subdued.

He locked and bolted the door, went
to Griselda, and, kneeling down beside

her, encircled her with his arms, his
face hidden upon her shoulder. His
teeth chattered, his whole body trembled
convulsively.

My own,' he said, ' I feel as if I
were dying.'

Griselda soothed and comforted him.
She eave him a cordial that the kind
old duchess had given her at parting,
as a precious secret restorative which
would reanimate when all others failed.
Then she drew a low tabouret to his
side, and said, —

Do not worry about me, darling ! I
know — I guess — you leave to-day. But
I am prepared for it ! Before we left
Paris, I knew that I must not go with
you.'

He started, flushed, then drew her
sweet, blushing face to him and kissed

her. while a passionate prayer went up
from his soul to Heaven that his wild
youth might be forgiven for the sake
of wife — and child.

That night he went, calmly and bravely.
Griselda's hopes had been a consolation
to Lady Romayne, and Mr Blackett
blamed himself for not feeling so sorry
as he ought when Hal drove off in the
brougham, waving his adieux, till the
clump of trees hid the carriage from view.

She will be quite as well without
him,' he thought, as he supported
Griselda to her room, followed by Lady
Romayne, who was struggling for composure.
' There, I believe, he will distinguish
himself and forget his foppishness.
Here he would have sickened of
sweet indolence, and might have fallen
back into his old ways.'

Poor father, with his rdchattffd of
worldly wisdom, with his human arguments,
his human short-sightedness !

For a time all went well at Feather's
Court. Griselda was cheerful. Lady
Romayne was as fussy and devoted to
her Hal's young wife as she had been
to her Hal himself.

I am leading such a white-satin life,'
Griselda told her father one day, when
she was accompanying him through the
shrubberies, ' that I shall be fit for
nothing by-and-by. As for my patience,
that you used to say was my only good
point — don't shake your head, father,
you know you did — there seems nothing
to try it. It will wither and disappear
from actual disuse.'

Wait — wait, my dearest child,' said

the Vicar. He knew how cautiously all
the Indian news was investigated before
Griselda was allowed to see the newspapers,
how many white lies which he
would have scorned to tell were placidly
coined by Lady Romayne in her daughter-in-law's
behalf. Griselda had had but
one letter from Hal, a few lines written
hurriedly on the voyage when they
signalled a vessel homeward bound, —

Darling Wife — Dear Mother, — A
chance to send a line by passing ship.
All well, and as jolly as sand-boys.
Concerts, plays — there are some sharp
fellows in our ranks, I can tell you I
We have had some pretty hot weather ;
but our medico says I stand it splendidly,
and am in glorious trim for wholesale
execution of those 'brigands," as

VOL. III. L

the Parisians call them. Oh, my Gris-ella,

how are you ? Keep happy, for

my sake. And, mother, 1 feel doubly

about you— and father — and all — since

well, let Griselda finish the sentence !

Fancy, when I come back to you, covered

with glory, viimis a leg, perhaps, or

with an empty sleeve — but what matters

that ? Colonel, or nothing ! — that's mv

war-cry.' (Here came a word black

with ink-erasure). ' Excuse that blotted

word. It was " deuce," I think. The

gong sounded for letters to be handed

in. Ail revoir — au revoir, my own v.'ife

and all dear ones, Hal.'

After this brisk, boyish scribble, ' so
like Hal,' as his woman-kind said, with
Wistful fondness, came blank, unbroken
silence. News had come of the mutiny

at Lucknow, of the recapture of Allahabad.
Horrible, sickening accounts of
the massacres and mutilations of English
mothers, wives, sisters, daughters, had
fired the anger of every British man.
Civilians longed to join their military
brethren in exterminating the human
wild beasts who used their gift of
reason to invent devilries beyond and
above even the hell-torments imagined
by the painter Fra angelico. England's
blood was white-hot in her veins, as
perhaps it had never been, — and, by
God's help, — will never be again.

Then came the awful tale of Cawnpore,
read throughout the land with
pale horror, told with bated breath.
England, that memorable day, seemed
crushed, as if ready to sink into a
merciful sea which would drown her woes.

Lady Romayne read, aghast. But a
sudden spirit seemed to animate her.
Her boy — well, he was doubtless in
danger, and evidently cut off by the
enemy from communication with home.
But in this crisis she must sink ordinary
individual feelings, except her duty ta
her beloved son in protecting his wife
she must be an Englishwoman, calm
and strong in the honourable anger
which sins not.

It was well that she was nerved fora
moral battle, for a few minutes after
her maid came to say, as she handed
her a twisted note, —

The Doctor and Mr Blackett, my
lady, in Sir Hubert's office; they came
quite quiet-like through the stable-yard.'

How those common words brought
death to her forlorn hope, stabbed her

heart! She seemed to feel her life
stop, halt.

She staggered. Her maid, alarmed,
got her some sal-volatile. She drank
it. Then she went quickly down the
back-stair, and into the office Sir Hubert
used before he had his paralytic
stroke.

John Blackett and Doctor Mayne stood
near the window.

I have not read your letter, gentlemen,'
she said, almost defiantly, ' because
I know — my son is dead ! '

She had spoken more than she really
believed, in a sort of delirious agony.
What was this ? Both men were silent
Mr Blackett's head hung upon his
breast — Doctor Mayne took a step
forward.

Too late ! With a smothered cry, the

unhappy mother threw up her arms,
then fell backwards on the polished
flooring, as one dead — by Heaven's
mercy, rejoining her best-beloved child,
her lost Hal.

Doctor MAYNE and Mr

Blackett assisted Lady Romayne
to poor Sir Hubert's
great arm-chair, where he used to sit so
often building castles in the air of a great
future for his eldest born. How little
had he dreamt that one day, so soon,
his bereaved wife would lie there, insensible
with grief at the news that
brave, handsome Hal was dead, killed,
perhaps massacred, in India !

Lady Romayne's maid had followed her
mistress, and fetched restoratives so quietly,

that the household little thought what
news the old postman had brought in the
Feather's Court post-bag.

The unhappy mother's first cry was —
How — oh, when — was it?' Doctor
Mayne looked at Mr Blackett.

We have the news direct from General
Grayburgh,' the Vicar said, taking her
trembling hand kindly between his ; ' the
General wrote under cover to me. Mayne,
the letters, please.'

Doctor Mayne produced one of those
mysterious leathern instrument-cases which
his young patients held in such awe, and
handed Lady Romayne a letter.

She shrunk back, crying, ' No — no — •
I can't see ; read it.' She could not face
the awful news ; she covered her face
with her hands.

John Blackett read, in a faltering voice,

which sounded tragical in the dead silence,
as the doctor and the maid stood by as
mourners stand by a grave : —

India, July — ///, '57.
My dear, good Lady Romayne, — Be
Worthy of that fine fellow, your son Hal,
who has yielded his life for his country
as a soldier should. I am writing to the
mother of a hero, so I need not mince
matters. Captain Romayne, after being
slightly wounded in a skirmish, volunteered
to go to the relief of Colonel S — ,
who was to have arrived here ten days
since, and about whom we had grave
misgivings. After a few days, a scout
arrived with the terrible intelligence that
Colonel S — had been beaten back into
a native fortress, and that the reinforcement
sent to his aid had been cut to
pieces by the rebels. The scout had

seen the remains of Captain Romayne^s
company, and they arrived here yesterday
with full accounts of the catastrophe.
They were surprised in camp,
at night, and overpowered. The account
of the massacre is one on the long list
which daily increases, and almost each
hour princes news to add to it. I will
write again, and on our return, which can
scarcely be yet a while, I hope to find
that the Almighty has mercifully consoled
the good mother and the dear young
widow of one of the most daring and
brave young officers England has ever
lost. — I am, yours most faithfully,

Thomas Grayburgh
(General in Command, etc.)

Pes. — I have your son's watch and
chain, also a ring recognised as his, found

upon a Sepoy shot later on by our returning

men.

That letter had been written by the
good old General with a full heart. It
was read and heard in Sir Hubert's
little study at Feather's Court with a
grief too deep for tears.

All but one word was listened to by
Lady Romayne with a sort of incredulous
stupor ; and at that word ' widow,' she
started ; the truth came home to her.

As John Blackett read the General's
message, the afterthought of poor Hal's
watch and ring, she burst into passionate
sobs.

Poor soul ! Let her cry,' said Doctor
Mayne, almost desperately. Then going
away to the window, he gazed out into the
gardens, brilliant in the steady August

sunshine, and, while he unconsciously
rattled the money in his pockets — a trick
of his when he felt beaten by the skeleton
Death — he thought back upon many bad
half-hours, among them that Christmas Eve
when Griselda was born in the snow, and
that cruel summer night when Hal was
supposed killed in the railway accident.

But this beats all ! ' he thought. ' Here
Blackett and I have barely begun the
wretched business. There's Griselda to
be told ; then we know pretty well what
will follow that — '

Here he turned, arrested by the word
^ Griselda.'

Lady Romayne, with a vague feeling
she must not be unworthy of her brave,
dead son, had controlled her sobs, and,
rising with Mr Blackett's support, said
brokenly, but eloquently, —

Griselda — our — Griselda.'

Doctor Mayne, re-animated by this attempt
at self-control, came briskly forward.

John Blackett proposed to break the
news to his child himself.

No, no, that will never do,' said the
Doctor, who fully appreciated Blackett,
but thought him deficient In tact. ' Remember
that Griselda Is my patient, and,
that we have such an ugly business before
us — dangerous, too — that we want
all our wits together to soften the shock.'

Then he proposed that Marshall, Grls-
ella's maid, should go to awaken her as
usual, and that, when she had breakfasted
and dressed. Doctor Mayne should fetch
her, ostensibly for a consultation as to
whether Mr Blackett, or Blunt, or someone,
should go out to Hal, who was dangerously
wounded.

John Blackett's face fell.

I hate lies,' he said ; * better the blow
better anything, than a lie ! ' He might
well feel thus — he, whose life had been
shrouded, banned, by the suppression of
truth !

She will guess it,' said Doctor Maine
bluntly — 'that's one comfort.' Doctor-like,
his principal interest lay with his
patient, who was, as it were, to undergo
torture while his fingers pressed her pulse.
Now I'll go off and find the maid —
what's her name ? — Marshall, and coach
her up.'

Going into the servants' quarters, the
gentle clatter of breakfast preparation,
the sound of cheerful voices and laughter,
the Dutch picture, framed by the open
kitchen door, of glowing fire and bright
ranges of red copper and white tin, also

the savoury odours of peppery dishes,
dominated by coffee, — struck him as incongruous.


'Life and death elbow each other with
a vengeance on this incomprehensible
little globe,' he thought, as he paced the
stone passage, waiting for Marshall.

Marshall, a neat girl, with shining dark
hair, came out of the still-room with Mrs
Romayne's breakfast-tray'.

Go and put that down, there's a good
girl, and come here,' said Doctor Mayne.

Time pressed and would not admit of
ceremony.

Marshall did as she was told, and returned.


• There is bad news from India,' said
the Doctor, in an undertone: 'and your
mistress's life depends upon your discretion,
mv discretion — in fact, an incautious

word or look from anyone may spot!
everything.'

Marshall paled, but looked steadily at
Doctor Mayne.

I suppose the Captain is wounded
sir.'

Worse than that — the very worst ! '

Captain Romayne is not dead, sir ?
if you mean that,' said the girl calmly.
At least I cannot believe it, and I know
that Mrs Romayne will not.'

The Doctor stared. Was the girl
daft? He hastened to tell her the bad
news in detail. But she shook her
head.

I will tell you why I can't think
but that there is some mistake, sir,' she
went on. 'It is because Mrs Romayne
is so set upon it that, whatever may
happen to the Captain, he will get over

it. She has read all the most horrible
things, and she has told me of them.
But she always said at the end, with a
smile, " Ought I not to be thankful,
Marshall, that Captain Romayne will be
spared to me?" It used to make me
feel uncanny-like at first. But now
I've come to believe in it, just as
Mrs Romayne does herself.'

It was on the Doctor's lips to say,
You and Mrs Romayne are a couple
of idiots.' However he repressed the
speech, and lectured Marshall as to her
conduct. She said, ' You may depend
on me, sir,' and went upstairs with
her tray, as composedly as if nothing
had happened.

Curious,' thought the Doctor, looking
after her, and stroking his chin, — ' very
curious ! ' Then he went off to find

VOL. III. M

'the girls,' who ought to be told, or
rather prepared for their brother's loss
wondering, as he went, at the mysteries
of people's influence over one
another. ' The maternity influences Gris-ella,
and Griselda influences that girl,'
he told himself. Still, he had an uncomfortable
sensation of unreality. ' After
all, what if there were a possibility of
Hal's—'

No, no! It would not do to start
forlorn hopes. As soon as he had told
the girls— who seemed too crushed and
stunned to be either help or hindrance —
he went to Griselda's room and knocked.

She was orivintr some orders to Marshall,
but turned a pale grave face towards
the Doctor.

She suspects ! ' he thought. ' She
must know that the mail is in.'

She held out her hand silently. ' Good-morning,
Doctor,' she said. ' Who — who
is the patient ?'

He reddened under her scrutinising
gaze. Somehow, he felt as if in the
presence of a superior power that had
rebuked him for daring to take matters
into his own hands.

Lady Romayne is not very well this
morning. She has sent me to ask you
to come to see her in the drawing-room.'
The Doctor spoke kindly, but
not with his usual confidence.

In one moment.'

Griselda went into the adjoining room.
It was Kal's , dressing-room. After his
departure, she had locked it, and kept
the key in her pocket. The room was
as he had left it, the coat he had last
worn thrown aside, papers strewing the

floor, a hat lying where it had fallen,
trifles he had not taken standing about
on the chest of drawers and mantelpiece,
some cigar-ash in a tray on his writing-table,
torn letters in the waste - paper
basket, a glove, and a light bedroom
chair fallen aside where he had last
taken her in his arms for that passionate
parting embrace.

This room was her chapel, where she
prayed — had prayed with such prayers
that Heaven seemed to open and cast
down a pitiful * Yea ' upon her soul
before it fell in prostrate agonising craving
that all — all — might be taken from her,
except — except her — Hal's life.

As she stood there now, she pressed
her temples tightly with her fingers.
There is bad news,' she slowly thought —
bad news ; they — think — he — is — dead ! '

Then a sudden horror of the possibility
overwhelmed her, and her soul
seemed to leap up, imploring, begging
a sign from the Almighty Power.

One instant of agony — then it was
as if a flood of joy was let loose, and
as if everything — the very atoms in the
air, the inanimate objects around, the
living Nature without, basking in the
sun, joined in one great 'No!'

The effect was overpowering. She
almost believed that the shout must
have burst upon all ears like a thunderclap.


Thank God ! ' was her fervent prayer.
In danger — in many dangers he maybe,
but not — not dead!'

Doctor Mayne, waiting with impatient
eyes fixed upon the clock, saw her
coming quietly out, with a happy sunshiny

smile playing about her lips, —
and mentally groaned.

She does not suspect,' he thought
in dismay, as he followed her downstairs.
' What's to be done now ?
Another scene — two of them this time.
That unfortunate boy was always upsetting
everything when he was alive,
and it doesn't seem to be much better
now it's all over with him.'

He closed the drawing-room door after
they had entered, almost in despair,
thinking with professional feeling that
this sort of thing must kill somebody ;
and he had hoped to save all parties
concerned at Feather's Court.

And Griselda ? The instant she saw
her father standing gloomily on the
hearth-rug near to Lady Romayne, who
was pale, and who crouched upon,

rather than sat on, a couch near, her
head averted — she knew what had happened.


She went quickly to Lady Romayne,
knelt by her, took her hand, and affectionately
kissing it said, —

Mother, darling, the mail is a bad one,
I fear.'

Lady Romayne convulsively clasped
the young widow's hands, and choked.
She felt bursting, her lips trembled, her
face twitched.

Father, I must know all about it,
please,' said Griselda firmly, putting her
arm protecting round her Hal's mother,
and looking ^ almost sternly at John
Blackett with her clear candid eyes. ' I
know you meant it kindly ; but, if any
newspapers or letters came likely to
shock mother, I was the proper person

to have been told first, that I might
prepare her.'

Doctor Mayne scratched his head, incapable
of thought. John Blackett stared
first at his daughter, puzzled, bewildered,
then at Doctor Mayne, whose eyes looked
dull as with an opiate, — then at Lady
Romayne.

Tell her,' said she brokenly. * Oh,
my poor darling ! '

^ We have had our bad news direct
from General Grayburgh,' said her father
firmly.

The letter, please, ' was Griselda's
reply, stretching out one hand.

Oh, no, no, ' sobbed Lady Romayne,
clasping Griselda closer.

Griselda half-smiled, whispered some
tender endearing words, and repeated her
demand.

Her father glanced at Doctor Mayne.

You must use your own judgment
said the Httle Doctor, walking away.

John Blackett handed General Gray-burgh's
letter to his child. Still kneeling,
still embracing Lady Romayne, she read
it — twice — thrice.

'Is this all?' she asked. 'This poor,
good, old man has lied — unconsciously —
but this news of his is a lie.'

My child — think — there is more, perhaps
— do not have false hopes,' began
John Blackett.

'Hush, hush!' said Doctor Mayne,
briskly returning, having consulted with
himself, and decided that this strange attitude
of Griselda's was the work of
Nature, who works miracles to protect
the young, and must be helped rather
than discouraged. * Mrs Romayne is

quite right. After all, what are the
proofs ? '

Lady Romayne shuddered.

There are none,' said Griselda, ' And,,
even if there were, I should not believe
Hal dead. He may be ill, suffering, in
danger — but not dead. That letter is a
message to me — I am to go to him.'

John Blackett gazed miserably at his
daughter. Had the idea of her husband's
death disorganised her brain ?

Humour her — it is the best things
to do, ' whispered Doctor Mayne. He
thought this mood was a prelude to
sudden illness.

But Griselda maintained her position
defended her opinion, not only that day,
but the days that followed. And while
Feather's Court was silent as a tomb, and
tears were shed openly and in secret

while mourning was talked of, and the
next occurrence expected was the arrival
of a milliner to superintend the horrors
of crape and the rest of the panoply of
woe, Griselda and her maid were busy
packing to start for India.

When it was discovered that Mrs Romayne
had taken berths in the next P.
& O. steamer for herself and her faithful
Marshall, there was a battle of words at
Feather's Court.

It was suddenly discovered that, in
point of fact, no one could actually prevent
Griselda from executing her wild
notion.

< She was legally a free agent, at liberty
to go or to stay when and how she chose.

Legally, but not morally,' said John
Blackett tenderly, but firmly, to his
daughter, who was to him a sudden problem

he could not solve. He talked,
argued, warned — all went for nothing.

Lady Romayne feared she was mad.

*What to do I don't know,' she said,
distractedly. ' No one seems to do anything,
and, if we do not keep her by force,
she will carry out her suicidal mania, for
that's what it is.'

Hal was dead — yet they knew no date,
they could not openly assert his death asa
certainty, and the official reports merely
mentioned him as killed in a sortie.

I'll tell you what to do,' Doctor Mayne
said, on the eve of Griselda's wild journey.
' Humour her. Take her yourself,
Blackett. This is merely a flash in the
pan. If I am not greatly mistaken, she will
not be well enough to start. If she starts,
she will either be ill on board, or you will
have to go on shore and remain there at

Gib or Valetta. We must prepare for
the worst, but hope for the best. She is
her mother's daughter with a vengeance !
Only her mother dared the snow to help
a fellow-creature, and she is going literally
through the fire, to what ? To a dead
husband ! '

As it seemed impossible to bring Gris-ella
to reason, John Blackett designed to
escort his daughter and her maid himself.

It was a sultry, rainy day as the three
left Feather's Court. Lady Romayne was
prostrate with nervous weakness in her
darkened room. The girls seemed scared.
The household generally was wrapped in
gloom, from Sir Hubert, who was more
fretful than usual, down to the dogs, who
lay in corners with limp tails, only noticing
the preparations for the departure by lazily
opening their dulled eyes as the servants

went to and fro. When Griselda kissed
her sisters-in-law and hurried to the carriage,
one old hound rose, stretched himself,
yawned, and, coming to the door,
sniffed, and with one half-disdainful look
after the carriage, retired to his mat.
There was an atmosphere of unbelief in
anything but the dullest misery, that
Griselda had keenly felt those days of
preparation — and, looking back at Feather's
Court, as they drove through the great
park gates, she clasped her hands, and
said, with a new passion unlike her old
self,—

sat last— at last— thank God! The
moments have seemed days — it seems
countless ages since that morning when
you all began to persist that he was dead ! '

Her father sighed. Marshall, who was
a little excited, starting to ' rush into the

massacre, ' as the butler, who hoped
eventually to marry her, had termed it,
looked eloquently at her mistress. John
Blackett glanced out at the dull rainy
landscape, and sighed.

But the strong faith, hope, love, that
burned as a fierce fire in Griselda's soul, influenced
John Blackett in spite of himself.

Once fairly started on her quest, Gris-ella
was active, hopeful, even cheerful.
She showed no trace of fatigue during
the harassing day in London, followed by
the railway journey. Once on board, she
retired to her cabin and slept like an
infant. Her father grew anxious as day
followed day, as they touched at landing-stages
and steamed away again, and the
chances of the stoppage of Griselda's
pilgrimage grew less and less. Both she
and her maid seemed impervious to

changes of climate, to storms, raging seas,
parching heat, scorching sun.

It is just as if they had charmed Hves/
the Vicar thought, as he paced the deck
at night, taking his first long gaze at the
much-vaunted and disappointing constellation,
the Southern Cross. Then he meditated
on the strangeness of the fact, that
sometimes the weakest creatures brave
dangers to which the strongest succumb.
He felt uneasy now about himself. The
ship's surgeon had shaken his head when
he detailed his unpleasant symptoms to
him. The journey which had barely tired
Griselda and her maid had seriously
affected him. His temperature was high,
his pulse raced, he could neither eat nor
sleep. At Bombay he was stricken with
fever, and Griselda had to leave him
there with an English clergyman, an old

college-friend, and to pursue her journey
alone.

It was a cruel journey. But the small
band of native servants engaged for herby
her father's friends were faithful
through all dangers, except one.

The dangers were many. The mutiny
was now so firmly established, and so
cleverly hidden by Indian subtlety, that
proffers of help had to be discarded
throughout, lest the seeming courtesy
should veil the deadliest enmity. They
travelled mostly by night, Griselda In
one litter, or palanquin, her maid in another.
By day they rested In the shade,
or in a dak-bungalow, a small house for
travellers, where they may break their
journey for a while. They suffered from
heat, although the cool season was just
beginning. They met with dust-storms

VOL. III. N

storms that rage with fury, bending
and breaking trees, rooting up the great-leased
plants and carrying them miles, while
the darkness rivals that of the blackest
night. They ran the gauntlet of burning
visages, of bands of infuriated Sepoy,
armed with weapons that were red with
British blood. One servant was bitten
by a poisonous snake, and was left dying
at the hut of a friendly native. But until
a certain night in the jungle, when the
worst danger occurred, the servants were
staunch and brave in the cause of the
gentle 'mem-sahib,' whose wonderful journeying,
in her state, inspired them with
a superstitious reverence.

This night all seemed ofoino- on as usual;
Griselda, hushed by a peculiar chant of
the men who carried her litter, was dreamily
gazing at the beautiful scene she was

travelling through ; at the torchlight flickering
upon the rugged stems of the giant
palms, and the graceful festoons of flowering
creepers flung gracefully from tree to
tree ; was dreamily inhaling the warm
aromatic perfume of the moist, soft earth,
when her couch was suddenly let down
she heard wild yells, then found herself
in the dark, alone — but not for more thana
minute. She heard crashing and
crunching in the jungle, then some heavy
weight seemed swung over the thin roof
of the litter, and, with a roar which was
loud as thunder close overhead, a gigantic
tiger flunof himself across into the thick
vegetation, and disappeared.

For a moment she felt stunned. Then
she saw bobbing lights, and the terrified
servants flocked back, salaaming and chattering
excuses. They professed that they

knew the man-eater would fear the
mem-sahib, but would kill them. Thus
they saved themselves by leaving her
to conquer him by her divine power.

After this, what next ? ' wondered
Griselda. She was soon to know.

The very morning after, they came
upon the brow of a hill ; and, with a full
heart, but without fear or evil anticipation,
she saw her destination — a fortress,
a white Oriental pile, pure white in the
early morning air. A long low wall
above the shining river was surmounted
by battlements and projecting bastions.
Above, the red wall of the fort was
crowned with lofty towers and with pavilions
of white marble, the cupolas of
which seemed of burnished gold. la
this dream of a building, this sudden
embodiment of reminiscences of arabian

tales, Griselda was to learn her
fate.

Staunchly she bore up during the tedious
progress to General Grayburgh's
quarters. Her little band passed the
outer walls, the many courtyards and
groups of buildings which made the fortress
almost a city in itself, and passed
a great but gloomy palace of dark redstone,
into a square surrounded by turreted
pavilions of marble, the columns
and walls inlaid with precious stones.

Here the procession halted at a doorway
in a marble screen. Griselda's bearer
or chief servant of a superior caste —
was just assisting her to alight, when a
young officer in a shabby uniform, with
his arm in a sling, came out, and stood
still, staring at her in stupefied astonishment.


Griselda at once recognised the original
of a photograph in one of her husband's
albums. This worn, tattered-looking being
was a brother officer of Hal's.

I am Mrs Romayne,' she said hurriedly.
' Pray let me see General Gray-burgh
at once.'

Oh,' said the young man, in an indescribable
tone of mingled wonder, sympathy,
horror, and perplexity. He had
snatched off his cap with his left hand,
and stood nervously twitching the fringe
of his puggaree.

The General '^ ' he repeated stupidly,
Of course ; I beg your pardon. I will
see.'

He returned into the cool, dark stone
chamber Griselda saw beyond the doorway.
She stepped to the door, and wondered,
with a dazed feeling, how she was

here. Was it all a dream ? It seemed
but yesterday she was in Feather's Court,
standing in Hal's dressing-room, importuning
Heaven for a sign that her darling
lived. And now she was standing where
he had stood, breathing the hot air he
had breathed, gazing on a strange Eastern
scene familiar to his eyes.

Footsteps, and the lieutenant came
along a passage.

If you will be so good as to come this
way, the General will see you,' he said.
He looked solemn, the tone of his
voice sounded ominous to the faithful
wife.

Still she followed him bravely along a
narrow passage barely lighted by oblong
holes in the thick walls, and stepped
beyond a curtain he lifted respectfully,
standing aside. She found herself in a

darkened chamber, with stone walls, Inlaid
flooring, and a high vaulted roof. At a
rough office table sat General Grayburgh,
leaning his head on his hand.

He came silently towards her, and led
her to a seat. He was frightfully changed.
Thin, haggard, with great bloodshot eyes,
that were like those of a starved, hunted
animal.

Poor, poor child ! ' he stammered, taking
one of her hands in both his trembling
ones. ' And you have come all
this way — '

To find my husband. I cannot but
believe that he is still alive,' said Griselda
boldly, her superhuman courage and
strength reasserting itself. ' Tell me — he
is not dead ! '

Then ' — the General looked at her
with a stare that had a ferocity of grief

in Its wildness. It seemed to Griselda as
if he hardly knew her — as if his senses
left him then and there.

He staggered back, almost fell on the'
rough chair, and hiding his face, he
sobbed — hard, dry sobs.

^^M^

T was a minute of fearful suspense,
that spent by Griselda
in the dimly-lit, solemn stone
chamber in the Indian fortress, while the
evidently broken-down old man, General
Grayburgh, struggled to overcome his
emotion.

Watching a ray of yellow light that
fell upon his head through the dulled
glass lozenges in a high window, upon
the dishevelled grey hair that told tales
of the neglect born of acute personal
suffering, she still hoped.

This could not be merely the grief for
lost comrades. There was a passion in
it — an agony.

Quick as thought, she went across
the slippery inlaid floor to the rough
writing-table which had been knocked
together for the General when he took
up his abode in this, the palace occupied
by generation after generation of native
princes, — and laid her hand lightly on
his arm. His chest moved less convulsively
now. He raised his miserable,
haggard face.

Do you know — all ? ' he asked, fixing
his eyes scrutinizingly upon her.

He is alive — tell me that he is alive ! '
cried Griselda, in a sudden fury of hope,
fear, kneeling down and grasping his
knee.

Yes — yes,' said the General, with

seeming astonishment. * Of course ! I
wrote it to you — that first letter was a
mistake.'

You only wrote he was dead she
cried, tears of joy streaming down her
face. ' Say it again. What does anything
matter now ? Oh thank God !
thank God ! '

The General looked with infinite pity
at the faithful loving wife who had dared
death in its cruellest form to join her
husband, if only his mutilated remains
in the grave ; then he gently assisted
her to rise, placed her in his chair,
fetched a curious old flagon and chased
silver goblet from a marble bracket that
jutted out from the wall, and said, —

Drink a little, my child ; it will do
you good.'

The iced concoction of champagne and

sparkling water which the General's ,
or native butler, had but just
brought from a deep cellar as Griselda
arrived, revived her. She looked

anxiously at the old man as she drank.
He was pacing the chamber, his hands
behind him, as if mentally revolving some
desperate battle or final sortie. He was
really at his wits' end how much or how
little to tell this young wife — who was so
soon to pass the threshold of motherhood
of what had befallen her husband.

You are a good, brave girl, are you
not ? ' he said abruptly at last, dashing
into the subject. ' But, of course, you
have proved it. Well, my first letter
was gospel truth to me when I wrote it.
We seemed to have conclusive evidence
that Romayne was — well, that all was
over with him. Two of his troop had

seen him cut down ; another said — ' He
stopped short. ' However, it is all right
now ; so I will not harrow you with
horrible details. Then they found one of
the rebels with his watch and ring, and
another wearing his uniform. But ' —
here the General paused, and, as a deep
red flush rose to his brow, he stammered
and went on hurriedly, — ' Lady Hermione,
who was with me, would not believe it.
You are aware she had known your
husband's family a long time. She —
she organised a search-party, and a few
days later I heard that, although he was
desperately wounded. there were hopes
of his recovery.'

Oh, where — where is he ? Let me
go to him ! ' implored Griselda.

He is not here,' said the General.
He Is — some miles off In a village which

is fortunately friendly to us. He Is In
one of the best bungalows — the residence
of a Government engineer, who luckily
sent his family home at the very beginning
of the Mutiny.'

But the last news ? '

The General was silent, thought for
moment, then said, —

Colonel Stone has the latest news,
I think. If you will wait here a few
minutes, I will step across the square to
his quarters and he shall come to you.'

Griselda was as mentally dazzled by
this great joy Into which she was suddenly
plunged after the strain she had
almost miraculously undergone, as a blind
man who regains his sight In the broad
daylight. She could hardly bear the
certainty that Hal lived, without some
outbreak of violent emotion. The Idea

that there was something sinister hidden
that she had yet to learn did not occur
to her. With trembling voice she expressed
her gratitude. Of course she
would be only too thankful to see Colonel
Stone — she had heard his name often
from her dear husband's lips. Then she
asked if her maid, who was waiting without,
might come to her.

Certainly,' said the General, going
off drearily.

Presently, In rushed Marshall ; and
in the two women's relief and joy the
positions of mistress and maid were forgotten.
Like sisters they embraced, and
wept, and uttered incoherent exclamations
of gratitude for safety, for peace.

The General, in his white helmet, his
hands thrust Into his pockets, skirted
the sunlit court, and, turning his tired

eyes away from the blinding glare of the

marble pavement, reached the doorway

in the wall. Passion under the magnificent

balcony, above which was a mass

of raised carvings in precious marbles, he

mounted a narrow stairway, and gained

a tower where Colonel Stone lived with

his wife and three children. Exterminate

first room, which, in spite of the

moistened parties, or grass blinds, was

hot and close, — he found the Colonel

seated on the floor, fanning his eldest

little daughter, who lay with her head

on his knee, her pale face thrown back.

Fever ? ' said the General sympathetically.


The Colonel nodded, and pointed to
a chair close by. In these days of trials,
deprivation, and suffering of every sort,
etiquette gave place to the dictates of

VOL. III. o

stricken hearts. There was scant ceremony,
and but Httle talk. Men spoke
by looks and by gestures, which were
only too eloquent, only too suggestive
of a great common woe.

The two officers talked in whispers.

The General told Griselda's tale in a
few words.

Colonel Stone, a grey-haired but still
young man, was the General's staunch
adherent and old attached friend. He
had been present at the late terrible
crisis of General Grayburgh's life, which
occurred shortly after the letter was
written and despatched containing the
announcement of the death of Captain
Romayne. Lady Hermione, who had
accompanied the regiment throughout,
had been much with Captain Romayne.
If she had petted him formerly, she

simply devoted herself entirely to him
now ; and he felt the old affection reviving:.
While he was fiorhtinof against
the rebels, he was succambino^ to a
deadly moral poison ; he went into battle
enervated and hopeless. He told himself
that his desperate feats were despair,
and that he had the luck of those
unfortunate in love. On the very eve
of that fateful skirmish he had been betrayed
into acknowledging to his Circe
that he was won back, that she was
victress, and for the future it would be
Hermione, not Griselda ; but a desperate
revulsion of feeling, when he found
General Grayburgh overwhelmed with
anxiety as to the fate of Colonel Solly,
led him to insist on oroine to the rescue
with a troop of picked men. He left
without a word or a message to Lady

Hermlone, and when he was cut down
and slashed, when he saw an infuriated
Sepoy raising his arm to deal the fatal
blow, he resigned his soul to God with
a great thankfulness that he was spared
saved, blessed.

Lady Hermione., after days of abject
misery alternating with passionate love
and rage, — as only such a woman in such
a position can know, — saw the returning
remnant of Hal's company, and, on hearing
the news of his death, rushed madly
into her husband's office, where he was
closeted with Colonel Stone ; and then
ensued a scene which mentally shattered
General Grayburgh, and filled the domesticated,
gentle Colonel, who had been
a good son to a widowed mother, and
who was a loving father and devoted
husband, with distress. Lady Hermione

flung herself about the room, upbraiding
her husband for having sent the only
being she loved to his death, confessing
their honos mutual love, and her hatred
of the General in that she was doomed
to be his wife. It was worse than a
death - blow to the kind old man ; and
Ashen, after Lady Hermione had started
to find Hal, or his corpse, Colonel Stone
attempted to soothe him by suggestions
that women will confess any imaginary
sin and wickedness in a sudden access
of hysteria, he merely shook his head
and said, —

I ask only one favour of you, Stone ;
never mention her to me again ! '

Colonel Stone did as he was asked.
But now it was the General who entered
upon the subject himself.

After the story of Griseldas journey

and arrival, there was a pause — then the
General forced himself to say, —

Stone, you are experienced — married,
I mean — you have a real wife ; tell me
what to do ? '

I must think,' said the Colonel.

Then there was silence in the hot
room, broken only by the tramp of the
sentry on the ramparts below, by the
moaning of the sick child, by a subdued
singing in the next room, as Mrs Stone
hushed her delicate young infant, born
since the regiment had occupied the
fortress.

After a minute's pause. Colonel Stone
said slowly, —

General, you have recurred to the
painful subject I gave you my word not
to allude to. I am glad you have given
me the opportunity to repeat emphatically

that on that occasion your wife was,
in my opinion, temporarily mad. There
may have' been some sentiment — women
will have their sentiments, especially about
young fellows half their age — but, as I
live, I firmly believe that all else but
the bare sentiment was delirious raving.
I am told that Lady Hermione has not
seen Romayne since he became conscious.*

The General sighed; a dark look passed
across his face.

What I wanted you to decide is
this,' he said. ' What is to be done
with this poor unfortunate girl in her
state ? Dare I let her go to that iniquitous
house, to a man who has been false
to his marriage vows ? Oh, don't interrupt
! Don't defend them ! I asked your
advice for this good faithful wife, not fora
traitress.'

•' Let her go at once — to-day,' said
Colonel Stone, emphatically. ' Meanwhile,
let us make her as welcome as
we can. She must be an extraordinary
woman ! "

She is,' said the General, warmly.
'If all were like her, England would
abound with heroes, and hold her own
against the world. It is the mothers that
make the sons, the wives the husbands.'

But perhaps it might be said by
women, that they are what we make
them,' suggested the Colonel, meekly.

Then he called, and an ayah came
and took his place. He kissed his poor
little daughter, and went down and
across the court to the General's rooms.
Griselda rose and welcomed him ashe
entered. The Colonel was taken
aback as he saw this beautiful fair

creature, who had as it were dropped
from the clouds, radiant with blessedness.
What a cruel shame it would be,
he thought indignantly, if the General
were right, and Hal Romayne was —
yes, there was only one word that
fitted — a blackguard !

He bowed with the deepest respect
over Mrs Romayne's extended hand.

It seems as if the ae^ of miracles
had returned,' he said admiringly. ' To
think of your traversing this wretched
country, going through those crowds
of demons unharmed — it is a miracle!
Heaven grant you have brought a
blessing with you ! We are sadly forlorn
— God-forsaken — here. '

Then he told her how they had
suffered from want of food, want of
the most ordinary comforts — how they

had been parched with thirst, and how
the children had died of fever, so that
scarcely a day passed but there was a
burial In the mosque without the fort
which was used for Christian services.

^ But we shall be able to take care
of you till evening,' he said cheerily,
I will go at once and see about It
Then I will accompany you to the
bungalow where your husband Is, I am
thankful to say, slowly recovering.'

He went away, wondering. After
this journey of Griselda's, he felt he
should never despair, never think the
wildest Idea unreasonable.

He borrowed an ayah from the widow
of a major lately killed, whose grief
had but enhanced her natural sympathies.
He had mattresses placed for
Griselda and her maid In the stone

chamber which the General willingly
resigned to the travellers.

Griselda slept heavily, dreamlessly, and
awoke in the late afternoon to see dusky
forms in strange dresses flitting about
in the half-lif^ht — her servants, brineinof
in dinner. After she and Marshall had
eaten, the General and Colonel Stone
came in ; and presently the little procession,
that had astonished the officers
by its unexpected arrival in the early
morning, left the gates, — watched and
saluted by many who had heard the
story of its brave progress, unscathed,
through untold dangers.

The Colonel walked by Griselda's
litter down the uneven road. Arrived
at the foot of the slope, they proceeded
along the river bank. To their right
towered the grand white pile of Oriental

buildings, the gilded cupolas glistening
in the setting sun — to the left, the
wooded hills above the blood red river
were already in the shadow. Long before
they reached the outlying cantonment
which skirted the native village,
the golden and crimson tints had faded
to dull yellow and pink. Then came a
luminous twilight, in which white objects
seemed brilliant, faces paled, and the
lights they were approaching were glowing
red specks, dazzling as fireflies.
Strange insects buzzed : frosts croaked
in their damp retreats. Then came a
road bordered by scattered bungalows
in their compounds, or rather square
buildings, with verandahs of different
sizes, standing in plots of ground more
or less cultivated, divided from each
other by mud walls or hedges of shrubs.

One of these was more pretentious
than the rest. Graceful trees were
planted to screen the compound from
the road. Two stood as dark sentinels
in the rising moonlight, guarding the
white posts of the open entrance to the
carriage-drive.

Here the Colonel gave the word to
halt.

After the noise of the footsteps had
subsided, they heard faint sounds of
music. Griselda listened, astonished.
Music, here — now ? She held out her
hand silently to the Colonel, alighted,
and listened.

Then she bent her head ; some one
was playing softly, sweetly, sadly, a
favourite sacred song of hers — the holy,
placid melody of Mendelssohn's, known
as ' Ye hills and vales.'

While she was thrilled with emotion,
the Colonel, who was absolutely unmusical,
was angered, disappointed. To
him that music meant fresh entanglement
between the unhappy young officer
and his general's unscrupulous wife.

You had better let me o-q first and
announce you,' he suggested to Griselda,
repressing his indignation.

No, no,' said she. ' Do not think
me ungrateful,' she went on pleadingly
' indeed I shall never forget your kindness
; but — I- feel — I know — it is better
I should go alone.'

The Colonel hesitated a moment. The
idea of the unsuspecting young wife
finding a species of deputy installed
under her husband's roof, shocked him.

I think — indeed I am sure — now I
have heard the music, that Lady Her-mine

Grayburgh is still there. She
found him, you know, and I am told
that he in a great measure owes his life
to her and her maid's nursing.'

He put it as neatly as he could. He
saw a strange smile come upon Griselda's
face, which looked unearthly in the
moonlight ; it reminded him of some
picture he had seen — an angel bearing
a little child to heaven.

I know Lady Hermione,' said Gris-ella
simply. "Colonel Stone, I think
people sometimes can talk better to each
other quite by themselves. You don't
mind?' she added apologetically.

Good heavens, no ! ' exclaimed the
Colonel, started into involuntary energy.
Then, after some conversation as to
what it would be best to do about
the servants, et caetera, he took leave

Griselda.

of Mrs Romayne with the deepest
respect.

She suspects, or knows,' he thought
as he made his way back to the fortress
in the moonlight, ' and behaves Hke a
true unselfish woman. She is a lesson
to any man. What hope ! what faith ! '

'^^^^■-

RISELDA left her party, and
walked up the drive to the
bungalow alone. The moonlight
showed the graceful Indian corn,
the groves of strange dream-like plants,
in their full beauty of form without
colour. For paths, grass, trees, plants,
and bungalow alike, were dazzling, frosted
white. The shadows lay blackly on the
lawn. Near to the house was a well.
She heard the splash of the drops as
they fell from the little chartres, or
earthenware vessels that hung from the

VOL. III. p

wheel, Into the water deep down below.
The open doors showed the lighted
interior.

Stepping lightly Into the verandah,
she came to the long window of the
drawing-room, and stood hesitating —
for there was Lady Hermlone, seated
in a low wicker chair — alone. She was
dressed in white. Her magnificent black
hair was cut close to her head. She
looked pale, thin, miserable, as she sat
still, staring at vacancy.

Lady Hermlone ! '

She sprang up with a terrified stare
at the woman's figure in the doorway
and a stifled ' Ah ! '

I beg your pardon for having
startled you,' said Griselda. * I may
come in, may I not ? I am Griselda
Romaine.'

*Yes,' said Lady Hermione, In a dull,
stupefied way.

During these last days she had ceased
to care, almost to feel. She would have
welcomed any violent change, however
disastrous. There had been moments
when she thought that, if an overwhelming
force of the frantic hordes
were to break in upon the fort and
surrounding villages, she would awake
from this death in life with a fierce rejoicing
at the chance of a swift martyrdom
which might hurl her into a better
state. She told herself she had staked
her all — and that she had lost.

This sudden appearance of Griselda
was a slight relief. She would be free
to go — she knew not whither — to do
any desperate deed — she knew not what.

You were quite right to dare the

journey and to come, Mrs Romayne,'
she said in a dull, unemotional way.
Your husband mistook me for you
during his delirium, and, when he came
to his senses, was so disappointed not
to find his beloved wife, that he turned
his face to the wall and refused to be
comforted. Finding my presence unpleasant
to him, I have kept away
since then, only superintending the
nursing. He is orettino^ on well.'

By some subtle sympathy Griselda
knew this woman had dared all for
Hal, and he had repaid her — thus !
The tears rushed to her eyes. She
seized Lady Hermione's hand and
kissed it.

It was you who saved him,' she
said brokenly. * My poor thanks — what
are they ? God will repay you — you,

who have done the utmost one can do
for a friend — you, who have risked your
life for his ! '

'Life?' said Lady Hermione bitterly,
while her hand lay cold in Griselda's.
What a poor thing is life ! It is the
happy who value it ; but to the unhappy
it is a curse ! There is not much credit
in flinging away a curse, is there?' she
went on, with a sneering smile and a
flash of her dark eyes. ' But come to
your husband — or will you have wine —
food — before you go ? '

Griselda, affected by the despair of the
woman who, in her eyes — whatever she
might have done — was the preserver of
her Hal's life, briefly told her tale, then
followed Lady Hermione to her husband's
room.

At the door she halted. In her mingled

emotion this was an awful moment. He
had left her in full life, in bright — to her
almost glorious — manhood. What pitiful
wreck, what miserable remnant of a
human being lay beyond that closed door,
and was still her own husband, her childhood's
love, the little Prince who stepped
down into the orchard to her years ago
and took possession of her life ?

And, if it had not been for this devoted,
if reckless woman, there would have been
no Hal — only a grave, and a memory.

With a sudden passion of gratitude,
she held out her hand.

Let us go together, she said, with a
pleading tender look.

Lady Hermione shook her head A.vith
a bitter smile.

He must know — he must be told he
owes his life to you,' began Griselda.

Then suddenly she flung her arms
round the suffering beautiful creature,
and kissed her on the lips.

Thus Hals first kiss should be to
them both.

I will come back,' she said. ' Dear
Lady Hermione, I must see you soon
again ; ' then she opened the door and
went in boldly.

A dimly-lighted room ; a bed in the
coolest part, close under the swaying
frilled board, the punkah ; the odours of
pungent restoratives and disinfectants ; a
soldier sitting by the bedside.

He rose as she entered, saluted her,
and stared with amazement. But this
Corporal Haines, one of the young
captain's faithful military nurses, knew
without much thought that this could
be no other than the wife the sick man

had craved for with a weary persistence
painful to witness.

Captain,' he said cautiously, bending
over the form lying — oh, so still ! —
stretched upon the bed, ' here's a surprise
for you — a friend from home!'

He motioned to Griselda to stand back
in the shadow ; then he raised the sick
man In his arms

Could that be Hal — the thin livid
features, with a disfiguring scar across
one cheek — the great piteous eyes — all
the curls gone, and in their place bandages,
plaster — that white empty sleeve
rolled up ?

The loving wife sickened. How she
stepped across the room, knelt down,
and took him in her arms she could not
have told. Perhaps for a few moments
she tainted — she did not know. The

world seemed to sink away — the world,
with its anger, cruelty, revenge, turmoil
to sink away as the flood may suddenly
have stayed, sunk, and disappeared at
the voice of God — and they two, after
strup-o-le, dance-er, left alone, clinging to
each other as on some rock — saved.

Hal made slow but sure progress — the
new Captain Romayne ! Even Griselda
sometimes wondered and felt a sense of
unreality when she thought of the gay
impetuous Hal, and then looked at the
delicate invalid with the solemn eyes
that had such an unearthly searching
look in them

What the Captain wants now is
rousing, Mrs Romayne,' said the regimental
doctor who had ' patched up ' the
'ugly job,' as he had called Hal's casein

its beginning. 'If it were only
anxiety, even annoyance — Is he always
like this ? Does he never talk of the
past, or ' — here the doctor hesitated,
but only for a moment — ' of future
hopes that should be cheering to a man,
should be a great object to live for?'

Griselda blushed, but this was no time
for feminine sensibility.

Not one word,' she said. *' He is
very good, wonderfully patient. I read
to him a little. But he only talks of
the small matters of the day itself — of
the Indian servants, their ways, the
weather, things like those. And, whenever
I turn my back for a moment, he
relapses into that dreamy state.'

I know — as if he were looking into
another world with those big eyes of his.
I've seen him. Of course, when you can

take him home, it will be all right — change
of scene and the sea-vovao^e. But that
can't be quite yet. Meanwhile I must
think of something.'

The doctor had thought already. He
knew the scandal about Lady Hermione.
It had grieved him, as it had grieved many
who where attached to the General, while
they had liked ' young Romayne,' and
admired the beautiful lady who had so unfortunately
fallen into hero-worship. He
attributed Hal's melancholy to a certain
remorse and a certain sense ol dishonour.
Now, as the doctor said to himself plausibly,
it was quite right for the young
fellow to regret having made mischief
between the General and his wife, so
long as the mischief was there. But
really, as everything was going well
now that his wife was here,

and he and she on the most loving
terms, while Mrs Romayne and Lady
Hermione corresponded or exchanged
messages daily, and the General seemed
quite content — a new man indeed — it
was high time that disagreeable bygones
should be bygones.

We should do with our mistakes
as with our dead leaves,' he went
on to himself, as he proceeded to
General Grayburgh's quarters to ask
him to come and see Hal. ' Malodorous
in themselves, they become almost
salutary in a bonfire.'

The General and his wife were reconciled.
And it came about thus. Lady
Hermione had remained in the bungalow
a few da's, at Griselda's instance. And
during those days she learnt the beauty of

meekness, the divinity ot forgiveness. In
the long talks between the two women,
Hermione found that there was scarcely
anything in her past relations with Captain
Romayne that was unknown to
his devoted wife, and that, without
doubt, whatever Griselda knew Griselda
had forgiven. During those days of utter
wretchedness, when Hal refused to see
her, would taste nothing her hands
had touched, and would shrink at the
very mention of her name, she had
been able to think of little but the
ofreat lost tenderness that had hitherto
come between her and the slightest
annoyance, — the vast protecting love
of her outraged husband.

General Gravburo^h was a o^reat, brood
man. Even on the terrible niorht, when in
her madness she had flung herself out of

his heart and outraged his honour, she
admired the nobility of his anger ; he had
made no expostulation, he had merely held
out his hand with a gesture of horror, and
had said one word, — ' Go ! '

During those calm hours in the
drawing-room with Griselda, when they
talked in a low voice while Hal slept in
his sick-room, she made a resolution.

If I do not get his pardon,' she
thought, ' at least I will ask it'

So one evening after she and Gris-ella
had dined, and Griselda had left
her to go to Hal, she went to her
room, put on a long dust-cloak and a
veil, and walked to the fort.

She did not know the pass word, and
the sentry hesitated to admit her. This
hesitation stung her to the quick, and
she imperiously flashed a well-known

ring of General Grayburgh's before his
eyes.

You forget yourself,' she said proudly,
and passed on.

Armed with this spirit of pride, she
gained his quarters, passed the sentry
there, and, flinging aside the curtain of
that stone chamber which was fraught
with so many strange troublous memories,
found herself standing face to
face with her gaunt, stern husband.

He rose as he saw her. They stood
gazing at each other for a few moments.
Then she said, with a desperate humility,
which was the subtlest pride —

I have come to ask your pardon
before I go away for ever.'

The General looked at her in wonder
then his head fell on his breast.

Oh, you poor, poor woman ! ' he

said falteringly. ' You come to me, a
man ! You ask me to right your soul 1
Go to your God ; he can forgive you —
not I, nor any man that has ever lived ! *

Then he went away into a corner,
where the rays of the lamps did not
reach, and leaned against a marble
pillar in his access of misery. Softened,
penitent, she followed him and fell weeping
against his shoulder.

You must forgive me first ! ' she sobbed.

And he took her into his arms, more
wretched than ever, and forgave her.

Poor girl ! I was too

old,' he said brokenly. I had no right
to bind you down.'

She had conquered. And the General
felt that he had lost many battles and
had been defeated otherwise, time aftertime,
elsewhere than in the field during

his long life ; but this was the first
occasion that he felt the utter littleness
of human glory, the utter abasement of
his erring human soul.

A few months later, Feather's Court,
in the gay beauty of the young summer,
was the scene of great rejoicing.

The new peal of bells presented to
the church by Hal as a thank-offering
were chiming merrily. For to-day, the
lusty boy who first saw light in the
Indian bungalow where his father had
struggled back to life, was to be publicly
received into the Church by his delighted
grandfather — whose first service this
would be since his return to England,
convalescent.

The new heir to the Romaynes was

a peculiar child, with fine, deep eyes.
VOL. III. Q

He was six months old that day, when
he sat up in his mother's arms and
looked steadily at the clergyman who
was admitting him into the Church.

Griselda had a new hope in this
world. What mattered the sad stormy
past ? Its dead were buried. This child,
this son of hers, had given her a new
life. She had awakened into a new
beauty ; she had at last something fresh
and pure from the hand of God to
live for.

Patience was over ! Now came the
reign of hopeful joy.

THE END.

COLSTON AND COMPANY PRINTERS, EDINBURGH,
