i tmmnin,^ J 1 J jgaisgggigBgr^iggs^'^wa

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

8X3

Mei

/

f^^

r

f

OR,

UNCONSCIOUS INFLUENCE

BY

E. A. DILLWYN,

AUTHOR OF 'THE REBECCA RIOTER' AND 'CHLOE Ruelle.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

Tinsel BROTHERS,

CATHERINE STREET, STRAND,

LONDON.

1883.

wall rights reserved J\

CONTENTS,

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

ENTOMOLOGICAL, I

Chapter.

INTRUDERS, iS

CHAPTER III.

A FUNCTION AT CWM-EITHIN, 28

CHAPTER IV.

A PIG HUNT, 39

CHAPTER V.

IMOGEN'S IDEAS, 55

Chapter.

AN HEIRESS, 79

CHAPTER VI I.

PAGE

A BURGLARY, 93

CHAPTER VIII.

AN ARISTOCRATIC TOADY, . . Io

CHAPTER IX.

IMOGEN HEARS OF IT, 1 39

CHAPTER X.

AN INSPECTION OF FINGERS, 157

CHAPTER XI.

THE SUPERIORITY OF RED INDIANS, . . . Ins

CHAPTER XII.

A COTTAGE VISIT, 194

CHAPTER XIII.

A FRITILLARY, 219

OR,

Unconscious INFLUENCE.

CHAPTER I.

ENTOMOLOGICAL.

T is about half-past nine o'clock
on a fine night early in September,
and the darkness is illuminated
outside the front door of Mr Rays's
house, Llwyn-yr-Allt, by the flashing lamps
of a couple of carriages that are waiting
to convey that gentleman and his guests
to a ball at the neighbouring town of
Cwm-Eithin.

VOL. L A

Do look at those two little lights glimmering
in the plantation ! ' exclaimed Lady
Elise Bolyn, as she issued from the house,
cloaked and shawled, and was assisted by
her host to enter one of the carriages.
Whatever are they ? '

Oh, they're only Ralph and Imogen's
dark lanterns,' returned Mr Rhys. ' My
boy and girl have got a fit of rabid entomology
on them, and persecute the poor
moths and butterflies by night and day :
and that's what takes them out now.
They're a regular pair of wild Indians, I
often think. Is there room for another in
this carriage ? No — not comfortably, I
think. Ethel and I and Sir Charles
Dover will follow in the next, then.'

So saying, he proceeded to offer his
arm to his niece, the great heiress, Ethel
Carton. The carriage doors were shut —
the footmen jumped up beside the drivers,
and away rolled the ball - goers to their
entertainment, leaving Mr Rhys's son and

daughter, aged respectively nearly eighteen
and nearly seventeen, to pursue their occupation
of encouraging dissipated habits
amongst the moths of the neighbourhood
by the process denominated 'sugaring.'

For this purpose, the entomologist sallies
forth shortly before dusk, and establishes
moth public-houses by smearing trunks of
trees with an intoxicating and sticky compound
of beer, rum, brown sugar, and treacle
boiled together. When it gets dark he
equips himself with a gauze net and a lantern,
and visits these ' sugars,' where he
probably finds some thirsty moths sucking
in the liquor greedily, and a few more
lying on the ground below in a state of
thorough intoxication. To catch these is,
of course, easy, for he has only to pop
whichever of them he wants into a pill-box
or bottle, with a drop of chloroform.
But there are others whose capture will be
less inglorious — moths that arrive at the
delicious tap at the same moment as the

collector, dart shyly off at the approach of
his light, and need a quick hand and eye
to follow their flight with the lantern, and
dash the net over them before they are
lost in the surrounding darkness. Whether
Sir Wilfred Lawson and his teetotallers
would consider ' sugaring ' as a strictly
moral proceeding may perhaps be doubted,
but Ralph and Imogen Rhyshad no scruples
on that score ; and on the night of the opening
of this story they were enjoying themselves
thoroughly amongst the * sugars,'
whilst their rival moth-hunter, the nightjar,
whirred sociably about close to them,
and thought none the worse of a moth asa
delicate morsel, when it was full of the
heady, sweet liquor to be imbibed at these
drinking-places.

The brother and sister had seen the
carriages come to the door to convey the
ball-goers to their destination, and had
suspended their operations to watch the
departure of the party. The bushes and

<b

grass were dripping from a heavy dew, and
to defy the wet the entomologists were
dressed in Welsh flannel, corduroys, thick
boots, etc., which rough and carelessly paton
costumes were in strong contrast with
the silks, laces, jewels, flowers, and altogether
elaborate get-up of the gentlemen
and ladies starting to the Cwm-Eithin ball.
Well aware were the boy and girl of their
own untidiness, and much inclined to glory
in it, and to look down contemptuously
upon a daintiness of attire which was
associated in their minds with the restraints
of high civilisation and the artificial life
of society. Restraints of all kinds they
detested, and were of opinion that the
greatest happiness to be found upon earth
consisted in being at liberty to run wild
from morning to night. Both alike were
disposed to be fiercely intolerant of fashion
and conventionalities ; but though this
feeling was stronger and more active in
Imogen than in Ralph on the whole, yet in

her it was at times modified by a mingled
sentiment of curiosity about and hankering
after the mysterious epoch of her Hfe which
lay close before her, called 'coming out.'

The time when a young lady is first
regularly brought into society is naturally
an era of great importance to her ; and
there is hardly any girl who does not
speculate to some extent beforehand as to
what she will find on the other side of the
boundary, when she shall be emancipated
from school-room thraldom, and enter the
world inhabited by her elders. Of this
world Imogen had, of course,, already seen
something. But as yet her insight into it
had only been from, as it were, an outsider's
point of view. When older girls.
who had crossed the Rubicon, had admitted
her into their company, she had suffered
from a shy dread of being thought to wish
to thrust herself out of her proper sphere,
and had never been able wholly to divest
herself of the feeling of being with them

ion

sufferance only, and to some extent an
intruder. But she knew she would regard
the matter very differently when she should
be * come out,' and entitled to take her
place amongst them by right. Her
mauvaise Honte would vanish away of itself
as soon as she should be conscious of
being no longer a mere ignorant postulant,
but a free member of her order, and equal
to all others thereunto belonging.

In some ways, therefore, she certainly
looked with satisfaction at the prospect of
entering speedily into possession of the
full privileges which were her birthright.
But then assail she would feel a vao^ue
fear lest at the same time she might find
herself deprived of any part of that independence
which seemed to have penetrated
to the very core of her existence,
to have become a necessary part of her,
and to be almost dearer to her than anything
else. She would declare that no
chains would ever be to her taste, however

richly ornamented and softly padded
they might be, and that it was better to
be free than to be broken into harness of
any kind.

Next time a ball's coming off, I suppose
I shall be going, too,' she said, as she
watched the starting of the carriages ; and
then she gave a little sigh, and wondered
what made her do so.

Ah, and precious slow you'll find it, I
expect,' returned Ralph. ' Just see if you
don't get bored to death In no time amongst
all the nobs, and then you'll be ready to
give your eyes to be skylarking out here
instead ! Do just look at all those swell
clothes being bundled into the trap ! Do
you think you'll like being got up within
an inch of your life, like those poor coves
are } Fancy seeing a great big moth that
you didn't know fly past, and you not
daring to stir after it for fear of rumpling
your hair, or spoiling your shoes, or disarranging
the creases of your dress, or

some rot of that kind ! Pah ! I never did
see anything so senseless as what women
wear of evenings — gowns with nothing
over their shoulders, so as to catch their
deaths of cold, if possible.'

'Isn't only at night people wear such
silly, good-for-nothing clothes either,' replied
his sister. ' They're every bit as
foolish about their day things, and always
will find some reason, that's no reason at
all, why anything that's sensible and fit to
keep out wet or stand a bramble shouldn't
be worn ; either it's not the fashion, or not
becoming, or different from what other
people wear, or something absurd of that
kind that doesn't really matter one pin.
There goes Ethel getting in now ; I know
her by the opera cloak. Did you see
what splendid jewels she had on to-night ?
She's got such a lot, and all so handsome
that she always cuts out everyone else in
that line wherever she goes ; I suppose
she will to-night as usual.'

And quite right that she should, too
observed Ralph. ' What's the fun of being
such an heiress as she is, and rolling inriches,
if you don't show off your tin a bit
sometimes ? She isn't half a bad sort,
Ethel isn't, and not more than four or
five years older than me either. I
declare, if she weren't my cousin, I
shouldn't at all mind having a try for
her myself by-and-by ; but it don't do
to marry one's first cousin unluckily, you
see.'

Not half a bad sort, indeed ! ' exclaimed
Imogen indignantly, for she had been
smitten with a romantic admiration for
Ethel Carton, and resented Ralph's tone
of cool patronage of her idol. ' Why,
she's just the very nicest girl in the world,
and you talk as if it would be condescension
on your part to so much as look at
her ! I do think your impudence beats
everything.'

Ralph chuckled. Knowing his sister's

(^

penchant, he had intended to excite her
ire, and had succeeded.

"Thought I'd get a rise out of you
there, Im,' he returned. ' Well, there go
the carriages off" at last. I wonder if the
people in 'em are thinking of us at this
moment, as we are of them ? '

The odds are they don't think about
us at all,' answered Imogen. * If they did,
probably they'd think us '* young barbarians
all at play," in their benighted
state of ignorance as to what constitutes
true enjoyment. Hie! there goes a big
moth ! '

Dashing off after the insect at full speed
she got another glimpse of it, made a
swoop at it with the net, and at the
same moment rolled over into a small
open ditch that lay just beneath her feet.
Her upset was scarcely to be wondered at,
seeing that the whole plantation was a network
of open ditches, which it was not
always easy to avoid even in broad daylight.

The sudden disappearance of the
light she carried informed Ralph of what
had happened to her.

There you go, stupid ! ' shouted he,
with a feeling of righteous indignation lest
the fall should have caused the loss of
the moth. ' I thought you knew your
geography better than that by this time !
Have you got him ? '

Not quite sure, but I think so,' she
answered, struggling up out of the ditch.
'Wasn't forgetting my geography that
upset me, for I remembered well enough
the ditch was there ; only I should inevitably
have lost him if I'd shirked a cropper
just then. Give us a light, now, and let's
see if he's in ; ha ! yes — I spot him herein
the tip of the net among some old
thistle-heads.'

What is he — new, or not ? ' asked
Ralph anxiously.

I think so, but can't quite make out,'
she replied, after inspecting the capture

carefully through the transparent gauze of
which the net was formed. ' He's some
kind of fine big Noctua at any rate, and
we'll keep him.'

So saying, she proceeded to transfer the
insect to a pill-box, with a small dose of
chloroform.

Mark ! ' shouted Ralph, leaping up into
the air, and striking wildly with his net at
a great Geometer flying swiftly past overhead.
* Bother ! I've muffed him, and
he looked rather a good one, too ! He
was making for the scabious-bed, I daresay
let's go there — we haven't been thereat
all to-night yet.'

This scabious-bed was a favourite haunt
of moths. It was situated in a low-lying,
swampy field, and near by bloomed wealth
of thistles, honeysuckles, and other sweet-scented
flowers beloved of moths, who
flitted to and fro in numbers, and stayed
their flight now here, now there, to buzz
lovingly in the very heart of some plant,

and sip its honey. But with the advent of
Ralph and Imogen the blissful enjoyment
of the insects was at an end. Shining
lights betrayed their presence ; nets
snatched them up ; they were held close
to the lanterns and examined critically ;
some were set free again, and others kept,
according to their respective rarity, and to
how many of their kind had already been
secured for the collection. The sport went
on merrily, for the two young people
deemed chasing rapid-winged moths by
lantern-light amongst ditches, trees, bushes,
and brambles a most exciting and fascinating
occupation, and recked nothing of
what bruises and scratches might ensue as
they rushed hither and thither in the soft,
odoriferous, delicious air of the summer
night. Many moths have a way of flight
that is peculiar to themselves, and easily to
be recognised by the practised collector,
who is thus saved from wasting time in
pursuing the commonest ones. But the

most experienced entomologist may be
deceived at times ; and even Ralph or
Imogen were now and again led away into
hunting a Plush Gamma, or some equally
common insect, which seemed to have
suddenly assumed an entirely new kind of
fight for the express purpose of annoying
them. For how provoking it was when a
brilliant catch had terminated an exciting
chase, to find nothing in the net but some
worthless moth ; and how unmercifully was
the captor sure to be chaffed for having
been thus taken in like a mere tyro ! At
last the two hunters thought it time to give
up sport for that night, and returned to the
house dirty, wet, and a little bit tired, but
thoroughly healthy and happy. There the
contents of the numerous pill-boxes and
bottles were emptied out, and the chloroform
- stupefied insects were inspected.
Those thought worth keeping were shut
up again with an extra dose of the anaesthetic
to put a painless end to their

existence, and the others were turned out
into the fresh air to recover themselves
and fly away at their leisure.

I wonder how they feel in the morning,'
remarked Ralph, as he put a batch
of those not wanted out of window ;
they must be uncommonly chippy and
headachy, I expect, and not in any great
hurry to get up. By-the-bye, we've got to
make an early start tomorrow morning, if
we mean to have a go at those tench and
eels at Gwern pond ; it's quite a mile and
a-half off, and we ought to be there at
daybreak.'

'Ah! yes,' returned Imogen, yawning.
We must mind not to oversleep ourselves ;
we ought to try and wake at about two or
three o'clock, and whichever wakes first
will have to call the other.'

Well, then, we'd best be off to bed
now, or there'll be precious little chance
of either of us waking,' replied Ralph.
I say, just think of those poor fellow-creatures



of ours shut up in a stuffy,
hot room at this moment, in nasty,
uncomfortable, dry clothes, and having
to do the civil no end. Don't you pity
them ? / do.'

VOL. I.

B

INTRUDERS.

MOGEN woke early next morn-nor
with a vao^ue consciousness
that there was some special
reason for arousing herself instead of
settling off to sleep again, as she felt inclined
to do. With a heroic effort she
overcame the temptation to give way to
sleepiness, and began trying to recollect
what it was that had made her want to
wake early. The projected fishing expedition
soon came to her mind, and she remembered,
too, that Ralph would have to
be called. It was pitch dark, so she struck

a match and looked at her watch. Only
half-past one, and that was still too soon to
be moving ; so for another hour she allowed
herself to sleep highly and fitfully, occasionally
waking up altogether and looking at
the watch.

Even the most energetic of mortals cannot
tear themselves from their couches while
still sleepy, without a pang. But when half-past
two had arrived, she hardened her
heart, jumped out of bed rubbing her eyes
vigorously, and emerged into the passage
without troubling to carry a candle,
as she knew every inch of the house too
well to need one. Groping her way to
Ralph's room, she went in and shook him
till he was too thoroughly awake for thereto
be much danger of a relapse into slumber,
and then returned to her own room to
plunge into a big bath of cold water, and
perform her toilette. This was quickly
accomplished, and when she issued forth
into the passage for the second time, she

was attired In a strong serge dress and
jacket, Welsh flannel petticoat turned up
at the bottom with waterproof lining, thick
greased boots that had never known blacking,
and regrets, i.e., short leather gaiters
reaching from the top of the boot to halfway
up the leg. It was a costume that
was, no doubt, more serviceable than
elegant ; but it was eminently workmanlike,
and showed clearly that its wearer
meant business in the matter of wet, mud,
and briars.

The ball-goers had returned early from
Cwm-EIthln, and were already in bed, so the
house was perfectly still as she proceeded
gently downstairs to join her brother, who
had already got out the fishing rods and
tackle, and was waiting for her.

I say, Im,' whispered he, ' I'm frightfully
hungry ; ain't you ? '

Yes, pretty well,' she answered in the
same tone. * Let's go to the larder and
see what's to be had there.'

To the larder, therefore, they went, and
found disappointment in store for them.
They had fully anticipated that the door
would be locked and the key taken away,
but had never doubted that they would be
able to rout it out from wherever it might
be hidden, as they had done on sundry
occasions previously.

The cook, however, had been too many
for them this time. She strongly objected
to their surreptitious visits to the provisions,
and had endeavoured to baffle
them by concealing the larder key in all
kinds of unlikely and out-of-the-way places.
But as she found that they invariably unearthed
it from the remotest hiding-places
she could devise for it in the kitchen, she
had at last determined to secure herself
from future incursions by taking it to her
own room with her. This was a measure
which she only adopted unwillingly as a last
resort, because, as no power on earth
would ever have made her think she could

sleep safely In any house unless her bedroom
door were locked or bolted, it followed
that when she kept the larder key
in her own possession at night, she was
obliged in the morning to leave her comfortable
bed in order to hand it out to the
kitchenmald earlier than was at all agreeable
to her. But even this hardship she
would endure sooner than not preserve her
larder inviolate.

Wot bizness has they young limbs got
to come a-helping of themselves to things
in my pitching in the middle of the night ? '
grumbled she to the butler. ' But I 'ont
put up with it — that I 'ont ! To 'ave a
missis come in once a day at a regular
hour, as one can prepare and 'ave things
straight for, is quite as much as any
cook's temper can be expected to stand —
and more too, sometimes — and I'm blessed
if I bears more hinkisltions than that into
my privet affairs. So there ! '

The hungry intruders, however, had no

suspicion of this malice on the cook's
part, and began ransacking the kitchen
in search of the precious key.

Have you looked under the mat In
the passage ? ' asked Ralph ; ' it's put
there sometimes.'

Not there now though,' returned Imogen,
lifting the mat and shaking it. ^ Try
if it's in the drawer of the pepper-grinder
I found it there once. Or perhaps It
may be hanging under the round-towel in
the scullery — or else stuck upon the ledge
under the tap In the sink.'

But after these and various other possible
hiding-places had been explored in
vain, the invaders came to the unwelcome
conclusion that some new and undiscoverable
receptacle for the key had been hit
upon. In foraging, however, they had
come upon the relics of a peach tart that
had been put Into a cupboard and forgotten,
and with this they managed to
take the rough edge off their appetites.

As the last crumbs of the tart were being
demolished, Imogen suddenly remembered
that they had not provided bait for the
fishing the evening before.

Whatever shall we do about bait ? ' she
exclaimed ; ' we ought to have got it ready
last night. There isn't half such a good
place for getting it down at Gwern as
there is here, but Fm afraid it's too dark
yet to see to dig worms. Shall we wait a
bit till it's lighter, before we start, and get
the bait first 1 '

Oh, bother! No ; I vote we don't do
that,' answered Ralph. ' I'm not going to
be dawdling about doing nothing after I've
had the grind of getting up, I can tell you !
Tell you what ! there's crams of worms in
the stables' manure heap, and if we take
our nothing lanterns there, I back it we'll
be able to get as many as we want in no
time.'

This seemed a good idea. The lanterns
were fetched and lit, and then the

brother and sister went into the smoking-room,
which was on the ground floor,
opened the window, and jumped over the
sill and out into the fresh, sweet morning
air.

Outside the window lurked a man to
whom their exit at this unexpected hour
caused considerable discomposure. When
he heard them unbolting the fastenings
inside he drew back hastily behind a projecting
corner of the house and crouched
down, making himself as small as possible,
and wondering who they were and what
could bring them there at so strange a
time. What should he do if they chanced
to turn their lanterns so that the light
should reveal his presence } Should he
try to account for being there ? or should
he take flight ? or — the look on his face
was not a pleasant one as he contemplated
the third alternative that occurred to him,
and felt for the butt of a revolver that was
in his pocket.

His alarm was needless. The couple
closed the window after them, and walked
off happily towards the stables, talking and
laughing as they went, and all unsuspicious
of danger, though they passed so close to
the man that he could have touched them
by putting out his hand.

A boy and girl, by Jove ! ' muttered
he, staring into the darkness after them
with the utmost astonishment ; ' I can tell
that by their voices, though I can't see
them. What can they be up to ? Their
going out is a good job for me anyhow,
for as they've left the window unfastened,
I shan't need to use any tools
to get in.'

Just then Imogen was laughing at some
small joke, and as he listened to the
joyous, innocent laughter, his face softened,
and a half-wistful expression came into
it. The sound still ran In his ears after
she had gone out of hearing. There was
something in her tone that affected him

strangely, reminding him of the time when
he, too, had been unstained by evil, and
making him feel almost ashamed, in spite
of himself, of the difference by which he
was now removed poles apart from such
as Imogen.

But he despised that feeling as mere
sentimental weakness ; and as soon as
the coast was clear, he lost no time inlifting
up the sash by which she and her
brother had issued, climblnor on to the
sill, and so by stealth making an entrance
into the house.

MS^f^%L

A FUNCTION AT CWM-EITHIN.

HE day on which this story
opens had been a glorious one
for Cwm-EIthIn, there having
taken place a grand Inauguration of
something or other which was, for the
time, regarded by the townspeople as of
first-rate Importance. It was Indispensable
to their well-being, would develop
their trade, ensure their lasting prosperity,
supply all future needs, put their town on
a par with every metropolis In Europe,
be a magnificent success, a beautiful object
to behold ; the only wonder was how the
town had ever managed to get on at all

without It. In a couple of years again It
would probably be very differently considered,
as by that time those who now
upheld it would have got some fresh
maggot into their heads, have tired of
this present fancy, and become supremely
indifferent to it, or perhaps have taken to
grumble at it as a mistake, a failure, or an
eyesore, which was far from impossible.
But just now any suggestion of such
a change of opinion would have been
scouted as absurd. There was a regular

o

epidemic of admiration for, and intense
excitement about the all-important subject,
an unlimited amount of fuss and
expense was bestowed upon it, and the
day of its inauguration was made the
occasion of extraordinary demonstrations
of rejoicing.

There was an imposing procession, a
ceremony, military escorts, bands, a public
luncheon, toasts, flags, bell-ringing, firing
of guns, singing, illuminations, fireworks.

and enthusiasm. All classes with any
claim to consideration, were represented
at the function, — lords, commons, clergy,
soldiers, sailors, volunteers, dissenters,
railway directors, friendly societies, and
tradespeople. Immense efforts had been
made to secure the presence of as many
notables and school children as possible —
the former to make speeches, be gazed at,
and regaled upon salmon, chickens, pineapples,
champagne, and similar delicacies ;
and the latter to swell monster choruses
in the open air, and enjoy the magnificent
feast of one plum-bun apiece. Some magnates
of very first-rate importance, indeed,
had been induced to attend from a distance,
and all local grandees were present as a
matter of course. Wealth in every shape
and form was conspicuous in all the best
places, whilst poverty was graciously permitted
to stand and stare wherever the
police thought It would not be in the way
of Its betters ; and might further look

forward to the high privilege of sharing
with them in bearing the burden of additional
taxation, which would fall upon all
ratepayers as a necessary consequence of
the costly decorations and entertainments
in which the town thought fit to indulge.

When the question of how much money
should be spent upon the proceedings had
been mooted, one or two individuals had
been daring enough to wish to reduce the
amount proposed, but had been promptly
snubbed into silence. They had been
told to remember the enormous advantages
that were going to accrue to the town ;
they were reminded, too, that there would
be large profits to be made out of an influx
of visitors consuming quantities of meat,
bread, wine, beer, poultry, milk, butter,
etc., and were told that what with that,
and the high prices at which seats in
windows and gardens would be sure tolet,
whence views of the procession, ceremony,
or fireworks could be had, the townspeople

would be easily able to recoup
themselves for the extra rates they might
have to pay. In reply to this, It had been
urged that such arguments were not exactly
applicable to the case of anyone who did
not sell provisions, or whose house happened
to be situated In some out-of-the-way
back street through which the procession
would not pass, and whence no
view of anything attractive was to be
had. On this the objectors had been told
severely that a selfish, mean, grudging
spirit was most unbecoming to great occasions
like the present one ; that It would
be ridiculous to allow the wishes of a
whole community to be interfered with
on account of a few petty Interests ; and
that minor considerations must always
give way to what was for the good of
the majority. And as the final decision
of the matter rested with municipal rulers
and influential merchants, whose shops
and residences lined the route of the procession,

and who were sure of reaping an
abundant harvest from visitors to the
town, It need hardly be said that the
open - handed way of looking at things
prevailed, and that public money was
lavished in the most liberal manner.

The day's festivities culminated in a
ball, on an unusually large scale, given
to the town and its distinguished visitors
by the borough member. Sir Cadwallader
Gough. It was given in the Town Hall,
as being the only building big enough to
accommodate the crowd of guests, who
came in shoals — and their best clothes.
Everyone was asked who had the slightest
pretension to local standing — even though
it might be no more than was afforded by
the possession of a good-sized shop ; and
tradespeople and nobodies had the gratification
of finding themselves, for once in
their lives at least, fellow - guests with
individuals of exalted rank. A ball to
so large and mixed a collection of people
VOL. I. c

naturally partook more of the nature of
a state function than a dancing assembly.
Everyone's chief object was to show themselves
and their smart attire, to stare at
everyone else, and to enjoy the supper,
which was understood to be going to be
very well done indeed,' and was consequently
looked forward to as one of the
most important features in the evening's
proceedings.

Under these circumstances, terpsichorean
twisting and twirling became quite a
secondary consideration, and there was a far
greater number of spectators than of dancers.

The company occupied itself chiefly In
promenading solemnly round the hall,
criticising one another's appearance, discussing
the events of the day, and displaying
their wit by ridiculing the speeches
that had been made — taking due precautions,
of course, to ascertain before doing
so, that the speakers and their families
were safely out of earshot.

Those who considered themselves as
the creme de la crane of the ball found
quizzing the vulgarians ' a very amusing
occupation. Anything in dress, style, or
manner that was at all different from
what they were accustomed to see, was
unhesitatingly condemned as vulgar, absurd,
and outlandish. Satirical remarks
upon the lower orders were received as
the height of wit. This was quickly
perceived by that acute observer, Mr
John Scriven, who had come with the
Duke of Clanthistle's party, and thereupon
he devoted himself for the rest of
the evening to hunting out peculiarities
that had, as yet, passed unnoticed, and
pointing them out to the fashionables
and aristocrats with whom he consorted,
pluming himself as greatly on being the
first to draw attention to any oddity, as
though he had achieved some clever and
valuable discovery.

The objects quizzed, meanwhile, blissfully

Ignorant of the sport they were affording,
gazed to their heart's content on the great
people to whose company they had the
felicity of being for once admitted on
apparent terms of equality ; and pointed
out to one another any of the swells
whom they knew by sight, with a proud
consciousness of the extra importance
which that knowledge conferred on them
in the eyes of their own set. What
dignity did it not give to be able to
say, — ' Oh ! that young lady with the
magnificent jewels is Miss Carton, the
great heiress, whose jewellery is so celebrated,
you know ; ' or else, * the tall
gentleman with a short chin and grey
hair Is the Marquis of Scilly,' etc.

Thus both upper and lower classes gave
mutual satisfaction in one way or other,
and proved the truth of Miss Burney's
saying In Cecilia, that ' Pleasure given in
society, like money lent In usury, returns
with Interest to those who dispense It.'

And mixing freely amongst all in the
throng, moving hither and thither with
a smile and pleasant word for everyone,
affable, genial, agreeable alike to high and
low, were to be seen local M.p's and
their wives, and whoever had an eye to
political interests, present or future, in
that part of the world.

The much-expected supper took place
as soon in the evening as could be
managed, and proved sufficiently sumptuous
fully to justify the anticipations
that had been formed about it. It was
a stately and ceremonious banquet to
which the long string of guests were
marshalled in due order of precedence,
as though at a state dinner-party. As
soon as it was over, aristocrats and democrats
alike seemed to feel that there was
no particular reason for staying any longer.
Carriages rolled up to the doors and departed
in rapid succession, and the great
hall was speedily emptied.

And thus the Llwyn-yr-Allt party returned
home much earlier than is usually
the case from a country ball ; and this
was how it came about that the whole
household was already in bed and asleep
at between two and three o'clock in the
morning, when Ralph and Imogen set
off for Gwern pond, and the stranger
entered the house by the window they
had left unfastened.

A PIG HUNT.

Digging for worms by lantern
light in the manure heap was
a successful operation, and the
tin box in which the bait was carried was
soon full. Then the brother and sister
extinguished their lanterns, deposited
them beneath a bush, and set off for
Gwern, which was the residence of an
unmarried uncle and aunt of theirs, and
where there was a pond well stocked
with tench and eels. The roads were
deserted at that early hour, and the only
people they saw were some gipsies moving

camp, who stared with surprise at meeting
a young lady and gentleman striding along
in the dim grey dawn, and carrying fishing
rods and basket.

Queer lot some of those gentry be ! '
said one gipsy, turning to look after them.
What should make they, that might sleep
in the night, be waking, and they that
might ride, be tramping afoot ? '

But the surprise which they excited
was quite unsuspected by either Ralph
or Imogen. They were merely doing
the thing they liked ; since it was pleasant
to them, it seemed to them natural and
reasonable for it to be the same to everyone
else ; and it never entered their heads to
suppose that their tastes were in any way
peculiar as judged by those of the majority
of the world.

On reaching the pond, the rods were
at once taken out of their cases, and the
reels and lines adjusted. Live bait was
prohibited as cruel, so the worms were

killed by sprinkling with salt before being
stuck on to the hooks and flung into the
water, and as soon as this was done, the
two fishers settled themselves down at the
edge of the pond, and fixed their attention
on their respective floats.

How delightful is it to a sportsman to
watch his float when there is a fish about
the hook ! First comes an unsteady
quivering, just strong enough to send
tiny ripples circling away from the cork.
Is it an indication of a nibble, or is it
merely caused by the wind ? No ; it is
certainly a fish, for now one end makes
a hasty curtsey into the water that can
only have resulted from a tug at the end
of the line. Then the float relapses into
quietude and remains motionless for perhaps
a minute or so. Why doesn't the
stupid thing move again ? Wouldn't it
be well to pull up the line and see if the
fish has sucked off the bait and gone
away ? for of course it is mere folly to

go on fishing with a bare hook. Only
then supposing the fish to be still there,
a premature pulling-up might frighten
him away altogether. Hurrah! he's still
on, for there go a couple of unmistakable
ripples shooting away from the float.
What sort Is he likely to be, and how big ?
Two or three very decided dips downwards
come next, and then all of a sudden
away rushes the cork at a tremendous
rate, bobbing violently as it goes. This
tells the fisher that the time has come to
strike sharply, and he presently lands in
triumph an eel, tench, or fish of some
kind or other. But great as his satisfaction
may then be, it is not quite equal to
what he felt whilst looking at the antics
of the float, and waiting for the right
moment to strike.

In watching that bit of wood writing
on the water what is going on below,
there Is a keen, subtle enjoyment of anticipation,
which disappears as soon as

the uncertainty Is over, the fish in his
power, and he knows all about it.

Ralph and Imogen had good sport at
first, but by-and-by it appeared that the
breakfast hour of the fishes was past, for
neither tench nor eel gave a sign of
further appetite, and matters threatened
to become slow. The fishers, however,
were not unprepared for this contingency,
and had provided themselves with a book
apiece. The author whom they most
affected was Captain Mayne Reid, and
they were soon perched upon some rails
that bordered the pond, and deep in
The White Chief and The Scalp Hunters
respectively, only raising their eyes from
the pages at Intervals to make sure that
the floats were still undisturbed.

At last Ralph put down his book,
stretched himself, and remarked, —

I don't fancy cold tart is very feeding ;
anyhow I know I feel just as peckish as
if I hadn't had anything to eat all the

morning. What if we make a raid on
the garden ? The fish don't seem Hke
biting now, and the rods '11 take care of
themselves till we come back if we stick
'em into the ground.'

All right,' replied his sister, jumping
off her perch ; * 'isn't six o'clock yet, so'
there'll be no one about. I wonder if
we'd best get into the garden by the
japonica over the wall, or shove back the
rusty old lock of the further door with a
nail as we did last week ? '

Oh, picking the lock will be safest, I
think,' returned Ralph ; ' if we were to
slip in climbing the japonica and smash
some of its precious old boughs, we should
get into awful hot water. Come along ;
I'm just starved, and I know there's plenty
of novella cherries left still'

The lock of the kitchen-garden door
was easily opened from the outside and
shot back again from the inside, so that
all might appear right on the arrival of

the gardeners ; and then the famishing
couple hurried to the cherry-tree and fell
upon the beautiful black berries, glistening
temptingly In the early sunlight.

These proved eminently satisfactory,
and It was not long before the well-covered
tree was stripped of every cherry
within reach, and the earth beneath strewn
with an abundance of shlnlnor stones.
Then a few supplementary peaches, nectarines,
and grenades were disposed of;
and as by this means the fishers felt their
inward cravings somewhat appeased, they
scaled the wall with the help of a pear-tree,
dropped down on the other side, and
began returning towards the pond.

Ah ! ' said Ralph, with a sigh of satisfaction,
' no one knows what the flavour
of umbrellas really is until he's been to the
garden like this to breakfast on them —
picking them straight off the tree.'

I guess the gardeners '11 be a little
puzzled to account for their sudden diminution,

though observed the girl ; * they'll
think the birds were uncommonly hungry
for fruit last night. I say, let's go and
turn out the pigs and have a jolly good
hunt, whilst there's no one about to see
us

This seemed to Ralph a capital idea,
and they at once turned their steps towards
the pig-sty, which was at that time inhabited
by two pigs, who had already
given them several excellent runs on
previous occasions, though unfortunately
they could only enjoy this sport by stealth,
as it was one of which they felt grave
doubts whether the authorities would
approve. A pig is a first-rate runner if
not too fat, and these two had been
effectually prevented from putting on a
superfluity of flesh by the attentions paid
them during the last few weeks by Ralph
and Imogen. Not only were the animals.
kept thin by the actual exercise involved
in being hunted, but there was also to betaken

into account the anxiety of anticipating
the chase beforehand and meditating
upon it afterwards. For if you
put yourself into the pigs' place you will
see that the mental wear and tear, resulting
from such harassing thoughts, would
certainly be enough to interfere with the
digestion of the most well-regulated pig
that ever grunted, and hinder him from
duly concentrating his energies on that
faculty for getting fat, which distinguishes
him from the rest of creation.

No sooner was the door of the sty
opened than its inmates, recognising the
voices of their persecutors and knowing
what was in store, rushed out with many
expostulating grunts and squeaks, charged
at full speed down a hilly field, forced
themselves through a wire fence at the
lower end, and got in a small lawn beyond.
Here there was a check in the pursuit,
for as Imogen took a flying leap over the
wires, she caught her foot in the top one

and rolled over like a shot rabbit. Ralph
stopped to laugh at her tumble, and this
gave the pigs time to cross the lawn and
a hedge on the other side, enter a little
plantation, and ensconce themselves panting
in some bushes. Consequently when
the hunters went on again and jumped
over the hedge, they could see nothing
of their game, and were at fault.

Where in the world can the brutes
have got to ? * exclaimed Ralph, after
searching for a few minutes in vain. * I'm
positive they didn't go further than this
plantation, for I've been keeping my eye
on the other side whilst I ran, and should
have seen if they'd gone on that way.
What a cracking pace they went ! They
must be rather blown, I expect, wherever
they are.'

They've stowed themselves away pretty
snugly, at all events,' said Imogen ; ' we
must beat the bushes regularly and see if
that'll rout them out'

Thump, thump, whack, whack, went the
sticks upon every tree and thick place in
the copse ; but it was to no purpose.
Pities lay close, and their pursuers
emerged from the plantation looking
blankly at each other.

Well, they're bound to be in here
somewhere,' cried Imogen, 'for they certainly
can't have vanished into thin air !
But what's become of them, passes me to
find out.'

Let's try through again more carefully,'
suggested Ralph. ' We only beat
the tops of the bushes that time. Suppose
we see what's to be done by poking
our sticks right into every hole and
corner.'

This mode of drawing the cover was
successful. When the clump in which
the pigs lay had merely been shaken and
struck with a great deal of noise that did
them no harm, they had been too cunning
to move. But when a random thrust

VOL. I. D

through the leaves probed them sharply
in the ribs, they thought it high time to
make an effort to save that bacon which
there seemed at present but a very remote
chance of their ever becoming. Uttering
vigorous and indignant protests, they
quitted the plantation, again took to the
open, and rushed helter-skelter up and
down a field.

Next to this field lay a small flower-garden,
enclosed by a trim, well-made
hedge. Being very closely pressed, they
presently charged the hedge wildly, broke
a gap in it, careered over the flower-beds
beyond, to the destruction of many a
cherished geranium and other plant,
forced a way out at the opposite side,
and burst into the carriage drive leading
to the house.

Here the fun came to a premature conclusion,
for, as the hunters came dashing
after them, they found themselves suddenly
face to face with the bailiff on his

way to the farm, who stood In amazement
at the unexpected apparition.

Nothing was further from the wishes of
Ralph and his sister than that their pig-hunting
exploits should be discovered and
reported to their uncle and aunt. For the
first moment, therefore, they were considerably
taken aback at thus meeting the
bailiff with appearances so much against
them, but promptly recovered their self-possession,
and were quite equal to the
emergency.

Oh, good-morning, Jones,' said Ralph,
with the utmost aplomb. ' You'd better
see to getting those pigs back to their
proper place. They were in the upper
flower-garden just now, so we've been
driving them out'

Which statement, though strictly true,
was not calculated to give the hearer an
altogether accurate impression of what
had been taking place.

'In th' upper flower-garden, sir!' reef



l/8f?>,r- "'"'^^

Iffy

seated Jones, In extreme surprise. ' Why,
how the dickens was they get there, I
wonder ? I'll take my oath as they was
safe In the sty last thing last night, with
the door fast upon 'em. And the fence
round the garden is as sound as can be,
without no gap In It not nowhere — at
least there wasn't none yesterday, whatever
! '

Well, there's a pretty big one there
now, at all events,' answered Ralph.
However, as you've come, you can seethe
pigs out of mischief, and there's no
need for us to trouble about them any
longer.'

So saying he and his sister left the road
and returned to the pond, congratulating
themselves on the fortunate accident of
the creatures having broken Into the
garden, and thus furnished them with an
excellent and truthful excuse for the unlawful
occupation at which they had been
caught.

Jones meanwhile went on his way
scratching his head, and not a little
mystified. He was not really as confident
as he pretended to be that the
pig-sty door had been properly fastened
overnight, for he had an uneasy consciousness
of having neglected to go and
see to it, as he ought to have done.
Yet, even if their escape from the sty
might possibly be explained in this way,
he was still utterly at a loss to imagine
what attraction they could have seen or
smelt in a garden full of nothing but
flowers to induce them to make a gap
through a stiff fence in order to get into
it. Past experience of pig nature gave
him no clue to solving the problem. But
some slight knowledge of former pranks
played by Ralph and Imogen made him
generally inclined to suspect that, if anything
went wrong when they were in the
neighbourhood, it was by no means unlikely
for them to have had some hand

A Burglary.

in the mischief; and the poor man was
beginning, too, to have a hazy kind of
idea that, somehow or other, the Gwern
pigs never did seem able to get fat in
holiday time !

IMOGEN S IDEAS.

S^^§ H E interlude of fruit breakfast
and pig-hunt, which had served
to relieve the monotony of fishing,
had taken some time ; and on returning
to the pond, it was found that
Ralph's bait had been carried off without
catching anything, and Imogen's hook had
been swallowed by a fine eel, which had
subsequently twisted itself into an almost
inextricable knot with the line. Disentangling
the creature was a difficult and
slimy operation ; but it was at last accomplished
successfully, and then the two hooks

were re-halted, and again cast Into the
water, while the fishers settled themselves
comfortably on the rails as before.

Imogen's energetic nature was a somewhat
curious compound of ardent love of
running wild, with genuine desire to do
right, and vague aspirations after something
more elevated than the merely
savage existence which she found so delightful.
Some accidental circumstance
now happened to set these aspirations stirring
within her, and she felt a sudden
longing to get her brother to sympathise
with her. But It was by no means easy
to her to express the Inner self that she
was conscious of and wanted to make him
understand ; for she was Intensely shy of
giving vent to any sentiment that sounded
at all high-flown, and If ever she did want
to utter anything noble, chivalrous, romantic,
beautiful, or exalted, was apt to
conceal it In slangy and common-place
language. Many was the time that she

had thus, when really in her best moods,
laid herself open to the charge of vulgarity
from those who could detect nothing of
the beautiful thought that was underlying
the coarse outer wrapping of speech that
she had used. For it is not everyone
whose perceptions are keen enough to discover
a nugget of precious metal when it is
enveloped in a coating of mud ; and, therefore,
people should beware lest they set upas
diggers for gold, either physical or moral,
without having the requisite qualities to fit
them for that office.

'This sort of life's awfully jolly,' remarked
Imogen, by way of leading up to
what she wanted to say ; ' but I suppose it
wouldn't do to have it go on always.'

I don't see why not,' replied Ralph, a
little astonished at her remark. ' However,
it can't — worse luck ! for as soon as
the holidays come to an end, I shall have
to go on grinding at my work again. I
haven't the gift you have of escaping

lessons, and being let to be as lazy as you
please. Let's see. How many governesses
was it you managed to turn out of the
house in the last six months before the
article was finally discontinued as hopeless ?
Were there four or five that went in that
time?'

Oh ! I'm positive there weren't more
than four, at any rate,' she answered
quickly ; ' but you needn't say it was all
my doing. Two of them gave notice of
themselves, so their departure was no work
of mine, you see.'

Ralph laughed.

But if you made their lives so unbearable
in one way or other that they positively
declined to stay, that comes to much
the same thing, doesn't it ? ' said he.
There was old Mrs Brown, for instance.
You couldn't suppose she would consent to
stay at a place where her false brown front
was occasionally found to have been dipped
in the ink, and her rouge-pot had a trick

of disappearing mysteriously, to say nothing
of the strange frequency with which dust
accumulated In the wards of her keys and
choked them up

Nasty, painted bewigged old thing ! '
returned Imogen. 'What did she go and
get herself up like that for, I should like
to know ? Much good anyone would get
from associating with such an old sham.
I'm sure it was no loss when she took her
departure.'

Well, then, there was Mademoiselle
Perron,' continued Ralph ; * she used rather
to amuse me with her readiness to make
eyes at any male creature whatever, and
get up a flirtation with him. Why, she
wasn't above keeping In her hand even on
me when there was no one better to be had.
/ shouldn't have minded her in the house
for a bit, but you were too much for her,
as usual ; and you know she vowed she
wouldn't stay with a pupil who never
walked with her, sat with her, except

during lessons, or did anything whatever
to amuse her. The situation was too triste
to be endured.'

Mademoiselle Perron, indeed ! ' cried
Imogen, scornfully. 'It wasn't likely that
I'd spend more time than I could help
with a woman like her, who was more cut
out for a ladles' maid than a governess. She
hadn't an atom of pluck, was always collapsing
and being abiinee or desoUe about
something or other, and could never talk of
any subjects but making love and dresses.
Such a pig as she was too ! You wouldn't
believe the state she'd let her things get
into before she'd think It necessary to
change them or have them washed. There
wasn't any possible pleasure or profit
either to be got out of her society.'

Somehow or other that seemed to bethe
conclusion you arrived at In regard to
all your governesses,' said Ralph, 'so at
last papa had to give it up as a bad job,
and determined not to inflict any more of

them on you — or not to inflict you on anymore
of them would perhaps be the properest
way of putting it. And the consequence
is that now you can be just as
idle as you please. You really have been
uncommonly leary about shirking work,
Im, and I only wash I could learn the
dodge of it from you.'

The charge of laziness was not very
pleasant to the high - spirited, energetic
girl, who felt that she did not really
deserve it.

I never tried to shirk work at all ! ' she
exclaimed ; ' it was quite accidental that
the governesses didn't happen to stay —
they where such a wretched lot that I'm
sure 710 07ie could have got on with them.
And it's not fair to call me idle when I'm
doing just as much work by myself as
ever I did in the schoolroom. I'm translating
Silvio Pellicle, and trying to learn
Italian, because I want to read Dante,
and I'm writing a resumed of Menses's

Geschichte der Deutsche, and doing lots of
other things as well. So there ! But to
go back to what I was going to say when
I started : It is awfully jolly, and no mistake,
to live as we do now ; but yet, I can
understand that it may be as well not to be
able to keep on doing it always. You see
nothing, and fishing, and larking, can't do
any real good in the world — " it don't get
no forrarder " for them, as the farmer in
Punch remarked, a propos of drinking
claret. When one feels what a stunning
lot of go there is in one, it seems as if
there's bound to be something to sop it
all in somewhere or other. And if every
chap's got some sort of work cut out for
him to do, I calculate we must have it
too. I wonder what ours is ? '

You needn't bother your head about
the matter though, at any rate,' answered
Ralph, with an air of more superiority
than his twelve months of seniority entitled
him to assume, in her opinion. ' A

man's got to do something, of course ; so
he goes into the army or navy, or some
other profession. But a woman can't
have any profession except to marry,
and it's absurd of her to go taking up
some particular line when she doesn't
know what her husband '11 be like, or what
sort of position she'll have to fill. Didn't
I see in some book the other day — '' Felix
Holt" I think it was — that "a woman's
lot is made for her by the love she accepts
" ? That's about what my idea of
the matter is.'

This was a sentiment to which Imopren
objected strongly — as Ralph very well
knew. The popular idea that it was the
natural destiny of all women to get married
if possible, seemed to her to be an
insult to her sex, and she was always
ready to oppose it fiercely whenever it
was brought forward in her presence. To
marry without being in love was a thing
which, she felt vaguely convinced, must

be wicked ; and falling in love she regarded
in the light of a piece of folly — ■
a thing not exactly wrong, but a sort
of contemptible weakness of which, she
was convinced, she would herself never
be guilty. Probably the Shaker colony
described by Mr W. D. Howell in The
Undiscovered Country, would have corresponded
pretty well to her ideal of
the proper mutual relations between the
male and female sex — a relationship to
be characterised by absolute equality and
independence.

That's just so much stuff and nonsense,'
she replied, positively. * Lots of
women never marry at all, and I've quite
made up my mind that / won't, for one.
I'm sure there's no one in the world that
I should stand having to live with all
my life long — unless,' she added, as a
sudden thought struck her — ' unless it
were you, Ralph, perhaps. You see I'm
pretty well used to you by now, so perhaps

I might not disHke keeping house
for you by way of an occupation. What
should you think of that plan ? '

What gracious condescension ! ' said
her brother, laughing. ' I'm sure I feel
immensely flattered, old lady. But then,
what if I were to get a wife some fine
day? It's a thing fellows have a trick
of doing, you know ; and whenever that
happened, " I cinna ken how we'd agree,
lassie," as the gentleman in Htmtmgtower
observes, when there is a question of
introducing a second wife into the house,
where there's one established already.'

Imogen's proposal had been made in
perfect seriousness and good faith, and
she was a lite bit netted at Ralph's
indifference to the distinction conferred
upon him.

'Well — I'm sure don't want it \i you
don't,' she replied, tossing her head. * If
I were to try, it would be just as likely
as not that I should find you too great

VOL. I. E

a plague to put up with after all — and
I wouldn't be too positive about the wife
either, if I were you ! No onely have
you, perhaps. But this isn't the point
I'm driving at. What I'm wondering is,
what we've got to do with our lives to
make 'em '' something real, something
earnest," as some fellow says — how we're
to go ahead so as to be of real use in
the world, and make some solid difference
to it ? '

'Why not let things slide, and see
that'll turn up ? ' returned Ralph. ' That's
what I guess people in general and girls
In particular had best do. Only I suppose
that's not sensational enough to satisfy a
soaring ambition like yours. I see clear
enough that you're hankering to cut a
tremendous dash, and become a public
character, and get well talked about.'

How provoking you are ! ' exclaimed
Imogen ; ' I don't want anything of the
kind, and shouldn't care if no one were

ever to hear a word about me. All I want
is just what I say, to be of some real use
in the world. It's my belief that every
man-jack of us is meant to do that, and
that the coves who don't, are failures.'

Take my word for it you'll be a failure
if you don't marry,' returned her brother
sagely. ' However, if you really want me
to suggest something marked and desperate
for you to do, I'll endeavour to assist you.
Let me see — what is there ? What do
you say to cooking ? You'll be none the
worse for that whoever you may chance to
marry. Even if a man is too great a swell
to require a wife who can cook his dinner
for him herself, yet he'll probably approve
of her having some practical knowledge of
the art to bring to bear upon the cook.'

His sister had caught readily at the
suggestion, and not attended to the last
part of his speech.

• Cooking ! ' she repeated, thoughtfully.
Yes — I'm not sure that's not a good idea.

If some of the poor women about here
knew a lot about it, I daresay that would
help them to save money and make their
homes very comfortable. I don't know
any poor people, it's true ; but still I might
start a cookery class, and — '

Oh, but that's not at all what I'm
recommending,' interrupted Ralph, who
enjoyed teasing her a bit at times ; ' I said
learn yourself for the benefit of your
future husband ; I never said a word about
classes for cottagers. Of course, though,
a woman who could feed her husband upon
soitffldeSy creams, touches, and all that
sort of muck would be no end of a treasure
for a farm labourer — we mustn't lose sight
of that fact on any account ! '

Oh, Ralph, you see I'm not chaffing,'
cried Imogen; 'please do talk seriously
for once, like a good fellow. I do want — '

Here she hesitated. There was in her
nature a frank, fearless, 
sort of feeling which impelled

her not to be ashamed of saying out
the real thought that was in her, be it
what it might ; but this feeling was now
held in check by her great aversion to say
anything that could be regarded as fine or
goody ' in any way. After pausing for a
moment, however, honesty carried the day,
and she went on speaking — flushing and
hurrying as though saying something very
dreadful.

You see I was confirmed this year, and
somehow I don't think one can go on just
the same after that as one did before ; and
I do want to keep straight, and be on the
square, and do what's got to be done. I
don't think so always, I know, but I do so
sometimes. There's a couple of lines by a
chap called Arnold, saying —

Tasks in hours of insight willed,
May be through hours of gloom fulfilled."

And I expect he's about right there. If
one were to fix up what one's got to do

some time when one's in a pretty tidy
humour, I daresay one would find it easier
to stick to the thing afterwards when one's
in a bad humour, and not feeling good a
bit. If one was to be always staring up
at something miles overhead, I suppose
almost any one might turn out tolerably
creditable at last. I say — do you think
you see what I mean, old boy ? '

It had been a great effort to her to get
over her shyness enough to say so much
as this, and her voice shook a little with
nervousness as she ended. There was,
too, a wistful, half-pleading tone in it
which told her eagerness to have in her
occasional cravings after higher things the
same companionship which she required in
her lower amusements. As she worked
herself up In this appeal for Ralph's
sympathy, she fancied her need of It to
be greater than it really was, and pictured
to herself how nice It would be If he
would agree with her, and how helpful

too — for, of course, it would be ever so
much easier to be good if some one else
were trying to be good also ! Whether or
not he would take the same view of the
matter as she did, she did not at all know ;
but, at all events, it was worth trying for
she thought.

Ralph was a good deal astonished, and
a little bit aggrieved at this sudden fit
of earnestness and moralising, and his
response to her appeal was not very
satisfactory or sympathetic. Although he
was a year older, more sophisticated, and
less enthusiastic than his sister, yet in his
secret heart he by no means disputed the
correctness of the sentiments she had
uttered, and, indeed, rather approved of
them than not. But then it did not at all
follow that he should want to have them
put into words, and, as it were, flung plump
at his head when he was not in the humour
for that sort of thing. Consequence, at the
present moment he felt a good deal inclined

to give her a decided and sharp
snubbing, just to teach her not to go blurting
out moralising at inappropriate and
unexpected seasons in this sort of way.
His conscience, however, did not allow
him to go quite as far as that, so he contented
himself by answering shortly, —
Hem — oh yes — I see ! '

Having delivered himself to this effect,
he proceeded to take up the fishing-rods,
and examine the state of the bait, in order
to introduce a diversion both into the
current of her ideas, and also into the conversation.
His plan succeeded. For a few
minutes she felt a little quam and disappointed,
and then that and all her other
sober feelings were forgotten as she gave
her mind to the consideration of whether
it would be best to throw a line under the
big ash, or beyond the blown-down oak ;
what could be the cause of her bait going
so fast although the float never gave a single
bob ; by what route the otter had reached

the pond last week ; and other similarly
weighty matters.

An eel or two was caught at intervals,
but the sport was not as good as it had
been at first. Before long the hoarse
sound of a hotter at some distant works
was heard.

There goes the workmen's breakfast
shooters said Imogen, ' and that means
half-past eight. We may as well reel up,
I should think, for by the time we've got
home and tidied ourselves, I expect the
swells will be beginning to come down
after their ball, and there'll be a chance
of getting breakfast. I'm powerfully
hungry in spite of those snacks of cold
tart and fruit — aren't you ?'

Just aiiit I ? ' returned Ralph, with
emphasis ; ' and then I mean to spend the
rest of the day trout-fishing on the Derwent
shall take a couple of biscuits for lunch,
and get off as quick as I can after
breakfast, for it's good three miles to the

nearest point for striking the river. Will
you be able to come too, or do you
suppose you'll be wanted to do the civil
at home ? '

Of course I'll come, and bring the
butterfly net too she replied promptly.
Catch me losing a jolly day's outing to
stay at home ! Thank goodness I'm not
old enough for papa to reckon on me forgoing
pottering about after company yet,
and he's got Aunt Sophia to attend to
this lot for him. I shall hate when I
come to have to do that sort of work, I
know. There won't be much jam about
being bound to spend the day towering
in a carriage with fine ladies, talking
pretty to visitors, picking one's way
through the mud in one's best clothes
because the guests must be taken for a
gentle constitutional, or some other abomination
of that kind, when all the time one's
dying to be free and out of doors, and
doing as one likes. Ugh ! '

Ralph grunted sympathetically at this
moving picture of horrors ; and then they
collected together and counted the fish
they had caught. The eels had been
killed at once and lay scattered here and
there in the long grass with their throats
cut, but the tench were to be kept alive,
and had therefore been put into the
covered fishing-basket and sunk into the
water, with their prison made fast to the
shore. The total catch was found to be
fourteen tench and eleven eels.

Not a bad morning's work, after all,'
remarked Ralph complacently, as the fish
were arranged carefully in the basket with
an abundant supply of wet leaves and
grass to keep them fresh. * We'll take
the tench straight to the garden and put
'em into the little tank so that we can fish
'em out with a net as they're wanted.
And now for home and respectability
ourselves.'

The basket of fish was no light weight,

and they sometimes slung it between them
and sometimes carried it by turns, as they
stepped out briskly up the hilly road leading
from Gwern to Llwyn-yr-Allt. When
they reached the house they kept carefully
out of sight, and sneaked in quietly by the
back way, having a vague idea that they
would be held guilty of some grievous
breach of manners if * company ' were
allowed to behold them in their present
condition.

Their over-strained sense of the iniquity
of being muddy and dishevelled was due
to often-reiterated condemnations of that
condition which had been dinned into
their ears from earliest childhood by prim
authorities, such as nurses and governesses,
who regarded all untidiness as being alike
reprehensible. Wherein, however, the
aforesaid authorities were mistaken ; since
there are unquestionably two kinds of
untidiness, which are distinctly different
from one another ; the one kind is slovenly

and therefore legitimately blameable, being
an untidiness that never was nor could be
anything else ; whereas the other is blameless,
having made its original start in good
order, and only become disarranged by
subsequent honest wear and tear. And
between these two there is obviously a
marked difference which ought to be
recognised in the language that is applied
to them, especially in the case of
children.

No such distinction, however, had ever
been taught to Ralph and Imogen, and so
they now fully believed themselves to be
unpresentable in polite society till they
should have removed as far as possible all
traces of their occupations of the morning.
Indeed, they were not altogether sure
whether It was quite becoming on their
parts not to feel ashamed of the rosy
cheeks, robust and healthy looks, bright
eyes, scratched hands and faces, and tremendous
appetites, which were so many

indelible symptoms of what they had been
about, and must inevitably accompany
them when they should enter the diningroom
and join the visitors at breakfast.

But on this particular morning they
might have spared themselves all anxiety
about the matter. During their absence
from the house an event had occurred so
startling as fully to engross the attention
of the whole household, and they might
have presented themselves in any fashion
they chose, without fear of having any
peculiarities of their appearance noticed or
commented on.

AN HEIRESS.

The PERCIVAL CARTON,

cousin to Imogen Rhys, heiress
to very great wealth, and possessor
of more splendid jewels than any
other spinster in the kingdom, must have
a chapter of introduction all to herself,
since she is obviously a personage of too
much consequence to be brought into a
story in the casual sort of manner that
does very well for girls with nothing worth
mentioning a year.

The precise amount of her heiress-ship
was not known definitely, but it was

popularly estimated as being somewhere
between eighty thousand and a hundred
and twenty thousand a-year ; for when
people talk of sums of that magnitude they
are apt to become vague, and to regard
twenty thousand pounds, more or less, as
the merest trifle. She was an only child,
and had inherited from her parents, who
were both dead, a very large fortune.
And besides this she was the chosen inheritor
of Mr Carton, her father's brother,
who was a childless old widower of immense
property, and with whom she lived
at Carton House. A Mrs Grey, who was
a poor relation of the family, also resided
there, and officiated as her chaperon ; but
as Mrs Grey was a nonentity, and as Mr
Carton hardly ever interfered with his
niece, Ethel was virtually mistress of the
place, and did pretty much what she liked
with herself and every one and thing connected
therewith.

The affairs of an heiress are of course

far more worthy of attention than those of
an ordinary young woman who has nothing
to recommend her except her own merits,
and therefore the world at large had always
taken a lively interest in Ethel and whatever
concerned her. Consequently she had
from childhood been made much of, flattered,
smiled upon, and deferred to on all
sides, till she had come to regard her own
importance as a sort of matter of course,
and only what was strictly her due ; though
she might perhaps have been a little
shaken in this opinion if it had ever
occurred to her to notice and try to account
for the striking contrast between the deference
which was invariably paid to herself
and the very inferior amount of consideration
bestowed upon the majority of
other girls of her own standing.

The continual homage that she had received
all her life would have been enough
to spoil many characters completely ; but,
fortunately, she was endowed with sufficient

VOL. I. F

sterling good sense and simplicity to save
her from being much the worse for such
treatment. The fact was that she was
not altogether a young lady of the everyday
type. Neither she nor anyone else
had yet discovered that fact, but there
it was, all the same. An ordinary good-natured,
pleasant, unaffected sensible girl,
graceful and rather pretty, but with nothing
very remarkable about her one way
or other, was the verdict that would have
probably been pronounced upon her had
she had no special golden charms to recommend
her. That was all true as far
as it went ; but, furthermore, she had a
shrewdness of judgment, and sundry other
latent talents and good qualities, for which
no one gave her credit, because she was too
indolent, and too entirely satisfied with
her position, to take the trouble properly
to develop them or make them apparent.
On account of her costly setting, people
would behave to her as though she were

rare china, while all the time, in their
secret hearts, they sneered at her as
nothing but common ware ; yet, could
they have perceived all that was hidden
within her, they would have been forced,
greatly to their surprise, to acknowledge
that she was in very truth the valuable
porcelain which they affected to consider
her to be.

The easily obvious good points which
would have earned her the verdict just
mentioned, would have sufficed to procure
her an average share of social success,
whatever her station in life might have
been ; but, nevertheless, if left to find
her own level in society, not as the representative
of great riches, but simply as
Ethel Carton and nothing more, there
would certainly have been a vast difference
in the sort of reception that she would
have met with, and the change would
not have been a flattering one. Various
charms and accomplishments of hers upon

which she was now continually complimented
In the most gratifying manner,
would then have been passed over unnoticed
; little jokes that now received
the applause due to high-class witticisms,
would then often not have been honoured
with even a smile ; the Interest that was
now taken in her likes and dislikes, and
the eagerness shown to do her any service
and to anticipate her wishes, would then
have ceased ; her goings and comings
would no longer have attracted the same
attention that they did at present, nor
would her opinions about things have
been considered equally Important ; it was
possible that she might have had to
undergo the mortification of being neglected,
and even snubbed, by those who
now appeared to be entirely devoted to
her, and firmly convinced that it was out
of the question for her ever to be in the
wrong, or her company otherwise than
in the highest degree acceptable. Some

dim and hazy idea she had of the possibility
of a state of affairs of this kind
existing in regard to other people, but
by no means realised how completely it
was the case as regarded herself. Indeed,
it was a matter into which she had no
wish to examine too closely ; for she did
not see what gain it would be to her to
have the unpleasant certainty that no one
liked her for her own sake, when there
was obviously no remedy for it ; since it
was impossible for her to alter her circumstances,
and divest herself of her
gilded setting, even if she should desire
to do so, — which she certainly did not.

She was quite aware that constant intercourse
with dependants, toadies, and
people more or less servile, could not be
exactly wholesome, and must necessarily
prevent the mental atmosphere from being
bracing and healthy. But she did not
care to open her eyes too wide in order
to try and discover reasons for thinking

that all the people surrounding her were
to be included in that category, and
thought it better to acquiesce contentedly
in the existing state of things, than to
be forgetting and routing about merely
on chance of finding out what would
make her dissatisfied with it. This was
not to be wondered at, for few people
find it unpleasant to be paid court to ;
and if continual deference and artistic
toadying fall to anyone's lot as naturally
as the air that is breathed, it is too much
to expect of human nature that the favoured
individual should, of his or her
own accord, turn away from these things
or quarrel with them. Everyone would
rather be welcomed than received with
indifference, agreed with than contradicted,
looked up to than despised, held
in honour than slighted. And this is
not only because of the actual gratification
afforded by being thought well of,
but also because of the great extent to

which people's opinion about themselves
is affected by that which they believe
others to entertain about them.

If a man meets with black looks on
all sides, he probably feels as if he had
done something wrong, however innocent
he may really be ; whereas, when the world
manifestly thinks him a fine fellow, he is
almost sure to enjoy an exhilarating conviction
that he is one, even though unconscious
of any particular act of virtue to
entitle him to that credit. The spectacles
through which we regard ourselves are
very apt to be of the same tint as those
through which our companions regard us ;
and so the fact that other people seemed
to think Ethel all she should be, was a
great assistance to her having the same
opinion about herself as a general rule.
A very comfortable opinion it was, too,
and one which produced a tranquil sensation
of content, and an idea that things
in their present condition were so eminently

satisfactory, that it would be a
pity to disturb them ; and hence the good
sense which she undoubtedly possessed
did not make her at all object to spend
her time chiefly in the company of persons
who had more or less interested motives
for being agreeable to her. Some of these
were toadies of the common, vulgar type ;
whilst others were specimens of a higher
and more refined class of the same article
people who, if accused of being so,
would have rejected the imputation indignantly,
and would certainly have scorned
to occupy the position of paid companions,
but who, nevertheless, were ready enough
to do all that in them lay in order to
become habitual hangers-on at any house
where the loaves and fishes were to be
found in abundance, and were not very
nice as to the means by which that end
was to be attained.

Ethel's willingness to let these individuals
associate with her, however, never

seemed to lead to her being very Intimate
with them ; and this imperviousness of
hers was a source of great disappointment
to some who had been encouraged by her
accessible to imagine that they would
have no difficulty in attaining to the
coveted post of toady-inches. For this
important situation there had been various
candidates of both sexes who had aspired
to be either bosom-friend, husband, confidential
adviser, or something of the same
kind which might give the aspirant a
permanent influence over her ; but somehow
she had eluded them all, and not one
had managed to become attached to her
in the desired capacity.

In her treatment of these people, she
always displayed great skill and tact.
When civilities were offered her, she
received them placidly, profited by them
as far as might be convenient, and never
worried herself on the subject of what
motives might have prompted them. If

she found people agreeable, she was quite
ready to enjoy their society for as long
as she and they might be thrown together,
and seemed to be thoroughly happy and
contented with them ; yet when circumstances
happened to drift them away from
her again, she made no effort whatever
to prevent it, and those who had flattered
themselves they were becoming necessary
to her, would find suddenly that they had
passed out of her life and left no more
trace there than does an arrow on the
air which it has cleft. She never committed
herself to people, or behaved so
that they could have just cause to complain
of her as unkind or fickle whenever
she might chance to drop them ; nor was
she ever known to snub any one harshly ;
but for all that she would not let herself
be taken possession of. Invariably pleasant,
amiable, and polite towards all who
came in contact with her, she nevertheless
carefully avoided giving anyone really good

reason for supposing that he or she was
indispensable to her ; and she seemed to
understand, as though by instinct, exactly
how to behave so as to keep herself to
herself when she chose, and gently to
shake off whoever showed symptoms of
too burr-like a character.

Her disposition was an indolent one ;
but she was charitable, good-hearted, and
conscientious, and had a religious belief
which was very genuine and firm, and a
real support to her on critical occasions,
though at other times it may perhaps
have been somewhat sluggish. She had
a high opinion of masterly inaction as
being almost always the best policy to
adopt; because, as she said, * If things
get into a mess, they generally seem to
come right by-and-by, if they're let
alone ; and if they're not in a mess, why,
of course, there's no reason for meddling
with them at all' And this doctrine
was evidently eminently well adapted to

gratify the natural inclination to laziness
that was characteristic of her. Add to
all this that her gracefulness, prettiness,
and pleasantness had completely captivated
Imogen, who had fallen in love
with her as a girl in her teens sometimes
does do with one a few years her senior,
and then Miss Carton will have been
described sufficiently for the requirements
of this story, and in order to do justice
to the position which she occupied in the
world's estimation.

A BURGLARY.

N the night of the Cwm-EIthin
ball, Ethel Carton the heiress,
famous for her wealth and her
jewellery, returned to Llwyn-yr-Allt with
the rest of Mr Rhys' guests. Having been
assisted to undress by her maid Green, she
went tranquilly to bed, and was very soon
fast asleep. But she was not destined to
pass the night undisturbed. Her slumbers
had lasted but a short time before some
sound partially awoke her, and she wondered
drowsily what it was. Any unwonted
nocturnal sound has a tendency to suggest

the idea of robbers to most people,
even though it is not at all a necessary-consequence
for them to suppose that the
particular noise which they hear at that
moment is caused by a thief; and so there
was nothing remarkable in her thoughts
having turned vaguely, for an instant, in
the direction of some one breaking into the
house. But the idea merely glanced
across her mind in the easiest way, and
then altogether vanished.

Being of a placid disposition, and not
given to nervousness, or a habit of fidgeting
about imaginary dangers, she regarded
burglaries as very remote possibilities. No
doubt they occurred sometimes ; but she
had never been bothered with them, and
did not see why she ever should expect to
be. She remembered that before going to
sleep, she had been conscious that somewhere
within hearing there was an ill-fitting
window which rattled in its frame, whenever
the wind blew. Of course it must

have been that that woke her, and she
wasn't such a silly as to be alarmed at a
common, every-day sound like the rattling
of a window, which was a thing she had
heard all her life long.

Besides, even if there were anything
wrong, it was clearly not her affair, but her
uncle's, since the house belonged to him
and not to her. One couldn't be expected
to wake oneself wide up, just to go listening
to stupid noises, and worrying about
visionary evils, in other people's houses.
That was obviously the owner's business ;
and it was quite nuisance enough to feel
bound to bother oneself in that way in
one's own house, without wanting to go
and do it in other places as well. And
after such an unanswerable argument as
that, it would be quite ridiculous for her to
trouble herself any further about what
sort of noise she might have been disturbed
by.

A dreamy half-doubt did indeed cross

her very sleepy mind as to whether this
argument would appear quite equally satisfactory
in a wide-awake condition ; but the
doubt departed as quickly as it came, and
the reasoning seemed to her conclusive in
her then drowsy state ; so she turned comfortably
on to her other side, and closed
her eyes with a sweet consciousness of
having thoroughly fulfilled her duty, and
done all that any one could possibly expect
of her.

She had not, however, had time to get
quite sound asleep again, when something
else aroused her. She fancied she heard
footsteps come softly up to her door and
stop there in the passage outside. This
gave her a momentary feeling of surprise,
as she knew that neither of the rooms near
hers was occupied. But then she immediately
jumped to the conclusion that
one of the gentlemen must have been sitting
up late to smoke, and had mistaken his
way to bed. Yes, evidently that was it ;

for there was her door handle being turned,
and a light shining into the room. How
excessively stupid of whoever it might be.

Who's there ? Can't come in ! ' she
called out.

Oh, beg pardon — made mistake,' was
muttered by a male voice in reply. Then
the door, which sounded as if it must have
been opened pretty wide, was shut gently,
the light disappeared, and everything relapsed
into silence.

I wonder who it was ? ' thought she with
as much wrathfulness as was compatible
with her sleepiness. 'It really Is too idiotic
of people not to know the look of their
own doors ! '

And with that reflection she again snuggled
down into the bedclothes, and composed
herself to resume the slumbers that
had been thus twice interrupted.

She was not long In dropping off into a
doze ; but was once more aroused, and this
time by a sound of something rustling

VOL. I. G

close at hand. Very soon she was broad
awake, and frightened in good earnest.
Round part of her bed a curtain was drawn,
and on the other side of this appeared a
glimmering Hight, which cast the shadow of
some one moving stealthily across the
room. In a moment or so the caster of the
shadow came within range of her eyes, and
she saw to her horror that it was a man
whose face was covered by a black mask.

At this terrifying sight she felt an immediate
and not unnatural inclination to
scream, but controlled it with an effort, having
presence of mind enough to perceive
that the wisest thing she could do, would
be to simulate sleep at all events till she
should have time to think over the situation,
and determine what else there was
to be done. Keeping her eyes shut, therefore,
and continuing the regular breathing
proper to a sleeper, she hurriedly revolved
in her mind all the courses of action that
were open to her. Supposing she were to

scream, what use would that be ? Directly
she did so, she would probably be silenced
by violence ; and even if she should resolve
to take her chance of that, yet she
felt sure her voice would not penetrate far
enough through thick walls, and closed
doors, to be of any avail in bringing assistance,
for unluckily her room was some distance
off from that of any of the other inmates
of the house. There was a bell to
have recourse to, of course ; but as it was
near the fireplace, and quite out of reach
from the bed, she did not feel disposed to
try and get at it to ring it ; and so altogether
she quickly came to the conclusion
to abandon any idea of summoning help by
making a noise.

The next thing to suggest itself was,
whether flight was anyhow possible. Could
she not manage to slip quietly out of bed,
get safely as far as the door, rush into the
passage, hold the door against the enemy
from the outside, and shriek till she

should succeed in attracting some one's
attention ? But then, as bad luck would
have it, the execution of such a manoeuvre
as this was rendered impossible by the
situation of the bed, for it was a long way
off from the door, and had one side jammed
close up against the wall, whilst the other
side faced right into the middle of the room.
It was hopeless to think of leaving the
bed without being seen immediately, and so
that idea also had to be dismissed as impracticable.


The only other plan that presented itself
to her was, that she should do nothing at
all, but remain perfectly quiet, just as she
was. It has already been mentioned that
she upheld a policy of masterly inaction as
usually the best to be pursued, and by
staying quiet she would evidently be carrying
out this cherished principle, and avoiding
all risk of committing herself to anything
decisive which she might, perhaps,
afterwards have reason to repent of. Masterly

Inaction carried the day with her.
What are principles worth if they do not
assist one at critical moments ? and how
are they to have a chance of doing that,
unless one sticks to them steadily ? So
the end of the pros and cons of various
plans which had passed swiftly through
her brain was, that she determined to lie
still, and go on feigning sleep. The intruder
might help himself to whatever he
chose unmolested, and then the instant
he was safe out of the room she would
lock the door, and proceed to ring, scream,
and arouse the household by every means
of clamour in her power.

A few words will suffice to account for
the burglar's presence there. Miss Carton's
jewels were renowned, and there could be
no doubt that any woman who owned such
things would be sure to bring the most
costly to display at an occasion like the
Cwm-EIthln ball, when there would be so
very favourable an opportunity to show

them off to a large number of people, and
eclipse a great many of her own sex — some
of whom she might even hope to see turning
green with envy at the sight. Her jewels,
therefore, had attracted the burglar to the
house where it was known that she was
going to stay. It was a place of which he
had some previous knowledge, and by means
of a short and apparently careless conversation
with one of the servants, he had
discovered what bedroom she was to
occupy. He had expected to have to
break into the house, but the exit of
Ralph and Imogen had saved him that
trouble, as he had simply pushed up the
window which they had left unfastened,
and thus easily effected his entrance.
Knowing his way about inside, he had
had no difficulty in reaching Ethel's room ;
and the opening of the door, which she had
attributed to a mistake on the part of one
of the other visitors in the house, had been
his doing. Having opened it wide enough

to admit him, he had slipped in before
closing it, and had at the same time
hidden the light of the dark lantern that
he carried. After that he kept perfectly
still for a short time, until her regular
breathing made him believe her to be fast
asleep ; and then he advanced cautiously
towards the dressing-table in search of the
booty which vas the object that had
brought him there.

Her quickly-formed resolution to pretend
sleep made her continue the steady
breathing of a sleeper unbroken, save for
just one momentary check that occurred at
the first discovery of his presence. Short
as the interruption in the sound was, it
had not escaped his quick ear, and he
went softly up to the bedside, and turned
the light full on her face to try and ascertain
if she were really sleeping or not.
She felt him close to her, felt him touch
the bed, felt his breath upon her face, and
could hardly retain her self-control. It was

well-nigh Impossible to He there, acting
peaceful repose, and not having an idea of
what he might be going to do. All kinds
of horrible thoughts and fears rushed across
her mind. Perhaps he was armed with a
knife or pistol, and was about to take her
life ; perhaps each breath she drew might
be her last.

How would death feel ? would it be very
terrible ? would it be quickly over, or
would each fraction of a second seem a
long-drawn hour of agony ? In that dreadful
moment of suspense and feeling of utter
helplessness her faith came to her assistance.
Religion was a living factor in her
life — a real belief, and not a mere empty
form of words — and she now with a sort of
desperate mental effort grasped and held
fast the knowledge that God was with her
always, that He loved her and was watching
over her, and that she was as much
under His care at one time as another —
now in her solitude and danger, as when

she was in apparent safety and surrounded
by friends. The thought was comforting
and restful, and it gave her will strength
enough to conquer the almost ungovernable
nervous eagerness of the body to take
action of some kind or other.

Yet the longing she felt to look and see
what might be impending was very nearly
irresistible ; and the difficulty of forcing
her eyes to remain shut was increased by
the flashing of the light close to them.
She did all she could to keep her eyelids
closed in a natural manner ; but the rebellious
muscles would twitch a little in spite
of all her efforts to keep them still, and a
tremor quivered over them for an instant,
which did not pass unobserved by the
robber, and which made him increasingly
doubtful as to the genuineness of her
slumber. He hesitated, and watched her
attentively. Certainly she had every appearance
of being sound asleep, and in
that case there was no need for him to

take measures to keep her quiet. He
would much prefer not proceeding to
extremities, if it could be helped, and
desired nothing better than that she should
sleep through the whole business. But, of
course, his own safety must be his first
consideration, cost what it might ; and
what if she were shamming after all '^.

After pausing for about a minute — which
appeared to her at least an hour — he left
the bedside as if satisfied, and went to the
table. He appropriated her purse, which
was lying there, and then began noiselessly
opening the drawers to hunt for her
jewel-case. To abstain from looking at
him when his back was turned was too
much to expect of human nature, so she
ventured to open her eyes and watch his
movements. This was exactly what he
had calculated she would do, if not really
asleep, and had accordingly set a trap for
her, into which she now fell unsuspectingly.
By skilfully tilting the looking-glass,

he had so arranged it as to make
it reflect the lantern-hight straight into her
face ; and thus a glance into the mirror
immediately showed him the gleam of her
open eyes. He took no notice of this at
first, but went on quietly ransacking the
drawers till he had found what he wanted,
and also a few valuable rings and other
trinkets which had been left carelessly
lying about. All these he pocketed, and
then began to return to the bed ; and
it need hardly be said that her eyes were
re-closed with the utmost promptitude
directly he turned round in her direction.
Her fond hope of having imposed upon
him with her feigned slumber, however,
was rudely dispelled by these words ; and
as she listened to them they conveyed
to her mind a vague impression of some
kind of incongruity, as if the speaker's
voice was an assumed one, and as if the
vulgarity of his accent and manner did
not sit upon him quite naturally.

Stop quiet and yer safe enough ; but
if yer speaks so much as vun single word,
ril dash yer brains out vlth this 'ere Hfe-
preserver ! Oh, It ain't no use yer per-tendon'
to be asleep any longer ; I knows
better, for I seed yer in the glass even yer
wos a prin' at me.'

Perceiving the uselessness of carrying
on her attempt at deception, she opened
her eyes and looked at him, with a decided
feeling as to her tenure of life being
unpleasantly frail. Her fright, however,
did not prevent her from remembering
the importance of making such observations
as might enable her to give some
description of him, and to recognise him
hereafter, and she rapidly took in as
much as she could of his appearance.
The black mask which he wore kept any
part of his face from being visible. In
the left hand he held a lantern, and by its
light she noticed something that might
perhaps be an assistance to his identification,

she thought. This was that one
of the fingers was missing from the right
hand. In this hand was grasped a short,
wicked-looking bludgeon.

A life-preserver, does he call it ? '
thought she, with a shudder ; ' it looks a
deal more like a life-destroyer, to my mind.'

Now,' continued he, deliberately, and
with the same manner as before, as to
which she was quite puzzled to determine
whether it were natural to him, or put on
for the occasion, * don't yer speak nor
move, as yer valleys yer life, young
woman. I've a-got all as I wants, and
I'm a-going' ; and no doubt as yer be
thinking' to wait till I've cut my stick and
then raise the 'ouse upon me. Merry
party indeed — and don't yer wish as yer
may get it ? But I 'isn't no wish to
'arm yer, so before I goes, all I'll do is to
make yer safe, so to say. Now don't forget
wot I felled yer at must, and keep quiet for
yer life, 'kept jest to do as I tells yen'

Depositing his lantern on a small table,
he produced some cord from his pocket,
and ordered her to put her hands out of
bed. She dared not disobey, and with
the middle part of the rope he tied them
together securely ; next he made one end
of the rope fast to the foot and the other
end to the head of the bed so as to prevent
her moving away. Then he took
one of her own pocket-handkerchiefs and
tied it round her mouth, stuffing it in so
that she was unable to call out, and could
only breathe through her nose. When he
had finished gagging and imprisoning her
in this fashion he drew back a step and
surveyed the performance critically.

Might still wriggle yer *eat down to
yer 'hands and get loose that way, though
I don't think as its likely,' he observed.
I'd best tie back the 'eat too, and then
yer can't get free without 'help — not unless
yer be a medium, or one o' they Davenport
brothers as I've 'herd tell on. Don't

be afraid now, yer won't be strangled if
yer keeps quiet.'

So saying he made a running noose ina
piece of rope, passed it round her neck,
and secured it behind her so that it would
not hurt her as long as she lay still, but
would choke her if she pulled at it. As
soon as this was done he remarked facetiously
that he should be sorry to disturb
her any longer, and advised her to go to
sleep again now ; and then he departed
with his spoils.

Her first thought was one of genuine
and profound thankfulness at being still
alive and unhurt after the peril to which
she had been exposed ; then as his parting
words recurred to her they set her ideas
off in a fresh direction.

Advises me to go to sleep again, does
he ? ' thought she indignantly. As if that
could be possible when one's had such a
thing as this to excite one, and when, too,
one's fixed tight in one place by his nasty

ropes! Oh dear! don't I wish I were free,
and could jump up this moment, and give
the alarm, and have him caught and
punished as he deserves, and made to
give me back my things. It's quite horrid
to lie here and do nothing to interfere
with him, while he's going about as he
pleases. I wonder if he's satisfied with
what he's stolen already, or If he's doing
any other mischief in the house ? It's too
provoking to lie here tied up by the head
like a horse in the stables — can't I by any
possibility manage to get free ?/

A vague idea occurred to her that perhaps
if she could anyhow bring her feet
to bear upon one of the fastenings, that
might help her to regain her liberty, and
so she began to contort and writhe about
her body in hopes of accomplishing this.
But it was to no purpose. The thief had
not bungled his job of making her safe ;
and after she had nearly throttled herself
with the noose round her neck, she perceived

that there was nothing for it but
to wait till her maid Green should come
in the morning to release her. How astonished
Green would be ! Her face of horror
when she got to the bedside would be
as good as a play. Green would have a
bit of a triumph over her too, for before
leaving home they had had a grand discussion
as to what set of jewellery to bring
for the ball, and she had finally brought
her best diamonds and sapphires in spite
of Green's advice, the latter having wanted
her to wear another and less valuable set
which, in her opinion, matched best with
the ball - dress. Ethel now devoutly
wished she had taken Green's advice,
for the stolen set was a particular favourite
of hers. Would she ever see it again she
wondered ?

Then her thoughts went off in another
direction, as she remembered with no
little amusement her drowsy conviction a
short time ago that it could not possibly

VOL. I. H

be her business to trouble herself about
burglars when staying in another person's
house. It really was a disgustingly lazy,
selfish way of reasoning, which nobody
ought to have accepted contentedly even
In the very sleepiest condition. Well,
she had been nicely paid out for It anyhow,
and it was quite ludicrous to think how
promptly retribution had overtaken her.

She was usually disposed to take a fair,
and, for a woman, an impartial view of
events ; and as her habitual tranquillity
and disinclination to fuss gradually resumed
their sway and calmed down her
first excitement, she began to think that
the retribution part of the affair was
rather a joke, even although it had resulted
in her own discomfiture ; and she
could not resist a smile at the recollection
of the selfish and absurd logic which had
so completely satisfied her half-awake
condition, and for which she now had
to suffer.

Then she thought of nothing very particular
for a few minutes, till it suddenly
occurred to her that she was not quite
sure but what she might be getting sleepy ;
but she was so thoroughly convinced of
that being impossible that she dismissed
the Idea immediately ; she was quite positive
that she must inevitably lie awake till
morning, and that her rest was hopelessly
spoilt for that night.

Lying awake was dull, and she would
pass the time by speculating about the
burglar, and what likelihood there was
of her knowing him if ever she should
see him again. She did not at all want
to lose her diamonds and sapphires, to say
nothing of sundry other valuable articles
which he had carried off, and she greatly
hoped he would be caught. There had
been something about him which was not
altogether what she should have expected
such a man to be like in one or two ways,
and no doubt he had taken pains to disguise

his real identity on purpose to avoid
recognition. That would account for the
sort of unnaturalness that had struck her
in his voice, way of speaking, and pronunciation,
and also for the indefinable
impression of incongruity which he had
given her, so that she could almost have
fancied he was acting a part. Of course
this was caused by the constraint he put
upon himself in order to seem as different
as possible from what he really was ; and
it would make It all the harder for her to
know him again. She had often noticed
how apt people were not to correspond to
preconceived ideas about them, and she
certainly thought that this man was a
proof of the truth of that observation, for
he hadn't been exactly an embodiment of
her Idea of a burglar.

She had always taken It for granted
that such a person would be sure to have
coarse, rough hands, harsh to the touch,
and brown and dirty in appearance ;

whereas his had seemed to her to be
smooth and fine-texture when they had
rubbed against her face in gagging her,
and she could have almost declared, too,
that they were white, and looked like those
of a gentleman.

Yet there was not anything very surprising
In that either, when she came to
think about it ; for as anyone who was a
thief would have especial need for suppleness
In hands and fingers, he would be
likely to keep them constantly oiled,
greased, or something of that kind which
would probably make them soft and white.
Besides, she had been in a great deal too
much of a fright to have noticed such
things carefully, and could not really feel
at all certain of anything connected with
his hands except that there was a finger
off the right one. Indeed, as far as
touching her face went, she was by no
means positive that he had done so at
all, and that It might not have been only

her own soft handkerchief that she had
felt rubbing against her cheek. Since she
was a handkerchief, then, she supposed
she miofht as well —

Good gracious ! whatever could have
made her fancy herself a handkerchief?
Could she possibly have been going to
sleep ? She would be only too glad todo
so, for she cordially detested lying in
bed awake. But then, unluckily, sleep
was Impossible just now, she knew very
well, and she was doomed to watch
through the remainder of the night.

How uncomfortable it was to have one's
mouth stuffed full of handkerchief like this!
Still, matters might have been worse ; for
what if she had happened to have a cold
In her head which would have stopped
up her nostrils, so that she could not
breathe through them ? In that case she
really could not imagine what would have
become of her, with neither mouth nor
nose able to act as air passages, she must

certainly have smothered. He would have
been obliged to take that into consideration,
and leave her mouth open ; only-then
she would have been able to scream
and make a noise when he was gone.
Altogether it was a very perplexing question
to settle, and she could not think
what he would have done.

Further than this, her reflections did
not continue. Her repeatedly broken
slumbers returned to her again, and she
was conscious of nothing more till it was
time to get up in the morning, and she
woke to find Green standing beside the
bed with a look of horrified amazement
on her face, and a cup of tea in her
hand.

AN ARISTOCRATIC TOADY.

HEN Ethel had been invited by
her uncle, Mr Rhys, to stay
at Llwyn-yr-Allt for the Cwn-
Within function and ball, she had asked
if she might bring with her Lady Elise
Bolyn, who was paying her a long visit,
and whom she could not very well leave
alone ; and as the request had been
assented to readily, Lady Elise, also, was
amongst the number of Mr Rhys' guests.

She was the eldest daughter of the Earl
of Bolyn, was a few years older than
Ethel, and had no very great affection

for her own home. Her father was of
old family, and possessed a creditable stock
of ancestors ; but he was poor for a peer,
and she greatly disliked the various petty
economies that were practised In order to
keep up the semblance of wealth considered
necessary for the Earl of Bolyn.
As, furthermore, she did not get on well
with her mother, she took care to be at
home as little as possible, and was always
on the look-out to make friends with anyone
who rejoiced in the possession of
money and the comforts which It can
procure, with whom to establish herself
for good long visits.

In return for such hospitality, she was
quite prepared to sink her own individuality,
and would lay herself out to be
agreeable to uncongenial natures amongst
rich hosts with an amount of complaisance
which would not have been displayed towards
other people. Not that she allowed
to herself that she was a mere toady, or

put the motives for her actions before
her own mind in a broad, coarse way
that would have been derogatory to her
self-respect. She was above being dependant,
she thought, proudly ; an earl's
daughter, indeed ! Was it likely that she
should ever humiliate herself so greatly ?

But for all this pride of aristocratic
birth, she was certainly never guilty of
the folly of quarrelling with her bread
and butter in any way, and had a quite
surprising natural aptitude for accommodating
herself to the angles of anyone
who had the power of giving her the
enjoyments that she hankered after. To
such a person as Lady Elise, therefore,
Ethel was of course extremely attractive,
and her ladyship felt ardently impelled
to become the bosom friend of the heiress.
For this purpose she had of late been
taking much pains to Ingratiate herself
with Ethel, and appeared to some people
who did not know Miss Carton well too



be In a fair way to attain her object, seeing
that she had been a good deal with Ethel
in London during the last season, and
when that was over, had been Invited to
stay at Carton House, without any limit
for the visit being fixed, but with a sort
of tacit understanding that she was to
stay as long as she pleased. Thus, as
has been already mentioned, It had come
about that she had gone to Llwyn-yr-
Alltt in Ethel's train for the grand ball at
Cwm-Eithin.

When her maid brought her the news of
the burglary, she lost no time in leaving
bed and attiring herself, in order to hurry
off to the heiress's room, and condole
with her. Here was an event which
might, It seemed to her, prove an invaluable
opportunity for advancing towards
that close friendship which she was so
anxious to see established between herself
and Ethel. The nerves of the latter
could not fail to be unstrung, and her

whole system upset, by the shock of what
had taken place. She would be sure to
be in a state when a little petting, cherishing,
mental propping-up, and sympathy
would be particularly acceptable. It was
quite likely that she would be Inclined to
hysterics, shrinking from general society,
unfit to be worried about business, perhaps
unable to leave her room.

How welcome at such a moment would
be a faithful and zealous friend to soothe
the agitated nerves, and to be a comforter,
supporter, and medium of communication
with the rough outer world ! And how
delighted would Lady Elise be to perform
that part on the present occasion.
She would devote herself heart and soul
to her friend's interests, spare no pains
for her service, save her from all necessity
of coming in contact with other and less
sympathetic individuals ; be, in short,
even as a sister unto her. And in regard
to this last simile, it may be observed,

that when it passed through Lady Else's
mind, it must have referred rather to the
conventional ideal of that relationship than
to any personal experience of her own,
as to the feelings to which it eave rise.
For though she had sisters, yet she had
never shown any eagerness to fly to their
assistance when they got the measles, or
fell into any other kind of trouble, either
mental or bodily ; and had, to say the
truth, always been much more ready on
such occasions to consider her relations
as nuisances, and to grumble at them,
than to make the slightest effort to help
them, or to put herself out of the way on
their account.

Anticipating, then, that the burglary
would have given her an unexpectedly
good opening for making herself necessary
to Ethel, Lady Elise hastened to Miss Carton's
room, knocked at the door, and was
told to come in.

My dearest Ethel ! What is this that

I hear ? Can it possibly be true ? It
seems quite too horrible ? You poor, dear
thing ; how you must have suffered ! Are
you really still alive after it all ? '

Such were Lady Elise's exclamations
as she opened the door and entered the
room, eager to render all the devoted
attentions which she made sure her friend
must be in urgent need of. But the sight
that met her eyes when she was well into
the room was not at all what she had been
prepared for, and made her feel decidedly
disappointed. Instead of being in a condition
of hysterics and general collapse,
Ethel seemed no more nervous and
fluttered than if she had spent a night
of unbroken repose. With Green's assistance
she was calmly performing her
toilette as usual, and gave no indication
whatever of being likely to prefer shutting
herself up with a sympathetic friend, to
going downstairs to breakfast with the
common herd.

Well,' answered Ethel, smiling, ' of
course I can't say what you may have
heard, but, at all events, I'm altogether
uninjured and alive. Though I've been
robbed, yet the thief was a gentlemanly
creature, who, notwithstanding his threats,
used no brutal violence, and accomplished
his purpose with as little barbarity as was
possible. But if he spared me, he didn't
do as much for my jewels. There's my
favourite set of diamonds and sapphires
gone, amongst others, and who knows if
I shall ever get them back again. Isn't
it heart-breaking ? '

Oh, it's awful ! quite too altogether
awful ! ' cried Lady Elise. * And I can't
tell you how I pity you. That great
stone in the centre of the pendant was
simply the veriest love of a sapphire that
I ever did set eyes on. But, of course,
you'll have them back some day or other,
you know ; all the jewellers will know of
their being stolen, and so the thief won't

venture to take them for sale to anyone,
and then, sooner or later, they are certain
to be found in his possession, and brought
back to you.'

I only wish it may be so answered
Ethel ; * but I don't feel very hopeful in
the matter when I remember what stories
have been told of the ease with which
jewels can be taken out of their settings,
and disposed of abroad, so that all trace
of them is lost'

Ah, quite true ! ' returned Lady Elise.
I'd forgotten all about the foreign
jewellers ; I haven't such a memory as
you have. You really never do forget
anything I think ! But I'm quite surprised
to find you out of bed already, for
I felt positive you wouldn't think of getting
up just yet. You know, dearest,
that after such a shock as this fearful
robbery must have given you, a little
extra care of yourself is most indispensable,
for fear that else you may be the worse

for it afterwards. Surely you aren't thinking
of going downstairs as usual, now,
immediately, are you ? It would be far
more prudent to have your breakfast
quietly up here, and not expose yourself
to the fatigue and worry of society till
your poor nerves have had time to recover
themselves a bit. I'm sure no one could
wonder, or think it anything but the most
natural thing in the world for you to do.
And I shall be only too delighted to be
of use to you in any way possible, so you
needn't be bothered about business affairs,
if only you'll accept my humble services,
and let me see people for you and act on
your behalf. It'll be no trouble, but a
real pleasure to me to be able to help you
at all.'

It had certainly never entered Ethel's
head that there was a possibility of her
being expected to remain secluded, and
assume the part of an invalid, merely
because her trinkets had been stolen, and

VOL. I. I

her first impulse was to laugh at the notion,
and declare that she had never felt better
in her life. But when she found that Lady
Elise seemed seriously to regard it as a
matter of course that she should not be
equal to mixing in society just yet, she
was troubled by a momentary qualm of
doubt and uneasiness. It was always her
ambition to do whatever would be generally
considered the right thing. Indeed,
her anxiety on this point was carried to an
extent which was quite remarkable in a
person possessing as much originality and
strength of character as she did. At the
present moment, therefore, though she did
not feel the very smallest inclination to
stay upstairs, and was, on the contrary,
stirred by a faint curiosity to witness the
sensation created amongst people by her
adventure ; yet the idea that to eschew
society for a while was, perhaps, in the
eyes of the world, the correct course to be
pursued by a lady who had been robbed,

made her pause and hesitate before replying
to Lady Else.

A very few seconds of reflection sufficed
to bring her natural good sense to the
front, and show her the absurdity of affecting
to be an invalid when she was really
as well as possible. But she would on no
account run any risk of being thought
wanting in due decorum, so she was careful
to give no sign of the surprise and
inward amusement she had felt, as she
answered with the utmost sedateness, —

Thanks, very much indeed ; but I
think, on the whole, that I shall comedown
as usual. You see the man didn't
do me any bodily damage ; and besides, I
slept very comfortably after he was gone.
I didn't think that I should have, but I did
after all. Furthermore, I'm uncommonly
hungry this morning — though I don't
suppose any of us have a right to any
appetite, after the tremendous supper Sir
Cadwallader gave us last night — and I

never think breakfast's half nice when one
has it in one's own room ; do you ? '

Evidently the burglary was not going to
prove the splendid opportunity to Lady
Elise which she had hoped. Her little
castle in the air had crumbled away
promptly, and it only remained for her to
make the best she could out of the situation
as it was.

You don't mean to say you actually went
to sleep again ! ' she exclaimed, with enthusiastic
admiration. ' Why, you dear, brave
creature, I can hardly believe it possible.'

Yes, but I did though, really,' answered
Ethel. * You can ask Green if I wasn't
fast asleep when she came to call me.'

Oh, of course I believe it if you really say
so, without wanting any further evidence
than your word,' returned Lady Elise; 'but,
upon my word, Ethel, your pluck is something
too extraordinary, and your nerves
must be simply of iron. I'm convinced \ki2X
not one woman in a thousand, and very

few men, would have been able to sleep
the rest of the night after such a dreadful
affair. And yet you did ; and here you
are this morning just as quiet and composed
as if nothing out of the common had
happened to you. You're perfectly wonderful
; isn't she, Green ? '

Green simpered and coloured at this
appeal to her, and felt a little embarrassed.
When amongst her equals she did not
hesitate for a moment to express her
opinion freely about Miss Carton, or any
other Individual who might chance to be
mentioned. But to do so in the presence
of her superiors was quite a different
matter, and appeared to verge on a breach
of etiquette. If, on the present occasion,
she should assent to the proposition that
her mistress was wonderful, she had doubts
whether it would not imply a free-and-easy
sort of criticism that was unbecoming to
her station to indulge In, and might be
considered as taking a liberty. Still, It

would obviously never do to Ignore an
earl's daughter who had condescended to
ask her opinion. So Green replied with a
solemnity that was Intended to show how
far she was from treating the subject with
any approach to undue levity, —

I think so, my lady. And I only 'opes
as Miss Carton mayn't come to feel it too,
by-and-by, when, perhaps, there may come
a reaction.'

To find oneself considered heroic by
other people Is always gratifying ; and
from the glimmer of gentle complacency
which passed over Ethel's face, a physiognomist
would have rightly Inferred that
the tribute of admiration she was receiving
was not unacceptable to her. But yet her
satisfaction was a little spoilt by the fact
that in some secret recess of her soul
lurked a faint uncertainty as to whether,
perhaps, the composure with welch she
was credited was not owing as much to her
being of an easy-going, unemotional, and

rather lymphatic temperament, as to her
having any heroic pluck or power of self-control.
It might be so or not. She
really did not know ; and determined that
some day, when she had leisure, she would
set to work to think the subject out carefully,
and find out the truth about it.

This was an excellent resolution ; only,
unluckily, it eventually never came to anything
; for the very good reason that
directly after being made it went completely
out of her head, and never returned
there afterwards. None the less, however,
at the time of making it she had been quite
in earnest about meaning to put it in
execution, for she always wished honestly
to know the real truth about herself and
her qualities as far as might be possible todo
so. Any self-deception of which she was
guilty was really not her own fault so much
as that of the entourage and position, which
seemed, as it were, to thrust it upon her in
spite of herself Considering iiow habituated

she was to be treated as though she
were of different clay to average mortals,
it was hardly strange that she should be
gradually learning to consider it an indisputable
fact ; and it certainly spoke well
for her character that she should still be
capable of entertaining any doubts on the
subject.

On the present occasion there were so
many important things to occupy her
attention, that it was not surprising for
her speedily to have forgotten the self-examination
which she had determined
upon. Every detail of the robbery had to
be related ; the jewels, and the robber had
to be described as accurately as possible,
and all particulars had to begone into over
and over again, for the benefit of people
who, either as a matter of business, or else
from mere idle curiosity, wanted to know
exactly all that had happened. Indeed,
she got very tired of repeating the same
thine so often before she had done with

it ; but yet found some amount of compensation
for the annoyance in the novelty
of the sensation which she was creating.
It was so absolutely different from anything
she had ever done before. There
was, of course, nothing new to her in
attracting attention, and feeling herself to
be a central figure in whatever society she
might be ; but on no previous occasion had
she been able to feel that she had such a
really fair claim to the position as now.

To begin with, she had been robbed of
many thousand pounds' worth of jewellery,
which was a sufficiently uncommon occurrence
to be in itself almost a distinction.
Furthermore, she had, for the first time
in her life, taken part in a genuine, sensational
adventure. And as she looked back
on the events of the night, she could
reflect with satisfaction that her fright had
not been immoderate, and that even though
she might not have so acted as to deserve
all the extraordinary amount of glory that

A Burley.

Lady Ellse and others sought to attribute
to her, yet at all events she had got
through her adventure without disgracing
herself in any way, or giving way to unreasonable
terror.

IMOGEN HEARS OF IT.

SrW^lHE burglar had departed with
&M M^ Ethel's jewels without commits
o<L^^ ting further depredations, and as
his entrance and exit were made through
the window that Ralph and Imogen had
left open, no trace of his presence was
to be found anywhere in the house, except
in Miss Carton's bedroom. Consequently
no one knew or suspected anything
of what had occurred, until such time
as Green went to pay her usual morning
visit to her mistress, and found her gagged
and bound as has been told.

The moment Ethel was released, she
despatched Green to Mr Rhys, and as
soon as he heard of the burglary, he sent
off a messenger post haste to communicate
with the Cwm-Eithin police. But by that
time several hours had already elapsed
since the thief's departure, and as the
town was some miles off, there was a yet
further loss of time before any pursuit was
commenced. All this delay gave him a
good start, and his chances of escape were
increased by the fact that the local constables
were not remarkable for detective
talent, promptitude of action, or fertility of
imagination. It. was in his favour, too,
that the best description Ethel could give
of him was but a vague one ; for the loss
of one finger from the right hand was not
much to go by, and yet that was the only
really definite mark of identification that
she could furnish.

Meanwhile, by means of valets and
ladies'-maids, the news had quickly spread

through the whole household, and of course
created universal excitement.

When Imogen and Ralph returned from
Gwern pond, they sneaked in and upstairs
to their own rooms by the back
way without meeting any one ; and as
soon as the girl was in her room, she rang
the bell for her maid Millet, to assist in
that * respectability ' process which had
to be gone through before descending to
the dining-room for breakfast. On occasions
of this kind, it was Millet's wont to
put on a highly aggrieved air at beholding
the torn and sodden condition of the petticoats,
stockings, boots, and other garments
whereof she was the appointed guardian.
But on this particular morning she quite
forgot to give her customary signs of disapproval,
and was in an irrepressible state of
fluster and excitement which was plainly
visible to her mistress when she answered
the bell. Millet was an individual of whom
Ralph had once remarked with much truth

that she 'regularly wallowed in rapture
whenever she could be the first to tell a
bit of news ; ' and the more sensational it
was, the more she enjoyed relating it.
Now that the intelligence of the burglary
had been diffused so widely through one
establishment, it was an unhoped-for piece
of luck to meet with someone who the
still ignorant of it, and a sort of spasm of
joy thrilled through her, when in answer to
her remark, —

I repose hin corse, miss, as you've
'heard what 'ave 'happened ? '

Imogen made answer, —

'What has happened? I've not heard
of anything particular, or likely to put you
into such a state of commotion as you
seem to be in.'

There 'ave been a burglary, miss
replied Millet ; and as she spoke her face
and manner expressed alternately the intense
relish which she experienced in
telling such a startling piece of news, and

the grave horror which she thought would
be the fitting frame of mind in which to
approach the subject of so heinous a crime.
Oh, it's reply quite shocking to think of!
And you not to 'ave 'heard of it yet — just
look at that now ! Which it was the very
remark as I passed to Mrs Lamb when
she come to my apartment for to talk it
hover with me. 'As my young lady gone
to pore Miss Carting, says I ? — those was
my own words to 'er. But Mrs Lamb,
she's one of them that'll always try and
snap one hup has his one 'ad said something
foolish, so she said, says she, as
short has you please, — 'Ow should she 'ave
gone there, or 'heard anything hat all loathe
matter, and she lout of the 'ouse hall
the time, and not come back to this blessed
minnie ? But no matter for 'er a snapping
of me hup like that — I mortified 'er afterwards,
I did — I mortified 'er hat the
breakfast-table.'

Well, never mind about all that said

Imogen impatiently, cutting short the
account of how Mrs Lamb had been
mortified that seemed impending. ' What
about the burglary? and what about Miss
Carton ? '

Yes, that's jest what I am telling you
hof, miss, as fast as I can butter the words,'
replied Millet, without the faintest consciousness
of having been in any way led
aside from her original theme. ' Hit's
quite dreadful as such people can be in the
world, I do declare. To think as this
'ouse 'ave been broke into, and Miss
Carting's room entered, and hall 'er
lovely pools took, and she seen the maner
own self, and 'e tied 'er 'ands and feet
together, pore thing ! and put an 'handkerchief
in 'er mouth, and fastened 'er down
in bed so as she shouldn't move nor butter
a sound while 'e got clear hoff! And
there she was this morning fast asleep,
if you can believe it, miss, when Miss
Green took 'er in 'er cup of tea. Leastways,

so Miss Green says. But Sir
Charles' gentleman says as 'e reply cant
believe that — and indeed it seems so
altogether impossible that I can't 'help
'having some doubts myself as to the
accuracy of the statement.'

'Was Miss Carton hurt in any ways
Imogen quickly, with a rush of
colour to her face that showed her anxiety
lest any harm should have been done to
her cousin.

Oh no replied Millet ; ' she's totally
uninjured, Miss Green says — not a
scratch, nor a bruise, nor nothing.'

This assurance relieved Imogen's mind,
and she proceeded without further remark
to change her clothes and get ready for
breakfast. An elaborate toilette was a
thing which she looked down upon as
frivolous and ridiculous, for she had not
yet attained to that love of dress which
most women have from their earliest childhood.
Consequently the style of dressing

VOL. I. K

which she preferred was more rapid than
elegant ; and when left to her own devices
In the matter, she was apt to appear with
her hair parted all awry, the edge of her
petticoat protruding below her gown, the
front and side of her skirt twisted so that
each had usurped the place of the other,
and a general look of having had her
clothes 'put on with a pitchfork,' as Millet
expressed it.

Of course when the maid was v/Ith
her, that official never allowed such untidiness
; but as the extra time that was
taken up by her carefulness was always
a sore trial to Imogen, whilst, on the
other hand, the young lady's want of
vanity, and indifference to her personal
appearance, were a continual source of
grievance to Millet, therefore It naturally
resulted that the periods devoted to dressing
were generally rather purgatorial times
to both mistress and maid.

It's my belief,' Millet would declare to

a sympathising audience of other maids,
'that I might send Miss HImojin down
with 'er glove on top of 'er 'ed, and she
wouldn't know it ! no ; nor yet his 'er
gown was made wrong side up, and put
on wrong side in front ! She don't know
a bit what clothes she 'ave, and don't
never think as a thing's wore out so long
as it'll 'old together somehow or anyhow.
I never see the like of 'er in hall my
born days before. She'll take and read
hall the time I'm dressing 'er 'air, and
never give so much has one single lookin
the glass to see what I'm doing horse's
a good young lady enough in many
ways, and I will say for 'er as she isn't
that mean, and nasty tempered, and spying
as many is. But still, to a maid as
takes a proper pride in 'er profession, it's
'art breaking to serve a lady like that as
'isn't a scrap of interest In 'ow she looks.
When I see 'er sometimes hafter sleeve
been dressing hof 'herself, I feel that

ashamed hof 'er that reply it's as much
as I can do to bring myself to hac-knowledge
'er as belonging to me hat
hall ! '

On this particular morning, Imogen
found it even harder than usual to remain
tranquil during the time required
by Millet to perform her office ; for the
girl was longing to rush off to see if she
could do anything for Ethel, and to satisfy
herself personally as to her cousin's safety.
It had been her first impulse to do this
directly she had been told of what had
happened ; but she had been restrained
by the fear of not perhaps being wanted
just then, and of appearing to be over-fussy
; for the sort of adoration which she
had lately begun to feel for Miss Carton
was mingled with a considerable amount
of awe.

Imogen, on the verge of the line dividing
her present from her future condition,
when she should be *come out,'

had, as it were, looked across the boundary
to reconnoitre the inhabitants of that other
sphere which she was shortly to enter,
and which was so different from the careless,
unconventional, running-wild state of
existence she had hitherto known. Upon
the male denizens of the new country she
had bestowed no attention, feeling perfectly
certain that she should never care
to marry, and being absolutely devoid of
that inclination for flirtation which nature
commonly implants in a woman's breast.
But it had been different in regard to
those of her own sex ; these had seemed
more interesting to her, and now and then
as occasion offered, she had observed them
with a closeness that was quite unsuspected
by the objects of her study. The
result of her observations had been unsatisfactory,
and she was disgusted with
what she believed to be the characteristics
of the whole body of those who were to
be her future female companions.

Petty vanities, silly little airs and graces,
recognised conventional insincerities, and
other similar small matters were things of
which she was intolerant with the intense
intolerance of a child ; and as she had
frequently detected these fallings amongst
'come out' young ladies, she had come
to the hasty conclusion that they were all
alike, that they were but a poor and despicable
set of creatures, and that the more
essentially feminine they were, so much
the more thoroughly contemptible were
they likely to be.

Proof of the over-hastiness of this conclusion,
however, was not long in coming
to her, for she suddenly began to discover
that one of the despised class had a
strange fascination for her, and it was
soon evident that one who was pretty,
graceful, and feminine, had nevertheless
been able, without effort on her own part
to quicken into life the capacity for romantic
attachment which exists somewhere

or other in the composition of most people,
but which in Imogen had till now lain
dormant. The person who had unconsciously
performed this feat was Ethel.
Her money had had nothing to do with
it, for Imogen was as yet too innocent
of worldly-mindedness to be in any
degree mercenary ; it was something in
Ethel's own self that had captivated
her, and begun to evoke in her breast
a feeling that she had not before experienced.


Any kind of devoted friendship or
attachment that could possibly be called
sentimental, had hitherto been made fun
of mercilessly by Imogen because it had
seemed to her unreal. She had never
had such a feeling herself, and did not,
therefore, believe that other people had
it either. But now she beo^an to look at
the matter differently, as personal experience
taught her the necessity of admitting
sentiment to be a real component

part of human nature. She looked upto
Ethel enthusiastically, as a being for
her to worship from a position of wide
inferiority without any expectation of reciprocal
affection. For Ethel to care
about her and be friendly with her in a
cousinly fashion was, of course, no more
than the natural result of their relationship
to one another; but Imogen would have
deemed it the height of presumption for
her to think it likely that she could call
forth any warmer feeling than that from
one so far above her as Ethel. To belong
to the same family as Miss Carton was
to Imogen a source of happiness, because
she was thereby enabled naturally to be
on a more intimate footing with her idol
than if they had been unconnected by
any tie of blood. But this pleasant sense
of cousinly familiarity was not strong
enough to overcome the shyness which,
on the present occasion, withheld her
from hurrying off to Ethel the instant

that she heard of the burglary, as she
would have dearly liked to do.

Imogen reflected that every one else
would be likely to do that, and to go
clamouring for an account of what had
happened, and making a tremendous fuss
and bother. She herself had always had
a horror of making a fuss about things,
or indulging in special demonstrations of
excitement ; and this tendency to undemonstrativeness
had been encouraged by
noticing the habitual placidity of Ethel's
demeanour, which she had attributed to
Ethel's being of the same mind as herself
in the matter. It would never
do, she thought, for her to be as ridiculously
fussy as the majority of man
and woman kind, and to cause herself
to be ranked amongst them as such in
Ethel's mind.

So she controlled her impatience, and
would not allow herself to stir in the
direction of the person whom she was

longing to see, until Millet's ministrations
were at an end, and she was
fully attired In her best clothes In honour
of the company staying In the house.

Then she set off towards her cousin's
room ; but paused after a few steps, debating
In her own mind whether It might
not be even better to wait till she should
meet Ethel downstairs In the ordinary
course of events, rather than to pay an
unwonted bedroom visit which might,
perhaps, be thought to betoken an undue
disposition to fullness, and so lower her
in the esteem of the Individual whose
good opinion she most desired to win.
She was standing In the passage, considering
this Important question, when
the matter was settled for her by the
appearance of Ethel and Lady Ellse on
their way down to breakfast.

Good morning,' said Imogen, brusquely,
and manifesting not the least symptom of
being In any particular manner Interested

or excited. ' So there you are, Ethel !
Is it true you've been burgled ?'

Yes, indeed, alas ! ' returned Ethel,
with a look of comically exaggerated
woe. ' A whole lot of my treasures
have been carried off, and amongst them
one of my favourite and most valuable
sets.'

What a horrid bore for you,' replied
Imogen, laughing at the deplorable face
Ethel had assumed. * However, you
look all serene after it, so I conclude
you didn't get any way damaged, did
you ? '

Oh no, not a bit,' responded the
heiress ; * you shall hear all about it by-and-by
; only I want my breakfast before
I do much talking, for the robbery,
or the ball, or something or other, has
given me a sharp appetite this morning.'

Come along then — I've ditto,' answered
Imogen. ' Grub's bound to be in by now,
for the bell went some time aofo.'

And with these words she and the other
two ladies descended to the dining-room,
each one of them presenting an aspect
of being unemotional that was peculiar
to herself, and different to that of her
companions. Imogen was so in appearance
only ; Lady Elise, on the contrary,
was inwardly indifferent though she
thought fit to make a great show of
excitement in order to be credited with
the sympathetic interest of devoted friendship
; and Ethel was calm and unmoved
both inwardly and outwardly, because it
was her nature to be so.

AN INSPECTION OF FINGERS.

MONGST the visitors staying
at Llwyn-yr-Allt was a barrister,
named Trevor Owen,
who, Hke Lady Elise Bolyn, thought the
burglary might possibly prove a very
opportune misfortune, and hoped to reap
some profit to himself from it. His father
was a peer more blessed with children
than with materials to support them ; and
Trevor, being a younger son with his
own living to gain, had adopted the law
as his profession. Briefs, however, are
apt not to rain very plentifully upon

a man who has no family connection
amongst attorneys, and whose brains and
general capacities are in no wise above
those of any other average specimen of
humanity ; and Trevor soon arrived at
the conclusion that the simplest and most
expeditious means of providing for himself
would be to marry a rich wife.

Could he have chosen his parentage,
he would unquestionably have preferred
to be the son of a rich commoner who
could give him an ample portion, rather
than that of a poor viscount from whom
he derived little except a handle to his
name. But as this misfortune of his
birth was evidently irremediable, he did
not waste time in fruitless lamentations
over it, and set himself wisely to make
the best of such advantages as had been
afforded him. Though the honourable
prefix which was his birthright would
certainly not of itself suffice for food and
clothing, yet still, by skilful management,

he thought it might be made to conduce
to the attainment of those necessaries.
It was inferior to money, no doubt ; but
yet it could justly be considered as an
article of marketable value, since it conferred
upon its owner a precedence and
position which many women find irresistibly
attractive, and which might greatly
assist him in the wooing of such a helpmate
as he desired. In other respects,
also, he had qualifications to make him
agreeable in the eyes of society in general,
and women in particular. He was an excellent
dancer, and, being only twenty-eight
years of age, was not yet too old
for a keen enjoyment of that amusement
and a good partner is always an acceptable
individual. Besides this, he invariably
had plenty to say for himself, dressed well,
was tall, and by no means ugly, even
though not to be called positively handsome.


The chief drawback to his personal

appearance was a peculiar air which he
always had of wanting to know more of
everything than other people did. This
air is generally Inseparable from the wearing
of eye-glasses, and renders their Indiscriminate
use undesirable — since even
the least curious of mortals with an
eye-glass stuck in his or her eye must
Infallibly look as though anxious for an
undue share of Information about things.
But though Trevor Owen wore no glass,
none the less had he the inquisitive look
which that appendage conveys ; and no
one who had once seen him could doubt
his being a bit of a Paul Pry. There was
really nothing that he did not want to
know ; and when he had regretted out
all he could about anything, he seemed
always to be troubled by a conviction
that the most valuable and Interesting
part of the information still remained untold.
He took good care, however, that
his curiosity should never stand in his

light, or give offence to those by whose
displeasure he could be Injured ; and
altogether he seemed as likely to be a
successful suitor for a woman's hand as
the majority of men going about the
world in search of wives.

Such an heiress as Ethel was, of course,
a most Interesting individual in his eyes ;
but though he knew her by report well
enough, he had never had a chance of
becoming acquainted with her until the
time of his present visit to Llwyn-yr-Allt,
when he was greatly rejoiced to find that
she also was amongst Mr Rhys' guests.

Determined to make the most of the
opportunity, Trevor, ever since his arrival,
had been doing everything he could think
of that seemed likely to produce a favourable
impression of him on the young lady's
mind ; and the moment he heard of the
burglary, he began to reflect on how to
turn it to good account.

In the first place he sniffed a brief. If

VOL. I. L

he could contrive to display advantageously
what legal knowledge he possessed, and
give her a good opinion of his ability, zealand
sagacity, there would be a reasonable
chance of her instructing her solicitors to
employ him for the prosecution whenever
the burglar should be caught. Besides
that, it was an affair that was sure to attract
public attention and be very much talked
about, so it would be a good advertisement
to him to get his name mixed up with it
as much as possible from the very beginning.
And finally, supposing she could
be induced to trust him as a lawyer, might
not the professional connection lead eventually
to a yet closer and more tender tie
between them ? Such things had happened
to other barristers before now ; so why
not to him as well as another ? Feeling
convinced that he would be an idiot if he
could not manage to profit in some way
or other by the robbery, he lost no time
in placing his services at Miss Carton's disposal,

and offering to assist in investigating
into all that concerned the loss of her jewels.
His offer was accepted readily. The
police had not yet had time to arrive ; and
it seemed to Ethel as if a barrister would
be the next best thing to a policeman
under the circumstances. It gave hera
vague sense of confidence to know
that there was on the spot some one acting
for her, whose professional experience
made him likely to know all about the
detection of crime and criminals. The
only other representative of the law who
was in reach at that moment was her
uncle, Mr Rhys, who was a magistrate.
But she knew that he was by no means
active in his magisterial duties, and thought
it extremely probable that whatever
knowledge of legal matters he had ever
had, was become rusty through want of
practice ; therefore she was inclined to
think that the wide-awake looking young
barrister, fresh from the law courts, was

more likely to be of use to her at present
than any other person who was available,
and she was gratified to have his energies
working on her behalf.

This he was quick to perceive, and at
once proceeded to act in such a way as
should make it impossible to doubt that
his whole heart and soul were in the case
he had undertaken, and that he had identified
himself with it as completely as though
his own interests had been involved.
Having asked leave to cross-examine her
as a necessary preliminary, he performed
that operation in a manner that was a
happy combination of the sympathising
friend with the hard-headed, practical man
of business, and thus elicited all the information
she could give as pleasantly as
possible. Next he explored the whole
house thoroughly, and examined rooms,
staircases, passages, windows, doors, and
fastenings without end — which looked
business-like at all events, even though it

did not bring to light anything more than
was already known about the robbery.
Then he went to the smoking-room window,
which, having been wide open, had naturally
been supposed from the first to have
been the chiefs way In and out of the
house ; upon this window Trevor concentrated
his attention for some time — standing
with his head stuck on one side like a
magpie, viewing the place from both Inside
and out, and taking notes of every dent,
notch, or scratch that was to be discerned
on paint, wood or stone near the window.
Furthermore he asked Innumerable questions
(many of which appeared to the uneducated
minds of those who were not
lawyers to be utterly Irrelevant) of every
member of the household ; and altogether
he left no stone unturned to demonstrate
the devouring eagerness that he felt to
hit upon some clue that might lead to
the detection of the villain who had robbed
Miss Carton.

One of the thief's fingers was missing
from the right hand. Well ; that was a
very important point to start from, and
would throw grave suspicion upon anyone
who might be discovered in the vicinity in
that maimed condition. It could do no
harm to make absolutely sure of the
innocence of every one who was within
immediate reach, and with Mr Rhys' permission,
Trevor proposed at once to pass
in review the hands of every person then
in the house — whether visitor or servant —
in order to investigate their number of
fingers. Mr Rhys stared, and hummed
and hawed, being in truth not quite pleased
at having the command of affairs in his
own house thus taken from him by this
extremely energetic young man, whose
ideas were so much more ready than Mr
Rhys' own. As, however, he could not
think of any valid objection to the proposal,
orders were given to carry it into
effect, and the whole establishment was

speedily paraded before Mr Owen. So
suspicious of every one was that gentleman,
and so determined to do his work quite
thoroughly, that ocular evidence alone was
not enough for him, and he insisted on
submitting every finger to the test of
being pinched and pulled by him before
he would be satisfied that it was real, live,
flesh and blood.

Supposing a robber to be short of a
finger, he'd be very likely to have a sham
one,' he observed knowingly ; ' and if so,
he'd wear it as a rule, so that no one
should know of his deficiency ; then he
could take it off by way of a blind when
he wanted to do business, you see.'

The finger-inspection produced a great
sensation amongst the servants — especially
the maids — and gave rise to mingled feelings
of wrath and mirth. It was both
insulting and ludicrous to have a gentleman
prying into and feeling their hands,
and supposing that one of them might

possibly have been Miss Carton's robber ;
and the females resented the supposition
all the more because it of course involved
also the belief that they were capable of
having donned male attire — which idea
was an immense shock to the sensibilities
of most of them.

'Ow dare 'e leven think such a thing ! '
said Millet indignantly ; * but there — they
barristers is mostly a low lot, as it stands
to reason they should be when you think
of the inferior sort of parties has they be
always coming in contact with. And
though Mr Owen is by birth a Honourable
and a reel gentleman, yet when 'e
demeans 'himself to take up with a profession
like lawyers, why, in corse, 'e soon
comes down to the level of the rest of 'is
trade.'

All the maids had a strong sense of the
forwardness' of the position which caused
them to be much oppressed with shyness ;
and this found expression and relief in

foolish simpers, blushes, suppressed giggles,
or uneasy contortions of the body, according
to the temperament of the Individual
under examination. Mr Owen, however,
was quite superior to feeling awkward or
bashful about anything whatever that had
to do with collecting evidence for a case,
and proceeded as calmly with his hand-researches
amongst total strangers as if he
was in the habit of conducting such things
every day of his life. He was drawing
near the end of his task, and had discovered
no deficiency of fingers anywhere,
when he was struck by a look that came
into the face of a heavy-looking girl whose
hands he had just examined. A gleam of
Intelligence came Into her eyes, her stupid
face partially lighted up, and her mouth
opened. From these signs he Inferred
that some bright Idea had invaded her
mind and was about to Issue from her lips,
so he paused to hear what would come.
But to his disappointment the mouth

merely gave vent to an Inarticulate sound,
and was then again shut up tight.

Well, what were you going to say ?
he asked sharply ; 'out with it.'

That a thought had suddenly struck the
girl was perfectly true ; but yet she had no
wish or intention of communicating it to
the strange gentleman. Ideas being of
rare occurrence in her mind, when one
had actually come there it had quite taken
her by surprise, and she had been on the
point of blurting it out at once as freely as
she would have done if in the company
only of friends in her own station of life.
But before she could so, her slowly working
brain had evolved a second thought
which had checked the impulse to speak.

What if the thing she had thought of
was to bring Richard Richards into troubles
Indeed, it would be a pity to do that. If
so be as 'twas he as was the thief, she'd
no wish to save him, not she ; but still it
didn't seem right to go and put this gentleman

as she didn't know after a neighbour,
neither. If Richards was the man they
wanted, they'd be sure to find him out for
themselves fast enough without her help,
and serve him right too ! — but she
shouldn't like to think as shed been the
one to set them on his heels.

The result of her meditations was, that
she held her tongue steadily, though becoming
extremely red and confused as
Trevor Owen repeated his question several
times in the vain hope of extracting an
answer.

Who's that girl ? ' said he, turning impatiently
to the butler, who was assisting
him. ' Make her answer me, can't you ?
I'll swear she's got something to say. I
saw it in her face just now, only she's shy,
or frightened, or something, and won't let
it out.'

Polly Thomas, sir, that is,' replied the
butler. * She don't belong to us regular,
but comes in now and again to wash up a

bit when the work's in any ways entry,
such as company staying here. Why don't
you speak, Polly, and answer the gentleman,
like a good girl ? '

In Polly's eyes the butler was a person
of almost more dignity and consequence
than anyone else in the house — even including
Mr Rhys — and to disobey his orders
was an act of daring hardly possible to
contemplate. Still she could not bear to
go against her sense of what was due to a
neighbour who was on friendly terms with
her and hers ; therefore she remained
silent, shuffling her feet to and fro, blushing,
rolling and unrolling her apron round
her hands, and giving other similar indications
of the excessive nervousness and discomposure
which she was experiencing.

This reticence was by no means approved
of by the bystanders, who were
greatly excited on the subject of the burglary,
and caught eagerly at anything
which seemed to offer a chance of throwing

fresh light upon the mystery. Further
pressure was put upon her, not only by the
butler and Mr Owen, but by the other servants
also, and on all sides she heard whispers
of ' Speak you, Polly.' * What is it ? '
Tell, girl, tell,' etc. This pressure was
more than she could stand, and she finally
gave way before the potent engine of the
public opinion of her own class.

It came out at last, therefore, that all
the fuss about fingers had suddenly reminded
her about Richard Richards, for
she knew there was something looked odd
about one of his hands. She hadn't never
taken no notice of what it was, not she,
and wasn't sure but what it might be a
finger gone from it as he had. That was
all as she'd been thinking of.

This was deemed by Mr Owen quite
worth inquiring into further. Who was
Richard Richards } he asked immediately.
And where did he live ? Trevor soon
learnt that Richards was a collier with a

wife and children, that he lived not far
beyond Mr Rhys' property, and that that
gentleman held him in abhorrence and
believed him capable of any iniquity, because
he was a notorious poacher.

The next step to take, in Mr Owen's
opinion, was to proceed at once to Richards'
cottage, find out if he had a proper
complement of fingers, and if not, try to
ascertain where he had spent the preceding
night. Would it be too much to ask Miss
Carton to accompany this reconnoitring
expedition, if she were equal to that
amount of fatigue after the terribly trying
events of the night ? Her presence might
be of great advantage, as, perhaps, they
might be fortunate enough to see the man
himself ; and if she were to be able to pronounce
positively either for or against him,
waste of time over a false scent might thus
be avoided. Perhaps Mr Rhys would be
able to spare a carriage to take her ?
She replied graciously that she felt quite

equal to going to the cottage, and should
prefer to go on foot, as she always liked
to have a walk on the morning after a
ball, if possible ; and with that she went
to put on her things without loss of time.
As soon as she was gone Mr Rhys and
Mr Owen had a slight sparring match as
to whether or not the former gentleman
should be of the party going to the cottage.
Trevor wanted to manage everything
himself and let Miss Carton see
how well he did it, and he feared that
Mr Rhys' coming might relegate him
to the second place ; therefore he tried
to impress upon his host the importance
of staying in the house in order to give
any directions that the police might require,
and made every suggestion he could
think of that might induce Mr Rhys to
remain at home.

Mr Rhys, however, had no intention
of doing anything of the kind. As being
a magistrate for that district, Ethel's uncle,

and also master of the house where the
burglary had been committed, he felt that
he was in every way entitled to take the
lead in all that was done, and to decline
being pushed aside by this meddlesome
young fellow who seemed to think no
one knew anything but himself. So he
announced positively that he meant to
accompany his niece to the cottage and
make the necessary inquiries as to Richard
Richards, in such a manner as to put an
end to further discussion of the matter ;
and Trevor Owen had to resign himself
to a companion, whose presence he would
gladly have dispensed with.

He had not done badly so far, however,
having, undoubtedly, contrived to show
himself to be a very energetic young
fellow, and to display an ardour on Miss
Carton's behalf which disposed her to
regard him favourably. For few people
dislike to feel that their interests are being
looked after by a sharp, active, businesslike

person, who may be relied upon not
to let the grass grow under his feet ;
and that was just the impression of his
character which he had managed to give
her.

VOL. I.

M

THE SUPERIORITY OF RED INDIANS.

T may be remembered that Ralph
had announced his intention to
spend the day in trout-fishing,
and that Imogen had made up her
mind to accompany him. Accordingly,
they went off as soon as they could after
breakfast to prepare the fishing-tackle for
the proposed expedition ; but whilst they
were in the midst of their preparations,
they were interrupted by their father. The
general commotion produced by the burglary,
and a vague sense that he ought todo
something, but did not quite know what,

had by this time worked Mr Rhys into
an uncomfortably fidgety condition, and
he was inclined to be annoyed at anyone's
supposing it possible to go on in the same
way as usual without regard to the important
event that had occurred.

Where were Ralph and Imogen off to
now ? Fishing in the Dwrwen ? Oh,
nonsense ! It was out of the question
for Ralph to go away from home to-day ;
he must stay and make himself useful.
There would be the police coming presently,
and inquiries to make, and directions
to give, and fifty things to do and
see to in consequence of all this bother
about the robbery ; and then there was
the ball party staying in the house to be
looked after and entertained as well, and
altogether the fishing must absolutely be
postponed to some other day when the
boy could be spared. He was wanted
to help about something at that very
moment ; and so the son was carried

off then and there by his father to assist
about some trifling matter or other, which
would, on ordinary occasions, have been
considered quite unimportant, but which
was caused by Mr Rhys' present state
of fussiness to assume unnaturally large
proportions.

Thus Imogen, to her great annoyance,
found herself suddenly deprived of her
companion, and also of the day's outing
to which she had been confidently looking
forward. She began to think it was decidedly
a mistake to be in a house where
a burglary had just taken place. It was
liable to interfere with one's plans, however
unconcerned one might be with it ;
and besides that, it put every creature
except herself into a state of flutter and
excitement which was simply intolerable.
She was quite sick of all the nonsense
she had heard talked about the all-engrossing
subject, and could not imagine
how people could care to go on making

the endless, ridiculous, and unpractical
surmises and suggestions that were resounding
in all parts of the establishment.
And all the effusive sympathy and condolences
that were poured in upon Ethel,
too ! Imogen did not in the least believe
in the sincerity of the greater part of them,
and could not understand how anyone had
the patience to listen to such humbugging
stuff quietly. Of course these strangers
couldn't really care so very much about
her cousin's loss, and so whatever was the
use of pretending such a lot of publishing,
good-for-nothing interest ? She regarded
all the commotion with a lofty contempt,
and wondered how people could condescend
to allow themselves to be so easily
moved, and to behave in such a foolish
manner.

What was the good of civilisation, if
civilised beings made such gushing, affected
fools of themselves ? Having recently
read The Last of the Mexicans, she

knew perfectly well that those admirably-brave
and stoical people, the Red Indians,
deemed all violent demonstrations of excitement
undignified, and thought that
Wash ! ' was an amply sufficient expression
of opinion under all circumstances.
Well ! and quite right too. It seemed
to her that these savages were out and
away superior to the silly, chattering, emotional
products of civilisation amongst
whom she lived, whose sentiments were
all on the surface and wanted for show.
Such people could not ever feel things
really, genuinely, and deeply at all ; since
when a feeling was frittered away and
spread about in all directions it must lose
its power as a stick would do if cut up
into little bits — it would be simply worthless
! she was glad to think that she, at
all events as yet, hadn't been caught and
tamed and made just like all the rest of
the world ; she still had enough of the
barbarian in her not to want to talk when

she had nothing but intensely stupid and
meaningless words to utter ; nor yet to
affect exaggerated, unreal feelings because
other people did so, or because it might
be thought the right thing to do. Wash !
was a most impressive remark if grunted
in a properly expressive tone ; and Red
Indians had altogether the best of it, in
her judgment.

Having thus worked herself up into a
highly intolerant and misanthropical (as
far as civilisation was concerned) frame of
mind, she began to reflect upon what she
should do with herself at the present
moment, and how she should spend the
day. Staying indoors in fine weather was,
of course, a thing not to be contemplated
for an instant ; nor yet would she remain
within reach of any of these fine, civilised
folk whose senseless chatter provoked her.
She would take her beloved butterfly net,
put a book in her pocket, get right away
where she would be able to be by herself,

and pass her time In nothing or reading as
the fancy took her. There were nuts to be
had now, and she loved nuts. She might
gather a handful of them, climb up to the
tree-sofa, and lie there contentedly eating
nuts and reading for as long as she liked
without the least fear of being disturbed by
objectionable fellow-creatures, for no one
knew of the place except herself and
Ralph. And here it may be as well to
remark for the reader's benefit, that what
she and Ralph denominated the tree-sofa,
was a place at the top of a tree where the
boughs crossed and intercrossed one
another so as to form a sort of rough
couch whereon a person could recline at
full length. It was much frequented by
Imogen in hot weather, and she would
often lie there for hours in perfect satisfaction
with an amusing book to read,
whilst the birds flew close to her,
twittering and singing but never heeding
her presence, and the wind gently swayed

the boughs beneath her, and blew to and
fro the over-hanging leaves, so that the
sunlight now came dancing over her face
and book, and now left her in the shade.

The first thing to be done was to go
and pick the nuts. Armed with her
butterfly-net, she was about to sally forth,
when she remembered that she had not
got the book which she meant to take, and
which stood on a shelf in the front hall.
She was proceeding in search of it when
she met Ethel, who had just come downstairs
with her walking things on, ready
to set out for Richard Richards' cottage.

Oh, so you're going out too, are you,
Im ? ' said Ethel pleasantly. ' There's
some poor man near here whom uncle
Rhys and Mr Owen think may possibly
know more than he should do about where
my stolen jewels are, and we're going to
inspect him ; come with us, won't you .'^ '

Imogen hesitated. At that particular
moment she was eminently out of charity

with civilisation In general, and It appeared
to her that to go walking with some of the
swells ' when she had Intended to go nutting
and tree climbing, would be inconsistent
with her principles, and a dangerously
near approach to consenting of her
own free will to be, as It were, caught
and tamed — that Is to say, reclaimed from
the condition of running wild that she delighted
in, and knew to be abhorrent to all
her friends except Ralph. Had the invitation
to join the party come from anyone
except Ethel, she would have refused it
promptly ; but could she say no to anything
that Ethel proposed ?

I don't know about that,' answered
Imogen, rather ungraciously. ' I'm going
nothing.'

Well, never mind the moths for once,'
returned Ethel, without being at all offended
at the grumpy manner of one
whom she knew to be somewhat eccentric,
and was inclined to like, notwithstanding.

You can catch them another day ; besides,
perhaps there'll be some where weare
going. Do come ; I want you to

Imogen's savagery was not proof
against this persuasion from a person
whom she regarded with that extreme
admiration and veneration sometimes felt
by a girl of sixteen or so for one a few
years older, and with which, as has been
already said, Ethel had unconsciously and
involuntarily inspired her young cousin.
Imogen felt it deliciously flattering to be
thus pressed to accompany the object of
her worship, and after pausing in indecision
for an instant, she replied, — ' All right.
I'll come then. I daresay I'll be able to
kick up a moth or so somewhere or other
on the way.' Might not being caught and
tamed be differently regarded, and even
possibly considered as endurable, provided
that Ethel were to be the captor ?

There was also in the front hall a third
person, who had listened with interest to

the short colloquy between the cousins,
and whose own movements were affected
by Imogen's decision to accompany Miss
Carton. This third individual was a young
man named Sir Charles Dover, who was
amongst the visitors invited to Llwyn-yr-
Alltt for the last night's ball. He had been
loitering about for the last ten minutes,
feeling acutely conscious that he had nothing
very particular to do, and wondering
how he should dispose of his time. What
he wanted was to go out to play lawn
tennis, walk, ride, or take some exercise
or other ; only he did not care about going
alone, and could not find anyone of the
same mind to be his companion. No one
seemed to have any present intention at
all of going out except the three who were
going to the cottage ; and he was shy of
joining them unasked, because their errand
seemed to invest them with a sort of important,
private, business-like halo which
he feared to break in upon ; besides, he

had never met the heiress till the evening
before, and held her In no Httle awe.

But If Imogen were going to accompany
the party, that quite altered the
aspect of affairs. He thought she seemed
rather a jolly girl, and certainly not In the
very slightest degree awe-inspiring. He
did not at all object to her outspoken
straightforwardness ; was amused by what
he had seen of her wildness and hoyden-illness
; and had an intuitive conviction
that there would always be some chance
of a bit of fun going on at any place
where she might be present. Since she
had been asked to go to the cottage, it
was evident that those who were going
there as a matter of necessity and business
did not regard the visit as a thing requiring
any special privacy ; therefore, he
might safely venture to propose himself
as an addition to the party without fear
of being considered an Intruder.

May I come with you ? ' said he to

Mr Rhys, who just then joined them.

I was on the point of going for ' a
stroll, and should greatly prefer your
company to my own, if I shan't be in
the way.'

In the way } Oh, not a bit of it —
delighted to have you, my dear fellow,
if you care to come,' returned Mr Rhys.

Shouldn't have thought of suggesting it,
though, if you hadn't proposed it of yourself,
for you won't find it very lively, I'm
afraid. Business is a great bore sometimes,
but of course it has to be done ;
and you see that I, as a magistrate, am
bound to take active steps immediately
in an affair of this kind. People expect
it of people in our position. Ah !
here's Owen. Are you ready to start,
Ethel?'

Yes, quite,' answered Ethel. ' I wonder
if we shall make any very important
discovery at this cottage after all — find
my set of diamonds and sapphires in the

oven, or one of my rings in the teapot,
or something of that kind ? '

Ha ! ha ! ' laughed Mr Owen ; ' what
an exquisitely amusing idea ! But seriously,
you know, though I wouldn't have
you too sanguine, yet it seems quite possible,
from all we have heard, that this
Richard Richards may turn out to be
minus a finger on the right hand as your
robber was. And in that case it'll bea
very fishy circumstance for a man of
notoriously thieving proclivities, unless he
should be able to prove quite satisfactorily
where he was during the whole of last
night'

That's true enough,' interposed Mr
Rhys ; * but remember that it's a great
mistake to go rushing to hasty conclusions
in the way that all you young men
like to do. The mere fact of a man's
having lost a finger from the right hand
is, in itself, not even a ground for suspicion,
unless accompanied by other suspicious

circumstances. Why, I know a
gentleman who was paying me a visit
here not long ago, and is maimed in just
the same way. Yet to charge him, merely
on that account, with having committed
this crime, would be evidently absurd and
preposterous.'

Some one staying here with a finger
off one hand, papa ? ' exclaimed Imogen.
How funny that I never noticed it — who
was he ? '

I'm not sure that you've ever met
the person whom I mean, my dear,' replied
Mr Rhys ; ' no — now I come to
think of it, I'm pretty certain you've not,
for I remember that you were away when
he was here. It's that young Sylvester
who is with the Messrs Glass. But come,
come ; we must be off and not stop talking
here. Excuse my hurrying you all,
but it'll never do for me to allow waste
of time in the prosecution of the inquiries
that have to be made. We magistrates

are in a position of much responsibility,
and must remember that it's to us the
country looks in an emergency of this
kind, and that it behoves us to act
accordingly

VOL. I. N

A COTTAGE VISIT.

HE party did not take very long
in reaching the place whither
they were bound, which was
situated at a short distance outside the
Llwyn-yr-Allt grounds. Neither Mr Rhys
nor any of his family had ever yet set foot
in the cottage ; but for all that he knew
perfectly well where it was, for the same
reason that the more a thorn pains one,
the more certain one is to be able to lay
one's finger precisely on the spot where it
lies. For the proximity of so evil-disposed
and ill-regulated a person as a poacher was

a sore trial to him ; and he was resolved
that if ever that cottage should be in the
market he would purchase it, whatever it
might cost, in order to have the satisfaction
of ridding himself of his objectionable
neighbour.

Though Mr Rhys was naturally a most
amiable and benevolent individual, yet his
prejudice against poachers was inveterate ;
and in spite of the warning he had given
Trevor Owen against coming to hasty conclusions,
he himself had in his secret heart
a strong, and by no means unwelcome, impression
of the great probability there was
that Richard Richards would turn out to
be the burglar.

Ethel was the most at ease of either ot
the five visitors as they entered the cottage.
To go into a place of that kind seemed to
her a perfectly natural and every-day action,
because she had been brought up from her
earliest childhood to visit amongst the
villagers and poor people living near her

as a matter of course. But to Imogen, on
the contrary, it was a strange and novel
sensation, as she had seldom done such a
thing before in her whole life ; and she
looked about with a mixture of curiosity,
shyness, and feeling that they were all
being horribly rude, when they had attained
their destination and walked into the house,
after knocking at the door.

An untidy, uncared-for looking place the
cottage was, with a mud-floored, roughly-furnished
kitchen, wherein Richards' wife,
Ann, was engaged in kneading dough,
whilst children of various ages and stages
of dirt surrounded her, and from time to
time amused themselves by poking little
holes in the dough with their filthy fingers.
She was evidently a thorough slattern —
unwashed, unkempt, and with dishevelled
hair that looked as if it might have been
done about a week ago, and not since
taken down or brushed. The appearance
of the children, furniture, and whole place

corresponded to that of the mistress ; and
Imogen, unfamiliar with cottage interiors,
and rather fastidious about her eating,
wondered with a shudder how near to
starvation she would have to be reduced
before it would be possible to her to touch
food prepared by that woman and in that
house.

The unexpected arrival of the gentlefolks
— of whom only Mr Rhys and
Imogen were known to her by sight — disquieted
poor Ann Richards not a little.
Such people had never visited her before,
and she could not imagine what brought
them now, and was disposed to be distrustful
— as all people are who know they have
something to conceal — of whatever was out
of the regular course of things. She knew
that her man was fond of poaching, and
had been out all the night before, though
she did not know what he had been doing,
nor where he had been. Could it be that
he had got into some fresh trouble with

the keepers ? The fear of that happening
was constantly on her mind, and the sight
of Mr Rhys was particularly calculated to
suggest the idea, because his detestation
for poaching was very well known, and
made him an object of especial suspicion
to all that class of evildoers. She felt a
good deal alarmed, therefore, and being
uncertain what particular point might most
need to be guarded, was prepared to stand
on the defensive all round, and commit
herself as little as might be in any direction.
To be entrusted with the exclusive management
of the cross-questioning which
would have to be done at the cottage was
a thing which Trevor Owen coveted greatly.
On the way there he had given plenty of
hints to that effect — had held forth on the
skill required to ask effective and judicious
questions, and had expatiated on the Impossibility
of any person's possessing that
skill unless they had acquired It by dint of
legal training and practice. But his hints

had produced no effect whatever on Mr
Rhys, who, having been once roused to
act magisterially, did not dislike the feeling
of importance it gave him to take a leading
part in connection with so serious an
affair as this was, and had no idea of allowing
anyone — least of all a strange young man
of no local standing — to take the bread out
of his mouth in the matter. There could
be no doubt that he was in the right about
this, and that in virtue both of his local
position and of his relationship to Miss
Carton, he had the first claim to conduct
the inquiry that was now about to be made
as to the peculiarity of Richard Richards'
hand which had attracted the attention of
Polly Thomas, and also as to what the
man's movements might have been during
the preceding night. But though Trevor
could not deny the truth of this, and had
no option about deferring to the older and
more influential man, none the less did it
cost him a bitter pang to yield the point,

and to have to sit silently listening to

cross-examination for his side performed
by a bungling ignoramus as he inwardly
termed Mr Rhys' questioning of the
woman.

Good morning, Ann,' said Mr Rhys.

Is your husband in just now ?'

Ann was perfectly well aware that he
was not, and had not been since nine
o'clock on the evening before. But she
saw no reason for at once imparting all
this information to people who might,
perhaps, have hostile motives for wishing
to know where he was, and so declined to
gratify their curiosity too promptly by
giving an immediate answer.

My daughter shall see now just, sir,' she
replied, and then continued, turning to the
eldest child, * run you, Sairerrann, and see
if daddy's in the garden.'

The child addressed had been hitherto
standing motionless since the strangers
appeared, staring at them with great, wild,

brown eyes, that looked half-fierce and
half-frightened. When told to go and look
for her father, she did not at first move an
inch, but only turned her eyes wonderingly
towards her mother, and opened her mouth
as if about to make some observation. The
mother, however, guessing that the child
intended to remonstrate against being sent
on an errand that she knew to be a fruitless
one, nipped the impending protest in the
bud, by giving her daughter a slight
shove, and adding peremptorily, ' Quick
now ! ' Whereupon Sarah Ann at once
departed.

A somewhat awkward silence ensued,
which was broken by Ethel's making advances
towards friendship with some of the
children. This seemed suddenly to suggest
to Mrs Richards that the nose of the
second boy was not exactly in a condition
that was suitable for the reception of company,
so she pounced upon him unexpectedly,
and hastily pinched and wiped it with

a corner of her apron. This attention was
hardly received with the gratitude It deserved
by the recipient, who evidently
regarded the proceeding as quite uncalled
for. He acknowledged It by wrinkling
up the offending member Impatiently and
twitching himself out of her grasp as soon
as the operation was concluded, with an
air of only having tolerated It at all because
he knew it to be — though utterly mistaken
kindly meant.

When this was accomplished, Mr Rhys
thought it time to resume the Inquiries that
were the object of his visit.

By-the-bye, how came Richard to hurt
his hand } ' asked he.

This was a question that greatly astonished
Ann.

Hunted his hand, sir, have he ? ' returned
she cautiously, wondering how her
husband might have contrived to damage
himself since last she had seen him, and what
row he could have been getting into during

the night. * Indeed, and 'tis like enough ;
what with drams sipping, and stones falling,
and one thing and another, there be
always something wrong at them colleges.
I don't suppose as It be very bad though,
neither, for he haven't a said nothing of It
to I.'

Oh ! but ]mr Rhys means a long time
ago,' Interrupted Trevor, finding It Impossible
to keep silence any longer. ' He
meant that time when your husband lost
his finder — or — let me see — wasn't It two
fingers that he lost ? '

'Twas only one, whatever,' answered
Ann quickly, astonished at this stranger's
knowledge about her husband, and surprised
Into forgetting her determination
not to oflve an atom more information
about him than could be helped.

The barrister felt that he had scored a
point in thus discovering certainly that
Richards was short of one finger, and continued
at once, with a glance of triumph,

before Mr Rhys had a chance of interfering
again,—

To be sure ! Of course it was only-one.
Stupid of me to have fancied it was
two. And it's off his right hand that it's
gone, isn't it now ? '

But Ann was not to be entrapped into
making any further admissions, and answered
curtly, —

Indeed, and I can't speak as to that. I
didn't never take no notice which handitbe.'

She was becoming more and more
mystified as to the object of this visit.
What possible interest could the gentry
have in Richard's loss of a finger ? for that
had taken place years ago, and could
certainly not be referred to any poaching
or other disturbance that might have taken
place last night. Whatever the drift of
their questions might be, however, she
would at all events keep on the safe side
and let her visitors get as little as possible
out of her.

The return of the child now effected
a diversion ; and Ethel, feeling interested
in the wild-looking little thing, and wishing
to make friends with her, said kindly,
Did you find your father, Sarah ?'

Perhaps the girl did not recognise
herself when addressed only by one
Christian name, or perhaps she did not
understand English readily, when it was
spoken without the familiar Welsh accent.
Be that as it may, at all events she paid
no attention to the question, and stood
silently and stolidly staring as before,
without giving the least sign of knowing
that anyone had addressed her. ]mr
Owen seeing this, thought It incumbent
on him to Interfere on Miss Carton's
behalf, and reprove the child for rudeness.

Where are your manners, you rude
little girl ? ' said he severely ; ' you must
answer the lady directly.'

His severity, however, produced no
more effect than Ethel's gentleness had

done, for the child remained Immovable
till asked by her mother, * Did you find
daddy, Sairerrann ? Tell now.' To which
she responded, ' Noo ! ' and then returned
to her former occupation of staring.

While all this had been going on,
Imogen had watched the proceedings
curiously. She did not feel in any way
specially drawn towards this dirty, slovenly
woman and her equally untidy children ;
but for all that she was aware of some
intuitive feeling of sympathy with them
which enabled her to guess pretty confidently
at the thoughts that were likely
to be passing through their minds. And
she observed, too, with some surprise,
how completely at home Ethel seemed
to be, and how much less awkward she
was in her manner of addressing the
cottage inmates than any of the rest of the
party.

Mr Rhys lost no time In going on with
his interrogations, so that Trevor Owen

might not again have an opportunity of
putting in his oar.

I'm very sorry Richards is out,' said
Mr Rhys, rather stiffly, with a vague sort
of impression that the man's being out of
the way when he was wanted to be interviewed,
was an additional proof of the
iniquity of his disposition. * Do you know
at all where he is likely to be found ? '

Well, no sir, indeed and I can't say as I
does,' returned Ann.

Humph, that's unlucky, as there's
something that I particularly wish to see
him about,' answered the gentleman.
However, perhaps you can tell me part
of what I want to know, and that is,
whether he was here during last night,
or whether he was away at all ? '

At this direct question Mr Owen groaned
internally. ' Oh, what an idiot the man
is ! ' thought he ; ' but its just like an unprofessional
to go blurting out leading
questions like that, and showing the

witness — who is evidently very suspicious
of us — exactly where to be specially on
her guard. Dear, dear ! why couldn't he
have left the examination to me ? If
people did but know what fools they make
of themselves when they will go meddling
with what they don't understand.'

Ann affected not to have heard or comprehended
the question, so as to gain
a moment's time for considering her
answer.

Er ? ' she inquired, with a look of
absolute stupidity.

Was your husband out anywhere last
night, I want to know 1 ' repeated Mr
Rhys, in a rather louder tone.

Out of here, sir, is it as you do mean ? '
returned Ann, innocently.

Yes, of course ; where else should I
mean ? ' returned Mr Rhys impatiently.

She had by this time reflected upon
the situation sufficiently to perceive the
futility of denying what would be easily

discoverable from other sources, and
replied, —

Why, no sir ; you see as this be his
night-week. The colliers always do take
it turn about, working one week by day
and the next by night, as you do know,
in course ; and so this being his night-week,
he has to be away to work every night

Oh, then he was not here last night,'
answered Mr Rhys. * Thank you ; I wanted
to know about that ; well, we must be going
now, and won't disturb you any longer.
Good day.'

With that he left the cottage, followed
by the rest of the party. Ethel, Imogen,
and Sir Charles Dover all took leave
with more or less courtesy of the mistress
of the house as they departed ; but Mr
Owen stalked out without taking any
notice at all of her.

He didn't even hitch his head at her,'
remarked Imogen afterwards, when giving
Ralph an account of the visit. ' He might

VOL. I. o

have done that much, I think. It ain't
my notion to go into any one's house,
whether it's a rich person's or a poor one's,
and behave as if the owner were a bit of
stick that hadn't the right the turn one
out if he or she chose. One's only on
sufferance, as it were, in other people's
diggings, whoever they may be.'

As soon as Mr Rhys had reached the
road, he said, with considerable complacency,
—

Well, we didn't go there for nothing,
and have found out something of what
we wanted to know at all events. So far,
I shouldn't say it seems at all impossible
for Richard Richards to be the man we
want. Eh, Owen ?'

It's hard to say anything positive about
the matter yet one way or other, as far
as I can see,' answered Trevor, who spied
an opportunity of triumph and of showing
Miss Carton that her uncle had blundered
in managing her affairs. ' Shall we go

straight on now to the colliery the man
works at, or will it be too far for the ladies,
do you think ? '

The colliery he works at ! ' echoed
Mr Rhys, in surprise ; * what should we do
that for ? and besides, how am I to know
which it is ? '

Oh, I beg your pardon for speaking
then, sir,' returned Trevor, with the faintest
possible accent of sarcasm to be detected
in his tone ; ' I took it for granted you
must know that, as you didn't ask the
wife about it. I should have thought
there could have been no doubt of the
importance of going to the colliery at once
in order to verify her statement that he
was working there last night ; but of
course you know best what to do, and
have probably some better scheme.'

To be able to administer this rebuke to
the man who had been trampling for the
last some time upon his professional feelings
was a comfort to the barrister, and

afforded him some slight compensation
for what he had undergone.

Mr Rhys was discomposed to perceive
the omission of which he had been guilty.

Bless my soul ! ' he exclaimed ; * yes — of
course — I believe I did think of It once,
only then It slipped my memory again.
Just go on without me, and I'll step back
and find that out, and overtake you in
two minutes.' And with these words he
hurried back to the cottage, leaving the
rest of the party to saunter slowly along
till he rejoined them.

Poor Ann ! that means more pumping
for her,' observed Imogen. *I don't expect
she will be particularly pleased at his return,
for she's had more than she wants of us
already, unless I'm very much mistaken.'

She wasn't pumped to much purpose
though,' said Mr Owen with a sigh

I do wish Mr Rhys had allowed me
to conduct the examination. It stands
to reason that no amateur can ever

understand that sort of thing as well as a
lawyer does, and I feel little doubt of
having extracted a good deal more information
out of her if the case had been left
in my hands

I'm very glad It wasn't then said
Imogen bluntly. ' Poor people are one's
fellow-creatures after all, and it seems
rather a shame to go and bully them in
their own homes like that, when they can't
get away from one.'

You're right there. Miss Rhys,' said
Sir Charles, who was amused at the way
she had snubbed the barrister ; * but then
can you fancy living in such a pig-sty as
that cottage, and dignifying it by the name
of home ? And don't you think, too, that
it's a grave question whether pockethand-
kerchlefless children with colds ought to be
allowed to exist ? I'm Inclined to think
that it's a proper subject for legislation,
and that they ought either to be cured or
else done away by Act of Parliament.'

At this stage Ethel joined in the conversation.
As she had all her life been
familiar with the cottagers residing near
Carton House, and been on the best of
terms with them, it seemed to her that it
was the right and natural thing for the inhabitants
of all country houses always to
exercise a gentle, kindly, and beneficent
influence over their poorer neighbours, and
took it for granted that Imogen would
think the same, and act accordingly. Considering,
therefore, how near the abode
they had just left was to Llwyn-yr-Allt,
Ethel had been quite astonished at the
dirty, squalid condition of the Richards'
dwelling, and its inmates ; and was disposed
to take her cousin mildly to task for
tolerating such untidiness.

I don't wonder at Sir Charles' criticism,
Im,' she said, turning to Imogen
with a laugh. * Certainly the Richards'
manage isn't very creditable to have in
one's immediate neighbourhood, and I

know I should be dreadfully ashamed if
I had one even a quarter as bad at Carton.
Are those Richards' only just come here ?
or are they very unusually unmanageable ?
or how is it that you haven't managed to
reform them ? '

Imogen opened her eyes wide in surprise
at an idea which had certainly never
before entered her head. She regarded
poor people as belonging to a weaker class
than her own, and was on that account
chivalrously disposed to sympathise with
and stand up for them. But it was quite
another thing to think of going about
amongst them in their own homes, and
trying to convert them to the same ideas
of comfort, cleanliness, and morality as
were entertained by herself and her equals.
She had not been brought up, as Ethel
had been, to do this. Therefore, whereas
Ethel regarded it as simply a matter of
every-day duty, Imogen, on the contrary,
esteemed it to be a sort of irksome, out-of-the-way,

eccentric proceeding which was
only fitting for clergymen, and such individuals
as were extra good and anxious to
be saints.

Reform them ! * she echoed ; * why, I
never tried to — they're no earthly business
of mine

It was now Ethel's turn to be somewhat
surprised.

Aren't they? Well, I should have
thought they were, living so close to you,'
she answered. * However, of course you
know your own business best. But don't
you think it would be an advantage to get
them to be a bit cleaner, and civilise them
a little ? Surely you might do something
towards it if you were to try.'

Oh no ! it's quite out of my line,' replied
Imogen, who did not at all take to
the notion. * I've no turn for that kind of
thing, and never have an idea what to say
when I'm in a cottage. Besides, I don't
see what right I should have to go interfering

with a poor woman, and telling her
she isn't clean enough. I should feel all
the time that she must be wondering internally
why I didn't mind my own business,
even if— not being as rude as me—
she didn't say so right out. I'm sure I
wouldn't stand her coming to tell me that I
ouo-ht to wash — and so why should I expect
her to put up with my doing it to her ?

That's not badly put, by Jove ! ' remarked
Sir Charles, ' and I don't know that I
ever looked at it in that light before. My
mother and sisters at home are perpetually
pottering after the cottagers, and I always
took it for granted that it was the kind and
proper thing to do, and that the people
liked it. But I wonder if they really do,
after all ? '

Of course they do,' said Trevor Owen ;
or if they don't they're ungrateful brutes !
It's absurd, begging Miss Imogen's pardon,
to reason about poor people just like ourselves
; they're altogether different from us,

and can't be treated in the same way.
Don't you agree with me, Miss Carton ?'

Indeed, I don't,' answered Ethel ; ' I
don't altogether agree with Imogen's point
of view either ; but it's true enough what
she says about their being our fellow-creatures,
and having just the same
human nature as we have; and I can't
bear for people to ignore that.'

Trevor entertained the utmost contempt
for the lower classes, and regarded anyone
in whom poverty and ignorance were combined
as belonging to a very inferior order
of being from himself. But at the present
moment it was of much more consequence
in his eyes to get into Miss Carton's good
graces, than to air any private opinions of his
own. Finding, therefore, that the sentiment
he had just expressed was objectionable to
her, he immediately applied himself to
modify and explain it away, and was thus engaged
until Mr Rhys rejoined them, and the
conversation turned into another channel.

A FRITILLARY.

f^MOGEN's mind was beginning
by this time to revert to her
favourite pursuit of entomology,
and she paused, looking attentively at a
hedge they were passing which was thickly
overgrown with brambles, ivy, and an
abundance of hazel bushes. Sir Charles
Dover, who regarded her as the most
lively and interesting member of the party,
stopped because she did, and the others
went on without them — Mr Owen still
zealously devoting himself to the heiress,
and endeavouring to do the agreeable to
her.

Anything particular in that hedge, Miss
Rhys?' inquired Sir Charles.

Yes, very likely,' she answered. * I
was just thinking what a capital place for
moths to be lying in it looked.'

You don't say so, now ? ' he returned,
not quite knowing what other remark to
offer, and inwardly wondering what possible
attraction she could find in this * bug-hunting,'
as he disrespectfully termed nothing.
He was sure he could see nothing to
be so fond of in it ; only, it need scarcely
be said, that that was an opinion which he
did not judge suitable to be imparted to
his companion.

Yes I do, though,' she replied, without
any suspicion of the irreverent thoughts
passing through his mind. ' I shouldn't
wonder if it was full of 'em.'

Well then, why don't you catch 'em .-* '
asked he ; ' and why don't they fly about
if they're there ? '

Why they're mostly asleep, of course,

at this time of day returned she ; ' and
they'd have to be beaten out before one
could catch 'em. I expect 'twould take
no end of a good beater, too, to get out
all there are in such a thick place as
that.'

The day was very hot, and Sir Charles
did not feel particularly inclined for thumping
his stick upon bushes. Still there was
nothing much else for him to do, and he
thought he would be good-natured to this
queer girl. So he said condescendingly, —

Look here ! I don't mind doing beater
for you a bit.'

Having made certain that she would
jump eagerly at so magnificent an offer,
he was rather staggered at the cool
manner in which she received it, as if
the favour would be rather more on her
side in allowing him to help her, than
on his in exerting himself for her services.

You ! ' said she, with an emphasis on
the pronoun that was anything but flattering.

* Do you know how to ? — did you
ever do it before ? '

He was amused at this unexpectedly
scornful reception of his well-meant proposal,
but just the least bit ruffled by it
also.

Well, no,' he answered ; ' I can't say
that I ever did. But I don't see how that
can matter. I don't imagine there's any
very great art required.'

Ah, that just shows how little you
know about It,' she replied, ' for the fact
is there's a deal of skill in beating. First,
the bushes ought to be touched quite
gently to knock out any moths that are
awake or sleeping lightly ; then you get
harder by degrees, till you come to routing
about amongst the roots with all your
might to wake up the heavy sleepers.
And nothing but a deal of practice '11 ever
make you know exactly the best places to
poke a stick In at. Of course I don't
mind your trying if you like — but you

won't find it as easy as you think, /
know.'

The young man felt nettled at this low
opinion of his capabilities, and resolved to
show her she was mistaken. It was
absurd to suppose he couldn't wake up a
stupid moth and make it fly out of a
hedge ; why, any fool could do that much !
However, he kept this sentiment to himself,
and set to work at his task.

She was not in the best of tempers,
having still not altogether got over the
annoyance of losing the day's outing she
had meant to have with Ralph, and at
first she criticised Sir Charles' performance
so unsparingly that he began to come to
the conclusion that it was impossible to
please her. If he beat hard, that was
wrong, and when he struck softly, that
was no better ; if he hit at the leaves he
was told he should rout in the roots, and
when he routed in the roots he was asked
why he had left the top branches untouched

? But by-and-by the moths took
to emerging from their hiding-places insufficient
numbers to keep her fully
employed in running after them, and
amongst those she captured were several
that she wanted. This caused her first
severity to relax considerably, and she
even went so far as to tell him patronisingly
that he was not doing so badly fora
beginner.

This was all very well no doubt, and
ought to have stimulated him to redoubled
efforts ; but he was getting tired of the
hard, hot, dusty work of beating, and
besides that, had taken It into his head
that he should like to try his own hand
at wielding the net.

I should think you must be getting
tired with so much running about,' he said
cunningly ; ' let me have the net and do
some of it for you.'

Oh, dear no ! thanks all the same,'
was the answer ; * I don't find catching

is any harder work than beating, and it's
much better fun ! Go on ; you haven't
half worked through that hollow yet.'

But Sir Charles did not obey. He
thought he had sacrificed himself honor
enough in her service, and that it was high
time for him to have a share in the more
amusing part of the performance.

M Ve a great fancy to try how I should
get on with a net,' he remarked insinuatingly


This was a tolerably broad hint, but
Imogen failed to see it.

Well, if Ralph doesn't want his net this
afternoon,' said she, ' I daresay he'll lend it
you, and then you can try. Now then !
I'm all ready for you to go on.'

Oh ! but I should like to try now,'
urged Sir Charles. ' Couldn't you lend me
your net for a minute, and let me do the
catching, whilst you beat instead of me ?
It isntfair for me to work so hard and
not have any of the fun at all ; is it now .> '

VOL. I.

There was a justice in this claim which
she could not deny, however loath she
might be to surrender the net.

Well — no — I suppose not,' she replied,
reluctantly. * But then you see you've had
no practice at it. Only fancy if you were
to miss catching some first-rate rare moth
that we want awfully ; perhaps it might be
one that we should never have the chance
of again, you know.'

The loss of a rare moth would evidently
be a serious calamity in her eyes,
and the perfect gravity and businesslike
earnestness with which she threw
herself Into her hobby diverted him
considerably.

True — very true,' he answered maliciously.
' I hadn't thought of anything so
dreadful as that. Perhaps, after all, it maybe
wiser not to risk such a misfortune ;
and, of course, there can't be the least
chance of it's happening as long as the net
is held by a practised hand like you, who

never by any accident miss the moth you're
after.'

This was an unkind speech on his part,
for it referred to what had happened a few
minutes before, when a moth which she
had been especially anxious to secure had
suddenly emerged from the hedge. The
insect had several times been within her
reach, and she had struck at it more than
once without success, but it had at last
defeated her ignominiously, to her no small
disgust. She had rather hoped that her
companion had perhaps not noticed the
failure, and was now, therefore, considerably
irritated to find that such was not the
case. What business had a person who
was such a slight acquaintance as he was
to twit her with her mischance ? Decidedly
he must be a very rude young man ! For
it never occurred to her that the lack of
ceremony with which she had treated him,
took from her the right of complaining when
he retaliated upon her In the same way.

Colouring angrily, she held the net out
towards him.

Oh, well, you can try if you like,' she
said, ungraciously ; ' but I daresay you
won't catch a thing. You must give me
your stick instead, for I've nothing else to
beat with. Now then ! look out ! I'm going
to beat that lump of ivy at the top.'

Her efforts speedily drove out a moth
of some kind or other, and Sir Charles
struck wildly at it as it whizzed past him ;
but he failed to get it in the net. He
ran a few steps after it without getting
another chance to strike, and then it disappeared
from sight, and he returned,
rather annoyed, to his post, quite aware of
the scornful looks that Imogen was casting
upon him, though she did not say anything.

With the second moth that appeared
he was more successful, but was disappointed
to find that the captured insect
was only a common thing, which was
turned out of the net to fey away again

as soon as Imoo^en saw what It was. He
was standing at some little distance away
from her, watching for another to emerge
from the ivy, when suddenly he heard
her shriek out to him, —

Hi ! — look there ! That big butterfly !
Catch him — don't lose him on any account
! Keep him in sight ! Run — do
run ! Mark him down ! Now — now !
Ah ! you've muffed him ! Give me the
net ; yozcre no good with it ! '

This excitement was caused by a splendid
reddish - brown fritillary that came
sailing along in the brilliant sunshine. Sir
Charles ran after it, got near enough to
strike at it, but unfortunately missed it.

Imogen, indignant, contemptuous, and
reproachful, was dashing up to recover
the net which he was wielding so unskilfully
; but before she could get within
reach of him and snatch it out of his
hands, he had set off in full pursuit after
the insect. It seemed as if her enthusiasm

had at last infected him, for at that moment
he certainly felt as if there were no possible
alternative between securing the
creature he was in chase of, or else running
after it for ever.

Away it went like a flash of lightning ;
then, circling round, again came pretty near.
He swooped at it with the net, furiously
but ineffectually. Once more it darted
away, with him after it, and Imogen following
a little way behind. As she ran
she kept shouting out instructions, more
or less coherent, adjuring him to keep It
in sight whatever he did, and ordering
him to give up the net to her directly she
got within reach of him. This, however,
he was privately resolved that nothing
on earth would Induce him to do till the
chase should be over. His whole soul
was in it by this time, and he was burning
to retrieve the disgrace of his two unsuccessful
strokes, and to cover himself with
glory by bringing the butterfly in triumph

to Imogen. Without that fritillary he
felt that life would be not worth the
having, and his future existence hopelessly
blighted.

Bother the brute, what had become of
it ? He could swear he had never taken
his eyes off it for an instant, yet now it
had vanished! He stood still, perforce,
and stared around, stamping with vexation,
and in an agony lest the check should
give Imogen time to overtake him, and
insist on the restoration of her property.
She had almost got up to him when his
eye caught a twinkle of something red,
a little way off, on the ground ; and there,
sure enough, was the fritillary sitting
calmly on a white stone, with its great
wings stretched out broadly in the sun
and motionless, save when now and then a
sort of rapid flap quivered through them.

Calling to Imogen to keep back and
not frighten the quarry, he advances
cautiously ; still it remains quiet. A step

nearer and he will have a chance ; he
prepares to strike ; Imogen stands watching
with breathless interest. No use !
away glances the insect like a flash of
light, and the chase begins all over
again.

What a splendid beauty a fritillary is ;
but oh, gracious ! what a tiresome thing to
have to keep one's eyes on. Its manner
of going on is too erratic for its course to
be reckoned on with any certainty for two
moments together ; now it shoots along as
straight as an arrow, and now zigzags
about from side to side, gleaming and
glancing hither and thither with a swiftness
that makes it hardly possible for
mortal eyes to follow the flight.

Keeping the insect in view as best he
could, Sir Charles went on in frantic
pursuit till he came to a low bank dividing
two fields from one another. He heard
Imogen shouting something to him but
paid no heed to what she said. Of course



she was only going on ordering him to
give her back the net— give back the net,
at such a moment, indeed ! As if that was
likely !

Turning a deaf ear to her words, therefore,
and never taking his eyes off the
butterfly, he sprang to the top of the bank
and down on the other side. Just as his
foot quitted the earth on the top he
became aware of the glint of water beneath,
and on looking down saw a pond
underneath him. It was too late to drawback,
for he had already taken his spring,
and next moment he was sprawling on
his face in a stagnant duck-pond, half full
of filthy green mud and water ! Dripping,
unsavoury, disgusted, but yet undaunted,
he rose immediately to his feet, vigorously
spluttering out the foul stuff that filled his
mouth, and looking eagerly around for
the butterfly, in hopes that he might still
perhaps be able to retrieve his credit.
Alas for his hopes ! He had fallen with

the net underneath him and completely
smashed it; consequently all chance of
capturing anything more till a fresh
net could be procured was now at an
end.

In Imogen's mind there were two contrary
inclinations struggling together. On
the one hand she felt disposed to laugh
at his ridiculous and dismal appearance ;
and on the other, to lament the loss of
the fritillary which she took quite seriously
to heart. On the whole her disappointment
predominated, and made her
too serious to indulge in much merriment
just then ; she only said mournfully, —
I wonder if it was Argynnis Latona
or Argynnis Euphrosyne ! It must have
been one or the other of them, because
they're the only two fritillaries that are
out in September. I wanted it either
way ; but, oh dear ! how awfully provoking
if it should have been Lathonia^
which is so rare ! '

The poor young man had never before
heard these formidable names, and had
not the remotest notion of what either
Latona or Eziphrosyjie were ; but, anyhow,
he perceived that something very disastrous
had taken place, and as it had
evidently been caused by his over-great
ambition in aspiring to the management
of the net, he felt very small indeed ashe
sneaked home by her side in a crestfallen
and uncomfortable condition of both
body and mind.

Such was the enthusiasm for entomology
with which his short experience of it had
inspired him, that the loss of the fritillary
seemed to him even more to be deplored
than his own ducking ; and it was an
additionally bitter drop in his cup to
reflect that that loss was his own fault,
and would very probably have been
avoided if the net had been in the hands
of its rightful owner.

Ah ! if only he had let the net alone !

Then, perhaps, a Latona (whatever that
might be) would on this day have been
added triumphantly to the entomological
cabinet at Llwyn-yr-Allt, and he might
himself have had the distinguished felicity
of beholding its capture !

END Op VOL. I.

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

3 0112 042259298

ig^gH^^

<'>&Mi:f^^>.^^z/Mm^.,

W/yyZ2^.'iZ/^^Z^W^/^yM-Z%i<^J^^^^^

^^^W^^^-

wmmmmm

OF THE

U N Diversity

or ILLINOIS

82,3
D588b

V.2.

OR,

UNCONSCIOUS INFLUENCE.

BY

E. A. D I LLWYN,

AUTHOR OF 'THE REBECCA RIOTER ' AND ' CHLOE Ruelle.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

T I N S L E \^ BROTHERS,

CATHERINE STREET, STRAND,

LONDON.

[.7/i ri gilts reserved.]

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

IS THIS THE MAN ? .

THE TRIAL,

A FIRST BALL, .

CHAPTER 11.

CHAPTER III.

CHAPTER IV.

A GENTLEMAN BURGLAR,

CHAPTER V.

A SUNDAY CALL,

CHAPTER VI.

Ethel's UNCONSCIOUS INFLUENCE, .

PAGE

I









Contents.

CHAPTER VII.

A SICK MAN, .

CHAPTER VIII.

POOR CRAMBO,

CHAPTER IX.

AN UNEXPECTED PROPOSAL, .

CHAPTER X.

Vexations,

CHAPTER XI.

LADY ELISE'S FAILURE,

CHAPTER XII.

THYATIRA Basis,

CHAPTER XIII,

PAGE
I 20

yi







DOES SHE LIKE HIM i

OR,

UNCONSCIOUS INFLUENCE.

CHAPTER I.

IS THIS THE Man

HE Llwyn-yr-Allt party had not
been long gone from Richard
Richards' cottage before he
arrived there himself, announcing that he
should want his ' grub ' before long, as he
had not had much of a breakfast, and
was * uncommon peckish.' Of course
Ann lost no time in telling him of the
visitors she had had, the interest they had

VOL. II. A

manifested as to where he had been during
the preceding night, and the unlooked-for
knowledge possessed by one of the
strangers as to the maimed condition of
his hand. On hearing all this, Richard
became much discomposed. He put down
the pipe which he had just lighted, and
stood in a state of evident uneasiness,
scratching his head and swearing as he
meditated, without vouchsafing any response
to his wife's questions. As she
required a couple of onions and cabbages
to stew with the bit of meat she was
going to prepare for his dinner, she went
into the garden to fetch these vegetables,
expecting to find him more communicative
by the time she returned. She was delayed,
however, longer than she anticipated
by the reprehensible greediness of
a stray cow that had got in amongst the
cabbages, and deemed their flavour vastly
superior to that of the dusty grass on the
hedges which constituted the bulk of her

every-day diet, — she being the property
of a poor man who did not consider that
the not ownlno^ a rood of land of his own
was any drawback to keeping one or two
animals to subsist, as they could, upon
road-side pickings and incursions into the
domains of richer neighbours. The cow
in question highly approved of her newly-found
quarters in the cabbage bed, and
had a decided objection to quitting them.
Consequently it was a matter of extreme
difficulty to induce her to perceive the
situation of the garden gate ; and when,
at last, Ann had conquered this pertinacious
obtuseness, procured the things she
wanted, and got back to the house, she
found that her husband was no longer
there. Supposing that he would soon be
back, she went on with her cooking for
him ; and as he had not yet made his
appearance when dinner-time came, the
meat and vegetables were put in the
oven to keep hot, and she and the children

dined contentedly upon what was their
customary midday fare when he was not
with them, i.e., tea without milk, and
blackstone bread and butter. In vain,
however, did she expect his return ; for
the afternoon and evening wore on, and
still he did not appear.

Meanwhile Inquiries that were made at
the colliery where he worked, had revealed
the damaging fact that he had not
been there at all for the last day and a
half. Where, then, was he whilst the burglary
was taking place, since he had not
been either at his own home nor yet at
his work at that time ? Again was he
sought for at his cottage ; but neither
there nor elsewhere was he to be found,
and public opinion felt Itself greatly confirmed
In the suspicions which It had
already begun to entertain concerning him.
Why should he keep out of the way so
carefully, If he was not troubled by a
guilty conscience ? Everyone agreed that

he ought to be brought to trial ; so a
warrant was issued for his arrest, and he
was hunted for far and near, whilst all
other investigations relating to the robbery-grew
slack in consequence of the strong
feeling that prevailed that he, and none
other, must undoubtedly be the criminal.

For nearly a fortnight he remained undiscovered
; and then he was at length
found, solacing his retirement in orgies
with low and disreputable companions in
some of the worst slums of Cwm-Eithin.
His capture created the greatest possible
excitement ; and when he was brought
before the magistrates for examination, he
was so much the hero of the hour, that the
local newspapers thought it worth while
carefully to chronicle even the smallest
details about his personal appearance
for the benefit of their readers, who found
themselves accurately informed about such
things as the colour of his hair, the number
of pimples on his face, the droop of

his eyelids, the twitching of his mouth,
the muddlness of his complexion, the state
of his clothes, etc., etc.

On being interrogated as to his proceedings
during the night when the jewels had
been stolen, he was unable to give a satisfactory
account of himself, and had shown
signs of confusion, which were fully reported
and expatiated on by the Cwm-
Eithln press, in big type, and went far to
increase the prejudice against him that
already existed.

When told what the crime was with
which he was charged, he asserted his
innocence of it vehemently and unhesitatingly
; but the prejudice against him was
none the less strong for that. For people
were of opinion that no weight should be
attached to the protestations of a manlike
Richards, who would, they said, be
of course as little likely to stick at a
lie as at stealing a rabbit, a hare, a
pheasant, or a set of jewellery, breaking

into a house, or committing any other
misdeed.

Ethel having by this time gone back to
her own home was sent for post haste to
see if she could identify him. This, however,
she was unable to do. After being
in the same room with him, looking at him
carefully, and hearing him speak, she declared
that it was impossible for her to
give any opinion at all as to whether he
was the person who had robbed her or not.
He was not altogether unlike ; yet he certainly
did not correspond to her recollection
of the burglar with sufficient exactitude
for her to say positively that he was the
same man. The great point of similarity lay
in the loss of a finger from the right hand,
in which respect Richards undoubtedly
resembled the thief. As regarded height
she was inclined to think that that of
Richards was pretty nearly that of her
assailant ; but was by no means sure about
it. As regarded speaking, on the contrary,

she pronounced her opinion confidently
that Richards' voice was quite different
from the robber's. The value of this
declaration in Richards' favour was, however,
considerably lessened by the impression
which she had always had, and which
was well known to everyone, as to the
burglar's having disguised his voice and
not spoken naturally. Richards himself
appealed to the fact of none of her property
being found in his possession as a
proof of his innocence ; but then there
was but little weight to be attached to
that, when it was remembered that ample
time for concealing the things had elapsed
since the robbery. The upshot of the examination
before the magistrate, therefore,
was that Richard Richards was committed
for trial at the next criminal assizes on a
charge of theft and burglary at Llwyn-yr-
Alltt ; and that his guilt was generally considered
throughout the neighbourhood to
be almost an established fact.

^'S's.

CHAPTER II.

THE TRIAL.

N situation Trevor Owen at
Llwyn - yr - Alltt at the time
when the burglary occurred,
and giving him a share in the very earliest
investigations that took place relating
to it, fortune had afforded him an opening
of which he was not slow to avail himself.
The robbery served as a peg whereon to
hang many more communications with
Miss Carton than would have been otherwise
possible ; and the activity, zeal, and
interest which he displayed in the affair
were no bad methods of ingratiating himself

with the person most nearly concerned
in it.

Of course it is not to be supposed that
he was so injudicious as ever to vaunt his
legal skill openly to her, or to say anything
to make apparent the anxiety to
secure a heavy brief by which he was
actuated. Oh dear no ! there was nothing
of that kind to be seen ; only he couldn't
help taking an uncommon interest in the
case, both in his professional capacity, and
also as having happened to be on the spot
just when the robbery took place. Then,
too, as a friend of the sufferer, he was still
further interested in it, and was only too
happy to give Miss Carton any assistance
and advice in his power.

Thus he had a very plausible excuse to
account for the way in which he busied
himself in the matter. But though he
never told her plainly that she could not
possibly do better than allow herself to be
represented at the assizes by so clever a

barrister as himself, none the less did he
contrive imperceptibly to instil the idea
into her mind, and to imbue her with a
considerable amount of belief in his legal
talents and acumen.

I rather think I should like to have
Mr Owen employed for us in this business,'
said she, in talking the matter over
with Lady Elise. ' It seems as if it must
be an advantage to me to have a lawyer
who was there from the very beginning —
knows exactly what the house is like, and
where the rooms are, and when we got
home from the ball, and what o'clock the
robbery first became known, and what immediate
steps were taken, and generally
all about everything. You see, when a
barrister knows, to start with, what details
are trivial, there's no danger of his wasting
misdirected energies upon them (as is constantly
being done in trials), under the
impression that perhaps they're going to
turn out of great importance. And I

should think that whatever a man knows
by his own eyes and ears, he must take
in and understand better than if it had
been got at through the eyes and ears of,
perhaps, stupid and reluctant witnesses.
Mr Owen seems to have plenty of wits,
too ; and altogether I don't think we could
do better than have him — do you ? '

Lady Elise had quickly detected that
Trevor was concerning himself in the
burglary from interested motives, and had
been watching his progress anxiously, that
she might know how to shape her own
course regarding him. She had fully
made up her mind that marriage was the
object he had in view, and was prepared
to favour or oppose that object according
as he seemed likely or not to be ultimately
successful. If possible, she would have
liked for Ethel neither to marry nor yet
to have any intimate friend except herself,
so that there might be no one to share
with her the benefits that would accrue

naturally to whoever should be the constant
companion of so much wealth. But
she knew well enough the absurdity of
hoping for such an exclusive possession
as that of the gold mine which she desired
to profit by, and so was ready to pay early
court to anyone who appeared likely to
become eventually its proprietor.

If, then, Ethel regarded Mr Owen with
total indifference, it might be advisable
to take every opportunity of speaking ill-naturedly
of him, and endeavouring to
break off all further connection between
them. Supposing, on the other hand,
that her affections were beginning to be
seriously engaged, then it would be very
impolitic to say a word against him. For,
even If Ethel did not resent it herself, yet
she would probably repeat it to him sooner
or later, and then he would be offended ;
and so it might lead to Lady Ellse's being
looked upon with disfavour by one in
whose good graces she might desire to

stand. Or, as she put It to herself, * not
for anything in the world would she wish
to be on bad terms with the husband of
her dearest Ethel.'

At the present moment Lady Elise was
completely in the dark as to how much of
an impression Trevor's attentions had succeeded
in producing upon the heiress, and
inwardly sighed over the impossibility of
ever discovering whether ' her dearest
Ethel ' really cared for anyone or not.
Under the circumstances, therefore, she
thought It safest to give a diplomatic
reply, which would not commit her either
for or against him.

My dearest Ethel, what's the use of
asking poor me about a legal matter like
that ? ' she exclaimed. * I should be afraid
to give an opinion that would necessarily
be as worthless as mine is. Of course,
I'm like all women, who always think
that a man who's a good dancer, and a
personal friend, must inevitably be preferable

to anyone else for any employment.
But what does Mr Carton say to it ? I
suppose it's he that'll have to settle it,
won't he ? — as he's your guardian, and
all that

Yes ; but I've not mentioned it to him
as yet,' answered Ethel. * I think I'll go
and see if he's in now, and if so, make the
suggestion to him at once. The worst of
it is, that he's so wrapped up just at present
in that wonderful electrical copying
machine he's concocting, that he can hardly
give his mind to anything else ; and it's
quite as likely as not that I shan't get an
opinion at all out of him, one way or other.
However, I can but try.'

And, so saying, she took herself off to
her uncle's room to see if he was there,
which astonishing promptitude of action
on the part of the habitually indolent
heiress, made Lady Elise open her eyes
wide, and think that Mr Owen must
really have succeeded in producing an

impression on Ethel's hitherto obdurate
heart.

Ethel's uncle, Percival Carton, was a
person whose natural tastes had adapted
him far more to be a college professor
than the owner of a large property.
Science of all kinds was his hobby. He
took the keenest interest in everything
connected with it ; had more than once
composed and read at the meetings of
learned societies papers which had attracted
a good deal of attention ; and
spent almost all his leisure in trying to
find new methods of utilising recent
scientific discoveries, by applying them
to the ordinary wants of domestic life.
Nothing gave him greater pleasure than
to succeed in an attempt of this kind ; and
the sort of life he would have preferred to
lead, would have been one passed entirely
amongst the studies and experiments in
which he delighted. But he fully recognised
the fact that Percival Carton of

Carton had an active part to play In the
world-^a place which he was bound to
fill, estates and affairs for which he was
responsible, and whose management he
ought not to delegate to other people ;
and that, therefore, he was not at liberty
to seclude himself In his study and devote
himself solely to whatever happened to
amuse him most. He was too conscientious
to wish to shirk the duties of his
position, and strove faithfully to discharge
them, however uncongenial they might be.
But, notwithstanding his virtue and high
sense of duty, It cannot be denied that
business ' was to his mind the most
odious word, and the one he most dreaded
hearing, out of all that the English language
contains. Now and then his
patience would give way, and he would
Indulge In a whimsical grumble to Ethel
after this fashion : — * It's really too bad !
Whenever I'm particularly happily engaged,
some one or other Is sure to come

VOL. II. B

bothering to see me '' on business." And
then when I've disturbed myself to see
what the business may be, it invariably
resolves itself into the same old story —
money — some one wants money, takes It
for granted that I shall give it, and is
quite aggrieved If I don't. Upon my
word I sometimes think people must believe
I was put into the world for the
sole purpose of signing cheques ! Just
to write my name below cheques, and
nothing else ! What a magnificently
elevated idea of a person's destiny, isn't
it ? ' But when he had worked himself
up as far as this he would suddenly bethink
him of the similarity of his niece's
position to his own, and the importance
of encouraging business - like ways of
thinking in her young mind, and would
therefore wind up with a homily upon
the duty of finding out, before signing
any cheque, that the purpose to which
it was to be applied, whether to pay a

bill or be given in charity, was a legitimate
and proper one ; from whence was
readily to be deduced the wholesome
moral, that even the apparently mechanical
and unreasoning action of cheque-signing
was not so easy to do as it
seemed, since it evidently could not be
performed aright unless both brain and
understanding had first been brought to
bear upon it, in order to acquire that
knowledge which ought to be regarded
as an indispensable preliminary.

He had for the last several weeks been
busily engaged in endeavouring to carry
out an idea that had occurred to him as to
the construction of a new copying machine.
Its motive power was to be electricity, by
means of which a person writing with one
particular pen, should be able simultaneously
to set going a number of other
pens which would exactly follow the motions
of the one held by the writer, so
that innumerable facsimiles might thus

be produced of any letter, piece of music,
or other writing, with no more labour
than was required to make a single original.
But he found considerable difficulty
in executing his idea in a practical,
working form, and was in all the agonies
of invention when Ethel came to consult
him as to the expediency of employing
Mr Owen as her counsel.

Mr Carton had spoilt his niece all his
life, and never thought of complaining of
her for disturbing him, whatever he might
be about. But when he heard what had
brought her to see him on the present
occasion, he could not refrain from a gentle
sigh at having been interrupted in a crisis
of his calculations for such an inadequate
cause as to settle what barrister should be
engaged about the burglary case. What
did he know about one barrister more
than another ? And besides, was not the
matter one for his solicitors to settle ?

Owen ! Owen ! ' he repeated absently.

Who's he ? What ! that young fellow
who lunched here yesterday, is it ? Oh
yes ! I know who you mean now ; he's
been here several times lately, hasn't he ?
His father, Lord Llyn, was at Eton with
me. What a muff he was, to be sure. He
and I did some chemistry together once,
and you wouldn't believe what a bother it
was to make him recollect that a chlor*^/^
and a chloride weren't the same thing.
However, of course, it doesn't follow that
this young man must be a muff because
his father was. He looks sharp enough,
at any rate. But we've nothing to do with
appointing our own counsel, you know ;
the solicitors settle all that, and choose
whom they like. They know much more
about it than you and I do, of course. Perhaps,
if we were to interfere, they might
set their backs up, and say they wouldn't
be dictated to by their clients. Much
better leave it all to them.'

Ethel was perfectly aware that when

her uncle spoke like this, she had only to
affect to give way to him at once, In order
to ensure his prompt consent to whatever
she desired. Therefore she answered, as
though agreeing with him entirely, —

Oh yes then, certainly, Uncle Percival.
I wouldn't be guilty of a breach of
etiquette in the matter on any account.
I'd only fancied that perhaps we might
have dropped a hint as to liking Mr Owen
to be retained on our side without giving
any offence to the solicitors ; but I quite
see now that it'll be better not to say a
word about it, as you say.'

Mr Carton was completely mollified by
this ready deference to his judgment, and
his thoughts had already begun to revert to
the beloved copying machine, from which
they only had been diverted by this trivial
matter of detail.

Oh ! well, I didn't quite mean to speak
so strongly as that,' he returned. ' Do
just as you like about it ; there can't be



any great harm after all in letting them
know there's a man we should rather like
to have engaged. I'll leave you to please
yourself about it. You can send them a
line if you wish, you know. Anything
else you want me for ? '

Ethel answered in the negative, and
withdrew from his room ; whereupon he
speedily became again absorbed in nice
calculations relating to the machine he
hoped to invent, and thought no more
of the interruption from which he had
suffered, or of its cause. And thus it
came about that Ethel quietly got her
own way (as she generally did do), and
that Mr Carton's solicitors received an intimation
which resulted in Trevor Owen's
having the much-coveted brief to appear
for the heiress in the great burglary case
which was to be tried at the forthcoming
assizes at Cwm-Eithin.

It was no wonder that he should have
rejoiced greatly upon receiving this brief,

for the case had been sensational enough
to attract a good deal of attention, and
was as favourable an opportunity as could
be desired by a young barrister who was
anxious to bring himself to the notice of
the public in general, and attorneys in
particular. Trevor knew this well, and
when the trial came off he devoted all his
energies to endeavouring to acquit himself
so as to produce a favourable impression,
first upon Miss Carton, secondly,
upon the attorneys, and thirdly, upon
spectators who might possibly become
clients at some future time. The result
was that he did not do at all badly in
any respect, and certainly succeeded in
advertising himself fully, though it cannot
be denied that his anxiety to ingratiate
himself with the heiress caused him to
bestow more time and care upon deluding
her conduct in the encounter with the
robber, than was necessary from a strictly
professional point of view.

As he described graphically what had
taken place and warmed to his subject,
he managed to magnify her into a heroine
little short of Joan of Arc, Bradamante,
or any other female paragon of chivalry,
either historical or fictitious. So glowing,
indeed, were the colours in which he depicted
her, that The Times — it being a
dull time of year, and subjects to write
about somewhat scarce — took her as the
text for a leading article upon pluck and
cool courage regarded as inseparable attributes
of the British people.

That these two things and all the other
inestimable qualities involved in their
possession, said the article, were markedly
characteristic of every Briton, was evidently
a lesson to be deduced from the
burglary that had occurred recently in the
neighbourhood of Cwm-Eithin. There it
had been shown how even our women,
high-born and lapped in luxury though
they might be, could be confidently relied on

not to shrink like cowards In the presence
of danger, but to comport themselves with
an undaunted calmness of which no
bronzed and scarred veteran need have
been ashamed. And surely, therefore, we
might with justice congratulate ourselves
upon being a nation that need never dread
loss or diminution of supremacy amongst
other nations whilst our national backbone
continued as stiff and unflinching as
it was at present.

Of this and much more to the same
purpose was the article composed, and
was very widely read and approved of,
notwithstanding a paragraph, sneering at
It as pompous and gushing, which appeared
In next day's Pall Mall Gazette.
But The Times article was the more
popular of the two. For when we read
that good qualities are so inherent In our
race as to make It well-nigh Impossible
for any member of It to be destitute of
them, we naturally receive the statement

as a personal compliment, and experience
a thrill of proud gratification which is a
very pleasurable sensation. And every
editor of discrimination bears this fact in
mind, and knows better than to be niggardly
of articles tending to the national
glorification, which will put his readers
into a good humour with themselves.

Thus Ethel, to her surprise, suddenly
found herself elevated by means of her
counsel's eloquence Into a sort of heroine
whom the country was called upon to
admire and feel proud of It was a
situation which she had neither anticipated
nor desired, and would greatly have
preferred avoiding if possible. But she
was thrust into It so unexpectedly that
she had no option in the matter, and
was obliged placidly to accept the homage
which she had no power of refusing.
It amused her, however, to have thus
discovered, by personal experience, how
extremely simple a matter it might be to

achieve celebrity ; since, in her case, she
knew that it had been attained solely by
that policy of masterly inaction of which
she was so fond, and which had been her
guide in her adventure with the burglar.
And what could possibly be more simple
than to do nothing at all ?

Richards was defended by a barrister
named Herbert, who commenced by stating
that the prisoner was most certainly
innocent of the crime whereof he was
accused, for the very excellent reason
that, during the whole of the night when
it had been committed, he had been at a
place miles away from Llwyn-yr-Allt. Mr
Herbert regretted to be obliged to add,
that the pursuit in which Richards had
been then engaged was not exactly a
legitimate one, seeing that it had been
nothing less than a nefarious appropriation
of sundry hares and rabbits. The
consciousness of the illegality of his occupation
had been the cause why Richards

had concealed himself when he heard that
he was being inquired after, and had also
been, at first, unwilling to say where he had
been on the night in question ; and it was
not till he had fully realised how much more
serious a charge than poaching had been
brought against him, that he had confessed
to the unlawful expedition just mentioned.
Here a juror inquired if there were
any witnesses who could prove the truth
of this statement ? To which Mr Herbert
replied that unfortunately there were not,
as the poaching excursion had been a
solitary one. From this he proceeded to
attack the evidence that had been brought
against the accused, insisting, strenuously,
that it was totally insufficient to justify any
jury in bringing in a verdict of guilty.
Because a man did not happen to have
witnesses who could prove exactly where
he had been at any given hour, was that
a reason for suspecting him of whatever
crime mi<jht chance to be committed at

that particular hour ? Would the jury like
to have such a rule as that applied to
themselves, and their own families ? Then,
as regarded the lost finger, on which so
much stress had been laid, let them remember
what numbers of soldiers, sailors,
and others had been thus maimed in the
service of their Queen and country. Was
each one of these men, merely on account
of his wounds — wounds which he felt he
might safely call glorious wounds — to beheld
guilty of having robbed Miss Carton
unless he should be able to prove the contrary
? Surely not ! What justice, then,
was there in singling out one unfortunate
individual from amongst the number of
the maimed to make a victim of? If the
mere loss of a finger from the right hand
were to be deemed sufficient evidence of
having committed the Llwyn-yr-Allt burglary,
then, at least, in common fairness,
prosecute all alike who were in that condition,
and not one poor wretch alone !

The jury remained long in deliberation
before they could come to any conclusion.
Richards had said nothing about this
poaching business till after he had had
plenty of time to concoct any number of
stories, and as there was no evidence
whatever to support the statement, they
thought it seemed uncommonly like a lie.
Altogether, in their judgment, the circumstances
looked to be very much against
him ; but yet, on the whole, they could
not feel quite satisfied of having enough
evidence to convict him on, either. So,
finally, they determined to acquit him ina
spirit much akin to that of the jury who
brought in the well-known verdict of, ' Not
guilty — but don't do it again ! ' And as
that was the view entertained by almost
every one else also, there was hardly a
soul, except Richards' wife Ann, who believed
the man to be innocent, notwithstanding
his acquittal.

A FIRST BALL.

l^^^g^H^T is now January. The assizes
7:# &jf are over ; Miss Carton's jewels
t).^jl^ have not been recovered ; no
clue has been found to any better solution
of their disappearance than that they were
stolen by Richard Richards, who is generally
supposed guilty of the crime, which it
is hoped that some future evidence may
eventually bring home to him. The great
burglary case is still a favourite topic of
conversation at all social assemblies in the
vicinity of Cwm-Eithin ; and a ball is about
to be given at a house not far off from that

town, whereat Imogen, having by this time
reached the age of seventeen, is to make
her first public appearance as a ' come-out '
young lady.

A girl's first ball is almost invariably
a source of some trepidation to her beforehand,
and gives rise to considerable
fluttering of anticipation, both anxious
and pleasurable, in her breast. Imogen
was no exception to the rule, though she
strongly disapproved of the excitement
which she yet could not help feeling, and
strove hard to conceal it under an appearance
of extreme nonchalance. She believed
firmly that the young and inexperienced
were held of less account than
the old habitues in the great world she was
on the verge of entering, and she did not
at all mean to be looked down upon if she
could help it. Besides that, the making
of this decided advance towards womanhood
gave her a sudden and alarming
new sense of dignity, and she was pre-vol.

II. c

pared to fire up indignantly If she should
detect even the slightest indication of any
intention of patronising her, or treating
her as a child, on the part of the elders,
to whose ranks she was now promoted.
Therefore she took the utmost pains to
assume such a stately and dignified demeanour
as should forbid anyone to suppose
it possible for her heart to be beating
an atom faster than usual in her novel
situation. But it cannot be said that she
was very successful in her attempt ; for
her expectation of keen enjoyment, just
tempered by some uncertainty as to what
things were going to be like, and the general
state of excitement in which she was, were
to be read pretty plainly in the sparkling
eyes, quick, involuntary glances around,
and flushed cheeks, which contrasted oddly
with her efforts at dignified indifference.
It was no hard matter to read her secret ;
and to see her shrinking from being supposed
to be in a state of youth and innocence,

to which most of those whom she
envied and sought to resemble would have
gladly returned if possible, was certainly a
spectacle to amuse any cynical observer.
Her condition of unwonted excitement
and anxiety to conceal it, had the effect
of greatly throwing out and enhancing
that wonderful charm, sometimes called
the beauty du diable, which is inseparable
from youth in its opening bloom ; and
thus she was looking her very best, as,
dressed entirely in white, relieved only by
one or two sprays of a delicate pink flower,
she entered the ball-room with her father.

Amongst the guests there assembled
was Sir Charles Dover, who had returned
to his own home on the day after the
disastrous fritillary chase, and had not
seen her since. That was more than four
months ago ; and in the interval she had
grown and improved in appearance so
considerably that, what with the alteration
that had taken place in her and the

different way in which she was now
dressed, he did not at the first moment
know who she was. Seeing her with Mr
Rhys, however, helped him speedily to
recognise her, and then he stood for
some moments gazing at her in mingled
astonishment and consternation. That
girl Imogen Rhys ? Where could his
eyes have been when he saw her before ?
for he had certainly not had an idea that
she was so pretty and so striking-looking.
Was it possible that he could ever have
ventured to regard that stately creature
in the light of another ' fellow,' and to
treat her accordingly — expecting her to
beat out moths for him to catch, and
refusing to surrender her own net to her
when she demanded it ? Good heavens !
what presumption, what insufferable insolence
on his part ! The mere recollection
of it made him colour with shame and
vexation, and he wondered if he had a
right ever to expect to be forgiven for

such fearful rudeness. Really it seemed
quite doubtful ; but at all events it would
do no harm to go and find out how she
seemed disposed towards him ; so, though
not without many misgivings, he went upto
where she was standing, and asked if
she would give him the pleasure of the
next dance.

His nervousness as to how she would
receive him was quite uncalled-for. She
had never borne malice for his behaviour
about the net, and at the present moment
there was no room in her head for any
recollection whatever of the matter. Eager
to dance, delighted to have found a partner
so quickly, particularly pleased at its being
some one she already knew, with whom it
would be much less formidable to make a
beginning than with a total stranger, she
accepted Sir Charles' invitation with an
unhesitating readiness which partly reassured
him. Still, however, the memory
of his past misdeeds troubled his conscience

sorely, and the unnatural dignity
with which she was endeavouring to comport
herself gave her manner a stiffness
that was anything but hopeful, after the
frank and evident pleasure of her first
reception of him had passed away. About
half of the dance was gone through without
either of them uttering anything except
the most frigid and uninteresting remarks
about the weather, the heat of the room,
the state of the floor, and similar conventional
subjects. Then the young man,
plucking up his courage, began to offer
the apologies which he said he ought
long since to have made to her for the
breach of good manners of which he had
been guilty on the day of the unlucky
butterfly hunt, and to express the penitent
horror with which he regarded his
behaviour on that occasion.

She had not been thinking of the circumstance
till he alluded to it ; but when
he did this the comical memories evoked

were too much for her dignity. She
seemed to see the whole scene over again,
the disputed possession of the net, the
chase terminating in his ducking, his subsequent
discomfiture ; and the recollection
made her forget her present ambition to
be stately, and she laughed out loud with
the fresh, joyous, pleasant laugh that was
natural to her.

Near where they were standing was a
gentleman, who had not yet taken the
trouble to procure himself a partner, and
was leaning against a wall, watching the
crowd of dancers with a face wherein
might be detected by a close observer
occasional gleams of quiet satire at sundry
of the little ball-room incidents that occurred.
At the sound of Imogen's laugh
he started slightly, and looked at her attentively.
Surely, he thought, he had heard
that laugh before ; not only that, but it
seemed connected in his mind wide the idea
of some unwonted emotion. Strange, too ;

for the more he looked at the girl, the more
certain he felt that she was a complete
stranger to him, and that he had never
before set eyes upon her. But then how
could he have heard her voice ? That he
had done so he was convinced ; and that
it had impressed itself indelibly on his
memory, and had some peculiar association
connected with it. But what the association
was, when he had heard the voice, and
why he should have remembered it so particularly,
were things which he could not
for the life of him recollect ; and for some
minutes he stood perplexed, vainly endeavouring
to solve the mystery. At last,
however, the memory he was searching for
suddenly came back to him, and the puzzle
was cleared up. After that he leant
against the wall, looking on at the dancers
as before ; only his eyes turned more often
upon Imogen than upon anyone else, and
when the dance concluded he began to
make his way towards Mr Rhys.

That good gentleman was by this
time deep in conversation with Sir John
Smith, an old crony whom he had not seen
for some time, and whom he had greatly
rejoiced to find at the ball. The two had
quickly commenced discussing the famous
burglary case, and Mr Rhys had at once
stated his very decided opinion that
Richard Richards was the burglar.

Of course,' he added, ' I don't say that
there was evidence enough for the jury to
have convicted him — that's quite a different
matter, and I don't dispute that they
did all they could do. But for all that
you may depend upon it he's the man ;
and so we'll find out some day.'

Sir John was not quite so positive.

Do you think you will ? ' answered he.
Well, I don't think it's unlikely ; but I
I don't feel by any means sure of it either.
You see the being short of a finger was
the only thing against him that was what
one would call very definite ; and, as Herbert

said, It would be deuced hard lines to
convict a fellow upon that alone. Why, I
have spoken to two men here to-night, in
this room, who have each lost a finger ;
but that doesn't make any one suspect
them of having broiled Miss Carton.'

No, of course not,' returned Mr Rhys.
But then look at Richards' character and
position, and see how against him they
are also. He's been a poacher for years,
it's well known. And you don't tell me
that a man who's got the habit of helping
himself to other people's things at pleasure,
will confine his thefts exclusively to one
kind of property. It Isn't likely. So I
stick to my opinion as to Richards' guilt —
a nice sort of neighbour for me just outside
my grounds, isn't he ? But, by-the-bye,
which are the two fingerless men here
to-night whom you mentioned } '

One of 'em's Tompkins's of the One-teeth,'
replied Sir John ; ' you know he got
his finger shot off in Africa or India, or

one of those places, fighting against some
niggers or other — I forget their names.
The other man is that young Sylvester
who's with the Messrs Glass, and doing so
wonderfully well, people say. He can't
be above thirty, and brought no capital to
the business ; but he's altogether in Messrs
Glass' confidence, I believe, and quite like
one of the firm — sure to be a partner before
long. Ah ! Here he is coming towards
us now.'

As he finished speaking, they were
joined by the gentleman who had been
so curiously affected by hearing Imogen's
voice.

How do you do, Sylvester ? ' said Mr
Rhys, greeting the new-comer. ' We've
just been talking about the burglary.
Very little doubt in my mind as to
Richards having done it — don't you agree
with me ? '

Indeed I do,' answered Sylvester,
and so do most other people too, I

fancy, for one hardly ever hears a contrary
opinion, go where one will. If the
police don't relax their vigilance because
of the acquittal, but go on watching him
steadily, the chances are that they succeed
in bringing it home to him sooner
or later.'

Very true,' returned Mr Rhys — ' very
true indeed ! And then, perhaps, I shall
get the fellow out of that house where he
lives — just under my nose, as I may say.
I must speak to my brother magistrates,
and see that the police keep their eye on
him, eh ? '

You can't do better, I should say,'
replied Sylvester. ' I had an opportunity
of doing something in that way myself a
few nights ago, when I met some of the
authorities at dinner, and this affair was
talked about. I said all I could about the
danger of the attention of the police being
taken off upon false scents ; and I hope my
words may have done some good. But,

Mr Rhys, my object in coming to you now
is to ask you to introduce me to your
daughter. She was away when I was
staying at Llwyn-yr-Allt, so I have not
yet had the pleasure of making her
acquaintance.'

'Oh yes, Til introduce you to her with
pleasure,' was the answer. 'She's sure to
be back soon now the dance is over. I
see her coming this way now.'

The ceremony of introduction between
Imogen and Mr Sylvester was soon performed,
and then Mr Rhys returned complacently
to his conversation with Sir John
Smith.

I like to know who Imoeen's dancings
with,' observed Mr Rhys, * for fear else
she might have some partner whom I
shouldn't approve of. It's her first ball
to-night, and of course she hardly knows
anyone yet. My sister Sophia offered to
come here with her and chaperon her instead
of me, but I thought I'd better do it

myself. You see it's never quite the same
thing to a girl if she doesn't go out with
her own parents ; no one else is so sure to
look after her sharply, and take so much
trouble about her as they do. And it
would be such a nuisance to have one's
daughter make any disreputable acquaintances
! Well, Imogen seems all right for
the present, and doesn't require any more
looking after just now, so come and sit
down. Smith. I want to tell you about a
poor-law case which bothered our union
lately so that they begged me to come
and help them decide it, though I don't
generally go in for that sort of thing, or
attend the meetings of guardians. But it
seems to me a most exceptional case, and
I should like to hear your views about it'
So he and his crony were soon immersed
in the intricacies of the poor-law, whilst
Imogen was whirling around the room
with Mr Sylvester. His capabilities as a
partner were undeniable, and she found

valuing with him gave her a fresh insight
into the poetry which it is possible to find
in motion. Apparently he found her as
satisfactory a partner as she did him, for,
instead of taking her back to her father
when the dance was over, he took her to
have some coffee, and managed to keep
her in the tea-room till the next dance commenced.
Finding she was not engaged
for it, he asked her to dance it with
him, which she was very ready to do, being
delighted to have found so good a partner.
At the end of the dance he took her fora
turn in the passages and conservatory,
loitering about outside till another dance
had commenced ; and then, by repeating
the former process, he managed to secure
a third dance in succession.

This monopoly of her was observed
with extreme disfavour by Sir Charles
Dover, who wanted to dance again with her
himself, and hung about near where her
father had established himself, watching

for her to return, and fretting and fuming
that she did not do so. It seemed quite
extraordinary to Sir Charles that she
hadn't got tired by now of that fellow
who was sticking to her so pertinaciously.
Perhaps he knew something about that
wretched 'bug hunting' that she was so
fond of, and that was what made her goon
talking to him and dancing with him
so long. But, anyhow, it was really very
odd of her father not to insist on her
coming back to him after every dance.
Most girls were expected to do it. Sir
Charles knew ; and though he thought the
rule quite a needless one in many cases,
still, with a girl just out, and a partner
she'd never set eyes on before — in short,
with things exactly as they then were — he
was quite convinced that the rule ought
to be strictly enforced. If it had been he
that had been Imogen's partner, it would
have been quite a different matter ; but
then he had met her before, been staying

in the house with her, and was altogether
a different person. In his Impatience he
made one or two attempts to give Mr
Rhys a hint that he was neglecting his
duties as a chaperon. But It was to no
purpose. The poor-law argument had
become more and more interesting In the
process of being detailed and explained
to Sir John Smith, and Mr Rhys had
quite forgotten the need of bestowing any
particular care upon looking after a young
and utterly Inexperienced girl at her first
ball.

'Where's Imogen, did you say?' he
returned, in answer to Sir Charles' inquiries.
' Oh, she's dancing with someone
or other — was here just now — be back again
directly, I daresay. — Well, to return to
what I was telling you, Smith, about that
pauper receiving out-door relief,' etc., etc.,
and thus he chatted away contentedly,
while poor Sir Charles alternately inwardly
anathematised Sylvester, and wished that

VOL. II. D

entomology had been included in his own
education, in order that he might have
been thoroughly well qualified to make
himself agreeable to Imogen.

It was not until the small hours of the
morning that Imogen got home from the
ball, and had leisure to look back upon
the events of the night. When she did
so, she at once came to the conclusion
that she had never before had such a
thoroughly jolly evening in all her life. It
was even better fun than the best night's
nothing she had ever had. She had had
no idea that balls were so delicious. If
they were all like this first experience of
them, she was quite sure she would like
to go to one every night regularly. Everything
had been delightful from beginning
to end ; she had danced every dance, and
not had a single bad partner for the rounds.
Then came the question of which partner
had been the best. Well, on the whole,
it was Mr Sylvester ; and somehow, in

reviewing all that had taken place, he
figured more prominently than anyone else
in her thoughts. Certainly he had made
himself very agreeable to her. Yet, still,
now that she came to think quietly overall
that had passed, was she quite sure of
that ? One or two of the things he had
said seemed capable of two interpretations,
and might have been intended either ina
complimentary or a sarcastic sense by
the speaker. She had never noticed the
possible double-entendre at the time, and
had taken them all in perfect good faith.
But as she remembered them now, she
suddenly perceived the possibility that she
might have been placidly allowing a sneering,
supercilious stranger to play with
her, and amuse himself by patronising
and laughing at her under pretence of
paying her compliments. The mere idea
of such a thing made her furious. She
only wished she had suspected it sooner,
and she would soon have shown that she

%

V
''<-"/

%^'k,

wasn't going to stand being made fun of,
and condescended to more than anyone
else, now that she was come out, and
could associate as a matter of right with
the grown-ups ! It was all the fault of
that ridiculous youth and inexperience
of hers which had prevented her from
seeing what he meant directly, as anyone
else would have done, and replying to it
properly.

But presently her vehement wrath cooled
down again, as her good sense showed
her that perhaps, after all, there might not
really be anything for her to be offended
at, and that there might be some danger
of her extreme horror of being thought
childish making her over-sensitive. It
was absurd to take offence where none
was intended ; and, after all, whatever he
had said might quite likely have been
meant in earnest, and been really as nice
and pleasant as it had seemed at the time.
Of course it would be Intolerable to think

she had been played with and treated like
a child. But then, if he hadn't done it —
why, then there was no use in worrying
herself about it as if he had !

One thing she was quite sure of, at any
rate, and that was that she had certainly
never before met anyone who was at all
like this Mr Sylvester, and that she would
have been very much puzzled to have to
pronounce an opinion upon him. She did
not quite know whether to call him likeable
or unlikely. Now and again, even
when he was making himself most agreeable,
he had given her a momentary impression
that was strange and unpleasant
an impression of being enigmatical, hard,
impenetrable, self-contained, and somehow
something she didn't like. She
could fancy him to be clever, strong,
and a man whom it would be easier to
be afraid, than fond of. Yet there was no
doubt that she had thought him charming
most of the time ; and then he certainly

did dance exquisitely ! She wondered
what Ralph would have thought of him.
Ralph generally liked jolly people — and
jolly was a term that certainly didn't seem
as if it ever could be applicable to Mr
Sylvester.

And then she thought no more about
him, but said her prayers, got into bed,
and went happily to sleep, and enjoyed
delightful dreams of nothing with Ralph,
and catching huge and marvellous moths
to the sound of enchanting dance music.

A GENTLEMAN BURGLAR.

5V^=sJri^3t .

T5;jscHAT a man should be a gentleman,
and yet stoop to commit
burglary, will, doubtless, seem
to many people an absurd and impossible
idea. Yet, since there have been known
gentlemen swindlers, gentlemen murderers,
and gentlemen card-cheats in real life, it
can scarcely be considered an unwarrantable
stretch of imagination for a novelist
to suppose it possible also for such a person
as a gentleman burglar to exist — more
especially when he is not represented as
making burglary a profession, but only as

having resorted to it on an exceptional
occasion, and under great stress of circumstances.
And with this justification of. our
hardihood In having ventured to Introduce
such a character, we proceed to bring
before the notice of our readers the man
who was really guilty of the robbery of
Miss Carton's jewels, and who, nevertheless,
stood high In the world's opinion, and
was trusted implicitly by his employers.
It was none other than the William Sylvester
to whom Mr Rhys had so unhesitatingly
Introduced his daughter, and who
had pronounced so confident an opinion as
to the culpability of another man In the
matter of the burglary that he had himself
committed. Destitute of principles as he
evidently is, a glance at his past history
may do something to account for his present
condition of depravity.

His father had been an officer in the
army, of good birth, poor, and wild, who
had fallen in love with a young lady at

school, and persuaded her to make a runaway
match with him. In doing this she
mortally offended all her own family, who
agreed to honore her from that time forth
as though she had never existed. Within
a year and a-half after marriage she died,
leaving a boy, William, only six months
old, to the care of a selfish, indifferent
father, who never gave a thought to the
wants of anyone else, so long as he himself
was satisfied. He regarded the child
as a sort of inevitable appendage, which
he could not help keeping and providing
for ; but when he had done that much, he
considered that he had fully discharged
all parental obligations, and had not the
remotest intention of bothering himself as
to the brat's education, or of allowing his
own amusements to be interfered with on
its account.

At the time of the mother's death Captain
Sylvester's regiment was quartered
abroad, and continued there for some

years, moving about to various military
stations. Thus little William's early life
was spent in knocking about from one
foreign town to another in charge of a
wide variety of nurseries — usually all
of indifferent character — without any particular
care or training being bestowed
upon him ; and in that process he learnt
to be self-reliant by dint of bitter experience,
which taught him that there was no
one else for him to rely upon.

Presently Captain Sylvester married
again, and a stepmother appeared upon the
stage of William's young life. She was a
foreigner, every bit as worldly and selfish
as her husband, and quite as Incapable of
attempting to befriend or understand any
creature that was not necessary to her In
order to contribute In some way or other
to her gratifications. She had no objection
to her stepson as long as he kept out
of her way and did not interfere with her ;
but otherwise — woe betide him !

Not long after this second marriage his
father died, and during the time that the
widow wore her weeds she allowed the boy
to remain under her nominal care as before,
because that was less trouble than taking



any active steps to get rid of him. But it
was different when, as soon happened, she
took to herself another husband. Then
the unnecessary boy in the house became
an encumbrance and a nuisance to her,
which she determined not to tolerate any
longer ; so she communicated with his
father's family, asking what was to be done
with this boy for whom she declined to be
further responsible. The reply was that
she had better send him to a school in
England, and the address of the school
recommended was given ; thither she at
once despatched him, and thus washed
her hands of him for the future.

At school he spent the next years of
his life almost exclusively. Nobody
wanted the bother of a strange boy coming

Into their homes, so when holidays
came, and other boys went away, it was
always arranged for him to stay on at
school, or else to go abroad with some
master who might be meditating a foreign
trip and glad of a companion so well
versed in foreign languages, manners, and
customs as was William Sylvester. He
certainly did well at school. Resolute,
clever, fearless, unscrupulous, and rarely
failing in anything he undertook, he
seemed to have an aptitude for success,
which was little short of marvellous in
the eyes of those who failed to perceive
the force of his character. Whatever he
wanted, that he would get; wherever he
might be, his individuality was sure to
predominate over and dwarf down that
of others ; whatever opposition he met
with, he would infallibly crush it down
by some means or other; and he had
never been known to make an intimate
friend of anyone, though he was on civil,

and apparently amiable terms with most
people. Such was the opinion entertained
about him by his companions when his
school days were over, and he was entering
upon manhood. And when the desultory
and neglected nature of his 
is taken into consideration, will
it not go far to account for much moral
obliquity of character ?

Left continually, from earliest childhood,
to his own resources, to knock about hither
and thither as he pleased, and do the best
he could for himself provided he did not
get in other people's way, it was but
natural that he should have soon grown
accustomed to depend only upon himself.

The people with whom he had had most
to do, and to whom had been directed
the instinctive admiration and veneration
felt by a very young child for the men
and women with whom it lives — these
people had been hard, selfish, and worldly;
and he had dwelt with them and become

imbued with their spirit, till he had grown
like unto them. Affection he had never
experienced. His mother had died when
he was too young to remember her, and
since her death there had never been anyone
to love him and whom he might have
loved in return. He had no near and
dear relations belonging to him as he saw
that most other people had, and he had
long ago realised that he stood alone in
the world — that there was no one he could
trust to except himself, and that if he
hoped to succeed in life, it was to himself
and none other that he must look for the
means of that success.

Just about the time he was leaving
school, and when the relations who had
put him there were wondering what was
to be done with him next, it happened
that an opening came to one of them for
placing a young man in the great business
house of Messrs Glass. This opening
having been offered to and rejected by

the son of the relation in question, was
passed on to young Sylvester, by whom
it was willingly accepted. Having thus
got his foot upon the ladder, he proceeded
at once to make the most of his opportunities,
and rose with extraordinary rapidity
to the confidential position which
he now occupied in his employers' concerns.
By what means he had risen,
whether always fair or not, is a matter
which need not be inquired into too
closely here — at all events, he had risen,
and that fact is quite sufficient for present
purposes.

Notwithstanding the swift rate at which
he was advancing towards fortune, his progress
was still not fast enough to content
his ambition ; and consequently he was
continually dabbling in speculations whenever
he thought he saw a likely chance of
making money. He loved the excitement
attending these ventures, and the greater
the risk the more fascinating he found

them ; but he was careful to keep them
as strictly secret as possible, lest they
should become known to the Messrs
Glass, by whom he knew they would be
strongly disapproved of. His speculations
had more than once reduced him to
great straits for ready money ; and when
this occurred he had not hesitated to avail
himself of his position of trust, in order
to embezzle his employers' money and
utilise It for his own purposes. At last
it unluckily happened, that shortly after
one of these surreptitious withdrawals of
funds belonging to Messrs Glass, a sudden
and totally unforeseen occurrence
made It necessary for him either to restore
what he had taken sooner than he
had expected to have to do so, or else to
face inevitable detection of his peculations.
Many thousand pounds were required to
replace the deficiency in the accounts, and
unless he could procure the money by a
certain early date, he knew that he must

be found out. He racked his brains to
see if there was anyone else who could
be made to appear guilty of the embezzlement
instead of him — but to no purpose ;
circumstances had so fallen out, that if the
crime were discovered the blame of it
would unavoidably fall entirely upon his
own shoulders. He had no option but
to restore in time the large sum he had
appropriated, or else be ruined.

Where was the money to come from ?
He had no rich friend to apply to.
Money-lenders would not lend to a man
who had no security to offer ; or if they
did, it would be only at the most exorbitant
rate of interest, and besides, he
knew that his prospects with his present
masters would be at an end if they should
hear of him as having had recourse to the
Jews. Just when he was in this dilemma
he happened to be with some people who
mentioned that Miss Carton was going to
stay at Llwyn-yr-Allt for the forthcoming.

II. E

ing grand function at Cwm-EIthin, and
then they went on to talk about her
famous jewellery, and to speculate as to
its Immense value. As he listened to
their Idle gossip the Idea suddenly flashed
upon his brain that If he could possess
himself of this treasure he would be saved.
Why should he not do It ? He could find
his way about In Llwyn-yr-Allt perfectly,
for he had been visiting there, and his
memory was singularly retentive for any
place that he had once stayed at ; therefore
when he should have got Into the
house he would have no difficulty If he
knew which room she slept In ; and he
anticipated little trouble In finding out
that through some servant. Never having
met the heiress he was personally
unknown to her, and there was no danger
that she would recognise him ; besides,
he would disguise himself thoroughly.
He was fond of acting, and had a considerable
turn for it; why should he not

now turn this talent to account, get up a
little comedy of his own, play the part of a
burglar, and carry off jewels that were
not the mere stage shams that usually
figure at theatricals, but genuine, costly,
and (to him) salvation-bringing precious
stones ? The risk and novelty of the proposed
comedy, and the possibility of its
turning at any moment into tragedy, made
it all the more attractive and exciting to
him. The more he reflected upon it the
more feasible it appeared, and finally he
put the scheme into execution in the
manner that has been already shown.

He had previously asked his employers
for, and been granted, a week's leave of
absence ; as soon as he had secured the
jewels he went abroad without a moment's
delay, and there managed the breaking
up and sale of his spoils, — a business
which he transacted by aid of certain low
and infamous foreign jewellers, of whom
he had already some knowledge. Then,

returning home in triumph with the sum
he required, he paid back the loan that
had been borrowed without leave, before
any one had detected that there was anything
missing. But it had been a nearer
shave than was altogether pleasant, and he
had been only just in time to save his credit.
He had been quite delighted to find
another person accused of the burglary.
The precautions he had taken made it
impossible, as he believed, that he himself
could ever be suspected of it ; but,
of course, the more false scents there were
the better ; and when people felt convinced
that the real criminal was safe in prison,
they were naturally apt to discontinue
searching for him elsewhere. Sylvester
had no principles of morality to prevent
him from hoping earnestly that the accused
would be pronounced guilty by the jury ;
and it would have given him complete
satisfaction, unalloyed by a single twinge
of pity or remorse, to know that the crime

he had committed was being expiated by
an innocent man. Provided the law got
hold of some one to punish, then Sylvester
knew that it would be quieted ;
and all he cared for was, that the victim
should not be himself. Therefore he had
been greatly disappointed at the acquittal
of Richard Richards. Still, it was satisfactory
to see what an intensely strong
feeling still prevailed against the man ;
and never did Sylvester lose an opportunity
of strengthening and encouraging
that feeling, since it evidently conduced
much to his own security.

Security ! Sometimes in his solitary
musings he would wonder whether, after
all, absolute security was really as great a
good as people in general deemed it to
be — whether any state of existence so
tame, monotonous, and stimulating as
the idea that was presented by these two
words, could possibly be a happy and
desirable one. As far as he was concerned,

the sensation of absolute security
was a thing which he had long ago
determined to do without — Indeed, he was
by no means sure that he should care
about it now, even If he could have It.
An element of change and danger gave
existence a spice that was not unwelcome ;
and there was nothing better adapted to
develop what resources and capacities a
man had In him, than the being really
hard pressed — the being driven to save
himself or perish. Absolute security
meant dulness, too, and he hated being dull
unless some very great advantage were
to be gained thereby. What fun he had
enjoyed out of this burglary — and did so
still, for the matter of that ! For what a
joke it was to hear the affair discussed
and speculated upon in the most ridiculous
manner, by people who little dreamt
that the real criminal was amongst them,
and taking part gravely in their absurd
conjectures ! And how amusing to mix

in society, and find himself respected and
welcomed by those who had no more idea
of his real self than an unborn baby !
Good Lord ! if they only did know him
as he was, what a fearfully black sheep
he would be considered ! How promptly
they would expel him — what a commotion
would take place — how tremendously
shocked they would be !

Yet what right had they to be shocked
or to pretend to be so ? People had
been fools enough to set up an absurd
standard, and to choose to assume that
everyone lived according to it. But what
rubbish that was ! It was clearly the
right of each man to live his life in anyway
that seemed good in his own eyes
and it was nonsense to try and interfere
with that right. Obviously the
wisest course of action that was open to a
human being, was to prey upon his fellow-creatures
to whatever extent their folly
might allow him to do so. Therefore why

affect surprise when any one did this ?
One man's chance was as good as another's,
provided that his brains were
equally good. And supposing that they
were not, then that was an unavoidable,
inborn defect to which he must resign
himself; in that case he must make up
his mind always to come off second-best
in the world, just as much as though
he had gone into a battle suffering from
blindness, deafness, lameness, or other
bodily deficiency.

Of course Sylvester knew something of
what he termed contemptuously ' the
rotten old conventional ideas' about religion,
morality, etc. ; but they had made
little or no impression upon him apparently,
and he reflected complacently that
all such stuff had soon been knocked out
of his head by the rough process of making
his way in the world. He was aware
that some people professed to believe in
these ideas as being true ; but to his mind

such people must either be fools who
believed what they did not understand,
or else liars who did not really believe
what they said they did. In either case
their professed belief was a thing with
which he had nothing to do — a parcel
of rubbish about which he never troubled
his head. The sole standard of duty he
recognised was to advance his own interests
under all circumstances. And it
seemed, too, to him, that even supposing
it possible for there to be any truth in that
absurd theory of some future state of
existence following when the present one
is ended, then whoever had done well
by himself in this life, would stand a
very good chance of doing ditto in the
next also ; since he would have acquired
an invaluable habit of self-advancement
which he would never lose as honos as his
individuality was unchanged, and which
must certainly prove useful to him wherever
he might be. The best possible

maxim to live by was, take care of number
one ; and if a man did that thoroughly he
would never be guilty of the foolish weakness
of troubling himself about whether
other people went to the wall or not.
Consideration for others, and all that sort
of thing, was sentimental bosh ; and it was
an article that he neither wanted, nor yet
would give. His own hands should keep
his own head ; and let other men look out
for the77tsQ\vQS, as he was prepared to lookout
for himself

And with this exposition of the sentiment
and principles of action, grim rather
than aimable, of our gentleman burglar,
we will close this chapter.

A SUNDAY CALL.

RAPPED up in a coat-of-mail
of selfishness ; untouched by
the softer, more elevated emotions
of human nature ; secretly setting
at nought and despising all recognised
standards of morality, Sylvester now
gloried in his own hardness, and superiority
to what he deemed the common
weaknesses of humanity. Yet he had
not always been so ; and there had been
a time, long years ago, when he would
have shrunk with horror from such a person
as was his present evil self. That

had been when he was a little, lonely
fellow, before yet his training had had
time to harden him altogether, and when
he was still childishly innocent enough
to be credulous. It was but very seldom
that anything of religion or goodness had
been mingled in the instructions of his
neglected childhood ; yet still, now and
then from some nursemaid or chance person
there had fallen a stray scrap of better
teaching, which had at the time been
readily accepted by him as true, and believed
in implicitly.

In some inexplicable way the recollection
of those early, innocent days had been
brought back to him suddenly and forcibly
by Imogen's voice and laugh, as he had
heard it whilst hiding outside the window
through which she had just emerged, on
that night when he had stolen Miss Carton's
jewels. For a moment there had
rushed over his soul a wave of strange,
wistful yearning that seemed about to

suffocate all other emotions within him.
But then it had disappeared immediately,
and the subsequent stirring events had
caused him to forget all about it till he
happened to hear her talking and laughing
at the ball with Sir Charles, just as
she talked and laughed in the early dawn
outside Llwyn-yr-Allt with her brother.
That made him remember the extraordinary
impression her voice had produced
on him before, and for an instant
he half thought that it was going to affect
him again now in the same way. The
feeling passed away, however, and he began
to wonder what could have made
him notice her voice more than that of
anyone else, and why it should have had
this odd effect upon him. It was a pleasant
voice, certainly ; probably the key
in which it was pitched was one that
chanced to be peculiarly adapted to the
resonance chamber, or the auditory fibres
of his ear — that would no doubt account

for Its having struck him so
strongly.

Having got Introduced to her to see
what she was like, he had been much
amused with her. The half-repressed excitement
by which she was animated, and
the three elements of childish simplicity,
tomboylsh love of enterprise, and Innocent
womanliness which were struggling for the
supremacy within her, had Imparted to her
conversation a quaint flavour that he found
refreshing, and he had contrived to draw
her out for his amusement without much
difficulty. In order to do this it had been
necessary to dance with her a good many
times more than had seemed at all fitting
in the eyes of Sir Charles. And thus it
was not unnatural that when the ball was
at an end, and Sylvester had returned
home and settled himself comfortably in
front of the fire for a last smoke before
going to bed, she should have occupied a
conspicuous place In his thoughts.

She certainly wasn't one of your die-away,
Insipid misses ; and somehow there
was something decidedly attractive in her
though what made her so he found it
hard to say. Of course any real union of
interests between two human beings was
a thing both undesirable and impossible ;
yet had it been otherwise he really did
believe that such an infliction would have
been more nearly tolerable with her than
with anyone else he had ever seen. The
whole world, as far as he came in contact
with it, was clearly intended for him to
prey upon ; yet if by any concatenation
of circumstances he had found himself
compelled to exempt some one individual
from the general category of victims, and
identify that person with himself as the
object whereon to bestow the spoils of
which he had deprived the others, then he
could almost imagine himself selecting her
to be the favoured exception.

It must not be supposed from all this

that his thoughts were turning in the
slightest degree towards matrimony. Being
hampered with a wife was an idea
which he had never been able to contemplate
without a shudder of horror.
He regarded marriage as an intense
nuisance — a yoke from which he fully
intended to keep clear. That people
should marry for any other reason than
that of advancing their interests was incomprehensible
to him ; even then he
thought it the most distasteful of all
means for attaining the desired end, and
was resolved not to have recourse to it in
his own person unless it should be the
only road possible to success. But a little
flirting was a very different affair, and he
had not the least objection to enjoy himself
in that way with any woman who
might take his fancy. You did not commit
yourself to anything in a mere
flirtation ; and directly you grew tired
of the amusement you could drop it and

be off again, free and unfettered as the
winds.

Well ! he thought on the whole he
should go and call at Llwyn-yr-Allt in the
course of the next day or so. And having
arrived at this conclusion, and finished his
tobacco, he proceeded to get into bed.

The ball had taken place on a Tuesday ;
and as some unexpected business, which
could not be neglected, occupied him
entirely during the remainder of the week,
it was Sunday before he found himself at
leisure to pay his proposed visit to Llwyn-
yr-all. Having no wish to attract special
attention to his proceedings by any sort of
singularity, he always made it a rule to
conform outwardly as far as possible to
the moral code by which society chose to
be governed — however much he might
secretly and really set it at defiance. This
habit now made him reflect upon the likelihood
that he might shock prejudices if he
went calling on a Sunday ; and he debated

VOL. II. F

with himself whether it would not be wiser
to delay his visit till another day. There
was another drawback about Sunday calls,
too ; and that was that there was always
a chance of finding people gone to church
which was a bore when one wanted to
see them. On the whole, perhaps it
would be best to wait, and then go on some
week day.

Yet for the matter of being at church,
he doubted that Imogen was of a turn of
mind to find church an interesting place ;
and the more he thought of It, the more
convinced he felt that she would probably
consider an attendance at the regular
Sunday morning service quite enough of
that sort of thing for one while, and not
care to repeat the performance till another
seven days should have elapsed. Then as
far as offending prejudices were concerned,
it was really only the most rigid of Saba
who were likely to be shocked so
easily ; and he felt pretty sure that the

o

Rhys family were not to be reckoned
amongst that class. For, after all, there
was nothing at all out of the way In paying
a visit on a Sunday afternoon, provided it
was done on foot. Lots of people did that
unhesitatingly who would on no account
have taken out horses and carriages for
the purpose ; and so no one could see
anything remarkable in his doing the same.
And thus the end of his deliberations was
that he decided to go and make his call on
foot.

The pedestrian part of this decision was
no light sacrifice to appearances for him to
make. Llwyn-yr-Allt was some distance
off, and he contemplated the prospect of the
long, dull walk before him with anything
but satisfaction. In his stables stood his
horse Crambo — an animal of whom he had
good reason to be proud, since it was
unusually handsome, and as perfect in
qualities as in appearance ; Crambo was
pining for a gallop, and on Crambo's back

the journey would be performed in far less
time, and with far more ease and enjoyment
than on his own feet. But then if
he were seen riding about the country on
a Sunday, there would be the danger of
scandalising his employers, whom he knew
to be somewhat puritanical in their ideas ;
or if not them, perhaps he might offend
some other narrow-minded bigot, and thus
risk losing that character of being a pink
of propriety and respectability which he
now bore universally. And the less he
desired to have his life looked into, the
more it behoved him to be strictly circumspect
in all his behaviour ; so he resigned
himself to the uninteresting walk,
and set off.

Before he had quite reached his destination,
he was disgusted to behold Mr Rhys
and Imogen coming along the road towards
him in attire which clearly proclaimed that
they must be bound for church. Then he
had had this long grind all for nothing,

and would just have to grind back again
without accomplishing his object, after all ;
how provoking !

I was on my way to see you,' he said,
after the first greetings had been interchanged
; ' I was coming to inquire
whether Miss Rhys had recovered from
the fatigues of the ball the other nio^ht.'

Were you, indeed ?' returned Mr Rhys,
hospitably ; * how unlucky ! Should have
been so glad to have been at home to
receive you — so sorry you happen to come
just as we are going to church. I tell
you what ! why shouldn't you come too,
and then return with us when service is
over? Imogen '11 give you a cup of tea,
if you like ; won't you, Im — eh ? Or if
you'd prefer something better than slops
after your walk, you'll only have to say
so and you shall have it. Yes, yes ! that'll
be the best thing for you to do.'

Sylvester acquiesced willingly. The
society of the person who was the object

of his visit would be a compensation for
the bore of going to church ; so he turned
back, and accompanied the Rhys' thither,
looking as demure, decorous, and altogether
unexceptionable a young man as anyone
need desire to see.

It was a church in which there were no
pews or appropriated places, so that the
congregation was at liberty to sit where
it pleased, and his companions went into
a vacant seat, where there was room for
him to follow them if he chose. This,
however, he did not do. If he were where
Imogen could see him, he would feel bound
to make himself uncomfortable by kneeling
down for the prayers, in orthodox fashion,
lest he might perhaps otherwise Incur her
displeasure ; so he established himself close
behind her, where he could hear her voice
when she sung, and see her without being
seen In return. He watched her curiously
during the service, and amused himself by
speculating as to what the motive was

likely to be which had brought her therefor
a second time in the day ; for he had
discovered from something she said, that
she had been at the morning service also.

Funny sort of way for a girl like her
to care about spending her time,' he reflected.
* I know lots of people do it
because it's Ike right thing; but, unless
I'm greatly mistaken, she's not the one
to trouble herself about regulating her
actions by that rule as much as most do.
No ; I bet she's got some private reason
of her own for coming here. Can't be
nothing, since she wouldn't be able to hunt
a moth, even if she saw it. Possibly it's
the music that fetches her. Or, perhaps,
it's the curate that she's after. I've a
fancy to know what It is, at all events.'

By way of sounding her on this point,
he thought he would criticise the service
a little when it was over, and see how she
took it. He had a fine opportunity for
saying what he liked during the walk

back to Llwyn-yr-Allt ; that careful chaperon,
Mr Rhys, having engaged in a delightful
gossip with two acquaintances as
soon as he was outside the church door,
called to his daughter and Sylvester to
go on in front, and he would overtake
them direct ; and as he gossiped on
happily, without thinking of the flight of
time, the other two had a good long tete-tete
without interruption.

What childish rubbish they do put into
hymns,' remarked Sylvester. ' Did you
notice that absurd bit in the last hymn
we had ? I mean those lines speaking
of a bodily resurrection, just as if any one
believed in all that now-a-days.'

Imogen looked at him in astonishment.

I don't know why not she replied ;
it's in the Apostles' Creed, so people
who say that, believe in it, anyhow.'

He raised his eyebrows with an amused
look.

You don't mean to say,' said he, ' that

you suppose whoever says the Creeds
believes every word of them to be
true ? '

His supercilious smile, and the scornful
tone in which he spoke, showed her that,
if she should confess to this belief, she
would be set down in his mind as a mere
ignorant, credulous child, who knew
nothing of the ways of men and women.
This would be a terrible blow to one who
had just begun to become ambitious of
being considered a woman of the world, and
for a moment she was strongly tempted
to deny what she really thought, in order
to save her dignity. But to be ashamed
of herself was far more undignified and
humiliating than anything that another
person might think of her ; and the truth
was the truth, come what might ; so
she answered bravely, with her head held
high, and her cheeks flushing, —

Yes, I do. I may be a great fool for
thinking so ; but I do, all the same. If

people didn't mean the words, what should
they say them for, do you think ? '

He had observed her closely, and succeeded
in guessing part of what had just
passed through her mind ; still he could
not make her out altogether.'

How can I tell ? ' he replied, shrugging
his shoulders carelessly. ' Possibly they
do it because everyone else does ; or because
they're used to it ; or because they
don't think at all about it. No doubt
they are satisfied that it doesn't much
matter — one way or other.'

I don't see how they can possibly feel
satisfied of that,' she returned quickly.
A lie always matters, and of Course
it must matter most of all when its said
out solemnly in church like the Creeds
are.'

It amused him to irritate her a little
and see her warmth in condemning lies.
Was that warmth wholly genuine, he wondered
? or was it assumed for the sake of

some private object of her own which he
had not yet fathomed ?

You're still very uncompromising In
your ideas, I see,' he said ; ' at your age
it's to be expected, you know. But when
you get a little older you'll find that everyone
Isn't so very particular about being
accurate as you now imagine. Take the
hymn singing, for Instance. You may be
sure there's plenty of notions that a congregation
wouldn't agree about in the
hymns ; but no matter for that — start any
hymn you like that has a rousing, popular
tune to it, and see If every soul doesn't
join In it full cry without bothering about
its meaning.'

Well, I can prove that that's not quite
so certain, at all events,' returned Imogen
triumphantly, ' however young and foolish
you may think me. I expect everyone
else does the same as I do myself In the
matter, and that is, whenever I'm singing
a hymn, and come to any sentiment that I

don't think I agree In, I just shut up till
that bit's past. Why, I should be merely
uttering a lie else — for whatever's untrue
doesn't become a lie any the less if it happens
to be sung instead of said.'

Was the girl a hypocrite or not ? If so
she acted her part of perfect simplicity
with wonderful ability, and he must look
upon her with increased respect and admiration
for the future. But it would not
do to let his inclination to think well of
her lead him to credit her with what she
had no claim to. And there was a horribly
honest-sounding ring about her words and
manner that made him fear lest she might
not be deserving of the platform of esteem
to which he was prepared to elevate her —
lest, after all, she might be only saying
what she really thought !

Anyhow, as she chose to take the subject
so much to heart, in appearance at all
events, he thought he had better not dwell
upon it any longer ; so he adroitly turned

the conversation in another direction, and
applied himself to extracting so much information
as to her plans and engagements
as would enable him to arrange his
own movements with a view to meeting
her occasionally. It was not very difficult
to him to draw her out, as he had already
discovered at the ball, when she had
responded to his efforts in that way by
confiding many of her hobbies to him
readily. Thus he knew her abhorrence of
the popular opinion that all women ought
to marry in order to find their proper
sphere of life, and also had been given
some idea of the grand, though vague,
desires which she entertained for being
useful in the world. He now easily found
out which were her favourite walks and
rides ; when Ralph was to leave home to
read for the army ; what parties she was
going to ; that she was going to Carton
House before long to pay Ethel a visit ; and
sundry similar pieces of information which

it might, perhaps, be convenient to him to
know. Amongst other things he thus
learnt that Sir Charles Dover was to stay
at Llwyn-yr-Allt for a couple of days'
shooting in the course of the ensuing week
which announcement he received with
perfect tranquillity notwithstanding that he
had a shrewd suspicion of how greatly Sir
Charles was smitten with Imogen. The
feeling of some peculiar interest in any
person or thing always endows one with a
preternaturally keen nose for detecting
symptoms of the same disposition on the
part of anyone else ; and the attraction
which, she had for the baronet had been
pretty evident to Sylvester on the night of
the ball. But he thought that this other'
man had not much chance of making an
impression upon a girl who was at all out
of the common run, as Imogen seemed to
be. Personally he did not know Sir
Charles, and had never seen him at all
except at the ball. He had, however,

observed him to some extent on that occasion,
and the result of that observation was
that he summed up the baronet as being a
mere healthy, well-grown, good-looking,
young fellow, with nothing in him — a
youth with no brains to recommend him,
and who was destitute of any means of
captivation save what might lie in the fact
that he was a finely-developed specimen of
humanity — in short, the kind of young-man
described by one of Mrs Oliphant's
Scotch characters as, ' just a long-leggit
lad.' And Sylvester would have curled
his lip contemptuously at the idea that
'just a long-leggit lad,' was ever likely to
prove a formidable rival in anything to a
man who was equally unhandicapped by
bodily defects, and who had the advantage
of a good intellect to boot !

Ethel's unconscious influence.

^/f^HT has been already mentioned that
^^1 ^:^ Imogen was gong to stay at
^.^Ji^ Carton House, and this visit
came off In February.

It Is no uncommon thing for a young
girl to fall violently in love with one a few
years older than herself, without any particularly
apparent reason ; and whilst the
fancy lasts, its object is worshipped with
romantic devotion. This passion is generally
a short-lived, one-sided affair, seeming
at first sight an absurd and lamentable
waste of energy on the part of the worshipper.

Yet let It not be condemned too
hastily. A fierce flame helps to clear rust
out of the grate in which it burns, even if
it does nothing else ; and possibly the girl's
ardent attachment may have some similarly
beneficial effect upon her character, and
may not therefore be so altogether useless
as it seems at first.

Into a passion of this kind, Imogen's
admiration for Ethel had developed ; and
the love-sickness was just at its height at
the time of her visit to Carton House.
Ethel was utterly unconscious of the feeling
which she had inspired, because Imogen's
horror of gushing young ladies led
her to eschew demonstrations of emotion,
and incline rather to the opposite extreme
of never appearing to care much about
anyone. None the less, however, did her
thoughts at this period of her existence
run continually on the object of her attachment,
to whom she looked up with
profound reverence as to a superior being

VOL. II. G

who could do no wrong. And it would
delight her to imagine all kinds of possible
and impossible situations wherein she might
picture herself as winning Ethel's approval
by some tremendous self-sacrifice, or saving
Ethel from injury by some heroic act
generally involving the loss of her own
life.

Under these circumstances it may be
imagined that Imogen had accepted rapturously
the invitation to go and spend a
week at Carton House, and had looked
forward to that week eagerly. But though
when the time came she enjoyed her visit
very well on the whole, yet still it certainly
did not prove altogether the period of unmixed
bliss that she had anticipated, asher
pleasure was considerably interfered
with by the presence of Lady Elise who
was staying there also. Love usually
brings jealousy in its train ; and Imogen
spent much of the week in alternate fits
of felicity or misery according as she did

or did not fancy that she could discern
some marked preference for herself on the
part of her idol. To have Ethel all to
herself for a ride or walk, or to be chosen
as her assistant in any occupation, was no
doubt perfect happiness ; but then that
delight was liable to be succeeded by
agonies of jealousy if Lady Elise Bolyn
were known to have sat up talking in
Ethel's room after everyone else had gone
to bed, or to have been honoured with
any other mark of distinguished favour.

Every house has its own traditional
ways of going on, and of course in Imogen's
lover-like frame of mind she was
peculiarly open to be influenced by those
of Carton House ; for such things must
necessarily be intimately associated with
the place's mistress, and whatever bore
the stamp of Ethel's approval was, in
Imogen's eyes, at that time necessarily
admirable. Amongst the Carton House
manners and customs by which she was

especially impressed were those which
prevailed in regard to the neighbouring
villagers and poor people. To exercise
some kind of supervision over the district
seemed to form part of the daily routine
of the establishment ; the wants and ailments
of the poorer neighbours were discussed
and provided for quite as a matter
of course ; and medicine-chest, advice,
cellar, and kitchen were all freely at the
service of the sick. From time immemorial
this had been the custom at Carton
House ; and Ethel, who had been brought
up to it, and thoroughly approved of it, had
never dreamt of making any alteration.

To be thus working naturally and without
effort in a right groove, was just the
thing to suit her conscientious, but indolent,
nature. For though she would have certainly
felt uneasy if she had not known
herself to be taking some steps to share
her worldly advantages with other and
less favoured mortals, still, it would have

been a sore trial to her to think: she ought
to strike out a new Hne of her own at
home, and to take upon her shoulders the
responsibility of inaugurating an innovation
in any way.

On Imogen's previous visits to Carton
she had not taken any particular notice of
this interest taken in the villagers by the
big house ; but in her present unwontedly
impressionable condition she was struck by
it all of a sudden as if it had been a quite
new idea. Nothing of that kind was
done at her home — but for all that it
appeared to be an admirable thing. The
more she reflected upon it, the more it
commended itself to her approval. In the
first place Ethel did it, which was alone a
proof that it must be right and wise. But
apart from that, Imogen was convinced
that trying to do good to one's fellow-creatures
must certainly be a highly laudable
proceeding. She had often wished
honestly that she had something to do

that would be real work for the world —
something that would save her from feeling
as perfectly useless as she did now ;
and perhaps if she were to do as her cousin
did, and go amongst poor people, she would
thus find the gratification of her desires.

She was too shy to mention the subject
to Ethel, who had not a notion of the
temporary absolute power which she possessed
over her young relative, and who
would have been very much astonished
if she had known the meditations that
occupied Imogen's mind as she journeyed
homewards when her visit was over, and
while the influences of the week just past
were working strongly within her.

She began to ask herself whether she
should try her hand at going to see poor
people. True, she did not feel any special
inclination or qualification for the employment
— but what did that matter if it
was right ? Then, too, Ethel did it ; and
she would like to do the same as Ethel.

To endeavour to follow in her footsteps
was to offer her a sort of homage. It was
most improbable that the adored one
would ever come to know of the offering
of that homage, no doubt. But it would,
for that very reason, be all the more a
worthy tribute to pay, since it would be
impossible to deny the true loyalty and
sincerity of spirit which could bring an
offering without looking for any return
whatever — not even for so much as a word
or thought of gratitude.

As these thoughts passed through her
mind Imogen realised that she was in
an unwontedly high-flown, exalted, and
virtuous mood, and knew also that she
would do well to make the most of it while
it lasted. Experience had taught her that
such moods were not to be reckoned on
with certainty, either for duration or recurrence
— (a proof of the depravity of
her nature over which she had often
sighed, and which had sometimes even

troubled her quite seriously until some
fresh idea had come into her head and
made her forget it again). The matter
that seemed to her of most immediate importance
now, therefore, was at once to
make some definite plan of action, so as
to lose no time in beginning to carry out
her good resolutions before they should
cool down. But then came the difficulty
of how to make a first start with this new
task that she was thinking of setting herself
— or at all events of experimenting
upon. Here she felt very much at sea.
She was not like Ethel who had visited
amongst poor people all her life, and knew
them, and their families, and all about
them — even to the very names and ages
of many of their children ! When Ethel
walked into a cottage and asked after the
asthma, rheumatics, bad leg, or other ailments
of its inmates, there was not the
smallest sense of unusualness or awkwardness
on either side ; but it would have

been a very different position for a visitor
who had no previous acquaintance there,
and was simply In terra incognita without
any ostensible reason for the visit. It
would be too detestably intrusive and ill-mannered
for a stranger to set about a
sort of house-toulouse visitation to find
out people's circumstances, and go poking
unasked into cottages without knowing
the names of the inhabitants or anything
about them !

The difficulty of making a start seemed
almost insurmountable, when there suddenly
flashed into her mind like an inspiration
the recollection of the Richards
family. She had been to their cottage
once already, so she had some kind of
introduction to start from. She remembered
quite well, too, how on the occasion
of that first visit Ethel had told her she
ought to try and do something to reform
such untidy neighbours. She had not
forgotten that, even though she had not

as yet acted upon it. But she would do
so now ; it would be pleasant to be able
to fancy herself working under Ethel's
orders, whether the latter should ever
come to know of it or not ; and in such
work she would have a sort of feeling
of keeping her beloved cousin's presence
continually with hen The Richards
family seemed the very opening she
was seeking, and not a moment would
she lose in availing herself of it. And
thus by the time the train rolled into
Cwm-Eithin station, her mind was fully
and firmly made up that she would go
and see the Richards' on the very next
day, come what would.

For several nights past there had been
a sharp frost, and when Ralph made his
appearance to welcome her soon after she
had got home, he was carrying his skates
in his hand. This was highly interesting
to her, as skating was an amusement she
delighted in.

Oh, I am glad to see your skates out,'
she exclaimed ; * there's been no skating
near Carton yet, but this place is colder,
I think. Is the ice bearing here ? Papa's
out, I suppose — I looked in his room, but
he wasn't there.'

Oh no ! he's gone to old Sir John
Smith's for a couple of nights, and doesn't
come back till tomorrow,' replied Ralph,
settling himself in front of the fire and
beginning to inspect and grease his skates
carefully. ' As for the ice, it's bearing all
right enough, only unluckily it's lumpy
and bad owinof to a snowstorm that came
on and spoilt it just as the water was
freezing.'

o

What an awftd nuisance ! ' exclaimed
Imogen, with the utmost feeling.

Ain't it just ? ' returned her brother.
But, however, it's some consolation that
there's splendid ice over at Llantre, and
so there's to be a no-end grand skating
picnic there tomorrow. It'll be awfully

jolly, with hockey and cricket on the ice,
and all kinds of games.'

Llantre ! ' said the girl. ' What's the
good of that to us, unless papa '11 let us
drive ? It's full ten miles, and that's too
far to walk, and perhaps he'll want the
horses for something when he gets back.'

Aha ! but I've thought of all that,'
answered he. ' I heard before he went
away that the picnic was to come off if
the frost held, so I asked him if we could
go to it. He was quite willing, and said
we might have the dog-cart to take us.
So you see that I've put the thing straight,
and arranged all about it as well as possible.
We'll have to get off early though,
for the roads are desperately slippery,
and I'm to play in the hockey match
which begins at eleven.

'All right! I'll be ready as soon as
you like,' answered Imogen, gleefully.
And then she suddenly recollected the
plan she had already made for the next

day, and which would be Incompatible
with joining the skating expedition ; her
tone changed as she continued, ' At least
no — there's something I forget ; I must
cut Llantre to-morrow, I'm afraid.'

Cut Llantre ! ' cried Ralph in surprise.
Oh ! rubbish ! It'll be an awfully jolly
day, and they say there's acres of the
loveliest Ice ever was. And besides he
added, as an additional attraction occurred
to him to bring forward, ' papa's
bought a new mare this week, and she's
to be put in the dog-cart to try tomorrow.'


'No! Is she really?' said Imogen,
eagerly. * What's she like, and how does
she go ? I wonder how she'll stand passing
through that colliery on the way to
Llantre ? I should hate to miss the fun if
she kicks up a dust'

Well ; and no more you need that I
can see. What on earth makes you say
you won't go ? '

Oh, it's only that I've got some other
fish to fry.'

Fry 'em some other day then — they're
bound to keep In this frosty weather ; besides,
a skate Is so rare a fish In these
parts, that It ought to be attended to before
any others.'

'Well — that's true,' answered Imogen,
hesitating. ' But no — I think I won't go.
You see I'd made up my mind to do
something else before I knew of the
skating.'

What's that got to do with It ? You
can unmake your mind as well as make it
up, can't you ? '

Ah, but I hate weathercocks who
never can stick to a thing when they've
settled it. I shouldn't feel square If I were
to go to Llantre tomorrow, so I guess I
sha net.'

What ever Is this important business
that you must stay for 1 ' asked Ralph,
impatiently.

Oh, it isn't anything particular she
replied.

Then, what an idiot you are to make
such a fuss about it ! Let's hear what it is
at all events.'

She had intended to keep her reason for
staying at home a secret ; but he teased
and chaffed her so about where she was
going, that she thought she was making
an absurd and needless mystery about the
affair, and told him that she had determined
to eo and see Ann Richards.

And who may Ann Richards be ? ' he
inquired.

Why, don't you know — she's the wife
of the man they tried the other day.'

Ralph gave vent to a prolonged whistle
of astonishment.

And what the dickens takes you there
all of a sudden ? ' asked he.

She hesitated a moment.

It's not exactly all of a sudden. I
thought of it some time ago,' she replied.

It's partly because of something Ethel
said ; and partly because — oh, bother !
what's the use of going into a long history
of it when it doesn't make a scrap of
difference to you, and perhaps, after all,
you wouldn't just see what I mean ? I'm
going there tomorrow, and so that's an
end of the matter ! '

Ethel was an individual whom Ralph
condescended to approve of, so the mention
of her name as being concerned in
his sister's plan made him inclined to
regard it somewhat more favourably than
before.

Ethel!' grunted he, with several shades
of otherwise-mindedness gone out of his
voice. ' Don't see what on earth she can
have to do with it ! However, she's a
good sort, and there's a fair prospect of
reasonableness about any idea that she
may have shoved into your nut. Does
she want you to go and sniff after her
jewels ? By-the-bye — that just reminds

me — you'd better wait and ask our
parent's leave first. He'll think it'll look
as if you wanted to share the swag, or
patronise crime, or something of that kind.
You bet he won't let you go.'

Imogen's sensitive pride was up in arms
at this speech, which seemed to her an impertinent
and unwarrantable attempt on
her brother's part to interfere with her
liberty of action. The idea of expecting
that young women who were out, emancipated
from the schoolroom and independent,
had to ask leave, as he suggested,
before going to any new place ! Besides,
this wasn't a new place, for she had been
there before with her father himself. She
tossed her head indignantly as she retorted,
—

Not let me go, indeed ! I should hope
I'm not such a baby that I can't settle for
myself what he'd approve of in a trifle
like that ! Of course he won't mind my
going ; and of course he won't dream of

VOL. II. H

my asking him first. He knows that Fm
grown up now, and not a child any
longer.'

Humph ! ' growled Ralph, in a tone
that was anything but convinced. * I
don't know so much about that neither.
I don't believe he'll like it for a moment.
I tell you you'd much better wait till
you've asked him. You know he's cocksure
as to Richards being the thief.'

I don't see how anyone can be that
when the jury found him innocent,' she
returned. ' Anyhow, whether he is or
not, 'isn't him, but his wife and children
that I'm going to look up. They had no
hand in his misdeeds, at all events.'

Who ever said they had ? ' he returned.
Of course I know it's no use talking to
you when you've made up your mind.
You always were as obstinate as a pig !
But, putting papa aside, still I don't see
why you couldn't go just as well tomorrow,
or the day after, or the day after that again,

or not till the frost's over and there's
nothing more amusing to do.'

It was all very well to repeat what she
had already said about having made up
her mind, hating weathercocks, etc., etc. ;
but still there was undeniably a good deal
of truth in what he said. Indeed, a year
ago she would have been entirely of the
same mind, and would have thought that
no mortal thing could be Important enough
to take precedence of a good day's skating.
But during the last twelvemonths a considerable
change had come over her. New
ideas, new pleasures, new desires, new
feelings of many kinds had begun to take
effect upon her ; and her notions of perfect
felicity were no longer quite so exclusively
tom boyish and wild as of old. At the
present moment, too, she was fresh from
the atmosphere of sincere (though perhaps
somewhat conventional) benevolence
which pervaded Carton House, and which
she had been Inhaling during the past

week. The Influence of that, of Ethel's
tranquil example and society, and of her romantic
admiration for her cousin, were still
strong upon her and inclined her towards
the cottage visit — not to mention that the
warmth with which she had maintained
her ground against her brother, had also
some tendency to make her stick to the
cause that she had espoused.

Yet notwithstanding all this, virtuous
resolutions and all the rest of it, there was
an attraction that was almost irresistible
about the Llantre skating expedition, and
the excitement of being in the dog-cart
when the new mare was to be tried. The
more she hankered after these things, the
more clearly did she begin to perceive
how much wisdom was contained In
Ralph's words.

She said nothing to him of being disturbed
by any inward wavering ; but for
all that she knew very well that her mind
was not made up really finally as yet, and

that It was still quite on the cards that he
might have her company on the drive to
Llantre next day.

It was not till late In the evening that
she was brought to a final decision by the
recollection of the two lines of Arnold's
that she had read some time ago, that had
struck her fancy, and that she had once
quoted to him —

Tasks in hours of insight willed,
May be through hours of gloom fulfilled

That seemed to her just the very thing
she had been wanting to help her to settle
the momentous question of what she should
do on the morrow. She had had her hour
of insight ; and what she had to do now,
was to profit thereby. The hour of insight
had come to her in the train when she had
determined to go and see the Richards'
next day ; and she must stick to what she
had then willed, and not let herself be
tempted to give it up now that it did not

appear quite so Imperatively necessary as
before.

So the end of the matter was that Ralph
had to drive off alone to Llantre next
morning, divided between almost awestruck
(though concealed) admiration for
her heroic virtue, and indignation at such
an Inopportune fit of goodness. Which of
these feelings should predominate he had
been unable to determine, and so took
refuge till his departure In a convenient
grumpiness of manner which could not be
considered as actually condemnatory, and
yet served effectually to convey that events
were not running altogether on lines that
he approved of, and that their failure todo
so was to be laid chiefly at her door.

It must be confessed that her eyes
turned wistfully after the dog-cart as It
rolled down the drive, and that she very
nearly sighed regretfully at beholding
some indications of skittishness on the
part of the new mare. Imogen rather

prided herself on her skating, and knew
that she was the crack lady skater of that
district. She thought how she would
have liked to go and show off her skill —
particularly If that Mr Sylvester were
there, who so seldom seemed to think
anyone could do anything worth noticing !
She was still undecided whether to like
him or not ; sometimes when they met he
only teased and piqued her, and sometimes
again he was quite charming.

And then she dismissed all unherolc
regrets for the Ice picnic, and turned
her thoughts resolutely to the improvement
she meant to effectuate In Richard
Richards' cottage. It should be like a
transformation scene in a pantomime.
There were the evil giants of dirt and
untidiness to be overcome, and there was
she to enact the good fairy and overcome
them by her wand of soap and water —
always remembering, however, that the
potent weapon was to be applied vicariously
and not with her own hands !

A SICK MAN.

S Imogen was preparing to Issue
forth to begin the combat with
the two giants that she intended
to slay, a new difficulty suddenly
presented itself to her. She had an
idea that it would not do to go and pay a
cottage-visit empty-handed, and at the
same time, she was greatly puzzled to
know what offering to take with her. The
Richards' were neither sick nor in want, sofar
as she knew, so a gift of food might
perhaps be deemed insulting — and to
wound the feelings of inferiors was far

worse than to offend equals In the same
way, to her mind. But what was there
except food, that they were Hkely to care
about having ? She had noticed that
Ethel always took some kind of creature
comforts with her when she went to a
cottage, and that it invariably seemed to
be acceptable. But then Ethel always
had such a knowledge of the people's circumstances
as to ensure her taking them
whatever was the exact thing that they
happened to be in want of; and Imogen
was acutely conscious that she herself was
totally deficient in that knowledge — which
just made all the difference.

rafter debating this knotty point for a
while, she came to the conclusion that the
cottage susceptibilities could not possibly
be hurt by her taking some dainty for the
children. So she armed herself with a
basket containing a pot of jam and some
cake, and then proceeded on her reforming
errand. Evidently it would be advisable

to begin by coming to a good understanding
with those whom she desired to
reform, and she trusted that the contents
of the basket would prove of service in
attaining that object.

Having reached the abode of the Richards',
she knocked two or three times
without getting any answer, and began to
think there was no one at home ; but then
hearing a voice within, she concluded her
knocks had not been audible, so lifted the
latch, and entered the house.

On crossing the threshold she passed
into a tiny, unwindowed, and uneven-floored
room, where If It had not been for
the light that came In through the open
door behind her, she could scarcely have
avoided the Scylla and Charybdis of a sack
of potatoes on one side and a pile of coals
on the other, by which almost the whole
space was filled up. A doorway so low
that she had to stoop in going through It,
led out of this Into what served as the

kitchen, and general living room. i\s this
kitchen had only one small window, its
illumination was not brilliant at the best of
times ; and on the present occasion it was
even darker than usual, because half the
window was stuffed up with old rags that
were doing duty where the glass had
been broken. The plaster had fallen off
the ceiling in several places, and the rafters
showed through. Beside the fireplace was
a big four-post bedstead ; and on this lay a
wild-looking man, unshaved, and unwashed,
with a filthy quilt, and sundry equally
filthy garments piled over him. His thin
face was flushed a deep red, his black eyes
roved restlessly from side to side, and
from time to time he muttered to himself,
occasionally raising his voice excitedly.
Little as Imogen had ever seen of sickness,
she at once guessed that he was very ill,
and light-headed. The only other live
things in the room, were the child Sarah
Ann, sitting on a low stool on the other

side of the fire gazing stolidly at the man ;
and a lean, half-starved kitten prowling
about the floor on a vain search for stray
scraps of food. The child did not seem at
all discomposed at Imogen's entrance, and
merely remarked, ' Mother's gone for
water.'

Will she be back soon ?' asked Imos^en,
whose shyness and fear of being considered
as an intruder, were increased tenfold by
this unexpected state of affairs, and who
felt very much inclined to take refuge in
an Ignominious flight.

She said as she'd be back now just,'
answered the child, when a repetition of
the question had made it penetrate Into her
brain far enough to produce a reply. Just
then the man's excitement increased suddenly.
Impatiently pushing back the
things that were piled on him, he sat
bolt upright, and began snatching at the
ragged and dirty relics of a curtain that
hung round the bed. This evidently

greatly distressed Sarah Ann. She
jumped off her stool, hurried to the bedside,
and tried hard to pull him down
again to a recumbent position. Finding-that
neither her strength nor height were
equal to the task, she desisted, and
looked appealingly at Imogen, as though
wondering the latter did not come to her
assistance.

Mother said as he wasn't to get the
clothes off of him for anything,' said the
child, while two big tears trickled down
her cheeks ; ' and now he's all uncovered
every bit ! Oh dear ! he 'on I lie down.'

Imogen had not the most distant idea how
to pacify a man in high fever. If only Ethel
were there ! Ethel would be sure to
know ! However, it was impossible not
to make some effort to help poor Sarah
Ann in this emergency, so the young lady
deposited her basket upon a rickety table
near the door, and went up to the bed.
As the curtain seemed to Irritate him.

she told the child to pull it back out of his
sight if possible ; and then, putting her
hand on his shoulder, she tried gently to
press him down upon the bed. These
endeavours he resisted strenuously, and,
getting a bit of the curtain into his grasp,
tugged at it with all his might. The stuff
was too rotten to bear any strain upon it,
and began to tear down from the top.
Imogen was at her wit's end to know what
to do. She felt that he needed restraint —
that prompt action of some kind must
certainly be necessary, and that she and
the child were alike ignorant and unequal
to the situation. The only idea that had
been given her of the treatment he required
was what Sarah Ann had said about
keeping him covered. That constituted
but a very scanty code of instructions with
which to take charge of a sick-room ; still,
such as it was, it was better than nothing
anyhow, and she proceeded to profit by
it by taking up one of the dirty garments

lying on the bed — which she could not
touch without an involuntary grimace of
disgust — and wrapping it round his
shoulders. To this he paid no attention
at all, and seemed to be quite contented
in continuing the destruction of the
curtains.

At this juncture the mistress of the
house made her appearance to the immense
relief of Imogen, who now felt that
whatever happened, there was at all events
a proper, responsible authority on the spot
who would know the right thing to do,
and be able to cope with the vagaries of
the sick man.

I'm so glad you've come!' she exclaimed
; ' he will try and pull down the
curtains, and we can't keep him quiet'

Ann Richards at once took in what was
the state of affairs.

Stop you,' said she. ' He do get like
this on spells ; but he shall mind me
better than some one else.'

So saying, she spoke to him in Welsh,
quietly but authoritatively, and tried to
unloose his hold of the curtains. Lightheaded
as he was, yet the familiar voice
seemed to arrest his attention and tend to
tranquillize him. He allowed the curtain
to be disengaged from his hands ; and
after that, she had but little difficulty in
making him lie down again, and let her
pile the coverings on him as before. As
soon as matters had been thus satisfactorily
arranged, she turned reproachfully to the
child, saying, — * Now, didn't I tell you not
to leave the clothes off of him, not on no
'account ? I did think as I could trust you
that much while I stepped out for a drop
o' water. But I never see such a stupid
child as you — no, indeed!'

At this rebuke Sarah Ann's face
puckered slowly up for fresh tears, and
Imogen hastened to assure the mother
that the child was in no way to blame for
what had happened, that she had done all

she could to prevent it, and that the man
was too strong to be managed by a mere
child. Ann received these assurances with
the air of a person who reserved her own
opinion, though she was too polite to contradict
her visitor. To keep a patient
covered up almost to suffocation, was in
her eyes the first duty of a nurse, and it
disturbed her greatly to think that this
rule had been infringed. * The doctor said
to mind and keep the clothes on, and not
let no draught come near him,' she informed
Imogen.

Well, he was only uncovered for such
a very little bit, that I really don't think
he can have done himself any harm. How
hot and flushed he looks ! If you were to
put some eau de Cologne on his forehead
and fan him for a bit, I daresay that might
make him more comfortable. Haven't
you got a fan anywhere?' said Imogen
completely forgetting that the possession
of eau de Cologne and fans was not the
VOL. II. r

same matter of course amongst cottagers
as it was in her own class of life.
Ann gazed at her in amazement.

Er?' was her only response.

The woman's evident mystification
showed Imoofen the ludicrous mistake
she had made ; she could hardly help
smiling at the comical idea of Ann's requiring
scent and fans, but yet was quite
cross with her own stupidity for having
taken such a thing for granted.

Oh no ! I forgot — of course you
haven't — never mind — it's nothing ! ' she
answered with some confusion. ' But
tell me, is that your husband ? I don't
know Richard by sight, as I've never seen
him that I know of And has he been
long ill?'

Yes, yes, 'tis Richard sure enough,'
replied Ann. ' He have been ill for —
how long is it ? — oh, 'tis weeks back now.
Only not quite so bad as this all the time,
you know.'

Do you know what's the matter with
him?' asked Imogen.

'Tis the inflammation, so the doctor
do say,' answered the woman ; * and so I
do believe myself too. 'Twas going about
looking for work as he got ill. Getting
wet through continual, he was, and too far
off to come home and change himself
mostly. Then one bitter cold day he was
get the blast ; and ever since that 'tis here
he have a bin — can't do a thing, and
getting worser every day. And then he
have bin worrying himself all along, what
with not getting work ; and not being a
free member of his club so that there was
nothing to come in ; and one thing and
another ; and the worry do have kept him
down, too, I do suppose.'

Why, how came he to be out of work ?
I remember that when I was here before,
in September, he was working at a colliery
somewhere. Has the colliery stopped ? '
said Imoo^en.

Stopped ? No sure ! ' was the answer.
But some other man got his place while
he was in trouble about them pools ; and
then when he was free and went back to
work again, the gaffer said something
nasty about taking on a man as people
said was bound to be a thief for all they
couldn't prove it against him. And then
Richard was a bit hot, and gave him words
back ; and after that he came away and
said as he wouldn't work there no more —
not if it was ever so ! '

And couldn't he get work anywhere
else?'

That he have been striving for, only
he missed to get it. 'Isn't no fault of
his, and that's the truth. But, you see,
when people keep telling as he's the man
that took the pools, no one don't care to
have him, — not so long as there's plenty
of others to be had. And then he got
daunted-like, and we was think to go right
away somewhere else. But he's too bad



to move now, whatever. Sh ! get away,
cat ! '

This last remark was addressed to the
kitten, which, having scented the food in
Imogen's basket, had scaled the table, and
was endeavouring to raise the lid and get
at a few crumbs to satisfy its voracious
cravings.

Imogen's sympathies were by this time
fully aroused on behalf of the sick man,
whom she now saw for the first time in
her life, and she listened eagerly to all
that his wife told her about him. Having
stood towards him — for however short a
time — in the relation of a nurse, and
having in that capacity touched him with
her hands, and racked her brains to think
what was to be done for him, made her
feel interested in him with a queer sense
of what was almost proprietorship. She
made up her mind on the spot that he
had certainly not committed the crime
attributed to him, and that he and his

family were very greatly to be pitied.
Her compassionate zeal caused her to
regard them as high-souled and persecuted
Innocents of stainless honesty, and
It would have been a considerable shock
to her had she known how far more lax
their actual code of morals was than she
imagined It to be. For, however touchy
they might be at the charge of burglary,
yet they did not consider poaching to be
stealing, In any sense of the word ; and
furthermore, they would have been almost
certain to keep for themselves any stray
article picked up in the road, even if they
had known who the rightful owner was.
But then a burglary was quite a different
matter. It was regularly going out of
one's way to break the law, and as they
felt no temptation to contravene It In that
open and violent manner, they were naturally
extremely hurt at being supposed to
have done such a thing, and resented the
accusation bitterly.

Imogen wanted to discover whether the
family were badly off for money or not,
but was very shy of making any inquiries
on that head lest she should thereby wound
the Richards' self-respect. Her bashfulness
was, however, quite needless, for Ann
had not the least hesitation in allowing
that it was, ' poor times with us now,' orin
receiving the few shillings which was all
the money Imogen had with her, and
which she laid on the table at her
departure. It seemed to Ann quite the
right and natural thing to accept any
amount of money that might be given
her — especially when the donor was one
of the gentry, and therefore necessarily
rolling in riches. Yet though ready
enough to be greedy and grasping in
some ways, the woman was free from
the begging taint, and — unless under
very extreme pressure of want — would
have gone without pecuniary assistance
sooner than humiliate herself to ask for it.

Imogen Issued from the cottage glowing
with pity for its inmates and with
indignation at the accusation which had
caused their calamities, and which, she
felt convinced, was unjust. She longed
to be able to help them in some way ;
but what was there she could do ? Of
course she would take Richard's part
whenever she had the chance, and would
never lose an opportunity of speaking
a word in his favour ; but it was to be
feared that the neighbourhood would probably
persist In sticking to its own opinion
in spite of all her championship. No,
the only really certain way of helping
him would be to find out the actual
criminal, and thus to establish her protege's
innocence beyond all manner of
doubt. But, alas ! how was that to be
done ? and what chance had she of being
able to do it '^.

POOR CRAMBO.

^T happened that just after
Imogen had left the cottage,
chance threw in her way the
very person whom she was so anxious to
discover ; though of that fact she had not
the remotest suspicion. The sound of
horse's feet coming quickly along the road
behind her, made her look round ; and
there she saw Sylvester, mounted on his
favourite Crambo, hurrying along to keep
an appointment some way off for which
he feared that he was already somewhat
late.

Punctuality was a thing on which he
particularly prided himself. It was his
boast that he had never yet failed In keeping
an engagement to the minute; and he
believed that this rigid punctuality had
been an important adjunct to his brains
in pushing him forward in life. On the
present occasion, however, notwithstanding
his haste, he pulled up on recognising
Imogen, and walked his horse beside her.
The temptation to have a few words with
this girl who had taken his fancy so
strangely was Irresistible. Crambo should
make good the delay afterwards, no matter
what the poor animal might suffer In doing
so ; for Sylvester was not a man who ever
let himself be hindered in what he chose
to do by such sentimental weakness as
consideration for the feelings of any living
thing.

The cause that makes one person like
another is generally more or less Inscrutable,
and it would be difficult to account

satisfactorily for what should have made
Imogen so attractive to this thief, swindler,
liar, and every way unprincipled Individual.
Probably, however. It was In no small degree
owing to the perfect uselessness and
honesty that distinguished her, and that
made her as strong a contrast to himself
as could well be Imagined. There was
about her a joyous downright freshness
and Innocence that had struck him from
the first ; and It seemed as If he must have
some unconscious appreciation for these
qualities, notwithstanding his cynical disbelief
In the existence of goodness. Anyhow,
from whatever source it may have
sprung, there the attraction was ; and It
was too powerful to allow of his riding
past her with no salutation except a bow
as the urgency of his appointment would
have otherwise made him do.

Why, I made sure you would be at
Llantre like everyone else, Mr Sylvester!'
she exclaimed, when he pulled up

at her side. ' How comes it you're not
gone ? '

Well, I think I might say the same to
you,' he replied. * Business kept me from
going. As for you,' he continued in a
rather sarcastic tone, as he perceived the
basket she had in her hand, * I can see for
myself what your occupation has been.
You've been playing at providence in the
matter of either soup or pudding. I know
that all ladies delight in doing that sort of
thing — more especially when the recipients
are nice, tidy old people who talk prettily,
and express their gratitude properly and
effusively for the crumbs from the rich
man's table that fall to their share.'

Imogen felt rather offended at the way
in which he spoke. For one thing, she
objected to the tone of superiority which
he had assumed ; and for another, she was
particularly ready to resent any sneer at
cottage visiting, now that she was fresh
from staying at Carton, and inclined to

think that everything done there must
necessarily be perfect.

Don't you think you may be mistaken ? '
she said dryly. * Anyhow your facts are
all wrong In the present case. Though
I'm a lady, yet I dont love taking out
puddings ; and I hadn't either soup or
pudding with me to-day ; and there are
no old people at the cottage I've just left ;
and as for talking prettily — well, a man
who's light-headed and who was trying
to tear down his bed-curtains till his wife
came In and pacified him Isn't likely to be
very careful In what he says. Is he ? '

I retract what I said,' replied he gravely,
and apologise for having supposed for a
moment that Miss Imogen Rhys was to
be generalised about like other ladles, or
to be expected to go and see any poor
person less sensational than a raving madman.
I conclude the gentleman has some
kind of fever ? probably an infectious one ? '

Poor fellow ! ' returned she. ' I fancy

it's quite as much worry as actual illness
that's put him off his head. It's the man
who was accused of stealing my cousin's
jewels ; because of that, people wouldn't
give him work, and of course he took
it to heart when he found himself looked
upon everywhere as a thief ; then as he
and his family began to get badly off that
made matters worse. And altogether he
got quite down in the mouth and was
thinking of going to live somewhere where
he wouldn't be known when he fell too ill
to move. For my part I'm quite positive
he's not the thief, and that the jury were
right in acquitting him.'

Mr Sylvester was very much amused.
Imogen's coming straight from the company
of the false to that of the real criminal
was a quaintly romantic incident, and the
absurdity of it was enhanced by her beginning
to champion the former to the
later in utter ignorance of the real state
of affairs. He delighted in that sort of

discrepancy between things as they were and
things as they would be if all were known ;
and he enjoyed it all the more when he
could feel that there was not a soul except
himself who was able to take in and appreciate
the oddness of the situation.

Yes ? ' replied he interrogatively ; ' if
you are so sure of it, far be it from me to
contradict you. I didn't trouble my head
very much about the case, as it was no
concern of mine. Still, I fancy that a
good many people who ought to know,
have grave doubts of Richards' innocence.'

I know that well enough,' she answered
eagerly ; 'but now that I've seen the man
I feel quite positive he's not guilty — somehow
I seem to know it instinctively ! If
only he could be cleared by the real burglar
being found, that woitld be a good thing ! '

What a credulous fool the girl is ! ' was
the thought that rose naturally in his mind.
Yet something about her — perhaps the
contrast between the guilty secrets of his

own life, and the absolute state of having
nothing to be found out, that was expressed
in every line of her face and every tone
of her voice — influenced and checked him
in spite of himself. He felt that for some
unaccountable reason or other he could not
look down upon her unreasoning enthusiasm
with the contempt that he would
have bestowed freely on anyone else ; and
was rather annoyed at that feeling.

'It all depends upon what you mean
by good', he said. * If it was good for
Richards, it would be ill for the other
man, wouldn't it ? And why should the
one be favoured rather than the other ? '

Justice must always and necessarily
be good,' she answered loftily ; ' so whatever's
unjust must equally necessarily be
bad. And it's a manifest injustice for a
man and his family to have their lives
made miserable on account of a crime
with which they had no more to do than
you or I had.'

This Impulsive, unreasoning belief In the
innocence of Richards was extremely irritating
to Sylvester. He wanted to try and
upset it, to show her her folly, to recapitulate
arguments that he had used scores
of times before tending to encourage the
popular feeling against the accused man.
But somehow he could not do It now.
The words seemed to stick in his throat,
as though untruth stood abashed In her
presence, and all he said was, — ' Well ;
perhaps he's only unlucky then. Some
people have good luck, and some have
bad ; I suppose he must take his chance of
that like all the rest of us. But I must
say I don't understand why you should
take his troubles so greatly to heart, seeing
that you had no hand in them, and
can't be affected by them In any way. Is
it that you are so anxious to get rid of
your happiness, that you Intend hunting
out all the grievances In the world on purpose
to worry yourself about them ? '

VOL. II. K

She coloured indignantly at this imputation
of absurd folly.

No — I'm not quite such a fool as that !
she replied. ' But it's a different thing to
want to give a hand to redress the wrongs
of some one of whom one happens accidentally
to have some special knowledge.
When a man's one's near neighbour, and
circumstances bring one in contact with
him and his belongings so that one knows
all about them, it seems to me as if that
must be almost a call to try and help him.
Troubling oneself over a case like that is
quite another pair of shoes from getting
excited about the concerns of utter
strangers. However, whether I care or
not, I'm afraid it'll make no difference to
poor Richards. The only practical good
I could do him would be if I could lay
hands on the real thief, and that's just what
I haven't a chance of, alas ! But, oh ! I'd
give anything to find him if I could. To
set right a grievous wrong like this, and

to rescue an innocent man from being
crushed bya false accusation — that would be
work that one might feel proud of — something
that would be well worth the doing ! '
Her enthusiasm had a strange effect upon
him as he listened. First he thought of
how little she suspected how easily he
could have procured her the satisfaction
she desired. But suddenly that thought
changed into an unaccountable longing
to give her pleasure at all costs, and to
find out if she could feel any interest in
him as well as in this boor whom she was
so full of. He was conscious for a moment
of a wild impulse to reveal the truth to
her — to immolate himself that she might
be contented — to say, * I am the man you
want ; what will you do now ? ' The next
instant he recoiled with horror at the idea
of such a thing having occurred to him.
Was he in his sober senses ? It was impossible
! He must be either drunk or
light-headed, and he must seek safety in

immediate flight, lest the temptation to
such madness should return. Before,
however, he could carry out this resolution,
the interview came to an end naturally,
as by this time they had reached a
field-path, which was Imogen's shortest
way home. Here they separated, and
proceeded on their respective roads in
solitude, each occupied with reflections of
a very different nature.

We will follow Imogen's first.

What a curious man that was, she
thought, and how much more pleasant at
some times than at others. She didn't like
him when he had a sneering fit on, ashe
had had to-day. She felt half puzzled
and unsafe, somehow, when he was in a
humour like that ; and yet it piqued her
pride too, and seemed almost like a challenge
to show what stuff was in her. A
person who was going to enact the part
of good fairy, and slay giants as she intended
doing, could certainly not be the

silly, insignificant child that he now and
then appeared to consider her ! That reminded
her of the original purpose of her
expedition. She was disappointed to
think that she had not yet done anything
whatever towards advancing it, and that
the Richards' had not yet heard one word
of the soap-antipater doctrine that she
designed to inculcate. However, she
would be sure to take the very first possible
opportunity for introducing it

Here her train of thought was abruptly
interrupted by the sight of a pool of water
covered with ice — which, of course, she
was not going to pass without having a
few slides. She did not continue long at
this occupation, however. Sliding was
but slow work compared to skating, particularly
when the sliding had to be done
alone, and she could not help thinking
wistfully of Llantre ; of the numbers of
people skating merrily there at that
moment ; of the fun they must be having ;

and of how dearly she would like to be
with them. She did not exactly grudge
having given up the picnic for the sake
of what seemed to her right ; but she
could not resist an undefined and depressing
doubt as to whether, after all,
the game had been worth the candle —
whether the good effectuated by her
staying at home, had at all corresponded
to the extent of her self-sacrifice. She
was but seventeen, with plenty of the
frailties of human nature ; and remembering
the keen zest with which a day's
pleasure is enjoyed at that age, is it very
wonderful that she should have felt somewhat
quam, left-out-in-the-cold, and dissatisfied
?

She pondered disconsolately on what
she should do with herself for the rest of
the day till Ralph return, and finally
determined to get out the entomological
books, and try to find the names of some
of the moths caught last year that had

not yet been named, and arrange them
in their proper places in the cabinet.
Naming moths was not a very Preoccupation
— indeed, it was the only thing
that she disliked connected with nothing.
Still, it had to be done sooner or later,
and, at all events, it would help to pass
the time on this dull day ; so she set to
work at it resolutely as soon as she got
back to the house, little dreaming of the
episode by which her labour was to be
varied before it came to an end.

Sylvester, meanwhile, was galloping
away at full speed, to save his character
for punctuality, and be in time for his
appointment. Removed from the disturbing
society of Imogen, he quickly
recovered his equilibrium, and was able
to reflect upon what had passed in his
usual frame of mind.

There was a grim comicality about the
way in which she had been confiding, without
knowing it, in the very man whom she

abhorred, and telling him how she longed
to bring him to punishment. He could
almost laugh at the recollection of it. For
all that, however, it was certainly very
needless and provoking that she should
have gone and got herself thus mixed up
with the burglary inquiry. Whoever had
to suffer for the crime, it could make no
possible difference to her ; and so why
couldn't she let the matter alone ? Had
it been any one else, he would have unhesitatingly
pronounced all this interest
about a poor man to be mere sham — got
up in order to make her appear in the
charitable-angel light, or something of that
sort. But the unmistakable candour about
her, and her perfect genuineness, had impressed
him against his will ; to attribute
any kind of cant to such a girl as her, was
a thing which he recognised to be impossible.


And so she was eager to discover the
real thief, was she ? Well ! let her do her

best then ! He had been too crafty to
leave any clue by which he could be
traced, and had not much fear of detection.
Still, it was always well to be on
the safe side ; and if she went about
championing Richards and trying to persuade
people he was innocent, it would
be prudent for him, Sylvester, to pursue
an exactly opposite course. No doubt he
had just now experienced a strange difficulty
in doing this to her face ; but that
was no reason why he should not do it in
her absence ; he could manse it then well
enough, he knew.

He used whip and spur to his willing
steed relentlessly, and by that means
reached his destination in time for his
engagement, and with just one half
minute to spare. But the handsome,
high-spirited Crambo paid the penalty
for his master's haste ; the horse's
strength and wind had been over-taxed,
and he was a mere wreck of an animal

from that day forth. Sylvester was vexed
at this, not for the sake of his poor steed,
but because he had been proud and, in a
way, fond of it, and knew he would have
some trouble in replacing it. Yet he had
not the generosity to care longer for a
creature when it had ceased to be able
to minister to his wants. It then became,
in his eyes, merely so much live lumber to
be got rid of with as little loss as possible.
Therefore the past faithful services of
Crambo were as though they had not
been, and the poor animal was sold fora
few pounds to a cab-proprietor. Under
this new master it dragged on a few weeks
of weary and painful existence ; and then,
every spark of work and vital energy having
been knocked out of it, it was at last
mercifully consigned to the knacker. Sylvester
must have known that such would
be its miserable end when he parted with
Crambo — but that was a matter to which
he was profoundly indifferent. He had

made all he could out of it, and that was
all he cared for. What else is to be expected
of a man who ridicules the idea
of owing duty to any one or thing save
himself ?

AN UNEXPECTED PROPOSAL.

^^"^^ HE non-appearance of Imogen at
the Llantre skating picnic was
a sore disappointment to Sir
Charles Dover, who was head over ears in
love with her, and had fully resolved to
take that opportunity to ascertain whether
or no she would accept and return his
ardent affection. For the last few weeks
she had acted upon him as a sort of magnet,
from the vicinity of which he found it
impossible to tear himself away. Being a
good-looking, good-natured, young fellow,

with the further recommendation of owning
a fine estate, he was very generally
popular, and invitations flowed in upon
him freely from all quarters. Hitherto he
had been in the habit of accepting these
invitations without regard to locality, and
was perpetually rushing about from place
to place, north, south, east, and west ; but
of late his travels had suddenly become astonishingly
limited, and there had been a
marked coincidence between the attractiveness
which any house possessed in his
eyes, and its proximity to Llwyn-yr-Allt.
His amorous condition naturally made him
anxious to remain in that part of the world
where there was the best chance of meeting
the person for whom he sighed ; so,
with the wiliness of the serpent, he applied
himself sedulously to cultivate all his acquaintances
— even the most casual ones —
who resided anywhere within the reach of
Cwm-Eithin. They, poor deluded mortals !
attributing his attentions solely to their own

charms, and feeling greatly flattered at the
evident desire for their society entertained
by so popular a young man, vied with each
other in asking him to visit them. And
thus it came about that by staying at first
one house and then another in the neighbourhood,
he had never been altogether
out of reach of seeing Imogen since the
occasion of her first ball, and had met her
continually at whatever parties and social
gatherings had taken place.

This happy state of things had been
interrupted by her week's absence at Carton
house. Never in his life had he found
seven days such a dreary and interminable
period ; and before it was over he had
made up his mind that the existing state of
things was a mistake, that he would endure
his present suspense no longer, and that
he would propose to her and learn his fate
at the first possible opportunity. He had,
of course, taken care to be on the most
friendly terms with Ralph, and by that

young gentleman he had been informed
that there could be no doubt whatever as
to her being at the skating party. She
was to come home certainly on the day
before, and Ralph declared that she was
sure to be wild to go to the ice picnic — it
was just the sort of thing she loved, and
he would answer for her in this matter
as confidently as for himself.

The people with whom Sir Charles was
then staying were also going to Llantre,
and he had promised to accompany them ;
he could reckon absolutely on meeting her
there, and he promised himself that before
the day was over he would somehow find
an opening for what he wanted to say.
What her answer would be he could not
guess. He was too blindly in love to be
able to judge at all in what way she regarded
him. He knew that she always
seemed pleasant and sociable with him ;
and he thought that it was just possible she
might vouchsafe to accept him, even though

he felt himself to be quite unutterably inferior
to her great merits. But, at all events,
he was too impatient to wait any longer in
uncertainty, and would put the momentous
question without delay. For a whole week
he had been separated from her, and had
had to get on as best he could without
either seeing or hearing from her, and now
he was in a fever for their next meeting 1
Under these circumstances it may be imagined
how his spirits fell at the sight of
Ralph driving up to Llantre without her.

'Hullo, old fellow!' he exclaimed, as
Ralph descended from the dog-cart and
extracted his skates, boots, and other
etceteras. ' What have you done with
your sister ? You said she was coming.
Didn't she return home yesterday } '

Yes ; but she's not coming here today
for all that,' was the answer.

The lover took quick alarm.

'Nothing wrong, is there?' he asked
anxiously. ' She's quite well, I hope ? '

Oh yes, she's as right as a trivet.
Only what's kept her at home is that she's
got a fad about going to see some poor
people or other. Just as if she couldn't
have done that every bit as well some
other day ! I call it absurd nonsense of
her — particularly when I wanted her to
come here with me, and had taken the
trouble to think of everything beforehand,
and arrange with papa and all, so that
there might be no hitch. It's the mere
perversity of women, I suppose. She's
devoted to skating, and I'm positive she'd
have enjoyed herself here, no end.'

During the whole drive over, Ralph had
been feeling desirous of blowing off steam
on the subject of Imogen's unaccountable
behaviour, and he was now pleased to
have met with someone who was likely to
sympathise with his annoyance. But he
soon found that Sir Charles was by no
means to be relied upon to afford him this
satisfaction. The extremely spoony con-vol.

II. L

dillon in which the young baronet was,
made him inclined to see fresh cause of
admiration in whatever she did or did not
do, and it seemed to him that she had performed
an act of uncommon self-denial.
How noble and unselfish of her thus to
relinquish her own pleasure for the sake of
the poor, and how entirely worthy of love
and devotion she was ! It would be quite
wicked to let oneself be provoked at such
virtue merely because it interfered with
one's own selfish wishes, and it would be
far better to try and learn self-sacrifice
from her example.

These elevated sentiments made him
struggle valiantly against his natural irritation
at not seeing her, and he began to
take her part against her brother zealously.
But, unfortunately, the lower and more
earthly part of Sir Charles soon insisted
on asserting itself in spite of all the fine
feelings that tried to keep it down, and
presently his habitual good-temper seemed

to have deserted him almost entirely, and
whoever happened to speak to him found
him in a states unprecedented snappishness.

A good day for skating ? No ! he
thought it anything but that. There was
a deal too much wind for one thing, and
then besides that there was such a raw,
nasty feel in the air. Skating was always
a mistake, unless one had exactly the right
weather for it. Was he going to play
hockey or cricket ? Certainly not — it was
far too much trouble ; and also he thought
them very slow amusements on the ice.

For a little while he skated about with
other people ; but soon came to the conclusion
that that was dull. Then he tried
looking on — and found that both dull and
cold. He really did think that this was
about the most senseless way of spending
a day that had ever been invented.

As he was yawning, and wondering
discontentedly how ever he should get
through the time till evening, it suddenly

occurred to him that he was being victimised
very needlessly. He knew Imogen
was at home ; what was to hinder his
going straight away to Llwyn-yr-Allt to
ask that momentous question for the answer
to which he was so impatient ? Having
ridden over to Llantre from the house
where he was staying, he was independent
of the rest of his party as far as conveyance
was concerned, and would have no
difficulty on that score.

This idea considerably restored his serenity,
and having taken off his skates he
went to his hostess with an excuse about
a telegram he had only just remembered,
that must positively be despatched on that
day. He had ascertained that Cwm-Eithin
was the nearest telegraph station, and,
with her permission, he would at once
ride there, send off the telegram, and get
back to the house by dinner time.

Was there no help for it, and must they
really lose him for the day ? What a pity

that was, and how dreadfully he would be
missed. And what would he do about
lunch ? and would he not find it difficult
to know the way ?

To all this he replied with a laugh that
he had no fear of being lost whilst he had
a tongue in his head, and that he hoped
to be able to pick up sufficient food at
some shop in Cwm-Eithin to save him
from starvation. So as he was prepared
dauntlessly to encounter the perils conjured
up by his hostess's imagination,
there was no difficulty about having the
matter arranged as he wished, and in due
course of time he arrived at Llwyn-yr-Allt.

He had no intention of applying for
leave from the young lady's father to woo
her, before he had found out what her own
sentiments might be — for it seemed to him
that in affairs of this kind the principals
should always treat together directly from
the beginning. But he knew that it would
be considered highly incorrect if he were

supposed to have gone calling upon an
unmarried young lady ; so, having rung at
the bell, he inquired if Mr Rhys were at
home — reflecting meanwhile on how absurd
the social tyranny was which made
it thus necessary for him to ask for someone
whom he did not at all care about
seeing. Instead of for the person whom he
longed with his whole soul to have even a
glimpse of.

The master of the house had only just
returned after his two days' absence, and
had found an accumulation of letters awaiting
him ; consequently he was immersed
in correspondence when the servant informed
him that Sir Charles Dover was
in the drawing-room. Though Mr Rhys
was one of the most hospitable of men,
and had a decided liking for Sir Charles,
he wanted to stop and finish his letters for
the post in peace and comfort, did not at
that moment feel at all in the humour to
go and make conversation for company,

and wished he had taken the precaution
of saying that he would not be at home to
any caller that afternoon. However it
was too late for such regrets now, so he
reluctantly quitted his writing, and proceeded
to welcome his visitor with the
cordiality that belonged to his hospitable
instincts, even though all the time he was
inwardly hoping that the intruder would
not stay long.

The baronet, on the other hand, could
think of nothing except the object of his
visit, and turned his head at every sound
in hopes of beholding Imogen enter the
room. Both host and guest being thus
preoccupied, they were anything but lively
company for one another, and the conversation
languished in a deplorable fashion.
Long pauses occurred, during which Mr
Rhys wondered how much longer the
young man intended to stay, whilst the
latter, struck for the first time with the
possibility of Imogen's not appearing at

all, reflected with dismay on what was to be
done in that case. Somehow he had quite
forgotten that he might perhaps not see
her, even though she was in the house;
and he felt his calculations being completely-upset
by the turn affairs were taking.

The minutes dragged on, and no sign of
her coming was visible or audible ; and at
last in despair, he suddenly bethought him
of departing from his original plan, taking
her father into his confidence, and asking
for the parental consent for his wooing.

This proceeding effectually recalled Mr
Rhys' wandering thoughts from his letters,
roused his attention, and at once caused
the conversation to become interesting.
He cordially approved of the idea of Sir
Charles as a son-in-law, and not only gave
his consent readily, but — seeing the young
man's impatience to learn his fate — facilitated
matters by despatching a servant to
summon Imogen.

The young lady was at that moment in

her own sitting-room, absorbed in entomological
manuals, by whose aid she was
vainly striving to ascertain whether a moth
was rare, or only a variety of a very
common and variable species. The question
was a difficult one, and she had been
puzzling over stigmata, patches, spots,
dots, elbowed lines, sub terminal lines,
longitudinal and transverse markings, and
similar technicalities, till she was beginning
to get rather tired of the subject, and
would have certainly let it alone till she
should get Ralph to assist her, only that
that seemed like being beaten, and shirking
work meanly. Under these circumstances,
her father's summons was a very
welcome interruption, and she appeared
promptly in the drawing-room on hearing
that he wanted her there.

Her arrival was the signal for his departure.
Delighted to be released, and
free to go back to his letters, he jumped
up, telling her that he had some business

to attend to, and that he wanted her to
take his place in entertaining Sir Charles.
And then he bustled off to his study and
resumed his writing — pausing more than
once, however, to wonder how affairs
might be progressing in the drawing-room,
and what sort of an answer his
daughter would give to her suitor.

Now that Sir Charles had at last succeeded
in obtaining the interview for
which he had been in such a desperate
hurry, and now that the critical moment
was close at hand, he found himself in a
much greater state of trepidation than he
had expected. He wished to goodness
that he hadn't been driven to tell Mr
Rhys about it. Making a proposal was
always a nervous sort of business — not at
all the thing a man wanted to do in public.
Yet really it was very nearly as bad as
having an audience, to be tete-ct-tite
with a lady on purpose to propose to
her, knowing all the time that a third

person was perfectly aware of one's
intentions.

'I'm so sorry you should have been
disturbed on my account,' said he apologetically
; ' I hope you weren't doing anything
very particularly interesting ? '

Oh, it didn't matter at all,' she answered
graciously ; ' I was only naming a moth,
and there's not the least hurry about it.'

Nothing seems to be a most delightful
amusement,' he observed, thinking meanwhile
how best to turn the conversation
towards the point he wished ; ' I've a
great mind to take to it myself.'

Well, you'll find it awfully good fun.
It teaches one a lot about natural history
too, in one way and another, so it isn't all
wasted time — if you're one of those people
who want to be always improving themselves,
and all that sort of thing, you
know.'

Are you one of those people ? ' he
asked.

I don't exactly know. Sometimes I
think I am, and sometimes not. The fact
is, I believe one can't get on without some
object to live for, in the long run ; and
though collecting moths mayn't be anything
very exalted, yet it's better than
nothing at all events.'

Sir Charles' thoughts began to turn
vaguely towards the appropriateness of
suggesting a husband as a more satisfactory
object of existence than an entomological
collection. He did not as yet quite
see his way to clothing the idea neatly in
words ; but he believed it might be done
for all that.

Ah, but you think of something higher
than that, too,' said he, looking at her
with sincere admiration ; * you help the
poor, and whoever does that has found a
noble occupation. You see I know what
kept you from the skating to-day — Ralph
told me.'

Oh, did he tell you I was gone to see

Richard Richards?' she exclaimed eagerly.
Do you know people will persist in thinking
that he's the man who stole Ethel's
jewels, in spite of his having been acquitted.
He's very ill indeed, poor fellow, and his
wife declares it's all along of this affair. I
call it no end of a shame to go on suspecting
the man after the case has been fairly
tried, and the jury has said he's innocent.
Why have a trial at all if you aren't going
to accept the result ? Here's a man and
his family being nearly, if not quite, ruined
on account of a charge that has been pronounced
to be false. It seems to me it's
most awfully hard lines on him. Talk of
work to do in the world — if one could get
a poor fellow like that out of the mess hein
and set him straight in the eyes of everyone,
that would be work worth doing if
you like ! '

She found Sir Charles a much more
satisfactory person to talk to on this subject
than Mr Sylvester had been. For one

thing, It was his nature to abhor the Idea
of any kind of Injustice being done, and to
feel a chivalrous pity for, and desire to
defend, whoever was weak and oppressed ;
and for another thing, a cause advocated
by her was decidedly likely to find favour
In his eyes just then. Richards' case was
discussed at length, and she was delighted
at his strong expression of opinion as to
the hardship of suspecting an Innocent
person, and at his cordial agreement
as to the desirability of detecting the
culprit.

Yes,' observed she ; ' of course that
would be the real way to help Richards —
no one could say a word more against him
then. Ah ! If only I could lay hands on
that burglar, I should feel as If I hadn't
lived altogether to no purpose — as if I had
managed to do at least one bit of good In
the world before I die.'

Sir Charles wanted to get the conversation
away from Richards, and back in the

direction that he wished it to take, and
saw an opening for doing this here.

No doubt it would be a great pleasure
to think you had cleared an innocent man,'
said he ; ' but even if you don't manage todo
that, still it doesn't follow that there's
any necessity for you to live " altogether
to no purpose," as you call it.'

Do you think not ? ' she answered ;
well — yes — I suppose you're right. But
it must at all events be a great probability
that I should do so — such lots of people's
lives seem so absolutely good-for-nothing
that I don't know why I'm to expect mine
not to be the same. One seems to have
so much spare energy that there's nothing
to utilise ! A case like this would be just
the thing to turn it on upon, if only one
had a chance of profiting by the opening —
which I haven't, unluckily ! '

He was tired of beating about the bush,
and resolved to go straight to his point
without delay.

I can tell you of an even better opening,
if you like,' he said, boldly. ' I know of an
object for your energies who would afford
them ample scope, and whose life you have
the power to make perfectly happy. You
say you want work that shall do good in
the world, and make a real difference in it.
Well then ! will you let me show you such a
work lying ready to your hand ? '

Her thoughts were running entirely upon
Richard Richards, she had not noticed the
peculiar earnestness of Sir Charles' manner,
and she took it for granted that he wanted
to tell her of some poor person in distress,
on whose behalf he wished to enlist her
sympathies. Of his real meaning she had
not the slightest suspicion. She liked, and
got on capitally with him, just as she liked
and got on with any other pleasant companions.
But matrimony was an idea that
had never entered into her visions of a possible
future for herself ; and having always
felt perfectly certain that she should never

want to marry anyone, It did not occur to
her to suppose that he or any other person
was likely to be regarding her as a possible
wife. Therefore she answered frankly and
readily, —

*0h yes! Til be delighted to do whatever
I can, only I'm afraid you've overrated
my capacities, and that I shan't be
able to help as much as you think I shall.
Whom do you mean ? Is it any one near
here?'

Sir Charles got up, and came and stood
close in front of her.

I mean myself,' said he ; ' I am appealing
on my own behalf. I love you
with my whole heart, Imogen ; do you
think you could care about me enough
to marry me ? Will you keep to the
*' yes " that you uttered just this instant
before you knew whom I was asking
you to take pity on ? '

Not a word did he say to protest unchanging
love and fidelity, or to promise

VOL. II. M

to do all In his power to ensure her future
happiness ; his youthful devotion deemed
all that sort of thing too obviously included
in the mere fact of asking her to
be his wife to be worth alluding to separately.
And, indeed, no one could see him
and doubt that his whole soul was in the
words he had just said, as he stood there,
waiting for her answer with his handsome,
honest face expressing most genuinely
earnest love and anxiety.

Imogen looked up at him in utter astonishment
and dismay. ' Oh, I'm awfully
sorry ! ' she exclaimed ; ' but I really
can't do that ! I never dreamt that was
what you meant ! I shouldn't do at all well
as a wife, I know, and I shouldn't like it
either. I don't mean ever to marry ! '

Make an exception just for once in
my favour,* urged the young man ; ' then
I'd promise not to ask it of you again !
You'd do capitally as a wife, I'm sure, —
only let me judge for you about that !

And think how effectually you would then
be supplied with the object to live for
that you're anxious about ! No woman
need ever fear not being of use when
she's married, you know ! ' This was a
very unfortunate string for him to have
touched upon. The girl knew well enough
that the popular idea of woman's mission in
the world is that she should be married ;
but as it was an idea which she greatly
resented, she was sure to fire up immediately
on hearing it mentioned.

She can be just as much use when
she's single, to my mind,' retorted Imogen
rather sharply, her indignation at the idea
that offended her making her forget her
dismay at being proposed to, and her
concern for the poor suitor whom she
was rejecting ; ' that's one of Ralph's pet
notions that we women are all failures if
we don't marry ! / don't intend to, at all
events ; and yet I hope to fulfil my destiny
just as well as I could if I were a wife ! '

Sir Charles combated this assertion and
pleaded his cause vehemently, saying everything
he could think of to get her to change
her mind. But It was no use, for she was
immovable ; and at last he rode off to
Cwm-EIthln in a melancholy and dejected
frame of mind to despatch the telegram
which should make good his ostensible
reason for having deserted the skaters.
Its contents were the immediate result of
his rejection. It was addressed to his
own home and ran thus, — ' Expect me
home tomorrow.' Cwm-EIthln was no
longer so charming In his eyes now that
he had had that interview with Imogen
for which he had been In such a hurry.
But for all that, and though he perceived
that he had no chance with her for the
present, he nevertheless did not give up
all hope for the future, and determined
that he would try again by-and-by for
the prize that he coveted.

VEXAT I ONS.

HEN Mr Rhys and Ralph heard
of Imogen's refusal of Sir
Charles, and when furthermore
she communicated to them her unalterable
resolution never to marry at all, they felt
a good deal annoyed with her. Sir Charles
was an excellent match in a worldly point
of view ; and besides that, they both agreed
in considering him a thorough good fellow,
and one whom they would have welcomed
heartily into the family circle. As for this
notion of hers about never marrying, it
was simply ridiculous, preposterous nonsense,

and they could not Imagine what
had ever made her get it into her head.

Ralph had, of course, heard her say the
same thing before ; but he had not attached
any importance to it at the time,
thinking it was a mere whim, and not
fancying that she could possibly have been
in sober earnest in what she had said.
Being young and inexperienced, he would
not let the matter alone, but kept on harping
upon it continually, arguing about it,
and endeavouring to convince her that she
was foolish and unreasonable, until it became
quite a raw between them, and she
thought it was almost a relief when his
departure to read with a tutor for the
army prevented her from having the subject
perpetually dinned into her ears any
longer.

Mr Rhys, on the contrary, adopted a
very different line of treatment. He was
aware of the tendency of human nature to
cling with increased affection to a cause

that It has had to defend, and believed that
opposition was more Hkely than not to confirm
her in her Ideas. He perceived, too,
the absolute futility of attempting to reason
with a girl of seventeen, in the best of
health and spirits, who was quite convinced
that she should always prefer a life of single
blessedness. Therefore, he had the good
sense to conceal his annoyance, and to
appear to acquiesce entirely in her decision.
He merely told her that he was disappointed
at her not being able to fancy Sir
Charles, whom he regarded as a very excellent
and estimable young man, but that,
of course, if she was resolved not to marryat
all, then there was necessarily an end of
the matter, and it was no use saying anymore
about it. As he said this there was
a funny expression twitching about the
corners of his mouth which seemed to contradict
his apparent seriousness. But fortunately
she did not notice this look of
amusement, and without doubting that his

words had been spoken in literal earnest,
felt grateful to him for not desiring to
interfere with her plans as to her own
future life ; and meditated sagely upon the
silliness of young men in general, and
brothers in particular, and upon the vastly
superior wisdom possessed by such a person
as her father.

There was another matter, however, in
respect to which she and he had more
trouble in coming to a harmonious agreement.
Mr Rhys, regarding Richard
Richards with the utmost abhorrence as a
certain poacher and possible burglar, had
been quite horrified to hear that she had
entered the cottage of such a notorious
scoundrel, and had at first sternly forbidden
her to repeat the visit. But before long
her urgent entreaties to have the prohibition
removed, and the picture which she
drew of the man's illness and state of
destitution, made him relent.

His bark was generally worse than his

bite, and where sickness was concerned
he was especially soft-hearted ; so, after
a good deal of humming and hawing, he
informed her that, upon careful consideration
of the circumstances of the case, he
had changed his mind, and would make
no objection to her doing as she pleased
about going to the cottage.

Having received this permission, she
used to go almost daily to see poor
Richards with supplies of soup, milk, eggs,
arrowroot, and whatever other delicacies
he required ; thereby, to say the truth,
saving her father from what would otherwise
have been a weight upon his mind
only he did not choose to have that
fact known. It would have been intolerable
to his kindly nature to think
that there was some one sick and in
want of proper food and medicine, just
outside his own door, so to say ; and
yet it would have been a very hard
struggle to go in person to see to the

well-being of an individual so obnoxious
to him as was Richard Richards.

But this difficulty was wholly obviated
by Imogen's having taken upon herself to
look after the man, as then Mr Rhys
could feel easy in his mind as to the
invalid's having all that was necessary,
and yet was spared the necessity of
shocking his own prejudices as he would
have done by entering the house of such
a bad character in the part of a benefactor.
It was a trial to him to have to
allow any kind of communication to pass
between his own house and the cottage ;
but it would have been still worse to be
himself the medium of communication —
indeed he would probably in that case
have felt as though giving a direct and
reprehensible countenance to evil-doing.

It was not long before Imogen had the
satisfaction of seeing Richards begin to
mend, and his progress to recovery, though
slow, was steady. A little experience soon

taught her to hit off his tastes in catering
for him, and she rarely failed to tempt
his fanciful appetite with the various kinds
of food she brought with her. Ann's
favourite commendation when any especially
acceptable delicacy made its appearance
out of Imogen's basket, was, —
Indeed, and he shall enjoy himself now
just with this ! ' And this remark came
to be made with a frequency that was
highly gratifying.

Imogen was not, however, quite equally
successful in the endeavours which she
made occasionally to provide dainties for
Sarah Ann and the rest of Richards' offspring.
She supposed that her own taste
in such matters was an infallibly safe guide
to theirs ; and one day it came into her
head that it would be both pleasant and
amusing to see the astonishment and
delight with which their uneducated palates
would receive French bon-bons and
sweets of a recherches nature that must

of course be far superior in niceness to
anything they had ever tasted. But when
she tried the experiment, its result was
not what she had expected. In the matter
of * loshengias ' (by which term all sweets
of all kinds were designated), the children
were thoroughly conservative, and thought
the ones to which they were accustomed
were far superior to most of the strange
new flavours and substances to which she
introduced them. Chocolate, indeed, was
received with some favour ; but a rank
peppermint drop, or a bit of coarse hardbake,
were infinitely preferred in the cottage
to the most delicate morsel of nought,
or to camels, praises, abricotines, and
such like.

The greatest failure of all was a box
of sweets filled with liqueurs that Imogen
took with her one day, and which proved
so wholly un-allowable that no sense
of politeness could save them from being
spat out again immediately by the recipients.

The mother, who had not herself tasted
the sweets, was scandalised at this breach
of good manners, though in her secret
heart she entertained but little doubt of
its being justified by the nastiness of its
cause. Still, she felt it incumbent on her
to make a show of rebuking the proceeding,
if only to appease Imogen, who might
perhaps feel mortified at so unceremonious
a rejection of the gift that she had meant
to be a pleasant one.

Oh, fo' shame, Fairer Ann ! ' exclaimed
Mrs Richards, singling out the eldest, as
the natural victim to be made an example
of for the benefit of the rest ; 'Miss Rhys
'on't bring nothing nice for you no more,
and you so rude ! I am quite shamed for
you to do such a thing — yes, indeed. I
don't know where you do get it from, not
I — you never see such manners with me
whatever ! '

Here Imogen interposed. She did not
perceive that this displeasure was merely

assumed out of compliment to her, and felt
unhappy lest her present was to be the
means of getting the luckless Sarah Ann
into a scrape.

Oh, never mind,' said the young lady
good-naturedly ; ' don't scold her ; she
was quite right not to swallow . it if she
didn't like it. I'm fond of these sweets
myself, and I thought she'd have been
sure to like them too ; but, of course, it's
all a matter of taste. Have one, Ann,
and see what you think of it yourself.'

With these words, she put one of the
bon-bons into her own mouth to prove
the truth of what she had said, and offered
another of them to the woman.

The latter was completely taken aback.
After what had just passed, and the blowing
up she had given Sarah Ann, she
thought that for the edification both of
her visitor and children it was indispensable
for her to accept and eat the proffered
dainty. Yet in her heart of hearts she

longed to refuse it, for she had far more
confidence in the good taste of her offspring
than in that of Miss Rhys. And
what if the thing were to be so abominably
nasty as to force her to treat it as they had
done in spite of all her efforts ? She
wished heartily that she had been less
prompt in finding fault with them for
the sake of producing a good effect.
Taking the sugar plum into her hand,
she contemplated it with secret misgivings.

It do look beautiful, sure enough,' said
she, hypocritically ; ' I never was much of
a one for loshengias myself, but I daresay
as I shall enjoy this.'

The children were staring at her with
looks wherein she read clearly their doubt
of her accomplishing the enterprise before
her. She had gone too far to recede, and,
concentrating all the strength of her will
upon swallowing the sweet, and keeping
it down — however nauseous it might be —
she boldly put it into her mouth, and

gulped it down in grim silence. No expression
of either pleasure or pain crossed
her face, and as she did not volunteer any
opinion as to the merits of the morsel,
Imoeen did not like to ask what she
thought of it. But in spite of Ann's
heroism, Imogen had an uneasy sense of
having made a blunder, and she began to
realise more vividly than before that it was
a mistake to take it for granted everyone
else would like just the same things as she
did herself.

It must not be supposed all this time
that she had forgotten her original object
in going to the cottage. On the contrary,
she endeavoured to inculcate cleanliness
and tidiness whenever she saw what she
thought a good opportunity of doing so,
either directly or indirectly. But perhaps
she did not go the right way to work, or
perhaps the family may have been unteachable,
for certain it is that she was no more
successful in this line than she had been in

trying to educate the children's taste in
the matter of sweets. By the time that
Richards at last regained his health, the
cottage was not one whit less of a pig-sty
than it had been when first she had gone
there. Not one corner had been touched
by the soap and water wand with which she
had intended to perform miracles ; and the
giants she had purposed slaying were in
the most hearty and thriving condition
possible — which things were naturally somewhat
discouraging to a young person who
had set out full of reforming zeal, and with
no doubts as to her own ability to play the
part of good fairy which she had chosen
to undertake.

It happened, too, that just about that
time she had two or three other small
contrarieties to endure ; and as she was
not of a patient disposition, she easily
became depressed, and inclined to think
that the whole world had got out of joint,
and that nothing was going right any more.

VOL. II. N

For one thing, Ethel was unexpectedly
prevented from coming to Llwyn-yr-Allt
as she had promised to do ; and this was
an immense disappointment to Imogen,
who had looked forward greatly to her
cousin's visit. Another thing that annoyed
the girl was, that there was still no
clue to the mystery of the burglary. It
excited her ; she tried to find some person
in authority whom she could irritate into
infusing fresh vigour and energy into the
search after the criminal ; and she made
valiant attempts at persuading others to
accept the fact of Richards' innocence, as
unhesitatingly as she did herself. But it
was no use ; no trace had been found of
the jewels or of their robber, and she had
not managed to convert one single individual
to her way of thinking ; everyone
was too prejudiced, cold, hard-hearted,
lazy, and indifferent, as she told herself,
indignantly, when meditating over her
failure. A third thing that contributed to

her general state of dissatisfaction, was a
sense of having found even her beloved
entomology a little wanting of late.
Hitherto she had invariably had recourse
to it as an unfailing source of consolation
for Ralph's absence ; but somehow
she did not now find solitary nothing quite
as charming and all-satisfying an occupation
as of old.

The fact was, that she needed constant
employment of some kind or other, either
work or play, to absorb her restless and
superabundant energies. An intuitive
sense of that need caused her to make
schemes in order to supply it ; and when
those schemes declined to prosper, and
ended in collapse, it was Inevitable for a
person of her temperament to have an
attack of the blues and to feel disgusted
with things in general.

When in this frame of mind, and reflecting
discontentedly over the failure of her
efforts to find satisfactory occupation, it

was impossible not sometimes to remember
what Sir Charles had said about the
opportunities for usefulness possessed by
married women, and to feel qualms lest this
should really be true. It would be too
provoking if he and Ralph and the
majority of mankind were to be in the right
after all !

That made her think again of Sir
Charles' proposal, and of the absurdity of
her having said, yes, to it at first without
knowing what she was doing ; for she had
never dreamt of his meaning himself when
he had asked leave to show her what work
to do, and she had assented so readily.
Poor fellow ! He had looked very handsome
and manly as he pleaded for himself,
and it really was a very great pity that she
didn't care about him. But, there the fact
was, and couldn't be altered. She knew
quite well that she wasn't, and never
would be in love with him. Even had she
been one of those who believe woman's

destined sphere to be matrimonial, yet the
idea of him as a husband didn't seem anymore
peculiarly appropriate than that of
anyone else — Mr Owen, say, or — or — Mr
Sylvester.

Now-a-days she seemed always to be
meeting this last wherever she went, and
many an argument had they had together
over the thoughts and schemes that she
got excited about. Was he not, she asked
herself involuntarily, a more interesting
man than either of the other two, whose
names had just occurred to her ? Perhaps
so — she hardly knew ; but then she didn't
feel as If she ever really got to know him ;
any better, however much she saw of him,
she couldn't make him out, and at times he
would say things that made her downright
angry ; it seemed almost as if he and she
could hardly be belonging to the same
world sometimes, so utterly apart did what
he say seem from anything of which she
had any comprehension ! Well ! whatever

he was, luckily it didn't matter to her in
the least. It was a great comfort to have
thoroughly made up her mind never to
marry, for she certainly didn't know anyone
who would do for a husband. And
what a triumph it would be if some day or
other she should manage to bring Ralph
round to her way of thinking, and to make
him allow that an unmarried woman was
not necessarily a failure ! Meanwhile
though, it was very provoking to feel so
hipped, with Ralph away ; and Ethel not
coming to stay as she had promised ;
and none of her little plans turning out
as she wished. Why should she feel so
much duller this year than before } she
wondered.

A quite unexpected innovation now suddenly
took place in the routine of her life.
Her aunts, in their zeal for her interests,
urged strongly upon her father that he
would by no means be performing his
duty by his daughter if he did not bring

her out in London ; and, moved by these
representations, he announced to her one
day, that he meant to take a house somewhere
in Belgravia for the season.

He had never doubted but what Imogen
would approve of the idea, and was quite
astounded at the outburst of opposition
with which she first received it. Her old
childish wildness and hatred of forms,
ceremonies, and conventionalities had
been lying partially dormant since the
time of her coming out, but it blazed up
afresh at the idea that she was to be presented
at Court, and regularly taken out
in London. What was the good of it ?
She did very well as she was. She was
sure it would be odious to have to live
in any town, and was not London the
very tiniest of all towns ? Was not the
real meaning of taking her to London
that they wanted to try and make her
into a regular fashionable young lady —
just the sort of silly conventional creature

on whom she had always looked down
with the greatest contempt ?

At first, therefore, she made a fuss, and
opposed the idea of going to London vigorously
; but her resistance was less
whole-hearted than it would have been
formerly, and sprang rather from the recollection
of an old aversion than from the
actual living feeling itself; it was not so
much that she was conscious now of any
insuperable objection to what was proposed,
as that she was instinctively trying
to act in the manner that her un-come-out
self would have expected her to do. She
knew that in old days she had regarded
certain things as altogether abominable,
and she had not yet realised the possibility
of a change having taken place in herself,
and of there being a difference between
her present and her former selves which
would now make her judge the afore-mentioned
abominations more favourably than
of old. Whether she knew it or not, however,

none the less was the change there,
and certain to tell upon her. Consequently
her first violent outburst of opposition soon
became greatly modified ; the London
scheme assumed a more inviting aspect ;
and by the end of a week she was so far
reconciled to it, as to make no further
attempt to persuade her father to give
it up.

Mr Rhys then proceeded to take a
house in Lowndes Square, to which they
removed in the beginning of May. The
situation pleased Imogen particularly because
of its proximity to Belgrave Square,
where Mr Carton's town house was ; so
that she was able to see her cousin much
oftener than had been possible in the
country.

Riding in Rotten Row, too, theatres,
operas, places of amusement, and parties,
all proved far more delightful than Imogen
had expected. And by the time the Rhys'
had been established for a month in their

new abode, as she looked one day at the
plentiful supply of cards and notes lying in
the big china bowl which was the receptacle
for invitations, she confessed to
herself honestly that London was by no
means such a bad place as she had expected,
and that there really were some
redeeming points about it, after all.

LADY ELISe's FAILURE.

W^^^^ the time that the London season
fe ^v^ commenced, and the Cartons
g^ ' i:j^ ^ made their annual move to their
town house, Lady Else Bolyn had seen
enough of the difficulty of striking up that
solid, permanent friendship which she had
desired to establish with Ethel, to make
her anxious to meet with some equally
wealthy but more impressionable individual
to whom to attach herself. Her efforts to
establish herself as confidante and bosom
friend to the heiress had been baffled by
the curious mixture of openness and impenetrability,
simplicity and shrewdness

which characterised the latter ; and Lady
Ellse was beginning to recognise the fact
that she neither had, nor was ever Hkely
to have, any strong hold on Ethel's affections.
Outsiders who judged from the
length of Lady Ellse's visits at Carton
House, and the unwonted familiarity of
intercourse to which the heiress appeared
to have admitted her, might very likely
have pronounced a different opinion. But
Lady Elise was too much behind the scenes
to be thus deceived, and knew only too
well how one-sided were these marks of
apparent intimacy.

There is a French saying that In all
friendships, ^ il y a toujours I'm qiti baise,
et r autre qui tend le motte ; ' and however
unwilling she might be to own It, she
knew nevertheless In her secret heart, that
that saying was an accurate description of
the state of affairs existing between herself
and Ethel. The one made advances to
which the other never responded, though

she was too indolent to do anything to
check them. And that was not at all the
sort of thing to satisfy a young womanlike
Lady Elise, whose great ambition was
to establish herself somewhere comfortably
with a prospect of permanence.

To be merely supposed to be Ethel's
especial friend had, of course, some slight
advantage, as it ensured her receiving a
certain amount of deference from those
who thought it expedient to pay court to
the satellite in hopes of thereby securing
her good word with the heiress. But
Lady Elise aspired to something far more
substantially advantageous than that ; and
she had arrived at the conclusion that the
benefits to be derived from the Cartons
were insufficient to compensate for the
weariness of spirit which she had to
undergo in order to keep up her present
footing at their house.

The atmosphere at Carton was uncongenial
to her in many ways notwithstanding

its golden hue. There were radical
diversities of disposition between her and
Ethel of which she was aware, and which
prevented her from ever feeling at her ease
in Ethel's company.

Lady Elise was continually suppressing
her natural self lest it should clash against
that of the heiress and incur the latter's
serious disapproval, and this involved a
constant watchfulness lest some unguarded
word or action might betray the want of
harmony between them, which was very
irksome. When In society and amongst a
crowd of other people, it was not difficult
to keep the strong dissimilarity of their
natures from becoming apparent ; but it
was much harder to accomplish this In
long daily tete-a-tetes ; and Lady Elise
was tired of the self-restraint which it
imposed upon her. She was destitute of
Ethel's kindly, charitable instincts, and
though she accompanied the heiress In
cottage visits because it was evidently considered

the right thing to do at Carton,
and for the same reason joined readily in
discussions about the concerns of cottagers
and benevolent schemes for their welfare,
none the less was her interest in such
matters purely artificial. In reality they
bored her horribly.

Furthermore, she had a great weakness
for a flirtation, and was never really contented
without having some cavalier at her
beck and call. Ethel, on the contrary,
though by no means averse to the attentions
of the other sex when they chanced
to come in her way, had yet never found
her happiness to be sufficiently bound up
in male society for her to trouble herself
about it if it did not come to her naturally.
During the prolonged visits that Lady
Elise had paid at Carton House since last
summer, there had been various parties
assembled there for hunting, shooting,
lawn-tennis, and dancing purposes, and
all these social gatherings had been delightful

to her. But then, unfortunately
there had been other, and more frequent
periods, when the company in the house
had been confined to herself, Mr Carton,
Ethel, and Mrs Grey, the chaperon ; and
poor Lady Elsie had found these other
periods intolerably dull. There was not a
young man to talk to, and nothing to do
save to go pottering after stupid poor
people ! The want of amusement and of
some one to flirt with, had been almost
more than she could stand, and in her
desperation she had once even entertained
a wild idea of setting her cap at Mr Carton.
But his absorption in his copying machine
invention had rendered him wholly impervious
to any such attacks, and she had
speedily abandoned her project on perceiving
its absolute hopelessness.

The result, therefore, of her experience
of Carton House was that she had found
herself greatly bored there, and did not
see any sufficient prospect of advantage to

make her care about subjection herself to
a repetition of the boredom. Having
failed either to captivate the master of the
house or to set up an intimate and devoted
friendship with his niece, she could not
flatter herself on having done anything
towards securing that permanent foothold
which had been her object. And thus,
though far too prudent to give up the
Cartons and cut herself adrift from her
present anchoring ground till she saw a
fair chance of securing another elsewhere ;
she was when she commenced the London
season in a restless, unsettled condition,
and keeping a sharp look-out for some
more satisfactory individual or family to
whom to attach herself.

VOL. II.

THYATIRA Basis.

PON mature reflection, Sir
Charles Dover came to the
conclusion that he had been
too hasty In his proposal to Imogen ;
that he ought to have made his advances
with more circumspection, and
devoted more time and consideration to
the Important matter of trying to find out
the best way of recommending himself to
her before he spoke. And this conclusion
made him determined to act more prudently
before venturing on that second

attempt for her hand which he fully intended
to make.

After her refusal of him, he did not
again see her till after she had arrived
in London, and at their first meeting she
was somewhat confused, and evidently
inclined to be shy of him, and to take
alarm at any indication of an intention to
renew his suit. His behaviour, however,
was a model of discretion, and she speedily
recovered her equanimity in his presence.
Then, as she began to feel satisfied that he
must have abandoned his former absurd
ideas of wishing her to be his wife, her
confidence was soon restored, and she fell
back naturally into the old don comrade
way of regarding him. He perceived this
with much satisfaction, and resolved to be
careful that he did not a second time disturb
their good understanding prematurely.
Still, he thought that he would like to
manage in some way to produce in her
mind a pleasurable association with himself

which should be a little different from
that relating to other people. It seemed
to him that if he could succeed in this,
he could not fail thereby to advance his
interests, and that the best way to attain
tills object would be hit upon something
to give her which she would be certain to
like, and which should be different from any
ordinary gifts she was likely to receive.
The difficulty was, however, to settle what
the offering was to be, and for a while he
puzzled himself vainly to find an answer to
this question. Thing after thing occurred
to him only to be rejected as too commonplace,
or in some other way unsuitable.
But at last he cried Eureka ! He believed
he had found the very idea he wanted, and
proceeded to act upon it without delay.

One day, not long afterwards, when
Imogen returned from riding in the park
with her father, she found awaiting her a
small, square parcel, registered and done
up very carefully, that had just arrived by

post. She took it up eagerly, and began
to break the multifarious seals by which
it was secured, saying joyfully as she did
so, —

Oh, papa ! what can this be ? Doesn't
it look exactly like a jewel-case ? How
jolly if anyone's sent me something nice !
It must be something very precious at
animate, to be so carefully packed up.
Do look ! here's cotton wool under the
outside paper — and more paper again —
and string — dear, dear ! What a lot to
undo ! Who ever can it come from ? '

Mr Rhys, also, felt his curiosity aroused
upon this point. She had not thought
of noticing the post-mark, and had flung
the outer covering carelessly on the floor,
so he picked it up and inspected it.
Thence he quickly derived the information
he wanted ; he made no comment
upon his discovery, however, but looked
on silently whilst she continued to unpack
the interesting parcel. After the cotton

wool and one or two paper wrappings
had been removed, a small wooden box
with string tied round it was brought to
light. She began untiring the twine with
impatient fingers, remarking, —

'Isn't a regular jewel case, I see ; but
of course whatever's inside must be uncommonly
choice to be done up like this.
Bother these knots ! Am I never going
to get to an end of them ? Hooray !
there goes the last one. Now we shall
see what the treasure is ! '

Full of pleasant anticipations (for she
had a great weakness for jewellery of
all kinds) she drew back the lid. But
when her eyes fell upon what was beneath
it she uttered an exclamation of
mortified and indignant disgust.

What a horrid sell ! ' she cried. * Why,
after all this excitement here's nothing
but a couple of Thyatira Batis I '

And so saying she turned the box so
as to exhibit two prettily-marked moths,

dead and reposing side by side on a bit
of cardboard to which they had been
pinned.

There was an amused smile on her
father's face as he examined the insects
which she held out towards him.

I can't see why you should be so put
out about them, my dear,' he observed.
You're always wanting moths, and I'm
sure these are very handsome ones. Of
course no one would expect most people
to care for such things ; but they're all in
your line, you know.'

All in my line to want Thyatira Batis,
indeed ! ' she returned contemptuously.
Why, it's one of the commonest moths
that there is — a thing that everyone gets
directly he begins to have a collection at
all ! No one in their senses could suppose
that I haven't already got as many
specimens as I want of such a moth as
that. And just look how clumsily these
are set ! It certainly wasn't anyone that

knew much about nothing matters who
sent them. I do wonder what stupid
person it can have been ! '

Here's the address and post-mark on
this,' said Mr Rhys, handing her the piece
of paper which he had picked up ; ' will
they give you any clue ? '

So they may,' she answered, taking
the envelope and beginning to scrutinise
it. * I'd forgotten that — it's lucky you
thought of it ; I must say I should like to
spot the duffer who's been so silly. The
handwriting's no help, though ; I don't
recognise it at all. Let's try the postmark.
Quendle — Quendle-^- I seem to
know the name somehow, but I can't for
the life of me recollect where I've heard it.'

Mr Rhys watched her. He remembered
very well who lived at Quendle,
but he did not tell her, as he was curious
to see whether she would manage to solve
the puzzle for herself, and how she would
take it when she should have done so.

Do you think it's the name of a place
where some one you know lives ? ' he
suggested, by way of assisting her efforts
at recollection.

Quendle,' she repeated again doubtfully
; ' yes — perhaps it may be.' Then
suddenly she flushed crimson as she remembered
who lived there, and guessed
who the sender of the moths was sure to
be. * To be sure ! that's where Sir Charles
Dover comes from — I suppose it was he
who sent them. Well ! I do think he
needn't have imagined that I should care
for such rubbish as these ! '

So sayings and emphasising her words
so as to express a withering degree of
scorn, she hastily gathered up the box
and its wrappings, and marched out of
the room to take off her riding-habit.
Her father looked after her with a quiet
chuckle of enjoyment of what had just
happened, and speculated secretly as to
whether or not the signs which he had

seen augured favourably for Sir Charles'
future chances. Mr Rhys honestly desired
nothing but her happiness, and was
prepared to welcome with open arms any
eligible son-in-law whom she might present
to him — or none at all, if she chose
eventually so to settle the matter. But
though he would in nowise interfere with
her choice, he certainly had a partiality
for the good - looking, good - tempered
young baronet, and would have preferred
him in the capacity of Imogen's husband
to any other young man of his acquaintance.
He would have given a good deal
to know whether she was still as resolutely
determined never to marry as she had
been two or three months ago ; and
also whether these Thyatira Batis would
prove an additional stumbling-block in Sir
Charles' path, or the reverse. Certainly
it was an unfortunate circumstance that
the moths which he, In his ignorance,
had pitched upon to send her, should

have happened to be such common
ones. If only they had been great
rarities, who could tell how they might
not have softened her heart towards the
sender !

DOES SHE LIKE HIM?

IR CHARLES was, as may be
supposed, very anxious to learn
whether his moths had arrived
safely, and how they had been received ;
but on each subsequent occasion of meeting
Imogen, he failed to screw up his
courage to the pitch requisite to enable
him to allude to the subject. Knowing,
however, that her brother was soon coming
to London for a couple of days' holiday,
he resolved to make him the medium
through whom to discover whether the
entomological offering had been acceptable,

and to postpone, therefore, for a few-days
the gratification of his curiosity.

The two young men were excellent
friends, and Sir Charles had already confided
to Ralph his intention of making
another attempt for Imogen's hand. Ralph
cordially approved of the design ; though
to say the truth it seemed to him a somewhat
undignified eagerness about a trivial
matter, and caused his friend to sink justa
tiny degree down in his esteem. The
eighteen-year-old philosopher was inclined
to think that no woman could possibly be
worth asking more than once, and that one
would do very nearly as well as another asa
wife. Consequently he beheld with a
delightful sense of superiority the spectacle
of the older man who was so foolish
as to imagine that his happiness was
dependent upon securing the affections of
this one particular girl — a mere everyday
girl, too, who had no hidden romance,
mystery, or anything of that sort to make

her attractive. Though Ralph was extremely
fond of his sister, none the less
did he consider her to be slightly inferior
to himself, who had the advantage of sex
and of a year's seniority, and was on both
those accounts clearly entitled to patronise
her. And as besides this, he had known
her all his life, and was convinced that he
knew everything that there was to know
about her, he could by no means comprehend
how she should appear to anyone
else in a more romantic, and 
light.

The morning after Ralph came to town,
his father and sister went to ride in Rotten
Row as usual, but he could not accompany
them because there was not a third saddle-horse
to mount him on. Therefore he
betook himself to the Park on foot, and
lounged about under the trees, watching
the riders. In this occupation he was
presently joined by Sir Charles, who
happened also on that day to be amongst

the pedestrians. He was pleased to see
Ralph again, but was otherwise in anything
but a happy frame of mind, and
they had not been together long before
he made apparent what was troubling
him.

I can't think what your sister can see
in that fellow,' he ejaculated discontentedly,
as the Rhys' rode past them in company
with Mr Sylvester, who was talking eagerly
to Imogen.

Sylvester, do you mean ? ' asked Ralph.
The other nodded assent.

I don't expect she sees anything particular
in him,' answered Ralph ; * what
makes you think so ? '

Because he's always about with her,
and she don't seem to want to get rid of
him,' grumbled the baronet.

"" Always ? ' queried his companion.
Come now ! are you sure of that ?

Well, pretty nearly always, at any rate.
Look at him sticking to her and your

father to-day — it's been just the same
other days, too ! And then he was at the
opera with them one night, and at the
theatre another ; and she dances with
him ever so often at balls

Come, that isn't quite always, after all,'
returned Ralph ; ' and I don't see why a
man shouldn't speak to her when he
happens to meet her if they get on together.
Do you know him at all ? '

Never spoke to him in my life, and
don't want to — that's more ! ' replied Sir
Charles, moodily, ' I can tell by his face
he's the sort of fellow I should abominate.'

Nonsense ! he's not at all bad-looking,
only you're jealous of him. I don't care
about him very particularly one way or
other myself, but he can be amusing
enough when he chooses, I can tell you.
You should just hear him and Imogen goat
it hammer and tongs sometimes when
they get into an argument — she furiously
in earnest generally, and he quite cool,

and saying such queer things. You bethe's
a clever chap. 'Isn't for everyone's
benefit that he chooses to make himself
pleasant, though ; no doubt that makes
him all the more taking to whomsoever
he does honour with his full powers of
agreeablllty.'

I wonder If he cares for nothings said
Sir Charles, * amongst his other attractions.
By-the-bye, I sent her a couple of moths
the other day. Do you know if she got
them all right ? *

At this speech Ralph suddenly burst out
laughing, to the astonishment of his companion,
who could not conceive what there
was ludicrous in what he had said.

Stop a bit — don't look so surprised, old
fellow ; I'll tell you In a minute,' exclaimed
Ralph, struggling to regain his gravity.
They came all right enough, but — oh,
dear! I can't help laughing as I think
of it — what on earth induced you to send
her a couple of Thyatira Batis ? '

VOL. II. p

They were Thyatira Batis or Thyatira
anything else for all I knew about them.
I took no end of trouble about setting them
and packing them up and all, because they
were so uncommonly pretty that I thought
she would like to have them. Didn't
she 1 '

Like to have them ! ' repeated Ralph
contemptuously. ' Who's going to care
about having beasts like that, which areas
common as mud ? I wish I'd been
there to see their arrival, and her disgust !
However, she told me what had happened,
and then we did have a good laugh over it
together. It was such a splendid sell for
her ! First the arrival of the package by
post, all done up and registered as if it had
been a jewel-case — then her opening it,
thinking she was going to discover something
very fetching inside — then the awful
come down of finding nothing but two
specimens of Thyatira Batis after all !
She couldn't think who'd sent them at

first, but afterwards guessed from the postmark.
Thyatira Salis indeed ! Why,
they're a perfect pest at sugars some
nights ! '

Sir Charles looked slightly crestfallen.

How was I to know that ? ' asked he.
'Td never seen the brutes before, at any
rate.'

Very likely not,' answered the other,
with an air of superior wisdom, ' and that
just shows the foolishness of meddling
with things about which you know nothing:
whatever. Precious little chance of
doing yourself much good with anyone
that way ! There goes Lady Elise Bolyn.
Who's that perky-looking fellow talking to
her?'

'That.-^ Oh, its Guelph Croesus-Hogg.
Son of the man who was nobody till he
made such a pot of money by contracts.'

Is it ? Well, I don't think much of
Guelph's appearance, at all events. Has
he got St Vitus' dance, I wonder ? Do

look how the chap grins and ogles, and
mouths his words — giving his poor eyes
and lips double the work they need have.
And even when he's standing in one place
and not talking he can't be still, but must
needs keep poking his cane into the gravel,
fidgeting his feet about, and playing with
his watch-chain and eyeglass all the time.
He looks as if he wanted to be thought
fifty times wider awake than the rest of
creation — don't you think so ? '

Ah — yes — ' replied Sir Charles abstractedly,
and evidently without taking
the faintest interest in what had been
said.

Ralph did not notice this inattention,
and continued to criticise the unconscious
Guelph Croesus Hogg.

Why, the fellow don't look much older
than me,' said Ralph ; * yet there he is
having no end of flirtation with Lady
Elise, who must be twenty-eight if shea
day ! Look at 'em walking up and

down together, and looking as pleased as
Punch with one another ! There ! now
they've gone and got two chairs and sat
themselves down side by side. And I do
declare he sitting almost in her pocket,
and grinning like a Cheshire cat, and she's
looking as if that was precisely the thing
she most enjoyed. I say ! isn't it just
absurd .-^ '

Ah — yes,' replied Sir Charles, as absently
as before.

Ralph looked round at him, and perceived
that his head was turned in the
direction where Imogen had last disappeared,
which was diametrically opposite
to where Lady Elise and her juvenile
admirer had established themselves. The
fact was that the poor baronet was straining
his eyes in hopes of seeing his ladylove
re-appear without the obnoxious
Sylvester being at her side, and did not
exactly know what Ralph had been talking
about, and had only ejaculated * ah — yes ! '

because aware that some kind of remark
was being expected of him.

His companion watched him for a
minute or two with a mixture of amusement
and pity ; then, guessing rightly that
there was just then only one subject in
which it would be possible to excite his
interest, Ralph gave up attempting to
force the conversation into other channels,
and returned to what he knew to be the
congenial theme.

I say ! ' he said, * here's a new idea for
you, that's just occurred to me as I saw
Ethel Carton drive past. Why don't you
go and confide in her, and get her to give
you a lift with Imogen ? I daresay she
could, for Imogen thinks an awful lot of
her, I know — or used to last winter, at
any rate.*

Sir Charles pricked up his ears hopefully
at the beginning of this speech, but the
conclusion disappointed him. Ethel was
in his eyes far too formidable a personage

for him to venture upon confiding his love
affairs to her. He knew he should never
muster up courage to do it, and marvelled
how Ralph could have thought such hardihood
possible. Still he thought it would
look foolish to make known the degree of
awe with which she had inspired him, so
he did not at first put forward his real
reason for objecting to the plan suggested.

Oh no ! ' he replied, shaking his head,
I don't the least think that would be
any use.'

Don't you be too sure of that ! ' persisted
Ralph, who took credit to himself
for the new idea he had struck out, and
thought it ought to be at once adopted.
It might be, you know, and, at any rate,
you can't tell till you try. / believe it
would be a first-rate spec ! '

But Sir Charles did not seem to be
convinced.

You may be pretty sure,' he said, ' that
Miss Carton would not thank me for

troubling her about my concerns, and I
don't see what right I have to do it either.'

Oh, bless you, Ethel wouldn't mind
one pin; shouldn't wonder that she wouldn't
rather like it than not.'

You forget that she is not my cousin,
though, and that I only know her very
slightly.'

What a one you are to make difficulties
! One would think you were afraid
she'd eat you ! '

To tell you the honest truth, I think I
am,' said Sir Charles, laughing, as he saw
that his excuses were unavailing.

Ralph whistled.

You don't say so,' he exclaimed, again
feeling himself immensely superior to the
older man. ' Well, / ain't afraid of any
woman, and don't mean to be either. A
man should never knock under to any
of them like that, to my mind. And
afraid of Ethel, too, of all people in the
world ! She's a thorough good sort when

you know her, and nothing whatever
alarming about her, I can tell you. Well,
if you won't take my advice, you won't ;
but it's the best I can give you, and you
know I'm all for you as my brother-in-law,
if only it could be fixed.'

Yes, yes ; I know you're no end of a
trump, and will do all you can for me,'
returned Sir Charles gratefully ; ' and look
here, you can do one thing if you will, I
think. You might put a spoke in Sylvester's
wheel somehow for me, oughtn't
you ? I don't want you to tell lies, or do
anything unfair, of course. But tell her to
be careful not to get entangled with anyone
before she knows what she's about ;
or tell her that he's a snob ; or ask her
why she lets him be always dangling after
her ; or — or say whatever you think best
that would make her snub him, you know.'

It was now Ralph's turn to object to
what was proposed. When on a previous
occasion he had tried his hand at advising

his sister in matrimonial affairs, he had
been nettled at the ill-success of his efforts.
The worst part had been too, that when
he had tried to produce an impression
upon her by assuming airs of incipient
manhood (as he thought himself fully-justified
in doing at his age, and with
some hairs of quite an inch long beginning
already to shade the corners of his mouth),
she had detected the intention at once,
and laughed at it in a way that was most
unpleasant to his youthful dignity. He
was aware that she had had the best of
the encounter, and did not feel at all inclined
to provoke another battle on the
same subject. Still he did not want to
confess this after the boast he had just
uttered about never being afraid of any
woman, so he took refuge in excuses.

It was a ticklish thing to speak to a
girl about this kind of matter. He believed
Sir Charles was mistaken in thinking
there was any inclination to a spoon

between her and Sylvester. Needless,
fussy interference was simply ridiculous; the
chances were it would only do more harm
than good by setting her to think about
what she wouldn't otherwise have thought
of at all. Finally, being pressed further
and driven into a corner, he declared,
with some show of indignation, that, of
course, he should speak to her at any time
if he saw signs of her behaving indiscreetly,
and getting into a scrape ; but
that at the present moment he could see
no reasonable cause for alarm. As he
appeared to be getting touchy, Sir Charles
thought it best to be content with this
declaration, and to say no more on the
subject just then. He had the felicity of
seeing Imogen ride past once without any
companion save her father ; and then the
popular hour for lunch having arrived, they
all followed the example of the rest of the
world, and quitted the Row in search of
that meal.

When lunch was over Imogen wrote a
few notes that required answers, and then
went across to Belgrave Square to see her
cousin, whom she found at home.

I saw you this morning In the distance,'
said Ethel after greeting her; 'and I couldn't
make out who you were riding with besides
your father. Was it anyone I know V

No, you've never met him ; it was Mr
Sylvester,' answered Imogen, and her
cheeks flushed a little consciously as she
mentioned his name. ' I didn't see you
sitting under the trees in the Victoria with
Mrs Grey, till just after we'd turned our
horses' heads the other way. I asked him
if he knew you, and he said he'd never had
the honour of an introduction, so I offered
to introduce him to you as soon as we got
near the trees again. He would have
liked It very much, only then unluckily before
we came back to that end of the Row,
he saw some one whom he wanted to speak
to about business, he said ; he rode off.

saying he should rejoin us directly ; but I
expect he must have got kept, as we didn't
see anything more of him afterwards.'

Ethel had heard her cousin's name
coupled once or twice — though only
vaguely and speculatively — with that of
Sylvester, and was curious as to whether
or not the rumour was likely to prove true.
Imogen's slight blush in speaking of him
had not escaped her notice, and now that
he happened to have been mentioned thus
accidentally, she thought she would pursue
the subject, and try and discover some indication
of Imogen's opinion of him.

Never mind,' said Ethel, carelessly ;
you must introduce him to me at some
other time. I shall be very pleased to
make his acquaintance since he is a friend
of yours. Tell me what he's like, and
whether you think he and I shall get on
together? Ah! you can't now, though,'
she continued, as a violent peal at the bell
of the front door announced a visitor ; ' for

there's some one come to call — I wonder
who it is.'

Imogen was sitting by the window, and
peeped out cautiously from behind a corner
of the blind.

Tremendous swell turn-out whoever
it may be,' she observed. ' Coachman
and two flunkeys in powder and calves.
Horses ; harness ; carriage ; liveries ; coats-farms
; crests and all the rest of it in the
highest style of magnificence. Must be the
Lady Mayoress at least, I should think !
Only one person I know in the carriage, and
that's Lady Elise Bolyn. Ah — she's getting
out, and the others have driven off. What
a bore ! Just when I thought I was going
to have you all to myself ! She's always
with you, I do believe ; and no one else hasa
chance of a quiet chat with you, ever ! '

Ethel looked amused.

I haven't seen quite so much of her just
lately,' she replied. ' She's been spending a
good deal of her time with some new acquaintances

that she seems to be making
great friends with — the Croesus Hoggs/

Imogen's face on hearing this was a
study of contemptuous astonishment. In
her dealings with people of the labouring
classes, she was free from the smallest
tinge of pride, and never for an instant
dreamt of considering herself to be really
their superior, simply because she chanced
to have been born in a higher rank of life.
But she was by no means equally democratic
in her sentiments recrardinor those who dido

o

not naturally belong to the class of what
she deemed ladies and gentlemen, and yet
who assumed to do so merely on the
strength of having quantities of money.

Towards such people she was greatly
inclined to be fine and exclusive in her
behaviour. She considered them as being
pretentious, and pretentiousness was a
thing which she abominated. What was
mere money, that it should be supposed
able to elevate a person above his own

rank of life, and make him equal to those
who were his superiors by birth ? It
gave her quite a shock to find that an
earl's daughter, like Lady Elise, should be
less fastidious than herself in such matters ;
and it seemed to her still more surprising
and outrageous for anyone to be disposed
to exchange the society of Ethel Carton,
for that of mere plebeian nouveaux-riches
such as these Croesus Hogs.

Those people ! ' exclaimed Imogen, ina
tone of supreme disdain. ' What on
earth can make her take to them } Everyone
says they are awfully vulgar snobs !
I should have thought she would have had
better taste.'

Before Ethel could reply, the door was
thrown open by a servant announcing
Lady Elise Bolyn ; and the entrance of
the lady in question put an end to the
conversation for the time being.

END OF VOL. II.

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

wimmm'i'''''itmmmmmmmmmBBm

mim

13^:

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

82.3
0588>b

M.3

t/ttmtiimtmtmtmti^

^ ^^ gg

OR,

UNCONSCIOUS INFLUENCE.

BY

E. A. DI LLWYN,

AUTHOR OF 'the REBECCA RIOTER ' AND ' CHLOE Ruelle.'

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. III.

Tinsel BROTHERS,

CATHERINE STREET, STRAND,

LONDON.

1883.

\^All Rights re served. 1

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

THE CRCESUS-HOGGS,

CHAPTER II.

ETHEL'S WHIM,

CHAPTER III.

SYLVESTER AND LOVE,

CHAPTER IV
PICNICKING,

CHAPTER V.

A MAD DOG,

CHAPTER VI.

THE THEATRICALS,

PACK
I











CHAPTER VII.

RECOGNITION,

PAGE
lOI

CHAPTER VIII.

ETHEL AND SYLVESTER, .

CHAPTER IX.

AMONGST FLAMES, .

CHAPTER X.

AN UNGRACIOUS TASK,

CHAPTER XI.

A SENSITIVE CONSCIENCE,

CHAPTER XII.

HOW RALPH WILL CROW OVER ME !

12:





20.S



OR,

UNCONSCIOUS INFLUENCE.

CHAPTER L

THE CRCESUS-HOGGS.

Very momentous and unexpected
were the results following indirectly

from that call of Lady
Elise's in Belgrave Square, which hindered
the attempt Ethel was just about to make
to sound her cousin upon the subject of
Mr Sylvester. But before setting forth
the object of Lady Elise's visit, it is necesse

III. A

say to introduce the reader to her new
friends, the millionaire Croesus Hogs.

The Croesus-Hogg family was five in
number, and consisted of the father and
mother ; two daughters, named respectively
Guinevere and Victoria ; and one son,
named Guelph. Whatever charges might
be brought against these people, over-refinement
was certainly never likely to be
one of them, as their appearance and
manners would effectually give it the lie.
Indeed, some persons thought that their
standard of breeding was hardly near
enough to that which generally prevails
amongst ladies and gentlemen to allow of
their being admitted to the society which
esteems itself to belong to the upper ten.
But then it was only a narrow-minded and
prejudiced minority who took that view,
and in the eyes of the majority of the
world, the enormous wealth possessed by
the Croesus-hogs was sufficient to atone,
almost, if not altogether, for any deficiencies



lies of birth or breeding on their part.
Never was seen such an establishment as
theirs ; such troops of gorgeously apparelled
servants ; such sumptuous liveries ; such
magnificent horses and carriages ; such
splendid furniture ; such superb flowers ;
such valuable plate ; such pictures ; such
statues ; in short, such a lavish display of
wealth in every direction ! It was notorious
throughout all London that no visitor of any
kind — be he tradesman, servant, messenger,
or individual, however insignificant — could
spend a minute within the Croesus Hogg
doors without discovering that luxury pervaded
every corner of the house, and that
something gratifying to the five senses of
humanity was to be met with at every turn.
And how enviable must be the condition
of people whose lives were passed wholly
amongst such delights, and who could enjoy
them to the very fullest extent.

Whatever good thing money could buy,
that the Croesus Hoggs would have, cost

what it might ; and throughout their establishment
they would tolerate nothing less
than as near an approach to perfection as
it was possible to have. For instance, the
artist who presided in the kitchen was a
real genius, a cook such as is but rarely to
be met with in this fallen world of ours.
He was a Frenchman, rejoicing in the
name of Gaston Leblanc, an enthusiast
for his profession, which he regarded with
a chivalrous love and veneration as being
the only thing in the world deserving of
unswerving constancy. Religion, morality,
women, amusements — all these did very
well to take up or leave alone for a while,
according to the fancy of the moment. But
not so his art ; that possessed his heart too
entirely for him to be guilty of fickleness
towards it for so much as a moment ; and
to do anything that could bring it into disrepute
seemed to him a heinous crime.
He maintained that, inasmuch as every
kind of food had its own natural and pecu-

':><b

liar flavour, therefore those who destroyed
that flavour — whether by over - saucing-,
careless cooking, unskilful mixing, or any
other way — were little short of murderers,
in that they deprived the food of the individuality
which constituted it's life, and
whereby it was to be distinguished from
all other foods.

The well-known savin Qf to the effect
that God sends meat and the devil sends
cooks, was one day rashly alluded to in his
hearing. His horror and indignation at
the idea of the mere existence of such a
heresy were so great that he nearly had
a fit. When he had somewhat recovered
from the first shock, he began seriously to
consider the propriety of challenging to
mortal combat the daring person who had
been so wanting in delicacy of feeling as to
give utterance to the fearful slander in his
presence. The more he thought about it,
the more convinced he felt that it was incumbent
on him to take vengeance on

some one or other ; and that since the
unknown author was unattainable, the
only thing to be done was to chastise
whoever had ventured to repeat the calumny.
But then, fortunately, it all of a
sudden struck him that the miserable English
language had but one word to express
cooks of either sex. That made him seethe
matter in an altogether different light.
The offensive saying had doubtless been
aimed only at female cooks — in which
case he had not a word to say against
it, and could certainly not resent it asa
personal insult. And as on reflection
this appeared to him to be evidently the
correct view to take, his ruffled dignity
presently subsided, and he recovered his
wonted serenity.

Be it said to his praise that he was
every bit as particular over the cooking of
a mutton chop as over that of a truffled ortolan
; and would no more allow a boiled
potato to issue from his kitchen in an ill-prepared

condition than he would the most
artistic and showy ent7'de that the heart of
cook ever devised. Of course, the fact of
such a man being chef anywhere was a
sufficient guarantee that in that house
everything eatable would be first-rate of
its kind, and so the Croesus Hoggs had
engaged him at a tremendously high
salary. And in every other department
of their household there prevailed the
same rule of conduct, viz., that no
kind of excellence was to be wanting if
it was procurable by money.

Now it has been already mentioned that
the relations existing between Ethel and
Lady Elise Bolyn were by no means to
the liking of the latter. Firstly, because
she was tired of keeping herself continually
in check lest the worldly, selfish, hard,
petty part of her disposition should become
too apparent, and shock the more
noble nature of the heiress. Secondly,
because she had no love for the occupations

and amusements of country life
unless they afforded plentiful opportunities
for flirtation, and therefore considered
Carton House a dreadfully dull place to
stay honor at, and did not care about going
back there. And thirdly, because she
perceived the great difficulty of ever surrounding
Ethel with tendrils of friendship
strong and holding enough to be safe to rely
on. Altogether, therefore, she had arrived
at the conclusion that Ethel was a bad
speculation ; and that though she would
be unwise to relinquish the intimacy to
which she had already advanced before
she should have found some more promising
one to substitute for it, yet that it
behoved her to search about for some
other rich house at which to become a
tame cat — some person to whom she could
attach herself whose pecuniary advantages
should be equal to those of Ethel, and who
should be In other ways more satisfactory.
Under these circumstances the 

presented themselves to her mind
as being not unworthy of attention, and
she easily induced her mother to make
their acquaintance. The more she saw of
them, the more plainly did she perceive,
that here was the very opening that she
had been desiring. That they were by no
means all that could be wished in regard
of birth and behaviour, was no doubt a
drawback. But experience had taught
her, long ago, the vanity of expecting to
have everything exactly to one's mind ;
and it was quite evident that if she chose
to consort with these people, she would be
welcomed with effusion, and neither pains
nor money would be spared in trying to
please her. Was it not wiser to be a little
thick-skinned, and to make friends with
Guinevere and Victoria Croesus - Hogg,
than to continue to attach herself to a
person like Ethel ? The latter had no
doubt the recommendation of being a lady;
but then how wearisome it was to feel

always obliged to be on one's P's and O's,
and to take trouble about making oneself
agreeable lest one should lose innumerable
luxuries and enjoyments which could only
be reached by means of intimacy with
their mistress's ! With the Croesus Hoggs,
on the contrary, Lady Elise need not give
herself the very slightest trouble in order
to be acceptable. Having no ancestors,
they naturally adored the peerage, and
ardently desired the privilege of associating
with any of its members. Consequently
they were every whit as
anxious to have the favour of her company,
as she could be to bestow it upon
them. In their opinion, whatever she
said or did was necessarily charming.
Everything belonging to them was entirely
at her service, and nothing could
possibly be considered too good for her.
They thought her affable, graceful, fascinating,
the most enchanting of human
beings, and were quite enraptured to find

themselves gliding into terms of familiarity
with an earl's daughter.

At a very early stage of the acquaintance,
Guinevere Croesus Hogg had one
day hazarded the remark, what a happiness
it would be if only her brother
Guelph, could manage to please Lady
Elise's fancy, and persuade her to marry
him. At the time, the idea had been
pooh-poohed by the others as a thing
too good to be possible — a joy too unattainable
to be worth reckoning on. A
woman like her would of course be the
very beate ideal of a wife for him ; but
then it was no use setting their hearts on
such a piece of luck as that, because they
would be so sure to be disappointed.
But as Lady Elise's willingness to respond
to their advances, and accept the invitations
and other attentions which they
offered her, became more and more apparent,
the idea began to seem less unlikely
after all ; and they were now looking forward

with ever-increasing confidence to
the glorious possibility of her one day
becoming an actual member of their
family.

Whether Lady Elise herself ever contemplated
such a thing or not it was
impossible to say. At all events she was
continually in their company, partaking
freely of all the good things they had to
offer, and donor her best to shut her
eyes to whatever peculiarities of manner,
speech, or sentiment jarred against her
aristocratic sense of what was fitting.
She reflected that it was absurd to be
over-particular about trifles with people
who meant really well by one. Still it
would certainly be a comfort, considering
how often she dined with old Mr Croesus-hogg,
if he were not so vei^y fond of
putting his knife into his mouth — and
such a long way in too — almost down
his throat sometimes! It was a thing
to which she had an especial objection,

because she never saw it done without
being in an agony lest the hand should
slip, and the mouth be slit open ; and
that fear always communicated to her
own lips a series of involuntary, smarting
thrills of sympathy which continued till
the misused knife had again returned to
a place of safety. She would make heriot
attempts to argue herself out of this weakness
— reminding herself that even if the
knife-sucker's hand did chance to slip, no
one but himself could possibly be the
worse for it ; that she could look another
way during the performance ; that it was
absurd to let a fad like that interfere
with her enjoyment of Leblanc's exquisite
cooking. But however well aware she
might be of her own folly, she nevertheless
could not wholly succeed in reconciling
herself to her host's manner of eating ;
and if he happened to be away on any of
the numerous occasions when she was at
his house at meal-times, she invariably

hailed his absence with a feeling of grateful
relief.

This was far from being the only way in
which her natural prejudices were continually
offended by her new friends, though
as she was too philosophical and worldly
wise not to be able to tolerate what was
unpleasant when it was to her interest todo
so, she gave no sign of the discomposure
that they again and again caused her.
But that did not prevent her from having
often a secret sensation of annoyance —
a sort of rising of the gorge in their company
; and she always experienced an
especial feeling of refreshment and content
when once more mixing in the
society of her equals after an unwontedly
large dose of the family of the Croesus


EAR Ethel ! how fortunate to
find you at home ! ' exclaimed
Lady Elise, gushingly, as she
followed the footman into the room where
Ethel and Imoijen were. ' Mrs Croesus-hogg
brought me here in her carriage,
and I made her come early on purpose,
because then I thought there might be
some chance of catching you before you
went out for the afternoon. It's quite an
age since we've seen each other, isn't it ? '

Quite ; ' rejoined Ethel, gravely ; ' two
or three ages at least, I should say. I

think It really must be a whole week since
you were here last. Do you find me much
altered ? or do I seem to be wearing pretty
well?'

Lady Elise laughed rather affectedly.
She could not quite make out whether this
speech was mere harmless chaff, or whether
perhaps Ethel's making fun of the exaggerated
expression she had used, was meant
ill-naturedly. For she did not feel very
certain as to whether or not Ethel might
be inclined in some way to resent finding
herself deserted in favour of the Croesus-hogs
— and that uncertainty prevented
Lady Elsie from being altogether at her
ease just now.

Ha, ha ! ' said she ; * what funny things
you do say, Ethel ! But I'm too delighted
not to have missed you, as I want to ask a
great, a particularly great favour of you.
Only tell me something about yourself
first. How are you } and have you had
any news as to the stolen jewels yet } '

Thank you ; I'm quite well,' answered
Ethel. ' I've not heard a word as to the
jewels. When last I did have a communication
on the subject, it was to the
effect that the police had no further clue
whatever.'

Dear, dear ! how terribly provoking ! '
replied Lady Elise. ' Isn't it too wonderful
where that man Richards can have hidden
them ? I think it's really too stupid of the
police people not to find them out, or make
him tell, or at any rate do something to
punish him.'

Why so, when he'd nothing whatever
to do with the robbery?' said Imogen, firing
up indignantly on behalf of the man
whom she believed to be a persecuted
innocent. ' I think it's very wrong of
people to go on speaking of him as if he'd
done it, when the jury have expressly said
that he didn't. I should just like to see a
few of them prosecuted for libel ! That
would soon teach them to be more careful'

VOL. III. B

Lady Elise coloured at this blunt attack ;
and Ethel, knowing Imogen's uncompromising
way of defending her own
opinions, and fearing that a squabble was
about to ensue, hastened to interpose before
Lady Elise could reply.

By-the-bye,' said Ethel, addressing
her cousin, ' is the poor man well again,
now ? He was very ill, wasn't he, in the
winter ? '

Yes, he was ; but he's all right now, as
far as health goes. Not in other ways,
though, for all this bother about the
burglary is driving him out of the country,
and he's off to America next month. He
and his wife hate going like poison, but
there's no help for it. Lies and slanders
have made this country too hot for them,
and they can do no good staying in it any
longer.'

Going to America, is he .'^ ' said Lady
Elise, endeavouring spitefully to aggravate
the girl who had as good as told her she

was libellous. ' Ah, then depend upon it,
that's where he's managed to send the
jewels to. It's all a pretence that he
doesn't like moving, and, of course, in
reality he's looking forward to the fun he
means to have there when he's disposed of
his booty.'

A storm was inevitable if the conversation
continued to relate to Richard
Richards ; so Ethel, with much presence
of mind, promptly introduced a fresh
topic.

Pray do leave that wretched burglary
alone,' she said ; ' if you only knew how
tired I am of it, I'm sure you wouldn't
inflict it on me any more. Tell me instead
about these grand amateur theatricals that
the Croesus Hoggs are going to have,
Elise. Of course you know all about it —
what will be acted, and who'll act, and all
the rest of it.'

'Well, I think I do know pretty much
all that is settled, so far,' returned Lady

Ellse. ' I assure you It's to be a quite too
awfully tremendous affair.'

So everyone seems to expect,' said
Ethel. ' Mr Scriven declares that on that
occasion all such adjuncts as dresses,
decorations, scenery, flowers, supper, etc.,
are certain to be so splendid as to make
it a very unimportant matter what the
actors are like. Even if they were the
veriest sticks that ever breathed, yet the
performance cannot fail to be a success, he
says. In fact, I suppose, it'll be like a
picture whose setting and frame are sufficiently
magnificent to carry off any shortcomings
on the part of the artist. Who
are going to act ? '

It is not altogether settled set. Mr
Trevor Owen is to act for one. I met
him there at lunch to-day, and we've all
been having a tremendous theatrical talk.
By-the-bye, he gives me the idea of being
quite wonderfully smitten with the eldest
mrl, Guinevere. She is to act also —

though I fancy she's rather made a mistake
in the part she's chosen ; they say her
natural turn is for comedy, but unluckily
she's taken it into her head to try melodrama
this time, and I'm too dreadfully
afraid that perhaps she won't succeed.
There are to be two pieces acted, and she
insists on being the leading lady in the
second one ; and as soon as he heard that,
he made quite a desperate fuss to be let to
play hero to her heroine ; no one objected,
so that much is arranged definitely, at all
events.'

Then Trevor Owen also had gone over
to the Croesus Hoggs ! Ethel very well
understood that this was what had happened,
just as clearly as she had comprehended
the meaning of Lady Elise's less
frequent visits of late, and general diminution
of attentions ; for Miss Carton's passivity
did not hinder her from being observant
enough to have a very good idea of what
went on around her. Not the faintest

wish had she, to retain either the lady
or gentleman as worshippers at her own
shrine, and their ready transfer of allegiance
to the Croesus Hoggs, caused her
no little amusement, untinged by the
smallest particle of resentment. It was
a matter of profound indifference to her
whether Lady Elise and Trevor Owen
might think it worth their while to continue
to court her or not. But her indifference
in this respect did not make it
altogether agreeable to her to be shown
thus plainly how very little her friends
esteemed her for herself, and how entirely
for what she was worth in L. S. D. She
did not much relish having that fact
brought home forcibly to her, however
willing she might be to allow that it was
no more than the truth. Therefore her
self-love was a little bit wounded by what
she had just heard. A hazy notion crossed
her mind that she would like some day
or other to exert herself for once : to show

people what sort of stuff she was really
made of; to try and discover what she
was really worth apart from her heiress ship.
Only then the worst of doing that would
be that it would be sure to involve a
dreadful amount of trouble. And besides,
it would be utterly inconsistent with her
favourite masterly inaction policy !

I can't say I've ever seen Miss Croesus
but no doubt she and Mr Owen
will make an excellent couple,' she remarked
sweetly. ' And who'll they have
to act with them ? '

Well, there's a singing part which
Lady George Quaver has half promised
to undertake,' answered Lady Elise, ' and
if so, it's sure to be a success — she has
such an altogether delicious voice, you
know. But there's another important male
part besides the hero's in the piece, and
their great hope is to get that Mr Sylvester
to do it — the man who is with
Messrs Glass at Cwm-Eithin. They say

he's a capital actor, and quite to be
depended upon to make up for any unsteadiness
In the leading couple. They've
asked him to take the part, but he hasn't
answered yet for certain. He says It must
depend a good deal on his business engagements.
Just now he's employed up
in London. I believe he's going to betaken
into partnership In a few weeks.'

But you've only told us about the
second play, yet,' said Ethel. ' Who are
to be hero and heroine In the first one ? '

Lady Ellse looked a little bit conscious
as she replied, —

Oh, Mr Guelph Croesus-Hogg Is to
have the chief man's role ; and as for the
woman's — I don't quite know — they are
very anxious that I should see what I can
do with it. Perhaps I may — indeed, I've
almost as good as promised that I will.
But there are two principal female parts in
that piece — one almost as important as the
other — and they pressed me so hard to

find some friend of mine for It, that It
seemed quite Ill-natured to refuse. And
that's the especial object that's brought
me here to-day. I didn't say a word to
them about my idea, which Is this : it
suddenly occurred to me how awfully nice
it would be If you were to take It, dearest
Ethel. Now do pray say yes — it would
be so quite too delightful if you would ! '

I am much obliged for the offer,'
answered Ethel, laughing ; ' but I'm afraid
I must decline ; I'm sure I should be
too nervous for one thing. And besides,
I distrust my acting capacities, and don't
at all believe they'd be equal to such
a great occasion.'

Oh ! now that's only your modesty,'
returned Lady Elise, eagerly. ' I saw
you acting once last year, and I remember
you did it quite too capitally.'

But then I don't know your friends,'
objected Ethel ; ' that's another reason
against It.'

I assure you xhdit's per-fectly immaterial,'
said Lady Elise, who was very anxious to
get as many people of her own set as possible
to take part in the theatricals, in
order to keep her in countenance. ' Not
only would any friend of mine be welcome,
but also I know that you are a person
whose acquaintance they would be only
too inhabited to make. Now do let me
persuade you, there's a dear ! '

Ethel was about to refuse absolutely,
when all of a sudden it struck her that this
would be an opportunity for her to carry
out that fancy which had just now come to
her for showing what she could do, and finding
out people's real opinion of her. Acting
was an amusement for which she believed
herself to have some turn. Why not appear
incog, and see what reception she would
meet with from an audience who had no
knowledge of who she really was ? It was
a sudden, wild idea, very unlike her usual
prudent and indolent self, and doubtless

owing its origin to that little sting which
her self-love had just received.

Well, perhaps it might not be bad fun,
if no one knew it was me she returned,
after a moment s consideration. ' Do you
think that could be managed } Could I
alter myself in dressing for the part, so as
not to be recognised ? '

Imogen stared in surprise at this utterly
unexpected reply, and almost doubted the
evidence of her own ears. What could the
tranquil and aristocratic Ethel be thinking
of, to condescend to join in the revels of
these vulgarians ? As it was Ethel who
contemplated this freak, there must doubtless
be some good reason therefor ; and it
was very certain that Ethel herself could
not become in the slightest degree tainted
by contact with their vulgarity, whatever
she might do. Still — it was extremely
incomprehensible.

Lady Elise was astonished also. She
had thought there was enough chance of

securing the heiress to make the attempt
not altogether a hopeless one ; yet she
had not much expected to succeed, and
was delighted to see such ready signs of
yielding.

Oh dear, yes ! ' she exclaimed ; ' you
can alter yourself as easily as possible.
It's the part of an elderly woman ; and
what with doing your hair differently,
and the dress and get-up altogether,
there wouldn't be the faintest difficulty
about making you unrecognisable. Only
there's the name on the play-bills,' she
added ; ' you forget that that would tell
who you are.'

Not if I took some other name,' said
Ethel. ' I might adopt my second name,
and appear as Miss Percival, you know.
I don't suppose there would be any harm
in doing that.*

Harm ! ' rejoined Lady Elise. ' Why,
what harm could there be in it ? Of
course not ! Then let's consider the

matter settled, shall we ? Oh ! this is
quite too delicious ! '

Well, I can't say for certain till I've
asked my uncle,' said Ethel ; ' but if he
makes no objection, you can send me the
part. In that case I shall learn it by myself
at home and not with the other performers,
so as avoid being Miss Percival
as much as I can. I don't know that I
shall altogether like appearing under false
colours, and it'll be quite enough to have
to do it on the day of the performance
without multiplying the occasions needlessly.'


There'll be the rehearsals though,' observed
Imogen. ' Won't you have to goto
them ? '

I don't see that would be necessary if
I work up my part alone thoroughly. At
any rate I should think I might manage
not to want to attend more than one. Mr
Owen is the person who would be most
likely to recognise me amongst the other

actors ; but as he acts in the other piece,
and as I shouldn't stay a minute longer
than was absolutely indispensable, I daresay
I should be able to keep out of his
way.'

Oh, no doubt you would ! ' cried Lady
Elise. * And I'll use all my influence with
the Croesus Hoggs to make everything
smooth for you, and to keep your secret
from them and everyone else. Do go and
ask your uncle, dearest Ethel ! I'm quite
dying to feel that I've actually secured you.
I'm convinced you'll have no difficulty
with him, and that he won't object to anything
you wish to do.'

I don't quite know about that,' said
Ethel, smiling. * If I were to wish to have
a finger in the construction of that machine
he's making, I've an idea he'd object very
strongly indeed. However, I'll go and see
what he says to the acting scheme.'

So saying she went to his room, leaving
her two visitors to turn over photograph

books, remark that it was a fine day,
and preserve an armed neutrality till her
return.

Well ? ' exclaimed Lady Elise, eagerly,
as soon as Ethel reappeared.

He says I may do as I like ; so I'll
try what I can do with this role of yours,
provided you and Imogen promise faithfully
not to breathe a syllable that can
make anyone suspect Miss Percival and
Miss Carton to be identical. Absolute
incog, is the condition upon which alone
I'll act, remember.'

Her cousin and Lady Elise readily promised
secrecy ; and when the latter met
the Croesus Hoggs that night she told
them that she had induced a friend of hers
named Percival to act in the same piece
as herself in the approaching theatricals.

Little did anyone anticipate how those
theatricals were destined to end, and how
much difference would ensue from Ethel's
sudden whim of appearing incognito in them!

SYLVESTER AND LOVE.

OW did the land lie between
Imogen and Mr Sylvester ?
Was there any real cause for
Sir Charles' disquietude ?

Mr Sylvester was a man who generally
made a very definite impression of some
kind on whoever had much to do with him
his identity marking itself strongly on
the memory something like that of a scent,
which whether pleasant or not, is too powerful
to be easily forgotten by anyone who has
once known It. It was only natural, therefore,
that Imogen should think a good deal

about him, and that he should occupy In
her mind a niche of his own which was
quite apart from that of anyone else.
Dangerous symptoms, no doubt ! The
man who is much in a girl's thoughts, and
has secured a special niche in her mental
furniture, is not unlikely to finish by
gaining possession of her heart. But
though Imogen liked Sylvester, she had
not yet got any farther than that. She
was dimly conscious that his powers of
attraction were counterbalanced by occasional
glimpses of something in his nature
that seemed almost terrifying and mysterious.
And it was probably owing to
this vague consciousness that she had sofar
escaped falling in love with him.

She fancied that there was an alteration
in him now from what he had been when
first she made his acquaintance. Then he
had seemed much the same sort of person
at all times ; but of late he had grown more
uncertain, and it was impossible to reckon

VOL. III. c

beforehand on what sort of a humour he
would be in. One day he would be fierce,
reckless, hard and cynical ; and on the
next, perhaps, almost like another man ;
gentle, and giving her a strange sense
of pity for she knew not what, and of being
in the presence of something sad, of witnessing
some repressed and terrible trouble
of either mind or body. Sometimes she
would fancy that his old cynicism and
hardness were diminishing ; and then again
would tell herself that it was not so in reality,
and that what made her think so was
only because by this time she had become
accustomed to these things, and did not
therefore always notice them now as much
as she had done at first. Anyhow he was
a sphinx to her — a being whom she had
no key to understand. And, fearless as
she naturally was, yet there were times
when she was by no means sure in her
secret soul that she was not a little bit
afraid of this man.

When she speculated (as she did occasionally)
on the way in which she regarded
him, there was one point that
especially exercised her mind, and seemed
to her unaccountable. It was a favourite
opinion of hers, and one which she had
often maintained hotly in discussion with
him, or anyone else who happened to talk
about the reasons for people's liking one
another, that likings were impossible between
persons who had nothing in common,
and could not thoroughly trust each other.
Now she could not deny that she certainly
did like Mr Sylvester in a way ; and yet
when she asked herself whether he and
she had anything in common, and whether
he was a man in whom she felt confidence,
she had very considerable doubts of being
able to answer in the affirmative. How
was that ? Was her theory an unsound
one then ? She knew that in respect of
all the other people whom she liked, she
could say unhesitatingly that she had

points of sympathy with them, and would
not hesitate to trust to them. Take her
father, for instance, or Ethel, or Ralph, or
or — Sir Charles Dover. Though she
did not want to marry this last, yet she
did not for a moment deny that she liked
him ; but then it was quite according to
her theory that she should do so.

He knew nothing about moths, it was
true, and had even been so stupid as to
suppose she could want a couple of Thya-
tira Batis (poor fellow ! he had meant
it kindly all the same ; and what trouble
he must have had about the setting of
them !) ; but still she had not the faintest
doubt that most of his tastes, occupations,
and amusements would be congenial to
her, and such as she could sympathise with.
She had discovered, too, that he had high
principles, and an honest desire to do right.
She knew it intuitively, though he never
said much about it ; and, as for trusting
him — why, the idea that anyone who did

that would ever find their confidence misplaced,
was an absurdity too great to be
contemplated seriously I Oh yes ; it was
the most natural elinor in the world to
like such a person as that, and there was
no difficulty whatever about understanding
it. But why should she care at all for
Mr Sylvester, who was so absolutely
different ? Had he some strange power —
she hardly knew whether to call it attractive
or repellant — which was peculiar to
himself ? Some power that could even
dwarf, overshadow, and make to appear
as of comparative unimportance, the virtues
to which other people owed their likeable-ness,
so as to enable him to be independent
of such things ?

But whatever doubt there misfht be as
to the state of Imogen's sentiments towards
Sylvester, there was none at all as to his
towards her. She had attracted him from
the first moment when he had heard her
voice, and that attraction had gone on

increasing at every successive meeting till
it had at last taken possession of his whole
nature.

It must not be supposed that he gave
way to this feeling without a struggle. It
gained insidiously upon him for a while
without his realising what was happening
to him, and when at last it one day dawned
upon him that he was beginning to fall
seriously in love, he became alarmed, and
made up his mind at once to crush a
weakness that might prove prejudicial to
his interests. He meant to live alone,
to concentrate his energies wholly on
pushing himself on in the world ; and
had long ago determined never to let
himself be hampered and kept down by
a wife and family clinging to his heels,
expecting to share his substance, and to
be provided for. A pretty idea for such a
man as him, indeed !

But Imogen had a charm for him that
was more potent even than his schemes

of ambition and calculating selfishness,
and presently he was forced to confess
to himself with amazement that he had
been encountered by a power that was
strong enough to conquer even him — invincible
as he had hitherto believed himself
to be.

What was to be the end of It all ? He
had lied, cheated, embezzled, committed
burglary. If anyone had ever stood in
his way, or seemed to threaten rivalry,
he had not hesitated to get that person
removed from his path by either fair means
or foul ; he cared nothing for right or
wrong, and had lived only for himself —
fighting his way upwards in the world
boldly, unscrupulously, and successfully,
though often at great risks. And she —
how utterly different to all this she was
with her ignorance of evil ; her quality) -
earnest, though somewhat spasmodic unhappiness
at not knowing how to set to
work in order to advance the general good

of humanity ; her ready belief In others
without suspecting them to be less sincere
than herself ; her downright honesty ; her
delight in innocent pursuits and amusements
; her freedom from desire for any
other position of life than that in which
she found herself; her horror of injustice,
falsehood, and wrong. How enormous
was the contrast between them, and by
how deep a gulf were their real selves
separated from one another ! Would It
ever be possible to bridge over that gulf,
the full magnitude of which could be known
to no creature save himself ?

If she had been only more like him !
But there he stopped short. Was it nota
profanation to imagine her as false,
faithless, hard, with dark secrets that
would, if known, make her unable to
show her face openly, and go about like
other people ? Would her charm for him
ever have existed if she had been such
an one as that ? Would he not, in that

case, have probably been indifferent to
her, or perhaps have even regarded her
with disgust ? Yet no ! it must be mere
folly to suppose that ; for why should one
dislike in another person the qualities that
one most approved of and cherished in
one's-self. Ah ! but then the question
was whether he did approve of them in
himself? Was there no mistake in thinking
that ? Was he absolutely certain that
he was as well satisfied with himself ashe
had imagined — and that he would not
be glad, were it possible, to alter the
past in order that he might now be more
like her ?

Such were the questions that forced
themselves upon him with a rush of
passionate longing for her affection, and
a bitter sense of the width and depth of
the formidable o^ulf dividing him from
her. Next moment he was fiercely
indignant with himself for being thus
troubled. Was he a mere weak fool to

want to undo what he had done ? — to
become ashamed of himself and of the Hfe
he had led ? It was hardly likely, indeed !

But no amount of resentment could
alter what was the real state of the case.
Whether he liked it or not, none the less
was it the truth that the influence of his
love for Imogen had begun to take effect
upon him, and to undermine the foundations
of the evil stronghold that had
seemed to be planted so securely. Had
it not been for that, he would not have
hesitated about what to do in regard to
trying to marry her, and would have
avoided a difficulty that now tormented
him.

Here was the dilemma in which he
found himself. Should he let her seethe
gulf between them, and then ask her
to be his wife ? Or should he give her
up ? Or should he try to get her to
marry him without giving her any inkling
of what he really was } To tell his

secrets seemed impossible. Not only
would he have to fly the country if they
should be known ; but also, what chance
was there that she would consent to bethe
wife of a man with such a past life
as his ? Yet to resign all further idea
of winning her was a thing that he
certainly could not bear to do. The
only course remaining, therefore, was not
to tell her anything, and try to make her
his wife all the same. There could be
no reason why a man with no principles
should object to that course ; yet somehow
the idea of it was revolting to him
in some way or other it seemed most
especially villainous, and he could not
manage to reconcile himself to the thought
of adopting it, in spite of all the arguments
urged by reasonable selfishness in
its favour. Look at matters how he
would, there was that past life of his
with its evil deeds rising up sternly to
shut him off from her, and he bitterly

realised the truth of two lines In Felix
Holt :—

And having tasted stolen honey,
You can't buy innocence for money.'

With passion swaying him to and fro,
and his newly awakened conscience struggling
for its proper place at the helm, he
kept veering from side to side according
as conscience succeeded or failed In Its
struggle ; and this caused the alterations
that Imogen had observed in him of late.
The powerful passenger, Love, having
come on board had disarranged everything
and deprived him of the command of his
own ship. At one moment he was ready
to give the whole world to make her care
for him ; and then, again, he would ask
himself what good that would be when,
even If he were to succeed, he would not
know what to do next. He felt, vaguely,
that he was changing — that a conflict
whose issue he could not foretell was going
on within him — that his will seemed to

have lost its former strength ; and he
would get angry, sometimes almost maddened,
at the doubts and passions that
distracted him.

He thought of Tennyson's lines : —

*tis better to have loved and lost,
Than never to have loved at all ; '

and wondered that anyone who had ever
loved should have written them. As far
as he could see, it was impossible for love
ever to lead to anything but misery and
disappointment. Supposing it not to be
returned, then how pitiable was the state
of the poor lover who was doomed to find
that his patient waiting, devotion, dreams,
and hopes had been all in vain ; and that
the thing he most longed for in the whole
world was hopelessly unattainable. Or,
take another case, suppose that the love
were returned after a lukewarm and half-hearted
fashion, with none of the warmth
and energy that inspired the lover. Was

that likely to content the poor wretch ?
Would he not be tormented by restless
jealousy, and wistful cravings that pride
would perhaps forbid him to show ? And
when at last he should come to realise the
truth — to realise the futility of his longings,
and perceive that he could never
hope to receive such deep, true, affection
as he had himself given — would not the
pain of unrequited love be an enduring,
gnawing ache that would be worse to bear
than any transient bodily pang ? Much
happiness that man would have derived
from love ! Or say, again, that the affection
given were returned with equal
ardour, so that It might seem at first sight
as though here, at least, love must have
brought satisfaction. Yet could that really
be the case when the state of bliss would
be marred by the knowledge of its liability
to be broken in upon by death and separation
? The more perfect the happiness —
and perfect indeed such happiness would

be — the more terrible would be the dread
of losing it. Its destruction could leave
only broken hearts (if such things really
were), and a dreary, blank future that
would be one continual regretful retrospect
at past joys that could never come again.
Who was to be called happy with the
possibility of such a fate as that hanging
over him ? And since these were the
necessary consequences of love — a mysterious
power that when once it took hold
of a man so altered his whole nature as to
prevent his ever again being the same as
before — how could anyone speak of it as
the poet did ? It was nearly enough to
make one suppose that he did not know
what he was talking of, and had never
truly loved in his life — only then it was
impossible to read the rest of In Memoriam
and think that.

That Sylvester should have reasoned
in this way was but natural, for it would
have been absurd to expect of such a man

as him that he should perceive any possible
good to be derived from love apart
from the gratification of self. If he had
been told that love was far horner and
better than what he imagined it to be ;
and that its beautifying, elevating, and
purifying tendency was capable of benefiting
people even whilst causing them
anxiety, sorrow, failure, loss, and disappointment,
he would have jeered at the
notion as fit only for a lunatic asylum.

In considering this man's character, be
it remembered especially that it was not
altogether his own doing that he was
what he was, and that he would probably
have been far different and better had he
had some one to love him and be good
to him when a child, and save him from
concentrating his affections wholly upon
himself as he had done. Now at last,
however, they were being shaken by a
still more powerful magnet that attracted
him elsewhere, and his whole system

was thrown into commotion by their
movement.

Yet the manet knew nothlno^ of its
own power. Imogen, with faults, soles,
and virtues blended together according
to the wont of humanity, never dreamt
how she was revolutionising his nature ;
how likely any chance word of hers was
to give it a bend or straighten it ; what
power, for good or for evil, she had over
him.

Ethel's unconsciously-exercised influence
over herself ought perhaps to have taught
her the possibility that she, in her turn,
might also be influencing some other
person without knowing it. But the
lesson had not come home to her yet,
and she had not even begun to realise
what an amount of work — both good and
bad — is performed in this world of ours by
unconscious influence.

VOL. in.

PICNICKING.

T was one morning about a
week after Miss Carton had
consented to take part in
the Croesus-hogs theatricals, that Sylvester
sat in his room considering the
same question as regarded himself. He
had been asked to act with the most
flattering urgency, but had postponed
replying until he could be sure what
would be required of him in respect of
some business arrangements. Now, however,
he had just ascertained that they
need not stand in his way, and was about

to accept the Croesus-Hogg invitation,
when it suddenly struck him that before
doing that, he might as well try and find
out whether or no Ethel would be at the
party.

Of course he was quite prepared for the
very probable contingency of having to
make her acquaintance at some time or
other ; he did not anticipate evil consequences
from that event, for he believed
there was no chance whatever of her
identifying the voice, manner, and appearance
of his natural self, with those
that he had assumed as a burglar. Still,
as there could be no use in running any
needless risks, he meant to keep out of
her way if possible, and had hitherto
contrived, without exciting suspicion, to
avoid the various opportunities of being
presented to her that had occurred through
his attachment to Imogen's society.

If he had thought it a wise Precaution

O J.

thus to shun meeting Miss Carton under

"""V,

'-''"^'^.,.

ordinary social conditions, still more would
it be prudent to do so when he would be
disguised as a man of the lower orders,
which was the part he was requested to
take in the theatricals. Under those
circumstances there would evidently bean
increased danger of the siofht of him
awakening awkward recollections in her
mind ; so he came to the conclusion that
he would decline the Croesus Hoo;-o^ invitation
if she were likely to be present at
the performance. He was pretty sure
that she was not acquainted with the
Croesus Hoggs, but would easily be able
to ascertain the fact for certain from
Imogen ; therefore he would postpone
answering the invitation till he should
have found out what he wanted to know
from her. The delay this would involve
would be only trifling, as he was to meet
her on that same day at a picnic up the
river, to which he knew that she and her
father were going.

The giver of the picnic was Lady
Gough, wife of the member for Cwm-
Within, and amongst her guests on the
occasion was another of Imogen's admirers,
viz., Sir Charles Dover. The
party was composed of about a dozen
or so of people, who had been invited
to assemble at Putney. There boats
were in waiting to convey them up the
river ; and a very merry and contented
set of people they were, as they rowed
along in the bright sunshine, except Sir
Charles, who was anything but satisfied
with the situation which Fortune (as
represented by the hostess, Lady Gough)
had assigned to him.

He had been in the very act of following
Imogen into the boat where she was
taking her seat, when he had been recalled
by the voice of Lady Gough, telling
him off to another boat, in which he
found himself placed next to a Miss
Smith, who was going through a course

of cookery lectures at South Kensington,
and could talk of nothing else. In the
most liberal spirit she endeavoured to
impart to all other people — partners,
casual acquaintances, visitors, or whoever
she might happen to meet — the instructions
in the culinary art which she was
herself receiving. She never by any
chance remembered the quantities, proportions,
or length of time required in
preparing the various dishes she described,
so that, perhaps, her well-meant
endeavours to promote useful knowledge
may have been less efficacious than she
intended. But then, as she said herself,
those little firkin matters were mere
matters of detail, and would soon come
afterwards — the grand thing was to know
what ingredients to use. The art of
manufacturing desire notre and matelotes
was at present occupying her mind ; and
butter, pepper, nutmeg, anchovy, button
mushrooms, button onions, tarragon vinegar,

capers, and similar things were the
sole topics of her conversation. Cooped
up beside her, in a boat, the poor baronet
could not help himself, and had to endure
her perforce ; but the first use he made of
his legs, on regaining dry land and liberty,
was to fly beyond reach of her voice.

A clump of trees, standing in the midst
of a large, uneven common, was the spot
fixed upon for that feeding process, which
is the essential point of a picnic ; and
though the trees were some distance off
from the stream, it was not long before
the materials for the feast were transferred
thither from the boats by the servants and
some of the gentlemen of the party.

At lunch Sir Charles was more fortunate
than before, and managed to secure the
place next Imogen ; but afterwards his
luck seemed to have again deserted him.
The party broke up into small divisions
as soon as the meal was over, and dispersed
in various directions, to flirt,

smoke, walk, sit still, sketch, botanize,
or snooze, according to the bent of their
several inclinations ; and his ambition
naturally was to attach himself to his
lady love. He was, however, shy of
doing so without being invited, or receiving
some mark of encouragement ; for the
consciousness that he was a rejected lover
made him always very much afraid of boring
her, or of appearing to want to force
himself upon her against her will.

Whilst he hung about near her, hoping
that she would ask him to join her, or
that he might find some colourable pretext
for doing so, Sylvester stepped in and
carried her off. Having entered into
conversation with her, he managed by
degrees to get her away from the people
by whom she had been standing, and they
were soon wandering off together alone.
Sir Charles looked after them enviously,
and had half a mind to go and join them
unasked. But thus to intrude himself

on two people who were evidently agreeable
to one another, and perfectly contented
without a third person, would be both ill-natured
and gentlemanlike, so he resolved
to keep out of their way. As long
as she was happy, he had no right to
interfere, he knew very well ; but that
did not make it any the pleasant for
him, when he felt that he was being left
out in the cold, and that his rival was
having everything his own way. He
might, if he liked, have consoled himself
with someone else, as one or two of the
other girls of the party would readily have
taken him in tow, and been agreeable to
him if he had been at all disposed to accept
their ministrations. But his head was far
too full of Imogen to make that possible,
and he moved about disconsolately without
in the least perceiving the gentle indications
which they gave of their benevolent
intentions.

Really, it was too bad for that Sylvester

to be eternally in her pocket — It didn't
give anyone else a chance. And yet
Ralph had declared positively that he was
sure it didn't mean anything. Sir Charles
would like to know what the boy would
say about it now, if he were here to see
what was going on ! What awfully stupid
things picnics were. Might do well enough,
and too well, too ! for spooning purposes
no doubt, but otherwise there could be no
possible satisfaction to be had out of them
unless one happened to have a taste for
ants and other insects with one's food,
and for little caterpillars crawling about
the back of one's neck ! There was nothing
to do, and one had to go on all day talking
to the same stupid people, and all saying
the same stupid sort of things.

In this discontented frame of mind he
was discovered and taken possession of
by Lady Gough, who was the only other
companionless member of the party. Being
a social humbug of the first water, and

most conscientious, she proceeded immediately
to do her duty both by this waif
and herself according to her lights : that
is to say, she endeavoured to get through
the time with as little ennui as possible,
and to convey to other people the impression
that it was by deliberate selection
and preference that she and her cavalier
were walking about together, and not at
all because of their having happened to
be the only two members of the party who
had been left alone by the others, and had
no one else to fall back upon.

And to her care we will leave him whilst
we follow Imogen and Sylvester, who had
by this time seated themselves comfortably
close to a heap of stones, on a sloping part
of the common, some distance off from the
clump of trees.

Have you yet made up your mind
whether or not to act at the Croesus-Hogg
party ? ' she was saying.

Not quite,' he replied ; * I suppose that

if I do, you will look down on me with
contempt. I know very well what an
aversion you have to those poor people,
and that in your secret heart you consider
it a mean truckling to money on the part
of anyone who goes near them. Now,
isn't that true ? And don't you mean to
despise every soul who goes to their party ? '

Imogen looked as if she did not altogether
relish this question.

Well — no — not altogether,' she answered,
with some confusion. * The fact
is, I believe I shall be there myself after
all.'

YoM ! ' said Sylvester with surprise ;
I certainly did not think anything would
have induced Miss Rhys to condescend
to be entertained by a Croesus Hogg !
What can have caused such a change
of purpose ? Is it that an exalted personage
is said to be likely to be there,
and that you think wherever the prince
goes it would be unbecoming of his

subjects not to follow him ; or in other
words, that you won't be out of the
fashion ? '

He knew well enough that she would
scorn the imputation of being influenced
by a motive which she would consider
snobbish, and was prepared for the indignant
denial with which she met it.

Most certainly not ! ' she exclaimed ;
what he chooses to do has nothing whatever
to do with me. It may be all right
enough for him to go. As a farmer's rent
comes from all his animals, it may be that
he's bound to visit them all alike, and
include the pig-sty in his rounds. But
it doesn't follow that the horse, dog, cow,
and nobler inmates of the farm-yard need
follow his example.'

Well, but a week ago you declared
that you did not know, or wish to know
these people ; and yet now you say you
are going to their house. How is the
transformation to be accounted for } '

It's no doing of 77zme ; you may be
very sure of that she answered rather
crossly; 'and I'm not at all pleased to
have to go. The way it came about was
this. A few nights ago we met these
horrid people at dinner, and it happened
that Mrs Croesus-Hogg fell to papa's lot
as a partner. Unluckily he made a favourable
impression on her, I suppose, for she
couldn't be satisfied without pressing him
to come to the bit of a party she was
"going to 'ave," making him introduce her
to me after dinner, and saying she should
come and call on us if he had no objection.
You know that dear good father of mine
can't bear saying " No " to anyone ; and
what's more, I really do believe he was
rather amused with the vulgar old thing,
and thinks it'll be fun to o^o to her " bit
of a party," so he just said yes to whatever
she wanted, and promised faithfully
to take me to the theatricals. So next
day she came and called In due form, and

left us a card of invitation. I don't think
I ever saw such a hideous thing of the
kind before ! An immense big affair with
a gorgeous crest and elaborately ugly-letters
standing out in solid gold ; a border
wonderfully illuminated in the rawest and
most ill-matched colours ; and a smell of
scent that's enough to knock one down !
I had to go and wash my fingers ever so
often to get the smell out after merely
touching it. And papa insisted on accepting,
and declares that we are to go ;
so we shall have to, I suppose.'

Her voice and looks showed how intensely
aggrieved she considered herself
to be. Her companion could not help
being amused at it ; yet it gave him a
pang, too, to be thus reminded of her intolerance
of whatever she disapproved of,
and he would have preferred a tendency
to leniency of judgment which might some
day prove to his own advantage.

After all,' he said with a half sigh, ' I

think you should remember that there nay
be some good in people and things even
although they do not entirely correspond
to your standard of excellence. By-the-bye,
that reminds me of your cousin Miss
Carton, whom I know you admire. Is
she as particular as yourself? Does she
admit the Croesus Hoggs to her visiting
list?'

Imogen had not forgotten that no hint
was to be given of Ethel's intention to be
one of the actors, and shook her head.
No,' she returned; 'they're not there
yet, to my positive knowledge. But I
do wish you knew Ethel ; I'm sure you'd
like her — she's so awfully nice. I really
must introduce you to her. You know
I've meant to do it several times already,
only something or other has always just
happened to prevent it. There's been
quite a fate against it ! '

This was not quite so unaccountable to
Sylvester as it was to Imogen, since he

had himself on each occasion, contrived
the obstacle which had interfered with the
introduction. However, he did not mean
her to suspect that, so he replied hypocritically
— ' Yes, I certainly have been
wonderfully unfortunate in that respect
hitherto, but I must hope for better luck
in the future. It wont be at the Croesus-hogs
I'm afraid though, as I think you
said that she wont be there, didn't you ? '

Imogen would not tell a He about it,
nor would she betray the secret entrusted
to her, so she evaded giving a direct
answer.

I know positively that they are complete
strangers to each other,' she replied ;
they've never met, called, or had any
communication together. But to go back
to what I asked you at first. I wish you'd
make up your mind to act as they want
you to do. I'm interested In the matter
myself, now that I shall be there. I should
like to see you perform — do say yes.'

VOL. III. E

It was sweet to him to be asked by her,
and he looked earnestly and longingly at
her.

Consider it done, then,' he said softly.
If a thing pleases you, that is reason
enough for It in my eyes. It would need
a weighty argument Indeed that could
prevent my endeavouring to gratify your
lightest wish.'

Gesture, voice, and look are often more
expressive than words ; and Imogen was
suddenly conscious of a deep wistful tenderness
about her companion that made
her feel uneasy, and think she would like
to rejoin the rest of the party, though she
did not exactly know why. Her embarrassment
was terminated, however, almost
before perceived, by a startling cry which
was now borne down the wind to their
ears, and made her forget about everything
else. That cry was ' Mad dog ! mad dog ! '

A MAD DOG.

EW people care to sit still with
a mad dog loose about somewhere
close by, and the shout
that Imogen and Sylvester had heard,
brought them to their feet in a moment.
On looking round they saw a large dog, at
some distance off, running towards them
with a couple of men in full chase after it.

Let's make for those trees where we
lunched ! ' cried Imogen. ' There are
plenty of low branches there that we can
climb into, and be safe.*

They're too far off ! ' returned Sylvester,

anxiously. ' We shouldn't have time. If
the dog keeps on as he's going now, he'll
be past the trees, and meet us before we
could possibly get there.'

This being evidently the case, they
looked about the great common for some
other place of safety, but could see nothing
more promising than the rough heap of
stones near which they had been sitting.

Those stones are our best chance ! »
exclaimed Sylvester. * We must crouch
down there, so that the brute won't see us,
and will pass straight on. Let's get out
of sight as quick as possible ! Whatever
you do, keep quiet, so as not to attract his
attention.'

As he spoke, he drew her towards the
heap, where they squatted down, and concealed
themselves on the side opposite to
that from which the dog was coming.

Sylvester felt a thrill of passionate joy
at the thought that he and she were exposed
to the same danger, and that there

was no one but himself to protect her.
He would have given much for an efficient
weapon at that moment ; but, unluckily,
he had nothing more formidable than a
penknife about him. A penknife might
be better than nothing, however, so he
took it out of his pocket and opened it,
kneeling beside her with the determination
that not one hair of her head should be
injured, whatever it might cost him to
defend her. Her safety was of the first
importance to him, while for his own he
gave not one thought — so inconsistent
with his selfish natural self had love made
him.

You are as safe as if you were in your
own drawing-room,' he whispered to her
earnestly. * Even if the dog should see
and attack us, I swear that he shall not
touch you — that my body shall barricade
you from him as effectually as any walls
could do.'

At this moment something fresh appeared

upon the scene, and caused Imogen
to make an effort to spring up, which intention
of hers was, however, promptly
frustrated by her companion.

Oh, look, look ! What shall we do to
save them?* she exclaimed in horrified
tones, pointing towards what had so disturbed
her.

A little distance before them, and exactly
in the direction that the dog was
taking, there was a rise on the common,
and over the brow of this hillock there
suddenly came in sight a lot of school
children out walking with their teachers,
and all unconscious of the approaching
danger, which they were making for in a
direct line. Imogen's impulse was to start
up instantly and to wave them back, without
thinking of the peril that she might
thus incur by making the dog notice her ;
but Sylvester was alive to this danger,
and when she tried to move, he held her
down by main force.

Keep quiet, whatever you do,' he whispered
; ' you can't help them, and will only
be exposing yourself to danger for nothing.
Let them mind themselves — they're notour
look-out.'

Yes they are ! They're everybody's
look-out ! Poor little souls — let me go ! '
she exclaimed breathlessly as she redoubled
her vain efforts to free herself from his
strong grasp. Then suddenly desisting
from her fruitless struggles, and remembering
that shouting would warn them equally
well, she cried triumphantly, —

But you can't stop my mouth at any
rate ! ' And then, without heeding his remonstrances,
she began shouting out, —
Mad dog ! Get out of the way ! Run ! '
as loud as she could.

The school heard her, and stopped in
alarm ; looked blankly this way and that,
and then — seeing no safe refuge anywhere
took to its heels in all directions, tumbling
and shrieking as it fled. In this stampede

was plainly to be seen how widely the
natures differed from one another ; for
while some of the teachers and bigger
girls made off as fast as their legs could
carry them without a thought of anyone
else, others, of a more chivalrous disposition,
stayed to catch up some one or other
of the titles Into their arms, or to give It a
helping hand in the race.

Oh, do let us go to them ! ' cried
Imogen, struggling with her jailer. 'Surely
we could help some of those poor little
tots ! '

But Sylvester was Immoveable.

'No, no,' said he, coolly; 'you needn't
suppose I'm going either to let you run
into danger, or to go myself and leave you
here unprotected on account of a lot of
strange brats like that. All I care for Is
to look after you, and nothing shall make
me stir from your side till you are safe
again. Jove ! what a sauve-qui-peut it is
amongst them. Hullo though! There

must be something new going on. What's
making them all stand still, and stare back
like that ? and what can that fresh shouting
be about that I hear now ? '

Evidently something exciting was to be
seen in the direction whence the foe was
advancing; for first one and then another
of the fugitives looked round, stopped running,
and began gazing behind them, till
they were all at a standstill.

The explanation of this apparently incomprehensible
behaviour was as follows : —

The dog had got very nearly abreast
of the clump of trees already mentioned,
when a man who was safely ensconced
amongst them emerged from their friendly
shelter, armed with nothlnor better than a
shawl, placed himself straight in the animal's
path, and deliberately awaited its
approach. As soon as the dog was within
reach, the man, without letting go the ends
of the shawl, dexterously flung the middle
part so as to entangle the dog's head and

blindfold it for a moment. Profiting by
this momentary check and blindness, the
man sprang astride upon the dog's shoulders
before it could get itself free, and
there he gripped it firmly with his knees
and twisted the shawl as tightly as he
could round its neck so as to bewilder and
half throttle it. The dog, which was large
and strong, naturally disliked these proceedings,
and showed its resentment by
growling, snapping, trying to bite its rider,
and downfall it could to disentangle itself.

o o

The rider, however, was not to be dislodged,
and managed — though with considerable
difficulty — to stick to his place
on the back of the blinded and floundering
creature, and to avoid its teeth, till the
men in pursuit arrived to his assistance
and put an end to the dog's life with
their sticks.

Public safety being thus re-established,
people ventured out from hiding-places
in all directions ; the scattered school assembled

together again (with the exception
of a few of the swiftest and most cowardly
who were by that time clean out of sight
and hearing) ; and things in general speedily
returned to their ordinary condition.

Only the last part of the combat between
the man and dog had been witnessed by
Imogen and Sylvester, as during the
beginning of it they had been crouching
down behind the stones out of sight. Consequently
they did not know that the man
had voluntarily left a place of safety in
order to engage in the fight. They had
seen quite enough, however, to excite
Imogen's admiration for his bravery. She
was very angry with Sylvester for having
prevented her from going to the rescue of
the school, and fully intended to expostulate
with him on the subject ; but for the
moment she could think only of the exciting
battle that had just taken place and of
her anxiety lest the hero of it should
have got hurt.

What a plucky fellow that is ! ' she
said, * and how splendidly he managed the
dog ! I couldn't quite see whether he got
bitten or not ; I do hope he didn't. Let's
go and see.'

Without waiting for an answer she set
off quickly towards the trees, and Sylvester
followed her rather sulkily. He did not
like to think that she owed her deliverance,
after all, to someone else than himself;
and he felt irritated and jealous to hear her
bestowing praises upon this other man,
whoever he might be — for they had been
too far off to make out if it was anyone
they knew or not. The conqueror of the
dog was surrounded by a group of people
who hid him from sight at first, and it was
not till Imogen was quite close that she
discovered him to be Sir Charles Dover.

I do hope you aren't hurt ! ' she exclaimed,
hurrying towards him in evident
anxiety for his safety. ' Did the dog bite
you at all } '

If Sylvester had hitherto been to be
envied for securing her society, now, at
least, whilst Sir Charles saw that he stood
first (though it might be but for a moment)
in her thoughts and interests, he would
not have exchanged places with anyone
else in the whole world.

Oh no, thanks ! ' he replied, flushing
with sudden pleasure, even though for an
instant he felt almost regretful at having
escaped unhurt. For if he had been bitten,
would not that have procured him the
felicity of remaining interesting to her fora
yet longer period ? ' The brute never
quite managed to reach me ; he only got his
teeth as far as my coat and tore that a little.*

I'm so glad,' returned she; 'it looked
much too close quarters to be pleasant
from where I was. But I don't quite understand
how it all happened, for I didn't
see the dog's first attack on you. I almost
wonder you couldn't have got out of the
way, being so close to the trees.'

Close to the trees ! ' echoed Lady
Gough, 'why, my dear Miss Rhys, he was
actually in perfect safety. When the
alarm was heard he and I were together,
and both of us climbed safely upon a
bouQfh. And then all of a sudden down
he jumped, and went out to fight the dog
armed only with a shawl of mine that he
had been carrying. It was the bravest,
coolest thing possible. I'm sure he deserves
a medal, or a Victoria cross, or
something, as much as anyone ever did in
this world.'

By Jove ! I forgot your shawl, though,
Lady Gough ; I'm afraid it's all to rags!'
exclaimed Sir Charles, who, though not
afraid to face the mad dog, was made extremely
bashful and uncomfortable by the
commendations that Lady Gough and
others were beginning to bestow upon him
freely.

He did what he could to turn the conversation
into some other channel ; and

Imogen, seeing how it annoyed him to
talk about his performance, forbore to say
anything more about it just then when
everyone else was talking and listening to
him. There was something she wanted
to know, however, and by-and-by, when
he and she and Sylvester happened to be
standing a little apart from the rest of the
party, she said, —

Then you were in safety and there
was no actual necessity for you to have
meddled with the dog at all, Sir Charles,
only you went out of your way to do it.
I want to know exactly what made you
do that, if you don't mind telling me.'

Oh, well — you see for one thing — I —
I — I wasn't quite sure about you,' answered
he with a little hesitation. ' I
knew you were somewhere about, and I
didn't know whether you were safe or
not. And then besides that there were
all those poor children you know. It
would have been shameful for a great

strong fellow like me to sit still and see
a dangerous brute go running a-muck with
a lot of women and children about and
not try to stop it ? And then there wasn't
really any risk to me either ; for if one
gets bitten it's easy enough to be made
safe by being cauterised, you know.'

Thanks for telling me your reason.
I'm so glad you thought the poor children
worth caring for,' said Imogen, glancing
meaningly at Sylvester ; 'I'm sure you
did perfectly right. It would have been
horrid to leave them to themselves.'

Sylvester perfectly understood the rebuke
conveyed to him by her glance
and speech. She had not expostulated
with him as she had at first intended,
for not letting her go to help the school ;
but she had evinced her displeasure instead
by taking no notice of him since
rejoining the rest of the party. He
knew very well what caused her avoidance
of him, and chafed internally at

i>

being thus punished for what he could
not understand her regarding as a crime.

He had been ready joyfully to sacrifice
himself on her behalf if need were ; no
cowardly thought had crossed his soul for
an instant ; and he felt sure that she was
as well aware of these things as he was
himself. What more then, could she
want ? And what right had she to be
vexed with him because he did not bother
his head as to what became of anyone
else — especially a parcel of stupid children
and their teachers ? He could not conceive
what should have inspired her with
the desire to succour such absolutely uninteresting
creatures, who were no concern
whatever of hers. If she had been one of
the school mistresses, or monitors, or a
person in any way responsible for them
and liable to get into trouble if they came
to grief, then it would have been a
different matter altogether, and he could
have understood her display of anxiety for

VOL. III. F

their welfare ; but, as it was, the thing was
a mystery to him.

And then, by some unlucky accident,
this Sir Charles, this mere long-leggit lad,
must needs be moved by the same craze,
and thus secure her attention and approval.
Sylvester eyed him with a sinister look as
she continued to laugh and talk with the
delighted baronet, whilst she would only
respond coldly to his own endeavours to
make himself agreeable, and be admitted
to a share of her favours. It was intolerable
to suppose that he, Sylvester,
could be snubbed on account of a mere
long-leggit lad ! But before long, fortune
supplied him with a means of diverting
her attention from Sir Charles, and recalling
it to himself.

Excuse my interrupting you, Miss
Rhys,' he said, ' but as you care about
moths I want to show you one that I
have found sitting on a tree close by.
The insect isn't a big one, but it's very

handsome, and looks uncommon to my
ignorant eyes.'

Her eagerness to see the moth made
her forget that she was just then out
of charity with him who had found it.

Where is it ? ' she exclaimed, looking
all around at the trees near. * I don't see
one anywhere.'

No, it's a few yards to the left,' he
answered. ' Come this way and I'll show
it you.'

He led her to the place, and Sir Charles
followed, angry at the interruption and
hoping that the moth might prove as
valueless as the ones that he had posted
to her with such care. Consequently he
was disappointed to hear her exclaim,
joyfully,—

What a little beauty ! He's a Tortrix
of some kind, though I don't know which.
At any rate he's one I've not got yet. I'm
so glad you found him ! '

With these words she produced from

her pocket a small bottle, which she habitually
carried with her, and in which there
was a small piece of cotton-wool, with a
few drops of chloroform on it. This bottle
being carefully placed over the moth as it
sat on the tree, the Insect was stupefied
by the fumes immediately, and borne away
in triumph.

Thus the baronet's pleasure came to an
end, and the offending Sylvester was restored
to favour for the time, very much
to the disgust of poor Sir Charles, who
regarded the harmless moth almost in the
light of a personal enemy. Tortrix indeed !
He'd like to know why a Thyatira Baits
shouldn't be as good as a 7br/r^!r any day ?
It was bigger at any rate ; and shower
besides ; and much the handsomest of the
two, in his opinion. It was all that fellow
Sylvester's luck ! Directly he spotted a
wretched, insignificant little moth it must
needs turn out to be one she wanted ;
whereas when any one else found one for

her— even one covered with lovely, round
pink spots — it was only laughed at, and
pronounced as common as mud ! Oh, it
was really too bad.

Notwithstanding this contretemps, however,
the day's events had, on the whole,
been more favourable to him than he
imagined. The incident of the mad dog
had given Imogen the consciousness (one
not disagreeable to any woman) that there
were two men who would not hesitate to
jeopardise themselves on her behalf, and
with either of whom she would be secure
against any bodily harm from which they
could save her. So far both the young
men were on the same footing in her mind.
But then in respect of their conduct towards
the children, Sir Charles had
decidedly the best of it. Sylvester's
behaviour to them seemed to her quite
extraordinary. If he had been a coward
it would have been easy enough to understand
; but of his courage she entertained

no doubt, and for a brave man to act as he
had done was simply Inexplicable to her.

Sir Charles' actions, on the contrary,
had corresponded entirely with her own
ideas of what was right and proper ; and
she felt more than ever sure that it was
impossible not to respect and admire him,
and feel satisfied of his being a person
eminently to be trusted — whatever one
might think of him In other ways.

Thus did she review what had happened
after she got home that evening. Meanwhile
Sylvester, confident from what she
had said that there was no likelihood of
Ethel's being a spectator at the theatricals,
was writing to the Croesus-hogs to inform
them that he should be happy to take the
part that they had offered him.

THE THEATRICALS.

S the time appointed for the
theatricals drew near, the public
curiosity about them rose to a
high pitch. A theatre had been erected
for the occasion In the garden at the back
of the Croesus Hogg's mansion, and was
reported to be quite a marvel of artistic
effect ; the acting was to be followed by
a ball, and the whole entertainment was
to be even more gorgeous and magnificent
than any previous ones that had ever
been given there — which was saying a
good deal. Invitations were sought after

eagerly, and — immense as the house was
It would evidently be crammed. The
rumours as to what the affair was to cost
mentioned sums that seemed Incredible.
There were to be acres of the rarest
flowers — fountains of champagne — icebergs
of Ice — miles of delicate gauze
stuffs to simulate snow and give a cool
effect. What the supper would be like,
no one ventured to conjecture who knew
the inexhaustible fertility of Leblanc's
genius. Both the actors and those before
whom they were to perform — but especially
the former — grew more and more excited
as the eventful night approached.

It being Ethel's whim — as may be remembered
— that no one should discover
the Identity of Miss Carton and Miss
Percival till after the theatricals should
be over, she did not go to rehearse as
the other performers did, but studied her
part at home with a most unwonted
amount of industry.

Her non-appearance naturally caused a
good deal of uneasiness to the Croesus-hogs,
who had never seen this Miss
Percival whom Lady Elise had enlisted,
and knew nothing of her ; but Lady Elise
managed to calm their anxiety — always
finding some good reason or other for
her friend's absence, and assuring them
that she and Miss Percival had gone
through their parts alone together, and
that the latter was progressing famously.

On the day before the performance
there was a final rehearsal which everyone,
without exception, had to attend,
and to this Ethel went. But she kept
away from the rest as much as possible,
did not stay to watch the rehearsal of
the second piece (in which Sylvester
appeared), and departed directly her own
share in the acting was over. Owing
to these precautions, and to the fact
that the costume in which she acted
was one that disguised her thoroughly,

she was successful in preserving her
incognito.

Neither Trevor Owen nor any of the
other people present who knew her, had
any suspicion of who she was ; and it
thus happened also that she never saw
anything of Sylvester, who did not act
in the same piece as herself.

And now at last the important time
had come. The theatre was filling rapidly ;
some of the actors were beginning to feel
qualms of nervousness that made them
wish earnestly the night were over, and
themselves well out of what they had
undertaken ; and the quantity of champagne
that became imperatively necessary
in the green-room was something positively
alarming.

In due course arrived, amongst the
other guests, Mr Rhys and Imogen —
the latter in a rather mixed state of
mind, as she was divided between displeasure
at being there at all, and natural

enjoyment of the party and all the fun
going on. She would like the ball after
the theatricals, as she loved dancing, and
knew that plenty of her regular partners
would be there. The acting might very
possibly be less amusing, she thought ;
but then of course it gained greatly in
interest by the circumstance that two
people whom she knew as well as she
did Ethel and Sylvester were to take part
in it. She had some curiosity, too, to see
how the other actors would acquit themselves,
and what the whole affair would belike,
so that altogether there certainly
seemed to be a reasonable prospect of her
spending a pleasant evening.

But then against these arguments in
favour of her present position, was to beset
the disagreeable thought that she was
being in a way humiliated by receiving
hospitality from people against whom she
was prejudiced as ineffable snobs and outer
barbarians. The mercenary spirit that

admitted such people, merely because they
had money, to associate with ladles and
gentlemen, seemed mean and disgraceful
to her hot-headed youth. To be present
at this entertainment was evidently giving
countenance and encouragement to that
objectionable mercenaries, and therefore
she had an Internal conviction that she
and all the people about her ought to feel
ashamed of themselves. What made the
situation additionally galling, was to recollect
how openly she had declared her
opinions on this subject, and how resolutely
she had made up her mind to avoid making
the acquaintance of these Croesus-hogs.
Yet here she was after all ; and
it was in the power of anyone to twit her
with her sudden change of views, and to
suppose that she too had been affected by
the mercenary considerations that she had
hitherto condemned ! Oh, It was too bad
of papa ever to have made friends with
that old woman ! If only he had kept herat

a distance Instead of being pleasant and
chatty all through that dinner to which he
had taken her down, then Imogen need
never have had anything to do with these
dreadful people whose acquaintance was
such an offence to her juvenile sentiments
of exclusiveness and Indignation at whatever
was mercenary !

It was, however, to be remembered that
her being there was no doing of her own,
and that she would not have come If her
father had not insisted on it. There was
some comfort In this thought, and it enabled
her to feel that her conscience was
sufficiently clear to allow of her getting as
much amusement as she could out of all
the events of the evening. Consequently
there was a rather mischievous twinkle In
her eye that betrayed her readiness to
make the most of any opportunity that
might occur to pick holes in the Croesus-hogs,
their house, arrangements, and
style of doing things. As, on her father's

arm, she proceeded through the corridors
and saloons to the theatre, she unconsciously
expressed her disapproving and
protesting condition by carrying her head
a little further back, and her nose a little
higher in the air than usual.

This unwontedly stiff bearing presented
a ludicrous contrast to that of her father,
who never for a moment dreamt of troubling
himself as to the amount of right
his entertainers might have to their social
position, and was in a thoroughly contented
frame of mind, intending to enjoy
himself, and nodding, smiling, and 
with sociable vigour, to whatever
acquaintances he saw in the throng.

At the entrance to the theatre stood
Sir Charles Dover, watching for the arrival
of the Rhys' as the most interesting event
of the evening to him. His hopes had
been reviving considerably recently, as
at several balls where he had met Imogen
since the day of the adventure with the

mad dog, she had not only danced with
him more than she had done for sometime
past, but had even sat out a dance
with him once or twice. The exaltation
of spirits caused by this amount of condescension
had not been altogether quenched
even by the damping reflection that that
brute Sylvester had had quite as much
favour shown him on the same or other
occasions. Provoking as this was, yet
the baronet derived some comfort from
the thought that any marks of encouragement
vouchsafed to a man whom she
knew to want to marry her, must certainly
mean more than they would do
in any other case ; and whereas, he. Sir
Charles, had spoken out plainly and told
her what he wanted ; he did not for a
moment believe that that other fellow
had done anything of the sort, so that
the chances were she was quite ignorant
of his intentions — if he had any.

Be that as it might, however, Sir Charles

had looked forward cheerfully to the
theatricals. Whilst they lasted, Sylvester
would be out of the way on the stage
at all events, and there would be a chance
for someone else to make the running
without being interfered with ; so Sir
Charles meant to make the most of the
opportunity that night, and had come
early and waited patiently in hopes of
being able to sit next his lady love in
the theatre. Her unusual haughtiness
of demeanour as she entered was a little
alarming at first sight ; but he speedily
regained his equanimity on perceiving
that he, at all events, was not the object
of her displeasure. Her face relaxed
visibly as she recognised him ; he even
fancied that he detected a momentary
gleam of pleasure in it — yet then again
he feared that was but a fancy — probably
merely the effect of some reflection from
the brilliant lights that glittered in all directions,
and no solid source of happiness.



But at any rate she spoke to him quite
graciously enough to encourage him to
follow her to her place, and seat himself
next her tentatively with a casual, 
sort of
air, which would make it easy for him
subsequently to betake himself elsewhere,
if she should show signs of preferring
his room to his company.

No such signs, however, did she show ;
but rather the contrary, for she said as he
took his seat, 'Are you going to establish
yourself there ? That's all right, for I
want some one to help keep an empty place
by us for a lady who won't be here till
presently. I promised I'd do it if I could,
and you'll help, won't you ? '

Certainly,' answered Sir Charles; * shall
I bandage one of my legs with a handkerchief,
stick it up on the empty chair,
and assure anyone who wants to sit there,
that I have a broken leg which must on
no account be let to hang down ? '

VOL. III. G

She laughed.

'No, I don't think you need quite do
that she answered; 'but you must sit as big
as you can, and spread yourself out well.
When you and I and papa all do that, it'll
be odd if we don't manage to hide away a
fourth seat somewhere or other amongst us.'

Very good,' returned Sir Charles.
I'll do my best to assist you, regardless of
the violence that I shall thereby do to my
feelings of justice, though, certainly, you
are about the last person whom I should
have expected to ask such a thing of me.'

Why ? Where's the injustice ? ' she
asked.

To an unknown individual in the
audience,' was his reply. ' Consider that
if you succeed in your unlawfully secretive
purpose, some unfortunate mortal will be
doomed to stand who need not otherwise
have done so. Really, I'm quite surprised
at you ! I did not think you could have
been so unkind.'

This attack upon the morality of her
proceedings was whimsical no doubt, yet
not wholly without reason. But she was
ready with her defence.

Oh,' she rejoined promptly ; ' but then
against the discomfort of that one person,
you must put the advantage that all the
rest of the audience will gain by having
more air. A person less will give them
ever so much extra, you know — what with
the extra space for it to occupy, and the
quantity that another set of lungs would
have consumed, and that will now be at the
disposal of everyone else. Even if one
individual should be a little uncomfortable
in consequence of our conduct, yet a great
many people will be much better off for
it, don't you see ? and of course we should
always consider the good of the greatest
number.'

I'm convinced by your argument,' returned
the baronet, ' and now, please,
show me how to spread myself out and

A Burglary.

look big, in order that I may obey your
behests

It need scarcely be remarked that after
this he felt no hesitation about retaining
the position which he had taken up by
her side.

RECOGNITION.

^^ll^ilHE theatre was crowded, and
numbers of people who could
not be contained within it,
had to content themselves with wandering
about in the o^reat house instead,
and admiring its superb appointments,
size, and magnificence, till the
action should be over and the ball should
begin. But Imogen was successful in
reserving a spare place for Ethel to
occupy, notwithstanding the crowd.

The bell rang, the curtain rose, and the

first play commenced. In this the hero
and nominal heroine were represented
respectively by Guelph Croesus Hogg
and Lady Elise Bolyn. The chief interest
of the piece, however, was by no
means confined to these two ; for the
female part, that afforded most scope for
fine acting, and was altogether of most
real importance to the piece, was that of
a hard, worldly, crafty, scheming adventuress,
whose sole redeeming point lay
in her passionate love for a good-for-nothing
son, who repaid her affection
with cruel ingratitude and baseness. The
part of this sinned-against and sinning
mother had been given to Ethel, who,
stimulated to unaccustomed energy by
the fancy that had seized her to discover
for once what sort of verdict she could
obtain for herself when unsupported by
her heiress-ship, had thrown herself completely
into the character, studied it carefully,
and bestowed on it a good deal

more labour than she was in the habit of
giving to anything. By dint of this,
joined to the strong turn for acting
which she possessed naturally, she
achieved an unmistakable success, stirring
up people's emotions in spite of
themselves, and surprising even the most
blase of the audience into an unexpected
thrill of sympathy and interest. The
host and hostess were besieged with
inquiries as to who Miss Percival was ?
To all of which they could only reply
that they had no personal knowledge of
her, but that they had an ample guarantee
of her being all that was desirable, inasmuch
as she was a friend of the
charming Lady Elise Bolyn, who had
persuaded her to undertake the part, and
made herself entirely responsible for her.

Imogen's affectionate admiration for
her cousin made her rejoice as heartily at
this success as if it had been her own ;
but it cannot be said that she was able

at that moment to give her mind to it
as thoroughly as she would have wished ;
for her attention was being distracted
from her immediate surroundings by a
moth that had got into the theatre, and
was flying round and round the lights,
high up out of reach.

Wherever the insect went, her eyes
followed it involuntarily, and Sir Charles
had no difficulty in guessing what was
passing through her mind, as he saw the
wistful looks she turned upwards from
time to time whilst answering the remarks
of some people she knew who began to
talk to her after the first play was over.
The species and nature of that moth
was evidently the one question of really
paramount interest to her for the time
being, and he took the first opportunity,
when she was not engaged with anyone
else, of answering her unspoken thoughts.

You needn't excite yourself about it,'
he remarked quietly, with the air of one

who thoroughly understands what he is
talking about ; ' it's only a Thyatira
Batis:

The observation was so a propos to
what she was thinking about, that for a
moment she forgot the entomological
Ignorance of the speaker, and the two
moths that he had sent her.

Oh no ! indeed I don't think It can
be,' she said eagerly. * I'm almost sure
the wings are too long and narrow,
and—'

Here she suddenly recollected herself,
and paused, looking a little shy.

'What do you know about Thyatira
Batis ? ' she asked.

'A little bird has told me all about
them,' returned he ; 'I know that they're
mere worthless rubbish. I know what
sort of reception they met with when someone
sent them to a certain young lady, and
what an uncommon fool the sender was
deemed for his pains.'

It was the first time that he had ever
mentioned the subject to her, and though
he tried to appear as if he were only chaffing,
there was a shade of annoyance In his
voice that smote her with compunction.

No, zndeedhQ wasn't,' she said earnestly;
she thought It very kind of him to have
taken so much trouble about catching,
killing, setting, and packing them for her.'

Oh, no doubt she got some gratification
out of the present, for at any rate she
could laugh at his stupidity in having
bothered himself like that about things
that she would only throw into the fire.
It's always amusing to see people show
their ignorance ! '

She didn't throw them Into the fire,'
said Imogen, with a slight blush.

Well, into the waste-paper basket then,'
returned he.

She didn't throw them into the wastepaper
basket either.'

I suppose the fact Is that by this time

she doesn't the least know what she did
do with them,' observed he.

Yes, she does.'

What was it then ? '

Imogen did not answer for a moment,
and then said, —

Oh, look ! there's the moth has found
his way to get out at last.'

So he has. Miss Rhys, are you going
to tell me what you did with that brace of
moths you got by post one fine day ? '

Why — what did you suppose when
you sent them would be done with
them ? ' replied she, hesitating a little in
her answer, and feeling as if she were
called upon to make the best of a thing
which she ought perhaps to be ashamed
of.

There had seemed to me a possibility
that they might be thought acceptable
and kept.'

Well, and so they were kept. One
generally does keep a thing that someone

has had a lot of bother about getting for
one ; doesn't one ? '

That his present should have been
treated with this amount of respect was
a blissful and unexpected hearing to Sir
Charles ; but before he could reply, the
conversation was interrupted by the advent
of Ethel, who having resumed an
ordinary evening costume and come round
unnoticed to the front of the theatre, had
made her way to the Rhys' to take possession
of the seat they had reserved for
her. Now that the object for which she
had for once chosen to exert herself was
accomplished, she was relapsing speedily
into her normal condition of indolence.

The admiring comments upon Miss Percival's
action which she heard on all sides
as she passed through the crowd, assured
her of having achieved a success ; and she
would have been more than human if she
had not felt a great and genuine gratification
at the sensation which she perceived

she had been able to create as an unknown
individual. Yet all the time there seemed
to be present in her mind a consciousness
of ' Le sett ne v ant pas la chandelle' In
her secret soul she doubted whether the
satisfaction were enough to repay the
trouble it had cost her to earn it ; whether
the best part of the whole affair were not
the having got it over ; and whether it
could ever be worth while to do anything
one was not absolutely obliged to do.

Then the second play began. The
Heroine of this was a sighing, love-lorn
damsel who was impersonated by Guinevere
Croesus Hogg. The part was one for
which she was in no wise well adapted,
either by appearance or natural talent,
inasmuch as she was a large-boned, buxom,
jovial-looking, young woman who excelled
in broad comedy. But as few people have
the sense to limit themselves to what they
understand and can do, therefore it had
come to pass that nothing would please

her save trying her hand at a highly sentimental
and romantic part. That sort of
thing should, in her opinion, be played
with much turning-up of the eyes, sighing,
shaking of the head, and languishing ; and
to this conception of the part she kept
true pretty steadily, except once or twice
when she forgot herself for an instant and
indulged in some familiar gesture of the
broadly comic kind — even going so far on
one occasion as to give a prolonged and
ostentatious wink at her lover !

Altogether, therefore, her representation
of the heroine was a somewhat incongruous
one, both ideally and in appearance.
The hero, her lover, was played by Trevor
Owen. His barristers practice had given
him enough self-confidence, facial control,
and power of pretending to be in earnest
when he was not, to make him a fair
mediocre actor, though he had not
got it in him ever to rise higher than that
in the histrionic line. The theatrical

manager had perceived that with two
leading performers of this calibre, it was
evidently prudent that there should be
some one strong in the caste supporting
them, so as to cause any little shortcomings
that might occur in the chief
parts to be overlooked ; consequently,
Lady George Quaver, with her magnificent
voice, had been secured for one
of the parts which had a song in it ; and
Mr Sylvester — who was reputed a first-rate
actor, quite as good as a professional
according to some people — was to represent
the villain of the piece. On this
individual much of the interest centred ;
amongst other things it fell to his lotto
be mortally offended by the heroine in
the first act, and to plan out a scheme
of desperate vengeance, for the execution
of which it was necessary in a subsequent
act that he should join a gang of
poachers, and pretend to be one of themselves.
At this point, in order the more

thoroughly to play his part, he rashly assumed
just the same coarse speech, accent,
and tone of a man belonging to the lower
orders, as he had previously done in committing
the burglary. Had he had an
idea of the possibility of Ethel's presence,
he would, of course, never have been
guilty of such Imprudence ; but he believed
himself to have ascertained with certainty
that she would not be there, and imagined,
therefore, that he might, with perfect
safety, do what he liked to heighten the
effect of his acting, and display his talents
more fully.

At his earlier appearances in the play,
Ethel watched him without any particular
feeling of recognition, beyond a vague
idea that she had heard his voice, or one
very like it, somewhere or other before ;
but when he came on disguised as a
poacher, and began to speak in his disguised
voice, it was a very different
matter. For a minute or so she listened

to him with a queer, nightmare sort of
sensation, wondering what disagreeable
association had suddenly begun to press
upon her memory, and clamour importunately
to be given a definite form and
name. Then all at once the truth flashed
upon her, and she knew where she had
seen that actor before. Voice, manner,
accent, hand with a finger missing — the
part he was playing of a ruffian to be
dreaded — all recalled to mind her burglar
exactly, and she felt, beyond all possibility
of doubt, that the very man himself was
there before her !

Full of horror and astonishment at this
discovery, she was just about to impart it
to Imogen, who was sitting next her, when
she suddenly recollected the rumours she
had heard in relation to her cousin and
Mr Sylvester, and checked herself. What
if there should be any foundation for those
rumours ? What if her cousin's affections
were really set upon this man ? Terrible as

VOL. III. H

such a misfortune would be, Ethel could
not shut her eyes to its being a possible
contingency, and therefore it behoved her
to act with caution, so that in case of
the worst, Imogen's feelings should be
saved as much as might be. Under the
circumstances, to blurt out to her the
appalling truth concerning Sylvester in a
public place like this, would be a most
brutal and injudicious proceeding she
thought, and the very last thing that
ought to be done !

It has been already said that Imogen's
romantic attachment to Ethel was a onesided
affair, and that the latter had no
idea of its existence. But though she did
not reciprocate an affection of which she
was ignorant, she nevertheless liked her
cousin much, and had a very friendly feeling
for her, and this — joined to her natural
kindliness of disposition — made it impossible
for her to contemplate the distress
that seemed to her to be but too probably

awaiting the girl, without taking it greatly
to heart. She would have given worlds to
be sure that Sylvester was nothing to
Imogen. Certain knowledge of any kind
as to how matters stood between the two
would be of the utmost assistance in determining
her as to what steps she should
take in the present emergency. She felt
it was most important to her to know
whether Imogen liked him or not, and yet,
unluckily, the state of her cousin's affections
was a matter as to which she was
profoundly ignorant. She knew that
Sylvester had been a good deal in her
company of late, and that people said
something was to come of it — and that
was all she did know ; whether or not he
had really succeeded in making any impression
she had not an idea. Even Sir
Charles himself (with the recent-acquired
consolation of knowing that his Thyatira
Batis had not been thrown away) was not
at that moment more anxious as to what

might be to be read in Imogen's heart,
than was Ethel, as she sat watching the
performance. Though outwardly as quiet
and placid as usual, she was inwardly more
worried than any one would have supposed
it possible for her tranquil nature to be, as
she perplexed herself to no purpose, in
endeavouring to discover what she ought
to do.

Perhaps she could find out something to
give her a clue, even at this eleventh hour,
to what she was so anxious to know.
With that view she addressed fishing
questions as to Imogen's opinions regarding
the merits of the various performers,
and especially of Sylvester's. But there
was nothing in the smallest degree definite
or satisfactory to be arrived at by that
means. Then she watched her cousin
narrowly to see if she could detect any
special signs of interest when he was on
the stage. But that attempt was as unsuccessful
as the other. So Ethel fell back

in despair on her memory for assistance —
trying to recall whatever she had ever
heard or seen that could guide her to the
information she wanted. The more she
reflected upon the subject, the more inclined
she became to believe that her
cousin really did care about the man.
Various mere trifles that she remembered,
assumed unnaturally large proportions in
her present state of anxiety, and appeared
significant circumstances. Words,
tones, looks, that had been absolutely
unmeaning were distorted by her fear into
the very shape which she dreaded their
wearing. The more horrible did it appear
to suppose that Imogen could have given
him her heart, so much the more probable
did it appear also. And in her distress
at the possibility of such a thing, she did
not notice how very slight was the basis
on which she was founding her conjecture.
Then there was another question also to
be considered in regard to this business

and that was : who ought first to be told
of the unpleasant discovery that she had
made ? there could be no doubt that she
ought to announce it without loss of time,
and she must make up her mind to whom
the announcement was to be made. Perhaps
to one of her uncles, as being her
nearest relatives ; or perhaps to Mr Trevor
Owen, who had appeared for her when the
case had been tried ? She had a kind of
idea that it was due to society that it
should be immediately put upon its guard
against the villain in its midst, and that
therefore she ought to reveal his true
nature there and then.

But then there was Imogen to be considered.
Should she keep silence till she
could have an opportunity for seeing the
girl alone, and making a grand, final effort
to find out whether or no Sylvester had
contrived to insinuate himself into her
affections ? If not, then everything would
be easy enough. But supposing — miserable

possibility that it was ! — supposing the
contrary, and that she should have been
so unfortunate as to fall in love with him,
what would Ethel do then ? Would there
not be laid upon her the direful necessity
of breaking to Imogen that she had set
her heart upon a scoundrel ? and would
not that be as odious a task as could easily
be imagined ?

It seemed to Ethel that a terrible
calamity was about, through her means,
to descend upon her cousin ; and then she
began endeavouring to think of some way
of mitigating it. If only Ethel could
accomplish that, she felt that she would
willingly surrender the punishment of the
man who had robbed her, and all chance
of ever recovering her precious jewels
again also. Would it soften the blow, she
wondered, if she were to offer Imogen tolet
him have time to get out of England
before she gave any information against
him ? What a pity it was that she could

not conscientiously let the whole matter
alone and say nothing about it ! The loss
of the jewels was but a trifling ill compared
to these bothers and perplexities that now
distracted her and from which she saw no
escape.

But there was no blinking the fact that
it was her clear duty to unmask this
detestable thief and hypocrite who enjoyed
public esteem and confidence ; who
passed everywhere for an honest, upright,
trustworthy man ; and whose employers
had placed him in a position given only
to people of the strictest integrity. Besides,
it would be no true kindness tolet
Imogen remain in ignorance of his
real character and be perhaps led on to
love him in course of time even if she
did not do so already.

No ! there was evidently no possibility
of shirking the impending fuss and unpleasantness
with a clear conscience —
which was just the thing that sometimes

made it so awkward to have a conscience
at all, as Ethel could not help reflecting
with a quaint, half-humorous ruefulness.
Ah ! why had she not stuck to her
favourite policy of masterly inaction, she
thought dolefully. Then she would never
have got mixed up with these theatricals
which had first interfered with the tranquillity
she loved by stirring her up to
work hard at learning her part, and
now, by revealing to her who Sylvester
was, threatened to lead her into a fresh
and far more disagreeable state of commotion.
It would have been so much
better to have let the acting alone altogether
!

ETHEL AND SYLVESTER.

The was still in this unsettled
state of mind, and unable to
resolve what she had better do,
when the acting came to an end, and a
general move was made to leave the
theatre, and go back to the house, where
dancing was now to take place. Mr Rhys
offered his arm to his niece to conduct her
to the ball-rooms, and Sir Charles followed
with Imogen, whose hand he had secured
for the first dance.

As they traversed the garden between
the theatre and the mansion, a sudden

impulse moved Ethel, whose habitual
placidity was not so imperturbable as not
to be now and then disturbed by some
unexpected freak of fancy. She would
stand face to face with Sylvester herself —
would speak once more with this villain
whom she had had to do with before in
such a very different situation, and whom
it was impossible to think of without aversion.
Her uncle knew the man, and he
should help her to carry out her intention.

You know Mr Sylvester pretty well,
don't you, Uncle Rhys V she said. ' What
sort of a person do you consider him
to be ? '

Sylvester — eh ? ' returned Mr Rhys ;
oh, he's a very clever, go-ahead, young
fellow, in my opinion. Just the sort of
man who doesn't do a thing at all, unless
he does it well. He'll always be either
first or nowhere. Didn't he act capitally
to-night ? '

Yes, no doubt he did,' answered Ethel.

But I've never been introduced to him,
and I'm curious as to what he's like when
one talks to him. So I want you to Introduce
him to me by-and-by, when he comes
round from the stage in the guise of an
ordinary mortal again. Will you ? '

'Introduce him to you?' replied her
uncle ; ' be delighted to, if you'll give mea
chance of doing it ; but mostly there's
no getting near you young ladles when
once you begin dancing — it's one partner
after another all night long — I'm sure when
I take Imogen to a ball, I hardly ever set
eyes on her from the time we get into the
room tin the time we leave It. 'Pon my
word, there she is gone off to dance with
Sir Charles already ! What the skin of her
toes can be made of, I can't think — mine
would be all blisters with a quarter the
work, I know.'

Ah ! but then I'm older and more sedate
then she is,' returned Ethel, laughing, ' and
you may rely that I will be within reach

presently for you to introduce me to Mr
Sylvester. However, I must go now, for
I am engaged for this dance, and here's
my partner coming to fetch me.'

Sylvester was, on that night, in a moody,
unhappy frame of mind, which had recently
often affected him, and was out of spirits
notwithstanding the numerous congratulations
and compliments he received on his
acting. Under any circumstances, he
would have done that well, for in whatever
he undertook he despised mediocrity and
failure as unworthy of him, and was certain
to have been successful even without the
extra stimulus which Imogen's presence
had supplied on the present occasion — the
stimulus of desiring to show her what he
could do, and make her think well of him
.if possible.

What tormented and depressed him was

this. Whilst an ardent, intense desire to

please her was more and more taking

possession of him, at the same time he

felt also a constantly Increasing doubt as
to whether It was within the bounds of
possibility that he should ever be able
to do so. He knew that he had talent and
strength for her to admire — but what
was the good of that If she were perverse
enough to prefer virtue — which article it
was certainly not In his power to offer ?
That she did prefer virtue — that her
nature was one that was not to be
contented without It — was a conviction
which impressed Itself more and more
strongly on his mind every time he saw
her, and vexed him almost past bearing.
It must be that that made her want to
help other people, be they who they
might, and made her take to heart Injustice
and wrong of all kinds. Hence
It was that she had been so anxious to
clear Richard Richards from the false
accusation brought against him — on which
subject she had discoursed so much that
Sylvester, In his mad longing to please

her, had once thought wildly even whether
he would not sacrifice himself for her contentment
by making known who the real
culprit was. The idea had been promptly
dismissed as preposterous and nothing had
come of it ; yet when not long afterwards
he had heard her quote her favourite —

Tasks in hours of insight willed,
May be through hours of gloom fulfilled

he had been conscious of a passing wonder
whether she would have regarded as an
hour of insight,' the romantic possibility
of self-condemnation that had crossed his
brain for a moment She had subjugated
him so completely that he felt as if he
could hardly oppose her will in anything,
and as if it were even imperatively
necessary for him to conform himself to
whatever standard of morality pleased her.
But how was that possible unless he
could undo the past, and alter his whole
self? As George Eliot says, —

You can't turn curds to milk again,
Nor now, by wishing, back to then

And yet was there not, perhaps, some
remote chance that he might even yet
become such as she would approve of,
if only he could have her presence always
with him ?

When the acting was over and he had
changed his things, he went to the ballrooms
and looked round for her who
was to him the only one human being
worth considering besides himself in the
world. He wanted to have the bliss of
dancing with her again and to be able,
for that brief space at least, to give himself
up to the present enjoyment and
forget all irritating subjects. Forcing
his way with difficulty from one to another
of the crowded rooms he searched for
her for some time in vain. At last, however,
he spied her sitting in a small,
flower-decked boudoir alone with Sir
Charles Dover, with whom she appeared

to be carrying on a very Interesting
conversation. Neither of them saw Sylvester,
who watched them for a minute
full of angry disappointment at finding
her thus engaged, and debated Whether
to go and interrupt the tete-astute or not.
Jealousy prompted him to do so ; but he
was withheld by the melancholy forebodings
that filled him of the futility of
his passion. Supposing he chose to look
upon himself as the representative of
talent, then Sir Charles might fairly be
considered to be that of virtue. And
if she would persist In liking virtue best,
what chance of success was there for
talent if it could not compass the other
attribute also ?

Anyhow he would In no wise advance
his cause by disturbing her at present,
and he must put off till later in the evening
the dance with her on which his heart
was set. Therefore he retired from the
room noiselessly, and, retracing his steps

VOL. Ti. I

to the place where he had seen that Mr
Rhys was standing, stationed himself In
the vicinity of that gentleman to await her
re-appearance.

Here he was quickly perceived by
Ethel. She was still of the same mind
about desiring to have an Interview with
him, in spite of the horror and almost
fear with which he had Inspired her. He
certainly could not do her any harm herein
the midst of this throng of people ; and
it was now a favourable opportunity for
carrying out her plan. So she pointed
him out to her uncle, and suggested that
the latter should at once perform the promised
introduction.

Mr Rhys bustled off immediately to
execute her wishes.

Come along, Sylvester,* he said. ' I
see you're not dancing, and I want to introduce
you to a partner. One, too, who'll
be envied you by half the men in the
room. Lucky fellow, you are, that's she

taken a fancy to dance with you ! You
know her well enough by name ; everyone
does that, I think, since she had half her
jewels stolen when she was staying with
me last September. It's my niece, Miss
Carton.'

No more unwelcome name could possibly
have passed Mr Rhys' lips.

Miss Carton ! ' exclaimed Sylvester,
with a feeling of overwhelming and unpleasant
surprise. * Why, I fancied she
did not know the Croesus Hoggs, and
would certainly not be here to-night.'

Oh dear no ! — how can you have made
such a mistake ? ' replied Mr Rhys genially ;
there she's been this ever so long, admiring
your acting like all the rest of us,
and declaring it to be capital. Indeed,
there couldn't be two opinions about
that. However, come along, and be introduced
— there she is sitting by the pillar
of yellow roses.'

There was no escaping the ordeal. Ashe

was led up towards Ethel, Sylvester
swiftly reviewed his acting of the poacher
an hour or so ago, and compared it with
his performance of the burglar at Llwyn-
yr-all last September. The entire similarity
of the two assumptions of character
made him shiver, and he hardly ventured
to hope that she could have failed to know
him again ; still, there was just a chance
of it, for it was wonderful how unobservant
some people were. But this hope
was destroyed when he reached her, and
asked her to dance. In her unwontedly
excited condition of mind, she was unable
wholly to control the expression of her
face ; and though outsiders, who had no
clue to its meaning would not have been
able to read what was written there, yet
in his eyes recognition of him, and hostility
were visible too plainly to be mistaken.


What was to come next ? he wondered,
internally. Truly their relative positions

were completely reversed from what they
had been at his former meeting with her.
Then he had had the upper hand, but
now it was her turn to dictate to him.
She could talk to him, dance with him,
keep him at her side, do with him exactly
as she chose ; he dared not resist or try
to slip away lest she should call out stop
thief! and have him arrested on the spot.

She accepted his invitation to dance,
and bowing politely, he presented his arm
to lead her away just as he might have
done to any other lady in the room. It
was a strange sensation to her to realise
that this was the same person who had
put her in fear of her life a few months
before ; and to think that out of all the
crowd of people around, she alone knew
the villainy of which this seemingly respectable
and worthy young gentleman
was capable ; she alone knew how dangerous
a monster was in the midst of them,
in an innocent, fleecy covering to make

him look like the rest of the flock. She
felt an Involuntary thrill as she laid her
hand on the proffered coat sleeve, and
for the moment almost repented of her
whim to be introduced to him. What
she wanted or expected to gain thereby
she would have been puzzled to say exactly.
Had she been questioned on the
matter she would probably have replied
that she had fancied, perhaps, she might
find it easier to settle what to do, when
she had some personal knowledge of what
he was like.

The fact was she had been moved
partly by curiosity, partly by sudden
caprice, and partly by a peculiarity to
which some natures are liable, and which,
when a situation occurs so extraordinary
as to render It impossible to discover any
guiding landmarks of precedent, will sometimes
make even the most well regulated,
Mrs-Grundy-ridden of females give herself
up recklessly to follow the fancy of

the moment, and resolve, as it were, to
have a sudden frolic for once, and see
what comes of it. But an idea of that
kind never occurred to Sylvester, who,
little used to feminine caprices, forgot
to take their likelihood into account, and
was consequently extremely puzzled as
to what could possibly be Ethel's object
in her present proceeding.

He felt that she was master of the
situation entirely, and that he had no
choice but to obey her pleasure, and
wait and see what she intended to do.
But what that would be he was burning
to know.

In one respect she was out in her
calculations, however. That he was sure
to fear her recognising him she was quite
aware ; but she did not mean to let him
know that she had really done so just
yet, as she did not want him to be
frightened away before she could determine
her plan of action, and choose when

to have him arrested. But she had forgotten
the possibility of her face betraying
her, and therefore he had the advantage
of a fuller knowledge of how matters stood
between them than she had reckoned on.

It was not dancing with him, but conversation
that she desired ; so after taking
one short turn In the valse that had just
commenced, she declared it was too full
for there to be any satisfaction in attempting
to dance then, and that, as she was
a little tired, she should prefer finding a
cool place to sit down in. Accordingly,
Sylvester obediently took her to one of
the smaller rooms. Here there was an
alcove, in which was a window, with a
luxuriously - cushioned settee, affording
just room for two people to sit down
comfortably. The superb, delicately-scented
flowers surrounding It were
stirred lightly by the soft night breeze
coming In through the open window, on
the sill of which stood a large block of

ice, cooling every breath of air as It entered
; and In this comfortable nook the
oddly-matched pair — mutually fearing and
detesting one another — seated themselves
as though on the best of terms together,
and were commented on by an Irreverent
Eton boy as ' a couple of beggars going
to spoon ; don't disturb the poor coves.'

They had but just sat down when Sir
Charles and Imogen came In on their
way to the ball-room and caught sight
of them. There was a new look of
elation and hope In Sir Charles' face,
as though he saw a prospect of great
happiness very near at hand, which gave
Sylvester a sharp pain at heart. Of
course, now that all was about to be
revealed, and he was going to be arrested
for robbery, there would be no
more chance for him with Imogen, he
thought ; but It was none the less bitter
to have to witness the triumph of someone
else, and to reflect that talent had

been beaten by virtue upon equal terms,
and even before the former had been
handicapped by the bringing to light of its
past iniquities. And yet he loved her so !
No one could love her better, he felt sure.
And his love grew yet fiercer and more
painful now that prison walls seemed about
to shut him out from her hopelessly.

'So you two have actually made acquaintance
at last! ' cried Imogen, stopping
for a moment, and coming towards the
couple in the window-seat. ' And you've
accomplished it without my assistance
after all! Well, I'm delighted the spell
has been broken, for I really began to
think that there must be a fate about
the way in which I invariably failed to
bring you together. But do you mean
to say your going to sit still during the
Manila? We aren't at any rate, so
good-bye for the present.'

And so saying she and her cavalier
passed swiftly on to join the dancers.

Certainly it is no fault of hers that
we have not met before, for she was
very anxious to introduce us to one
another, I know, only there was always
something or other in the way,' began
Ethel, with a vague idea that it would
be a good thing to lead the conversation
to the subject of Imogen as a preliminary
to finding out something about the state
of affairs existing between her cousin and
Sylvester.

The latter hesitated for a moment. He
was quite positive of Miss Carton's having
recognised him ; there were no witnesses,
so that whatever admission he might now
make would not tell against him hereafter
in a court of justice, as it would be easy
to deny it all then if needs be ; and he
was consumed with anxiety to know what
plan she had in her mind in regard to his
fate. What, therefore, was the good of
wasting time in mere empty fencing ?

It pleases you to speak as though this

were our first meeting, Miss Carton,' said
he, ' and all the better for me if it were
so indeed ! Yet I can hardly believe that
the one occasion when we met before has
escaped your memory so readily.'

Ethel was somewhat taken aback at
this frankness, and it needed all her self-control
to prevent her betraying her discomposure
to her antagonist.

You are right ; I have not forgotten
it,' she replied calmly. * But how did you
know that I had recognised you ? '

By your face,' he answered ; ' I read
it there the moment you looked at me
when your uncle introduced us ; but of
course I knew you could hardly help doing
it after seeing me play that cursed poaching
part just now, which you may be very
sure I would not have done unless I had
believed your absence a matter of certainty.
And so now that we can speak openly,
will you condescend to tell me what you
intend to do ? '

What do you expect that I should do ? '
she inquired with some haughtiness.

Give me up to^he police.'

You are perfectly correct in your supposition.'


He laughed bitterly.

And perhaps also you will be so
gracious as to inform me how many more
minutes of liberty you intend that I should
enjoy first ? ' he inquired.

Ethel now fully realised the mistake
she had made in letting her recognition
of him be apparent. Her liberty of action
was to some extent fettered by this premature
showing of her hand. No doubt
he would hurry off and make his escape
immediately if she let him leave her before
she had given him into custody ; therefore
she was no longer free to do as she had
originally intended, and to postpone his
denunciation till such time as it should
be most convenient to herself.

Ah, if only she could know whether or not

there was any kind of understanding or affection
subsisting between him and Imogen!
She would see if she could not discover
something then and there by questioning
him as to this most important matter.

That depends she returned cautiously ;
of course I do not wish to behave with
any needless harshness. It has been
rumoured that — that — in short that you
have an affection for Miss Rhys, and it
occurred to me that in that case it would
be kinder on my part to endeavour to
spare the feelings of both you and herby
contriving so that your arrest should
not take place under her very eyes. Perhaps,
however, the rumour to which I
allude is false ? '

Though despairing, miserable, half-maddened
by the utter downfall of all
his hopes that was impending, he felt no
wish to deny or seem ashamed of his
adoration for Imogen. Rather it gave
him a sudden sense of pleasure to be able

to acknowledge what bore testimony to
her supreme excellence and power.

No, it is not^l^^he replied, almost defiantly
; * I care more for her than for the
whole of the rest of the world together.'

Ethel was surprised and a little bit
moved at this abrupt and evidently genuine
confession of love ; it was impossible
not to feel some slight compassion for the
man who had been driven to make it.

Does my cousin know this ?' she said,
speaking somewhat more gently than
before.

No ; I have never told her of it.'

Do you think it likely that she suspects
it, though .^ ' continued Ethel, anxious
to profit as much as she could by his
unexpectedly confidential humour ; ' or
should you say there was any disposition on
her part to reciprocate your attachment ? '

How can I tell ? But no, I fear not.'
He paused. Never before had he
spoken to another person of that love which

was the one thing good, true, and honest
about him. Now that he had begun to do
so, when already excited and overwrought
both by the discovery of his fatal secret,
and also by the conviction that Imogen
was being won by his rival, the violence
of repressed emotion at last let loose,
broke down his habitual self-control, and
carried him on in spite of himself ; he
forgot the position in which he stood, the
ruin that was threatening him, and felt
only an unconquerable impulse to try
for once in his life to impart to a second
person something of the real heart and
soul within him.

Ethel's knowledge of his being a criminal
made it easier to unbosom himself to her
than to anyone else ; and after hesitating
for a moment he went on again, speaking
with a passionate intensity of feeling that
made his voice tremble in spite of all he
could do to control it, and that fairly
startled his hearer.

I said that I feared I was nothing to
her. Yet why should I fear it, seeing
things are as they are ? You at least,
knowing what you do, are able to
perceive that hidden incompatibility between
her and me which has been a
barrier rising up again and again to
hinder me from paying court to her as
another man might have done. Ah ! the
barrier will not be a hidden one much
longer. She, and the whole world too,
must see it plainly the instant that it
pleases you to draw back the veil now
concealing it. But / have known it
always. Look at the utter dissimilarity
between her nature and mine — she, good
and innocent, with her heart set on being
of use in the world, full of all kinds of
noble and elevated aims (or what the
world calls such at any rate), and thinking
that every fellow-creature has a claim
upon her ; whereas I — ! Why, before I
knew her, I neither cared for nor believed

VOL. III. K

in any goodness at all. And though now
I have grown so to love her that I can
no longer remain wholly indifferent to or
incredulous about anything that she holds
in honour — anything that is inseparable
from herself — yet still I cannot change my
nature, I cannot cancel the past, I cannot
make myself such as she approves. What
chance then is there that she would care
for me if she knew what I really am ?
I could never hope for such happiness —
never — never ! '

It was not in Ethel to listen to this outburst
of long-pent-up strong love and
misery finding vent in words at last, without
being touched by it. The power
which the man possessed came out in his
great emotion to its full extent, and she,
like Imogen, became vaguely aware that
there was something singular about him,
and that either to attract or to repel he
had a faculty that was peculiar to himself.
Her compassion was aroused for his sufferings,

and tended to mitigate the extreme
aversion she had felt for him at first.
However evil he might be he was surely
not irredeemable ; and her immediate instinct
was to help him by trying to turn
his mind in the direction where she knew
she would herself find hope and comfort in
whatever trouble might come upon her.

It is true that you cannot alter the
past,' she said, speaking very gently and
pityingly ; ' but yet you can alter yourself, if
you will. Do you not know how gracious
our Father is to all who turn, and repent
of the evil they have done ? Have you
not any kind of religion or religious faith
at all ? '

On no lesser occasion could she have
spoken thus openly about religion to a
stranger. But ordinary habits both of
thought and speech are sometimes discarded
on great emergencies, and the
man's startling and terrible earnestness
made her feel instinctively the necessity of

being utterly real just then — of saying out
the true thing within her, be It what It
might. As for Sylvester, having begun to
come out of his shell he could not Immediately
force himself back to It again, for
he experienced a strange sense of relief
in thus revealing himself for once as he
really was to another person. He replied
with the same abrupt straightforwardness
as before : —

Some time ago I should have answered
No ! " to that question unhesitatingly ;
but now I am less positive about it than I
was. Possibly some stray glimmers of
light may have reached me by means of
your cousin — though whether, If so, they
came from or through her I cannot say.
She may have been the sun whence they
Issued, or else perchance but the pane of
glass that admitted them Into a dark room
how can I tell ? '

Ethel leant her head upon her hand and
mused. The duty of unmasking Sylvester

had at first seemed specially hateful to heron
account of Imogen only ; but now she
was beginning to dislike It on his own account
also. The unreserve with which he
had shown her what was passing In his
mind had not resulted from any deep laid
plan for appealing to her feelings ; he had,
for the moment, forgotten himself too entirely
to have any thought of that kind.
Yet such an appeal, no doubt, was the
effect that his outspokenness produced
upon her. It would have taken a far
harder heart than that of Ethel to listen to
him unmoved ; and the more Interested
in him she became, the harder she found
it to decide upon what course of action to
pursue. She had an Inkling that his nature
was one of those that need much sorrow to
make them learn — to whom the purification
of great suffering Is Indispensable ;
yet for all that she would rather it should
be Imposed upon him by means of anyone
else than her. It was her bounden

duty to proclaim what she had discovered
in order that the world might be on its
guard against the impostor, and that the
innocent might be saved from unjust suspicion.
Then this man would be put in
prison — where he would be safe from
further temptations, where he would have
time for repentance, where it would be impossible
for him to hold any intercourse
with Imogen. Yet, obviously desirable
and advantageous as all these results of
his imprisonment would be, still Ethel felt
a growing repugnance to speak the word
that was to bring them about.

I am so sorry for you, so very very
sorry,' she was beginning, when her speech
was cut short by a sudden and alarming
interruption which caused all other considerations
to be merged in one of paramount
and urgent importance to both of
them — i.e., the securing of their immediate
personal safety.

CHAPTER IX.

AMONGST FLAMES.

SUDDEN cessation of the musica
hasty trampling of feet, and
an outcry of ' Fire, fire ! ' — this
was what caused Ethel to stop abruptly in
the midst of what she had begun to say,
whilst she and her companion looked at
each other in horror. Then they started up
with one accord and hurried to a small
door of the room they were in.

A great square staircase with a gallery
surrounding it occupied a large portion of
the middle of the house, and the door to
which they now hurried opened immediately

on to this gallery, and was, therefore,
the most direct way of escape from
the house. But on reaching the door they
found it impossible to get any further. All
egress from the room where they were,
in the direction of the gallery at all events,
was cut off by a dense mass of frightened,
struggling men and women, who blocked
up the passage outside In wild confusion.

The first alarm has made every one
anxious to get at once to the front staircase,
and there is a general, simultaneous
rush made towards it throughout every
room on the first floor. But speedily there
is a check at every doorway, where the
outpouring stream Is met by another one
composed of those who got first to the
staircase, and have there discovered the
vanity of hoping to escape in that direction.
For, alas ! the lower part of the
grand staircase is the very spot where the
fire has broken out, and it is spreading
rapidly up the sides by means of the gauze

decorations of the bannisters. Going down
the stairs, therefore, Is simply rushing Into
the middle of flames ; and It Is evident
that the gallery running round the top will
shortly be also on fire. A most dangerous
place, consequently. Is that gallery which
was just now struggled for so eagerly, and
one to be by all means avoided.

What Is to be done ? Surely there Is a
back staircase to have recourse to — no
house of this size can be without that convenience
— who knows where It Is ?

Yes, there is a back stairs, and a good
many of the guests know the way to It.
Unluckily, It Is somewhat out of the way,
and the approach to It Is narrow and Inconvenient
; still, It means safety at this
moment, and thither does the stream flow
with such speed as is attainable by a closely-packed,
terrified mob of people, all shoving
and struggling to get to the front, and
moving along a tortuous corridor where
every doorway brings fresh contributions

of panic-struck human beings in deadly
peril. For time is everything, and those
who are last will inevitably be lost. The
back stairs are not broad, and the crowd can
only empty itself off thereby at a pitifully
slow rate ; and meanwhile the ravening
flames will not wait ; but, aided by all
kinds of decorative fall-alls of thin materials,
come leaping up the front stairs in fearful
haste. Red tongues begin to shoot out
through the bannisters into the gallery,
which has not yet had nearly time to get
cleared of the people, who rushed thither
before the seat of the fire was known. Ill
is it now for some of those who were first in
that rush. The solid mass of humanity pressing
towards the other staircase is a barrier
keeping them prisoners in the fatal gallery,
and it is hard to recoil far enough to keep
out of the way of these cruel fiery tongues
that leap higher and nearer at every
minute. Ah ! one of them touches the dress
of a girl, and in a moment she is in a

blaze ; for a ball dress is of all things most
inflammable. Instinctively turning to her
fellow-creatures for protection in her mortal
agony, she tries to press yet closer to them,
and yet further away from the dreadful
enemy, without remembering that in her
present flaming condition, contact with her
means death to all clad in thin dresses, and
that she is now to be regarded as a fresh
centre of danger — as a torch to spread the
conflagration wherever she goes. But if
she has forgotten this, others have not ;
and from out of the frantic, shrieking
crowd are extended hands, fans, opera-hats,
bouquets, anything that can be laid
hold of, to keep her at a distance. Still,
she will not be repulsed, and continues
trying to approach ; so the end of it is
that a strong arm in a coat (since cloth
does not catch fire easily) advances from out
of the midst of the people nearest her, and
gives one violent push that precipitates the
poor, screaming girl headlong downstairs

into the fiery gulf below. Inhuman and
horrible as the act may seem, is it not
perhaps the only thing to do ? It is one
life against many ; to save her was impossible,
and she had at all hazards to be
kept away from this crowd full of women
in tulles, gauzes, and muslins. Ah, well !
her sufferings are over by now ; but for us
who remain — what is in store for us ?
Shall we escape or not ?

How terribly fast the red tongues advance,
gaining and spreading in all
directions each moment ! And how miserably
slow is the rate of exit by the
back stairs ! Is there no other outlet ?
no other chance of getting away from
being burnt to death ? There are the
windows, it is true. But the rooms of
this magnificent dwelling are so lofty that
the distance to the ground Is far too great
to jump ; and the balconies are boarded In
to-night, so that the pillars are not available
as a means of descent even for those

who can climb. Confused, shrieking,
gasping, mad with terror, the people
fight, jostle, and" push almost without
knowing that they are doing so ; and
many of the weaker ones, thrown down
and trampled under foot, find in suffocation
an escape from the fiery death that
they are dreading. And all the time the
foe goes on gaining and gaining with the
swiftness of the wind, has swallowed up
some more tulle - attired victims, and is
beginning with fierce triumph to enter
one or two of the rooms.

But it is time to go back to Sylvester
and Ethel, whom we left when the first
alarm had reached them, and they had
run to one of the doors leading out of
the apartment where they were sitting.
As soon as Sylvester saw what was taking
place, and that the passage was completely
choked up, he exclaimed, —

The private way to the theatre ! Few
people know of it, so it's sure to be free

from crowd. If the fire hasn't touched It
yet we can get out by that ! '

I didn't know there was such a way,'
she returned ; ' where is It ? '

Follow me was his answer, as he
hastened to a door on the opposite side of
the room. This led to a small, winding
side-passage, through which they reached
the conservatory ; and on getting there,
they found that there was no one In it, and
that It was still clear from fire.

When the theatre in the garden had been
erected, Guelph Croesus Hogg had taken It
Into his head that he should like to have a
private way of his own for going to and fro
between the house and stage. Therefore,
some planks had been thrown across from
a corner of the conservatory to the upper
part of the theatre, roofed in, boarded at
the sides, and carpeted and lined, so as to
construct a tiny wooden passage, which,
though extremely frail, and not broad
enough to contain two people abreast,

%b

was yet quite sufficient to satisfy his
whim.

This private way was known only to
the household and to a few of the male
actors who had been taken backwards and
forwards along it occasionally by Guelph
at rehearsals ; and in this number Sylvester
had fortunately been included.
The entrance to the passage was concealed
by a heavy velvet curtain, which
he lifted up for Ethel. Then he said,
pointing down the way as he spoke, —

That'll bring you into the right hand
gallery of the theatre. From there you
will easily find your way downstairs and
get out'

Are not you coming too then ? ' panted
Ethel, breathless with the haste of their
flight.

Not till I have seen to your cousin's
safety first,' was his answer, as he turned
away from her and hurried across the conservatory
again.

At the door he was almost knocked
down by coming into violent collision with
Guelph, who was hurrying along with
Lady Elise.

Jove ! ' cried the former when he saw
who it was ; * where are you going, man ?
Have you forgotten my little passage ?
Everything else blocked — only chance
left ! '

I'm coming directly,' cried Sylvester,
but must find some one first. Don't
hinder me ! '

I say ! it won't hold many ! Give us
time to get off before you tell other people
of it — don't be in too much of a hurry —
keep it dark till we're safe,' Guelph hallooed
after him ; but Sylvester was already out
of hearing.

There was a perfect network of side
passages, small rooms, and ins and outs in
the millionaire's great house, and as Sylvester
had learnt a good deal of its geography
during his attendance at rehearsals,

that knowledge now enabled him to pass
round from room to room without coming
in contact with the crowd, through whom it
would have been impossible to make a way.
Heartrending screams and cries filled
the air. Everyone was striving wildly to
gain the only known outlet — the remote
back staircase ; and every approach to it
was crammed. Perhaps Imogen might be
amongst the fortunate ones who had already
escaped down it and reached a place of
safety. If so, well and good ; but if not !
He was almost maddened at the idea that
she might be perishing at that very moment
in this terrible place whilst a means of
escape was within easy reach. To the
woes of the rest of that great company he
was callous, and it never entered his head
that there could be any necessity for imparting
to a soul amongst them except her
the secret of the private way. Why, if he
did, the knowledge would spread like
lightning, and a crowd would rush to the

VOL. III. L

passage, choke It up, and break it down ;
and then how would he be able to save
Imogen even if he found her ? His theory
had always been that people must take
care of themselves or else go to the wall ;
and his conduct — both as regarded himself
and others — had invariably been regulated
in accordance therewith. It was true
there flashed across his mind an uneasy
recollection that the theory was one which
Imogen had protested against indignantly ;
and that she had been delighted with Sir
Charles for acting exactly contrary to It,
and putting himself In danger for the sake
of a lot of strange school children. But
there was no time to consider things like
that now. The one thing necessary was
to seek for her high and low, and rescue
her if she was not already safe.

Glancing hastily from the outskirts of
the throng over the dense mass of humanity
crushing and striving to get to the back
stairs and not seeing her there, he hurried

off to explore elsewhere. The doom of
all who were In the dreadful gallery was
sealed irrevocably, as it was by this time
all on fire, and he shuddered with horror
to think of the possibility of her having
been amongst them.

The first room into which he looked
contained nobody. In the second were only
two women. One was a very old lady,whose
age and infirmities had made it wholly impossible
for her to try and save herself
in the rough, surging crowd ; and the other
was her middle - aged daughter, who —
though world-hardened, painted, and frivolous
— would not desert her old mother in
this extremity, even to attempt to secure
her own safety. The cheeks of both were
rouged, and the fixed bright colour contrasted
strangely with the ghastly white
of their quivering lips, and with the scared
expression of their faces as they clung together
in despair ; the daughter, helpless
as she really was, yet striving to impart

some sense of comfort and protection to
her feeble mother by kissing and stroking
her with Infinite tenderness.

It was a pathetic Httle scene that might
well have touched him with sufficient compassion
to make him show them the way
by which they could have escaped. But
no such thought occurred to him, and he
only uttered an exclamation of disappointment,
and hurried on quickly to explore a
third room for Imogen.

There, to his inexpressible relief, he
perceived the object of his search. She
was standing with her father near a window,
and he and she together were endeavouring
with frantic haste to construct a sort of
rough rope out of the cords of the window-blinds,
hooping of curtains, and whatever
else they could lay hands on that could
possibly serve their purpose. But the
materials were not very suitable ; their
fingers were unskilled at the labour ; and
the rope was still deplorably far from completion.

There was only one other person
in the room besides these two, and that
was Sir Charles Dover, who was lying
back in a big arm-chair and evidently insensible,
if not dead. If dead, then /^^
would not be able to have the happiness
of winning Imogen, at animate, was the
thought that crossed Sylvester's mind,
not unpleasantly, as he advanced across
the room.

But the baronet was only stunned —
not dead. He had been dancing with
Imogen when the alarm was first given,
and as they had happened to be near
Mr Rhys at that moment, the three had
subsequently kept together. In the commotion
it happened that a large and
heavy marble bust close to where they
were, became loosened and began toppling
over. Sir Charles saw the great
weight just as it was in the act of
descending on the heads of the solid
crowd below, and sprang towards it,

making a desperate effort to seize hold
of it, and keep it in its place. He
failed, however, and the bust crashed
over upon the living mass, one corner
hitting him on the temple as it fell.
Had he been at the time in the thick
of the crowd, he would have inevitably
been trampled under foot ; but as he was
fortunately at the extreme edge of it, he
had been able to stagger into the next
room before falling down insensible.

By the time this happened, Mr Rhys
had discovered how extremely small was
the chance of getting to the back staircase
soon enough to escape by it ; and
it suddenly struck him that it might be
possible for him and his daughter to
make a rope strong enough to bear the
weight of a man, by means of which
they might let themselves down from a
window — and Sir Charles also, if he had
not recovered by the time the rope was
ready. The only doubt was whether

there would be sufficient time to execute
this scheme. However, as far as he
could see, it was either that or nothing
for them all ; so he drew Imogen with
him into the room where Sir Charles had
fainted away, and set her to work with him
at rope-making as fast as possible.

But the time was becoming fearfully short,
and the advance of the flames was hand-overland
faster than was that of the rope.

This then was the position of affairs
when Sylvester at last found the girl of
whom he was in search. As she saw him
approach, she pointed to their work, and
made signs to him to come and assist them
at it. Speaking would have been useless,
for she could not have made her voice
reach to as far off as where he was, on
account of the terrible din that prevailed.

The extremely elementary appearance
presented by the rope convinced Sylvester
that it could not possibly be finished intime
to be of service.

The rope'll do you no good ! ' he
shouted, going close to her and her father,
and making himself heard with difficulty.
Come with me — I can save you.'

There was no time for explanations, so
they desisted instantly from the rope-making,
and Mr Rhys turned to lift up
Sir Charles, while Imogen shouted into
Sylvester's ear, — -

Will you and papa be able to carry
him alone ? or shall I give a hand too ? '

There had certainly never occurred to
Sylvester the possibility of this. To be
expected to linger when every moment
was of inestimable value, in order to help
save his rival — the man whom it would be
more congenial to his feelings to send out
of the world than to keep in it ! It seemed
to him more than human nature — or signature
anyhow — could bring itself to do ;
and his first impulse was to refuse absolutely
to lay a finger on the unconscious
young man.

Never mind him ! ' cried Sylvester ;
you must leave him, and save yourselves
while you can ! '

But neither Mr Rhys nor Imogen
were of those who will consent to deserta
friend in extremity, and to leave Sir
Charles to his fate was not to be thought
of for an instant by either of them. So
she merely shook her head in response
to Sylvester's impatient adjuration, and
prepared to assist her father in raising the
baronet. As she stooped over him, she
cast a reproachful and appealing glance
at Sylvester.

The mute request for his aid was more
than he could resist, coming from her.
Besides, his knowledge of her character
told him that if he continued to refuse his
assistance, it would only end in Mr Rhys
and her carrying Sir Charles by themselves
as best they could.

That would cause delay now, when time
was so inexpressibly precious ; for of course

her strength was far less than that of a
young and vigorous man Hke himself, and
she and her father would bear the burden
much more slowly than if he were in her
place. Overcoming, therefore, with a great
effort, his intense distaste for what he was
about to do, he seized hold of Sir Charles
by the shoulders, leaving the feet to Mr
Rhys, and with Imogen at their heels
they sped along towards the conservatory
by a side way that he knew of ; it was not
the most direct route to take, but it was
one that enabled them to skirt round the
fearful confusion going on in the principal
passages, without coming in contact with
or being hindered by it. His two companions
accepted his guidance blindly, not
knowing whither he was taking them nor
how he intended to escape, till they found
themselves in the conservatory. Here he
hurried across to the covered entrance to
the private way, drew back the curtain that
concealed it, and made Imogen go on into

It in front of them — for Its construction
was so frail that he did not feel quite
certain whether it would not break down
under the weight of two men carrying a
third; and if she went first, her safety would
be ensured whatever might happen.

Meanwhile the hubbub and turmoil all
around seemed to grow continually greater,
and the confusion worse confounded. By
this time one fire-engine had arrived at
the house ; and what with the shrieks and
groans of the miserable people cooped up
inside, the shouts of the crowd outside, and
the hissing of the water poured upon the
flames, the Babel of sounds was in truth
appalling.

Just after Imogen had got inside the
tiny passage that led to safety, a sudden
thought struck her and she stood still.
Hitherto she had followed Sylvester without
reasoning upon what they were doing,
but now she all at once perceived of what
value this means of exit might be to numbers

of other people, if only they were
aware of Its existence.

More lives could be saved if this way
were known about ! ' she cried. * People
think there's nothing but the staircase.
I'll go back and tell them of this.'

The mere idea made Sylvester's heart
well-nigh stand still with horror. How
greatly did he then rejoice at having made
her enter the narrow passage first, for now
it was impossible for her to make her way
back past him and Mr Rhys, however
much she might desire to do so !

You shall not ! ' he exclaimed. * You
shall not pass back. Don't you see how
mad it would be for you to do the thing
you propose ? A woman — in a dress that
a spark might set on fire at any moment !
Hurry on — and don't linger here ! '

She had no choice but to obey, for the
path behind her was entirely filled up by
the two men and their burden. Yet it was
unwillingly that she continued her progress,

and in spite of what Sylvester had
said, she would^aost certainly have flown
back to do what she could for her fellows-creatures
if she had been free to do what
she chose.

At that moment there arose a sudden
fresh clamour of screams, groans, and cries
that was more appalling than ever, and
pierced her ears and heart anew.

Oh, this is horrible ! horrible ! ' she exclaimed
; ' can nothing be done for them ?
Let me go back, and tell at least some few
of this outlet ! Do let me go ! ' Her distress
affected Sylvester powerfully. It
seemed impossible that he should witness
it without attempting to relieve it.

And then, suddenly, there came upon
him like an inspiration, the idea that such
an opportunity as he could never again
have lay before him. Yes, for once in his
life, at all events, he had now a chance
of doing something that would meet with
her thorough approval, and he must not

let the unlooked-for chance sHp. He
Avould himself do this thing that she was
so anxious should be done ; he would himself
return to the fiery house, and see if he
could not rescue some more people by
means of the little passage whilst it
was still available. He would first help
Mr Rhys to deposit Sir Charles, who was
beginning to show signs of returning consciousness,
in the theatre, which was a
place of comparative safety. Thence Mr
Rhys and Imogen could easily complete
the escape of all three without his further
assistance, and he would go back to fulfil
her pleasure. After all, the expedition
would not be quite so dangerous for him,
as at first sight it might appear. Though
as soon as the flames should reach the
conservatory, the planks of the private
way would, of course, quickly be alight,
and the retreat cut off, yet that had not
yet happened. No fire had yet extended
so far, and there might be minutes and

minutes still before the conservatory would
be touched. Therefore the way was at
this moment safe and open. A man's costume
was not of the inflammable materials
of a lady's ball-dress. To a person like
him, naturally brave, knowing the ins and
outs of the house well, and having all his
wits about him, the undertaking offered a
very reasonable prospect of success, and
of a safe return from it.

Besides, he was just then in a state of
unnatural excitement, which made him
unusually reckless of danger. He knew
himself to be detected, and on the verge
of being ruined, and hopelessly cut off
from the woman he loved passionately.
Soon she would know all, and turn from
him with loathing and disgust. But she
did not know yet ; and now — this night —
for once, at least, she should think well of
him, come what might. There should beat
least one memory of him to approve of
whenever she might happen to think of

him In the future ; outcast and criminal
though he might be.

This thing, too, whereon her heart was
set so strangely — this desire to help others
must It not really possess some actual
good of Its own which he had never been
able to discover ? Else why would one
like her care so much about It ?

And In a sort of way there thus came
to him through her he loved, some approach
to sympathetic compassion for the
miserable creatures perishing in the fire,
to whose sufferings he would otherwise
have been indifferent.

There was no time for many words,
even had It been easy for a voice to make
itself audible In that wild uproar. The
instant he was beyond the passage, Sylvester
laid down Sir Charles, and hurriedly
pointed out to Mr Rhys the way by which
he would have now to proceed in order to
get Into the open air again through the
theatre.

Meanwhile he still occupied the entrance
to the passage, so that there might be no
possibility of Imogen's rushing back, and
carrying out her intention in spite of him.

Then he turned to her.

Not you, but me ! ' he shouted. ' I'm
going back to do what you wish. Will
that please you 1 '

It was more than she had expected of
him. A sudden expression of gladness,
surprise, and admiration rushed into her
face, and showed clearly what she was
feeling.

'Oh yes!' she exclaimed; and then
added simply, ' I'll pray for you meanwhile.'


Never before had her eyes rested upon
him with the look of trust and cordial
approval that shone in them at that moment.
He was almost intoxicated with
the delight that it caused him. His heart
throbbed with wild joy as at sone great
honour conferred on him, and he desired

VOL. III. j^j

ardently to deserve It, while yet at the
same time he had a consciousness of
being very different from what she
imagined him to be, which abashed him
in spite of himself.

Acting on the Impulse of the moment
he seized her hand and kissed It. ' Thank
you was all that he said. But the words
could not have been uttered with more
sincerity and profound, real, gratitude by
the most earnestly religious of human
beings. And then, feeling strangely exalted,
glad, and aided by the knowledge of her
prayers on his behalf, he flew back to
the Pandemonium he had just quitted.

There matters were growing rapidly
worse. The fresh outbreak of shrieks
that had wrung Imogen's heart had been
caused by the flames spreading to the
foot of the back staircase — all crammed
and packed as It was with fugitives. In
honour of the grand entertainment of the
night it had been swathed from top to

bottom In gauze, gracefully festooned and
draped ; and the fire, catching the gauze
like so much tinder, ran up the sides like
lightning and enveloped all who were on
the steps in one blaze. For these poor
creatures no escape was possible. But.
those who had not yet reached the staircase
might still have some faint hope of
saving themselves, so there was a sudden
check in the stream of people who were
pressing eagerly towards it as their last
chance of salvation. Stopping short and
turning sharp round, they struggled frantically
to fly in the opposite direction ; and
as those in the rear were still ignorant
of what had happened, the confined limits
of the passage became the scene of a
short but furious conflict before the receding
throng could prevail over the
advancing one and turn the current backwards
again.

Wilder and wilder grew the tumult as
soon as it was realised that the only known

means of exit was In the power of the foe.
The panic - stricken mob took refuge In
the rooms and fought for access to the
windows. Some shouted to those below
to bring blankets for them to jump Into
Imploring them to save them somehow
anyhow — for the love of God. A few
leaped out recklessly without heeding
what might be beneath to alight on —
whether road, garden, pavement, or pointed
rails ; possessed by an agonised terror of
death by fire they thought only of avoiding
that, and cared nought for the risk
of being bruised, maimed, Impaled, or
killed In their fall. And now a fire-escape
arrives at the window of the second
drawing-room. But everyone cannot get
to that at once — and there Is the floor
of one room fallen In with a fearful
crash already ! The fire gains so fast,
so terribly fast !

This then was the state of things prevailing
when Sylvester returned. Close

to the conservatory door he met a group
of people half dazed with fright and
roaming about distractedly without any
definite object in their movements. By
dint of gestures, words, and some violence
he got them to the entrance to the private
way, and made them understand that they
must go along it. The sight of this
unexpected means of deliverance out of
the fiery prison seemed to restore their
scattered wits, and they fled down the
passage without further hesitation, whilst
he went back in search of others.

As he entered the room adjoining the
conservatory there came a great puff of
spark-filled smoke that startled him and
showed the enemy to be closer at hand
than he had imagined. For an instant
he paused in doubt.

Would the way back be passable a little
longer } Had he not better return now
while escape was certain ? But the kindly
look that he had seen on Imogen's face

a few minutes ago was before his eyes,
and he was yet glowing with the enthusiasm
and happiness it had given him.
Would he merit her favour if he should
leave so many victims to perish miserably,
while there was still a fair chance of
rescuing some of them ?

Hardly, he thought ; and, so thinking,
rushed back for one lasts effort to save
life. The fire had as yet only just appeared
in the room in which he was, and
before it could spread to the conservatory
there would surely be time to dash once
more into the body of the house and get
back again with yet a few more men and
women snatched from the jaws of destruction.
Without losing: an instant he
rushed into a room where a number of
people had taken refuge.

Safety ! a way out ! follow me ! ' he
roared at the top of his voice, gesticulating
and beckoning at the same time to attract
the attention of those who could not hear

his words. There was a tumultuous rush
to accompany him on the part of those
who partly heard what he said and partly
guessed at his meaning, and he led the
way back in furious haste through the
blinding smoke that rolled more and more
densely through every part of the house.
There was still time — surely there was still
time !

Alas ! some of those fatal decorations of
muslin and gauze had been put up in the
conservatory also. These having caught
fire led the flames with fearful speed all
round the glass building ; by the time Sylvester
returned there with his companions
the place was all ablaze. The wooden
passage had caught fire and he was shut in
hopelessly to perish with those for whose
deliverance he had sacrificed his last chance
of safety.

Ceilings and floors having once begun
to go are falling in rapidly. The sparks
fall thicker and thicker — the smoke sorrows

more and more unendurable — the only fire-escape
that has yet arrived Is far away —
and the end cannot be very long in coming.
Well, at all events he has done his best
to please her, and to act for once according
to the principles in which she believes —
even though it was unfortunately wholly
beyond his power to attain to that state of
general virtuousness that she would persist
in admiring. He has done all he can for
her, and he thinks that he wishes she
could know that, at any rate. But though
that is impossible, yet somehow, and in
some strange way, he does not feel so
absolutely severed from her now, as he has
always done heretofore. He remembers
that last look she bestowed upon him as
they parted. Besides, does he not know
what she is doing at this very moment ?
she is praying for him — she promised that
she would, and she always keeps her
promises. Who had told him something
about the prayer of a righteous man availing

much ? He seems to have heard It or
read it somewhere or other, but he can't
remember where. Anyhow it makes him
very glad to be certain that she is praying
for him.

Ah ! what a fierce, scorching gust came
then, and how difficult It Is to breathe in
this suffocating smoke ! And suddenly
there flashes across his recollection the
cool, dewy freshness of the air that early
morning last September when first her
voice and merry laugh rang In his ears.
Cool — dew — freshness ! can one understand
that such things can exist when one is
in a burning, horrible atmosphere like this ?

Still she is praying for him — and he has
done what he could to save the people as
she wished. Oh, this terrible feeling of
choking ! air ! air ! — Is there none ? but
she is praying for him all the time — he
knows that with certainty, and It comforts
him strangely somehow, though he knows
not why.

Not until the whole house was burnt
down was the conflagration extinguished,
and amongst the numbers who perished In
the flames was Sylvester — noble and heroic
In his death, however evil and criminal In
his Hfe. Neither the misfortunes of his
early training, his faults, nor his follies had
ever managed wholly to quench the latent
power for good that was within him, and
that had been quickened to life by the
unconscious influence of one whom he
loved. Little had that love ever brought
him from first to last save exceptional pain
and unhappiness ; yet who shall say that
he was not really the gainer for a suffering
that was able to purify his nature from so
much of the evil in which it had become
encased ?

AN UNGRACIOUS TASK.

^^^^ERRIBLY long was the list of
people who perished in the
great fire at the Croesus Hoggs,
and rarely had London been so deeply
shocked and moved by any event.

Amongst the victims, however, Mr
Rhys and Imogen and Sir Charles were
fortunately not included. After Sylvester
left them, the girl and her father had
managed to carry and drag Sir Charles
out of the theatre. Once outside, the
open air had helped to revive him, and he
had been able to stagger along with their

assistance till they were beyond reach of
danger ; then he had been taken as soon
as possible to his rooms and put under the
care of a doctor, who ordered him to
bed immediately, and enjoined a condition
of strict quiet for some days at least.

Ethel also had escaped unharmed.
When she saw in the next day's paper
that Sylvester was amongst the victims,
she felt at the first moment as if a great
weight was taken off her mind. Villain
though he was, he had saved her life,
nevertheless, and she was glad to think
that there was now no necessity for her to
make known his crime, since he was dead,
and there was no longer a danger of his
harming anyone. Poor Imogen! how sad
for her if she had indeed cared for him — yet
less sad now, perhaps, than it would have
been if he were still alive. And Ethel's
anxiety on this point was so great that
she at once put on her bonnet and walked
across to Lowndes Square — ostensibly to see

how her cousin was after the fearful events
of the night before, and really to try and
ascertain if the girl were mourning over a
lost lover. If so, Ethel thought she might
be able to comfort her with the account of
that ardent love for her which he had expressed
— the knowledge that he had been
devoted to her to the last, would surely
be some consolation to the poor girl.

So completely had Ethel, by this time,
worked herself into the belief that her
cousin had fallen in love with Sylvester,
that it was an immense relief to her to
perceive, by the way in which Imogen
spoke, that she was evidently heart-whole
about him. In Ethel's satisfaction at this
discovery she said nothing about what had
passed between her and him at the last
interview they had had together — for why,
thought she, should she trouble her cousin
with the thought of having been loved by
this man ? Anyhow she would not do it ina
hurry, but would take time to consider

whether It would be wise to impart that
piece of information or not.

From Imogen she learnt what had not
had time to get Into the newspapers, and
what she did not therefore yet know ; and
that was, how heroically he had gone back
to save others, and thus met with his
death.

As the heiress returned to Belgrave
Square, she could not help pondering over
the short glimpses she had had of this
man whom she had seen but twice In her
life, and thinking what a strange character
his must have been. Her disposition,
feelings, and principles were all thoroughly
antagonistic to such a criminal, and
prompted her to think of him only with
abhorrence — yet somehow she did not feel
inclined in the present case altogether to
obey this prompting. When first she had
discovered that he was the person who
had robbed her, she had regarded him
with the utmost possible horror and

"aversion, supposing him to be nothing less
than an utter scoundrel. But the revelation
of his real self that he had subsequently
made to her, had touched and
moved her, notwithstanding her prejudice
against him, and that favourable impression
was now Increased by the knowledge of
the self-sacrificing manner of his death.
As she thought about him she recognised
the fact that she had been brought face to
face with a nature of by no means an
every-day kind, and that he who had been
able thus to wring some sort of esteem
from her, almost in spite of herself, must
have had some force of character distinguishing
him from the common herd of
men. To have to proclaim him a robber
would have been most distasteful to her,
she thought; she had at first only hesitated
about it, lest Imogen should have been so
unfortunate as to set her affections on him,
but now other reasons also made her unwilling
to make known his Iniquity, and

Ethel was rejoicing to think that she
would not have to do so, when suddenly
the recollection of Richard Richards came
to her and filled her with dismay. The
poor man was about to leave his home,
driven away by the popular belief that he
was guilty of her burglary, and nothing
save the production of the real offender
could remove that suspicion from him. To
consider the living before the dead, and
the innocent before the guilty was a manifest
duty. Was she then to come forward,
now that Sylvester was dead, and to strip off
the veil of ignorance under cover of which
his memory was held in respect, admiration,
and honour ? Surely he who had
saved her life, merited better treatment
than that at her hands ; it seemed as if
there would be something especially ungenerous,
mean, and ungrateful in a denunciation
of him coming from Tier. Yet,
alas ! what else was there for her to do ?
However ungracious the task might be,

there was no other possible way of exonerating
Richards from a false charge,
and restoring his character. So she overcame
her great reluctance to speak, and
revealed the secret of Sylvester's burglary.
Of course such a startling piece of news
produced an immense sensation. Society
was quite in consternation to find that a
man of this kind had been living in the
midst of it, and going about like anyone
else without anybody's having ever dreamt
of supposing there was any harm in him.
Why, good Heavens! who could one venture
to feel sure of after such a discovery
as this ? How were Brown, Jones, and
Robinson ever again to dare to put faith
in one another ? Would they not henceforth
be perpetually looking askance at each
other, and mutually suspecting themselves
of being forgers, pickpockets, incendiaries,
and perhaps murderers, in disguise .'^ Then,
too, in the chorus of indignant exclamations
were to be heard the voices of a few of

VOL. III. N

those people of the prophet-after-the-event
class who are never wanting when any surprising
event takes place. These declared
that they had had more insight than the
rest of the world, and had always been
convinced that there was something queer
about Sylvester, and that he was not a
man to be trusted further than you could
see him. It was an opinion which they
had, as they averred, stated repeatedly to
other people ; and this statement it was of
course impossible for anyone to contradict,
though it certainly did seem rather odd that
it should receive no corroboration whatever
from the memories of even those friends who
were most intimate with them, and therefore
most likely to be acquainted with what they
had said. But then some people are so
unaccountably forgetful !

On the whole, however, his memory was
not harshly dealt with, and the comments
made upon it were far more kindly and
charitable than they would have been if he

had died a natural death. The manner In
which he had lost his life restrained and
silenced idle and venomous tongues in spite
of themselves. For death for the sake
of others compels all men to admiration
whether they will or no — it seems as
though some shadow of the Divinity of the
crucifixion must rest upon it for ever.

Little as Ethel had seen of Sylvester,
and little as their two natures had in common,
she had yet understood him sufficiently
to be sure that there was nothing
he would have more ardently desired than
that Imogen should do him justice and
think kindly of him now that he was dead.
Therefore Ethel no longer now hesitated
to relate faithfully to her cousin what had
taken place between them at that last interview
before the fire. She resolved tolet
the girl know the good that had been
in him, the passionate love that he had
borne her, and the suffering which it had
entailed upon him. In doing this Ethel

felt that she would make the only reparation
in her power for the obloquy that she
had been the unwilling means of bringing
upon his memory, and it seemed to her
almost like a dying man's message that had
been entrusted to her to deliver.

It happened that several days elapsed
before circumstances were propitious for
her to make the communication that
weighed upon her conscience ; but at last
a favourable moment occurred one day
when she found herself alone with Imogen
in the Rhys' house in Lowndes Square,
and she profited by the opportunity immediately.
Truth to tell, she had a sort
of lingering, unexpressed fear, lest perhaps
Imogen might have drawn the man on by
flirting with him unfairly, but she was
made easy on that score by the genuinely
innocent surprise and concern which the
girl's face showed when she heard of his
attachment to her.

Oh, how sorry I am ! ' she exclaimed

I never dreamt of all this ! I only knew
that he seemed rather to like to dance with
and talk to me, and never suspected that
anything deeper lay behind. Lots of
couples do that much together without the
least meaning anything more serious, and
I supposed it was just the same between
him and me. I do wish he hadn't cared forme
so ! It makes me quite uncomfortable
to think of it'

I don't wonder at that ; ' answered
Ethel. ' You find that you had enormous
power over him of which you knew nothing,
and of course you naturally feel
anxious as to how you may have used that
power. The influence exercised by people
who are loved over those who love them is
so important a factor in the world's concerns,
that I sometimes think it's almost
enough to make us all shrink from being
loved because of the responsibility which
that love lays upon our shoulders.'

It was quaint to hear Ethel delivering

herself thus without in the least suspecting
the extent of her own power in this way-over
Imogen, and the great weight attached
by the latter to all her utterances and
opinions.

'Yes, indeed it is returned Imogen,
heartily; ' I'm sure I'd far rather that he
hadn't cared for me at all. The wonder tome
is, whatever can have made him do it ?
I know / shouldn't have ! '

The wonder thus naively expressed was
perfectly sincere and free from all intention
of being a bait for a compliment, as Ethel
easily perceived.

I daresay that some one will explain
that to you some day or other,' she returned,
smiling ; * wait till you get married,
and then see ! '

'Married!' cried Imogen. 'I don't
ever mean to get married. I've said so
over and over again, and stuck to it, too,
in spite of all the stuff Ralph talks. His
favourite saying is, *' Every woman intends

to marry if she can ; and quite right too,
for if she doesn't, she's a mistake." But I
shall just show him the contrary. What
does a boy like that know about us ? '

Ah, well replied her cousin, ' perhaps
you will, and perhaps you won't — you
know possibly you may change your mind
some day. If ever you do, at all events
you'll have one satisfaction that will be
denied to me in similar circumstances, and
that I confess I envy you.'

What's that } '

The satisfaction of not being forced to
think that you are probably sought for
your money, and not for yourself. You
know that is a fear that I must have continually
before my eyes. I shall never be
able to feel sure that anyone likes me
really.'

Oh, I don't think you need be unhappy
about that !' rejoined Imogen. ' I'm sure
lots of people like you ever so much !
Look how welcome you are everywhere ;

I've sometimes thought that I wish I were
half as popular as you are — it must be
very pleasant'

Well — yes — so I find it generally, I
believe,' answered Ethel, reflectively.
Only then the pleasantness is rather
spoilt now and then, when it suddenly
occurs to me that probably it is only the
owner of so much wealth that is wanted
and welcomed, and that whether that
owner's name be Carton or Croesus Hooker
is a matter of profound indifference to the
person welcoming. I very rarely think of
such a thing, for of course there's no use
in making oneself miserable about what
is inevitable. Still, when the idea does
happen to cross my mind, I naturally don't
find it a very agreeable and soothing one.
Sometimes I fancy that it must be in vain
for me ever to hope to be liked quite disinterestedly
— that the esteem in which I
might be held by even the honestest and
most unselfish people, would always be to

some degree affected by the fact of my
money.'

It was at the tip of Imogen's tongue to
reply, — '/Hke you for yourself, at all events.'
But she checked herself before the words
had passed her lips. They would sound
like a mere empty protestation ; and for
mere empty protestations she entertained
a profound contempt. Better to wait, and
let time show whether or no her friendship
was a real and enduring one. Therefore
all she answered was, —

Yes ; I suppose it must be a horrid
bore never to be able to trust to anyone's
caring for you in earnest. But, after all,
I don't think you find the position of an
heiress altogether intolerable — do you,
Ethel ? You can't say honestly that you
want to change it — now can you ? '

Ethel laughed.

I never said I did,' she returned. ' But
I must be off now, or I shall be too late for
an engagement. By-the-bye, have you

heard lately how Sir Charles Dover Is
getting on ? They say he was a good deal
hurt.'

He's getting better, I believe,' answered
Imogen ; ' I shall hear for certain how he
is before long, for Ralph Is up in town
again for a couple of nights, and said he
should go and see how Sir Charles was
to-day.'

And so Ethel departed to keep her
appointment, and Imogen was left to her
own meditations.

A SENSITIVE CONSCIENCE.

^^^ IMOGEN'S meditations after her
'£0^ cousin's departure were not of
^)^ a particularly agreeable nature.
She was somewhat more upset by all that
had just happened than she would condescend
to show. First there had been
the shock of the horrible fire, of her own
narrow escape, and of Sylvester's gallant
death. Then came the startling discovery
that the man with whom she had associated,
and who had saved her life in the
conflagration, had been a thief and evildoer,
so base and unprincipled as to have

had no scruples about letting someone
else suffer in his stead, and encouraging
the idea that another man had committed
the crime of which he was himself guilty.
And now finally came this fresh revelation
of his having loved her.

To find that he had cared for her in
earnest was a complete surprise to her.
She was a girl who was remarkably free
from the common female attribute of
vanity, and was not at all likely to imagine
any admiration of herself as existing, unless
it were expressed very plainly indeed.
He had never told her right out that he
cared for her, nor had he in any other way
made this sentiments evident enough for
her to perceive them.

Since the time of her coming out, her
life had been amply filled by the business
entailed upon her by this new phase of existence
— the business of assimilating some
things to herself and herself to others, by
which process her character was being unconsciously

transmuted and formed whilst
still retaining its own original individuality
as the foundation. In all that appertained
to this, she had been too fully
occupied to have time to trouble her head
with speculations as to whether any particular
person liked her or not, or to what
extent the liking might go. She had
always supposed that Mr Sylvester must
think her tolerably agreeable because he
seemed to like to be with her ; but she
attached no further importance than that
to his fondness for her society. She had
generally found him pleasant, and had
learnt to recognise that he possessed a
strange power of attraction that was peculiar
to himself But to regard him as a
lover was a very different matter, and she
had never felt inclined to do that. Had
she been saved from such a misfortune by
the firmness of her conviction that she
should never want to marry anyone at all ^
Or had she perhaps had some kind of

intuition warning her of that Invisible gulf
between them of which he had been so
painfully conscious ?

Ethel had spoken of the responsibility
of being loved ; and the words now came
home to Imogen not only with the force
due to the undoubted truth they conveyed,
but also with the additional weight which
they derived in her eyes on account of the
person who had uttered them. Imogen
was disquieted as well as surprised to
think of the power that she had had over
Sylvester. She could not help asking herself
uneasily how far she might have been
responsible for his moral condition since
she had known him ? and whether, perhaps,
some of his subsequent lack of goodness
or actual wickedness might not lie at
her door ? When In her best and highest
moods she had often been troubled by an
impatience of the uselessness of her life,
and had felt eager cravings to be able to
benefit the world somehow — to do something

that should make a real difference in
it for good. And now that it appeared
that the very chance she had longed for
had come to her without her perceiving it,
she felt by no means satisfied of having
made the most of it, and profited by it, as
she might have done.

To think that she should have had the
opportunity of influencing another human
being, a soul, a clever, strong man who
might in turn have influenced perhaps
numbers of other people also — what a tremendous
responsibility that was ! Had
she always spoken and acted as she would
have done if she had known of this responsibility
? as she wished she had done now ?
Had she not, perhaps, sometimes done
harm by careless, foolish words which,
though not exactly wrong in themselves,
had set fallen short of what they ought
to have been, and had certainly not been
such as she would have uttered if she had
had an idea that there was anyone likely

to attach especial importance to them ?
Or even if she had not done any actual
harm by her conversation, yet had she
done all the good that it had been in her
power to do ? Possibly if she had been
altogether a better person than she was —
more consistent, more earnest, more true
to the highest standard, then she might
have been able to assist him effectually,
and might perhaps have been the means
of reforming him altogether. The immense
responsibility of influence had never
before been so deeply impressed upon her
mind as it was now. For all she could tell
the making or marring of a man's life
might have been entrusted to her hands,
and her conscience would not let her feel
altogether satisfied as to the manner in
which the trust had been discharged.

A sensitive conscience pricks its owner
for sins of omission as well as commission,
and she had presently worked herself into
a state of considerable self-reproach and

unhappiness. She imagined that she would
like to talk the whole affair over with someone
else and find out how the eyes of
another person would regard it. That
thought led naturally to the consideration
of who would be a satisfactory individual
to confide in, in a case of this kind, and she
began to pass her friends in mental review.
First she considered her father. No — he
would not do. She felt she needed someone
with a capacity for youthful enthusiasms,
and as he must certainly have outlived
his by this time, therefore she was
sure it would be no use to expect him to
understand her. Her next idea was Ralph.
It was not unlikely that he might be able
to look at the thing from pretty nearly her
own point of view if he chose to do so ;
but then it was quite likely that he would
not so choose unless he should happen by
luck to be in the right humour just when
he was talked to about it. That would
never do ; for she was sure that she could

VOL. III. o

never confide what was troubling her to anyone
unless she should feel perfectly certain
of meeting with a sympathetic reception —
so Ralph, also, was dismissed from the list
of possible confidants. Then there was
Ethel ; would not she do ? Well — yes —
perhaps ; yet she, too, did not seem to be
exactly the ideal confidante that her cousin
was hungering after at that moment ; possibly
the extreme admiration which Imogen
felt for her imparted a sense of awe and
restraint that prevented her from appearing
absolutely satisfactory in the confidante
capacity.

Then Imogen began to wonder when
Ralph was coming back from his expedition
to see how Sir Charles was getting
on. That suggested the thought of the
baronet as a possible recipient of the
history of what was disturbing her ; and,
to her surprise, it somehow or other
seemed as If he would be the very person
she wanted. She believed he would be

sure to comprehend her meaning even if
she had a difficulty about putting it very
exactly into words — he always did seem
to have a faculty for comprehending people
who were wanting to do right, she had
noticed. Then she was convinced that
his opinion would be worth having, because
he had always seemed to her to
know by instinct what was the best thing
to do, without any fuss, bother, or uncertainty,
on all occasions. And he was
not a person who was ever likely to judge
anyone harshly or sternly, which was a
yet further recommendation to her when
she felt as sore and shaken as she did
at present. Quite a childish disinclination
to be scolded and longing to be comforted
had taken possession of her, and she felt
an instinctive conviction that he would
be the very ideal comforter whom she
desired. Strong, gentle, reliable, and sympathetic,
what more could she want '^. and
she was sure that he would neither be

amused at her as her father might be,
nor yet snub her as there would be a
chance of Ralph's doing.

Then suddenly a new and startling idea
that came into her head made her blush
hotly. Was there not something odd and
unnatural in her feeling such a thorough
confidence in a stranger as to cause her
to be inclined to turn to him as a comforter
rather than to any of her own
family ? Was this curious preference to
be attributed purely to friendly esteem,
or could it be the result of a warmer
feeling having crept in unawares ? Could
she, who had always regarded herself
as destined to be a champion of single-blessedness
as the natural condition of
women — could she have actually gone and
fallen in love ? It was surely not possible
that she should so readily have departed
from her principles ! and yet — and yet —
and yet — the more she thought about it
the more firmly convinced she became

that there really was no one in the whole
world to compare to him !

Was she indeed, then, forced to confess
to herself that she was in love — and she
not yet eighteen ! Oh, what a speedy and
ignominious come-down from her loftily
independent ideas, and oh how Ralph
would laugh if he knew it ! He didn't
know it though — not yet, at all events ;
perhaps it might be that he never would,
for it must all depend upon whether or
no Sir Charles were to make her a second
offer. She couldn't ask him, if he didn't
ask her — that was quite certain.

Was it likely that he would try again }
Well — when she came to think of it, she
had a kind of idea that such a thing was
not wholly impossible. If he did — why
then her answer would be somewhat different
from what it had been before ; only
of course he would have to find that out for
himself. How provoking Ralph would be
when he found himself triumphant, and

how he would crow over her ! Indeed,
so strongly did that consideration weigh
with her, that she began to ask herself
whether she could make up her mind to
face his ridicule, and whether she would
not almost rather remain single to the
end of her days. Yes — almost, perhaps ;
but then almost is by no means the same
thing as quite. After all, it would not so
much matter being laughed at and crowed
over, if she could hope always to be consoled
by the only person who appeared
to her thoroughly qualified for the office
of comforter !

And if he did that for her, would not
she perhaps be sometimes able to help
him in return ? Anyhow he must have
thought so when he asked her to marry
him, because he had described himself as
work for her to do, all ready to her hand.
He had declared that a woman could
make more difference to the man who
loved her than to anyone else in the

world, and all this that had happened
about Mr Sylvester certainly seemed to
confirm that theory.

Only then again there was such an
enormous difference between the two menin
question, that perhaps they could hardly
be judged by the same rule. Mr Sylvester
had needed help in a way that Sir Charles
certainly did not. She was sure that the
latter was ever so much better than she
was, and that it was only his modesty
that had made him fancy she could bean
assistance to him. Rather it was just
the contrary ; it was he that could help
her, she believed, and not she him. Yet
no doubt he had said that he wanted her
help — and she did not think he told lies.

How silly she had been not to have
appreciated his merits properly from the
first ! Perhaps, after all, he might never
give her this second chance which she had
been anticipating ; perhaps he would take
a fancy to marry some one else — some one

who would be too wise to reject such an
opportunity of a paragon husband. Well !
if so Imogen felt that she would have to
bear the disappointment as best she could,
knowing that she had only herself to thank
for it. At any rate, Ralph would lose his
chance of a triumph in that case ; for as it
was most improbable that such another
paragon as Sir Charles could be in existence,
therefore there could be no likelihood
of her being again tempted to give up her
original determination of remaining an old
maid to the end of her days.

Here the door opened suddenly, and two
people came in whose entrance put an
abrupt end to her meditations.

HOW RALPH WILL CROW OVER ME !

People sometimes give indications,
which may be interpreted
by a close observer, of feelings
which they are not themselves conscious of
possessing, and this had been the case with
Imogen. Though she was quite unaware
of drifting into falling in love with Sir
Charles, there had nevertheless been a
slight, indefinable alteration in her manner
to him of late, which had not escaped his
observation and had raised his hopes
greatly. He had thought the alteration
especially noticeable when he met her at

the theatricals, and had esteemed It of such
good omen to find that the moths he had
sent her had not been thrown away, that
he contemplated renewing his proposal to
her on that very night if he should have a
favourable opportunity for doing so. The
tragical termination of the party had of
course made it impossible for him to
execute his purpose, and since then illness
had kept him prisoner and prevented his
seeing her.

Tossing feverishly on his bed, he had
gone over again and again in his mind all
that had passed between them, recalling
and dwelling upon words, looks, and tones,
and trying to draw good auguries therefrom.
Was she really changed towards
him ? or was he merely a ridiculous, presumptuous
ass for venturing to think so 1
Then again he would be depressed at the
thought of how very little reason he could
discover in himself to make it likely for
anyone to fall in love with him ; for he was

by no means conceited, and had but a low-opinion
of his own powers of fascination.
But still his hopes reverted hopefully to the
difference he had noticed in her recently,
and he longed to be able to see her again
and to put his luck once more to the test.
Being laid by the heels was at that moment
most especially annoying, and he
daily besieged the doctor with entreaties
to be allowed to go about as usual.

When at last the happy day of emancipation
from the house arrived, his first
thought was to go and call upon the Rhys'.
Perhaps she would be at home and alone,
and if so, he would surely ask his question.
And anyhow he could not rest without
making an attempt to see her, whether alone
or not, for it was a whole ten days since
they had met, and his eyes hungered fora
sight of her again, and his ears longed
after the sound of her voice. He was on
the point of setting out, then, for this call,
when Ralph came to see him.

Hullo!' exclaimed that young gentleman,
meeting him on the threshold of the
door ; ' glad to find you well enough to go
out ! Don't turn back on my account —
ril come and see you another time !
Where are you off to ? '

'I was just going to call on your people,'
rejoined Sir Charles ; ' shall I find them at
home, do you suppose ? '

Don't quite know,' answered Ralph.
I fancy my father's out, but Im may beat
home perhaps. Tell you what ! I'll go
back there with you, and then we can goon
together somewhere else afterwards —
unless you don't want me, that's to say ? '

Sir Charles declared that he would be
delighted to have Ralph's company, and
then they started for Lowndes Square. On
the way there it did occur to the baronet
that it might tend to facilitate his seeing
alone if he were to confide the
object of his visit to his companion. But
then he was deterred by recollecting how

grievously on the previous occasion he
had been oppressed and hindered in getting
to his proposal by the consciousness of
some one else's knowing all about it all
the time. So he held his tongue now, and
gave Ralph no inkling that there was
anything particular in the wind.

Ralph's presence made the servant, who
admitted them at Lowndes Square, think
it needless to announce the baronet's
arrival to Imogen, who was sitting in the
drawing-room ; thus the two people who
suddenly disturbed her in the train of
meditations which had led her to discover
that she cared about Sir Charles Dover,
were none other than that gentleman himself
and her brother. This unexpected
entrance of the very person she had been
thinking about discomposed her considerably
; and her cheeks burnt almost as
though she had imagined him able to see
into her mind, and know the place that he
was occupying there.

Oh ! here you are, Im,' observed Ralph,
airily ; ' I thought perhaps you'd be at
home. It's the first day this fellow's pill
has given him leave to go out. I found
him just starting to call here when I got
to his diggings, so I came back along with
him, you see.'

I'm glad to see you so much better.
Sir Charles,' said Imogen ; ' I hope you'll
soon be altogether out of the doctor's
hands.'

She tried hard to master her confusion
so as to appear exactly the same as usual,
and had an internal conviction that her
attempt was a signal failure — which naturally
only increased her discomposure.
That there was anything wrong about her
passed unnoticed by Ralph, but was immediately
apparent to the finer perceptions
of a lover. Sir Charles knew that there
was a change in her voice and manner,
and felt somehow puzzled to account for
the novelty. What did it mean ? Was it

stiffness ? Could he have displeased her
in any way ? What was it ?

Thanks for your good wishes,' he replied.
* I've no doubt that I shall pick up
in no time, now that I may go out again.
Fresh air always agrees with me better
than anything else, and I find I don't get
on at all well without it'

No more do I,' she answered. ' Unluckily
it's an article that's decidedly scarce
in London. It's one of the few things
that no shop keeps in stock, or undertakes
to be able to supply you with by the day
after tomorrow at latest — as they do in
respect to almost every other thing one
can possibly require. I suppose you'll goto
get it in the country somewhere, or by
the sea, now that you can move.'

There was a mingling of sweet and sour
in this speech as it seemed to Sir Charles.
On the one hand it was satisfactory that
she should take an interest in his wellbeing
; but then again he did not at all

admire this prompt suggestion that he
ought to go away where he would be out of
her reach — especially just now on this first
occasion of meeting after such an immense
time, no less than a whole ten days having
elapsed since he had last seen her !

Here Ralph interposed with a bit of news
that he had picked up and was anxious to
impart to his sister.

I say, Im he said ; ' there's a new
wedding just given out. Guess who the
parties are that mean to get spliced ? '

Guess ? Not I ! ' she returned. ' What's
the good of wearing out my brains with
trying to guess something that you can
tell me all the time ? Who is it ? '

Well, I'll tell you the lady's name, and
you must find out the gentleman's for yourself,'
he replied ; 'it's Lady Elise Bolyn.'

And is the other, young Mr Croesus
?' asked she.

The very thing itself,' answered Ralph.
Perhaps she thought herself bound in

common gratitude to accept him after his
getting her safe away from the fire ; or
perhaps she admired Httle Guelph ; or
perhaps she admired little Guelph's money ;
who knows ? At any rate they've fixed it
up ; and the old Hoggs are quite enchanted,
and inclined to think that the acquisition of
such a daughter-in-law Is ample consolation
for the burning of any number of mansions.
What a thing it Is to be rich ! They say
those Hoggs think no more of the loss
of their magnificent house with all the
splendid pictures, furniture, plate, statues,
and etceteras, than anyone else would
of losing an old carpet-bags

Ralph was in a conversational humour,
and went on cheerfully retailing and commenting
on whatever gossip he had heard,
without suspecting how greatly Sir Charles
would at that moment have preferred his
room to his company. Meanwhile the
baronet was trying to find some pretext to
get rid of the loquacious youth, or In some

VOL. III. p

way or other to secure a private interview
with Imogen. Presently a bright idea
occurred to him.

Miss Rhys/ he said, ' I have a great
fancy to look at those two moths I sent you.
Will you think me very troublesome if I
ask to have my whim gratified ? '

Imogen blushed. She felt rather 'shy on
the subject of those moths now that she
had discovered the tender sentiments that
had been developing unsuspected within
her, and led her to set store on a worthless
gift merely for the sake of the donor. As
for Ralph, he entertained no doubt whatever
that the insects had been thrown away
long ago, but thought that she probably
would not like to say so to Sir Charles, and
therefore was annoyed at the baronet for
requesting to see them.

Deuced stupid of him, after I'd told him
what rubbish they were, and how she
laughed at them when they came,' grumbled
Ralph to himself ' I didn't think he was

so tactless— of course it puts her regularly
up a tree.

'Oh no!' replied Imogen readily, in
answer to the baronet's request. ' They're
in a drawer in the little boudoir on
the back stairs. I'll bring them to you
directly.'

Ralph stared in astonishment, for it never
entered his head that the moths in question
could really be there. Yet she spoke with
the utmost confidence. Certainly he had
not thought she could lie so like truth as
that— however, she was blushing pretty
considerably he could see. What did she
mean to do .^ for after what she had just
said, she was of course bound to produce
two moths of some kind or other for the
baronet's inspection. It would have been
easy enough to arrange the thing if she
had had her entomological cabinet in reach, •
for then she could have fetched out a
couple of old specimens of Thyatira Baits
to be looked at. But he knew that the

collection of moths had been left at home,
so she certainly couldn't get out of the
difficulty in that way. Would she trust to
the chance of Sir Charles' not remembering
what the moths he had sent were like ?
and show him a couple of some other kind,
and try and palm them off upon him as
being the same ?

Imogen's answer was just what Sir
Charles had hoped for, as affording an
excuse for him and her to go into another
room alone together.

I couldn't think of troubling you to
bring them here,' he replied, * but I should
like extremely to go and see them in the
boudoir, if you'll take me there.'

He was, however, mistaken in thinking
that he would thus get rid of Ralph's
presence ; for that youth was becoming
very curious as to what his sister would
exhibit as Sir Charles' Thyatira Salis, and
had not the remotest intention of being
left behind. Sir Charles looked imploringly,

meaningly, at him, as he rose to
accompany them ; but the look passed
unnoticed. Sir Charles took advantage
of Ralph's being a few yards behind them
as they went out of the room, to affect not
to perceive his intention of coming, and
shut the door in his face. Then when
Ralph pushed it open and followed them,
the baronet exclaimed, —

Hullo, old fellow ! what on earth makes
you want to see these moths ? ' with an air of
surprise so exaggerated that it might really
have given Ralph a hint to stay behind.
But all such hints were completely thrown
away upon him, for he never noticed Sir
Charles' behaviour at all, being too much
occupied with wondering how his sister
intended to extricate herself from the
scrape in which she had, as he believed,
got entangled. Never once did the
possibility of her having kept the insects
occur to him, till she opened the moth-box,

and he saw within it a couple of ill-set,
unmistakable Thyatira Bat is.

Glancing at her in utter amazement, he
was struck by an unusual look on her face,
which seemed to express embarrassment
and softness, mingled in a way that he had
never before seen there. Sir Charles, too,
was looking at him strangely, he thought ;
and then all of a sudden, there began to
dawn upon him a perception that he was
perhaps in the way.

Sir Charles, meanwhile, who recollected
Imogen's interest in Richard Richards, and
her anxiety for his innocence to be proved,
was asking whether he and his family had
yet left their home, as they had been going
to do, or whether the certainty of his
innocence had come in time to prevent the
move.

Yes, it was just in time,' answered
Imogen ; * they were to have gone next
week, but now they can stay on where
they are, and Richard has been taken on

at work by someone directly — people seem
to feel that they are bound to do something
to make up for their past unjust suspicions,
and I hear that a subscription is to
be got up for him. Ann — his wife, you
know — must have been delighted to be
able to stay, for she couldn't bear the idea
of leaving home. However, she didn't
indulge in any very extravagant demonstrations
of joy on the occasion, for when
she heard that her husband was cleared
from the charge against him, I'm told that
she only gave a sort of grunt, and remarked''
Well ; and there's foolish people
was to be so long finding that out. / was
know it all along." What a strange, sad
business this has been about the burglary.'
'Yes, indeed,' he answered. 'Whatever
Sylvester may have been, he behaved
nobly the other night and saved us at his
own risk. There would have been a poor
chance for our lives then, if it hadn't been
for him. And when I think how he helped

to carry me out of that horrible place where
I lay insensible, it seems perfectly odious
to have to consider him as a thief. I feel
as if I wanted to knock down anyone who
ventures to suggest such a thing. I knew
very little of him ; but it's my firm impression
that he must have been a fine fellow
in some ways, at all events.'

Ralph had relieved them of his company
a few minutes previously upon the pretence
of a note which he declared himself to have
suddenly remembered an immediate necessity
for writing and despatching. Sir
Charles and Imogen were consequently
alone together, and the mention of Sylvester's
name might seem to lead naturally
to her confiding to the baronet that history
of the relations between herself and Sylvester
that had troubled her so greatly a
short time ago. It had then seemed to her
most desirable to have a confidant for her
troubles ; and now here she was, alone
with the very person who had appeared to

her as an Ideally perfect confidant. She
did not, however, avail herself of the opportunity,
which was to be accounted forby
a sudden shyness of her companion that
had come over her in the last half-hour or
so. Instead of continuing, as might have
been expected, to speak about Sylvester,
she rather nervously suggested that they
should return to the drawing-room. But
the young man meant to have his say first,
and plunged into it boldly.

Wait one moment first, please,' he said.
I want to repeat a question, Imogen, that
\ asked you once before. Perhaps you
will think me a mere vain fool for troubling
you a second time with it — but — but —
somehow I have dared to fancy that if I
tried again I might possibly get a different
answer from what I did before ; and the
prize I hope for is too precious to risk
losing for want of a word. I sent you a
couple of moths and you did not reject
them even though they were but common

and worthless. May I meet with the same
good fortune as they did ? May I, too,
not be rejected, even though I have no
special merits to recommend me in your
eyes ? '

Her face was turned downwards, and her
cheeks were crimson. Extreme nervousness
and many conflicting emotions made
her feel awkward, and she did not immediately
reply. She felt half uncomfortable
even notwithstanding a new sensation of
gladness that was creeping over her.
Suddenly she looked up at him with eyes
shining with the strange, deep, hitherto
unknown emotion that filled her ; there
was, too, upon her face a half-saucy smile
that seemed a sort of final effort against
yielding to that sentimentality of being in
love which she had so often laughed at.

Ah, well ! ' she said ; * I suppose it
would be hardly fair to treat you worse
than I did your moths. And after all, you
are better than them in one way — for while

there are lots of Thyatira Bails in the
world, you know there's only one you.
But oh, dear, just to think how Ralph will
crow over me when he hears of it ! '

THE END.

COLSTON AND SON, Printers, EDINBURGH.

0112 042259314
