f)U\

AND VEL.

BY

EDITH Stewart Dewey,

Author OF " A DEATH RING," " SWORN FOES," " BAPTISED
WITH A CURSE," "TWO FLOWERS," ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. I.

LONDON: F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

18 8 3.
\ AU Rights reserved.]

Crown Zvo^ cloth 3^. dd. each.

The following Volumes of the Series are now ready: —
MY SISTER THE ACTRESS. By Florence Marryat.

" My Sister the Actress " is the best novel we have had the pleasure of
reading from the pen of Miss Marryat.' — yo/m Bull.

THE DEAN'S WIFE. By Mrs Eiloart.

i ' Any reader who wants a good story thoroughly well told cannot do better
than read " The Dean's Wile." ' — John Bull.

j A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence Marryat.

1 a really charming story, full of delicate pathos and quiet humour ;
pleasant to read and pleasant to remember.' — John Bull.

I TWO MEN AND A MAID. By Harriettt Jay.

1 ' Compared with the former works of the authoress of " The Queen of
i Connaught," this novel must be pronounced second to none.' — Graphic.

\ SWEETHEART AND WIFE. By Lady Constance
I Howard.

I 'The story from first to last is attractive, and cannot fail to command
wide favour.' — [Whitehall Review.

\ PHYLLIDA. By Florence Marryat.

'"Phyllida" is a novel of which the author may be justly proud.' —

I Morning Post.

j BARBARA'S WARNING. By 'the Author of ' Recoil

mended to Mercy.'

COLSTON AND SON, Printers, EDINBURGH.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

AN ODD ADVERTISEMENT,

CHAPTER II.

THE MAN WHOSE WIFE SHE WAS,

C£) CHAPTER III.

DOUGLAS GLEN-LUNA,

V CHAPTER IV.

VERY TENDER HEARTED,

CHAPTER V.

ON DANGEROUS GROUND,

CHAPTER VL

A FURTHER INSIGHT,

CHAPTER Iii.

A DRIVE,

CHAPTER VIII.

it's no BUSINESS OF MINE,

CHAPTER IX.

A VERY STRANGE ACCIDENT, .

TACK














iv Contents.

CHAPTER X.

SISTER rose's words COME TRUE, . . 116

CHAPTER XL

BEHOLD, A LITTLE CLOUD ARISETH NOW, LIKE

UNTO A man's hand, . . . 130

CHAPTER XII.

GIVING A DIAMOND, . . . . 143

CHAPTER XIII.

SUNDAY MORNING, . . . . 151

CHAPTER Xii.

RETURN HOME, . . . . 160

CHAPTER XY.

DR NEVILLE LAYS DOWN THE LAW, . . 172

CHAPTER XVI.

READ THE RIDDLE NEAR HOME, . . 183

CHAPTER Xiii.

NOUS AVONS CHANGE TOUT CELA," . 193

CHAPTER Xiii I.

THE NEXT MORNING, . . . 207

CHAPTER XIX.

SISTER ROSE GOES TO LUNA PARK, . . 216

CHAPTER XX.

MOTHER AND DAUGHTER, . . . 236

CHAPTER I.

AN ODD ADVERTISEMENT.

HOUSE in a quiet street in the
west central district, a small
parlour, modestly furnished, and
a woman pacing to and fro its narrow
limits with a quick, restless step, to which
one glance at her face, with its lines of
care and suffering, gave a deeper, sadder
meaning than mere impatience of mood
or passing fretfulness at the perpetual
patter of the rain in the dreary street

VOL. I. A

outside — all the more dreary in the growing
gloaming. Singularly incongruous and
out of place, too, she looked in the dingy
parlour, this superbly handsome woman,
rich in the majestic beauty of her five-and-twenty
years, perfect grace and ease in
every turn, every movement of the tall
slight form, in the carriage of the small
finely-posed head — the stamp of that blue
blood which only ages of birth and culture
can give and no gold can buy, thank
Heaven !

One action of hers told a story, for twice
in her restless walk she paused to look at
her left hand, on which a wedding-ring
flittered : and the second time struck it
almost passionately with her right, and
wrung them in mute anguish, then turned
sharply as with a slight tap the door
opened, and a little round, good-natured
looking body came in with some journal
in her hand.

Good morning, ma'am ; the boy's

brought your Athenaeum, and I hope
there'll be something in it for you this
time — not had no success, I suppose, my
dear ? "

Mrs May's beautiful tenant shook her
head.

No, Mrs May, it's all against me — this
being married — they all draw back when
it comes to that miserable fact ; it is no
use to tell them that I have a legal separation,
and that Mr Albany cannot molest
me, or refer them to my lawyers in proof
of that and a reference for myself ; and you
know, Mrs May, that all the two years I
have been your tenant — poor Professor
Merton's secretary — I have never even
known where my husband was, and do
not now."

It's a cruel thing, ma'am, I do say ! "
said the little landlady indignantly, " and
you got your marriage lines and all, and
so clever and handsome too, and such a
one to work too, and the poor dear blind

professor dead three months, and you can't
get no work 1 It's a right down cruel
shame, Mrs Albany ! "

The other stood looking down on her
for a moment, and then said with a heavy
sigh,—

*' Everything is so fearfully overcrowded
now-a-days, secretaryships are especially
close, and for teaching, as I say, ladies (and
I don't blame them) are naturally shy of a
woman, the more so if she has good looks,
who is a separated wife. I tell you plainly,
Mrs May, that, as things are now with me,
I shall not be able to stop on here long, for
I will starve before I owe — especially to a
hard-working woman like yourself."

Now, Mrs Albany, I can't a-bear such
words ! " exclaimed the landlady ; " something
must turn up soon ! Why, there
might be something in that there very
paper ! Surely every one won't mind the
marriage. I wish you was a widow outright,
I do ! "

So perhaps in her secret heart did Gabrielle
Albany, but she only took up the
Athenaeum listlessly enough, and ran her
eyes down the first advertisement columns.
The next moment she started, with a half
uttered exclamation.

"What a strange advertisement! Listen,
Mrs May. ' Wanted immediately, an accomplished
woman, who will act as companion
to a young lady, and also as secretary, and
to be generally useful to a semi-invalids.
Applicant must be a married woman. Highest
references exchanged. Address,' etc."

Why, ma'am ! " cried out the little
May excitedly, " that's just cut out for
you ; did you ever now ! You answer it,
and my son shall post it, quick."

Thank you, dear Mrs May ; but there
is no such desperate hurry, as, being after
six, my answer could not reach till tomorrow
morning. The address is, ' G. L.,
Great Western Hotel.' "

Well, ma'am, you ring when your letter

is ready," said Mrs May, nodding emphatically,
"and it shall go ;" and off she trotted
like a good-natured little barrel on legs,
while Mrs Albany opened her desk, not,
however, with any expectation of even a
reply ; she had suffered and knocked about
the world too much to expect anything.
She wrote full particulars so far as business
necessity required, and named her lawyers
and the widow of her late employer as
references, and when her letter had gone
^ there was nothing to be done but wait ;
indeed, she put the whole matter from her
mind as much as possible, though now and
then she wondered why the applicant must
be married. Was the "semi-invalid" of the
male persuasion ? Perhaps possibly some
boy of eighteen, whose anxious mamma
was afraid of his falling in love ?

Bah ! what matters it ? " she muttered
bitterly ; " I would give this right hand to
undo that one fatal, miserable mistake of
nine years ago."

Nine years ! Had she been then only
a child of sixteen when the shackles of a
cruelly disastrous marriage were laid upon
her ? Whose had the fault been ? At whose
door lay the wrong ? Surely, with those
who had left her year after year, a poor
little neglected thing, in a dreary school
that was simply a cold, harsh, loveless
prison house, to the wild, free, high spirit
it could not break or tame, but only madden
into desperate recklessness ; and sO,
when handsome, wicked Leicester Albany
crossed her path, and whispered of his love,
and of freedom with him in foreign lands,
she, mere child of just sixteen, saw only
the escape, and fled with him, bound once
and for all, wedded for life before she
knew or dreamed what heavy chains she
had put upon herself.

Saturday passed without any answer ; all
Sunday, of course ; but on Monday morning
came a letter, in a regular lady's hand.

Lady Glen-Luna presents her compliments

to Mrs Albany, and would like to
see her at eleven o'clock precisely. Great
Western Hotel."

And exactly at eleven Gabrielle Albany
was at the hotel, where a waiter at once conducted
her to a private room and left her.

But she had not long to wait, when the
door again opened and admitted, not a tall,
stately dame, but the smallest, daintiest,
prettiest of little matrons, whose rounded
form, piquant face, and glossy brown hair
plight pass for anything between thirty-five
and forty, and young for that. It was not till
such rare moments in which you could catch
the face in absolute repose that it might
strike a close observer that the smiling lips
could settle thin and sinister, the eyes,
without their sparkle, look that cold, cruel
grey whose glint is hard as steel, pitiless as
the nether millstone. Something of its
glimpse Gabrielle caught as she entered,
in the second before she spoke, rather
effusively.

** Mrs Leicester Albany, I presume. Pray,
be seated again, for really," with a ringing
little laugh, " you make me feel like church
and steeple ; pardon my rudeness ; but you
do, indeed. I always think I must look
absurd beside you tall people."

It was impossible to help smiling, and
Gabrielle put up her handkerchief, apologising.


Oh, don't apologise, Mrs Albany ; by-the-bye,
didn't you think the advertisement
a very funny one ? "

Say original, madam," corrected the
woman of the world with a slight bow,
and we shall better name it."

Ha ! ha ! well, original, then ; my husband
and I drew it up, for you see we
required a rather exceptional thing ; a
widow wouldn't do, we don't like widows,
and a spinster wouldn't do a bit, because
I want a lady who can chaperon my
daughter Jessie when I cannot ; and so
that only left us to find, if possible, some

married woman whose husband was perhaps
in India, or who, for other considerations,
you see, would part company, then
your answer came most apropos ^

The lady paused for breath ; Mrs Albany's
low, rich voice, so soft and mellow, came
quite as a relief after those quick, high-pitched
accents.

Who then, madam, is the invalid of
whom you spoke ? "

Well, he is not really an invalid at all,"
answered Lady Glen-Luna, " but he might
be, dear boy, and it is really more on his
account we are making this addition to our
household, as he requires a secretary, companion,
possibly a nurse — you understand —
some one who will be kind and useful generally.
He is Sir Arthur's son — only son by
his first wife — only I call him my boy, you
see, because I'm so fond of him, such a fine
young fellow ; and a year and a-half ago,
on returning from the Continent with a
friend, there was one of those horrible

railway accidents, and, in saving a man
who was in the same carriage, my darling
boy was seriously injured by something
falling across his spine, I believe ; but all
the doctors haven't got at the exact mischief
yet, though they all say he will
recover in time, and certainly he is better,
for he could not for a twelvemonth even
stand, and now he can just for a few
minutes. And being a married woman
yourself, Mrs Albany, you would not mind
being so much alone with my poor Douglas,
going out with him, and all that."

On the contrary. Lady Glen-Luna, I
should only be glad if I can in any way
lighten or alleviate a misfortune doubly
terrible to a young and active man."

Thank you ; well, then, Mrs Albany, it
rests with you to accept or refuse this situation,
at one hundred pounds a year and all
travelling expenses. I went myself on
Saturday to your references, and am perfectly
satisfied, and so were your lawyers."

Gabrielle half smiled.

If so, madam, I am. How soon do you
wish me to join you, or follow ?"

I shall return to Luna Park at once ;
here is the full direction, and if you could
follow me in a week — "

In two days if you like, madam."

Oh no, no, that would be hard on you ;
say Thursday, by the train leaving haddington
at twelve, and the carriage shall
meet you."

'A few more details were settled, and the
two women parted, the younger certainly
not very favourably impressed by the elder,
and especially not impressed by a belief in
her great affection for her stepson, Douglas
Glen-Luna.

THE MAN WHOSE WIFE SHE WAS.

Gabrielle ALBANY started
homewards as she had come, by-train,
glad that she had some
good news to carry back to kind little
Mrs May.

As she came up out of Portland Road
Station, and struck southwards, she passed
quickly across the head of a hansom just as
it drew up at the station, and its occupant
sprang out. She neither saw him nor turned,
but the gentleman, as he paid the cabman,
caught a full view of her as she crossed the
road, and with a start and muttered " By
Heaven ! what luck !" swung round sharply

and followed her at a sufficient distance to
keep her in view amongst the people ; the
tall, slight figure, with its free easy grace of
movement, was easily distinguished amongst
hundreds. He would have known it amongst
thousands, this handsome dashing-looking
man, whose short thick beard and moustache
almost entirely concealed his mouth, that
feature on which of all others the worst passions
and a dissolute life soonest and most
indelibly set their stamp.

His chase was not a long one, for she
walked fast without seeming to do so, and,
presently turning up a quiet by street,
paused at a door, and drew out a latch-key.

Now was his time ; he strode forward up
the steps and laid his hand heavily on her
shoulder. In the moment that she heard
the steps behind her she turned and met
the free, bold gaze of those black eyes which
is in itself an insult to a woman, and the
passionate blood flushed to her brow, leaving
her again deadly pale.

Leicester Albany ! "

Only those two words under her breath ;
neither cry nor start outwardly.

Ay, you didn't expect to see me, I
guess, did you ? " said the man coolly.
I've been trying to end you out for a
month past. I must speak to you, my dear,
in there, unless you prefer passers by for
listeners."

She looked full in his face, and said, with
a cool deliberate scorn that made even hit
wince, —

I could have hated you were it not that
I despise you utterly ; I could curse the
hour you ever saw me, but that the mere
thought of such a noisome reptile as you
is contamination. Follow me — I will give
you ten minutes."

She opened the door wide, and pointing
to the parlour, drew back for him to pass
on, followed, and carefully closed the door.

For a minute those two stood facing each
other in silence within arpa's-length, she

steadily, unflinchingly, though the haughty
blood mounted slowly again under the bold
gaze of free admiration that came once
more into Leicester Albany's eyes.

By the Lord ! " he said, "■ your are
handsomer than ever, Gabrielle, and after
two years' separation your beauty comes
back quite fresh. I could almost play the
role of lover again. One touch, ma belle,
for auld langsyne, one kiss of those sweet
warm lips, though you are my wife — so."

The movement was even quicker than
the word, for, with it on his lips, he
threw his arms suddenly around her slight
form, drew her forcibly to his breast, and
stooped to take the kiss to which he had
long lost all right. But the false lips never
touched hers, for she started from him,
with a low cry of horror, flinging him ofi"
with a strength that made him even stagger.

Stand there ! " she said, with stern and
haughty passion ; " if there is by chance one
remnant of manhood left in you save its

outward form. Your wife ! — yes, God help
me ! — so I am, because the Church Catholic,
which made me so, rightly makes the bond
indissoluble ; but from the hour I was
forced to leave you, we are married only in
name. Your presence, your touch, your
kiss are more polluting, more degrading tome
than that of another man, who at least
would not have to see every vow taken at the
altar lying in a shattered mass between us.
Love, faith, cherish — those were your vows,"
and how did you keep them during all the
long, heartbreaking seven years I lived with
you, until, merciful Heaven I I was no
longer safe with you, my husband? For

love ' you gave only the brief, ignoble passion
of a few months, such as you gave to
any other mistress of the passing hour.
For * faith ^ you wrote * infidelity,' for

cherish ' and * honour ' you flung me, in
all my youth, amongst your roue companions
for your own base ends, hurled me
into every temptation ; sold your honour

VOL. I. B

and mine at last to the highest bidder in
that wild place ; and when I threw myself
on your breast, and clung to you in frantic
terror for protection, only laughed at his
insult as a jest, flinging me oiF; and that
night, when you had staked and lost all else,
gambled me — your wife — away for a few-thousands
to the man who had won your
gold ! I shot him down like a dog, in self-defence,
and escaped through untold suffering
and danger, but none, I call Heaven to
witness, so deadly as the awful danger in
which I had stood at my husband's side,
and from my husband's hand ! This creeping,
despicable reptile, whom the very
beasts of the field and the fowls of the air
might put to shame."

This outraged woman's scathing, superb
scorn was terrible, and the man shrank, and
for a moment almost cowered, before it, as
if he were lacerated by a hundred scorpions.
Dastard like, he took refuge in a fierce sneer,
when he could face her again.

'' Then, since the chain that binds you
still to Leicester Albany sits so heavily, and
perhaps you have good reasons to wish for
freedom, eh ? — why did you not do the
thing thoroughly while you were flying to
law, forsooth ? " In the mere sound of
his own voice he was regaining his bold
effrontery once more. " You best knew
how very easily you could have got a
divorce, — and — could — now ! " How he
watched her, as the words dropped slowly
from his evil lips ! "It is not too late.
I haven't been a saint after, any more than
I was before, you fled from my protection.
Appeal to the law again, ma belle. I shall
not stand in the way ; it may go by default,
as the judicial separation did. You had it
all your own way then, and may again forme."



Now, I see why you have been trying
to find me this month past," said Gabrielle
coolly, and fixing her dark eyes steadily on
his face. " Your whole appearance plainly

tells me that at present you have plenty of
money at command. Homburg and Monaco
have been propitious. You are a gentleman
so far as birth, education, society manners
go ; in nothing else. You are still handsome,
and certainly, even at five-and-thirty,
do not look the dissolute roue you are ; perhaps
because you never drank ; that would
have soon disordered your hand — vest ce
pas f With all this, you might, you think
(correct me if I make any error in my statement)
easily make some good match, an
heiress perhaps, or a rich widow, if — ah,
that obstinate little word ! — if it were not
for the simple obstacle of this marriage, "
touching her wedding ring. " Bigamy is
such an ugly word, isn't it ? If the wife
should chance to hear of the affair — so
vulgar too, and ridiculous for dashing
Leicester Albany ! You thought it would
be far better and safer to first rid yourself
of this obnoxious marriage and wife, who,
despite all your kindly efforts, would not

be driven to exchange your * protection ' for
that of another man. As that so signally
failed, and as your own conduct was so
black that no charge of wrong against her
could have stood its ground, even if true,
the only next move possible was to try and
get the wife to avail herself of your miserable
cruelty and unfaithfulness."

In the devil's name, then, do it, and
free us both ! " Albany broke in, with a
fierce passion, before which most women
would have quailed ; but her firm lips never
quivered, the delicate hand resting on the
chair-back near her never shook a hair's-breadth,
though her manner changed.

If," she said, bending forwards, "I believed
in this monstrous iniquity, which is
now a living disgrace to England, this
modern pest-house which helps to make
such men as you, and such women as you
would have made me, if it were really
possible for man to break what God
made, for any law of man to put asunder

what God joined together, and only God
can loose by death — if only one word of
mine could set you free to wed again, I
would not speak it, because I would not
put it into your power to wreck another
young life as you have mine — perhaps to
drive another, weaker mentally and physically
than I am, into the sin from which
I escaped by almost a miracle. For myself,
you have taught me so terribly what a
hell on earth marriage may be, that I have
no wish to try it again, were I free ten
times. As far as you are concerned, the
law has done for me all that I want ; it
has absolutely freed me from you, save in
the mere fact of bearing your name, and
being (literally only in name) your wedded
wife. You are even liable at this moment,
if I choose it, to arrest for contempt of
court for forcing yourself upon me here.
Saving that one unbreakable link of marriage,
I have severed every tie, destroyed
every vestige, every letter, or writing, or

likeness that would recall your existence
to me."

A sudden gleam leaped into his black
eyes, but he only said, with a sneer, —

Then you had better drop my name
since you so despise its owner ; and we
should at least be strangers if ever or
wherever we might meet."

She looked straight into his eyes, and
said steadily, deliberately, —

I will NOT. I am your wife ; and .1
warn you that whatever .evil scheme you
form I will foil you. Go ; the ten minutes
are more than spent."

She flung the door wide, and stepped
back ; gathering her robe aside, stood motionless
until the street door clanged behind
him, and then — then threw herself on the
couch with a terrible burst of agony, as Godsend
few indeed may know.

But Leicester Albany, even in all his
rage and disappointed fury, laughed to himself
as he strode away. No one had seen

him there, and she had destroyed everything
that could identify him. It was only
her word against his !

What was the desperate scheme that
had flashed into his mind when that fatal
admission was made by his unfortunate
young wife.

DOUGLAS GLEN-LUNA.

T was with a heavy heart after
all, and no great hopes for the
future, that Gabrielle Albany
parted from good Mrs May, and started
for this somewhat odd situation, and certainly
to her, in many respects, quite new
experience. Fortunately it was one of
those lovely days which make everything,
physical and mental, wear its brightest
aspect ; and it soon had its effect on a
mind and temperament singularly strong,
finely balanced, and elastic and impressionable
indeed as a Southern's.

The railway journey took up full two

hours, which brought her into the quiet little
station of Doring between two and three
o'clock — a pretty little toy-like station, with
white railings fencing it from the high road
so exactly like the sheepfolds of a child's
farmyard, that you almost looked for the
inevitable brown - spotted cow, feeding
eternally, and the brown Dobbin, and
the yellow cat sitting on her tail, and
nearly as big as horse and kine. Beyond
that the silver river glinted and rippled,
with glimpses of rich wooding and hill and
dale.

Did the river flow past Luna Park ? the
traveller wondered, as she stepped on to the
platform, and gave the provincial speaking
porter the description of her luggage. But
she had no further trouble on that point ;
for before it was well out on the platform,
a man-servant, in a handsome livery of
blue and silver, came out from the station,
glanced round, and came straight up to her
with a respectful salute.

I beg pardon, madam ; but are you the
lady we are expecting at the hall ? "

My destination is Luna Park, certainly,"
answered Gabrielle, smiling, " and my name
is Albany — Mrs Leicester Albany."

That is right, then, madam. I have
the waggonette waiting, and will see your
luggage safely in it, if you would kindly sit
down a minute."

Thank you."

The man touched his hat again, and wei>t
off to the porter, who, of course, knew him
well enough ; and Mrs Albany, giving up
her ticket, passed outside, where stood a
well-appointed waggonette and pair.

A few minutes more and they drove off,
the servant remarking that they should
soon reach the park gates. In fact, getting
to Doring high road, the man took a turning
which led straight on about a quarter of
a mile up to some very handsome iron
gates, with a pretty lodge within. Passing
through these gates, the carriage drove on

through a stately park, and presently came
in view of a noble old hall, with a sweep of
terrace facing, as Gabrielle now saw, the
river, which flowed at the bottom of the
grounds, and lawns surrounding the mansion.
The avenue of trees up which the
carriage had come, however, led to the
grand entrance round to the west side of
the building, and there the servant drew up,
and assisted Gabrielle to alight, as soon as
the peal he gave the bell brought a footman
to the door; then drove away with her
luggage to another entrance, whilst she was
shown across the wide and magnificent hall,
along a corridor, and into what looked like
a breakfast or morning room.

In a few moments there was a rustle of
silk outside, a bright, clear, if somewhat
metallic, voice she knew, saying to someone,
—

Yes, of course ; up to her rooms, and
send my maid here," and Lady Glen-Luna
entered.

** I'm glad to see you again," she exclaimed,
in her pretty, effusive fashion, which
most people thought so charming. " I hope
you have had a pleasant journey, Mrs Albany
; if, indeed, such a tiresome thing asa
railway journey can ever be pleasant."

I generally manage to beguile the longest
journey, Lady Glen-Luna," answered
Gabrielle, amused, if not more prepossessed
than at first, at her little ladyship. "I am,
you see, so used to travelling in all sorts of
odd ways and places, that nothing comes
amiss to me."

Why, that is just like my dear boy 1 "
cried the little lady, delightedly ; " he is
just such a cosmopolitan. Oh ! you and
he will get on capitally, Fm sure ! Your
rooms are in the west wing, near his, for,"
laughingly, "you belong to his suite, you
must understand, not to the general household.
Oh ! you hold a position of importance
; you are principally Douglas's secretary.
Jessie can only have a little bit of you when

her brother chooses to spare you. Here
comes my maid Powell ; she will show you
your rooms, dear Mrs Albany, and do anything
you wish for you ; so ta-ta for an
hour."

Mrs Albany's bent head and curved lips
thanked her with the most graceful courtesy ;
Mrs Albany's inward cynical comment was —
I wonder what all this means ! It glitters
a little too much to be all real gold ! "

The thought, the distrust, the quick insensible
suspicion of false coin somewhere
might perhaps be a little cynical, the outcome
even of a nature slightly seared by
the bitterness of its worldly experience ;
but, for all that, the subtle impression of
insincerity had taken hold, and would not
be shaken off. It had no shape ; it was
without form and void ; " but it had
struck root, like the mustard seed, which is
the smallest of seeds, and would grow day
by day into a great tree.

She followed Powell along corridors and

galleries, and up this staircase and down that
all familiar enough to her later — until
they emerged into a fine wide hall on the
ground floor, opening to the grounds by a
double door, with a lift to the floor above,
and a wide, shallow stone staircase, also
leading to the gallery which ran round the
top.

'' Now, madam, we are in the west wings'
said Powell, ascending the staircase to the
first floor, and passing on to a stately corridor
; "all our Mr Douglas's suite of rooms
are here, in the left, facing the south, you
see, ma'am, and the river ; and your apartments
are on the same corridor, near the
end, because, as my lady said, you belong to
Mr Douglas."

Which, in the eyes of the dependents of
the house, was evidently a great feather in
the cap of any so greatly honoured an
individual.

The maid, as she spoke, opened a door and
ushered the new inmate of the west wing

into a spacious and luxuriously-furnished
sitting-room, from which an inner door
admitted them to a large, elegantly-appointed
bed-chamber, where Gabrielle found
that her luggage had preceded her, and a
dainty tray with refreshments and tea
awaited her. Powell placed an easy-chair
at the little table, and poured out a cup of
tea, remarking that she was sure Mrs Albany
must be quite faint, and as dinner was
not till seven, she hoped she would eat.
Could she unpack anything ? What would
she wear ?

"Thank you, Powell." She did not
know how her own beauty and winning
voice and manner had won their way already.
** All I want for to-day is in that
black trunk, and this is the key; and I
shall take but little time dressing, as you
see my hair is all curly by nature, only onto
my shoulder, so that I really need not
trouble you further."

'* Indeed, madam, it is no trouble, but a

pleasure, to wait on you," answered Powell,
busy over the black trunk, from which she
drew first and foremost an elegant dress of
rich black satin, trimmed with crimson. No
doubt, in the process of dressing, Gabrielle
could have learned the whole history and
doings of the family, from A to ZJ; but
she had no inclination to hear the talk or
gossip of the servants' hall, and only asked
a few questions about the neighbourhood,
the locale of the river, — of course there were*
boats, and so on ; and, by the time she was
ready for introduction to such members of
the family as were indoors, the hour had
elapsed, and a tap at the door, and Lady
Glen-Luna's chirrupy metallic voice asked, —

Are you ready ? May I come in ?
Yes ? " as Powell opened the door.

Ah, pardon me, my dear Mrs Albany,
I never can stand on ceremony, you'll find,
but how exquisite you look in that sweet
dress ! So becoming to your style. I hope
you like your rooms, and the piano. Well,
VOL. I.

as neither Jessie or Sir Arthur are in from
riding yet, shall we go to see my poor boy ?
I daresay he'll like to see his new secretary."
And, sooth to say, Gabrielle Albany had a
great longing to see this unfortunate lad,
for whom her heart ached. There are perhaps
few things that touch a woman so instantly
and deeply as to see a young and
vigorous man stricken down in his richest
promise. There is no surer appeal to a
true woman's sympathy or heart, than to be
thrown helpless on her care.

I want to catch him unawares before
we are seen," whispered Lady Glen-Luna
merrily, as she led the way back along the
thickly-carpeted corridor. " The anteroom
door was open just now, and by the scent
of flowers I am sure the inner , one is wide
open, as well as both the windows.
Hush ! "

The little lady was right, and, as they
paused beside the anteroom before the wide
open inner door, Gabrielle had before her

for a few minutes a vision, beautiful indeed
to the artist's eyes, but ah, me, how painful
to the woman's !

A vista of sunlight, and soft glowing
colours of carpet and flowing silken draperies,
and masses of flowers which flung
their rich perfume over the whole luxurious
apartment, colour and exquisite statuettes,
and pictures, all reflected back and again
in costly mirrors. All this the quick eye
took in, revelling in the wealth of artistic
beauty, noted too, the glimpse of a grand
piano, and the light and elegant wheeled
chair, that told its own sad tale, and turned
with a throb of intense pain on the one
living being within that room. There, right
in one of the wide open bay windows, on a low
couch, amongst a mass of crimson cushions,
lay, not a lad's, but a man's tall slight form,
motionless, as if both face and form had
been those of a beautiful marble statue fresh
from the sculptor's chisel ; the attitude,
perfect in its easy grace, but not one of

repose. The last movement had too evidently
been one of restless weariness — one
arm flung back above the fine head, the
slender hand almost buried in the rich
masses of curling burnished locks that lay
-on the silken cushions, the head itself tossed
back and slightly aside, with the face quite
upturned and almost deathly pale, despite
the light that fell full on its delicate and
chiselled beauty.

** Douglas," said Lady Glen-luna advancing,
and at the sound he started, lifted himself
abruptly on one arm, and turned on the
visitors a pair of dark magnificent grey eyes,
heavily fringed by very long silky lashes,
and how instantly the whole mobile face
changed as that glance rested on the beautiful
stranger.

"A thousand pardons, Adeline; I thought
I was still alone."

A delicate accent, uttered by the softest,

most melodious tones, a little languid, perhaps,

with that subtle pathos which almost

invariably underlies a very musical voice, and
gives it, perhaps, half its power and charm.

I saw the doors all open, dear, so I
thought I might dispense with ceremony,
and at once introduce to you your new secretary
and companion, Mrs Leicester Albany."

"It is a pleasure to which I have looked
forward all this week," said Douglas Glen-luna,
holding out his hand, and, as hers
lay for a moment in that warm, firm clasp,
oddly and suddenly the chance choice of
expression of the lady's maid flashed vividly
before Gabrielle's memory, —

Your apartments are in the same corridor,
because you belong to Mr Douglas."

I must try not to disappoint your
expectations then, Mr Glen-Luna," she
said in her gentle way.

Nay, I hope I shall not tax your powers
too far ! " Douglas answered, with a smile
that lighted the handsome face like sunshine.
" I am afraid that the helle-mere
has been telling some awful tales of my

severity and exacting ways." He stretched
out his arm as he spoke, and drew up a
low chair. " You are standing, and as
I see my little helle-mere is already preparing
to leave us to make friends as best
we may — Must you really go so soon,
Adeline ? " he broke off.

My dearest boy, really ! don't you see
I am not even dressed for dinner yet ; and
so ta-ta for the present."

The young man just touched his softly
moustached lips to the white jewelled
fingers she extended, and, as she tripped
away, turned again to his new companion,
with, she fancied, something of relief.

Well, then, Mrs Albany, since you are
to be mainly domiciled in these rooms, in
charge of such a worthless being as myself,
I must e'en do my best to make you feel
quite at home here, or" — with a quiet,
earnest look of the dark grey eyes — " may
I say to make you feel this your home ? "

Home ! a strange word to the beautiful

woman he addressed, a dream of the unknown,
an horizon, a myth, never once in
all her life a reality ; child and maiden,
wedded wife, and worse than widowed, she
had never known a home.

Thank you," she said in a low voice, that
despite herself would quiver a little ; " I am
sure it will be my own fault if it is not so."

He shook his curly head slightly, and lay
back quite silent for a few minutes ; then
he said, without looking at her, —

Perhaps you will find me far more
troublesome than you imagine, or at all bargained
for. They told you at first that it
was half for Jessie you were engaged, but now
you see it is really entirely for my menage
my behest — I, who never was patient — you
will weary of such a restless, helpless — "

Gabrielle's hand touched his, arresting
the bitter, impulsive words.

Forgive me if I pain you, but I ama
woman, and just because you are helpless
and dependent you will never weary me ;

nothing will be a trouble or too hard that
can lighten your burthen, but only my
deepest pleasure. I know to the full what
I am saying, and remember I am no inexperienced
girl of sixteen, speaking without
book, but a woman of five-and-twenty,
whose whole life has been one of bitter
trouble, and harsh, stern, dark experience.
I say no more to you than I did to dear,
blind, old Professor Merton, whom I lately
served, and he was more helplessly dependent
on others than, in God's mercy,
I hope you will ever be. I have suffered
so much, that suffering appeals to me
beyond all else, in whatever form it comes
before me."

Noble words of a noble heart, and Douglas
covered his eyes for a moment, too deeply
touched to utter more than a low, unsteady
Thank you," too sharply struck by the
utter contrast between this stranger and his
own flesh and blood to speak. They had
left him always to suffer alone ; this true

woman clung to him for that very suffering's
sake and something of what held him silent
Gabrielle Albany read even then. But ina
few minutes Douglas dropped his hand,
and turned round once more with that
sweet, bright smile of his.

And now we understand each other,
Mrs Albany ; and tomorrow, may I hope
from this hour, will date for both of us a
brighter life ? I know it will for me. Do
you wonder why I chose this floor for my
suite of rooms instead of those below ? "

Because," she answered at once, pointing
out of the window, " here you get the
full effect of that beautiful view mapped
out ; below you would feel more shut in."

** Ay, you take it exactly ; and, besides,
I hate the rooms below these. They were
the schoolrooms and playgrounds, and all
that ; they are not used now unless, perhaps,
they have some young fry at Christmas.
Nobody inhabits this wing now but
me and mine ; all the sleeping apartments

in use are quite away from us. Myself and
Harford — my man — and now yourself, are
the only people who sleep in this west wing
unless there are many guests, and then a
few of the guest - chambers are ' requisitioned
; ' so my father had that lift made
in the hall, which easily takes my wheel-chair
down, and all my apartments thrown
en suite. Look — behind that curtain is the
door (all wide for my chair or sofa) which
opens to my dressing-room, then my sleeping
apartment, and beyond that Harford's room."

Does his room open from yours, then ? "
asked Gabrielle.

No ; there, opposite, those two immense
mirrors are really sliding doors that go
back into the wall, and open into another
large salon, half study, half dining-room ;
but this is my favourite room, as I suppose
you will tell me you knew, without my
telling you."

*' I need not be very clever to know
that," said Gabrielle, smiling, " or to see

that you are a connoisseur in art, and a
musician too."

He laughed at that — such a rich, soft
laugh, and answered, —

I can retort on all points, I think, and
I will prove it at the first opportunity. I
suppose I shall not see you again, though,
this evening, after you go down to dinner % "
This rather wistfully.

I will come back to you, Mr Glen-Luna,
directly dinner is over, if you wish it."

No, no ; that would be selfish of me ;
stop with them this evening. I cannot,
must not, make you as much a prisoner as
I am myself. Here comes Powell to fetch
you to the drawing-room," as the lady's
maid appeared ; " isn't it so, Powell ? "

Yes, sir, please, with my lady's compliments,
as Sir Arthur and Miss Jessie are
with her there now."

Ah, qa, then au revoir, Mrs Albany."

*' For a couple of hours," she said, touching
his hand, and followed Powell.

VERY TENDER HEARTED.

'ADY GLEN-LUNA met Gabrielle
at the door of the drawing-room,
and in her pretty unceremonious
way introduced her to her husband and
daughter ; the latter a second edition of
herself on a rather large scale ; the former
a fine, powerfully-built, hearty speaking
man of sixty, who was happiest hunting,
fishing, shooting, and such like, and could
in nowise understand how his son had
always loved and lived the life of great
capitals, and travelling here and there and
everywhere, instead of a country life, which
he knew Douglas hated like poison — the

fact was, society had petted and spoiled
him. Petted its handsome, brilliant favourite
certainly had been, but the " spoiling " had
been beyond society's power.

I'm delighted to welcome you amongst
us, Mrs Albany," said Sir Arthur, giving
her hand such a very friendly shake, that it
nearly wrung it off. *' I hope you had an
agreeable journey ; — but my little wife tells
me you are an old traveller."

I am indeed, Sir Arthur ; often, too, in
regions and in a fashion that, I suppose,
few women have experienced. Forty-eight
hours in the saddle in the wilds of Mexico,
with scarcely any rest, was not quite as
comfortable as a first-class carriage."

How dreadful ! " exclaimed Jessie Glen-luna
; " but what a rider you must be, then !
And were you alone ? "

No," said Gabrielle, and there was a
momentary pained contraction of the brow ;
** I was with my husband. Sir Arthur, you
have a lovely place here."

I am glad you admire it, Mrs Albany ;
and, since you are such a rider, we must
give you a mount, and show you far and
near."

*' And I assure you," laughed Lady Glen-luna,
"that you have risen twenty-fold in
Sir Arthur's estimation by the discovery of
your equestrian powers."

You shouldn't tell tales out of school,
love. My wife and Jessie, Mrs Albany, are
very pretty riders indeed, but not as bold
as I like ; eh, puss ? " patting his daughter's
cheek. " Can't get them to follow hounds.
You, I suppose — "

*not me either, Sir Arthur. I like a
wild ride, but I do not care about hunting
or any country sports."

*' Ah, now, what a shame ! " exclaimed
the baronet, holding up his hands. " You
are as bad as Douglas. You are, then,
urban ; I am rural."

You are lost now, my dear Mrs Albany,"
came Lady Glen-Luna's laughing tones

again. ** I suppose you have never been
in this part of the country before ? "

Never, Lady Glen-Luna ; I have, in
fact, been very little in England. I was
born and lived in Florence till I was six
years old — then sent by my guardian to a
school in the west-end of London — and from
there," she spoke in a very quiet, resolute
matter-of-course way, " when I was just
sixteen I married. I was abroad, out of
England entirely for the next seven years,
and afterwards, when I was Professor Merton's
secretary, we were constantly travelling
on the Continent."

Ah, all that accounts for your accent
being just a little bit foreign," said Sir
Arthur, smiling. " You and Douglas will
certainly find plenty in common, for I never
could keep him in England much from the
time he left college to the day he was brought
home to our London house injured from that
terrible accident, which was nearly two years
ago ; he was eight-and-twenty."

There is some hope of ultimate recovery,
is there not ? " Gabrielle asked.

We hope so ; the physicians all say so,
and he is much better and stronger on the
whole in the last twelve months, though he
is sometimes very exhausted, I fancy ; but
there is still something about the case which
the Faculty haven't quite reached yet. I
know this " — said Sir Arthur emphatically —
that I would give one thousand pounds
down to any doctor who would make my
noble boy what he was again."

It is too good to hope for," said Adeline
Glen-Luna, with a gentle sigh ; and, glancing
tenderly at her, Sir Arthur whispered to
Gabrielle, —

She is such a soft-hearted little thing,
and so fond of Douglas ; she was quite ill
with terror and grief when he was brought
home. It was she who suggested his having
such a lady as yourself for a secretary and
companion."

"Oh, was it?" thought the secretary,

with a keen covert glance at the very
*• tender-hearted little thing." " What
could be her motive ? "

But she only bowed, and was spared a
conventional lie by the announcement of
dinner, which to-day was quite en famille.
Conversation, however, flowed on. Gabrielle
was brilliant, graceful, wonderfully versatile,
always the clever, cultured woman of the
world and travel ; to each and all she attuned
herself with the winning grace of ^
fine nature whose very charm was its utter
absence of the least art, or effort to win.
But after dinner was quite over she only
remained in the drawing-room a little while,
and then, saying that she had promised Mr
Glen-Luna to return, bade them adieu for that
evening, and went back to the west wing.

Five minutes after the door had closed,
Lady Glen-luna, lifting her eyes for a
moment from her fancy work, said, —

*' Well, dearest, and how do you like
Madame la Secretaire ? "

VOL. I. D

** The most beautiful, most charming
woman I have ever met," said Jessie —
then she came nearer and sat down on the
sofa by her mother — " but, mamma, I profess
I do not understand you."

No ? why not, love ? " The little white
fingers worked on complacently ; the red
lips, ever smiling, smiled still. 'why don't
you understand me ? "

Why, you did not like papa s taking it
into his head to want Douglas to marry
Hyacinth Lee, and you very cleverly tried
to get off asking her to stay here this coming
autumn."

** Certainly ; because I am sure that Miss
Lee has refused two good offers in these last
two years solely on our dear boy's account,
and if he only asked her she would say
*yes' tomorrow."

*'Do you think he would, then, mamma?"

Adeline laughed softly.

** He might, if she comes here and is
thrown in his way. I should hardly think,

Jessie, that you need to be told why I do
not want Douglas to marry Hyacinth or anyone
else."

'* That is just it, mamma," said her
daughter impatiently, " and yet you, your
own self, have placed about him — flung at
him — such a woman as this, whom you
must see, mamma, it is impossible for any
man to resist."

Again that quiet, intense little laugh, and
fleeting upward glance. ^

No one knows that better than ' mamma,'
most sage little would-be wiseacre ;
but you quite forget, sweetest, that Mrs
Leicester Albany is married — not a widow,
but a wife." .

But that won't prevent any man falling
in love with her," answered Miss Nineteenth
Century promptly.

Oh no ! Oh dear, no, my love ; but
then I really cannot undertake to guard
the heart or morals of a man of thirty.
And scamps like I am sure this Albany is,

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF iLLINOIS

always live for ever, just because every one
wishes them dead. Of course," Lady Glen-luna
turned to get the fading light full on
her work, " it would be dreadfully wicked
to fall in love with another man's wife.
Oh ! very dreadful, and sad ; and he never
could marry her, especially sad," she said
slowly, " as if — if he did, he would never
marry at all. Dear Douglas has his faults,
but one of his grandest, noblest, good
points is a heart as faithful as a woman's,
more than most women's ! Bah I but
why meet troubles half-way with absurd
romantic fancies and anticipations of what
I really have no fear of ? King for Dawson
to light the chandeliers."

But Jessie understood mamma a little
better now, and set her down as a clever
woman.

So she was, for she knew how to reckon
on the good as well as wrongful passions of
the complex human heart. Tender-hearted
little thing !

ON DANGEROUS GROUND.

Gabrielle ALBANY easily
>^-^ found her way back through the

^ :2S^W\ labyrinth of passages by which
she had come, and regained the precincts
in which Douglas had said she was to make
her home.

As she reached the corridor, a tall, very
powerfully-built man of forty, dressed in
black, with a good-looking and most pleasing
face, came out of the salon, caught
sight of Gabrielle, and came up to her,
with a profoundly respectful salute.

I beg your pardon, madam, for the
liberty of addressing you first, but there i

something which perhaps you might like
to know of, as only us three are in this
wing at night. I am Harford, Mr Douglas's
own courier. See here, Mrs Albany,
this thick, red bell-pull, high up against the
wall."

I see it ; I can reach it, being tall," she
answered. " What is it ? what does it ring,
Harford % "

An alarm bell, madam," said the mana
little significantly she fancied. '' It hangs
high up on the clock tower, and if rung
would pretty soon wake all the rest of the
household away in the east wing, and the
folks down in Doring too, as sure as my
name is William Harford. It's as well to
know all this, ma'am, that's all, when were
got some one so helpless and so very precious
as the young master to take care of."

It is, indeed, Harford ; thank you for
telling me ; but what do you fear ? " — this,
to try and get at the man's thought, if any
definite one there was.

Well, ma'am, there might be thieves or
fifty things in a country house, you see,
and one can't be too much on one's guard
in this world, ma'am, where there's so many
wolves in sheep's clothing."

As he said that slowly he looked up
straight in her face, and their eyes met
full for one moment ; his searching, anxious,
gauging her ; hers steadfast, deep, perfectly
reading the man's doubt and fear and
meaning.

So for a minute she stood, and therewith
a quiet, significant smile creeping over
her firm, chiselled lips she asked a question.


Have you been long in Mr Douglas's
service, Harford ? "

Ever since he came of age, madam,
and went travelling."

Ah ! then I suppose you are very much
attached to him ? "

"Well, ma'am, I couldn't say much in
words," said the man simply; "but there

ain't a living being I love as I do my
master. I can't think how anyone that's
much with him could help it. If I may
make so bold, ma'am, as to say so, I'm very
glad you have come, for he won't be left
alone now ; and he's so patient, and never
complains neither."

Sir Arthur seems fond of his son," said
Gabrielle, without directly answering the
last remark.

** So he is, madam ; and he most generally
sees Mr Douglas for a short time everyday,
but I think — " The man paused
hesitatingly.

She laid her hand — that soft, delicate, and
singularly nervous hand of hers — on his
arm for a moment, and looking full into his
face, said, —

You may trust me, Harford, as you do
yourself. I was a total stranger to the
very existence of every one in this house
until I answered that advertisement. I ama
woman who has lived in the world entirely,

and never lead eyes or ears or one sense
closed, who can see when many would be
blind, and read between the lines ; I understand
you, and I think now you understand
me. / am absolutely in your master's
service. ^^

She dropped her hand and moved on
with her light, noiseless step to the salon,
which was now brilliantly lighted up. The
door still stood ajar, and the moment she
entered Douglas half lifted himself eagerly.

I heard your voice in the corridor ; how
good of you to come back to me ; and I am
sure that you must be very tired ; sit down
in that little, low easy-chair."

Thank you, Mr Glen-Luna " — she drew
the chair into the window near him and
sat down, ** but I am not tired — not very,
at any rate. I was speaking to your courier,
Harford, outside."

I know you were. I am sure you will
like him, Mrs Albany ; he is the best, the
most faithful, the most unwearied of beings''

I am sure of that," Gabrielle answered
quietly ; 'ewe have quite made friends
already. And what a fine, powerful man
he is."

"Is he not ? I assure you he lifts me
up almost as easily as if I were — a child I
had almost said ; it is half knack, of course,
and I am very light — always was for a
man."

I should think so, for though tall you
are so slight," said his beautiful companion,
smiling. " Harford seems devoted to you."

Foi ! you must not believe the quarter
he says of me, Mrs Albany," said Douglas,
colouring and laughing a little. " I don't
believe he sees a fault in my very faulty
self; he does his best to make me the most
vain, selfish, and spoiled of mortals."

** I don't believe anything would make
you that," thought Gabrielle, glancing at
the handsome, loyal face, thrown out into
such clear relief against the crimson cushions
on which it lay, but aloud she said, —

I like him all the better for the grand
old feudal feeling, so rare and so refreshing
in these days, but I suppose he comes of
good yeoman stock ; you, by your name,
should be of Highland descent."

C'est vrai, madame, we are a very
ancient Highland race, faithful always to
the Stewart. My ancestor was a younger
son and followed James I. to England, and
his son, in the first year of King Charles
the Martyr, married the heiress of these
lands. Jessie is called after her."

Is she ? I suppose your sister is a
great deal with you ? "

The magnificent grey eyes drooped.

Oh no, not much ; of course they have
much visiting to do, and it is so dull for her
up here."

He said it quietly, but the restless movement
of pain or weariness was involuntary,
so restless that the cushions slipped uneasily.

Before he could even run the chance of
hurting himself, by an attempt to replace

them, Gabrielle was bending over him with
a gentle, " Let me do it," and, passing her
arm around his shoulders, lifted him so as
to rest against her, while she shook and
replaced the cushions. He tried to move,
fearful of tiring her, but suddenly the
beautiful head sank back heavily on her
breast, the dark eyes closed, a moan of pain
quivering over the lips, yet one loved name
first on them in this half unconsciousness.

Mother ! "

Oh, how it wrung her very heart to hear
that name ; to see this young, strong man,
lying on her bosom as helpless as the infant
whose few weeks' fitful life had died out
these years ago ! And hot tears fell on the
statuesque face even as she bathed the
deathly brow and lips with the eau de
Cologne she always carried about her.
Consciousness had never quite been lost,
and as her soft breath fanned the fragrant
essence on his cheek, the colour came faintly
back, the grey eyes opened, the lips moved.

*' It is like — my mother ! I thought —
is it?"

Hush ! only Gabrielle Albany."

'* Gabrielle — is that ? Ah, it is passing 1
Lay me back ; give me your hand."

She laid him gently back, and kneeling
down beside him, put her soft, firm hand
into his, which closed round it instantly ;
and for some minutes he lay like that, perfectly
still and silent. Then without loosing
her hand, the large eyes opened again
full on hers, as he spoke strongly, distinctly
now, with an emotion he could not crush.

How good you are ! Forgive me ; it
was all my fault. I forgot again, as I too
often do, that I am not what I was. My
movement was too reckless, too quick, for
the spine, I suppose, and brought back
temporarily the agony of pain I used to
have at first. It is that no doctor has yet
quite got at. If they could — did I speak
just now ? Something that pained, wounded
you, I fear ; for surely — Ah, forgive me

for the tears ! I would sooner suffer any
pain than cause pain to any woman ! "

Oh, hush ! it was nothing, only my own
weakness," she said, bowing her face on the
hand that still held hers. " You only said
one word that — that once, for a few weeks,
was mine — mother ! And the bitterest
sting was that I had to thank God for
taking it."

Douglas made no answer in words ; but,
if ever the clasp of loyal hand spake more
than any lexicon or grammar, his did then,
and forged a chain of sympathy which no
after blow could ever have severed ; only
presently he said softly, —

I thought it was my mother, for a few
moments. Your touch, your voice are like,
oh! so like, and — and — she died when
I was a boy, quite a boy ! I am glad you
are like her. I can talk to you of her, and
take you to her grave."

A quick, grateful look into his face, a low-spoken
*' Thank you ! " and Gabrielle rose.

You know now," Glen-Luna added, as
she resumed her seat at his side, ^' why I
have never called Adeline mother ? "

**I think I knew it before this," she
answered softly ; and Douglas understood
her.

Were both not walking unconsciously on
dangerous ground ?

A FURTHER INSIGHT.

HE new inmate of Luna Park was
up early, according to her usual
custom, and in her own elegant
sitting-room, arranging her desk and music
books. Of the wondrous mass of " unconsidered
trifles " and useless nicknames and
fancy articles which ordinarily spring into
the light and bestrew a room in the first
five minutes after a lady's pet box is opened
Gabrielle had none ; she cared nothing for
such nonsense, and in her wandering, unhappy
life had gathered about her none of
those things that are simply in the way, to

one especially who has no headquarters.
She had never had hearth or Lares.

The family breakfast hour was nine ; that
of Douglas Glen-Luna, she naturally supposed,
would be later, or, at least, variable ;
but just before eight there came a gentle
tap at the door.

Come in," she said, and Harford appeared
on the threshold.

Good morning, madam. The master
heard you moving long ago, and sent me
with, his compliments to ask if you would
do him the honour to breakfast with him at
eight. He is always early."

** I shall have great pleasure in joining
him, Harford, if you will tell him so, with
my compliments. How is he ? "

Why, Mrs Albany, more like his own
bright, laughing self before the accident
than I've ever seen him since it, till now.
I wish you had been with us all along,
ma'am; for I believe it's half fret and
loneliness — the mental suffering, you know,

VOL. I. E

ma'am, that has kept him back ; and of
course, when a man is down like that, it's
just a woman he wants about him constantly.
I admit that it isn't one in a
thousand that would suit Mr Douglas ; and
I'm equally sure, if I may make so bold,
ma'am, that you are just that one in the
thousand."

She smiled openly ; the faithful man was
certainly " a character " — an odd mixture of
naivete and shrewdness, with quick strong
likes and dislikes.

Time alone will show that, Harford. 1
will certainly do my best, and not lightly
leave. Now, I will go to him."

Harford drew deferentially back, and Mrs
Albany passed out into the salon. It was
empty ; but the inner doors were slid back,
and within lay another beautiful apartment
to which Gabrielle turned at once.

Not on a couch yet, at any rate, but reclining
on that dainty light-wheeled chair,
was handsome Douglas Glen-Luna, and his

start and flush of pleasure was in itself an
eloquent welcome, as she came forward and
frankly clasped his hand.

*' How are you this morning, Mr Glen-luna
? You had no return of that terrible
pain, I hope ? "

Oh, no, no ; thank you ; it was all my
fault. How good of you to commence your
troublesome charge so early. Mrs Albany,
you are surely gifted with a physical strength
much above most women, especially such a
slight, delicately-made woman as you are"'

*'I am so; but what makes you say so,
Mr Glen-Luna ? "

Why, last evening you raised me on one
arm, and held me so easily, so strongly
without any effort or heave up. A weaker,
less firm touch or hold would have much
increased the agony."

"It is yet one more reason," she said,
for me to be thankful that I am so strong.
It has stood me in good stead many a time
in my life."

Douglas leaned his head back against the
cushions behind him and said, playing with
his silky moustache as he watched her
graceful movements, —

I should think you are the very coolest,
bravest of mortals in danger."

Merci bien, monsieur, for your good
opinion," she half smiled, as she put his
coffee cup beside him ; but there was both
pain and bitterness in that smile, for the
dire tests to which both coolness and courage
had been put so severely.

Douglas noticed both, and, with graceful
ease and courtesy, turned the subject.

Well," he said lightly, " I hope you will
not need either here much, except if you
dare to ride my fiery Arab, or drive a pair
of blood horses in my phaeton, for I am sure
you are great in both those lines, and fond
of it too," he added laughingly, " for your
eyes sparkle at the mere mention."

You are very quick, Mr Glen-Luna ;
it would indeed be a pleasure, only, surely

you are jesting ! You must not take my
powers on trust ; your own favourite horses,
too."

"I do not think I need be afraid, Mrs
Albany, either for you or the horses," he
answered, pulling the stalk off a magnificent
strawberry ; '' and I assure you I
thereby pay you as high a compliment as
I shall presently by begging you to try my
piano. Of course I have neither ridden
nor driven for eighteen months, and, saVe
my groom to exercise him, no one but
myself has ever mounted Hassan, my beautiful
Arab. He would carry you splendidly !
And the chesnuts ! Would not you like
them out this morning for a drive ? "

Mr Glen-Luna, I must answer you after
the style of Queen Anne's lady, when she
was asked the hour — ' Whatever time your
majesty pleases !' "

But your tell-tale eyes betray you,
Mrs Albany," said Douglas wickedly ; and
Gabrielle laughed.

** Yours are far too keen ; I must veil
mine, I see, when I answer you. I suppose
you drive out every day ? "

'• No," he said, shaking his curly head. " I
have not done so ; it was miserable, lonely,
dull work — and — and I shrank horribly
from meeting any one I had known ; I have
tried to shut away the outward world."

How perfectly she understood the man's
feeling, how her woman's heart ached for
him, and swelled with passionate resentment
against the sister, at least, who should have
made his life so different. How could they !
oh, how could they so cruelly neglect one
so gentle, so suffering, so helpless ? The
indignant cry had almost risen to her lips,
but she crushed it, and laid her hand on
his, with a touch that came like a tender,
exquisitely sympathetic touch on a delicate
musical instrument.

You have let yourself grow morbid,"
she said very gently, " but I must change
all that now."

Now I' Douglas repeated, " it is all
changed already ; driving out, going in
the park with you will be a pleasure, a
relief. These very rooms look different
to-day ! They have been a prison. I had
grown so weary, oh, so weary of everything
; I could not read for ever, reader as
I am ; the mind wants, craves for companionship,
a kindred mind, even in the
blessed world of books. I could not even
write half as much as my thoughts flowed,
for they will not let me sit up for long at
a time, and then I grew sick of my own
presence. Jessie and her mother, no doubt,
have so many claims, far more than mine,
upon their time ; and little Jessie, too, is
young and gay, and naturally likes society ;
my dull rooms could only be a prison to her,
and besides, my pursuits and favourites of
art and literature are not hers. I should
only bewilder and weary her, and she —
well, it is my fault, I know — she would
fret and jar every chord ; it is wrong in

me to be absurdly sensitive and morbid,
but — but — Ah, forgive me, dear Mrs Albany,
for making such a father confessor of you ;
it seems as if I had known you for years
instead of hours."

'' Thank you."

She turned aside a moment in silence,
masking a deep emotion which is far more
easily stirred in those that have suffered
much than in those whose lives have been
comparatively free from trial. Those who
have wept for their own dead can more
readily weep for another's dead.

His noble self-abnegation, the very generosity
and utter unselfishness of his attempt
to shield his sister and stepmother, only
unconsciously laid yet more bare to Gabrielle
their selfishness and neglect, over
which they threw the veil of words, as
flimsy to her as to their object, however
he might try to gloss it over to himself
and others.

*' Say to me what you will," she said after

that pause. " I shall not misunderstand
you, or — "

She bit her lip as the word " them " rose,
and added " others."

When the servant came to remove the
breakfast equipage, his master gave the
order for his park phaeton and chesnut
pair to be ready at ten.

The blood horses, sir, what you have
out in the carriage ? " asked the man.

Yes, Mrs Albany will drive there ;
and tell Harford to be in attendance on
horseback, for " — he added, turning to
Gabrielle with a smile — *' though I would
not care, I suppose you would not like
the responsibility of both horses and
master, at least until you are used to
them."

Thank you for your consideration, Mr
Glen-Luna ; certainly a pair of spirited
horses are not like quiet park ponies, and
the charge is far too precious to be risked to
the least chance of an accident. Now, shall

I wheel you into your favourite window
in the next room ? "

You shall do nothing so — "

Very easily accomplished," said his
autocratic attendant, putting her hand on
the handle of the light, silent, wheeled
chair, and pushing it, with hardly more
than a touch, into the salon, bringing it to
anchor near his sofa.

Fairly run away with," said he, laughingly,
looking up in her face, " but needs
must when beauty drives. I am afraid,
Mrs Leicester Albany, that you have a will
of your own, and really intend to make me
feel its power."

Quite right, Mr Douglas Glen-Luna,
for I see there is much reformation needed
in you, and there is nothing like — "

Training up a child in the way it should
go," said he, laying his head contentedly
back. " Faith, fair autocrat, I have no objection
to your rule — to fetters of gold and
flowers."

'' But the gold of the fetters is alloyed
with harder, baser metal, and the flowers
have thorns sometimes."

You can't frighten me, Mrs Albany ;
I don't think there is much of the ' baser
metal ' or thorns either about you."

As he spoke, a step came along the gallery,
a tap at the door, and Jessie, looking
wonderfully pretty in her light muslin,
came in.

Good morning, Douglas ; and how safe
you, Mrs Albany ? Breakfast is on table."

Thank you, Miss Glen-Luna ; but, as
I am an early riser, your brother kindly
asked me to join him. We are going to
drive out almost directly."

Are you ? I am so glad," said Jessie,
so exactly with her mother's manner, that
Gabrielle could well have boxed her ears.
We never could get him out much, though
the doctors all said he ought to. Naughty
Douglas ! By-the-bye, dear, it's quite true
that Mr Parker has given up his practice

in Doring for the present, on account of his
health, and another gentleman has come to
his house and place."

Indeed ! you chattering puss ; some
fascinating young fellow, I suppose, for you
girls to flirt with, eh ? " laughed Douglas.

Isn t he impudent, Mrs Albany? Well,
to be sure, they say he is handsome, very
clever, and — "

Very old," put in Glen-Luna.

No, sir ; only about thirty-five."

Dear creature ; and what is the name
belonging to this interesting biped —
Brown ? "

You are a goose, Douglas ! Brown,
indeed ! It's Dr Chandos Neville. We
shall see him, of course, on Sunday, at
church."

Perhaps he's an infidel, my dear ; sure
to have funny notions if he's at all scientific
or philosophic," declared Douglas, ofi" hand,
"or at five - and - thirty, of course, he's
married — horrible idea ! "

*' Oh no ; he's not," said Jessie promptly,
and Douglas fairly burst out laughing.

Ma foi, you took care to ask that, then,
ma'amselle."

Oh ! Mrs Albany may flirt with him,"
laughed Jessie ; " she has had more experience
than I have, I daresay, being
married."

Your feminine tongue runs too fast,
little Jessie," said Glen-Luna, as his quick
glance saw Leicester Albany's wife shiver.
Eun away to your breakfast, child, or
father will be vexed."

Ta-ta, then," cried Jessie, and vanished,
just as Harford came in to announce the
phaeton.

CHAPTER VII.

A DRIVE.

OUGLAS GLEN-LUNA's exqui-
sitely-appointed equipage — the
elegant phaeton, the magnificent
horses, in their glittering silver
-might well have been the admiration
and envy of the country.

The wheeled chair was standing empty
in the hall, and its owner already in the
phaeton, when Gabrielle, in her graceful
plumed hat, and drawing on her riding
gloves, came out.

'' Oh, they are beauties, indeed ! " she
exclaimed, patting the arching neck of the
one nearest her, and the noble animal tossed

his head, trammelled by no cruel bearing
rein, and turning his great lustrous eyes on
her, perfectly aware not only of the caress,
but of the admiration.

Ah, how can any one ill-treat those noble,
faithful friends of man — horses and dogs !
The groom at the head looked as proud
as a peacock, and Douglas's smile was full
of pleasure.

I think you will hardly know what to
say to Hassan, Mrs Albany, or my collie
dog, whom I hope to have back from the
veterinary surgeon ; he cut his foot the
other day, poor dog ! Of course you are
fond of dogs ? "

Very, very fond of them," she answered,
as she stepped in and gathered up the
ribbons ; and then Harford mounted, the
groom stepped back, and the whole equipage
swept off in splendid style down the
stately avenue up which she had come the
day before, Harford riding a little distance
ahead.

I want to see Doring," said the fair
driver ; " it is a very picturesque little
town, is it not ? "

Very ; but — you are not going to drive
right through Doring ? " He winced visibly
at the thought.

** If you will not forbid me, Mr Douglas.
I want to break the cordon of morbidness
that has been drawn round you ; and, believe
me, the ordeal will not be so terrible
as it looks. Will you trust me ? "

What man — least of all, the chivalrous
Glen-Luna — could have resisted those beautiful
eyes, that soft, pleading voice ?

How could I possibly say you nay ? "
he said. " I am always a ready slave to
beauty's wishes. Forgive me, dear Mrs
Albany, if I say all sorts of pretty things to
you, for it's second nature ; and if you
only knew how dreadful it is not to
have any one to say them to for eighteen
months ! "

It was said with such whimsical energy

that Gabrielle rippled into an irresistibly
amused laugh.

If that is such a grievance, pray make all
the pretty speeches that come to your ready
tongue, and I'll try to devoutly believe them
real — shall I ? I wonder how many compliments
you have uttered in your life ? "

Oh, ma foi ! — thousands, of course," said
he coolly, opening his great dark eyes wide
at her ; " a fellow must, you know."

** Raiment, monsieur ! — so many, I suppose,


That neither history nor song
Can count them all.'

Ah, the river ! How beautiful, how tempting
it looks in this glorious sunshine ! "

Would you like to drive back round to
the boathouse, and have out the steam
launch ? " said Douglas at once.

Oh no, thank you ; not now. Is that
the outskirt of Doring just ahead ? "

She pointed her right hand to some
dainty picturesque houses, evidently belong-vol.

I. F

ing to well-to-do people, bedded amongst
trees and gardens giving on to the road.

Yes ; and do you see that pretty white
house, covered with clinging roses, and a
tiny verandah ? "

Yes." In fact, the horses' heads were
almost alongside the gates. " Whose is it ? "

It was old Mr Parker's, the principal
doctor in Doring," Glen-Luna answered ;
*but, if Jessie is right, this new man,
Dr Chandos Neville, has just domiciled
himself there. Look — there is a lady in
the garden."

As the phaeton passed, the lady turned
and saw it, and its very striking occupants.

What a sweet - looking woman," said
Gabrielle. " I wonder who she is ? She
looks about fifty, but she cannot be the
doctor's mother ; she looks so plainly a
maiden lady. I should like — "

"Go on ; tell me what ? " said Douglas,
glancing at the picturesque beauty of the
woman at his side.

** Forgive me ; I was forgetting."

** What ? That you are to say to me
whatever you please ? '*

Ah, no ! not that ; you are too kind,
I was only going to say that 1 should like
to know that lady, whoever she is."

*' Perhaps she returned the compliment,"
said Glen-Luna.

She flushed for a moment, and then said,
with a cynical bitterness, the more intense
from its quietness, " She will not if, or
when, she knows what I am. Women are
merciless on a wife separated from her
husband ; it is always her fault."

I am afraid you are right in the main ;
but," he said, with a flash in the grey eyes,
no one had better say so to me."

Why not ? " she said quickly, with the
same ring of intensely bitter pain in her
low, mellow tones. " After all, what do you
know of me or my past life, but what has
come from myself ? "

*' Nothing, certainly," was the quiet answer;

"neither do I wish or care to know
anything from any other source. And of
yourself I judge for myself. I have never
yet been deceived, and I am not now."

The deep grey eyes were looking dreamily
out before him as he said that, as if they
saw afar off, into that past life to which she
had alluded — into the untold misery and
cruel wrongs that had so terribly embittered,
perhaps well-nigh wrecked, her young life.
She made no answer for some minutes ; but
the firm hand on the reins shook for a
minute, and the sensitive lips quivered, as
she said, half under her breath, —

*' But you are a man, and, pardon me,
your very chivalry of gentleman makes you
too lenient to a woman."

*nay, I think a man can never be too
lenient to a woman, Mrs Albany."

Her breast heaved, and her eyes filled,
but she said nothing, — she dared not, he
saw ; and presently, with her exquisite
womanly tact, turned the subject, as, following

Harford ahead, she turned her horses
into Doring High Street, a wide irregular
mixture of shops and houses. Of course,
heads went round, or looked out of windows,
and tongues wagged quickly enough
as the " young master " and his singular
companion drove past — he for the first time
since his accident, — and plentiful food was
gathered in for that queer meal which the
good ladies of a country town fondly
imagine is " five o'clock." ♦

Talking now, and laughing too, in good-natured
amusement at " countries," the
two town-bred occupants of the carriage
drove on right through the market-place,
and so away again into the open country,
with ever-changing views of " hill and wold
and river," at every turn of the road, till at
length, on the summit of a hill, they could
see Luna Park, with its rich woods and
winding river, miles away behind them.

How the road narrows here," Gabrielle
remarked presently. " It would be quite

impossible for two vehicles to pass here,
would it not ? If one came round that turn
ahead."

Douglas's answer was a laugh, and a hand
pointing ahead as, round that very turn,
came a dashing horse and trap, driven by a
gentleman, with a page at his side.

All saw the situation in a moment. Harford
stopped short. Mrs Albany drew up
her spirited horses splendidly, and the
gentleman, pulling up sharply, sprang to
the ground and came up to the phaeton,
lifting his hat to the handsome and very
distingue looking occupants.

I really must beg pardon," he began,
and then the ludicrousness of the contretemps
was irresistible. All three broke
into a laugh, and even Harford gave vent
to a respectfully smothered, decorous little
sound.

* A regular fix,' " said Glen-Luna ; then,
slightly raising himself from his half-reclining
position amongst the cushions,

'' what is to be done ? There is no siding
for a long way, I think."

I will back my trap to a gate just round
the turn," said the stranger. " I am so sorry
to keep a lady waiting."

Pray, do not mention it," she answered,
smiling ; '' it will give the horses a rest."

You are very kind to put it so, madam,
said the stranger, glancing at the beautiful
face as he stepped back. " I will be as
quick as possible."

But Harford, who had dismounted, seeing
that Gabrielle had the horses well in hand,
threw his bridle over a bush bough in the
hedge, and turned, touching his hat.

I will help you, sir, if you will allow

me."

'thank you, very much; but perhaps

your master and mistress — "

Douglas's musical tones struck pleasantly

across, —

*' Will both be pleased for you to accept
assistance in such a troublesome job. My

horses are quite safe," — adding, with, an
amused smile to Gabrielle, as the two
men went off, —

Handsome fellow, and looks clever. I
wonder if he is the new doctor Jessie so
recommended to your powers of captivation
? Don't you feel tempted to try, Mrs
Albany?"

She laughed, and answered lightly, with
her expressive foreign shrug, —

Ma foi, monsieur, I will not interfere
with Jessie's fun."

You certainly would prove a dangerous
rival ; I'm afraid little Jessie would not
have a chance, pretty as she is."

Why not ? Some people prefer daisies
and buttercups to exotics."

Yes ; some men do."

Clearly the speaker was not one of
them.

** There is a frightful lot of humbug
talked sometimes about it," he added.
*' Wild flowers are all very well in their

place, but after all, they cannot compare to
their cultivated brethren any more than
their two prototypes in human nature can
bear it. Why the wild flower should be
more ' innocent ' than the rarest black rose
or richest tropic beauty of culture's own
rearing, or the taste for the first be more
pure than the love of the last I cannot see.
God made them both. It is exactly the
same cant as the school which talks of the
desperate vice of town and the sweet innocence
of the country. Bah ! They should
say ' ignorance ' instead. I have not been
a saint any more than my neighbours ; IVe
knocked about half over the world — in towns
and out of towns — and seen enough of the
wickedness of both, and I never could find
out that in any one way the cities were
greater sinners ; rather the other way, for
country vice is coarse and ignorant, its crime
both stupid and brutal — extra counts against
the ' innocent purity' of rurality, I think."
I thoroughly go with you, Mr Douglas,

both in opinion and experience, and mine
has given me right enough to know." She
added that half to herself with a smothered
sigh, then looked up with a restless movement
and a little laugh. " But how oddly
we have strayed from Jessie and our stranger.
Here comes Harford."

The courier came up, saluting.

It's all right now, madam, if you'll please
drive on slow and keep the off side of the
road as much as you can."

He loosed his own horse, mounted, and
rode forward, the carriage following to where
the gentleman's trap stood, crushed close to
a gate in the hedge, so as just to allow
room, with care, for the phaeton to pass.

Courteous thanks and adieux were exchanged,
and the two parties each went on
their opposite ways.

I believe I guess who that young fellow
is," muttered the stranger, looking after the
retreating carriage. I've heard of him
already. What a cruel thing that such



strength and perfect beauty should be laid
low. It can't be hopeless. I wish I had
charge of him, by heaven, if he were too
poor to pay a pound ! I do, as sure as my
name is Chandos Neville ! "

ITS NO BUSINESS OF MINE.

Remember once hearing recited
a very clever serio-comic
piece in verse, setting forth the
manner in which a pair of country ladies,
over their " dish " of tea, began by picking
holes in the bonnet of a certain neighbour,
and ended by entirely taking away
her character.

1 think that all these sort of coteries were
invented by Lucifer as a happy thought to
fill up all the odd corners of wickedness,
just as the German toy makers, in packing
their exporting boxes, fill up all the spaces
and corners with those fascinating carved-wood

animals made by the children of the
Black Forest, which we all remember as the
delight of our childish days.

Look at that coterie of Doring ladies,
seated over afternoon tea — one can hardly
call it by the fashionable name of " five
o'clock " — on the pretty lawn of Mrs Winstanley's
house, not far from the new
doctor's residence. None of these fair ones
were on visiting terms at the Hall, of
course, but some happy few of them, the
hostess for one, enjoyed the honour of a
bowing acquaintance with " that sweet
little thing," Lady Glen-Luna, who will
often, if she meets them about, or sees
them at their gate, stop her pony chair,
and have a chat, when there is anything
she wants passed about. But this is between
ourselves ; when she didn't care for
that, the bright metallic treble would only
cry out cheerily : " Ah, how do, dear Miss
Chataway ? how's the school ? such a hurry,
ta, ta."

But to-day, only about two hours after
that carriage had driven through the little
town, both my lady and her daughter
had been seen to stop Mrs Winstanley in
the market-place, and talk to her " for ever
so long," no doubt all about this new inmate
of the Hall, about whom all the tongues had
wagged and surmised already, on such information
as could be obtained from the
back stairs.

Saw them, my dear?" said Miss Chat-away,
pursing up her lips, " of course I did,
though he's never been out beyond the park
before I believe, and yet, here, the very
second day this ^ secretary ' forsooth, comes
there they are right through the town, she
driving, an' it please you, — nothing less than
his own favourite blood horses will suit
madam ; these foreigners are so impudent."

Is she foreign ? " asked another lady,
setting down her tiny teacup.

She looks it, and has all that sort of
manner, you know. My dear, depend upon

it, she's no stranger to monsieur, it's someone
he's known abroad."

I daresay you are right, Miss Chataway.
I don't believe young Glen-Luna was a
saint," put in Mrs Orde, the wife of the
rival doctor to Mr Parker, who had never
been sent for to the Hall, "and I think
that her ladyship must be very — ahem ! —
innocent to allow such a dashing, handsome
girl-here

Mrs Winstanley, big with superior
knowledge, turned round.

My dear Mrs Orde, she is not so young
as she looks; Mrs Leicester Albany has
been married these nine years, ran away at
sixteen, and had to get a separation two
years ago. Lady Glen-Luna told me so
herself."

Hum," said the doctor's wife, " I suppose,
then, the truth is that she is a
divorce. It's nonsense to pretend that any
woman who was at all particular would goas
secretary, or anything else, to a single

man. And if she is separated from her
husband, depend upon it, it was her fault,"
Mrs Winstanley rejoined loftily.

Dear Lady Glen-Luna quite knows what
she is about, and, of course, would never
have engaged a lady without — what she
had — the highest references. Why," addressing
another friend, " Mrs Albany was
secretary and travelling companion to the
late Professor Merton."

Really," returned her friend, wisely,
trying to look as if she knew perfectly well
who Professor Merton was, " was she indeed?
And he was — yes, of course — I
see—"

He was blind, you know ; so clever,"
added Mrs Winstanley, who hadn't even
heard the professor's name until that day,
** and thought very highly of the lady."

*' Well, we shall see," said Miss Chataway
sagaciously, *'I don't like your separated
wives. If matters go so far as that, why
not have got a divorce at once and have

done with it ? It only looks as if she dared
not ! Don't it, Mrs Orde ? "

So I think, my dear, and my cook, who
is cousin to the lodge-keeper at the park,
told me that the family are going as usual
for a month to London (Sir Arthur canst
bear London longer), and, of course, this
Mrs Albany will be left here with Mr Glen-luna."


Well, he must have some one, you
see ; and he's really an invalid, and shea
married woman," said Mrs Instantly,
sipping her tea, " and she's been in
California, and is Bohemian, and doesn't
care for these more civilised ideas, I suppose.
It's not my business; and what
sweet Lady Glen-Luna don't mind, I don't,
I'm sure."

I wonder she likes the responsibility of
having such a charge when they're all
away," said Mrs Orde viciously ; and Mrs
Winstanley replied urbanely, —

Oh, but if he is taken ill, I daresay she

VOL. I. Q

would send down at once for Dr Neville.
Are you going already ? "

Of course she was ; that last poke from
the rival leader in the very innocent faction
of the rural town was too much ; and so
Mrs Doctor Orde took leave, and the party
soon after broke up, leaving Mrs Leicester
Albany's name much in the position of snow
just after very dirty hands have touched
it. It was well, and very natural, that the
woman who had suffered such danger to
honour itself was so superbly indifferent to
the petty gossip and scandal which bandied
her name, but could not touch herself. Poor
young thing !

A VERY STRANGE ACCIDENT.

|0 that is your adventure this
morning, is it, brother mine*?
I saw them, too, pass here —
the young lady driving."

A sweet gentle voice, that surely never
spoke harshly of man, woman, or child ;
a broad, fair brow, and soft brown eyes,
that could smile with the merry, or weep
with the sorrowful, knowing what sorrow
was ; a white gentle hand, that had never
drawn her robe from a fallen sister's touch,
but rather been stretched out to save her ;
with quiet movements and noiseless garments,
and silky tresses streaked with silver

threads, coiled round the shapely head ;
and lips that only knew how to soothe
and comfort — that was Rose Neville, of
whom Leicester Albany's unhappy wife
had said that day, — " I should like to
know her," — Chandos Neville's only and
elder sister ; so much older, indeed, for
he was but five-and-thirty, that she had
been sister and mother in one.

Poor young fellow 1 " she added, sighing
; " it made my heart ache to see him.
I guessed it could only be Sir Arthur Glen-luna's
son, of whom we have heard, and
his sister ? "

No, dear," Dr Neville answered ; "for I
actually asked, on my way home. She is
a lady who has just come to be his secretary.
She is married, they tell me ; but
separated from her husband."

Poor young thing ! " said pitying Rose ;
it is a very painful and sad position for a
woman so young and beautiful to be placed
in. Not free, and yet utterly unprotected."

I think the fellow who could be cruel
to such a beautiful wife ought to be
hanged ! " said Chandos vigorously.

Hush ! dear boy," reproved Eose, smiling
; " and did not Mr Parker or someone
tell you that the young man was
injured in a railway accident ? "

"Ay ! in saving a fellow passenger.
Eose—"

Well, dear ? "

Why, I wish etiquette was at Jericho),
for I would give anything to try my
hand with that young fellow ! The old
stationmaster has just been telling me
about him. He says they've had all the
crack physicians and surgeons — of course
they have — but no one has got him beyond
his present point ; there is something
in fault no one has yet reached,
he says. Don't laugh at me, Eose ; but
I believe I'd find it out. I would take
him in hand for nothing, if they'd let
me ; and if — well, of course, it's impossible,

you know ; and no doubt he's under
the care of some big fish."

I wish you could get the chance to try
your skill, my dear. You are clever in all
branches of your noble work ; but if you
have a speciality, it is with spinal complaints.
And I sometimes think, in your
and many other callings, the younger blood
brings fresher knowledge and bolder moves ;
less in a groove''

Just so, Rose. Now, I suspect, for one
thing, that young Glen-Luna has been kept
too everlastingly reclining — reclining till he
is worn and wearied to death, and the whole
general health sinks and gradually gives
way. He is colourless as a marble statue,
and as delicately chiselled. He is a very
slight-built man, I could see ; but it's more
than that. He is wasted ; his features, his
hands are as delicate as a woman's. Cut
down like that at thirty ! Heaven ! it
must be killing the man by inches ! Eose,
if I could have him for a patient, I

would stake my whole reputation on this
case."

Darling Chandos ! how your enthusiasm
does me good to see ! " said Eose, kissing
the broad clear brow so like her own.
Surely your noble wish will be granted in
some way."

I don't know." He got up and
began pacing to and fro the long room ;
for it was after dinner, and they were
in the drawing-room. " We seldom get
our wishes, I think. Bah ! " said he,
ruffling up his curly locks impatiently.
I'm a great fool, Rose. I cannot get
that man's face or voice out of my
head."

Don't try, Chandos," said Miss Neville,
with a quiet smile, as her eyes rested on the
handsome, earnest face of the physician ;
for you are far too tender-hearted ever to
grow callous or fail to feel, even suffer, in
others' sufferings."

** I daresay you are right, Rose ; you

always are, dear. Ha ! what's that ? What
a peal at the bell ! "

So there was, and some vehicle had
stopped at the gate. The next momenta
man's voice at the door asked quickly if
Dr Neville was at home.

Chandos stepped out into the hall at
once, Eose behind him, catching a glimpse
over his shoulder of a groom in dark blue
and silver livery.

*' I am Dr Neville. Who wants me ? "

"Mrs Albany, sir, up at Luna Hall, sent
me off with a trap to fetch you back to Mr
Glen-Luna. There was an accident with
the lift, just at the top, and the master
hurt. It would have been a much worse
jerk, sir, only Mrs Albany was beside his
chair on the lift, and the moment something
broke, and it ran up too quick, she
throned one arm round his shoulder to save
him from the danger, and with the other
caught the gallery rail, sir. Then she and
Harford got the chair off, and lifted the

master on to a sofa in his dressing-room ;
and then he swooned dead o£f, sir, with the
pain, for it shook him, you see, terrible.
Mrs Albany just looked at me, and says,
Fetch Dr Neville, Marston.' "

I'll join you directly."

He vanished into his little surgery at the
back for a few moments, and came back
with a small valise.

"' Good-bye, sister Eose. I am ready,
Marston."

Chandos Neville only asked a few questions
on the short drive.

Where were Sir Arthur and the ladies ? "

The groom answered that they had gone
over to dine at Colonel Eosslyn's place,
some ten miles off, and were not even expected
back that night.

You see, sir, it was like this," explained
Marston, who was Douglas's own groom.
In the evening Mr Douglas and Mrs
Albany (that is his new secretary) was out
in the gardens, she pushing the chair, and

they came round to the stables, 'cause, sir,
he wanted to show her his Arab, Hassan,
that she's to ride. Well, sir, after they'd
gone back to the west wing, where his
rooms and hers are, you know, I picked up
a beautiful gold brooch I had noticed in her
lace kerchief. So I just took it round myself
to give her, and when I stepped into the
west hall door, there was Harford at the top
working up the lift, and they in it. I ran up
the stairs, and had got up beside Harford
(that's Mr Douglas's courier, sir), when the
lift came half way to the level, and then
something below gave way, as I said, and
up it ran awful. It's a good chance I was
there, too, because I took the gear from Harford
and held the lift as Mrs Albany stopped
it, and Harford helped Mrs Albany — who is,
sir, the greatest brick ! " said the groom enthusiastically,
" if you'll pardon me. Most
women would ha' screamed, and never held
him as she did ; but though she went as
white as death — for I'm sure in that horrible

minute we all thought the whole thing
was going to rush up and smash them both
to death — she never moved a muscle or
flinched one hair's-breadth. And strong —
Lord, sir, she is wonderful nerve and strength
for a woman ! To see how she gripped the
chair ! And I verily believe that if Will
Harford hadn't been there, she'd ha' managed
to lift him on to the sofa all herself."

"■ She looks that sort of brave woman,"
said the physician. " I met them eut
this morning. Ah, here we are, thank
Heaven ! "

Another servant was at the open west
wing door, under orders, on the look-out,
and at once conducted the welcome, anxiously
looked-for visitant up to the floor above,
and to the door of the salon, where Harford,
hearing steps, met them, with a glad look
of recognition and deep-breathed " Thank
God! you're come, sir!"

And he led him into the elegant dressing-room.
There, on a wide, low couch, lay

that graceful form, the beautiful head lying
on Gabrielle's left arm, as she knelt beside
him, her own firm, steadfast face scarcely-less
deathly than the one over which she
bent, as she kept softly passing the right
hand, wet with fragrant eau de Cologne, over
temples and brow and round the lips, wetting
even the silky moustache that shaded them.

An invaluable nurse, I can see ! " said
the relieved doctor, stooping down to listen
to the sufferer s breathing. " Has he revived
or spoken at all, Mrs Albany ? "

•' We got him round a little after the
first painful agony had done its work," she
answered quietly ; " but he was not fully
conscious, for the only word he spoke audibly
showed that he took me for his own dead
mother. Then he relapsed again, I think
from sheer exhaustion. His teeth were
set, his hands clenched with agony, when
he swooned. I don't think he is entirely
unconscious."

The physician took up one of those slender

hands in his own soft palm, and laid one
finger on the wrist ; then shook his head,
and turned to his valise.

Yes," he said ; " we must get back full
consciousness before I can see what mischief
is done. A little water in that small wineglass,
please, Harford."

Harford obeyed gladly, and held the glass
for Neville, while he produced a vial from
his case, and dropped some of its contents
into the water." ^

Thanks ! Raise his head higher, please,
Mrs Albany."

She simply lifted it from her arm to her
bosom.

Try if he knows your voice enough to
drink this."

In the same quiet way, like one resolutely
suppressing intense feeling, she took the
glass and held it to the bloodless lips,
bending her head lower as she deliberately
made use of the illusion she had
mentioned.

Drink this, Douglas, for your mother's
sake ! "

Closed, indeed, must be the ear into which
that low, pathetic voice of tender music
could not penetrate, winged with the one
sacred name of a thousand halos, to which
no agony, mental or physical, can ever
entirely deafen the ear or numb the heart
- — " Mother ! " The heavily-fringed eyelids
quivered, the lips parted a little as the
glass touched them ; in a minute she gave
Chandos back the empty glass.

You are a magician ! " he said, smiling.
Keep him as he is, please ; unless you are
tired."

She glanced keenly up in the fine face,
with its bright, full, hazel eyes, and sweet,
firm mouth, and half smiled.

I should not be wearied, if you wished
me to keep your patient like this all night.
I am a tireless nurse."

"I believe that' said Neville, and then
stood with folded arms, watching in anxious

silence for the effect of the powerful restorative
he had administered. Only a few
moments of such suspense, and then a sharp
shiver went through the whole frame, and
one hand was moved restlessly, as if seeking
something. Gabrielle laid hers in it at
once, and his fingers closed round it closely,
with a long-drawn breath over the lips,
which, if faint, was still one of relief; still
half unconscious, he knew at least that that
was the touch he sought.

Is she— safe ? God ! Not killed—
to save me ! " The dark eyes opened
suddenly, with an almost wild look of
horror. " I thought — and then that awful
agony — "

If that beautiful woman's heart ached and
throbbed with bitter, sudden pain, dull and
vague, who knew it but herself as she said
softly, —

Hush, I am safe. You are resting
against me now, and holding my hand —
Gabrielle Albany."

All ! — it is her voice — or — my mother's
she called me just now — "

Dr Neville took up a bottle of salts, and
bent down, holding it cautiously, just
within inhaling distance. A fear possessed
him that the physical shock and agony had
possibly not let the sensitive brain escape
quite unscathed.

"Are you in pain now? Some pillows,
Harford, please."

There was no answer to the question, but
there was a start at the strange voice,
gentle as it was — probably what the clever
doctor meant. He waited a moment until
the pillows were placed to his liking, and
then said, smiling, —

Now, nurse, lay him back."

"It will disturb him, Dr Neville, if I
loose my left hand; he has it so tight."

"Exactly what I want; he must be
roused."

Eh bien, monsieur."

She drew her hand free with some difficulty,

and gently laid him against the
pillows, laying her hand on his brow a
moment.

The movement, the touch, had the desired
effect, for he started again, shivered and
opened his eyes, once more with a strange
look that, going from face to face, half
puzzled and pained, a gradual recognition
growing slowly, as it came back to hers
with a sweet, restful look that made Chances
draw a deep breath of relief. •

Ah, forgive ; I am not worth such
trouble."

You know your nurse, then ? " said the
physician brightly.

A moment's pause, but the hand sought
and clasped hers again ; then the low
languid tones answered, —

Yes, oh yes ; and Harford — "

'' Not me yet, eh ? "

The drooping lids and sweeping lashes
were lifted a moment.

*' Yes, we met you — to-day."

VOL. I. H

"Eight; I am Dr Neville. Are you in
pain now ? "

Not much."

A dull aching % " said Chandos, who had
to an extraordinary degree that rare and
invaluable gift to the physician of exactly
hitting upon the patient's suffering, " such
as comes after a fearful wrench ? "

Yes."

Drink this before we go further."

He mixed a little brandy and water in
the wine-glass and gave it to Gabrielle.

Douglas drank it. He only knew the
fierce agony he had suffered, though perhaps
both tender nurse and physician could
nearly gauge it by the force of the almost
instant deadly swoon and frightful exhaustion
following. As Gabrielle replaced
the empty glass, Neville said, in a low
tone, —

*' I will see now, Mrs Albany, whether
this accident has done more than cause
cruel pain and exhaust strength, if you will

kindly wait in the next room till I come or
call you. Your courage and promptness
has saved him."

The colour flushed her cheek for a moment,
but she only bowed her head and
glided away, closing the door between the
two apartments. As she passed Harford,
Dr Neville saw the two exchange a look
that puzzled and haunted him long afterwards.
What could it mean ?

SISTER rose's words COME TRUE.

HEN Chandos Neville came out
into the salon, Mrs Albany was
standing by the furthest window,
in the full flood of moonlight, her
hands locked loosely before her ; her face,
with all its world of passion and power
beneath the statuesque surface, half uplifted,
the great dark eyes looking out with a
far-ofi" gaze that saw only the gloom and
shadows of her ill-starred life — perhaps
already the deeper, darkest misery of all
that was creeping slow and deathlike upon
her ! But the whole attitude and expression
of face and form struck him very painfully.

So young still — looking almost a
girl — what had been her life, her marriage ?
had she ever cared for the husband from
whom she was separated ?

Well," she said, turning quickly to him,
with an instant change of the mobile face,
what is your opinion ? "

^' That your prompt action has saved him
from at least being crippled for life, Mrs
Albany. That, after a very close and careful
examination, I am satisfied that no
further permanent injury has been added to
that originally done by the railway accident ;
and a few days' care and rest will restore
him to his usual strength."

Thank God."

She turned aside abruptly for a minute,
pressing her small hands on her heaving
breast, almost giving way in the sudden
relief from deadly suspense ; shaken, too,
herself more than she thought by the shock
and strain on her strength, as the physician
saw.

"You need some care yourself," he said
quietly ; but she interrupted him.

No, no ! Hush ! Not me ! Tell me
what you wish done for him."

He must not be moved from where he
is till I come tomorrow morning. He has
on his robe de chambre now, and will do
very well for the night. I hope he will sleep
quietly. There is no need for either you or
Harford to sit up ; but if he will sleep in
the dressing-room too, and you somewhere
within easy call — "

My apartments are just opposite these,"
she interposed; "and there is bell communication
between all these rooms and
mine and the courier's, and I am a very
light sleeper. But let me sit up in here."

Certainly not ! I do not at all think
he will swoon again, or have any return of
that frightful agony or exhaustion consequent
upon it ; but if there is, give him,
yourself, a repetition of the dose you saw
me give."

You will come up early, Dr Neville ? "

I will, indeed. I will remain here all
night if you wish it, Mrs Albany."

You are too kind ! No ; not as you
think it unnecessary. I suppose you know
about the accident ? "

"From Harford; yes. Poor young
fellow ! It would be the greatest happiness
— " He stopped ; bit his lip, and almost
abruptly held out his hand. " Goodnight,
then, Mrs Albany." •

But, instead of giving him her hand, she
laid it on his arm detaining him.

*' Pardon me ! " she said steadily. " I
have been watching you and taking note
ever since you came. I had heard that you
were very clever, and I fully believe it.
Dr Neville, I am going to speak plainly in
the very strongest interest of that man
lying in that room, and I entreat you to
answer me as plainly — setting aside all
motives of professional etiquette and delicacy
which would usually hold you silent,

as absolutely as I do ; all those considerations
and fears of the world which would
make most women shrink from the position
I hold here, and which I do not intend to
resign unless Mr Glen-Luna himself, in
whose service I am, wishes it."

Mrs Albany, I admire your moral courage
as I do your physical bravery," said
Chandos warmly. " Speak as you will ; I
will answer if I can."

Thank you ! Well, it needs hardly to
tell you that no expense has been spared on
Sir Arthur only son; no science left untried
; and yet he is still no further than you
see. There is something that none of your
faculty have quite mastered in this case.
They admit it. They have kept him more
or less lying down — the mind restless,
fretted — a physician must know the whole
truth. Left cruelly to himself, when he
should have had at least one tender, devoted
companion — it has acted on the physique,
and the general strength and health

have suffered." The physician stood now
with very grave brow and downcast eyes,
listening intently. *' The great and very
experienced in any profession sometimes
fall into grooves where the younger, more
vigorous blood strikes out some bolder path
or more daring venture. You start ! "

Pardon me — did I ? My sister's very
words to-night, when we were speaking of
Mr Glen-Luna."

Ha ! you were ? — and the answer you
gave her — "

Mrs Albany ! " Chandos Neville flushed
to his brow and drew back a step, but she
laid both her hands on his with a grasp
more like a man's than a woman's.

Dr Neville, if you think, from your
examination just now, that you can make
Douglas Glen-Luna what he was, in heaven's
name speak out, and on me be the charge."

The passionate force of the woman, that
in its grand earnestness absolutely flung
aside self and what he might think, bore

all hesitation on his part before it, and
made it even seem to him cowardice before
her courage. He looked up, his eyes aglow.

Mrs Albany, forgive me ; you shame
me. Under heaven, I believe I can restore
him to all the perfect beauty and strength
which that heaven gave him ! I believe
I have found the very seat of the injury
done, which has been hitherto missed, and
I dare now repeat emphatically to you and
him — the answer I gave my sister this
evening — I will willingly stake my whole
reputation on this case."

He so flung the power of his own conviction
into her, as some doctors do, it was
so much more than she had dared to hope,
that she gave way for a moment, and
covered her face.

When she faced him again, the long
lashes were still wet ; the dark eyes met
his with almost an appealing look that
touched him.

Forgive my weakness. I have only

been two days under this roof. I am nothing
but his paid servant as much as Harford
less, indeed, for he has served his master
for years, I only hours, and yet — "

Nay — yet — you are ^ nurse and he —
patient, helpless," said Chandos quietly.

Ay, that is it. I am only a woman,
Dr Neville," with a faint smile, "and it
made my very heart ache to see a young
strong man cut down, laid low ; wrecked for
life, dependent for so much on others — (5h
me — helpless. I thought till I came here
that I had grown hard, as well as reckless
of the world."

She paused a moment, and then added,
regaining her usual manner with an effort, —

What I say I know he himself will
ratify tomorrow, and to Sir Arthur all
his son does is right ! From this hour,
Dr Neville, that son is in your hands."

He bowed gravely over the hand he held,
and touched his lips to it.

Till tomorrow, then, Mrs Albany, au

revoir. No, do not ring for a servant ; I
know my way just down to that hall."

Marston is waiting there to drive you
home, but — ah, here comes Harford."

As Chandos Neville went out, the courier
came in.

Would you mind stepping in to Mr
Douglas, madam, for he asked me just now
as I thought he was going off so nicely —
whether I was quite sure you weren't
injured."

I was just going in for a minute, Harford.
Just show Dr Neville down to the
dog-cart, and come back here."

Chandos followed Harford, Gabrielle
passed noiselessly into the dressing-room,
with its lowered lights, and soft summer
air fanning in, laden with the mingled scent
of flowers and eau de Cologne.

Douglas was lying so still, with averted
face, that she almost hoped he slept, but
no ; the head was turned languidly to her,
with a faint, glad smile on the lips, and in

the wide open, tired eyes that looked up into
hers as she bent over him.

Now, you see that I am quite unhurt,
and you must try to sleep ; you are worn
out."

I am tired ; oh, so tired ! I think, perhaps,
too weary to sleep."

Then see, I must try what my art as
nurse can do. Does your head ache ? "

A little."

She perfectly wetted both her hands with
the cool essence of Cologne, and once more
kneeling down beside him, laid one hand
in his, and kept passing the other slowly,
lightly across the broad brow, and under
the rich bronze locks that curled so thickly
above it. Did she know then, or did he,
the magic of her touch, her presence ? Ah
me, no, it was felt, not seen, subtle, intangible,
unrecognised, but there already as
surely as the blue sea tosses, and knows not
its own passionate surging depths. The
painful wakefulness of over-weariness was

fain forced to yield to such a spell of might
as this, and the patient nurse, the tender
woman, had her reward soon ; the dark
eyes closed, the chiselled lips settled rest-fully,
the fingers that had closed over hers
relaxed, and he lay asleep, just breathing
softly in all the unconscious grace and
beauty of a most perfect statue — but a
statue endowed with the marvellous gift of
life and immortality.

Then she softly stole away into the next
room, carefully closing the door of communication.


William Harford was standing there,
waiting for her, and for a minute each
faced the other with the same look that
had so puzzled Chandos Neville. Each
perfectly understood the other, but neither
chose to put thought or suspicion into
precise words, though the man spoke
first.

Mrs Albany, if that gear, wherever the
fault in it was, had given way entirely, both

you and the master would have been dashed
to pieces against the roof."

** I know that, Harford."

It hardly seemed the same voice and face
that had spoken, and bent so soothingly, so
tenderly, with such sweet womanliness, to
the sleeper in the next room ; so stern and
set voice and face now, as the few words
fell that to him said such a volume.

I know it, Harford."

I have telegraphed already to the man
in town who made this," added the courier,
to come at once and put entirely new gear
to the lift, and the same extraordinary accident
will not occur again. You know, I
suppose, Mrs Albany " — the man asked this
abruptly — " who is the next heir or successor
to the master ? "

*'I never heard yet," said Gabrielle
slowly.

You can guess ! "

"Yes."

*' Will you say, Mrs Albany ? "

No."

Shall I tell you ? "

If you like."

Lady Glen-Luna's daughter, Jessica."

She made no answer to that, only stood
looking at him. He spoke again in another
tone.

Mrs Albany, you won't leave Mr
Douglas, will you ? '

Leave ! certainly not ; why should I,
unless he himself dismisses me ? "

*' He'll never do that, madam ; but," the
man moved uneasily now, and dropped
his keen eyes, " pardon me ; I'm a man
over forty, and you are married, or I
shouldn't venture — "

Go on, good, faithful Harford."

Well, ma'am, you see — those detestable
village gossips will talk of you being here,
you know, and pull you to pieces — most
ladies in your place would take fright and

go."

I shall not, Harford, if they said the

very worst that scandal can invent," said
Albany's wife calmly, — '' not because I hold
my name lightly, or am hard, or over reckless,
but because, even if no interest kept
me here, I despise village doings too utterly
to care what they say ; they are nothing tome.
And there is every interest to keep
me here ; we are one. Are you satisfied ? "
Quite, thank you, Mrs Albany."
No more was said ; they parted in silence
those two who were in Douglas Glen-luna's
service — and so the night of that
terrible day ended.

VOL. I.

BEHOLD, A LITTLE CLOUD ARISETH NOW,
LIKE UNTO A MAN's HAND.

T is very rarely in this life that
our most earnest hopes are fulfilled,
our dearest wishes realised.
I suppose because our finite humanity, only
** seeing through a glass darkly," too often
yearns for that which our all-seeing Creator
knows is not for our highest good. Quern
Deus mat castigat. But sometimes, though
it so falls to very few, the very thing which
though wished for, seemed most absolutely
beyond reach, rises up before us — not a
chimaera or wild dream — but a fact, a reality,
actually in our grasp. So it was now with

Chandos Neville, and it calls for no very
unusually dramatic or sympathetic nature
to understand, or sympathise with, the even
passionate joy of a man whose whole high
earnest soul and large-hearted nature were
in his noble profession, who suddenly finds
his greatest, yet most hopeless, wish gained.

The lights still shone from the diningroom
windows when he reached home, and
his sister was sitting up for him.

Rose ! You naughty Sister Rose." *

I was too anxious to sleep, dear, but
your face tells me good news — some more
than usual news," she added, as the bright
gas-light fell full on his face.

He put both arms round his sister, and
dropped his head on her shoulder. The
strong man was trembling like a child.

** Oh, Rose, I am so happy ! my wish is
granted."

"Thank God!"

Beyond the fervent reverence of those
two words no other passed her lips till, after

a few minutes stillness, he lifted himself,
with one deep-drawn breath, and drew
back.

You always know how I feel, Rose, and
feel with me."

Chandos drew her to her arm-chair again,
and, seating himself on one of its arms,
said, —

You remember what we were talking
of this evening, Sister Eose ? "

'* Yes, my dear."

Rose, Douglas Glen-Luna is my patient
henceforth ; Mrs Albany has placed him
absolutely in my hands. Ah ! I tell you
that woman is a heroine, in the fullest,
grandest sense of the word."

Tell me all about it, Chandos."

She listened with the silence of deepest
interest to his account of his new patient
and his attendant, and the accident which
had been so nearly a terribly fatal one to
both.

Oddly enough her words, as he concluded,

were exactly those Gabrielle had said of her
" I should like to know her."

The ormolu clock struck one as she spoke,
and she rose up.

See, dear ; it is time we both retired.
How early shall you drive over to the
Hall?"

About nine o'clock," Dr Neville answered,
bolting up shutter and door. " I
wonder how the accident happened ; it
was so very extraordinary."

Did not Mrs Albany or the courier seem
to know ?" asked Miss Neville, as the two
went upstairs together.

I don't think so," said Chandos slowly,
but I am puzzled. I have a queer fancy.
I saw such an odd look pass between those
two. I think they have some suspicion
resting somewhere."

Perhaps one of the servants has been
meddling with the lift."

It may be ; if any one has, they must
have felt pleasant when it gave way with

those two lives upon it," said the doctor
dryly. " Good night, Eose."

He kissed his sister, and turned into his
room ; and his dreams were a strange jumble
of broken lifts, and some one stopping him ina
lane to fetch him to save some one from
being murdered, and when he went he found
himself amidst a thick darkness, and a crowd
surging wildly to and fro, crying out wherein
Heaven's name, were Douglas Glen-Luna
and Gabrielle. And then there came a
heavy knocking somewhere, which woke the
dreamer with a start — and, lo ! the housemaid
was tapping at the door, and telling
him it was half-past seven, and his hot-water
was outside.

An hour and a-half later, the physician's
pretty brougham — for he kept one besides
his trap — drew up at the west wing door
of Luna Hall, and he was at once admitted.

Thanks ! I know the way," he said, as
the servant was about to precede him ; and
up the wide staircase he went, two at a

time, through the salon, and tapped at the
dressing-room door.

Come in ! " said Gabrielle's soft voice,
and as he entered she met him with a glad
smile and warm hand clasp of welcome.

Douglas was lying back on the couch,
from which, according to orders, he yet had
not been stirred ; his head turned a little
aside, his eyes closed — too prostrate, it
seemed, for even a movement of restlessness.
But it was evident every sense was
keenly alive, for the moment Neville entered
the head turned, and it was good to
see the bright light of pleasure that banished
the languor from the beautiful grey eyes, as
the hand was stretched out. Surely there
is something much to sweeten the anxious
care and often terrible responsibility of the
medical profession, especially to such a man
as Chandos Neville ; and he is no fancy or
very unusual a picture either.

You look much too colourless and languid,"
he said, smiling : and his smile, like

his whole manner, was gentle, cheering,
bright yet mellowed — a man whose mere
presence in a sick-room seemed to bring
light and relief to both nurse and patient.
How have yon slept ? "

Well enough, thank you ! I am better."

What does nurse say ? "

The dark eyes turned on her with such
a look, and then a heavy sigh.

Ah ! sweet nurse ! What a trouble and
anxiety I am to you all ! "

Her soft fingers were laid on his lips, with
the sweet, chiding tenderness with which we
touch a child.

'* Hush, or I shall scold you ! May we
move him at all, Dr Neville ? Ah ! pardon ;
you cannot tell yet. I will send Harford to
you, and you will find me in the next room'*

Mrs Albany rang the bell, and passed out
as Harford was entering from the corridor.

Madam, Mr Boyd himself has just come
to see to the lift. Will you see him yourself?"


"Yes, Harford, while you attend to Mr
Douglas. Is Mr Boyd in the hall ? "

Yes, madam ; with one of his men."

Best hen ! We shall take care no
such accident happens again ! " she said
in French, and went downstairs.

** Good morning, madam ! I hope I am
not too early," began Mr Boyd, wondering
who this handsome lady was ; '' but the
telegram was so urgent, that I thought I
had better take the last train down overnight
and stop in Doring."

Quite right. I am obliged to you for
your prompt answer to my summons. A
most unaccountable and nearly fatal accident
happened to the lift last evening while
Mr Glen-Luna and myself were ascending
by it ; for as we came half way up to
the gallery something in the gear below
suddenly gave way, and the lift ran
up. When did you last examine this
machine ? "

Only one month ago, madam ; my own

self, because naturally Sir Arthur is so
particular over it."

Well, and was it then sound ? "

As sound as a bell, madam ! I will
swear that, if it was my last word. Why,
ma'am, the whole thing was put up new
only a year ago, and as perfect as skill and
money could make it. Sir Arthur spared
no expense, and we no skill. Why, all the
chains and gear was made double strong !
If I didn't see the thing there, I'd never
have believed it could have happened like
this. I can't make it out."

Nor I ! " said Mrs Albany quietly.
*' Look at the machinery, and tell me what
the mischief is, if you can."

She stood by while the two men bent down,
watching them, as motionless as a statue, save
for the quick, short heave of her breast beneath
the firm, delicate hands folded over it.

So watching, she saw the two men suddenly
look at each other, each with a quick,
low " Whew— w— "

"Well?" said Gabrielle Albany, as Mr
Boyd was erect again.

It's just this, madam. The machinery
has been damaged in some unaccountable
way — perhaps roughly used. It is not
safe now ; it don't need to be a mechanic
to see this."

"It is most extraordinary ! " she said ;
*' but of course Sir Arthur will sift it to the
bottom when he returns. Meanwhile, Mr
Glen-Luna wishes you to thoroughly examine
the whole machine, lest there maybe
any other damage done. If you consider
it in the least necessary, or even advisable,
the whole thing must come down and be
refitted. I am Mr Glen-Luna's secretary,
and fully empowered to give you orders."

Mr Boyd bowed very low, and Gabrielle
returned to the salon, leaving them to their
work of inspection.

Dr Neville was waiting for her.

I am still of the same opinion, Mrs
Albany. There is no further permanent

injury done, and I think, with a few days
of care and quiet, we shall get rid of the
prostration consequent on the shock and
agony he suffered. Keep away everything
and every one that can fret him. I want
both body and that tiresome, restless brain
of his kept perfectly quiet, for to-day at any
rate ; and if" — Chandos smiled — '' you can
by any arts witch him into sleep presently,
pray do."

No one shall come near him but myself
and Harford, Dr Neville," said Gabrielle
firmly ; " and you will call in again
to-day ? "

Certainly — this evening."

*' And of course I am not to tell him
what passed between us last night, until
he has recovered his strength ? "

I must leave that a good deal to your,
I know, unerring judgment, Mrs Albany ;
for if you find him fretting about that very
thing, as is very likely, tell him what you
think best."

"You shall be obeyed like a veritable
autocrat," she said, smiling a little. " I
shall not leave him except for a few
minutes even when the family come home.
Ah ! what is this ? "

A footman with a telegram.

For you, if you please, madam," he said,
and withdrew.

One moment, Dr Neville. Ah, thank
Heaven, they are not coming back till
Monday. Head."

It was from Lady Glen-Luna, to say that
the Eosslyns would not hear of their return
till Monday (this being Saturday).

The best thing that could possibly have
happened," said Chandos. " We shall have
our charge driving out again by then, I hope.
Good-bye till evening, Mrs Albany."

He shook hands and vanished just as
Harford entered. Gabrielle gave him the
telegram.

I am more glad than I can say, Mrs
Albany ; though, of course, you would not

have allowed them to see the master. And
about the lift, madam ? "

Harford, Boyd's positive opinion confirms
our worst suspicions."

The man looked up, and their eyes met.

*' You mean," he said, under his breath,
and put one hand on her arm, " that it is
true beyond doubt that the machinery has
been tampered with f "

'eyes."

They stood facing each other in dead
silence, which neither broke for some
seconds. Then the courier dropped his
hand, and said slowly, —

We understand each other perfectly
then, Mrs Albany ? "

Yes — perfectly, Harford."

The man went through the ante-room ; the
woman passed as noiselessly into the dressing-room,
and paused beside the couch on which
that stricken, prostrate form of beauty lay.

Hearts feel that love thee ! — hearts feel
that love thee 1 Ah, me, for the little cloud
that ariseth like unto a man's hand !

GIVING A DIAMOND.

Belle paused beside that

couch; bent over the helpless

form, and said quietly, —

They are not coming back till Monday."

A quick-drawn breath, an instant look of

intense relief in the dark, tired eyes that

met hers.

I am so glad ! But you would not have
let them come up ? "

*' No ! You are to be kept very quiet today,
and see no one."

Except my dear nurse ! They mean it
all kindly," Douglas added, as if in explanation
; " but they make such a fuss. You

know what I mean. I am absurd, oversensitive,
morbid ; but, still — "

Still, still, he was a man ; and the very
pride of his manhood, that glories in its rich
strength, shrank in horrible dread from
notice and effusive pity in his sufferings,
even when it was sincere. His stepmother
and sister at all times jarred on every chord
of the finely-attuned instrument, and now
every sensitive nerve had been quivering
at the mere thought of their coming near
him ; while this woman, who had come into
his crushed, hopeless life like a strain of
most wondrous music, soothed by her mere
presence.

"■ Still ! " Gabrielle repeated, laying her
cool hand on his brow. " I perfectly understand
you ; but you must give this brain
rest, and not think."

"Not think! "he said. "Not think I of
what I was, and what I am — of the living
death that all my future will be. My God !
but for your precious life I wish the lift

had crashed to the bottom, and dashed me
to pieces."

Hush ! Oh, hush ! " It so wrung her
heart, that only the strongest mastery of a
strong will forced back the tide of emotion
that for one second had almost broken ,
as she knelt down at his side,
clasping his hand with hands that trembled.
*' I cannot bear that from you, when — "

Forgive me, dear Mrs Albany ! Forgive
me such a selfish outburst of misery !
I am weak, unmanned to-day, I think. " I
forgot myself quite. I am beaten down
utterly in spirits ! "

'' Hush ! Listen to me ! " said Gabrielle,
with one imperative hand on his lips for a
minute. "I see that it is best to give you
something happier to think of, since I cannot
arrest thought, even by sleep."

Douglas turned his head sharply, so as to
bring his searching gaze full on her face ;
and his hand closed almost convulsively on
hers, as she still knelt.

VOL. I. %.

You will have to forgive me beforehand,"
she said, smiling now, though her
lips quivered, "for taking a liberty with
your name, and pledging you to ratify
something I have done."
• " It can only be right if you did it, whatever
it is."

My pardon is signed, sealed, and delivered
then, Mr Douglas. Well," she laid
one hand now on his shoulder, fearful lest
he should start half up or make some sudden
movement at her words ; "I spoke to Dr
Neville last night, and he thinks there is
some hope for you!"

The blood rushed to Douglas's bronzed
cheeks, and she felt him quiver under her
hand ; but the next minute he was deathly
pale again, and shook his head.

No, no 1 They have all said that at
first, Mrs Albany."

There is ! " she said steadily. " I
forced him to throw aside the professional
etiquette that held him silent, and answer

plainly my question whether he thought,
from his recent examination, that he could
do you any good. I will give you his
answer, in his own more than earnest words.
'Under Heaven, I believe I can restore
him to all the perfect strength which that
Heaven gave him. I believe I have found
the very seat of the injury done, which has
hitherto been missed; and I dare now repeat
emphatically what I said to my sister
that I will willingly stake my whole reputation
on this case ! ' "
-OGod!"

Such a dazzling blaze of glorious sunlight
in the darkness, such a rush of mighty
waters over the arid land, that manhood's
proudest barriers gave way, and the man
suddenly buried his face in the cushions
with such a deep, passionate burst of emotion,
as laid all check or control powerless
for many seconds; and Gabrielle neither
spoke nor moved till the soft voice came
brokenly.

*' Forgive my weakness. I try you so
cruelly. I, who owe you life, and now —
hope!"

Hush, hush ! You owe me nothing,"
she said, and quietly lifted his head to turn
the cushions. " There now, you must keep
very quiet," and, patting the curling locks,
with a smile, " be my own good boy, or the
poor nurse will fear she has done wrong to
tell you."

Ah! no, no, dear, sweetest nurse ! And
now you have not told me what it is I have
to ratify r'

Exhausted he might be, physically ; but
she saw that she had done wisely to put
even slight hope for despair, sweet for
bitter, light for darkness.

Only this, Mr Douglas. I told Dr
Neville that from that minute you were
entirely in his hands."

'^ Thank you."

He drew her hand to his lips, and kissed
it with deep chivalrous reverence ; then

closed his eyes, saying quietly that he was
very tired, and would try to sleep, because
she wished it.

When Chandos Neville called in the
evening he found his new patient markedly
better "sand stronger, though still languid,
and he asked Mrs Albany how soon the lift
would be in order. She told him that an
entirely new one from Mr Boyd's factory
was to be sent on Monday, and fixed with
some extra strong machinery.

"Which I told her was quite unnecessary,"
said Douglas, smiling; 'for Boyd
says that this one is sound, he believes,
but she and Harford have put their heads
together, and don't care one bit what I

say.

I may be over fanciful," said Gabrielle,
^^ but it is a fault on the right sides I
would never again see you in tUs lift without
fear and dread of some other undiscovered
damage."

Both men looked at her, both vaguely

struck by something in her voice of which
perhaps she was scarcely conscious ; but she
smiled brightly the next moment, and
turned the subject.

You have not yet ratified my words,
Mr Douglas, so I'll leave you to do so."

And, putting down the book she had
been reading to him when Neville entered,
she went out of the room.

A new lift would, she felt sure, make all
safe in that quarter. She had not much
fear of a second " accident " with the
machine. It would look too suspicious, and
be fraught with too much danger to the
hand that wrought the evil.

It is a terrible thing to have a venomous
serpent at the very hearth.

SUNDAY MORNING.

EAR me ! how all Doring talked
and gossiped over the new doctor
and new secretary, and the
accident at the Hall, even as it dressed
and walked to church or meeting-house
that Sunday. Of course it knew for a
positive fact, my dear, everything that had
(not) happened, and could state on the
authority of everybody (not) concerned
every word that could not possibly have
been uttered. The poor little wee bits of
truth that looked out might have cried out
like the lamp-posts in our streets, " Where

are

you

Here

am

I ! " They knew

that "that Mrs Albany" had sent oiF, posthaste,
for the swell London doctor, who
had, after all, only come for a few months,
while Mr Parker was away, and in consequence
Mrs Doctor Orde went to church ina
state of bitter piety that made her feel
with intense morality that she was a
straightforward, plain (as she was, heaven
knows) married woman, and Mrs Leicester
Albany \ nobody knew what !

Gossip wondered that Sunday morning
whether either she or " those Nevilless "
would show in church at all. Of course
they would at St Agnes the Martyr. The
Hall was High Church from time immemorial,
and of course they would do in
Turkey as the Turkeys did ; though no
doubt the London doctor was an infidel,
soaked with modern scientific unbelief,
and " that foreigner " — a Papist — if, indeed,
she was anything at all.

So those of the coterie who, like Mrs
Doctor Orde, were evangelical, sailed into

their pews at St Luke's in all the agonies
of ignorance for two hours, even as to what
sort of bonnet or hat the new comer would
wear, and the worst suspicions that Mrs
Winstanley and some others would know
that important point before they could do
so, which was the fact, for Mrs W., passing
down the aisle, saw Mrs Albany still kneeling
in nearly the last rows of chairs, and,
dear me ! she wore the very same dark
silk dress and dashing plumed hat in which
she had driven through the town on Friday.
And outside, at the churchyard gate (for
St Agnes's was the beautiful old parish
church) actually stood a dainty victoria in
charge of Mr Glen-Luna's own man, Marston.
Upon my word ! Was madam too
grand to walk back across the park ? And
there was Dr Neville, too — waiting for her,
of course — though he had ridden up to the
Hall early that day "; the gardener's boy had
seen him. Mrs Winstanley's eye is upon
them while she affects to be waiting about

for Mrs Orde to pass. Ah ! the doctor's
face lights up — he sees her — no, it is only
his sister who joins him ; but, almost ashe
stops, the tall, graceful figure followed
came up, as they evidently waited for
her, and the doctor, lifting his hat, with
a sort of sans ceremonie introduction, —

My sister Eose is so anxious to know
you, Mrs Albany, that we have waited to
catch you."

I am very much honoured, Miss Neville,"
the rich, low voice answers ; " and I assure
you the anxiety was reciprocal, for we saw
you as ^e drove by on Friday."

(" We, indeed," mutters Mrs W., with a
toss, " upon my word ; quite an adventuress")


Did you ? — I saw you. Will you walk
just back with us, and come in to luncheon ? "

*' Thank you. Miss Neville ; you are very
kind, and I will walk back to your gate
with pleasure ; but I cannot, I think, leave
Mr Glen-Luna so much longer alone. He

insisted on my coming to church, as he was
so much better. Marston ? "

Yes, madam."

The groom touched his hat, and waited
her orders, as if she had been his master,
or a duchess at least.

Will you just drive on to Dr Neville's
gate, and wait for me there ? "

Marston saluted again, and drove off his
pretty little horses, while his 'pro tern, mistress
took the doctor's offered arm, and
passed on between him and Sister Eose.

I suspect," she said, smiling, " that my
brother, although a good Tory, meditates
a considerable revolution in the medical
treatment of your charge, Mrs Albany."

I think it is needed. Miss Neville, and
I am very certain that I mean to make an
entire revolution in his social treatment,
subject, of course" — with an arch glance
at Chandos — "to physician's autocracy. I
am too true blue to defy legal authority."

I think we shall find ourselves quite atone,

Mrs Albany ; and I have no fear that
you will allow the least interference with
your authority in Mr Glen-Luna's menage ^^
said the doctor, with a comical look in the
fine lines of the resolute mouth and brow.
Indeed, where was there a weak line at that
beautiful face, in which character was so
marked %

Certainly not. I could not take
such a responsibility without adequate
authority ! "

*' Quite right, Mrs Nurse, and I am very
certain that Mr Glen-Luna will entirely
support you. Of Sir Arthur I know nothing.
Do they know anything of this
accident, if I may ask ? "

'' I wrote last night to Sir Arthur just to
say there had been a slight accident, that I
had called you in, and all was well with
his son, who, I added, had placed himself
at once entirely under your medical
care."

Thank you, Mrs Albany. I am glad

you have done so, and, God knows, I hope I
shall justify the confidence you and Mr
Glen-Luna have reposed in me."

I am sure of one thing, Dr Neville, that
if you fail, it will not be from any fault of
yours."

He bowed gravely, and Miss Neville
asked if they had discovered the cause of
the accident.

Some flaw in the chain, I believe,"
Gabrielle answered ; " but a new lift is to
be put up on Monday. I felt quite safe,
you see, in acting without the least regard
to expense, for Sir Arthur would sooner lose
half his fortune than have any risk to his
son."

I am not surprised," said Neville, ** that
his father should be so fond of him. He is
his heir, his only son, and a man gifted with
singular power of attaching those about
him. The servants seem to simply adore
him."

So talking, the three reached the gate of

Cedar Lodge, and Mrs Winstanley, standing
behind her own, on the opposite side of the
wide roadway, heard Miss Neville say as
they were parting, —

You will come and see us, then, Mrs
Albany, whenever you can, or like ? "

*' I shall be so happy. Miss Neville. I
think, when I am driving out, the horses
will soon learn their way here."

Upon my word ! " said Mrs Winstanley,
I — I — the horses indeed ! as if the whole
thing belonged to her. She steps into that
victoria as if she had never been used to
anything but a carriage all her life ! Such
airs ! "

Which, in fact, Leicester Albany's wife
had been more or less. She was *' to the
manner born," in truth ; but it did not
seem that unfortunate Mrs Albany could
please Mrs "Winstanley in any way, whether
she said " we " or ** I " only. Alas ! for
the Doring lady's censure ! I'm afraid
that it was like the account of the Papal

excommunication in the *' Ingoldsby Legends":
—

"Never was heard such a terrible curse ;

But what gave rise

To no little surprise,

Nobody seemed one penny the worse !"

RETURN HOME.

OUGLAS GLEN-LUNA was back
again on his usual couch, in his
favourite place by the window,
on Monday morning. Not, though, .until
Dr Neville had been, and given permission
for the resumption of his accustomed ways.
Wicked Douglas had tried in vain to coax
his " fair autocrat " to suffer any remove
without orders from headquarters.

*' And as to Harford," said Douglas, " I
don't believe he would have obeyed any
order of mine on the subject if Mrs Albany
had even looked a * No ! "*

Gabrielle smiled, and Neville asked when
the family returned.

About midday, I suppose, Dr Neville ;
as we have not heard."

"And the lift will be ready to use tomorrow."


** So Boyd promised, and you see he has
the men hard at work."

"I see. Well, Mr Glen-Luna, I shall
expect to meet you and Mrs Albany outwith
those blood horses again ; and in another
twelve months, perhaps, we shall reverse
the case, and have you driving her on
the box-seat of your four-in-hand."

The blood flushed to Douglas's brow ; but
it died as suddenly, with a look of intense
pain and a restless movement.

Ah, don't ! Don't jest ! "

Jest ! How could I on such a matter !
I was never farther from jesting in my life,
Mr Glen-Luna ; and I have every hope that,
with Mrs Albany's continued assistance, I
shall make good my words, under the treat-vol.
I. L

ment we shall follow ; of which I will speak
more in a few days."

Douglas turned aside, and his breast
heaved.

A year ! Only a year, and then — could
it be possible ! Dared he look at such a
hope !

Well, good-bye, Mr Glen-Luna," came
the physician's bright, cheering voice. ** I
wish I left all my patients in as good hands
as I do you ! "

I must not forget your good opinion,
then."

He laughed, shook hands with both, and
was gone.

But it was not till afternoon that Sir
Arthur and his wife and daughter came
home ; and shortly afterwards a footman
came to inquire if Mr Douglas could see
them.

Yes, James."

Gabrielle Albany was leaning lightly on
the head of the couch as greetings passed

and anxious questions were asked. It was
neither the frank, fine old baronet or his
daughter whom her covert searching gaze
watched ; but that little lady, who kissed
her "dear boy" so affectionately, and was
so full of gratitude for his escape, to Providence
and dear Mrs Albany, who had done
everything that was right ; and what caused
the accident, and —

Indeed, Lady Glen-Luna, it little matters,
since," said Gabrielle, dismissing the
subject of the accident, "there is a new
lift, and very good care must be taken that
no second accident occurs."

And meanwhile, Jessie," said Douglas
gravely, "you will have the fullest opportunity
of flirting with Dr Chandos Neville."

Ha ! ha ! You're as wicked as ever,
my boy," laughed Sir Arthur; and Jessie
retorted, —

I shall have better than that, sir, I can
tell you, Mr Impudence ; for mamma says
we're going to town in a few days for the

rest of the season, and there'll be plenty of
people to flirt with then."

*' A highly-to-be-desired end, my dear, I
admit, and one in which, I think, few young
ladies require lessons. Do they, Adeline ? "

Or men either, you bad boy ? But,
Arthur, we mustn't tire him. So you fancy,
dear boy, by the way, to have Dr Neville
to attend you ? "

Mrs Albany bent over the sofa head, and
laid her finger playfully but imperatively
on Douglas's lips.

Hush ! or the doctor will scold me for
letting you tire yourself. Please, Lady
Glen-Luna, don't make him talk. Indeed,
I am afraid I must turn you all out now."

Oh, you autocrat ! " laughed Adeline,
I suspect you will lead my poor Douglas
a sad life of it; but of course it is all
right. I suppose Dr Neville thinks that it
will take some time of medical care to really
sound the mischief of — "

"The accident," said Gabrielle quietly.

Exactly so ; a work of time. It might
have been beyond all time."

** Don't talk of it," said Sir Arthur,
huskily. " Good-bye, for the present, my
own boy."

Douglas clasped his father s hand closely,
endured Adeline's kiss and Jessie's caress ;
and, when the door closed behind them,
said very quietly, —

Come here, Mrs Albany."

She moved round to his side, never
flinching for one moment under his intense
searching gaze, as he said, —

Why did you put your hand on my
lips, just now, and answer, or rather take
up, Adeline's questioning remarks as you
did, fair Jesuit ? "

My reason was strictly true, Mr Douglas
! and you, like myself, believe in casuistry,
I know. I suffered a mistaken impression
; populus vult decipi decepiaticr"
with a slight shrug of her shoulders and a
half smile on her lips.

** Best fa'' said he, his great grey eyes
still watching her. " I saw at once that
you did not wish the truth about Neville
to be known, and so obeyed your lead ;
for if speech is silver, silence is golden ;
but I do not see your reason — your
motive."

"Will you trust me that it is a good
one ? '' she said steadily. " More than
that, will you promise me to still preserve
you golden silence, and let them all think
that Dr Neville's attendance is only in consequence
of this accident, and let me write
to him to do the same ? I am asking a
great deal, I know ; but one strong reason
I can give you and him is a very self-evident
one. It would fret you frightfully
and retard your recovery to be talked
over, questioned, watched — however kindly
meant — gossiped over."

Saints above ! It would madden me ! "
he said passionately ; "do what you like,
you are always right ! "

Her hand trembled as it touched his
gratefully for a second, and the touch suddenly
thrilled every fibre of that man's
whole being, as she sat down to his escritoire
and began to write her letter.

Ah me ; for the cruel hand and ruthless
schemer that cared not if it made wreck of
two human hearts to gain its end ! Would
it win in the losing — or — lose in the
winning ?

That letter was sent to Cedar Lodge hy
Marston that evening. Chandos read it,
and handed it to his sister, saying
quietly,—

*' Head it, and burn it, Rose ; she wishes
you to see it."

She could be trusted, he knew well.

She is perfectly right," said Sister Eose,
as she burned the letter in a taper, *' and
her reason shows her to be a true metaphysician.
She is a clever woman. Don't
you think so, Chandos ? "

** Yes, Eose ; a very clever woman."

The answer was meditative, even abstracted.
Sister Eose added, —

There is some thought in the back of
your mind, Chandos.**

He looked up with a half laugh.

I don't know that there was, dear ;
certainly nothing definite enough to put into
words without sounding too strong for the
vague impression I would express. The
story of that singular woman's life is no
ordinary one, I am sure, and will be no
ordinary one."

I think," said Eose Neville strongly,
that it is a cruel thing to go away and
leave her alone to have her very name
talked away in this scandalising town. She
will leave, and what will you do for your
patient ? "

*' My dear," said Neville serenely, *' I
agree with you in your first count, but for
the other I have no fear at all of Mrs
Albany leaving young Glen-Luna's service
for anything but his own dismissal. She is

a thorough woman of the world — a thorough
cosmopolitan — and I am very much mistaken
if she has not known troubles to
which anything this stupid little place could
do or say would be play work. When one
has beaten through a frightful tempest, the
storm in a duck pond is worthy only of
haughty indifference."

If," said gentle Eose, " a woman can
ever look with indifference on a breath on
her name, unless she is hardened." *

No," said Chandos, ** seared a little,
perhaps, certainly not hardened ; and, after
all, Eose, a thoroughly brave, loyal-hearted
woman stands at such an immovable height
in her own purity."

Yes," answered Sister Eose, " but what
if she falls to her own conscience, what, if
while her actions are unblemished, her heart
her poor human heart — swerves from its
loyalty."

Well," said the doctor, getting up and
walking slowly to and fro, " it might be a nice

question of ethics, how far it would touch
a woman's conscience, even to herself, if she
were placed in a position of great temptation,
and her heart swerved, not from or
with her own will — but against all that
will's struggles — despite all her efforts to
keep it in its strict line of duty. I think
that as long as she fights the battle, as long
as she suffers in the heart's straying, she has
not, cannot, fall to her own conscience — or
her purity of soul be sullied. Of course,
I am supposing a position in which the
temptation must be endured — not fled
from."

The maintenance of her high standard,"
said Rose, "would, I fear, have but a
shaky foundation if, in her heart and her
conscience, her purity came on opposite
sides of the shield ; how long would the
battle be a battle, the suffering remain
suffering, in a strong impassioned nature ?
You do not mean that if a wife with every
excuse loves another man — "

I mean this, Rose," said the doctor, stopping
before her chair, " that if she does not
yield to it, and if the love is in itself pure,
she is untouched — her pure loyalty is intact.
A thought or feeling may be wrong, sinful,
but we do not become sinners to it till we
meet it, take it in, make it our own."

You are quite right, Chandos," said
Eose, after a pause, "yes, you are quite
right. But God help the woman or man who
has such a battle to fight ; it might not. be
won. It is a cruel, cruel thing, Chandos."

She came back with that to where she
had started, and shook her head sadly to
herself.

They had each, all through, had two
living beings before them, and each knew
it, though neither had put it into words.
It is better not sometimes.

DR NEVILLE LAYS DOWN THE LAW.

UT Chandos Neville did not meet
the tenants of the west wing out
driving with the blood horses.
Wishing to have a long talk, he waited till
the afternoon of the next day, when, having
seen all his other patients, he had the time
all his own, and started off to the Hall on
foot. At the Doring gates of the park,
however, the lodge-keeper stopped him with
a bright " Good day, sir. Was you going
up to the Hall to see Mr Douglas ? "

Yes, Mrs Crane. Is he out driving ? "
** No, sir ; but he ain't in the house this
fine day, for Mr Harford he's just ridden

through, and he told me that the master
and Mrs Albany are just down by the river,
along near the boathouse."

** Thanks ! Which is the shortest way to
that part, then ? "

The woman pointed to a lovely bit of
wooding.

Just through that wood, sir ; and, as
soon as you catches sight of the river, turn
your back to the Hall and lawns, and keep
straight down to the water; then skirt* it
till you see the master, sir."

Dr Neville thanked her again, and followed
her directions, which soon brought
him out by the river ; and he had not gone
far when he caught the gleam of something
crimson between the rich green of the foliage,
and the musical murmur of voices came
to his ear. Neville made a slight detour,
and paused on a rising ground crowned with
stately trees, from which he could see the
group in the lovely dell below, where the
river rippled almost at their feet.

Douglas Glen-Luna was leaning back in
his wheeled chair, his attitude the very perfection
of easy grace, the sunlight falling
full on his handsome face as it turned intent
and rapt to his beautiful attendant, who,
seated at his feet on the chair, was reading
aloud, and it was her crimson scarf which
he had seen.

As Chandos paused, the reader seemed to
have come to the end of what she was reading,
and she looked up in Douglas's face
with a question that came distinctly on the
clear summer air.

What would you like next ? "

Nothing, Mrs Albany. I feel a perfectly
selfish wretch already ; but — you
read so exquisitely."

She laughed a little, amused, it seemed,
at the first words.

'' You selfish ! I don't think any one can
lay that to your charge."

Then I fear I must be a hypocrite to
have given you such an opinion of me.

Don't you think most of my sex are selfish
more so than women ? Candour, now
please, fair Jesuit, if you can."

I think most men are more selfish than
women ; but," said Gabrielle, smiling, and
looking straight in his face, *'if you will
have absolute candour, I do not think you
know what the word selfishness means ! "

Basta ! " said he, laughing and colouring.
"You cannot tell. You have only
known me a week." *

A feather will show which way the wind
blows, Mr Douglas," Gabrielle answered.
"What shall I read?"

Nothing yet, chere madame. I cannot
tire you. Ah ! who is that ? "

Both turned as the doctor's step advanced ;
and the next moment Gabrielle rose quickly,
and Douglas exclaimed joyously, —

Why, it is our aesculapius himself !
Boyer toujours le bien venn Neville ! Did
you come this way by chance ? "

"No, I came after you," answered the

physician in his bright way ; " the lodge-keeper
directed me, and I thought there
could hardly be a better opportunity for a
quiet talk. I have some theories which I
want to put into practice co-existent with
the more purely medical treatment. It is
of the first I wish to speak. I don't mean,"
said the doctor, leaning comfortably back
against a tree, and folding his arms, " that
I have any new or startling theory to offer,
but only old theories — old facts, indeed —
which I perhaps push to an extreme, though
I do not think either of .you will disagree
with me."

Go on, please, Neville."

"Well," said the physician, "I don't
think, with all our advancement, that we
have yet half fathomed the depth and
closeness of the connection between mind
and body, the intimate and absolute influence
which the mental and physical have
over each other, both in health and out of
health, especially in the latter case, and the

greater the power of both, the deeper, the
more intense, the influence of each over
the other. I think that in medical science
there is scarcely any limit to be placed to
the influence and reaction of psychology
over physiology."

"I thoroughly endorse every word you
have spoken!" said Glen-Luna. *'I suppose
you have always followed that principle
of action in your own career ? "

Ay, and the finer strung the nature J
have to deal with the more necessary the
treatment," said the doctor, so significantly
that Douglas laughed.

*' Meaning me, of course. Do you think
I shall prove rebellious."

No ; but I am afraid that circumstances
would do so if I had not an ally ever at
your side in Mrs Albany. We mean to
make a complete revolution in your life."

I think that is done already," said
Douglas softly ; " but I beg your pardon ;

go on."

VOL. I.

It is only just begun a week ago,"
returned the physician decidedly ; " and
pardon me if it is necessary for me to
ask a few questions, which I fear must
pain you."

A quick-drawn breath, a quick, transient
flush, and a restless movement of one hand
as he answered, —

Say what you like, Neville."

"Thank you. From the time of the
accident, then, you have been left alone, to
suffer and brood, and go half-mad with
restlessness and agony of mind and body ;
where you should have had constant and
affectionate companionship you have been
cruelly neglected. The mere physical confinement
was enough to weaken and injure
the body and chances of recovery (which
must depend so much on the strength), without
the added weight of such mental wear
and tear. A wild, free spirit, a mind used
to revelling in the broad expanse of the
wide world's garden, a splendid physique',

all suddenly crushed down into the narrow
limits of a suite of rooms, feeling your life
wrecked and God-forgotten, shrinking more
and more morbidly from every one. Mrs
Albany saw — read — all this in a few hours,
and first, in fact, broke through the cordon
when she drove you out last Friday. You
are not probably yourself aware how immeasurably
lowered is your whole physique
from the constant fret of mind acting on it,
and it will take months, perhaps, of a totally
opposite treatment to bring back something
like its native strength, — a treatment which
mainly aims at restoring the physical tone
through restoring the mental tone. Without
that — of which Mrs Albany is so integral
a part — I should not have dared to
offer the hope I have. You are like a very
fine instrument thoroughly out of tune. It
cannot be strung up all at once. My plan
is social as well as medical."

He paused. Mrs Albany did not move.
Douglas Glen-Luna, without dropping the

hand he had put over his eyes, said in a
very low voice, —

I know too well how bitterly right you
are. What is your plan ? "

"Simply, Glen-luna, to continue and
expand what your young friend here has
begun. We must * rub ' out, and date from
Mons. You have been kept lying down and
in one or two positions too much. You shall
move positions and recline as much as you
are able to bear it. You must go out — be
out constantly — and you must no longer
shun people, the world, and shrink from it.
And as you cannot yet go to society, we
must bring society to you. We must get
them to bring down guests this autumn."

"No! no! not that, Neville!" Douglas
broke out passionately. " I cannot mix with
others, meet others I have known, so, so
differently."

Soft fingers clasped his — a soft voice, full
of the very pathos of intense sympathy,
said quietly, —

It will only be so hard at first, and
then you will feel all in your own element
again."

He made no answer, or even movement,
for some moments ; then lifted himself a
little, and, closing one hand round hers,
held the other out to Chandos.

Forgive me, Neville. I will never gainsay
one wish of yours or hers ; it only proves
how right you are, and what a coward I have
become." •

No, no, not a coward," Chandos interrupted,
" you must not be too severe on
yourself, or Mrs Albany will scold you."

I am not afraid of her, tyrant though
she is," said Douglas. "Neville, will you
turn back to the Hall with us, and let me
introduce you to my people ? "

'* With great pleasure."

They were, in fact, only a short distance
from the old Hall, which had been built
near the river. Gabrielle rose, came quietly
behind the light, dainty chair, and laid her

hands on the handle, saying, as Chandos
would have taken it from her, —

Thanks, Dr Neville, but please let me
push it as usual ; see how light it is and
easy. Indeed, I like it ; it is no effort."

That this was true was self-evident the
moment she pushed the chair ; even up the
gentle slope it gave her unmistakably no
great exertion, and the physician's practised
eye took note that, slight built though she
was, every muscle, every fibre was full of a
steel-like subtle strength that was almost
masculine ; and, under strong excitement
or passion, might indeed put forth a power
which might even rival a man's strength.
The thought crossed him then — and before
many months had passed, he had cause to
remember that thought.

READ THE RIDDLE NEAR HOME.

^^I^SHE dainty chair, with its elastic
Opl ^^ network of fine springs and
^ ^u§^ noiseless - tired wheels, came
along the marble terrace and stopped before
the windows of the room where Sir
Arthur, after a long ride, sat half-dozing,
while Jessie read a novel, and Lady Glen-luna,
seated half behind the window
curtains, was drawing the gorgeous silks
through her embroidery, her own face and
manner as silky as the threads she wove.
But she had seen them coming, and almost
before Douglas's flute-like tones had called
"Adeline," her pretty little ladyship had

tripped out, all smiles and welcome, with
white, frank hand outstretched to the
physician.

I won't pretend to need the farce of an
introduction, Dr Neville," said smiling lip
and clear metallic voice. " I should guess
who you were, even if I had not heard so
much of you. I guessed the moment I saw
you all three that it could only be Dr
Neville with my dear Douglas."

Chandos bent low over the white, cold
hand as he answered that he was pleased to
meet her ; but Gabrielle, from her vantage
place behind the chair, noticed that the
hazel eyes scanned her as keenly as covertly
the moment she appeared, a fact which
Douglas also saw, as Adeline turned to call
her daughter and husband.

Jessie caught a very quiet, wicked look
from Douglas as her mother performed the
introduction, and then hearty, handsome Sir
Arthur came out to the group.

*' I am so very glad to have met you, Dr

Neville," he said cordially, and the contrast
between his and his wife's manner struck
three of those present as absolutely ludicrous
; " and I am sure I could not wish
my son in better hands than yours. I
wish you could persuade him not to be such
a recluse ; more society, I am certain,
would — "

"Oh, Sir Arthur!" exclaimed Mrs Albany,
laughingly, "please don't make him
medical again. Indeed, Dr Neville," lightly
striking his arm with that inimitable,
charming imperativeness which a handsome,
thoroughly accomplished woman of
the world knows so well how to use,
you shall not answer now."

I must e'en obey a lady's command,"
said Hands, bowing, " and only beg Lady
Glen-Luna to be my defender. I hear you
are going to desert the Park for five or
six weeks."

Yes, we go to town tomorrow, I think ;
and when, we return I hope we shall have

the pleasure of seeing both yourself and
your sister. You see," said my lady, with
her frank, merry laugh, " that I have heard
of her, too, in the village ; I am such a
little chatterton, you know."

Mamma is frank about her delinquencies,"
said Jessie ; " is she not ? "

Well, Miss Glen-Luna, but chatterboxes
enliven the world, and so we must
not call it a delinquency. But I fear I
must take leave now," as the clock on the
tower chimed out four. 'you ladies have
beguiled me."

Must you run away so soon," said Sir
Arthur and Adeline together ; "' cannot you
stop longer ? "

You are very kind ; I cannot, indeed,"
he answered, and took leave with a very
odd impression on his mind ; firstly, that
iu the diversion Gabrielle had made to
his reply to Sir Arthur, there had been
a far different motive to that which lay
so fairly on the surface; and secondly,

that she was relieved when he walked
away.

But he had not gone more than just
beyond the reach of even Douglas's keen
ear shot when Gabrielle suddenly exclaimed,
—

Ma foi ! how provoking ! I have forgotten
to send my message to his sister
after all ! Please excuse me a few minutes,
Mr Glen-Luna."

Douglas bowed, and leaned back, watching
the slight, graceful figure rapidly moving ;
while the others re-entered the room, declaring
it was " too hot in the sun."

Hot ! " said Douglas, shrugging his
shoulders ; *' it never is in England ! "

I think, my dear, that you and Mrs
Albany are salamanders," laughed his stepmother
through the windows.

Meanwhile Glands Neville had seen
Gabrielle, as she neared him, and instantly
turned to meet her, asking quickly, —

Is anything the matter, Mrs Albany ? "

Not as you mean, Dr Neville ; but — can
you spare me a few moments ? "

As many as you please ! " lie answered
gravely.

She stood for a minute looking down,
her fingers twisting and untwisting her
watch guard. She was on dangerous
ground, and, knowing it, meant him to
show his colours first. Hers was the most
subtle nature ; his the more candid.

Dr Neville, I owe you an apology for
my interruption a few minutes back. I
am afraid that it puzzled and vexed you ;
that you perhaps misunderstood me."

She lifted those searching eyes of hers
straight to his as she spoke.

*' Certainly not vexed, dear Mrs Albany,"
said Chandos earnestly ; '* not misunderstood,
I fancy, for I felt that you had some good
reason for your apparently laughing words ;
puzzled, because I could not quite see your
motive."

No ! You were going to thoroughly

endorse Sir Arthur's words ; add that
society, a house full of guests, was the very
thing his son should have, en fin, show your
tactics."

Why not ? Sir Arthur, I am certain,
and so are you, would do anything for his
son's welfare."

Certainly he would ; but," she looked
down again, with an odd, comical, significant
smile about her delicate, firm lips,
*^ don't you remember the story told of.
the Duke of Marlborough at the council of
war?"

You mean the one where he had secret
information that a spy was present, and so
gave out a totally opposite plan to his real
scheme, despite all remonstrances."

Preciseness, monsieur. Read the
riddle near home — et voila tout ! I leave
that to your quick wits ; to mine the task
of Marlborough. I only ask you to remember
how wisely the ancients placed
Truth at the bottom of a well ; and leave

the rest to me. I think I am more than a
match for the enemy ; and I think I read
your impression."

'' I knew that," said Chandos strongly,
metal upon metal — false heraldry. I
Cannot think either that Douglas Glen-Luna
is deceived."

Not for one moment," said Gabrielle
emphatically, *' but he makes no sign.
Now we understand each other, Dr Neville."

"Perfectly, and we have one end in
view."

*' One end. Now adieu, and warn your
sister. Will you bring her to see us soon,
if she will come ? "

Nothing will give her greater pleasure,
Mrs Albany."

He raised his hat, bowed low, and went
on, while she returned to Douglas Glen-luna.
He gave her such a keen searching
look that she could scarcely bear it, and the
colour tinged the soft dark cheeks.

*' I beg your pardon," he said quietly ;

shall we go back under the trees, now
please, if you are not tired ? "

"I am not at all tired, Mr Douglas. I
have taken a liberty with your name ; do
you know ? "

I am only happy if my name can be of
any use to you, sweet nurse. What have
you done with it ? "

I have asked Miss Neville to come and
see us."

He winced at that, and did not answer.
She bent down a little as she pushed the
chair.

'forgive me ! It grieves me to probe a
wound and cause suffering, but there must
be a beginning, you know."

I know you are always right, and I
wrong," said Glen-Luna, dropping his curly
head back on the cushions to look up in
her face. "I am afraid you will find me a
handful to manage, after all, Mrs Albany."

But Gabrielle only shook her head and
laughed.

An open foe is nothing. It is the
secret enemy that one must needs dread."

Did he know that as well as she did % Did
she not know that he did, or why had he
never once asked a question about any one
thing that had passed since she came there ?
Silence was golden to both unless the
serpent's fang came too close, and then —
what then ?

"nous avons change tout cela."

STILL, heavy, brooding evening,
sultry and oppressive, the atmosphere
charged with that
subtle electricity, which is cantle and most
incorrectly called " thundery," and few of
those who made units of the thousands
ever passing to and fro the busy streets
of mighty London, but could have predicted
a heavy storm before many hours
had passed.

Every breath of air — even

Summer evening's latest sigh,
That shuts the rose."

VOL. L

N

had died away at sunset, and across the
deep blue vault above, with its myriads
of starry worlds, there lay like a slumbering
giant overhead, with sweeping robe,
and arms outstretched over the great
city, a mass of lurid clouds, dark and
ominous, flecked a little here and there
with fleecy white that had caught the
last glow of the sunlight, as the wings of
the stormy petrel at sea catch its glint —
wondrous and most awesome beauty in
those far-ofi" heavens — and yet how many
of those restless, surging thousands below,
bent on business or pleasure, paused once
and glanced up to admire ? Certainly not
that tall, powerfully-built man — whom we
should know — for he only looked up ashe
leaped out of a hansom in Great Portland
Street, to mutter a curse on the
close heat.

He was in evening dress, beneath the
light summer wrap coat which he wore,
so it seemed an odd place to alight — still

more odd that he turned at once down
the first eastward outlet, and in a short
while made his way into the quiet bye
street into which, only shortly before, he
had followed Gabrielle Albany. At that
same house, kept by worthy little Mrs
May, Leicester Albany once more stopped,
with a somewhat blank look as he saw a
neat card in the parlour window, with
'' Furnished apartments" on it.

The devil ! " he muttered angrily,
where' s the bird flown ? If it were only
out off England — only off with some lover,
I'd be down on her, and try at least to
get rid of her. I'll find out, though, where
she is."

He went up the steps and knocked.
Mrs May herself answered it, for she had
seen a well-dressed gentleman pause outside,
and had an eye to business. His
very first words, however, urbanely enough
spoken, disabused her of any such idea, and
caused a revulsion in her quick little head.

"You lately had a lady lodging here
named Albany, I think ? "

Mrs May was on her guard at once, and
pursed her lips, eyeing the stranger aslant
with no friendly expression.

"Mrs Albany left me over a fortnight
ago, sir," she said curtly, but civilly. " I
was sorry to lose her too."

Indeed ! had she been with you long,
then?"

She kept on my rooms for two years,
though she was much abroad herself"

Was she ? And she has left London,
you say ? "

"I didn't say nothing of the sort, sir,"
returned Mrs May sharply. " I said she'd
left me, and that's all I knows."

You don't know where she has gone ? "

No, I don't."

He did not believe her — he was furious
at the fiat denial, and said, with an evil
sneer, "I suppose, then, my good woman,
that you do not know either that Mrs

Albany left her husband in California about
two years ago — fled, I mean, with a lover,
and came here and humbugged the law
into giving her a separation with a cooked
case."

Mrs May blazed out at once all in one
breath of wrath.

I wish she could 'a cooked you up, I
do, for daring to tell such lies ! Upon
my soul and body, I don't believe your
nothing better than her scamp of a husband
his own self, and if lever you come
here again, I'll give you in charge for
desperation of character, I will, you nasty,
mean wretch, you."

Bang went the door right in his face,
and he could hear the little woman's step
stumping angrily away within. His own
face was livid as he turned away into the
street, and he laid this up as another count
against his wronged wife.

But smooth and urbane, and handsome
once more was Mr Leicester Albany, when

not long afterwards he lounged into the
stylish stalls of the Prince of Wales's,
glanced round, and relapsed into the velvet
seat, with a nod to one or two young men
who were two or three rows behind.

Who the deuce is that dashing-looking
card, Eosslyn ? " asked the young man who
had not been noticed. " I saw him on the
Row last week, and he came out of Aylmer's
salon de jeu last night just as I was
leaving — a new face surely this last fortnight
! "

Percy Eosslyn was one of those sort of
society flies who are always more or less
posted up as to the who's-who of the leaves
and twigs eddying about on the restless
waters of London society.

Yes, a new face," he said ; *' an awfully
jolly fellow too, and plenty of money — nota
bad catch for some girl who wants a good
settlement ; some one introduced Clifford
Brandon at the Polyglot, and he and I
rather struck up an acquaintance."

How is it that he's such a stranger to
London '? " said the younger, in his first
season. " He's nearer forty than thirty if
he's a day."

'' Oh, it's only lately that he's come into
a fortune' returned Rosslyn ; *' he's been
abroad, and in California a good deal, but
he says he's tired of roughing it, and
means to enjoy his aunt's money in the
civilised world."

"" Time he did," returned young Salton,
who did not at present appear quite as
entice by Mr Clifford Brandon as the
helter-skelter son of Colonel Eosslyn, for
such Percy was. " You must introduce me
though, Ross."

All right. Ah, Jove ! there are some
people I know," bowing low towards a box
to the right. " Didn't know they were in
town, — Lady and Miss Glen-Luna."

Deuced pretty, both of them," commented
Saltoun, 'especially the daughter.
I say, Brandon's twigging them too, and

saw you bow. Whew ! how frightfully hot
it is ! "

An opinion evidently shared by every one
in the theatre, to judge by the faces, and the
indefinite — ah — of breath when the gas was
lowered as the curtain rose again, and a
puff of air, somewhat sirocco-like certainly,
came from the stage. A few moments later,
while inimitable Mrs Bancroft chained the
attention of the house, there came a deep
growl of thunder above, as if the cloudy
monster afar had roused himself at last ;
then a flash that gleamed like daylight
through the windows behind the gallery,
and then a roar, a crash that shook the very
roof and walls of the building, and seemed
as if the whole mighty canopy of heaven
were rent in twain. A woman in the
gallery uttered a half shriek, aud cried out
that the theatre was struck and would take
fire ! There had been an upward look instantly
— an upheaving of fear through the
audience — there would possibly have been

a panic, but Leicester Albany, tall and
imposing, stood up for a moment, glanced
towards the gallery, and, as if speaking to
some one near him, said quietly, but aloud
and distinctly, —

They don't seem to know that there is
a very lofty lightning conductor on the roof."

The crowd settled, every ear heard, every
eye turned on the speaker as he resumed
his seat. Eosslyn said audibly, " Well
done, Brandon," and Jessie Glen-Luna
whispered enthusiastically to her mother,
What a dear fellow, mamma ! Isn't he
handsome ? Do make Percy Eosslyn introduce
him. I saw him nod to him."

We'll see, my dear ; if he knows the
Rosslyns at all, we are certain to meet him,
for the Colonel and his wife are in town
too. Ah ! another clap of thunder ! How
dreadful ! And so hot ! " fanning herself
languidly, " I shall be glad when the curtain
falls."

I wish we had not come at all," said

Jessie. *' I'm dreadfully afraid of being out
in a thunder storm."

The storm, too, was near, for the roll
of thunder was almost ceaseless ; and before
the end of the last act Lady Glen-luna
suggested departing. Jessie rose and
followed her out. Some others were leaving
also, but, on receiving the name at the
entrance, the policeman soon brought up the
carriage. The thunder had rolled for some
minutes, though the heavens were now a
mass of lurid electric clouds as Albany,
coming towards the entrance with his wrap-coat
over his arm, saw — saw those two ladies
again, too, and noticed that the elder had
diamonds in her ears.

Lady Glen-Luna's carriage ! "
In that moment, as Jessie stepped forward
to reach it, there was a sudden crash
of thunder overhead — a gleam, a flash of
forked lightning, so fearfully dazzling, so
close, that every one started back with hands
to their eyes — Jessie, with a wild shriek of

frantic terror ; her skirt was just alight, and
with that shriek she was rushing madly
forward, half blinded, courting the very
death or injuries she fled, when, with one
leap, Albany seized her in his powerful
grasp, wrapped his overcoat close around
her limbs, crushed the great door mat over
that, and so completely smothered the flame
beyond the portion of dress and underskirt.
It was all the work of a minute, and poor
little Jessie, really unhurt, but more than
half fainting: with terror — hearing: the

g

shrieks of the women and her mother's
voice, as in a dream, was lifted in those
strong arms and borne to the carriage —
placed at her mother's side.

You will permit me to escort you safe
home, madam ? " said Albany, seeing that
the mother was as white and almost as
shaken as the daughter, and, hardly waiting
for her trembling, —

"Thank you — I cannot trouble you,"
stepped in, and the carriage dashed off",

leaving the crowd to stare and the storm
to rage ; for now the heavens were opened
and the rain came down in a deluge.

Leicester drew up both windows, and
bent forward as Jessie began to revive,
under her mother s strong salts.

I do not think the flame reached her,"
he said gently. *' I cannot but be thankful
for the chance that brought me out before
the end. I went to catch my friend, Percy
Eosslyn."

You have saved my child's life ! " said
Adeline, for once with real warmth, real
earnest sincerity and feeling — for this girl
was the one thing she did care for — " and
I do not know how to thank you enough ! "

Indeed, madam, you make too much
of the slight service it has been my good
fortune to render your daughter."

Ah, you may make light of it ! but
her mother and father, nor she herself,
cannot be so ungrateful. Who are we to
thank ? " and Jessie's blue eyes, as she lay

against her mother, looked up in his with
a mute entreaty. How bewitching she
looked !

My name is Clifford Brandon. Very
much at your service, Lady Glen-Luna."

Thank you ! I saw you come in and
bow to young Rosslyn." Adeline added,
** His father s place is only ten miles from
our own, at Doring."

Albany bowed, and secretly thanked his
lucky stars. If only this pretty little thing,
were an heiress !

The carriage presently stopped at a handsome
house in Park Lane, and Mr Leicester
Albany — for we will still give him his
own name — assisted the fair Jessie out.

You will do us the pleasure of calling
tomorrow, I hope, Mr Brandon," said Adeline,
cordially shaking hands ; " and the
carriage shall take you on home now. Nay,
I insist on it ! "

You must, indeed ! " added Jessie languidly,
but with a sweet smile ; and, bowing

low, Gabrielle's husband accepted and reentered
the carriage, giving the direction
to his chambers in Grafton Street, where a
handsome douceur to my lady's coachman,
made that worthy decide "him to be every
inch a gentleman."

Certainly, Mr Leicester Albany had not
done a bad stroke of business for himself
that night.

And so he himself thought.

THE NEXT MORNING.

R LEICESTER ALBANY was

certainly not one of those modest
gentlemen who are content
to blossom and bloom in unobtrusive, unrecognised
virtue. He was the last man
likely to lose a chance windfall or miss an
opportunity for want of that inimitable
quality, which perhaps no lexicon so exactly
describes as the very terse, if not
equally elegant slang word " cheek." He
was perfectly aware of the value of that
quality, used as he so well knew how to
use it, in addition to his personal advantages.
He saw as clear as daylight that

<?>

he had made a very decided impression
on this Lady Glen-Luna and the fair girl
he had unquestionably rescued from at
least a terrible injury, if not death. The
introduction was out of the beaten track,
romantic ; and, if he had not much of the
substance left, he could assume the mask
of sentiment enough to deceive the most
of the world. His scornful wife had only
spoken truth in the stern irony of her
words —

"■ In birth, appearance, manners, you area
gentleman — in nothing else'*

But it was the first he kept before the
world ; the latter he hid.

It only remains to ascertain her prospects,"
quoth Gabrielle's admirable husband
dryly, " to mark her as my quarry.
Pretty little thing, by Jove ! and I am
certain, easy to twist round my finger,
which * I'adorata Gabrielle ' never would be,
curse her, even as a slip of sixteen. So
now for Percy Kosslyn."

He completed an adjustment of dress
before the mirror with an extreme, almost
foppish attention, to an effective
appearance, and took his departure
in a most halcyon state of self-satisfaction.


By Jove, you are in luck, you are, Cliff
Brandon ! " was young Eosslyn's first salute.
"I've just heard all about that affair last
night. Haven't you just cut everybody outwith
that little heiress ! " ,

** Heiress, is she?" said Albany, carelessly,
as he dropped into a chair. " Is
she an only child, then ? "

Well, it comes to that, I suppose, practically,
my dear fellow — try one of those
cigars ; for, though there is a son by a
first marriage, he can't live long. Got
awfully smashed, you know, in some railway
accident ages ago. He's dying by
inches, I believe ; so somebody said, t'other
day, at the Bijou."

"Poor devil!" said Albany, lighting a

VOL. I.

cigar. " I nearly got smashed once — ugh !
So this girl is — "

Heiress of all the broad Glen-Luna lands,
after her brother ! " said Eosslyn ; " and, if
she wasn't, I don't believe she'd have such
a contemptible dower."

Still dowers don't generally run to
much," returned his companion. "Not
that I care myself. Dame Fortune has
been kind to me on the whole, so that I
can please myself. I am going to call
there, as Lady Glen-Luna asked me ; and
so you may as well come too."

All right, my boy ; I'm agreeable. The
two ladies are charming, and Sir Arthur a
jolly old fellow."

What sort of being is this dying son ? "
asked Albany, as they descended to the
street, and turned towards Park Lane.

*' What — Douglas Glen-Luna ? He was
the most splendid fellow you ever saw !
The most fascinating man in every way,
and everybody's favourite. It's an awful

shame ! No one has seen him since the
accident, of course."

'* Where is he, then ? "

Oh, at Luna Park."

Then, Lady Glen - Luna is his stepmother
? "

** Father, my boy. I don't think she is
much over forty, and he is thirty. How do
you like her ? "

"Charming, I should think. Her daughter
is very like her."

Yes. Jessie isn't a bit of a Glen-Luna ;
which is a pity, pretty as she is, for if she
was, she'd be bound to be a regular beauty.
So was the first wife, by her portrait ; but,
by Venus, Brandon, talk of beauty ! I
once saw a woman whom I defy any one to
rival. I should know her again ; quite
young ; two or three-and-twenty, perhaps.
She was with an old blind gentleman, in a
box at the opera at Vienna. He was
English ; she was not, I think."

It's clear, cher Loss, that you lost your

heart to this inconnue,^^ laughed Albany,
with the slightest suspicion of a sneer.
"What was she like?"

My dear fellow, language fails me —
tall, slight as a girl, graceful as a houri,
rather dark, very pale, features like a statue
gifted with vivid life."

*' Isn't that tautology ? But go on."

And her glorious dark eyes — "

Which it is evident she used with great
effect," again put in Albany.

She never looked at me, mon cher ;
though I certainly saw more of her than the
stage."

"And how did this beauty dress — wear
her hair, my Romeo ? "

Dress ? — exquisitely, in black velvet
and silver ornaments, and her hair was
just in rich masses of ripple and curls allover
her head, fringing her forehead, falling
on to her neck. Foi ! I tell you she
was superb ! You wouldn't look at fifty
Jessie after her, I'm sure."

'* Perhaps not," said the other dryly.
He had recognised his own beautiful wife
fast enough, even with such a bald
rhapsodical description. " Who was your
diva, eh ? "

Don't know, except that she was somebody's
wife, for she wore a wedding-ring.
I saw it as she drew off her left glove."

Somebody should be a very happy
man," said Albany, with another sneer,
except for the fact of being her husband J'

Eosslyn laughed ; but by this time they
had reached the house in Park Lane, and,
in reply to their inquiry whether the ladies
were at home, were shown up into the
drawing-room, where they found not only
the two ladies, but Sir Arthur, whose hearty
reception of the soi-disant Brandon, and
heartfelt thanks to him, really meant far
more gratitude than the effusive welcome
of Adeline, or the slight blush and smile of
Jessie, the most arrant flirt, by the way,
like her mother before her.

And you must both come to dinner
with us," said Sir Arthur presently, when
the accident and fearful thunderstorm had
been discussed, "for my wife has asked a
few friends, quite a little dinner party this
time, to whom we should like to introduce
you, Mr Brandon. Do you know Lady
Constance Lee and her daughter ? "

I have not that honour. Sir Arthur,"
answered Albany, with a glance at Jessie ;
*' I have not been long in town, you
see."

'* Indeed ; nor have we. I hate town
myself," said the baronet, laughing, " except
for a very short time ; but my wife and
daughter like to see the gay world, of
course, though they're not dull at Luna
Park at all."

Sir Arthur is such a sportsman, Mr
Brandon," said Adeline, merrily, " that he
hardly feels happy unless he has a gun or
something of the sort in his hand. Do you
shoot ? "

*' Oh yes, Lady Glen-Luna ; I am very
fond of sport."

Which quite won Sir Arthur, and the
visitors took leave till dinner time.

But the sport Mr Leicester Albany liked
best was to be found in certain brilliantly
lighted salons with cards instead of game.
That beautiful woman down at Luna Park
could have told that too well.

SISTER ROSE GOES TO LUNA PARK.

WONDER what made Neville
bury himself in Doring, even
for a few months ? "
With that remark, Douglas Glen-Luna
broke a long silence, one sunny afternoon.
He was lying in his most usual place on
the couch, for they had been out all the
morning, and he was rather tired ; so his
sweet autocrat," as he called her, had
banned anything but rest this afternoon.

She had been standing for a long time
leaning against the lintel of the window,
her hands loosely locked before her, her

eyes fixed dreamily on the fair panorama
of hill and wold and river spread before
their vision, and her thoughts perhaps on
her own sorrowful, stormy past, or perhaps
• — heaven help the poor, passionate, human
heart ! — on a present very much nearer to
her. So deep had been her reverie, so far
from Chandos Neville, that the sound of
Douglas's voice, low and soft though it
was, made her almost start.

'the same thought has crossed me more
than once," she answered him. " They
have evidently some very fair private
means, and had a practice in London.
Indeed, from a remark he made the day
after your family left, I fancy he runs up
for one whole day every week."

Ah, well," said Douglas contentedly,
"whatever the reason, it is fortunate forme
that he came, and that the lift broke,
too, however that happened."

It was the first time he had voluntarily
made any allusion to the cause of that accident,

and now, as he said it, he looked
straight into her face. She met that
searching look without the quiver or droop
of an eyelid, and answered, —

It was a very perilous curse of Kehama ;
and if it has turned into a blessing, it was
never — "

She stopped short, setting her teeth
sharply, and added with a shudder that
was real enough, —

Don't talk of it — it was too terrible I
I wish Miss Neville would call." Gabrielle
moved now to her little, low easy-chair,
near the couch. '' Do you know
that she reminds me always of Nathaniel
the Israelite, in whom was no guile."

Does she ? Mrs Albany, do you ever
I am sure you do — in your own mind
liken or identify people you know with
their prototypes in music, those that have
anything marked about them at all ? "

Oh yes, often ! Sometimes to a class
of music, sometimes to a particular thing."

Glen-Luna smiled, playing with his
moustache. It was evident that he had
assigned a musical prototype to his companion.


Well," he said, " and what, then, is
this ' Sister Rose,' as her brother calls
her?"

Gabrielle glanced up under the long
lashes.

I don't know what you would think
of her ; but to me, she is the very personification
of the divine Felix's exquisite
Calm and prosperous voyage.' "

Your very contrast, then," said Douglas
impulsively. " For you, Rubinstein's gorgeous,
passionate ' Ocean ' symphony is
your very self Ah ! pardon me. My
thoughts escaped too fast into words, Mrs
Albany."

No, no ! Why should it not ? Who
indeed, should so well hold free interchange
of thought, if not those who are
constant companions, as we necessarily

are ? Where did you hear that magnificent
work ? "

"Where? Well, abroad; the very first
time of its performance. I wish you had
been there, dear Mrs Albany ! "

Gabrielle laughed.

How do you know I was not ? "

"Ah, you were, I do believe ! " exclaimed
Douglas ; " were you not ? "

Yes, I was there."

I wonder," he said, with a restless
movement, "if I shall ever really be ina
concert room again, and with you. I
dare not hope — think — of the future,
sometimes."

"I can feel exactly how you feel," said
Gabrielle gently; "but that painful dread,
that very fear of hope will lessen as you
grow stronger, and have more people about
you again."

*' En effet you think the instrument
has gone thoroughly out of tune."
But his smile was sad. "I think you

will do more to tune it than a score of
people."

Shall I ? But here, I think, comes
one who will help," said Mrs Albany, as
some one opened the anteroom door, and
a footman entered, bearing a card on a
tiny silver salver which he handed to his
mistress, as Douglas's own household had
speedily learned to regard Gabrielle Albany.

Show Miss Neville in, Watson," she
said, at once rising to meet the welcome
visitor, as the footman ushered her in.
Dear Miss Neville, we have been hoping
to see you every day."

But I suppose," added Douglas, ashe
shook hands, at once fully endorsing
Gabrielle's comparison, " I must not say
better late than never."

Well, I daresay I deserve it, Mr Glen-luna,"
said Sister Eose, with her gentle
smile, as she took the seat placed for her,
and indeed I meant to have come two
or three days ago, only that thunderstorm

prevented me. I see by the papers that it
burst that night over London with great
violence."

** Yes, I daresay I shall hear of it when
my people write," answered Glen-Luna.
"Why did not your brother come too,
Miss Neville? He must not think his
early morning visit is ever to count at all,
because that is strictly professional."

I will tell him that, Mr Glen-Luna, and
he would have called with me if he had
been in Doring, but directly he left you,
he went up to town to see how his practice
is getting on. You see," said Eose Neville,
softly smoothing her white hands over her
dress, "that for a long time past Chandos
has been overworking between his practice
and a very abstruse professional work in
which he was engaged, and he is so earnest,
you know, so deeply interested in all his
work," — she paused.

Ay," said Douglas strongly, " his very
heart is in his work, if ever man's was ! "

The brown eyes thanked him as their
owner went on, —

So it is. Well, at last he got so worn,
so overworked in serious earnest, that old
Dr M — told him plainly that unless he
had rest and change for some months he
would have a brain fever. I had been
singing the same song for a long time,
you know, but," — said sweet Sister Rose,
smiling benignly — "you young people
are so proud of your strength and intellect
that you never think that it can
be overworked ; you run till you drop.
Ah, you may look so wickedly guilty at
Mrs Albany, my dear." How sweetly
and naturally the words fell from those
patient, peaceful lips. "It is quite true,
and I suspect that Mrs Albany is every
bit as bad as you or Chandos on such
points ; you won't listen to reason till it is
almost too late."

Oh, Miss Neville ! Miss Neville ! " cried
Douglas, putting out both his hands, **I

shall have to lay lance in rest for both Mrs
Albany and myself."

"But you did get the doctor to hear reason,
Miss Neville % " said Gabrielle, with a rather
comic glance, and Sister Eose laughed as
merrily as a girl.

Oh yes, my dear ; at last he got a very
clever young man for a partner, and we
went abroad for a month or six weeks, and
then Mr Parker was obliged to go away fora
few months for some family reasons, and
asked Chandos to come here for him. Of
course, the work was very different from
his London practice, to which, indeed, he
really was not fit to return, at least they
all told him he would soon go all back
again. A couple of months here will make
hall right for him. But now, of course, his
staying or leaving here will not depend on
Mr Parker's return."

He must not stop here on my account,
Miss Neville," said Douglas quickly.

"Hush!" said Gabrielle, touching his

hand ; and Sister Rose answered, smiling.—


My dear Mr Glen-Luna, if you wish to
get the most thorough scolding you ever
had in your life, say that to Chandos himself.
He has so set his heart upon this
matter, and I never yet knew him put his
hand to the plough and look back ; neither
will a few more months in such lovely
scenery be such a very great hardship."

Are you fond of the country, Miss

Neville ? " asked Mrs Albany.

The answer was thoroughly characteristic.


Very fond of it in summer, my dear ;

and then 1 love gardening, and the sweet

fresh air and peaceful quiet. I am quite

different to you two young people, you see,"

she added, smiling, " and then I have fifty

years ; not that I ever was different though,

or that I mean you will change materially

with years. It is a matter of difference of

nature."

VOL. I. p

But you don't, then, prefer the country
for headquarters ? " said Douglas.

*' Oh dear, no ; I like best to live in
London, not in the whirl and racket which
you people like, but still I am fond of my
kind, of the society of those I like. I think,
with old John Anderson's wife, that ' God's
master work is man ; ' though I am not
sufficiently gifted with metaphysical power
to call myself a student of human
nature."

Sweet Eose ! No, she simply followed
her instincts and sympathies, and they rarely
misled her, if she could not fathom the
extreme of evil or passion so foreign to
herself, or be capable of fighting out the
world's fiercest battle, like Gabrielle Albany.

Miss Neville rose as she said the last
words, but Glen-Luna exclaimed, —

You are not going to run away so soon,
dear Miss Neville ? You have no excuse,
as your brother is away. Do stop and give
us the pleasure of your company for the

rest of the day, and Marston shall drive
you home."

The pleading grey eyes and entreating
hand were irresistible, certainly, even without
Gabrielle's eager, — "You must stop, Miss
Neville," and Sister Rose yielded by no
means unwillingly.

Then come to my room and take off
your things," said her hostess. " Have you
dined yet ? "

Will you be shocked if I confess that J
dined at two to-day, Mrs Albany % "

*' Oh no ; we sinned in company, for we,
having only our two selves to please, chose
to have dinner when we came in from a
long drive, so we will have a cosy high
tea!"

It does not matter what dreadful things
one does in the country, does it, Miss
Neville ? " said Douglas, laying back his
head, " even cosy high tea at — six ? I am
ashamed of you, Mrs Albany, really, for
encouraging such doings."

You don't like tea then, I suppose % "
said Rose.

"Oh, ma foil Yes I do, though, Miss
Neville, especially from fair hands," returned
wicked Douglas, kissing the tips of
his fingers to them as they passed out of
the room.

Such a cosy pretty tea it was, too, and
Sister Rose sat beaming like mellowed sunlight
on her two brilliant companions, and
feeling as if she had known them for years.
Perhaps the feeling was reciprocal. Conversation
never flagged, and then, just after
the equipage had been removed, the post
came in with London letters ; one for
Douglas, and a little packet, both addressed
in Adeline's hand.

He was putting them aside, but Rose
Neville arrested his hand.

Please do not make a stranger of me,
Mr Glen-Luna, or I shall fly at once."

That would be too cruel," was the gallant
answer. " Eh hens since you kindly

permit me, I will see what the little belle
mere has to say of their doings, while madam
shows you that album of photographs."

The letter, which began, " My dearest
boy," contained a very gushing account of
the storm and Jessie's *' terrible danger" and
*' courageous rescue " by a friend of *' dear
Colonel Kosslyn's son Percy, who had called
with him in Park Lane the next day." She
enlarged much on the gifts and charms of
this Mr Clifford Brandon, whom they »11
liked so much." He was quite an acquisition
to society, etc. The packet contained
some beautiful new photos of herself, Jessie,
and Sir Arthur. " And, dear Douglas, I
was in such a hurry to catch this post that
you might Rave them quickly, that I wrapped
them over the cardboard with a piece of an
old newspaper which was in my desk — had
some faded photos of Jessie in it — so please
excuse such hasty wrapping."

Your letter seems amusing," said Gabrielle,
as he laughed once or twice.

*' So it is," said he, deftly tossing the
letter into her lap ; " it's so like la belle
mere. Please read it to Miss Neville. I
suppose poor Jessie really did have a narrow
escape, and the gentleman who saved
her has earned our gratitude ; but he seems
to have quite fascinated Adeline and my
dear sentimental little sister. Do read
it ; quite a lady's letter. Miss Neville."

Do you think all ladies write gushingly
and in exaggerated language, then ? " asked
Rose, amused.

Oh no ; I am sure you would not, and
I know that a certain Gabrielle Albany does
not," returned Glen-Luna, archly ; " but
you will admit that a great many ladies
do. I really now do not feel at all sure
that my sister was so nearly burnt at the
theatre door as her mother says, nor will
you when you read her letter."

Which while Mrs Albany read aloud, with
its many italics, Douglas undid the photos and
handed them to the ladies for inspection.

I must write to little Jessie," he said,
about her escape from that most horrible
enemy — fire ; besides, I must chaff her about
this lady-killer Brandon. She is a rare
little flirt, I am afraid. Miss Neville."

Ah, well, I suppose most young people
take their turn," said Sister Rose indulgently,
'' and we should not wish to put
old heads on young shoulders."

He laughed, and shook his head.

Oh no ! Certainly not." •

His hand, as he spoke, had been half
absently, perhaps a little restlessly, tearing
small bits off the top of the very piece of
old newspaper wrapping alluded to in the
letter ; and Sister Eose, pointing to it,
said, —

Pardon me. Is that anything you
wish to keep ? "

His glance dropped on the print directly.
He had torn away the headlong and name \
but his eye fell upon the words, —

This was a suit for a judicial separation

on the ground of cruelty. The respondent,
when called upon in the usual way, did not
appear ; and the cause was, therefore, proceeded
with. The petitioner stated — "

Carelessly, more because the quick glance
could not fail to take in the summarised
report almost all at once, Douglas read
it down ; so little dreaming whose most
miserable story of wrong upon wrong he
was reading. How should he, when he
had never heard it ? He threw down the
paper with an almost passionate exclamation.


Look there, Miss Neville ! Man was
made a little lower than the angels, we
know ; but here is one of those records
that might almost induce one to believe,
with old Jeremy Taylor, that there are
some beings in this world who are verily
the offspring of devils and witches ! I
should like to have a loaded pistol in my
hand, and such a thing as that within

Gabrielle, who was placing the new
photos in an album, looked up with some
surprise, asking, —

** What case have you got hold of ? "
While Eose took it up, glanced through
it, and laid the paper down with a look
of incredulous horror and an actual
shudder.

It cannot be all true ! It is too horrible
— a man to actually gamble away his
own young wife ! Impossible ! " •

Impossible — was it ? Why, then, that
sharp, quick start from the beautiful
woman sitting there ? Why that sudden,
burning flush of shame, and as sudden
ghastly pallor, that left her very lips
bloodless ? The truth flashed upon both
at once, and Douglas started half up with
flashing eyes and passionate words.

'' Mrs Albany, forgive me ! I never
dreamed of this ! Saints in Heaven ! I
would I had the dastard here, to rid
the world of such a reptile ! "

"Hush! Oh, hush!" said Gabrielle,
hoarsely. " I never meant — I — I — " The
stern will was struggling fiercely for its
wonted mastery ; but pitying Sister Eose
bent forward with outstretched hands.

My poor heart ! Oh, my poor child ! "

And the proud, suffering woman, broken
down, knelt suddenly at Eose Neville's feet,
and buried her face in her lap ; not weeping,
but quivering from head to foot with an
emotion that would have its own fierce
way for many minutes. Then she said,
brokenly, very low, as if the bitter shame
were hers.

Forgive me — both ! It was only that
it brought it all back so, so terribly ! I
would not have had your noble hearts
pained by such a miserable story ! " She
rose up now ; and, putting one hand in
Eose's, stretched the other to Douglas,
whose clasp closed on it instantly like a
vice.

Thank you ! " she said gratefully.

Will you both, when we are alone, mind
simply calling me by my own name, Gabrielle
? The other ; you understand — and
forgive my foolishness ! "

Glen-Luna could not, dared not, speak ;
but only lifted that little hand to his loyal
lips. But Miss Neville drew the younger
woman to her, and gently kissed her brow.

"So be it,- then, dear child ; only you
must call me Sister Rose."

How like balm on troubled waters came
sympathy and love ! Oh ! if it could only
heal that wounded heart, and give back the
fair bloom of unsealed youth !

But who can undo the past, or read the
future aright ?

MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.

Hyacinth ? "

"Well, mamma!"
Mother and daughter unmistakably.
There was quite enough indefinite,
not actual, likeness to show a near relationship
; though the question and witty repartee
that is told of the lovely Countess of
Chepstow and her daughter would hardly
have found point here.

*' What would you give for your mother's
beauty, my love ? " asked the countess.

Exactly as much as your ladyship would
give for my youth," returned the daughter.
But here the daughter had the palm in

both, for Hyacinth Lee, at three-and-twenty,
was still —

In the full flowering of her dainty May,

and gifted with a beauty which her mother,
good-looking as she was, had never had.
She was just now lounging in the laziest of
attitudes on the sofa in her mother's boudoir,
looking the very picture of saucy, idle
contentment. She had a pretty shrewd
idea of what lay behind the portentous
opening.

Well, mamma ! "

Lady Constance laid down the " society "
paper which she had been reading, and
folded her hands on her knees.

My dear, have you seriously reflected
that time does not stand still even for you,
and this is your fourth season ? "

Quite true, mamma. What then ? "

Well, child, it is time you thought of
accepting, not refusing, offers."

Hyacinth pursed up her pretty lips.

"Why is it time, dear? Mr Wright
hasn't appeared yet ! "

I think he has several times," returned
Lady Constance vexedly. " Why did you
refuse Lord Clennam in your first season ?
He was no fortune-hunter, for he had plenty."

"Didn't like his dear little turned-up
nose, mother mine," said the heiress
jauntily. "He was so plain, they would
have called us Beauty and the Beast ! "

Nonsense, Hyacinth ! You know well
enough that I don't want you to marry
any fortune-hunter just because he is titled,
though I do very much wish to see you
married to some eligible parti of your own
rank. A coronet is what you would grace,
and yet you have refused I don't know how
many ! "

I didn't care one bit for any of them,
mamma ! I'm of

The eclectic school of thought, which flirts with many ;
Too worldly wise to wed itself to any !

I'm not in love, mamma."

I sometimes think you are, Hyacinth,"
said Lady Constance, looking straight at
her refractory daughter.

I know you do, dear," said that young
lady composedly ; " and so I daresay do
others. Men are so conceited, that they
can't conceive a girl refusing their precious
hands, unless some happy swain has been
before them. I don't mean to get married
for either my beauty or money."

I tell you what I do think. Hyacinth,"
said Lady Constance, provoked out of all
caution, " that you might have had Douglas
Glen-Luna at your feet more than two years
ago if you had chosen."

Ah, poor Douglas ! " The girl's face
clouded suddenly. Then she said, in her
old manner, " Firstly, I did not choose, you
see, mamma dear, and secondly, he didn't
choose your humble servant. Very bad
taste of him, of course, but still he didn't
see it.

Nonsense, my love ! He admired you

immensely, and used to pay you more
attention — "

''My dear, self-tormenting mamma of
mammas, he never did, or said, or looked, or
cared for me one bit more than he did for
any other pretty girl he liked, and who liked
him. It was only the way of such a careless,
cavalier sort of fellow ; and we got on
so well, just I believe, because I didn't flirt
seriously or make him feel that I thought
he ' had intentions ' like Biggs. I know,"
she said, breaking into a very amused laugh,
that Lady Glen-Luna (and perhaps others
too) rather think i am J [hyacinth Lee still
for the sake of handsome, winning Douglas
Glen-Luna, whom she imagines no young
woman can help falling in love with, though
he never did himself, favourite as he
was."

If she does," exclaimed Lady Constance,
veering round with instantly-stirred maternal
india-nation, *' how dare she think
that my daughter is going to throw herself

at her stepson's head, just because he admired
her ! "

Oh, you dear old goosey ! and a second
aofo you scolded me because I had not

you

thrown myself at his head ! " cried Hyacinth,
laughing heartily, " How do you think this
new star of fashion — Mr Clifford Brandon —
will do ? 0)1 dit, he's awfully rich, and I'm
sure he is a most agreeable fellow, especially
to flirt with, and really, I suppose it is time
I began to seriously look out, or I shall be
left on the old maid's shelf," — this with a
sly, saucy gleam of fun in the blue eyes.
'^ Wasn't Jessie wild when he took me to
have an ice ? "

I think," said Lady Constance seriously,
that you had better leave Mr Brandon to
Jessie. He is well introduced, and rich
enough, I daresay, for a Croesus, and I like
him very much." (" Which I don't," muttered
Miss Hyacinth, " but he'll do to keep
one's hand in and get some fun") " But
VOL. I. Q

still he's not the 'parti I should choose for
my child."

'' Perhaps," thought " my child," pursing
her lips again, " she may choose for herself
some day." Then aloud, —

Oh, dear me ! Why in the world can't
the girls be let alone ? Why must they
marry, forsooth I I won't — unless I go
and marry a market gardener, like Dick
Driveller's adored Sophy Tackles, or some
poor struggling professional creature who — "

Hyacinth," interposed her mother,
solemnly, " if ever you dream of any such
a mesalliance you will never see my face
again."

Really, how awful ! " Miss Hyacinth
pulled a face a yard long. " I wonder
which of us would hold out the longest ?
Not you, mamma."

Don't you try me, daughter mine,"
returned Lady Constance, shaking her head ;
and don't send Mr Clifford Brandon to
ask me for your hand."

Oh dear, no, mamma 1 I should acceptor
refuse him myself, honour bright, dear.
I would not think of troubling you unnecessarily.
Ta-ta, now. I promised Jessie
Glen-Luna I'd ride with her."

And off tripped the refractory young lady
to dress, singing saucily enough, —

Oh, I should like to marry.
If that I could find
A fine young handsome fellow

Just suited to my mind." ^

Sunny bird of spring time ! Her life had
hitherto been as happy as Gabrielle Albany's
had been dark and sorrowful.

END OF VOL. I.

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

3 0112 045822373

V7«l

eli B RAR.Y

OF THE
UN Diversity
or ILLINOIS

B13
V.2

A NO VEL.

By

EDITH STEWART Dreary,

AUTHOR OF " A DEATH RING," " SWORN FOES," "BAPTISED
WITH A CURSE," " TWO FLOWERS," ETC., ETC.

IN Til BEE VOLUMES.

VOL. II

LONDON: F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

18 8 3.

\^All Rights reserved. ^^

Crown Svo, cloth, y. 6d. each.

The following Volumes of the Series are now ready:—
MY SISTER THE ACTRESS. By Florence Marryat.

" My Sister the Actress " is the best novel we have had the pleasure of
reading From the pen of Miss Marryat.' — yon Btdl.

THE DEAN'S WIFE. By Mrs Eiloart.

Any reader who wants a good story thoroughly well told cannot do better
than read " The Dean's Wife." 'john Bull.

I A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence Marryat.

j ' A really charming story, full of delicate pathos and quiet humour ;
pleasant to read and pleasant to remember'— y^i/m Bull.

TWO MEN AND A MAID. By Harriettt Jay.

Compared with the former works of the authoress of "The Queen of
Connaught," this novel must be pronounced second to none.' — GraJ>kic.

SWEETHEART AND WIFE. By Lady Constance
Howard.

'The story from first to last is attractive, and cannot fail to command
wide favour.' — Whitehall Review.

PHYLLIDA. By Florence Marryat.

"' Phyllis " is a novel of which the author may be justly proud.' —
Adorning Post.

BARBARA'S WARNING. By the Author of ' Recommended
to Mercy.'

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

iv Contents.

CHAPTER IX.

ANTAGONISM, . . . . . 100

CHAPTER X.

GABRIELLE BETRAYS DOUGLAS, . .114

CHAPTER XI.

SANDS MAKE THE MOUNTAINS, . .136

CHAPTER XII.

MISTRESS AND MAN, . . . . 146

CHAPTER XIII.

CHOOSING THE PARTS, . . .154

CHAPTER XI y.

CROSS CURRENTS, . . . .170

CHAPTER XY.

THE NEW "OLIVIA," 180

CHAPTER Xii.

CRUMBLING BENEATH THEIR FEET, . .195

CHAPTER XVII.

THE BALL — THE PLAY, . . . 201

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE BALL A BUTTERFLY SINGES ITS WINGS, . 219

Chapter I.

TWO FAVOURITES.

^I^P Here are some people with whom,
as they say in South America,
you may "eat a barrel of salt "
and not know them, or be less a stranger
with them at the end than at the beginning
; there are others au contraire to whom
we are as unerringly drawn by some subtle
rapport — some chord of sympathy on which
a friendship ripens — often too with opposite
natures which cannot count its growth
VOL. 11. A

and strength by days or weeks. Such was
the friendship between the two Nevilless
and the two tenants of the west wing.
Certainly a singular conjunction of circumstances
had combined at the very outset of
the acquaintance to break down and through
all the usual barriers which must otherwise
have stood for some time. And yet it
would have been hard to find two women
more dissimilar than Rose Neville and
Gabrielle Albany. The one was an absolute
embodiment of the words " Peace on
earth, goodwill towards men," — one of those
rare beings from whom all evil and temptation
seem literally to roll away like oil from
water, to whom, indeed, that which to most
others was temptation was none to her,
simply because there was nothing in her
that met it ; she had the widest sympathies
of truest philanthropy, deep clinging affections,
patient, enduring love, — but none of
those strong passions and masculine forces
which were the very ebb and flow of that

other nature's tides. Neither could any
sophistry deceive her, or casuistry blind
her, for, though if there was any fallacious
hole in it she might not perhaps be always
able to intellectually pull it to pieces, her
singularly intense moral rectitude would go
straight through and through all the network
to the right thing as unerringly as
the carrier pigeon comes home ; it was an
instinct. You might puzzle her reason,
perhaps, or mentally put her in a fog,, but
never morally. Many an intellect which
dwarfed hers, many a schoolman steeped to
the lips in erudition might have sat with
advantage, morally — giving the word its-widest
scope — at the feet of this gentle
Gamaliel. That was the elder woman ; but
the younger was the seething volcano, only
with the outward calm and quiet of proud
control — none within — fitted to battle with
the stern world and a weight of trouble
that would have simply laid Eose in her
grave. She could not realise, understand,

such a base nature as was presented to her
in that story of Leicester Albany, though
she believed it as a fact, because the wife
stood a living witness before her, but practically
great wickedness was a myth to her
comprehensiveness ; she had borne the sorrow
that had come to her — and who is free?
with patient resignation ; the other her
deadly wrongs with proud, stern endurance.

So, naturally, the more restful, calmer
nature was soothing to the passionate,
troubled soul of the other, and there it
was the tie grew closer day by day.

'i'm so very glad you like Sister Eose
so much, Gabrielle," Douglas said one day,
as she sat not far from him at his secretaire
writing.

Her pen had stopped, or he had not
spoken. She looked up with the bright
smile that came readily at his voice.

She is so good," she said, " and I never
had a woman's friendship before."

"You would not easily pass the bounds

of society acquaintance," remarked Glen-luna
; " you are proud and reserved."

Gabrielle paused a moment, and then
said quietly, —

It has been my fault, if fault it is,
to stand alone. I never made one friend
amongst the girls at that miserable school.
I was only just sixteen when I fled from
them and married ; then I was in the
whirl of the gayest foreign society, and,
amongst the women I met more intimately,
there was none I cared for beyond
mere liking. There was not one amongst
us, I know, one quarter as good as Eose
Neville."

Except yourself," said Douglas quickly,
almost impetuously.

Gabrielle Albany shook her head.

No, I was only a girl, only mortal
woman, not an angel or saint to walk
unscathed in the flames. The fire burned
me — certainly embittered, seared me —
you know that as well as I do."

You shall not force me to abandon
my colours, Gabrielle. Perhaps I do know
that, but no one can knock about, or be
knocked about, in the world and be as
unscathed — if a bitter life experience, and
hardly bought worldly knowledge is necessarily
being' 'scathed' — as those of a quieter
mould both in nature and life. I declare,"
he said, breaking into a half laugh, "if
you are always going to compare yourself
with Sister Rose, to your own detraction,
I shall be compelled to hate her."

Then, you see, I should hate you,
sir."

I am not the least bit afraid that you
would even try," said he, with all the
contented impudence of security.

I will tell you what, monsieur, I spoil
you too much, and indulge you in your
own way."

"I don't think I get that much from
you, dear tyrant."

Quite as much as is good for you,

especially when you look so very wicked,
as you do now."

*' Do I ? Did not your new riding-habit
come down from town last night ?
The saddle I ordered has, I know — "

"Yes."

Then, by the saints, I will at last
have the pleasure of seeing you enjoy a
ride again ! " exclaimed Douglas. " Please
do ring the bell, quick, dear Gabrielle,
and we'll have out the open carriage and
Hassan."

He saw her eyes sparkle as she obeyed,
but, while he gave his orders to the servant
who appeared, she finished her letter,
closed it, and addressed it to Lady Glen-luna,
who had, in an effusive epistle,
begged for news of her ** darling boy."
This happened to exactly suit her clever
antagonist, and in a reply containing more
easy, graceful phrases than information —
for the gifted writer could be either as
verbose and involved as Mr Gladstone, or

as terse as Latin, according to her will —
she managed, while speaking of Douglas's
health and the coming autumn, to conveyed
Adeline the decided impression that to
bring down guests would be both distasteful
and by no means the thing for
her charge ; all this, without even naming
Dr Neville, or committing herself, couched
in a cloud of flowing words, out of which
Adeline would read — blinded, as Gabrielle
well reckoned, by her own evil wishes and
bent — that society would be bad for the
chance of Douglas's improvement, and dear,
generous Sir Arthur, read just the other
way. The letter was a masterpiece of
diplomatic policy.

She was not long in dressing, and perhaps
no costume could have so perfectly
set off her superb and picturesque beauty
as the close-fitting habit and graceful
cavalier hat. Douglas's own beautiful eyes
gazed on her without any attempt to
disguise his admiration.

Ma foi' said he, " Hassan's beauty
will be well matched ! — you look simply
superb — if you will forgive me for such
an open compliment ; you know I told
you it was second nature, and I could
not help saying pretty things. I'm incorrigible."


I am afraid you are." She wheeled
the chair up to the couch. 'rare you
ready, for Harford is at the lift, and the
carriage at the door ; lean on me."

I don't think I shall ever reconcile
myself to making a leaning-post of such
a slight thing as you," said Glen-Luna ;
but you will scold me, I know, if I call
Harford, so — "

He raised himself, laid one hand firmly,
though not heavily, on her shoulder, and
so, standing erect for one second, stepped
into the chair, which Mrs Albany at once
wheeled out into the corridor and into the
lift, descending with him herself as usual.
At the terrace steps stood the elegant open

carriage, in charge of Marston, while another
groom held Harford's horse and his master's
magnificent Arab, who testified his instant
recognition of Douglas, the moment he
appeared, by a delighted whinny and
eao-er start forward for the accustomed
caress.

"Dear old Hassan," said Douglas, as the
beautiful animal gently pushed his nose
into his hand and against his shoulder,
"you must be a jewel to-day, for you
have to carry a lady. Oh ! you know
her again ! Of course you do. Marston,
has he been out this morning ? "

"Yes, sir; but still I think that Mrs
Albany will have to give him a good
stretch."

Harford now assisted his master into the
carriage, and then turned to mount his
mistress, as he considered and called Gabrielle.
It was almost amusing to see the
absolute ease with which the powerful man
just put his two hands on her waist and

swung her into the saddle. Douglas fairly
laughed as the courier mounted.

Harford makes no more of your weight,
Mrs Albany, than if you were a kitten.
Would you mind if we go over to Lang-bourne,
to the old farrier, and see if my
other four-footed favourite is ready to come
home ? I want to introduce you to Angus."

I should like it very much," answered
Gabrielle. *let go Hassan's head, please,
James."

The noble, wild-spirited Arab, who had
been impatiently tossing his handsome head
and performing a dance of his own invention,
sprang forwards with a bound, which
the rider's strong hand instantly checked,
and reined him back to the side of the
carriage, that she might talk to Douglas.

"hassan cannot have his way yet," he
said, " though, like the rest of us, he likes
to get it when he can. I wonder why
everything that has life is fond of following
its own sweet will, and foi de mon die ! "

said he, vigorously. " How detestable it is
to have one's own will seriously crossed ! "

*'I don't think yours has had much of
that," said Gabrielle, with a quizzical glance
that made him laugh.

There ! Gro and race off your wickedness
and Hassan's wildness over that splendid
upland. I want to see you to advantage."

V raiment ! Off then, dear Hassan !"

Horse and rider were off over the turf at
a speed which must have unseated any buta
very perfect rider.

Douglas watched him intently, and a
cloud passed over the bright beauty of his
face — a passionate sweep of bitterest agony,
the maddening feeling with which the young,
strong eagle, chained to the beetling rock,
might watch the circling flight of his free
brethren.

He leaned back, setting the small, white
teeth, clenching the chiselled hands for a
moment ; but, ah ! me — was that all ? Was
there no other deeper, if unacknowledged.

pain in the depth of that wild heart, as she
came back to him, with slightly flushed
cheeks and sparkling eyes, so dazzling in
her glorious beauty and youth that he
almost held his breath before he spoke,
though, in her mere presence, the cloud
passed.

You look ripe for another helter-skelter
race," he said. "Go off again. Nay ! you
shall not stop for me ; your pleasure is
mine ! "

"And mine, just now," she answered
brightly, "is to ride here and talk to you,
and perhaps, if your canine pet is ready to
return with us, I'll ride a race with him for
your edification. Is Langbourne far?"

Three miles from Doring, down
river."

We shall not be long, then ?"

^' I wish it were three times as far," said
Glen-luna, with a wicked glance that
pointed the compliment. " Marston ! take
the road skirting the river banks, Mrs

Albany is as fond of the sight of water as
lam."

Marston touched his hat, and, after leaving
the park, turned to the river as desired,
but the distance proved to be only a half-hour's
drive, or else, as Douglas declared,
pleasant company made time take wings."

There is old Dick Hurdle's place, sir,"
said Marston, pulling up his horses before
the yard gate of an old, straggling, redbrick
cottage, which a huge board above
the porch announced to belong to " Richard
Hurdle, farrier."

He does not seem to be busy," said
Harford, throwing his bridle over the gatepost
and dismounting ; but they had been
both heard and seen, for a girl about twelve
ran out of the door into the back-yard, calling
out, " Grandfather ! come, quick, and
bring Angus ! Here's the young master,
and a beautiful lady on his own horse 1"

The next moment there was just a glimpse
of an old man round the corner, and of a

magnificent young collie dog of the largest
breed; then an absolute, almost human
shriek of joy, a sudden rush like an avalanche,
and the dog had dashed through the
open gates and leaped with one bound into
the carriage, his paws on his masters breast,
licking him all over, whining, quivering
with such frantic joy and excitement that it
was some time before even the beloved hand
and voice could at all calm the poor animal.

Now, Angus, dear old boy ! Yes, I
know well how you love your master, but
go and speak to Harford and make acquaintance
with your mistress."

Down leaped Angus, jumped delightedly
on Harford, pranced round his Arab friend,
and bounced up to Gabrielle, licking the
caressing hand she stretched to him, whining
joyfully at the sweet voice that addressed
him.

You noble beauty ! You dear boy !
Oh, Mr Douglas, can't we take him back
with us ? — his foot must be well ?"

It's quite well now, ma'am, bless ye,"
said old Dick, now coming forwards, " I
was a-going to send him home this evening,
sir, but, of course, now you'll take him yourself;
'specially as the young lady wants
him. How's the rest o' the family, sir?"

Thanks, Dick, they're all well, and my
father asked after you, in his last letter
wasn't it, Mrs Albany?"

Yes ; two days ago."

*' Lord bless him ! How good of him,
now, to think of old Dick, the farrier," said
the delighted old man, '' please, sir, to give
him my humblest duty, and tell him how
proud I am he should think of me."

I'll write on purpose to tell him, Dick,"
returned the young master, " good-bye."

And the cavalcade swept off, carriage,
riders, and the dog bounding on before ;
but presently, in a narrow lane, as the two
riders were alongside behind the carriage,
Harford bent towards Gabrielle, and said,
in a low voice, —

"That dog is as wise as we are, Mrs
Albany. He cannot bear a certain person,
coax him as she will ; Angus never will
speak to her."

I suppose not," said the other dryly,
he loves his master too well to be
deceived."

The courier glanced ahead, and then asked,
in the same undertone, —

"Do you think, madam, that she will
bring down guests ?" •

Mrs Albany looked up straight into his
face, with a soft little odd laugh.

I have written to her, Harford, and
made the game sure."

You are as clever as you are daring, Mrs
Albany ; you know how to tread both fearlessly
and warily on dangerous ground."

Ay, for his sake ; but oh for the poor,
brave heart that still was but human.

Heaven help her 1 There the ground
was crumbling away from under her, day
by day, and hour by hour.

VOL. II. B

"A DIAMOND WILL CUT Glass."

TA scribatur ut etiam literae in
ejus manus incident offend
non point" is a maxim, and,
broadly interpreted, a very wise maxim, of
the Jesuits ; and Gabrielle Albany had taken
its worldly wisdom to heart early enough
in her troubled life. She had only put it
into force once more in that letter which,
speeding its way through many hands,
reached its destination the next morning,
and was found on her plate by Lady Glen-luna
when she entered the breakfast-room,
the first one down.

"Mrs Albany's writing," she muttered

with a sort of little purr to herself,
like a cat who has, or thinks she has,
caught a mouse. " What a beautiful hand
it is, though more like a man's than a
woman's. Now, let us see what are her
news of her charge. Driving him out, I
suppose, with those blood-horses. Very
daring of her ; they might bolt and kill
them both."

She opened the letter and read it. How
thin and sinister her lips looked now, anA
how coldly steel grey her eyes under the
arched brows. She puckered them up with
a somewhat puzzled look, which, however,
gave place to a sleek, complacent smile
as she read the letter through again, this
time slowly, as if weighing every word ;
then sat with it in her hand cogitating.

"Yes!" she muttered. "I see exactly
what she really means and wants. She
is far too high-bred to wish or attempt
to dictate to me what is best for her
charge ; but still it is quite clear to me

that she wishes me, and me alone, to read
between the lines, and understand that
guests at Luna would fret Douglas very
seriously. Au meme temps, Madame Gabrielle,
you have been a beetle too clever,
for your hint is so delicately veiled, the
whole so involved, that anyone might perfectly
well understand it quite the other
way (as I shall certainly choose to door
be in a fog as to what you do mean.
Chere madame, you are already — ha ! ha !
so deeply anxious for his interests and
fancies that you are too clever by half.
/ see fast enough ; but I can and shall
make of this letter what I like, so that
you wont suspect me more than you do
now. I'll fill the house with guests, Lees
and all, if Arthur likes. I'm not afraid
of Hyacinth one bit now ; she will never
be able to rival la magnifique Albany."
To whose clever wire-pulling she was so
completely and blindly dancing.

My lady ! my lady ! If you wish to

succeed in outdoing Gabrielle Albany, you
will have to do it by some coup-de-main !
Outwit her you never will ; for she, at
least, knows where the serpent is, if she
cannot always foresee its next blow. But
you, in blind serenity, deem you have a
dupe, where you have the most suspicious,
most wary, and relentless of antagonists.
Which, then, is treading on the most dangerous
ground — you, or the noble-hearted
woman whom, with such ruthless, calculating
cruelty to both of them, you have
flung at Douglas Glen-Luna's feet ?

Steps and voices outside the door, and
Sir Arthur and Jessie came in together.

Letters, my dear ? " said the baronet.
Is that from Douglas ? Ah ! no. I see
it is Mrs Albany's writing ; but I suppose
it is all about him."

Yes, dear. I asked her to let me
know how they got on, and what they
did to pass the time. Bead it, both of
you, and tell me your impression. Mine

is that she fancies it is rather a mistake
of us to yield to the dear boy's natural
shrinking from having guests down."

Sir Arthur read the letter. Jessie peeping
over his shoulder, while Lady Glen-Luna
rang for breakfast.

Well, what think you of it, Arthur ? "
she said, in her pretty, bright way, "if it
won't harm him,"

The letter gives me that impression
entirely, my dear, as much as it says anything,
and, of course, last year he was still
too ill to bear anything."

Oh, papa ! " exclaimed Jessie, eagerly,
I'm sure it can't hurt him now if we had
fifty guests ! It wouldn't interfere with
him. He's got all the west wing and Mrs
Albany all to himself ! What more can
he want ? "

Hush ! my love," said her mother, reprovingly,
"it is not what he wants, for he
is too unselfish to * want ' anything himself,
but what is best for him ; we must take care

of him. It is a load of anxiety off my mind
that we have providentially secured such a
devoted attendant as dear Mrs Albany."

You see this woman was too clever to
show her darkest cards, even to the daughter
for whom she schemed.

Sir Arthur, tapping an egg, smiled and
asked, —

Whom, then, you soft-hearted little
woman, did you think of asking down ? "

Well, dear, I had hardly thought of it
yet ; but, of course, I know, for instance,
you would like your old friend's widow and
daughter, the Lees, asked, and some sportsmen
— Sir George Saltoun and his son, wife,
and daughter, and, well, I should like to
ask Mr Brandon, too, as some slight
return for really saving darling Jessie's
life."

Capital I " exclaimed Sir Arthur ; ** he's
a most agreeable man, and would enjoy the
shooting immensely. But then, my dear,
it seems to me that you will have an overbalance

of one sex. You'll want more
young ladies."

Adeline laughed, and began tallying off
on her fingers as merrily as a girl.

I don't think so. We shall have, then,
Percy Eosslyn, young Saltoun, and Clifford
Brandon. Against that we have Jessie here,
Hyacinth Lee, and Julia Saltoun, the elders
making up the party."

And a very nice party, too ; only Die,
we must try and get handsome Mrs Albany
to ' show' a little you know."

Oh, my dear," returned the little lady,
with a good-natured laugh, " we shall not
get her to desert Douglas, depend upon it !
And he certainly won't leave the west wing,
or allow it to be invaded."

In the latter she was right enough ; in
the former assertion she was doomed to
disappointment and vexation of spirit.

But lest some letter should arrive to
change Sir Arthur's amenable reading of
the one received, my lady determined to

put the matter beyond recall that same day
by securing the proposed guests, especially
Clifford Brandon, who she saw was entirely
eris with Jessie, and to whom, as he was
rich (that was beyond doubt), well born,
and the most charming creature, she had no
objection if Jessie liked him.

Certainly," she mused, as she dressed
for her calls, " I should have preferred a
title, and perhaps a younger man, but really
there are just now no titles and money
together that T could secure for her, and if —
if — I — fail," she was drawing on her lemon
kids now, '' I do not want her to flirt through
another season or two ; men get tired of a girl
then ; she is passe, I think she can hold her
own against Hyacinth Lee ; besides, though
she can flirt, she is, I'm certain, in love with
Douglas, or why didn't she accept other
offers ? And then, come worse to worse, I
could I think, pit Mrs Leicester Albany
against her. Heaven ! If that woman was
only unmarried, how dangerous she would

be. But you see" — she was apparently
addressing this salve to her own conscience
if she had such an inconvenient article —
I was forced to some such step, for I could
not have again avoided the Lees being asked,
and the girl would probably have won
Douglas. Now of course, there is no fear.
Certainly in Gabrielle Albany my good fortune
has played me her trump card."

And down to the carriage tripped that
sweet little Lady Glen-Luna." What a
masque we move in !

Ill deeds will rise,
Though all the world o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.

Glass is very hard and sharp, but we all
know that a diamond will cut it.

HYDRA.

'OW, really, my dear Mrs Orde,
do just look, upon my word !
and they've stopped again at
those Nevilless' ! "

Tableau ! Mrs Winstanley and Mrs Doctor
Orde staring from the former's window
opposite Cedar Lodge, on the scandalous
sight presented one day by the stopping of
Douglas Glen-Luna's elegant open carriage,
with himself in it, Gabrielle mounted on
the beautiful Arab, who certainly put his
daring rider's strength and skill to the test
sometimes ; and the noble collie, Angus, leaping
in high spirits from one to the other.

'* I believe she is just an artful, designing
widow, after all," added Mrs Winstanley,
and has thoroughly deceived that sweet,
innocent Lady Glen-Luna."

Widow, indeed, my dear ! " said Mrs
Orde, who never forgave Mrs Albany for
sending for the London physician instead
of her husband. " I really wonder if she
ever was anybody's wife at all, to begin
with. Of course, she knows she's very
handsome and looks superb on that Arab,
which nobody ever rode but him before site
must needs choose to treat his favourite
horses as if they were her own — ugh ! I
hate those fast, impudent foreign women.
I think Lady Glen-Luna must be mad to
have her at all, and those Nevilless must
be miry queer people" — these ladies dealt
largely in italics — " to be so intimate already;
just listen now, she's actually calling to Miss
Neville in the garden."

A terrible crime certainly, and only made
the scandal worse for that beautiful woman

to wheel her impatient, restless horse, close
to the pretty gate, and call, in her rich,
mellow tones, —

Sister Eose ! here we are, leave your
pets a minute."

For there was sweet Sister Eose in her
garden, with a broad brown " basin " hat,
and large apron on, and gardening gloves,
and big scissors in her hand, cutting, trimming,
petting her flowers, as if they were
alive. At the sound of wheels, and that
voice, she lifted herself erect, threw down
scissors and pruning-knife, and, with her
sunny smile, came quickly down to the gate,
pulling off her moulded gloves.

How good of you both to stop," she said,
clasping Mrs Albany's hand, and nodded
brightly to Douglas — "You too, Angus,"
as the collie jumped foresaw upon the gate,
eager for a caress. " Where have you taken
her to-day, Mr Douglas ? "

Faith, I can hardly tell you Sister Eose,
or Gabrielle either, for Marston or Harford

are generally our guides, but we have been
some fifteen or twenty miles, I believe, eli,
Harford?"

Quite that, sir."

And yesterday," added Glen-Luna, " we
spent the day from nine o'clock till ten at
nio-ht on the steam-launch ; we ran down to
Cliveden, which Gabrielle had never seen."

That was delightful," said Eose ; '' you
are taking the best advantage of the fine
weather."

Of which," laughed Douglas, " we get
such scanty allowance in England."

Poor England ! " Sister Eose shook her
head; " you and Gabrielle are always abusing
the climate."

It only deserves abuse," said he, with
a wicked, defiant glance ; '* do you know we,
Gabrielle and I, call the sun ' the English
stranger ? ' "

You are a very bad, ungrateful fellow
then, and she's as bad," retorted Sister Eose,
merrily ; " you are both spoiled by being so

much abroad. Have you heard from town
since you wrote, my dear ? " this to Mrs
Albany.

Only a few lines, but I daresay we shall
have a letter soon, this evening, perhaps.
So, Hassan, be quiet ; you are so restless,
boy."

Like his master," muttered Douglas,
under his moustache ; but she heard him,
and the shadow that lay in her dark eyes
deepened. His suffering stabbed her. She
reined Hassan in closer as Miss Neville
spoke.

"I suppose, Mr Douglas, when your people
return home, they will bring a houseful of
guests with them, or after them ? "

Glen - Luna shivered, but answered
quietly, —

*' Perhaps they will, and I suppose that I
shall have to obey my tyrant there. Shall
wee see you again soon. Sister Rose ? "

I think you must be tired of me — "

Of you ! Oh, no ; how dare you hint

such a thing ? You don't deserve any music
for a month ; so actio till you come."

So they took leave and were off again,
the Arab tossing his head and bounding forwards
in a manner that did not look as if
twenty miles had given him much taste for
his stable, or any idea that his rider's firm
hand might possibly be tired.

There they go," commented Mrs Winstanley
; '* dear me ! How can people be so
blind ? I dare say he's a perfect slave to
every caprice. / don't know what the world
is coming to, I'm sure."

I hope he didn't see us, my dear ? " said
Mrs Orde, in some alarm ; ** I saw him, as
they drove off, glance this way, and then
evidently say something to that creature,
for she laughed. Ugh ! I don't believe the
woman cares one stone what all During may
say of her. But her proud scorn will have
a fall yet, take my word for it, my dear."

How very Christian we do feel over the
contemplated judgment so richly deserved

by some especially inimical sinner. I am
quite certain that if you could tiave played
the rule of Le Diable Boiteu that night, you
would have found Mrs Doctor Orde in a
state of fierce righteousness reading the 69th
Psalm, and thanking God that she was not
as other men, or women !

I really wonder if the ancients symbolised
scandal by the story of the Hydra. That
masterly thinker. Lord Bacon, finds a profound
and subtle depth of meaning in most
of the classic creeds and legends, in which
the majority of minds read only a graceful
fable, or at most a surface allegory. Nor,
I humbly submit, is it fair to those same
wondrous classics of Greece and Rome, who
are, after all, the corner-stone of civilisation,
to say that Bacon's great intellect infused
its own wisdom into the ancient lore, and
gave to it a profundity of which its authors
never dreamed ; rather is it that it takes a
great mind to thoroughly read a great mind.

*two of the Hydra's heads up there,"

VOL. II. C

Douglas had said in French, " gossiping our
heads off, I'll swear."

At which Albany's wife laughed in scornful
amusement and haughty disdain. She
had felt the sharp sting of the scorpion
itself, and this country town snapping was
a mere shadow of the reality. She knew
well that "they talked her head off," for
scandal reaches us like the air we breathe.
Did not the very corn spring up and wave
out the news that King Midas had got ass's
ears ? It might distress Rose Neville to
know how those village coteries overhauled
the doings and inmates of the Hall, but the
one it most touched cared nothing. She
had higher, dearer interests at heart, and
nothing could shake her hold of the standard
she had grasped in her firm right hand.

That evening's post brought several letters,
two of which were for Gabrielle, — one from
Lady Glen-luna, the other she saw was
from good little Mrs May.

Dear Mrs Albany and Douglas," began

Adeline, '' I send you a joint epistle, with
full account of our doings and plans. I
suppose you will spoil my dear boy by
reading this aloud while he lies in an atmosphere
of flowers."

Ma foi, not so far out, is she 1 " said
Douglas, lazily, one arm under his head ashe
lay at full length, after so long a drive ina
more upright position ; " it is not every
fellow who has the luck to have such a
reader either, for

Like music on the waters
Is thy sweet voice to me.' "

I wonder if you. Sir Knight, could speak
twenty sentences to a woman without tripping
ofl" a flowery compliment ? "

Of course not," said he, coolly, opening
his great grey eyes wide with the most
wicked look. " I warned you, my dear
Gabrielle, that I should have to make all
the pretty speeches to you, as there was no
one else, and you gave me leave — "

Tres hen, monsieur, but you will have
others soon to divide favours with me."

I don't want any others," he said, with
a quickness that made her smile, though a
faint colour had crossed her cheek.

"Do you know that you said that so
like a child who hurriedly asserts he is
quite well the moment mamma talks of
physic, that I cannot help laughing."

Laugh away, sweet Gabrielle, but it is
physic, for all your sweet coaxing me that
it is only le premier pas qui route. Still,
if you bade me take poison I should do it."

Vraiment ! I shall not, I hope, put
your knightly chivalry to quite such a
severe test. Perhaps you will listen now
with due respect to your belle-mere's
epistle."

Don't be sarcastic, fair dame. I am
all attention. I suppose that little arrant
coquette of a sister of mine is flirting
no end with her new beau, Clifford
Brandon."

I dare say," was the serene reply. "I
see his name." Which came in pretty soon
amongst the guests whom the writer said
she had asked for the autumn. "Also
Lady Constance Lee, and lovely Hyacinth,
whom you, dear boy, used to admire so
much."

"" Of course I did," remarked the " dear
boy," playing with his soft moustache, and
his glance still resting, under the long,
heavy lashes, on the beautiful face before
him. "She was lovely enough to be
admired, and charming enough to flirt
with. We were the best of friends, but
I don't care to see her here now."

^' Fie donc Fie done, mon ami!" said
voice and uplifted finger ; but he laughed.

I don't, scold me as you like."

** You know you deserve it, just for your
wicked look of rebellion. Listen to the
rest of the letter, sir, if you please."

I'm all attention, madame."

So he was. The remainder had a good

deal to say about Mr Brandon, in praise.
He was handsome, very well born and
connected, and rich — "

sand," supplemented the incorrigible
Douglas, " the belle-mere thinks he's quite
a good ][>aTti for Jessie. I wonder who
or what on earth this Clifford Brandon
is ! " he said, with a slight change of
manner. *'I never heard such a name in
society. The Eosslyns should know certainly,
but, still — well, we shall see."

He moved restlessly, and Gabrielle said
quietly,—

'' You must not fret yourself about Jessie
or her possible suitor. Her mother surely
loves her at least, and will be careful."

*' She ought to ; I suppose it's all right."

Still he was disturbed, she saw, and
quietly putting Mrs May's letter into her
pocket, went to the piano to charm away
anxiety with Mendelssohn and Schumann.

M A R I U S.

HEN Gabrielle Albany was alone
in her room that night she
^M^^ opened Mrs May's letter, which
began by apologising for not having written
a month ago, when the man came, and then
went on to tell her in a very fairly-worded
detail about the visit of the stranger, not
omitting the final fillip, " that she believed
he was nothing better than Mrs Albany's
scamp of a husband." The little woman
described him, too, very tolerably, for a
person of her class ; for the uneducated
especially fail in the capability of description.
" He was handsome-like, very darkish

disposed, with only a thick moustache,
and tall, with figure according."

Gabrielle dropped the letter, and sat with
her head resting on her hands, dumb,
motionless, with a strange, dim sense of
darkness creeping over her, such as one
feels in a dream, which she could not at
first define, or lay hold of, or combat.

Why, in Heaven's name, did Leicester
want to know where she was ? Was the
foul lie he told Mrs May the beginning,
the foundation-stone, of a whole scheme ?
Did he mean to actually make a desperate
attempt to shake ofi" the marriage by the
aid of an appeal to law, which he must
know would be futile, or did he only want
to make sure she was well out of his
way — abroad, perhaps — before he attempted
to put into execution the plans she was sure
he had formed, and which she had warned
him she would foil, at whatever cost to herself?


To herself — but what if he found her out

here, and drove her away, made them believe
that she was a wife who had indeed
broken every vow, and flung honour and
womanhood from her. Ah me ! Why at the
thought does she draw such a sudden sharp
breath, and press both those slender hands
on her bosom ; will that still the wild throbs
of the poor passionate heart that has passed
so insidiously, so completely out of her
keeping or control ; or crush out such fierce
agony as even she in all her miserable life
has never known till now. She cannot,
does not even try to deceive herself, but
faces the bitter, terrible truth, as she has
done every other danger in her gloomy
path ; she has known it vaguely before this,
but still, like death, it comes suddenly after
all. She was only a woman, a passionate,
noble, loving woman, whose full immeasurable
power of love had never been touched
or reached till now ; till this Douglas, gifted
with every gift that wins, surrounded with
every circumstance that must perforce appeal

at once to her deepest, tenderest
sympathy ; thrown even more absolutely
lately on her care, dependent on her for
his hope of recovery, even for the safety
of his life she knew. She had been lessor
more, than human to resist the sweeping
tide that had set in with such terrible
force against her. Wring the white hands
in passionate, voiceless agony ; cover the
deathlike face in bitterest shame and woe,
for she knows now that, fight the cruel
battle outwardly as she may, her very
heart has betrayed her at last ; that she,
proud woman, who never loved before,
wedded wife, God help her ! loves Douglas
Glen Luna with all the force and deathless
faith of her strong impassioned soul. It is
too late to crush it under foot, she is single-handed,
weighted too cruelly in the self-conflict,
for there is not, cannot be, the
least moral power to aid her in such a
terrible marriage as that which binds her
to such a man as Leicester Albany, who had

sold her honour for gold, and held it lightly
indeed almost from the day he wedded hera
child scarcely sixteen. She cannot, will
not, fly the hourly misery in which there
lies too unconsciously such a dangerous,
wild happiness.

No," she mutters with stern self-sacrifice
; " come what may I will never leave
him as long as I am necessary. What
matters that I suffer ! I can dare all, bear
all, for thee, Douglas — my heart, my one
only love ! Oh my God ! is this sin ?
How could I help it ! how could I help
it ! Help me in this battle ! "

The poor heart's cry of more than mortal
agony ! this wild prayer of the pure, loyal
woman's very soul that shrank in terror
and horror from the mere shadow of sin
and dishonour.

Still self suppression, guard, control, the
watchwords of her troubled, tempest-tossed,
most sorrowful life, scarcely yet counting
twenty-five years, with all the dreary waste

of heart-broken years stretching away in
darkness before her, only the wrecks of
what should have been home and happiness
around her, like Marius amongst the
desolate ruins of Carthage ; yet still in all,
through all, this grand, high-souled woman
never dreamed of surrender to her own
heart, never, coward-like, asked for one
moment for death to end her misery, but
only prayed for strength to still struggle
against the tide, power to endure unto
the end in purity as untainted in heart
as in deed.

And surely, oh surely, we know that
such a cry God heareth ; such prayers
God answered.

OVER THEIR FIVE o'CLOCK.

WO fair girls lounging " at ease "
over their five o'clock, sipping
tea out of the tiniest, most
dainty pieces of Sevres that could be distinguished
by the name of cups at all, the
hat and gloves of one lying on a spider-like
chair near her ; the other, evidently
hostess, lazily balancing herself, chair and
all, as her glance went round the elegant
boudoir.

So Jessie," she said, " we are to be
amongst your autumn guests this year,
my mammy says ; how very jolly ! "
You are coming, then ; you have

accepted mamma's invitation ? " exclaimed
Jessie Glen-Luna.

"Accepted," repeated Hyacinth Lee, opening
wide lier very blue eyes, that had in
truth given her her name, "of course we have,
my dear. Who else are coming, Jessie ? "

Let me see, not such a very large party,
because mamma says it might be too much
for Douglas, though I don't suppose that he
and his own people will be seen beyond the
west wing."

Hyacinth stifled a sigh behind her handkerchief,
and repeated lazily, —

*' His own people."

Yes, of course ; he has everything exactly
as he likes. He has the west wing
entirely, and his own servants, and Harford
you remember his courier ? — and lately
his secretary, and of course always his own
carriages and horses."

And won't his secretary sometimes make
his appearance ? " asked Hyacinth, replenishing
her cup.

He's a she' cried Jessie, bursting into a
merry laugh — '' a married lady."

''- Oh " — Miss Hyacinth's eyes opened wide
" poor fellow ! is he consigned to the care
of some old frump who wears tight caps
and bonnets of the year 1 ? I'm certain he
couldn't endure such a creature about him."

Jessie nearly choked with laughter at the
absolute opposite this picture was to the
original, but it instantly popped into her
head that there might perhaps be some fun
got out of it, if she kept up the hoax Hyacinth
had in fact put upon herself, so she
said, still laughing, —

Well, I dare say he'd prefer a stylish,
handsome woman of four or five and twenty
as a companion and sort of nurse when he's
ill ; but still he and madame are capital
friends, bonnets and all included. If he
didn't like her, he could send her away."

But you said ' married,' " said Hyacinth,
a little puzzled by Jessie's manner ; "■ where
is this Madame Frump's husband ? "

Oh, she's separated, of course ; treated
her like a brute, and so she left him somewhere
in California and got a legal separation.
Mamma found the whole report of
the case in an old paper some while ago.
Then you'll see her, I dare say, when you
come. You asked who else ? " rattled Jessie,
afraid that her face would betray some joke
if she did not shelve off the dangerous
ground. " Well, first and foremost, the
Salton."

"All four?"

** Yes, they're all jolly ; and Fred Saltoun
is such a lady's man. Then there's Percy
Kosslyn."

Pretty dear," put in Hyacinth, her nose
in the air ; " dances well, though not within
twenty degrees of what your poor brother
used to do. Well, who else, dear ? "

Oh, why, Mr Brandon," returned Jessie,
with slightly heightened colour, and the true
coquette's little toss of the head.

Hyacinth's eyes twinkled.

*' Of course," said she, *' he'll be in the
seventh heaven. Really, it was quite a
romantic meeting. I'm so sick of being introduced
to people ! Aren't you, Jessie ? "

Jessie nodded. She liked handsome,
dashing Clifford Brandon to be considered
the captive of her bow and spear. Certainly
his attentions to her had been sufficiently
marked to entitle the little flirt to consider
him so. I am afraid she was too like her
mother to be much in love with anybody,
certainly not beyond a "limited liability"
sort of way that would not be very heartbreaking.


And then," she added, " there are some
capital people about, and even in Doring.
There is Douglas's physician who was called
in when the lift broke — Dr Neville, a London
man — and his sister."

Oh, oh," said Miss Hyacinth, significantly,
— " young, is she ? "

Only fifty, my dear. Oh, Douglas
couldn't flirt with her."

VOL. II. D

Hyacinth laughed.

I think my mammy is quite right," said
she ; " it's high time you and I got married
and settled down. I think you'll be the
first to set an example, my dear. I'll ask
Madame Frump's advice when I see
her."

Hem ! " said Jessie, sagely, " I don't
think she would advise people to marryat
all. Her own experience has been about
the worst I ever heard of. Why, her
wretch of a husband, actually in — California
sold her — gambled her away to a fellow,
and she shot him and escaped. We read
it in the old paper."

Horrible ! " exclaimed Hyacinth, almost
incredulous ; " but she must surely, then,
have been pretty when she was young % "

I suppose so," Jessie's lip gave again,
and she rose ; '* but anyhow, whichever
of us two marries first, the other must be
bridesmaid."

All right. Must you go ? Good-bye.

Don't give Clifford Brandon more than
three round dances to-night, now."

And so jesting, the two parted. Neither
cared especially for the other, but Jessie
wanted some one to take Saltoun off her
hands. Hyacinth, however, had her own
bit of fun in view.

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Dunois

THE FANCY AND THE REALITY.

S the florist tends and watches the
rarest, tenderest, most beautiful
of his flowers, so Chandos Neville
watched and tended his most precious
charge day by day, as the time glided by
and the end of July came near — watched
with an anxiety only surpassed by that
of the woman who loved Douglas Glen-luna.
Under their hands he progressed
steadily, if slowly, and with some fluctuations,
but clever Dr Neville had never in
his life been more right than when he
set such absolutely unmeasured store by
the tireless care and limitless influence of

the grand-hearted woman without whose
hourly and intimate mental as well as
physical co-operation, the physician still
openly said, his own work would have
been a very hopeless struggle against headwind
and strong tide. As it was, he now
affirmed with quiet confidence that not only
was his charge gaining strength and tha*"
vitality on which so much depended, but
he, the physician, was slowly and surely
mastering the very core of the actual injury
done. As to Harford, he told Mrs Albany
flat that his master was quite another being
since she had come.

Only," he added anxiously, and with
his characteristic respectful familiarity, '* we
shall have to be very careful that my lady
does not find that out, Mrs Albany, or she
will try to get rid of you."

Gabrielle Albany looked straight into the
man's eyes, and said quietly —

"I think, Harford, that that is beyond
her power now."

Harford had paused at the open door of
her sitting-room, near the middle table of
which she stood. He came right inside the
room, and said between his teeth, —

Pardon me, do you think you quite
know what a little devil she is ? "

I think I do, Harford."

Ay, Mrs Albany, but I mean — do you
know that she would use the weapons which
only such a woman can use against a
woman placed as you are here — weapons
from which even you might well shrink
and give way ? "

The blood flushed over her very brow
for a moment, knowing so well what he
meant ; it was the tribute sensitive womanhood
wrung from the noble strength that
could endure, suffer, dare all, all for
Douglas's sake ; but she laid her firm hand,
that scarcely looked as if it could give
such an iron grasp, on his arm, and said
slowly, —

'* I might, perhaps, shrink ; I am a

woman, but before Heaven I swear I will
never give way. If you knew all I have
gone through, all I have suffered and dared,
you would not fear my failing now for one
moment."

You are a noble woman, Mrs Albany."

There was dead silence for a minute,
then Harford said, with a deep-drawn
breath, —

So they are really coming down on
Thursday, Mrs Albany?"

Yes ; and the first of the guests on
Saturday, Lady Constance and Miss Lee."

Miss Lee — here ! " said the courier
quickly and suspiciously ; ** what can be
Lady Glen-Luna s motive ? She used to
be frightened to death that the master
would marry Miss Hyacinth Lee ; I know
she was. I saw through her fast enough,
and so did Mr Douglas. She thinks the
danger is past, I suppose, though there
never was any, I fancy. Mrs Albany,
when all these people come, do you and

Dr Neville mean the master to go down
amongst them actually, or — "

Yes, Harford, sometimes, drive with
them when there is a party going, be in the
salon in the evening, and so on."

But not without you," said Harford,
eagerly ; " not unless you are with him ? "

Gabrielle looked up and smiled.

No, I shall be with him — in his carriage
— in the room. One feels the moment
she is in the house again as if one must be
on guard at every point, and suspect her
every movement."

*' That's exactly my feeling, Mrs Albany.
I wish to Heaven we could take him
abroad."

Mrs Albany shook her head.

*'He is not strong enough to bear the
journey now. The inevitable fatigue and
jolting would be ruinous at present. In
another two months, or perhaps even less,
it might be possible, but not now."

Well, of course, madam, you and the

doctor know best, but I wish she would
take into her head to go abroad, only I
don't think Sir Arthur would 2:0 for long."

And with that wish Harford withdrew.

There was another very strong wish in
the man's heart which he could not utter.

On the Thursday evening the family came
down, and you may be sure that the Doring
coteries had plenty to gossip about over their
Friday five o'clock, how they all looked,
what they had done, whether they would
show " at the archery meeting, the cricket
match, the rifle contest at the new butts,
how Lady Glen-Luna had driven through
the town and looked as charming as ever,
and how, of course, that fast Mrs Albany
wouldn't be able to have it all quite so
much her own way, and those Nevilless
would find they couldn't either ; all of which
floated to the ears of " those Nevilless," and
highly amused them.

"Poor Mrs Albany's great offence," said
the doctor laughing, " appearing to be her

beauty and graceful aire de grande duchesses
and the fact that she drives Mr Glen-Luna's
own favourite horses, rides his own Arabian,
and comes to church in his own park phaeton
attended by his own groom. Ugh, the
spiteful toads ! it's nothing but jealousy "
to which Sister Rose fully agreed — of
course, if Gabrielle were to care or fret
herself about these stupid people she had
better throw up her situation at once, because
the very essence of it was to be the
constant attendant and companion of Sir
Arthur s son.

The Lees arrived in time for dinner on
the Saturday, and Jessie, who, as there was
no one yet to flirt with, thought she might
as well see the end of her joke, begged her
mother — whom she had primed — to send
and ask Mrs Albany to come down that
evening. But Miss Jessie was doomed not
to see the result of her joke so soon, for Mrs
Albany sent back her compliments, but she
was sorry to say Mr Glen-Luna was not

quite so well this evening, and she could
not leave him. A message and fact of
which Mr Glen-Luna himself was happily
ignorant, and which Lady Glen-Luna received
from Harford with a sigh, and sadly
breathed, —

My poor boy " — that made the courier
retire biting his lip, half angry, half amused,
at the hypocrisy that was to him so thin a
veil.

The little party in the drawing-room
broke up early, for Lady Constance and
Hyacinth were both tired and were glad to
retire to their rooms. To inquiries about
Douglas, Adeline only said he was much the
same, never had seen any one since his
accident, and she did not think he would
be induced to do so now ; certainly not yet
awhile.

Lovely Hyacinth Lee was the first in the
breakfast-room the next morning, and, as
no one was there, and the open French
window and beautiful grounds without

looked too tempting to be resisted, the girl
threw up her pretty head to catch the
breeze, laden with the sweet scent of flowers
and river air, and ran out over the lawn
towards the belt of rich wooding that lay
beyond, till suddenly she was brought up
all standing, with a little half-startled cry,
by an immense collie dog bouncing excitedly
about her, just, of course, because she was
dancing along.

Angus, you bad dog ! " called a rich
voice, as clear as a bell, " how dare you be
so rude, sir ? Come back."

And as Angus bounded off, out from the
trees towards the astonished and admiring
girl came the tall, slight form of the most
beautiful woman she had ever seen.

I hope the dog has not done more
than startle you ? " she said, courteously,
as she reached Hyacinth.

Oh no, thank you, madame." Hyacinth
was wondering who this handsome foreigner
could be. She had heard of no other guest

yet. " I am fond of dogs ; and what a
beauty he is."

"Is he not, Miss Lee ? — pardon — I
guessed who you were, and he is as wild asa
March hare ; only being three years old
too, I think Angus is wonderfully good;
we have just come back from the early
Celebration at St Agnes's Church, and he
lies quietly down in the porch till I come
out."

What a darling dog ; Angus you call
him — for I suppose you are his mistress ? "

"Well, not exactly; he belongs to Mr
Glen-Luna," returned Gabrielle.

Does he ? Isn't it dreadful that there
does not seem any chance of his ever getting
well? His life must be so miserable, so
dull, so crushed," said Hyacinth, with tears
in her eyes, " and Jessie says, I understood
her so in town, that his companion is an
old frump, who — ah, you are laughing at
me!"

"A thousand pardons, Miss Lee, I did

not know his secretary, or nurse, or whatever
they call her, was elderly."

Oh, yes, I assure you Jessie Glen-Luna
said so — that she was an old frump who
wore bonnets of the year 1."

"Well, of course Miss Glen-Luna must
know best," said Mrs Albany, demurely,
seeing exactly what the joke was, and enjoying
it, " but I should hardly think * an
old frump' a very lively or welcome companion
for a young fellow of thirty."

No, certainly not, and especially such a
cavalier fellow as Douglas Glen-Luna always
was," said Hyacinth ; "I suppose you have
never seen him, as he sees no one ?."

"I have seen him very often, though,
Miss Lee, and his secretary too."

Have you, madame ? " Hyacinth's blue
eyes opened wide. " Then I was right, for
I thought you were a guest, though Jessie
said we were the first."

I have been stopping here some time
now," answered Gabrielle, with. Hyacinth

thought, a rather odd smile; *you may,
perhaps, have heard my name — Albany —
Mrs Leicester Albany."

**I never have, Mrs Albany, but I am
most happy to have met you in a manner
out of the beaten track. Here comes Jessie !
Too late for introducing ! Why, Jessie,
what are you laughing about so much ? "

For Jessie broke out irresistibly as she
saw the two together, and now Mrs Albany
was laughing too.

Too late, Jessie ! Miss Lee and I have
already made acquaintance. Au revoir !
Your breakfast bell is ringing, and I must
go to your brother, who is waiting my return.
Come, Angus."

But — I don't quite — go to — oh, what a
shame, Jessie ! " exclaimed Hyacinth, with
a peal of laughter. " Mrs Albany, you
are the secretary after all ! "

Mrs Albany swept a low bow.

The old frump ! Miss Lee toute
a vous*

Oh, it was too bad of you, Jessie, to tell
me that Mrs Albany — "

I didn't tell you, my dear ; you suggested
it, and I only agreed," interrupted
Jessie, delighted. "Mrs Albany answers
the description exactly, only in an inverse
ratio. Yours was the fancy — this lady the
reality."

Pray don't distress yourself. Miss Lee,"
said Gabrielle, " I saw the joke directly, and
have enjoyed it. May I tell Mr Glen-Luna ?
It will amuse him ! "

"Tell him; yes, do. I should think it
would amuse him, indeed ! Shall I not see
you again to-day, Mrs. Albany ? "

I do not think so, Miss Lee. I live, you
see, in the west wing, and I seldom leave
Mr Glen-Luna very long alone. Good-bye
for the present."

She shook hands, whistled to Angus, and
turned off to the west wing.

Frump, indeed ! " said Hyacinth ; *' she
is hardly five-and-twenty, and a woman for

the men to rave about. Good heaven I Her
husband must have been a perfect fiend to
have treated her as you said."

Perhaps she was in fault," returned
Jessie. " She's got a will of her own. She
was none of the meek wives, I'm certain."

So much the better," retorted Hyacinth,
tossing her head with proper truculent ;
if women had compiled the marriage service,
I'm thinking the ' obey ' business would
run the other way. / wouldn't 'obey,'
forsooth ! "

If you were in love, dear, you would
think it a pleasure," said Jessie, sentimentally.


Bosh ! " returned Miss Hyacinth, in high
scorn ; " don't be silly, Jessie ; you may
think men angels, if you like. I don't, and
I don't suspect Mrs Albany does."

It would be strange indeed if she had —
Leicester Albany's wife.

VOL. II.

LEICESTER ALBANY EN VOYAGE — NOT ALL
SMOOTH SAILING.

leicester ALBANY was certainly
a very clever man, and
a man of very considerable
resources ; but it is questionable whether
he would have deliberately gone, knowing
she was there, into the very house in
which his wife was. For, although he
possessed that almost unlimited brazen
impudence and self-reliant conceit which
generally characterises men of his stamp,
he would hardly have walked with open
eyes on to such dangerous ground ; for
he feared his wife, despite his defiance —

feared her stern threat that she would
foil him. Still, after what she herself
declared, how could she possibly prove
his identity with her husband when she
had destroyed every likeness, every writing,
every vestige that could remind her of
him ? Indeed, if she made the charge at
any time, he could give to her claim a
very ugly colouring indeed, which would
not hurt him, while it would be ruinous
to her wherever she was. So he flung,
care to the winds, and made up his mind,
as he said, to "go in and win."

Jessie was de facto an heiress, for the
frail life of a crippled brother was not
much of an obstacle ; and besides, he
argued, he could not be too particular as
to his selection ; quite ready-made heiresses
were not as plentiful as roses in June, and
papas and mammas, or guardians of such
rich ripe fruit, had an uncomfortable way
of inquiring very closely into the antecedents
and means of suitors, which scrutiny

the soi-disant Mr Clifford Brandon scarcely
cared to court. Not that his present identity
was absolutely taken up haphazard.
Oh dear, no ; he was far too wideawake
a gentleman for that. He had, in his
adventurer's life, before his marriage, come
across, in America, a man of his own age,
bearing the name of Clifford Brandon, and
belonging distantly to a good family. This
young fellow had died in an out-west city,
and his people, if even they had ever
seen him, certainly neither knew nor cared
whether he were living or dead. So that
now, if his assumed antecedents were challenged,
he could claim or disclaim, as best
suited him, connection with the Brandons
of — shire.

Another reason for selecting Jessie as
the heiress for his scheme was the footing
his good luck had given him, and that
he soon saw that she was one of those
sentimental flirts who, if he could get her
to fall in love with him (not a hard task

either, as her falling in love went), he
could persuade her to elope, perhaps, if
manna frowned when it came to the proposal,
or if his own wronged and haughty
wife " crossed his tracks," as he expressed
it. And then Jessie was really such a
deuced pretty, charming little thing, that
it was no such bad prospect. Few men
knew better than Leicester Albany exactly
how to play his cards with the ordinary
run of women, especially flirts. It was
such a woman as Gabrielle who puzzled —
posed — him. To Jessie he had, while in
town, paid just that happy mean of attention
which, while suffering her to feel that
he was eris, was not sufficiently marked
overtly to attract undue notice from the
society in which they moved, though
club and five o'clock gossip credited Cliff".
Brandon with being a very decided admirer
of "little Jessie Glen-Luna," and no one
was surprised when it was understood that
he joined the circle at Luna Park the

Monday after the family had returned
there.

The statement with which he had come
into the magic ring called " society " was
strictly true. An aunt had left him a
fortune, but it belonged to the past — not
the present. He had come into a large
fortune in money from this aunt at twenty-one
; by the time he was thirty, when he
saw, fell in love with, and married young
Gabrielle Orville, he had squandered fully
half the fortune, and the rest followed in
the next seven years. He best knew how
he had got the money on which he was
now playing so bold a game to reinstate
himself again, but that he had obtained
a good supply, and had so managed that
his resources would stand a fair investigation
from papa Glen-Luna, and even the
farce of a settlement is certain. It is
astonishing what we can do if we only
completely throw aside that tiresome " obstructive
" conscience. And certainly our

very worthy friend had none of that. At
the core, the man was a heartless roue,
under the outward gloss, a gladiator capable
of almost any deed which passion or interest
made expedient. Is it a wonder that
to such a man his hapless wife had declared
that she would not, even if she could, set
him free to wreck another life as he had hers.

He was to have gone down in time for
luncheon, but somehow missed it — men are
sometimes unpunctual as well as women —
and so he lunched at the station, and went
down by the next train, that reached Doring
about five.

No carriage from the Hall was waiting,
but when the porter saw the name and
address on the luggage he informed its
owner that a groom with the dogcart had
been to meet the other train, and had left a
message that he should meet this one.

He's only a little mistook the time, sir,"
added the man, " and if you'd please wait
a few minutes he can't be long."

Thanks," answered Albany, " but, as it
is such a lovely day and country, I will
walk on, and the dogcart can transport my
portmanteau."

The porter directed him to the park, and
he left the station at an easy pace, lighting
a cigar as he went.

He soon found his way into the broad
Doring road, from which he got a glimpse
of the river, and on the other side, through
and over the hedges, lovely bits of that
extremity of Luna Park ; not that Leicester
Albany appreciated either, though he often
affected an admiration for scenery and trees.

He had walked some little way, and had
begun to wonder where the road turning off
to the gates was, when he heard the roll of
unmistakably — carriage wheels and tramp
of horses' feet coming on behind, and, turning,
saw a cloud of dust.

Confound it," muttered Albany, "what
an awful dust ! "

He stepped on to the grass, and drew

right back against the hedge to windward
of the cloud, and the next minute an
immense collie dog dashed past him, then
an elegant low phaeton, drawn by the most
magnificent pair of chesnut horses, all silver
harnessed, that he had ever seen ; driven,
too, by a lady who sat beside a young man,
half reclining amongst a pile of crimson
cushions. His face was turned the other
way, and, if not, Albany would not have
seen it, for his gaze, startled but exultant,
was riveted on the driver, as the equipage,
followed by a mounted attendant, swept
past.

*• By Heaven ! have I caught you out
at last, my immaculate wife ! " he muttered,
stepping out to watch the retreating carriage
— ''ma parole! — kept in style, too,
while you're about it. Down here, somehow,
too. Jove ! that's dangerous ; I must
find you out and see what's to be done ; ha !
my scornful wife, where is your standpoint
now ? "

He walked on again, and in a few minutes
perceived an old hedger, just shouldering
his tools to leave his work. The old man
touched his hat to the gentleman, as is the
courteous fashion of the peasantry, and
Albany stopped.

'* Good evening, friend. Did you see
that carriage pass just now ? "

Lord sir, yes," answered the old man,
in a slightly amused tone ; " they're out
driving and riding. Madame rides near
every day. Them's the master's pet blood
horses, sir, and young madame rides his
own Arabian, which is as handsome as herself,
bless her."

A fierce thrill of jealousy shot through
the man's evil soul. He had flung away
the flower himself, but he could not bear
to think that another had gathered it.

Indeed ! " he said, with an irrepressible
sneer, " and who or what is madame and
the master ? "

The truth never struck him; so had he

got it into his head that Sir Arthur's son
was a miserable cripple.

The old man stared. To him it argued
extraordinary ignorance not to know who
the master " was.

Why, sir, the master is the master —
Mr Douglas Glen-Luna — and madame is
Mrs Albany, his secretary. My lady and
all trusts everything to her. Ah ! she is
the sweetest young lady, sir."

The devil ! " came between Leicester's
set teeth, and for a moment trees, and road,
and sky above seemed as a mist before his
eyes, so completely was he taken aback by
the discovery that the very last woman he
would have had near him now was actually
under the same roof to which he was going ;
his ready wit and thought were completely
staggered, and it was a minute before the
livid lips could even frame a question.

I suppose, then, that this Mrs Albany
dines with the family — is treated quite
like a friend ? "

Lord, yes, sir ; ye see, sir, I often
works in the garden, 'cause the head
gardener knows I'm past heavy work,
and he gives me a job, and that's how
I hear a deal about the Hall gentry.
Mrs Albany ain't with the family much,
though, 'cause she lives in the left wing
along with the rest of Mr Douglas's people.
He lives there, ye see, sir, and she's
always with him — no one else."

But, my good man, I understood that
Mr Glen-Luna was so nearly crushed in
the accident, — that he was a mere wreck."

Did ye, sir ? Dear, dear, only to think
now. Well, then, he's the most sound
bi-eautifulest 'wreck' as ever I see."

And," added Albany, " that he was
dying by inches ? "

God forbid, sir ! He may be, in
course ; I ain't no scholar, and can't say
positive, but I never heard that. It'd
break the old gentleman's heart to lose
him."

I suppose so, the only son. And has
this Mrs Albany been with him long ? "

"She came in May, sir."

"A widow, eh ? "

No, sir ; the gardener felled me she was
separated from her husband."

'* Indeed ; and she doesn't, you say, leave
Mr Glen-Luna ? — doesn't, for instance, come
into the drawing-room in the evening ? "

I don't fancy she do, sir ; but, in
course, I couldn't say. It's certain sure
she wouldn't be there long, 'cause she
belongs to the master's service, ye see,
sir."

Albany had got as much as he could
out of the old hedger, so he gave him a
shilling, and walked on.

Good heaven ! What should he do now ?
What step must he take ? Had she seen
him, and already told her companion who
he was ? What if she met him unannounced,
unexpectedly, in the house, before
others, and at once unmasked him ? He

must get a line, only a line, to her someway
; but how, before night ?

The devil is in it ! " he said aloud, with
a savage stamp of his foot. " I must find
out more when I reach the Hall, and if
she does show at all I must retire with a
headache. Get a letter to her I must.
Curse her ! "

Curses come home to roost, Mr Leicester
Albany.

RECULER POUR MIEUX SAUTER.

F ever a man felt himself to be
walking on dangerous ground
now, that man was Leicester
Albany ; for although, as he walked
slowly on, he matured a scheme of warfare
which he was certain must ensure his
young wife's silence, yet, with all his
unlimited self-assurance, there yet remained
in the background of his mind's picture
of safety an uncomfortable, vague, nightmare
sort of feeling that, win as he might
for the time, the woman who had stood
uncorrupted against his foulest vices — the
darkest temptations with which he had

surrounded her — would somehow in the
end make good her stern menace.

'*Do what you will, I will foil you ! "

To turn back now would be to lose the
game before it was fairly begun, and such
a retreat never entered into his head. It
would be all right if he could get hold
of her before she saw him. Even then
he must write so that the note would not
identify him as her husband, which now
it was his whole cue to deny.

And I do believe," he muttered, " that
I have got a blank envelope in my pocketbook.
What luck ; I'll look for it, so
that part of the business is easy."

He stopped and looked into the pocket
of his handsome pocket-book. Yes, there
it was ; or rather, they, for he found two
blank envelopes. One glance at his watch,
and Leicester Albany seated himself on the
bank by the roadside, wrote something in
pencil, carefully disguising his handwriting,
on a leaf of the book, tore it out, enclosed

it, and in the same hand addressed it —

"Mrs Albany, care of Mrs May,

Street, W.C." Then he rubbed the letter
in the dust till it looked shady enough,
and, putting it into his pocket with a
smile of triumph, proceeded on his way.

His arrival at the Hall completed the
invited guests, for Percy Eosslyn and the
Salton had arrived by luncheon time.

I shall scold the groom well for being
so late at the station, my dear Brandon,"
said Sir Arthur, as the latest guest appeared
in the drawing-room before dinner.

Oh ! no, you really must not," returned
Albany ; '' especially as it not only gave mea
delightful walk, but has, I believe, enabled
me to be the means of restoring some property
to a lady ; that is," glancing inquiringly
at Jessie, near whom he was standing,
*' if any of you know whether in this neighbourhood
there is anyone named Albany,
I picked up a letter addressed — see, here
it is ! "

VOL. II. P

"Why," exclaimed Jessie, "Mrs Albany
is my brother's secretary! That address is
where she lodged, isn't it, mamma? She
must have dropped it out. She was driving
with Douglas this afternoon."

Shall I send it to her, Mr Brandon ? "
sweetly asked her ladyship, completely
hoaxed and unsuspicious, with her hand
on the bell.

"Thank you, dear Lady Glen-Luna, I
hope the lady has not yet discovered her
loss."

Here a footman noiselessly entered, and
received the soiled letter and a message.

Lady Glen-Luna's compliments, and she
thought Mrs Albany must have dropped her
letter while driving, as one of the gentlemen
found it on his way to the Hall.

Was there to be no rest or peace for
Gabrielle Albany !

She had just completed dressing for dinner,
and came into her own boudoir, when
the message and letter were given her.

The blood seemed to rush back on her
very heart, even as the long taper fingers
took the dusty envelope. There was no
definite thought or* suspicion, but simply
she knew at once that cramped odd hand
in pencil too — was utterly strange to her,
and that she never had had, and therefore
never had dropped, such a letter.

"Thank you, James." How calmly she
spoke — even carelessly. "It is only an old
letter, but still, carry my compliments and,
thanks to the gentleman. Which of them
was it ? "

I think, madam, it was Mr Brandon
who gave my lady the letter," James
answered, and retired.

Gabrielle stood for a minute, with locked
hands and breath drawn almost in gasps.
She saw at once what this letter — sent
under so cunning a subterfuge — really was,
and knew that the man to whom so heavy a
chain bound her had dared to put in force
a scheme which three words of hers could

shatter like glass. Merciful Heaven ! and
this villain was under the same roof as herself,
and worse — ten thousand times worse
under the same roof as the man whose
life was dearer to her than her own, dearer
than all, save honour. Oh, how thankful
she was that this letter had not been given
under his keen glance, as she broke it open
and read — in that hand which she never
could have proved to be Albany's.

I saw you drive past to-day, and I must
see you alone to-night ; till then keep silence
if you value life and honour. I will wait in
view of the west wing terrace till I see you
come out, and then follow to whatever spot
you lead the way."

If at that moment the writer of that
letter had stood before her, and a weapon
lain within her reach. Heaven only knows
what might have happened ; and yet, save
that she lifted her hands above her head, as
if in mute agony of passionate appeal, there
was little outward sign of the tempest within

such a tempest as, if yielded to for one
moment, must have swept down all control
and left traces which could not have escaped
the notice of Douglas Glen-Luna. Must
she ever crush heart and passion, and bitter
agony ! Could honour, brain, and soul forever
bear the cruel pressure of this fierce
self suppression, self warfare ! Was there
sin in the very strength that came to her
now, disloyalty at heart in the voiceless,
passionate cry that went up — " For his
sake ! God ! for his sake I must, I will,
bear all ! dare all — even to the charge of
dishonour ! " Truly, if there was, the sin
lay on the head of the man who had broken
every vow, every bond, every moral tie that
bound him.

It was easy for her to steal out when all
the house was still, and at rest, but to meet
him quite alone never even entered her
head. Faithful, and when required, most
formidable, Angus was, by design on the part
of his master's two attendants, left to sleep

loose in the salon, with the door of the
corridor open, so that to take him with her
was as easy as to creep out herself. She
was safe enough, she knew, under such
guardianship. It crossed her how her
husband — a stranger to the mansion —
would get out and in undiscovered ; and,
in fact, that difficulty had occurred to himself,
until shown his room to dress for
dinner, on his arrival, and there he found
that a strong trellis, covered with roses outside
the window, would make a ready means
of egress and ingress.

It was an intensely still, dark night,
with scarce a breath of air to stir one leaf
of the stately forest trees which towered
in the gloom, like some monsters of a
dream, as Leicester Albany stole under the
shadow like the guilty thing he was, and
so skirted round to a sheltered spot which
commanded a full view of the west wing,
now as darkened as the rest of the massive
pile of building.

Did the man's thoughts go back nine
years, as he stood there in the ghostly
midnight hour ? Did memory recall a
bitter, dark, dreary winter s morning, when
he had waited under the gloomy school
wall with all a lover's impatience for his
mistress, all the roue's eager passion for
his newest toy, for the beautiful child
almost, barely sixteen, with whom he was
then so madly in love ? Did he remember
how, that morning, after the Church had
made that child his wedded wife for ever*,
he had held her in his arms and taken
Heaven to witness that his love and care
should never fail ? And how had he kept
that vow through all the long seven years
she had lived with him ? Did not one flash
of remorse or compunction stir him now,
as he stood there, bent on using the foulest
weapon man can use against a woman ?
No, not once ; his soul was a chaos of evil
passions, hate, and fear, and even a flash
now and again of his old base passion to

make fuel for the fierce jealousy which ran /
through all. /

Watching like a tiger for its prey, hee
presently saw a dark robed figure com
suddenly — it seemed from he knew not
where — on to the terrace, and pause, one
hand holding a huge dog by a short chain.

Albany started, with a savage muttered
oath. '

What the devil does the girl bring that
beast for ! I am her husband, after all —
curse the folly that made me so ! "

But, for all his angry fear of the dog,
he followed the dark figure as it flitted
on like a ghost through the gloom towards
the thicket of trees just in the boundary
between the gardens and the park.

Under those Gabrielle stopped, and stood
as white, as still, as beautiful as a classic
statue, till he drew near. Then Angus
suddenly crouched, as if to spring, with
such a savage growl and menacing show
of white teeth, that Albany started back.

Hold that damned beast in fast," he
said between his teeth, " for if he touches
me I'll throttle him."

I advise you," she said coolly, " not to
so much as offer to even touch him or his
mistress ; for in the moment you do so I
will drop the chain I hold, and he would pull
you down like a reed. Do you think I
should be mad enough to meet you — you,
Leicester Albany — in this lonely spot at
midnight alone ? Quiet, Angus ; you must
wait my word, if it is needed. For you*,
speak at once and quickly, for I have
already held my peace too long ; but tomorrow
they shall all know who and what
they have in their house. I will unmask
the fine hawk they take for such a dove."

And," said Leicester, folding his arms
on his broad breast, and looking her full
in the face with those bold, insolent black
eyes, "in so doing blast yourself."

** Ay ! " she answered with bitter scorn,
*' by avowing myself the wife of such a

thing as you ; but more than that is
beyond your power. You cannot, dare
not, deny our marriage ; for I have the
certificate."

Albany laughed in sneering triumph.

You are welcome to show it ! You
have the certificate of your marriage with
Leicester Albany ; but — where is he f "

Where is he ? " Gabrielle repeated,
slowly, and her hand closed suddenly on
the dog's silver chain ; " standing before me
just now. Creeping into a noble house on
a false identity, to steal its daughter's
honour and peace. I know you, my
husband."

By the Lord ! but I'll show you directly
that you don't yet, though you are
beautiful enough to make a fellow glad to
claim you in one way, if he can't in another.
Look you ! you fled from Leicester Albany
in 'Frisco two years ago. You came here ;
got a separation ex parte ; destroyed every
line or likeness or vestige of your husband.

Those were your own words, you remember."


Ay ! too well. The miserable woman
saw at once the terrible mistake, the fatal
admission, she had made ; but, though the
very blood seemed to freeze to ice in her
veins, she never lost her haughty, unflinching
front.

"Go on ! " she said, with stern brevity ;
but her free hand was pressed against her
bosom now.

There is no one in England," Albany-went
on, deliberately, " and none that
you know of anywhere, who could or would
prove my identity. Whereas (for I did
not assume a mask haphazard, be sure) I
can very readily prove myself to be Clifford
Brandon. You threaten to go to Sir Arthur
and Lady Glen-Luna and strip that mask.
Best a dire — you will swear that I am your
scamp of a husband, Leicester Albany."

'' I will swear to the truth," she answered,
in the same stern way. " I warned you

that, if you tried this dastard scheme, I
would foil you, at whatever cost."

'' Ah fa ! — at whatever cost ; but what if
that cost were such hopeless disgrace to
yourself that you lost this, no doubt," with a
cruel sneer, " particularly pleasant, happy
berth ? Mr Douglas Glen-luna would, of
course, feel the loss of his fair companion so
terribly that — "

Keep to your point, you coward," she
broke in, with so fierce an accent and gesture
that Angus uttered another savage menace,
and dare not to name with your shameful
lips a man who is to you as light is to the
very darkness of Hades. Keep to your
point."

The dog had crouched down again at his
mistress's feet, laying his muzzle along between
his paws, with his large, watchful
brown eyes fixed steadily on the enemy.
Leicester drew back a step, with almost a
shudder of deadly fear ; but he answered
Gabrielle at once.

I repeat, you would hardly like to lose
the singular situation you hold here ; but I
have no particular wish to cross your pleasure,
if you are content to let me go mine
undisturbed. If you will exercise that very
clever brain of yours, you will see that,
having destroyed every letter, likeness,
paper — en Fin, every proof of my identity,
your threatened expose and claim to me as
your husband rests solely on your unsupported
word or oath. You cannot prove me
to be other that what I appear — Clifford
Brandon."

^' Two of the family, at least," she said, ashe
paused, " will take my word before
yours. Of course, you will deny the charge.
I expected that."

I will do more than that," he answered,
coming a step nearer, and dropping each
word one by one. " As surely as you tell
them who I am, so surely I swear — and if
ever man kept his oath I will keep this ! I
have arranged the whole story so as to fit —

that you, Gabrielle Albany, had claimed me
for the husband you knew to be really dead,
since, because finding you here, I, Clifford
Brandon, told you I would tell them what
you really were. I will swear that you had
been my mistress ! "

There was a silence after those last words
dead, awful silence. She never moved
one hair's breadth, or spoke or breathed ; but
stood there, looking at him — looking, looking,
with strange, dread, wide-open gaze in
the great dark eyes, as if she had looked
last on some awful thing of horror, and
died there where she stood — thought,
powers, the very scorn and tempest of
passions itself seemed stilled before this
last fell outrage, as the war of the wild
elements is sometimes subdued by the
wilder raging of the battle.

My God ! Is this shape of humanity
before me man born of woman, or — devil
incarnate ! "

The passionate words came, awed and

hushed, under her breath ; and she put one
beautiful hand before her eyes, as if to shut
out some sight too pitiably painful to look
upon. From far off up the river came the
ceaseless music of the falling waters over
the weir, and nearer once or twice the
rustle of a leaf as some night bird fluttered
from bough to bough, and a little whispering
breeze stole like some ghost or avenging
spirit through the lofty trees ; it seemed as
if the very pall of night had lowered darker
yet over the sleeping world.

Leicester moved uneasily. He could
better have borne, better have met, a blaze
of passion — a fierce blast of scorn and wrath.
But this, this hurled him to an unmeasurable
depth beneath passion or scorn ; it
scathed him like fire, and to break the
spell, he spoke, slowly, as before, watching
her.

*' You know now what I will do ; and
more, I leave it to your quick wits and
imagination to foresee all I will add and

suggest, in the peculiar and anomalous
position you hold to the heir of Glen-luna."


Ah ! there is that helpless charge, that
one being so dependent on her, whose recovery
lay fully half in her hands, whose life
she knew too terribly was under her guardianship,
whom she had sworn before Heaven
not to leave, come what might ; whom, try
to crush it as she would, because she was
another man's loyal wife, she loved — in
him, Douglas Glen-Luna, lay at once her
strength and her weakness, her power to
bear and temporise even now ; and, like
Achilles's foot, her one vulnerable point.

In that silence the vital force of her
masculine mind, the noble power of her
woman's heart, had regained its steadfast
strength to meet and grasp the whole position.
She saw at once that this once, at
least at present, her husband was master of
the dangerous ground on which both stood,
that she was beaten back, and must yield

outwardly once and for all. Aut fer, aut
fer. She could not strike yet. She must
bear till she could, for the sake of that one
being so loved and so helpless !

"Well," said Leicester Albany, *' which
is it to be — peace or war ? Are we two,
Mrs Albany and Clifford Brandon, to meet
in this house as strangers — or, sometime
protector and mistress ? "

She turned upon him now with such
fierce passion and pitiless, withering scorch
that the man actually recoiled.

If the mother who bore you could have
foreseen this night she would surely have
hushed you to death on her breast, as I
would the child I bore you if God in His
mercy had not spared me such stern duty !
If she had lived to see this hour, she must
have cursed the hour that gave you birth,
as I do the first moment you saw this
miserable beauty of mine. Go your way.
We are strangers here, but God of Justice
above," she said, lifting her hand, upraised

VOL. II. G

like some avenging prophetess of old, " hear
me, this man's most wronged, most miserable
wife, call down upon his head Thy just
vengeance of his deeds ! "

Gabrielle ! "

The dog sprang to his feet with an
absolute howl of ferocity at that exclamation,
and reared up so suddenly, so
furious to leap on the man that, had the
hand that grasped the chain been less
strong, or the command, " Down, dear
Angus ! " less firm, Albany's chance of life
had been but slight. He started back as
his wife drew the noble animal closer to her
side, and said with livid lips, —

If that cursed brute means to fly like
that, I warn you and your precious Douglas
to keep in your own rooms."

I warn you," said Gabrielle, with a stern
menace that shook him, " that if harm comes
to either dog or master, neither your secret
nor your life shall be safe for one hour. Lay
that well to heart, Leicester Albany."

She turned and glided away swiftly under
the trees, and mistress and dog were lost in
the gloom.

But she is beaten this time, by Heaven!"
muttered Albany, moving slowly forward ;
** she is forced to yield at last, with all her
proud scorn."

Was she ? fool and blind guide ! you forget
the old wise saw, — " Reculer pour mieux
sauter."

ANTAGONISM.

RAIN and heart racked, a fitful,
restless sleep that was the very
opposite of rest, and that terrible
waking with a dull, heavy sense of
anguish and weight which most of us have
experienced at some period — the feeling
that the day was to be got through, not
lived — that was Gabrielle Albany's awakening
to another day, a most painful position
to maintain, a most difficult part to act out.
And yet, the moment she entered Douglas
Glen-Luna's presence, she seemed to pass at
once into another, brighter atmosphere, as
from darkness to light. But she noticed
that he was restless, unquiet, and when presently

the sound of many voices came wafted
in from the lovely gardens without, he turned
his curly head sharply from the window with
a quick, half-smothered —

I cannot. I cannot ! "

A soft, firm hand on his shoulder, whose
touch vibrated along every chord of his
being.

Not even for your autocrat ? " said the
low, rich tones.

Oh, Gabrielle, if you only knew how
I dread it ! " •

Don't I know ? Don't I realise your
feelings as much as if I were a man myself
? " she answered, with a force all the
more intense from its suppression. " Don't
I exactly feel with you, for you ? Only
I know, all the more from your dread of
the very first step, how necessary it is that
the cordon of morbid suffering should be
broken through once and for all. I know,
too, that it is the first break through which
is the worst, or, rather, that once faced it

will prove half a shadow. It was no sin or
fault of yours, but an accident, and that
too, because you lost your chance of safety
to save a human life."

He turned his head to kiss the white
hand that lay on his shoulder, and lift dark
penitent eyes to hers.

Dear Gabrielle, forgive your wayward
scapegrace charge, for the hundredth time
I cry peccavi."

I suppose you must be forgiven," said
Mrs Albany, smiling. " Ah, there is Miss
Lee's sweet voice again ; what a lovely girl
she is. Now confess that you will be glad
to have a second recipient for your pretty
speeches."

She had moved a little as she spoke topick
a few of the rare flowers that scented
the air, and it was well that she did not seethe
sudden flash in those dark eyes, or the
instant look of intense agony, the fierce
setting of the curved lips, and quick clenching
of the chiselled hand that followed.

Then he laughed a little and san

'&

g-

'* ' There be none of Beauty's daughters
With a magic like thee,
And like music on the waters
Is thy sweet voice to me.'|

I won't confess to anything but that,
especially as I mean it, and I am sure I
deserve that exquisite little button hole you
have been gathering on purpose for meas
a reward — "

** For what, I wonder ? Your wickedness
? " Gabrielle said lightly, as she bent
down to fasten the flowers in his buttonhole
; *' but I'll forgive you this time."

Which is more than I deserve, your
tone says. I don't believe I shall really
make my peace with you until I have
passed the Rubicon and meet some of
these people."

I am going to fetch your hat and mine,
and we will go out into the grounds. You
can trust me not to leave you to thei

tender mercies," she added, smiling, as
she left the room, ringing for Harford as
she went.

For one moment Douglas Glen-Luna
covered his eyes with his hand.

Oh Gabrielle, my heart, my love ! it
is too late for me — only to save honour —
only to keep the secret locked here in this
heart. I dare not, cannot send thee from
me into the wide, harsh world again, God
help me ! I can bear all, suffer all, for
thee, and make no sign."

Ah me ! but the heart is still only human ;
can he guard every look, every throb,
almost every movement ! The prayer had
gone up with all the deep earnestness of
a noble faith, a spotless honour, that would
not wrong her honour — another man's wife
or his by one breath, one passing thought,
and surely, surely such prayers for help
against dire temptation are heard !

There were no traces of emotion when
she came back ; but, as she wheeled his

chair to the lift, he said, with his ever
bright smile — for was not her mere presence
happiness, despite the suffering beneath ? —

It has crossed me often, Gabrielle, how
odd it would be if ever I were to meet
again that man I saved in the accident."

They were descending in the lift now, as
she asked, —

You would know him again, then ? "

** Oh, yes ; he got into the train as I
did at Dover. I remember, too, that I did
not like his face, though he was certainly
handsome. Here we are, safe at the bottom
thanks, Harford — and here is Angus
waiting for us."

The collie bounded on through the open
hall door, and Gabrielle wheeled the chair
on to the terrace.

Douglas drew a breath of relief ; no one
was in sight from that point, nor did any
sound of voices reach their ears.

They all seem to have disappeared,"
said Mrs Albany, quietly pushing the chair

before her down the incline from the marble
terrace to the lawn, " but I suppose they
have scattered."

How inexpressibly she dreaded the first
meeting with her disguised husband, before
Glen-Luna's keen eyes, she only knew, but
it was Albany's powers of acting she distrusted,
not her own.

Would you like to stop here ? " she
said, arresting the chair at a beautiful spot
just below the wide lawn, from which a
full view of the river spread before them.

If you like it, I do, chere Gabrielle, a
lady's wish is law — Ha ! what is the matter,
Angus ? " — he interrupted himself suddenly,
as Jessie's clear treble, answered by a man's
deep tones coming on behind, caught their
ears, and the dog uttered that peculiar low,
deep growl which seems to vibrate on
the very air — " there is some one near
whom he dislikes ! who is it with Jessie,
Gabrielle ? "

She had flushed and grown ashen white

for a second as she stood behind him, but
she answered low and quickly—

Hush, I don't know ; they are too near
to look round. Lie down, Angus."

Was the faithful animals true instinct
going to betray his mistress ? She shivered
as she saw his master's glance bent suspiciously
on the dog, who lay exactly as he
had done last night at her feet, with
his nose between his paws and his eyes,
watchful.

Whoever it is," said Douglas under
his breath, ''he has seen him before, I'll
swear."

Before Gabrielle could reply, Jessie and
her companion came up.

Douglas, may I ? — Mr Clifford Brandon
my brother — and his secretary, Mrs
Albany."

The moment Douglas's eyes rested on the
guest a quick look of recognition flashed
into their depths, while Leicester started,
even violently, with an exclamation.

Good Heaven ! I cannot be mistaken !
You were my fellow-traveller eighteen
months ago, and saved my life at the
cost—"

Glen - Luna interrupted him with a
haughty flush on his bronzed cheek, but
courteous words, —

Pardon me. Let that pass, Mr
Brandon ; it is strange that we should
meet again. I recognised you directly."

Gabrielle had seen that, and her hand
had closed with a fierce grip on the handle
of the chair, and her teeth set like a vice.
Was it for this worthless life that one so
precious had been well nigh wrecked ?
"Why had he not let this dastard — her
husband — die ? It so maddened the wild,
passionate heart to know this that she
had almost stretched forth her right hand
and denounced him for what he was, only
for the one paramount sake of the man she
loved. Jessie's voice roused her to the
present, —

** It is odd, and so delightful ! Just like
a romance, isn't it, Mrs Albany ? "

Mrs Albany's haughty lip curled, but she
only said, dryly, —

"There is more romance and tragedy,
too, in real life than any romance can
tell. Where is Miss Lee ? I heard her
voice."

I don't know. She ran in for something,
and so Mr Brandon and I strolled
on till, you know, we saw you. Douglas,
do make that horrid dog be quiet. What
is he growling at ? "

I am afraid, my dear, he is rude enough
to growl at a guest. Be silent, Angus, like
a good dog." The collie leaped up eagerly,
and began licking the hand stretched to
him. " Angus, Mr Brandon, is, I am
ashamed to say, capricious, but perhaps he
will make friends when he knows you
better. Perhaps you are not fond of
dogs ? "

I cannot say that I am, Mr Glen-Luna,

and so, of course, dogs would not like me ;
but I suppose this one is good tempered % "

A splendid temper ; only, like most
of us, lie lias a will of this own, and his own
likes and dislikes ; he is very ungallant, too,
for he will not speak to Lady Glen-Luna,
coax him as she will."

"Then Angus shows very bad taste,"
said Albany, glancing antagonistically at
the dog. " Shall you join the party this
afternoon, Mr Glen-Luna ? I believe weare
all to go over to somewhere and see
a cricket match."

Oh, yes, do ! " exclaimed Jessie, clapping
her hands like a gleeful child. She knew
that the r61e of ingenue suited her, and
took " with men of Clifford Brandon s age.

No," answered Douglas, quietly, and
with an inward shrinking which Gabrielle's
subtle sympathy felt ; *' I do not think I
shall."

And I think," added his attendant,
urbanely, " that if we may be excused now

we had better go on as you wished, Mr
Glen-Luna."

"Thanks; good-bye, Jessie; Mr Brandon,
adieu for the present ; you will excuse us,
I am sure."

Albany bowed low, giving his beautiful
wife such a look as he turned away.
Jealousy may go with hate and fear, as
well as with passion, far better than with
love ; and in that covert look there was
both hate, and fear, and jealousy. She met
it steadily — in proud contempt. That look
was nothing new to the roue's hapless wife.
She only bowed coldly, and wheeled the
light chair away.

Quite away, dear Gabrielle," said
Douglas, shivering ; "I cannot bear more
of them yet, even because you wish it ! "

I do not wish it just yet." Her soft
hand touched him gently. " What do you
think of this Mr Brandon ? "

Douglas leaned right back, so that he
could look up into her face.

"As Angus does, and — as you do. I
don't like his face on that second, any more
than on the first seeing ; there is something
entirely repellant and antagonistic tome
in the man."

So there is to me," said Albany's wife,
quietly ; "I should not like to see any one
I cared for his wife, I think."

No," said Douglas, strongly ; " and if
he is doing more than flirt with Jessie
I shall speak to my father ; they are all
• — by their letters — so taken with him.
By the saints ! I am almost tempted to
the wicked wish that I had never saved
his life."

I would to Heaven you had not," she
said, between her teeth. '' You have paid
too heavy a cost if — if," she added recovering
herself, " face is any indication to a
mans life."

"It is an indication there, most decidedly,"
said Glen-Luna ; "I don't like him, and
never shall ; and, I am certain, no womanlike

you ever would. Am I not right,
Gabrielle?"

Yes."

How much language there may be in a
single word ! What a story lay in that
quiet '' yes ! "

VOL. II. H

GABRIELLE BETRAYS DOUGLAS.

amongst

H bon comme 9a/ as they say in
New Orleans !" said Douglas,
settling himself contentedly
the rich, soft cushions of the
phaeton that afternoon ; " I think one ordeal
is enough for one day. I'm quite happy
here, driving, with only my dear autocrat
for a companion."

She had the high-spirited chesnuts well
in hand as they drove at a good pace through
the park, Harford, as usual, riding a little
ahead. She looked down with an odd smile
quivering on her lips as Douglas spoke, and
said, —

One may have too much of even a good
thing, you know. I think you would, intime,
tire of me, if you had no other
society."

She spoke half in jest, half in earnest, but
not a tinge of coquetry in either ; it was not
in the woman.

Wicked Gabrielle ! you must think me
very fickle — or at least changeable, if that
is a milder word."

'ran contraire. I know you are the very
opposite of fickle — the entire reverse of
changeable, both in your likes and dislikes."

Thanks for such a good character, and
yet you assert that I shall get tired of you,
of all people under the sun."

Why not, mon ami f " turning, with her
winning smile. " I did not say that aufond
you would like me or my company less,
but that in time you would tire of having
nothing else — no other society to make a
change, a variation from mine."

Well," said he, complacently, " I have

tried the experiment now for nearly three
months, and I feel still calmly contented to
try it as long as I am, — what I am now,
except — "

'' Except what % "

That you will tire of me, Gabrielle."

Her hand tightened on the reins, and the
dark eyes looked out steadily before her as
she answered, —

I shall not tire of you. The question
or position so reversed is not synonymous."

Comment f "

Is it likely I should weary of kindness,
of a home, of honour safely sheltered ? "

She was unconscious of the stress on the
I " — of the suppressed, always suppressed
passion and pathos in her low tones and
manner, but it made the man's heart beat
and the wild blood leap in his veins, and it
was full a minute before he could answer,
before he dared trust himself to speak.

Forgive me, Gabrielle, I would not wound
you for worlds."

You never have ; you could not," she
interposed, a little hurriedly ; " it is memory
that stings and wounds, not you. I am
happy here."

Gold then deeply alloyed, happiness only
in his presence, in the present, on the merest
surface of the ground that was hecatombs
with suffering and danger, for which there
was no future, only a dreary waste of years
hard to face at twenty-five. And hers was
not one of the lighter natures that can simply
sun itself in the present hour and shut tts
eyes to the future, any more than Douglas
could.

Neither spoke until they had passed out
of the park by a gate from which three
roads soon diverged. Harford glanced back
a telegraphic inquiry to his mistress, received
a decided little nod, and the courier rode on
up the middle of the three roads, the carriage
following, its fair driver remarking
carelessly, —

Harford said this was a pretty road by

which we can get round to the river side
above the lock ; we have not come out this
way yet either."

I don't think we have, but, whether or
no, your wish is law," was the gallant reply,
at which Gabrielle laughed. Perhaps he
would scold her in a little while, but she
kept up a lively conversation that beguiled
the way and chained his attention to herself
; no hard task, certainly, for a woman
so young and beautiful and brilliant, and
that, though she knew it not, the woman he
loved. What wonder that those dark eyes
watched the ever changing play of the
mobile face at his side, and took little
heed of where she drove or the scenes
around, or of the sound of voices once or
twice borne on the breeze, till suddenly a
corner in the lane was turned. Harford
had thrown wide a five-barred gate, and
standing erect to see well before her, Gabrielle
drove through and reined up her
horses in style.

*' Gabrielle ! you wicked thing ! to play
me such a trick ! "

Ahmea culpa ! forgive me the betrayal.
See what a pretty sight it is."

So it was, for they were in the large
cricket-field of which Jessie had spoken in
the morning ; there were the players dotting
the field, for the game was at its
height ; the white tents and gay flags, the
carriages and varied vehicles drawn up not
far off, and the crowd of spectators ; the
elite gathered a little to the right of Gfen-
Luna's cortege, the rest variously disposed
all gaily dressed, of course, for it was the
grand match between the County Eleven
and the Langbourne Club, and everybody
had turned out, from the county magnates
to the peasant, all just now watching
the play with too intent an interest
to notice the addition to the company
present.

Douglas had for one moment flushed
painfully as his quick eye singled out the

party from Luna Hall, but he answered
Mrs Albany, —

I believe you and Harford planned this
between you."

Add Dr Neville, who first told me of
the match, and I will confess my fault
frankly," she said, looking down on him
as she still stood. "You will forgive me,
and try " — (this with a soft pleading tone)
" to enjoy the scene and society."

I will try, for your sake. Ha ! what
a splendid hit ! this way, too, Gabrielle ;
take care ! "

Straight off the bat, with the velocity
and force of a cannon shot, came the ball,
as if it had been aimed at that slight erect
figure which in that second only Glen-luna's
lightning quickness and dexterity
saved from the fatal blow. Every eye followed
that splendid hit — saw instantly the
danger in its flight — every one, breathless,
saw Douglas start forward, his right hand
only, it seemed, touched the ball, spun it

upwards straight as an arrow, caught it
again as it fell, and deftly threw it up to
long-off as he ran forwards. ,

There was a ringing cheer from the spectators
as Douglas leaned back again beside
Gabrielle, who had instantly resumed her
seat ; many there recognised him at once,
many more guessed who he was, but almost
before he could answer Gabrielle's anxious
You are hurt " with a " No, all is well,"
the phaeton was surrounded, besieged by
the Hall party, all with but one note* —
delighted meeting, heartiest welcome and
pleasure to see Douglas Glen-Luna amongst
them again — such a Babel of tongues that
at first it was difficult for either him or Sir
Arthur or Adeline to introduce Mrs Albany.

It's so awfully jolly to see you again,
old boy, you know," said Percy Kosslyn, who
had started and muttered, "By Jove !, the
Vienna beauty," when he saw Douglas's companion,
*' and I have had the honour of seeing
you nearly two years ago, Mrs Albany."

Indeed, Mr Rosslyn, where was that ? "

At the opera in Vienna," and there he
drew back as Hyacinth Lee, who had not
at first approached, came up, with frank
hand held out to hand as frank.

Miss Lee, how glad I am to see you
again ! "

The pleasure is reciprocal, then, Mr Glen-luna,"
Hyacinth answered, brightly and
earnestly; "and isn't it jolly, Mrs Albany,
to see an old friend's face ? And no one,
I believe, would have seen you for a longtime
but for that splendid catch. You will
stop, won't you, till the stumps are drawn,
and drive back with the rest of us, in a
troop % Do make him, Mrs Albany."

Gabrielle laughed a little.

My dear Miss Lee, you evidently think
he is like the chesnuts — held well in hand."

Pf course he is, Mrs Albany," returned
saucy, laughing Hyacinth, "■ and it's only
what men are good for — to hear and obey."

"A pleasant task when beauty gives the

orders"' said courtly Douglas, bowing his
handsome head, with a wicked glance from
Gabrielle to Hyacinth, and the other young
man laughed, and cried " Oh."

'* You've not let your silver tongue grow
rusty for want of use," said Percy Eosslyn,
glancing at Mrs Albany.

*' It has only improved by keeping, my
son," retorted Glen-Luna.

Like good wine," added young Saltoun ;
but I don't suppose you let your complimentary
powers grow rusty for want* of
use," with a bow to Mrs Albany which
pointed his own compliment. " Ah, there
are some more new comers in a victoria."

Both Douglas and Mrs Albany looked
round, and the former instantly beckoned
with a glad exclamation that made Hyacinth
look up quickly —

Neville and his sister ! "

As the mellow, flute-like tones rang out,
Hyacinth Lee looked up to meet the
smiling gaze of a pair of bright hazel eyes,

the handsome owner of which was the
next minute introduced to her by Douglas,
as " his old friend, Miss Lee."

Not a very old friend, I should think,"
said Chandos Neville, bending low to the
lovely girl before him, " unless we put
friendship beyond the reckoning of dates
and years."

Of course we do, Dr Neville," said she,
laughingly, " we count our likes and dislikes
by their worth, don't we ? "

The worth of a dislike," repeated the
physician, " what does Mrs Albany say to
that, eh?"

I beg your pardon, Dr Neville," —
Gabrielle had been speaking to Eose.

Why, Miss Lee speaks of * the worth
of dislike.' Is there anything of worth in
dislike, do you think ? "

I suppose there may be, if the dislike
is thoroughly deserved," answered Albany's
wife ; and then Douglas interposed, to
present the new-comers to those who were

gathered about the carriage, the centre of
attraction — with its two brilliant occupants.
But presently, when a splendid hit had
again called the general attention to the
field, and the party had dropped into
groups, Neville gave Mrs Albany a glance
and, touching Douglas, said, gently —

I saw that catch, and I am afraid you
have hurt yourself a little ; ten weeks ago
such a movement would have made you
swoon with pain. Are you hurt ? "

I don't think so, I couldn't help *it if
I were," was the quick low answer, " the
ball would have killed her. I am all
right, indeed, Neville ; it may have tired
me.

Yes, you are getting a little fatigued,
I think," said the physician ; " I suppose,"
with a smile, " you have a nice scolding
in store for Mrs Albany when you get her
all to yourself again."

''Ah, foil if I can manage it," said
Douglas, " which is very doubtful ; was no:^

she wicked to betray me here, like that ?
I never expected that from you, Gabrielle."


"• Et tu Brute ! " laughed his beautiful
companion, " your reproach touches me to
the heart, I assure you, monsieur ; only you
must also scold Dr Neville and Harford, for
both were in the plot."

So I suppose ; I'm a very ill-used being,
I think, but I won't scold you till we get
home, my dear tyrant."

I do not think your scolding will hurt
her, my dear," remarked Sister Rose, and at
that moment Lady Glen-Luna came up
again, on Leicester Albany's arm.

Douglas, you must really join us all in
the drawing-room this evening ! Now you
have once broken the ice, dear, we are not
going to spare you, or you either, of course,
dear Mrs Albany."

"Dear" Mrs Albany shook her curly
head with the softest of apologetic smiles.

You will kindly excuse us this evening,

I am sure, Lady Glen-Luna ; further fatigue
would be too much, I think."

Douglas, do you hear that decree ? Do,
please, rescind it."

Rank treason, Adeline," said Glen-Luna,
lazily ; " I'm too loyal a subject to dream of
disputing the royal decree."

Bad boy ! Mr Brandon, will you try
your powers of persuasion ? "

"The task of the Danaeides, madam,
when my poor powers are to be matched
against those of Mrs Albany," answered
Leicester, bowing, but she had turned to
speak to Sister Rose, calling her attention
with an amused smile, to a group of ladies
at a safe distance.

Your opposite neighbour and her coterie,"
she said ; " haven't they been enjoying a
nice scandalmongering ? "

Which was true enough, from the moment
the elegant phaeton had entered the field,
and Douglas's clever catch had drawn attention
to it.

'' Really," said Mrs Orde, " that woman's
impudence gets worse and worse ! He never
was seen anywhere, and now she makes him
come right amongst everybody, driving in
like that, at his side, as if she was — Dear
me, the face some women have ! He's quite
her slave. Miss Castaway."

Disgraceful, I call it, dear Mrs Orde ;
and just see how the men have gathered
around her, laughing and flirting ; her
friend and charge will be jealous."

*' Of course, just what she wants, I daresay,"
put in Mrs Winstanley. "Who is
that lovely girl talking to him ? Madame
won't like that, I fancy. I cannot think
what Lady Glen-Luna ^as about to have
that Mrs Albany. Just look, too, how elegantly
— ex-exquisitely she's dressed ; if she
means to persuade me that her salary paid
for all that, why, I simply don't believe it ;
that plume in her hat alone never cost less
than two or three guineas."

So it had, but it was one her husband

had given her five years ago, for even to
the last she had held some sway over the
man by no effort of her own— the sway of
her beauty— nothing higher or deeper.

"I suspect," said charitable Mrs Orde,
dropping her eyeglass, "that she knew
Glen-Luna long before his accident ; he was
no saint, of course,— young men never are,
and you may depend upon it, down here
isn't the first time madam has sat at his
side behind those restive chesnuts ! Ugh !
don't tell me."

Since the good lady was so sensitive, it
did not exactly appear what she was not to
be told, but as she ceased, she was utterly
startled by hearing a sweet voice say behind
her, with particular distinctness, to
some one, —

"Don't theologians presume that the
Serpent had many legs, Julia? But I
think that the horrid vipers about here
have two left out of the many, making up
the odds with very forked tongues."
VOL. II. I

There was a suppressed little laugh in
reply, and then Mrs Orde, not daring to
turn, saw pass slowly by two young ladies
of the Hall party, one, the " lovely girl "
who had talked to Douglas.

Very ordinary specimens, too, dear, of
the anguish scandalous ruralis' added Miss
Hyacinth, with brows elevated, and wide-open
blue eyes of innocence, looking through
the " specimen." I don't know whether
I've got the Latin order, and all that, correctly,
but in the vernacular we call it
hacJc-hiters.'^

Julia Saltoun's laughter bubbled over at
sight of the face a backward glance gave to
her view, and Hyacinth, her pretty chin
still in the air, her fair cheeks still flushed,
said viciously, —

There 1 they've had the truth for once,
detestable old cats ! "

*' Oh, Hyacinth ! suppose they know Lady
Glen-Luna ! " whispered Julia.

Not they, my dear ! and, if they do,

still more shame to dare say so much of a
lady living under Lady Glen-Luna's roof
and protection."

Quite right, but still — it would be
rather awkward for you to meet them."

They're not Hall visitors, Julia, and if
they were I should meet them with unruffled
serenity," returned Miss Hyacinth,
carrying herself all erect ; " it's a good thing
Mrs Albany is far too proud and sensible
a woman to care a bit for such vile
gossips."

Do you think she knows it, Hyacinth ? "

They were moving back towards the
carriage.

Of course she does. She breathes the
air, doesn't she, and those creatures fill the
air with their scandal ; her beauty is her
offence."

"They'll set you down as a rude, fast-tongued
hussy," laughed Julia.

*' Of course, and cut me up too ; unless
some one tells 'em, ' Oh, that's the heiress,

Miss Lee, of Leesfolly,' and then the rude
set down will be, 'Such charming eccentricity,
so original ; ugh ! the toads," concluded Miss
Hyacinth. " Ask Mrs Albany to sing you
the parody on the old French chanson.
I heard her humming it on Sunday,"
"What is it?"

C'est I'argent, I'argent, I'argent
Qui fait tourner le monde,"

sang Hyacinth — " the original is Tumour ;
oh dear ! "

What a sigh, Miss Lee."

Gabrielle's rich voice ; they had not
noticed how near they were to the phaeton.
Hyacinth laughed.

*' I was quoting your chanson, dear Mrs
Albany, and lauding its truth," said she.

**Fromsuch a wide personal experience of
the world's reverses, of course," said Douglas,
with his most wicked look.

Don't be satirical, sir, or I shall count
you as an enemy."

Then I should remind you of the Italian
proverb, — ' If I have fifty friends, it is not
enough ; if I have ■ one enemy, it is too
much.' That is true enough at any rate,
nest ce pas, Gabrielle ? "

Bitterly true ; but of that Miss Lee can
hardly have experience, I hope."

I certainly don't know of any enemy,"
said Hyacinth, with a merry laugh. " Mr
Glen-Luna used to say I was a daughter of
sunshine ; I shall have my share of troublesome
day, I suppose. Dr Neville, you are
looking down on me just as if I were some
curious insect which you expect to see spread
butterfly-wings and whirr past your face ;
don't be afraid to laugh ; be as wicked as
the rest ; I'm used to it."

Quite a martyr," said Chandos, laughing
; " but, as to the wings, you know
that angels as well as butterflies are so
provided."

What a pretty speech ; I feel wings
growing, and, like the immortal Miss

Biggs, I shall take an easy flight towards
the stars."

I think the earth would suit you better
at present," suggested Mrs Albany, gathering
up the ribbons.

You are not going off the ground yet !
Do stop till the stumps are drawn ! "

But Gabrielle had detected signs of weariness
in Douglas which no one else could —
signs she felt rather than saw physically.

Don't you see how terribly restless my
horses are ? " she said, smiling ; " they have
been very good, but they will be almost unmanageable
if we keep them much longer.
Sister Eose, do come in soon ; good-bye, Dr
Neville, till tomorrow morning. Harford,
please open the gates again."

The chesnuts made a start, almost a
bound, forwards, but two strong hands held
them in, and, as the carriage swept at speed
off the ground out into the open road, there
was an absolute little burst of admiration
from the men.

By Jove ! what a splendid whip she is! "
exclaimed Percy Eosslyn to Leicester Albany.
" What a lucky dog Glen-Luna is.
Brandon ; I told you I'd know the Vienna
beauty again, and here she is."

Don't lose your heart, my dear fellow,"
said the other, with a hardly concealed
sneer, '' she's deuced handsome, certainly."

And he turned away to where Jessie stood
flirting with young Fred Saltoun. She knew
well enough how to play off against such a
man as the soi-disant Clifford Brandon. '

r^^

SANDS MAKE THE MOUNTAINS.

^^^SHE horses quite took up their
^g ^i driver's skill and attention all
^4;^^ the way home, and Douglas
leaned back very silent and quiet ; so silent
and quiet that presently, after glancing at
him more than once, Gabrielle said, very
anxiously, —

I am afraid that in saving me you have
hurt yourself ; you are in pain ! "

How instantly the grave, even stern, contraction
of the brow changed, at the mere
sound of her voice ! How instantly the
smile came to the mobile lips, into the deep
grey eyes that met hers !

Dear Gabrielle, I cannot have you
anxious about me ! No harm was done ; I
am not in pain ; only rather fatigued. I
will keep quiet this evening on my couch,
and you must go down to the drawing-room
for a pleasant change."

Pleasant change ! From Ms side to the
room in which she must see, hear, breathe
the same air as her husband ! The words
came like bitter mockery. Douglas saw her
set her teeth suddenly ; and she said, looking
straight out before her, —

It would not be a pleasant change forme
! I had rather remain with you ! "

He said no more ; said very little during
dinner ; nor did Gabrielle. But presently,
when he was lying on his sofa, she came
and sat down in her little, low easy-chair at
his side.

You may scold me now, if you like, for
betraying you this afternoon ! You said
you would when you got me alone again ! "

Did I ? " throwing one arm under the

graceful head, and looking up at her with a
contented smile. " It may count, then,
amongst the dozens of foolish speeches I
must have made in my life."

"I have no doubt you have, mon ami;
so now make a sensible, or, at any rate, a
true one ! "

Ah ! tiens-toi ! " said he, laughing.
Are truth and sense, then, on opposite
sides of the shield ? "

Well, yes — sometimes ! You know,
well enough sense may be truth ; but truth
is not always sense, or sensible."

Best fa telle madame ! What, then,
am I to say that contains both ? "

Confess," said Gabrielle, laying her hand
lightly on his, " that you did not find the
reality as terrible as the shadow. Suddenly,
even as I flung you into the vortex, it was
the only way to break the barriers, painful
as it was."

He prisoned the hand in his own, and his
face changed.

It was for minutes horrible pain'. When
I saw that you had turned in amongst all
those people, I felt as if mentally you had
suddenly stabbed me, a dread I cannot express.
I could have cried out to you to
drive away, away — anywhere out of sight
and sound! Truth this, but not sense.
Then came that cannon-shot ball, with death
to you in it ; and every thought, every feeling,
every dread but for you was scattered.
I only knew that your precious life was in
danger ! And then there was a shout, and
they were all around us. The Rubicon was
passed, and — you were still at my side ! "

He stopped abruptly. He had lifted himself,
speaking almost passionately, the dark
eyes glowing, the bronzed cheeks flushed ;
but he sank back.

'rafter that, Gabrielle, it all seemed
changed — the cloud of dread gone. You
had been right when you said that meeting
them all again would not be so bad as I in
my morbid suffering had feared, only you

forget one thing that made all the difference
for me."

"Did I?" Poor heart! Would nothing
stop its aching throbs of pain ? " What had
I forgotten ? "

Your own dear presence — the silent atmosphere
of your own intense sympathy
that compassed me like an invisible halo,"
Douglas answered.

Thank you," the delicate lips quivered.
Her low " Thank you " was a little unsteady,
for one fleeting second, perfect self-control
had almost failed — almost, not quite
her next words were steady.

They were all so glad to see you amongst
them again ; their welcome was so cordial,
so real, that surely it nearly, if not quite,
repaid you for the pain and suffering."

*' It was very good of them. It was more
than I deserved." He was half absently, ashe
spoke, passing his fingers over the hand
he had taken. " And most of them, as you
say, meant it. I think most of them."

His grey eyes were looking dreamily out
over the scene that lay without — sky and
forest trees and silver river. What was the
exception in his mind ? Surely the same
as hers which pointed unerringly at the one
who would fain have seen all that beauty
crushed and laid low in the grave. She tried
to get at his thought.

"There is an arrive pense in your
mind? To whom does it point, mon ami'*

There was a quick flash in the dark eyes
as the glance came back to her face, tut
he only laughed slightly and shrugged his
shoulders.

It perhaps might point to more than
one and be mistaken after all."

'* You are too keen to be mistaken, or
easily deceived," said his companion, quietly.

'' Mille remerciments; let me fully return
the compliment," said Glen-Luna, " and I
do not, for one, think you need me to point
to one there to-day, met for only the second
time, whom certainly I do not like, or you

either, and who as certainly does not like
me."

She did not move a muscle, or even hold
her breath as she said, —

Who is that ? "

"Who! Oh, Gabrielle, Gabrielle, you
are a . wicked humbug after all ! Who
should I mean but the man they are
nearly all so taken with — Clifford Brandon."


Such a fierce look of scorn and hate
flashed for one second into her eyes, and
showed itself in the quick movement of her
free hand, that it was well those keen eyes
near her were drooping under their heavily-fringed
lashes.

I knew you meant him," she said.

And you agree with me ? "

Yes, to the full."

Before very long Douglas had reason to
remember that answer. He moved a little
restlessly, a little uneasily, as he often did
when anything fretted him.

I wonder if lie is at all in earnest or
only flirting with Jessie."

*' I cannot say. It might be either, you
know," answered Albany's wife, leaning
back. " Jessie is — pardon me — herself
such an incorrigible coquette that she
makes a man flirt ten degrees when he
would only perhaps go five."

She is so terribly like Adeline," said
Douglas bitterly. The first time one word
the least inimical to his stepmother
had passed his lips. " Do you know
who introduced Brandon into society,
Gabrielle ? "

I fancy," she said, " that it was someone
at the Polyglot."

The Polyglot ! rather a mixed club.
You know it ? Who else ? "

Young Eosslyn knew him. Miss Lee
said," added Mrs Albany. "Percy Eosslyn,
I mean, and several others, I believe."

*' 111 ask Percy about him," said Douglas.
** We will go into the drawing-room tomorrow

evening, Gabrielle, if you do not
mind."

Ah, that's my own good boy ; it is
what Dr Neville and I want, you remember;
it will be such a change for you from this
suite of rooms."

In which," said Glen-Luna serenely, " I
have been happy enough, as far as outward
things can go, ever since May. Here comes
Harford."

The door opened and the courier
entered.

If you could spare me for a couple of
hours, Mr Douglas, I should like to ride
over to Langbourne, as my only sister, Mrs
Be van, is ill."

111 ! not seriously, I hope, Harford ? "

"No, sir, thank you; still she is very
unwell, and as I can't go over in the day
so well — "

Mon crier, go of course, and take hera
basket of grapes, and anything else you
think she would like."

Thank you, sir, you are too kind. I
shall not be long."

Nay, don't hurry ; you know we're late
always, and never care how late it is," answered
his master, and Harford retired.

How little one can foresee the future, of
even a few weeks ! How little either of
those three dreamed the apparently, slight
but terrible bearing the illness of this sister
was to have on that

Future's undiscovered land. .

VOL. II.

MISTRESS AND MAN.

Certain dulness fell on the
circle remaining after that brilliant
equipage had left the
cricket ground, and Hyacinth openly protested
to Neville and his sister that it was
positively too bad of them to go off before
the end.

It's all those tiresome, restive horses,"
said she, " they should have had some more
quiet pair, now shouldn't they, Dr Neville ? "
"I don't think Glen-Luna cares to see
quiet ' horses in any carriage he is in. Miss
Lee ; nor would Mrs Albany by choice care
to drive such easy-going quadrupeds. Moreover,

this time Glen-Luna had no intention
of coming here at all."

Hadn't he ! " Hyacinth's blue eyes
opened wide in enlightenment. " I thought
they came on purpose to give us such a
pleasant surprise."

"Oh no ; I fancy that Glen-Luna was as
surprised to find himself here as you all were
to see him."

Didn't he wish to come ? "

Indeed, I am only his physician, Miss
Lee," said the amused doctor ; ** I thifik
Mrs Albany could answer you better than
I can."

I daresay she thought the change would
do him good," said Hyacinth shrewdly ; " do
you know. Miss Neville, I have quite fallen
in love with her ; I don't know what there
is about her even beyond her rare beauty —
a wonderful charm — something so strangely
interesting, partly, perhaps, because in repose
it is not a happy face, is it ? "

No, Miss Lee."

*' But what a resolute one," added Hyacinth,
with a change of tone ; '' mafoi! she
has a will of her own, as much as Mr Glen-luna
himself. Ah, there's mamma's voice
calling me ; I suppose they are going."

But if Lady Constance had called, it was
Lady Glen-Luna who came up, all smiles
and sweetness as usual.

'' Dr Neville, one moment ; I am so anxious
about Douglas, for he looked so fatigued !
Do you think that that catch of the ball has
done any harm ? "

But Chandos Neville knew the role he
must play, and was quite equal to her. He
answered, with a grave bow, —

I can hardly tell, madam ; I think not,
but he was wise to leave."

Or rather, so wise of dear Mrs Albany
to make him go," said Adeline, smiling ;
she is so devoted to her duty, and takes
such good care of our treasure, that really
his father and I need have no fear for his
welfare. You will see him tomorrow."

*' Oh yes ; he is not out of the wood yet,
Lady Glen-Luna."

Would that he were, Dr Neville. Will
you and your sister favour us tomorrow at
dinner, and a nice long evening, quite quiet ?
for we want to coax dear Douglas down, and
talk over getting up theatricals."

The invitation was accepted for more
reasons than Lady Glen-Luna dreamed of,
and they parted.

Neither had her ladyship the least idea,
of the watchful eyes that from a quiet vantage
point had all that afternoon taken
count of her as long as that phaeton was on
the ground. If any one had asked her
where Harford had been all that time, it is
probable that she could not have told the
questioner that he had remained mounted
at the head of the chesnuts, seeming to
take notice of little save for an occasional
glance at his master or mistress.

But late that night, after he had attended
to the former, he came noiselessly

to the latter's sitting-room, where she was
putting away some books before going into
her bedroom. She turned as the door
closed.

'^ Well, Harford?"

'mrs Albany, pardon me; perhaps,
placed as you and I are, we are almost
over suspicious."

A fault on the right side," she said,
when the enemy has the vantage ground,
and the reptile can bite the very foot
that spurns it! "

Ay, that is true, madam. Well, I
wonder who and what this Mr Brandon is
that she is so thick with him ? "

Gabrielle Albany was standing by the
centre table, toying with an ivory paperknife
as he spoke ; her hand closed with a
sudden convulsive grasp on the ivory, and
her white teeth clenched for a moment like
a vice.

I know no more of him than you do,
Harford," she said slowly, meeting his gaze

full. She had wonderful power of acting,
this woman.

'sis he here after Miss Jessie?" said
the courier, half questioning, half in assertion.


He is credited with being a favoured
admirer, if not an actual suitor yet," Mrs
Albany said, with a slight restless movement
that threw her chiselled features
more into shadow — perhaps designedly.

Reckoning," added Harford with bitter
emphasis, " on the master's death making
her heiress ; they say he's got a fortune,
but rich men like to marry rich girls for
all that ; her mother favours him, that's
certain, and that's what I don't like, Mrs
Albany."

*' Nor I ; and yet," she said, looking up
into his face again, " I should have thought
that Lady Glen-Luna looked for title, more
rank, more at least decided position for her
daughter, than Mr Brandon can offer."

Ay, but you see Miss Jessie's been out

two seasons, and not off yet ; she's no great
catch while her brother lives."

*' She has no fortune, then, beyond a
provision ? "

No, ma'am, nothing to call * fortune.'
The property is all entailed, and Sir Arthur,
when he married, made a very handsome
settlement, which, of course. Miss Jessie
will have — tied up though, beyond any
husband's control — and she will have a
good dower if she don't marry to displease
her people ; but that's all."

"Ah, best ^a, and she and her mother
think that this Brandon bird in the hand
is worth two in the bush ? "

Exactly, madam, but then fine plumage
don't make the fine bird, does it ? "

Who knew that better than the miserable
woman he addressed ?

No," she said quietly, " but Thomas
Carlyle was not far wrong when he said,
The world is very full of people — mostly
fools.' Eh bien, Harford, we must place

this gentleman under our ban also, the
more as she takes him up. If we judge a
man by his books, we may ten times more
judge him by his intimate friends."

With that mistress and man parted, the
latter to his sleep, the first to fling herself
face downwards on her couch, alone, quite
alone, smothering even the wild passionate
cry of appeal to Him who heareth the
broken hearted.

How long, Lord ! how long ? "

CHOOSING THE PARTS.

I HALL we go down to the 
before they leave the
dinner-table ? "
Gabrielle, you always think of the
exact thing I wish most ; you will make
me selfish."

She smiled, and shook her head as she
rang for Harford.

I am not the least afraid of that, mon
ami!'

I have not yet discovered anything you
are afraid of, morally or physically, " said
Douglas, as she wheeled his chair out to the

lift. " I am sure you would stand the
truest test for either, "

He might have excepted one thing — her
own sorely tried heart ; but she only answered
lightly, —

*you invest me with qualities which I
fear I do not possess to quite such an extent
as that ; I must be a great hypocrite to
have made you think I do."

*' I think, though, that Harford agrees
with me ; don't you, Harford ? "

Certainly, Mr Douglas, if madam will
pardon my boldness. "

Oh, you are privileged, I suppose, Harford,"
she said, smiling ; and then the lift
reached the hall below where Angus, who
had rushed down the wide stone stairs,
stood proudly swaying his stately tail, and
then contentedly trotted on before the chair
in its travels through the wide level corridors
to the drawing-room habitually used.

** Angus evidently thinks ' the master ' is
quite in his right place," said Mrs Albany,

as the collie pushed wide the door with his
paw and wagged round, saying as plainly
as spoken language, " Haven't I done a very
fine thing in showing my master in here."

I think he is as pleased to see you
shine in society again as I am."

"You are very, very kind Gabrielle."

The few words were said so soberly, with
such a grave pathos, that the tears sprang
into her eyes, and for a minute she could
not have trusted herself to speak quite
steadily, then she said gently, —

Nay, it must needs be the happiness of
those who are attached to you to see a
step taken which is for your happiness
and benefit,"

She always spoke, acted, moved, with the
easy, perfectly unembarrassed familiarity of
a privileged attendant, nurse, almost sister ;
for she knew, felt in the way depths of that
true woman's instinct which is so rarely at
fault, that in maintaining that graceful
familiarity lay her only strength, her

greatest means of holding her position, so
singular and even anomalous as it was.

Voila!' she added, bringing the chair to
an anchor by one of the open windows,
this will be the very place for your
Majesty to hold your court."

And at that moment Lady Glen-lungs
metallic treble was heard without, and in
came the ladies.

Ah, dear Douglas ! how good of
you to be here already ; isn't it, Lady
Constance ? "

Lady Constance's greeting was very
genuine ; so was Hyacinth's and Julia's
and Lady Saltoun's, and, of course, Miss
Neville's ; and then, while they were all
talking and laughing round his chair, beside
which Mrs Albany still remained, the
men came in and at once drifted in that
direction, attracted by both Douglas and
his beautiful companion ; all but Mr Clifford
Brandon, who, though he, like the
rest, came up to pay his devoirs with well-feigned

cordiality, soon drew aside to the
outskirts of the group ; perhaps he had
not exactly relished a look he, and only he,
had caught in the dark eyes of that handsome
woman, who stood leaning so lightly
on the back of the wheeled chair ; a look
that seemed to warn him to keep his distance
despite the sword of Damocles he
held over her head.

"And now that we are all together''
began Lady Glen-Luna, in that pretty,
bright way of hers which most people
found so charming and some few there so
insincere, "let us try and settle this
theatrical question. Douglas, my dear, I
quite rely upon you to help us over all the
difficulties."

Tout-d-vous, chere Adeline," said Glen-luna,
smiling ; " but I don't see how I
can help you much."

Oh, you can ; you know so much about
acting and plays. Doesn't he now, Mrs
Albany?"

I beg pardon, madam % " Gabrielle had
been talking to Sister Eose.

"Why, Douglas knows all about plays
and acting, that he can suggest a play and
the parts, and — "

I cry you mercy, Adeline ! " interrupted
Douglas, with uplifted hands of horror.
Miss Lee, did you ever hear such a base
attempt to throw me into such a veritable
hornets' nest ? Mafoi ! if I named A and B
for leading parts, all the other letters would
tear out my eyes."

We could not spare the bonniest been
of all," whispered Sister Eose, with a mischievous
twinkle in her own brown eyes.

*' Ah, foil Til owe you for that. Sister
Eose," he instantly whispered back, while
Hyacinth's laughing retort struck across
this by-play, —

You ought to meekly obey our behests,
be the consequences what they may."

"Not much meekness in that quarter,
my dear," said his father, with a hearty

laugh ; " I'm afraid it's not a Glen-Luna
virtue. As to a play, I should think a
farce would be best."

Decidedly," added Douglas, with an
aside to Mrs Albany ; " they'll probably
make a farce of it, anyhow."

But the younger people cried out on the
baronet, and Chandos, with a very grave
face, suggested " Macbeth," with Miss Lee
for Lady Macbeth, the mere idea of which
evoked an outburst of merriment.

I do think you deserve a good box on
the ears, Dr Neville," declared Hyacinth,
shaking her little fist at him.

Even a blow from so fair a hand would
be welcome. Miss Lee," he answered ; and
Gabrielle saw a slight frown contract Lady
Constance's brows.

Adeline said, —

You are a saucy girl. Think of some
play, please, some of you. Mr Brandon,
cannot you ? "

What do you think of Boucicault's

Hunted Down ? ' " said Albany, turning
round.

But Douglas dealt that one fatal blow.

It is not published," he said ; " so, of
course, you could not get copies."

Oh, it must be printed, Douglas ! " exclaimed
Jessie, " or how could it have been
acted at all ? "

My dear girl, printing isn't publishing.
Plays are often printed only for the owner's
use, or acted from MS. copies. Telegraph
to French, in the Strand, and you will find
that I am right."

Of course you must know," said
Lady Glen-Luna; "we must think of
another."

Plot and Passion," suggested young
Fred Saltoun.

Much too tragic," said his father.

Too exacting for amateurs," added
Douglas and Neville together. " Try
again."

Several more were named and rejected

VOL. II. L

for various reasons, and then suddenly Lady
Glen-Luna exclaimed, —

A bright thought ! Only a few weeks
ago I chanced to see in the library several
copies of Stirling Cone's play of the ' Vicar
of Wakefield.' Couldn't we do that % I
remember seeing it played at the Hay-market
when I was quite a girl."

Capital, mamma," cried Jessie ; and Sir
George Saltoun, who was a great " gun "
for elderly business in amateur theatricals,
said, —

I think we might manage it as well as
any other. Are the copies handy, Lady
Glen-Luna ? "

I'll get them, mayn't I, please % " exclaimed
Hyacinth.

Thanks, dear ; but I know exactly
where they are, so — "

Off" tripped her little ladyship to the
library, and soon returned triumphantly
with a little pile of paper-bound copies,
which she distributed all round.

"There, look! What do you think,
Douglas ? "

Chere helle-mere, I am out, of course.
I am not going to play."

You tiresome fellow ! But will it do,
dear, do you think ? "

"Yes, if you can manage the parts —
though this is by no means a good play ;
not in any way to compare to Wills's
Olivia,' according to the notice I read
when it was on at the Court, and according
to Mrs Albany's description of
it. This version, for one thing, has
followed the tale, and left those two
women, Lady Blarney and Skeggs, to
tell what Wills has, of course, made one
of the most effective scenes — that between
Thornhill and Olivia when she learns
his villainy.

Couldn't we alter this version ? " said
Hyacinth eagerly. "Mr Glen-Luna, I'm
sure you could ! Cut out those stupid old
women here, and write a scene like in

Olivia.' He can cut out Lady Glen-Luna,
can't lie ? "

He's clever enough to do anything,"
laughed Adeline, playfully striking his
shoulder. " He could cut and write in, and
Mrs Albany kindly make us copies. Oh, all
so nice if they will ! "

Instant chorus of youth.

Oh do, please ; it will be twice as jolly."

I'll do anything possible within my
power, ladies, and Mrs Albany's memory
will, I am sure, kindly come to assist me ;
but you must not expect a reproduction of
Wills's fine scene."

Chorus — " Oh, it will be splendid ! how
jolly of you."

'' And for the parts," added Jessie, "who
must be the vicar ? "

As if by one movement, every one turned
to Sir George Saltoun. Sir Arthur clapped
a hand on his shoulder.

No negatives allowed, Saltoun, you see ;
vote carried by acclamation. And I fancy.

Neville, that you would do Mr Purcell
well."

You are too flattering, Sir Arthur, but
I—"

No refusal, sir, when I add my request,"
whispered Lady Glen-Luna, with sweet persuasive
impressiveness.

'eh hien!'' said the doctor good-naturedly,
I suppose I must not finish the refusal ?"

Douglas looked down with an odd little
smile hovering on his lips as the thought
rose, how very aptly 1 could cast at least
two of the parts. The only woman in the
room who could play Olivia was, he knew,
the very one whom Adeline would not name,
indeed, could not well put before guests,
Gabrielle Albany. The other Squire Thorn-hill,
his glance went covertly to the fine
imposing form, and swarthy — to him repellant
— face of Leicester Albany ; but he said
nothing, and it was Adeline who turned that
way and laid her white hand half-laughingly
on his arm.

It's a good part in one way, Mr Brandon,
and a troublesome one in another ; but
will you take Squire Thornhill % "

Though the man dared not even glance
towards his wife, he knew her thought as
well as if it had been spoken, even while he
answered Adeline with a low bow, —

I will do my best with any part you
honour me by wishing me to take."

'* Thanks, fifty times ; and if you, Mr
Saltoun" — Fred bowed assent beforehand —
will play Moses (just your comic part),
and Mr Kosslyn take Jenkinson, we can goto
the women's parts, and settle the subordinates
afterwards. I think the three
girls had better draw lots for Olivia and
Sophia."

Not one there, except Jessie and her
mother and Mr Leicester Albany, but would
if they could have at once named Mrs
Albany, who, talking to gentle Eose, hardly
seemed to notice what went on ; as it was,
there was really no other way for the

hostess to do ; she knew that Jessie would
not draw, for that little coquette was too
well aware how utterly ridiculous she — who
never had been able to act one bit, or repeat
ten lines of verse correctly — would make
herself in, of all others, such a part, and
one in which Clifford Brandon had seen
Ellen Terry not so very long ago — not she.

I won't draw, mamma, dear," said she,
stepping back, as if inadvertently, to where
Albany stood beside Sir Arthur, "for if I
got it, I couldn't do it a bit ; it's not»my
part at all''

You are too modest," said Albany, bending
down, " or too generous, in giving up."

She blushed and laughed and denied,
feeling she had made a decided "hit" in
that quarter. Amidst much amusement
and speculations the requisite paper, and a
dainty Indian card-tray were brought, and,
when ready. Lady Glen-Luna begged Douglas
to hold it, whereupon Angus, who had
watched the cutting and folding the slips of

paper as if the whole was designed for his
express benefit, gravely raised himself, with
his great paws on his master s knees, pushed
his brown nose into the card-tray, gave the
hand that held it a loving lick, as if to say,
'' Please forgive me," and dropped gently
to his old position, lying in the chair at
Douglas's feet, and keeping watch on Albany
if he came near his master or mistress.
Dogs are very keen, if all-unconscious, disciples
of Latter.

Now, maidens fair ! " said Glen-Luna.

Laughing they came up. Hyacinth looking
saucily in his face as she bent over the tray,
and in a tone that only reached his ear, —

Only Mrs Albany can play this part.

I' 'j- "
won t.

And she drew one of the folded papers.
Julia Saltoun followed. Both opened, and
Julia held up hers with an exclamation of
fear and dismay.

It's too absurd ; I can't do it a bit ! I
shall only guy Olivia and the whole piece.,

Do make some one else take this, dear Lady
Glen-Luna. Hyacinth will make a capital
Sophia; but I've never acted any leading-part,
and I'm certain I shan't remember
such a long part or — "

Nonsense, my dear," said Lady Saltoun ;
you mustn't be lazy. I assure you, Lady
Glen-Luna, she can act very well."

I'm sure of that," was the suave answer,
and Julia yielded ; but while Adeline was
assigning Mrs Primrose to Lady Constance
and discussing the main points, the youfig
lady — who certainly had little stage conceit
— confided to Douglas's private ear that
she hoped some one would under study the
part.

And that wicked, courtly Douglas was
such a hypocrite as to tell her he was sure
she would play Olivia to perfection, if she
would cast aside all fear of failure.

We must put Truth at the very bottom
of her well sometimes — nest-ce pas ?

CROSS CURRENTS.

^^^ ACT " sounds a very simple, even
commonplace, little word ; but
what a detestable specimen of
creation is the man or woman who totally
lacks that quality ! They are like '' sweet
bells jangled out of tune." The majority
have a fair amount of it ! the minority have
that exquisite tact — that rare intensity of
subtle sympathy which is in itself a gift, of
which Douglas had said to his attendant
that hers surrounded him like a halo.

It was so this evening ! She sang, played
when asked, took her part in entertaining
the guests, as only a graceful, accomplished

woman of the world can do, and overtly
gave no more attention to Douglas than
belonged to the position in which she stood
to him ; but yet he felt, not sentient, butin
a vague, happy, restful way, that the
nameless halo was there about him. If
more than once something inadvertent jarred
painfully, a turn of the conversation, a
chance word perhaps, some extra quick
energetic movement of Rosslyn or Saltoun,
that forced upon him even more than usual
the sad difference between himself and them,
he would somehow be sure to meet her dark
eyes and see their glance go from himself to
Dr Neville with a bright smile that to him
said plainly, " Only a little while ! Look
forward to the hope held up ! " or somehow
the conversation was turned ; no one knew
how. Almost before he knew himself that
his eye was a little weary of this aspect of
the room a firm hand touched his chair, and
lo ! it was quietly wheeled into quite another
position and part of the spacious apartment.

If — and this was more than once — Adeline
was fretting and jarring every sensitive
chord with effusive attentions and affection,
she was sure to be called upon for something
for some one ; though that some one could
not have definitely said from whence came
the suggestion that Lady Glen-Luna sang
such a song, or knew the story of that old
tower in — shire, of which this was the
engraving, and told it so cleverly. She was
scarcely beside him herself for five minutes
together ; but he felt

Her presence by a spell of might,
Stoop o'er him from above.

It was well on in the evening before
Douglas found an opportunity of speaking
to Percy Eosslyn ; and then, just after
Hyacinth and Mrs Albany had sung one of
Rubinstein's exquisite duets, and every one
was begging for another, Douglas caught
Eosslyn's eye and signed to him.

Anything I can do for you, old fellow ?"
asked the young man eagerly.

'' Oh no ! thanks ! It's only that they
tell me Mr Brandon is a friend of yours ;
and as I didn't recollect such a name on
your list when I was amongst you all, I was
conjecturing where you had met him. At
the Polyglot, wasn't it ? "

I think it was first ; but I know he was
very well introduced there, you know."
By whom ? " asked Douglas.
I really forget. An attache of the
Austrian Embassy, I think. He's one of
the Brandons of — shire, and very
rich ! "

Vraiment ! " shrugging his shoulders.
Plays rather, don't he, Ross ? " This was
a random shot on suspicion.

No ; not much, that ever I saw. No ;
he came in to Aylmer's a few times ; but
didn't play much, and that rather indifferently."


Bets high on races, then ? "

He may, perhaps ; but, if so, he's rather
dark," returned Percy, glancing with a
merry twinkle to where Albany was decidedly
flirting with Jessie. " Oh ! you
needn't be afraid ; though he is, certainly —
pardon me, yon know — eris. She's very
pretty ; and he saved her from being burned,
you see ! I'm sure you'll like him ! He is
liked in society, and certainly he is an admirer
of your sister's !"

"So I see ! " said Douglas, rather dryly.

And every one knows all about him ! "
added Eosslyn.

Do they ! Best hen done mon cher !
Ah ! another of those lovely duets, and how
well the voices blend ! "

What a glorious creature your friend
Mrs Albany is ! " said Percy enthusiastically.
" If her husband treated her badly,
as they said, he deserves hanging ; unless
he is dead."

It was clear that Eosslyn had not forgotten
the impression made on his fancy by

the beautiful inconnue at the Vienna opera-house,
eighteen months ago. Gabrielle's
face was not one to be easily forgotten, even
by a young fellow who generally fell in love
and out of it with every change of the
moon, as the old song has it. His love
was

Like the moon,
Which in the firmament doth run,
And every month is new ^

'' No ; he is not dead ! " said Douglas
half amused, half pained ; and as he spoke
across the disc of his eyes passed the figure
of the very man of whom he was so unconsciously
speaking. " For Heaven's sake, my
dear boy, take care she never even hears you
allude to him. If you have heard anything
of the story from my helle-mere, you can
understand how more than painful it is to
Mrs Albany."

My dear Glen-Luna, you may rely on
me ! I'd cut out my tongue before it should
wound her, by Jove ! "

I hardly think so severe a sacrifice
would be exacted by Hermes!" said the
other, with a sort of quiet, good-natured
irony.

Percy laughed.

No ; I suppose not. Don't you think
this play will be great fun ? "

Very great fun, indeed ! "

You wicked, satirical scamp ! Don't
you think they'll act well ? They're all
used to it ; at least, I don't know about
Cliff Brandon and Dr Neville."

*' I dare say they'll do charmingly."

But you think that Olivia — you agree
with Miss Saltoun's own dictum of herself?"


One should always bow to a lady's
opinion, I believe," returned Douglas, playing
with his moustache.

You are incorrigible, Glen-Luna. Of
course we all, I suspect, hoped that — well,
that Mrs Albany would play it. I'm sure
she could splendidly ! Don't you ? "

Another foreign shrug.

Can't say, mon cher. I should think
so, from my own intimate knowledge of her ;
and she has acted a good deal."

'* It's very provoking," said Percy, his eyes
fixed on the graceful form at the piano.
Well, I suppose it can't be helped ! I'll
do my best with a small part, as the critics
say when they don't know what the deuce
to say. You and Mrs Albany will be busy
enough over writing in and arranging tomorrow,
I suppose ? "

I daresay we shall ! "

It's awfully good-natured of you, Glen-luna
; but it's just like you. Can't I
help ? "

"Oh no ; thanks, dear boy ! It's easy
enough."

To you, clever fellow! You always were
so handy with your pen; but I couldn't
manage at all. But I could copy the new
scene you write."

Thanks, very much ; but Mrs Albany

VOL. II. M

will soon do that, Ross. You will find
enough to do in getting up your part."

I suppose Lady Glen-Luna will get up
a grand lot of spectators ? " asked Percy.

"Oh, of course ! A ball, I daresay ; and
a hop after the play."

'* You will come down, dear old fellow ? "
said Eosslyn earnestly. " It won't be a bit
of fun if you are stuck away, you know ! "

Douglas flushed for a moment, at once
pained and touched.

I daresay I shall come down, dear Ross.
It's very kind of you all ! "

He stopped and bit his lip, man like,
proudly crushing even such slight sign of
emotion ; and then a burst of applause
broke across, and Percy turned to add his
thanks.

But Leicester Albany muttered fiercely to
himself, — '* She never sang like that for me
since many a year ! "

He forgot how many years it was since he
had cared to ask her to sing for him, or to

listen when the rich voice poured forth its
wealth at the request of others who could
better appreciate it than he had ever done.
Here jealousy fed on a .strange mixture of
fear and hate and flashes of base passion i

THE NEW

OLIVIA.

OUGLAS GLEN-luna and

Gabrielle were busy the next
day in rearranging the *' Vicar
of Wakefield." The cutting out of the boys
■ — Will and Dick — necessitated some alteration
of the first scene, and one or two others,
as did also the disappearance of the women
Blarney and Skeggs. Of course, therefore.
Scene second in Act IL came out
bodily, and in its place Douglas wrote a
scene placed in Squire Thornhill's rooms in
town, where he tells Olivia that their marriage
was only a sham.

And she shall give him a blow too," said

Douglas, writing it in the stage directions,
only I'm afraid Miss Saltoun will, as she
said, pretty nearly guy the thing. I wish
that—"

He arrested the rest on his lips. There
was, perhaps, just enough of a resemblance
in some points between her own bitter experience
and " Olivia's " story to make it a
painful part for Gabrielle to play, though,
if Lady Glen-Luna had directly asked her,
she could hardly have refused.

Just after luncheon Lady Glen-Luna, a
rare enough visitor, came up with a little
tap-tap and apology for intruding, but
Angus, half a minute before, had risen up
with an uneasy whine and walked to the
door, putting his nose close to the bottom
of it.

The belle-mere is coming," Douglas had
said quietly ; 'angus always tells me if any
unaccustomed person is coming, and whether
he likes or dislikes them — dear old boy ! "

And then enter Adeline, like a pretty

little tiger-cat Gabrielle thought, and wondered
if, like herself, he assigned Adeline
her likeness in music to that heard by
Mendelssohn in the Sistine Chapel, of which
he wrote, —

Mark also the horrible discord of the
Papal fifths."

Bad boy," said she playfully, '' everyone
is grumbling at you and Mrs Albany
for not appearing one bit all this morning."

'firstly, helle-mere, I preferred remaining
in my own castle ; and secondly, look
there," pointing to the folios of MS. before
(gabrielle, " how do they think we could get
through their play unless we kept to work ?
Why, Brandon can't learn the centre-point
of the part until it's written. They ought
to be studying their parts instead of calling
us hard names."

Mrs Albany, you don't keep him in
order ; please do make him come down now
or this evening."

I think not." Gabrielle glanced up with

something of anxious doubt in her expression.
" I must not, you know, have Dr
Neville scold me for encouraging overfatigue."


You hear my autocrat's order, Adeline ! "
laughed Douglas. " NHmporto, we shall
meet somewhere in the grounds or park,
perhaps tomorrow, or I may take it into
my head to inflict myself on you all again
in the drawing-room, queen same f "

Dear boy ! I wish that all inflictions
were as delightful as your company," purred
Lady G-len-Luna; " don't you, Mrs Albany ?"

** Decidedly, madam."

But you will be present at our play,
Douglas ; and of course you too, Mrs
Albany ? "

** Cela va sans dire nest-ce pas f " said
Glen-Luna ; " when is it to come off? "

About ten days or a fortnight, dear, I
think. I will write at once about the costumes
and scenery, and send out my invitations.
Sir George will be stage manager

and all that ; he's capital at all that, and
has told them that they must all have a
first rehearsal in three days, so they're all
learning their parts as hard as they can."

Will Neville be able to come ? "

I sent a note down this morning to ask
him to name his time, and he wrote back
that his evenings were free unless he should
happen to be sent for, which was not very
likely, as the country is so different to a
London practice. Ta, ta, now ; I only came
to tell you these things, so I'll run off to
my letters."

And away she went, much to the relief
both of Glen-Luna and his attendant.

All they had undertaken to do was given
in complete the next morning, and the
getting up of the play went on briskly
amongst the other amusements ; only Julia
Saltoun found hers a task, and secretly felt
very much afraid she should make a fiasco.

Douglas kept rather aloof, as he had been
used to do; during the ten or twelve days

that followed, for all the talk and interest
begun and ended, he said, with the play
and ball, which all bored fearfully, and it
suited Grabrielle's plan of strategy, because
it gave and enabled her to give Lady Glen-luna
still more the conviction that this
lying into society was really harmful to the
heir of Glen-Luna ; exactly this belief clever
Mrs Albany wished to produce. In the
grounds, and more than once out driving,
they met ; once or twice, too, Douglas came
down to the drawing-room in that ten days,
but that was all. Dr Neville said nothing ;
he knew well that in Gabrielle's hands all
was right. The last rehearsal of the play
was fixed for the morning of the day before
the ball, and while the '' company " retired
to one of the many sitting-rooms, Glen-luna,
Gabrielle, and Sister Rose, who had
walked up with Chandos, betook themselves
to a favourite nook at the bottom of the
lawn, where there was a garden chair for
the elder lady, the younger taking her more

usual seat on the foot of the wheeled chair,
with two or three volumes from which to
select readings, and Angus speedily curling
himself on her robe ; the warm air was
laden with the scent of flowers, the lazy
hum of insects, and the ripple of the river,
deepening rather than breaking the stillness
of the cloudless August morning, and now
and again the sound of voice and splash of
oars came to their ears ; then there was a
restless movement, a quick, pained contraction
of the brows in Douglas that did
not escape Gabrielle ; and then she saw him
look at his hands, those delicate chiselled
hands that yet had such nervous strength.

'* Yes," she said, quietly, exactly as if his
bitter thought had been spoken — as it had
to her — '' those hands will hold oars again
as well as ever they did. Don't you feel —
think — how different you are to what you
were ? "

I think," he said, perhaps to hide deep
emotion, " that you are a magician, and

Neville another ; are they not, Sister
Eose ? "

I hope they will prove so, my dear,"
answered Sister Eose, looking up with
her beaming smile ; " magic has changed
character in these days, but not died out."

** No, not died out," Douglas repeated
softly, half to himself, and a dreamy look
came into the large grey eyes, as if they
saw something afar off beyond the range
of physical vision ! perhaps they did, a wild,
mad dream of a future that could never bethe
woman he loved, free, and by his side,
his own for ever. He actually started with
an impatient frown at the sudden sound
of voices approaching, and turned his head
quickly.

Why, it is the company ! What is the
matter ? A break down ! Adeline, too ! "

Yes, so it was ; nearly all talking, laughing,
and yet with dismayed looks, bearing
straight down on the trio, whose repose they
at once scattered to the air.

Now, remember girls," Lady Glen-Luna
said, as they neared them, " one at a time,
or we shall frighten them ; if I am to ask,
I'll speak first."

What is the matter, helle-mere ? " asked
Douglas ; but he noticed that, though Julia
looked flushed and " odd," Hyacinth and
the others looked more expectant and triumphant
than anything else.

Why, my dear, this naughty, naughty
Julia has fairly struck her colours at rehearsal,
and says — "

*' I broke down," said Julia ; " I knew I
shouldn't do it ; I said so from the first.
I'm awfully sorry to vex anybody, but I
had better give up at once for a better substitute
than break down in the play. I
can't do ' Olivia ! ' Do take my part, Mr
Glen-Luna, and say honestly that you know
I'm right."

I'll say anything a lady commands,
Miss Saltoun ; you are quite right."

Hear, hear," cried Julia, tossing up her

hat, " and I'm sure Mr Brandon really
endorses it, for he plays capitally, and ought
to have a good ' Olivia.' I beg your pardon,
dear Lady Glen-Luna, for interrupting your
mission, but I wanted some support."

Adeline wore her sweetest smile — she
only had one or two — and most pretty,
playful manner, as she said, —

"It is too bad to ask anybody to take
up a role like that at such a few hours'
notice, and I should have telegraphed to
Blackmore for some actress, but by general
vote and acclamation I was at once entreated
and deputed to petition a lady of
whose dramatic gifts I was only then made
aware." She turned now with charming
insouciance and entreaty to Gabrielle,
Dear Mrs Albany, you will not refuse to
play ' Olivia ' for us ? They tell me you
are so clever an actress, and so used to it.
My dear girl you won't refuse ? "

Refuse ! how should she not refuse ?
What ! play " Olivia " to that man's

"" Thornhill" of all men born ! — play so
nearly in fiction the story he had made
her play so terribly in fact ; the man who
had sworn he would repudiate her as wife
and claim her as mistress ! But for the
sake of the man at whose feet she sat she
must have followed the passionate impulse
of the moment, and stood up in their midst
to point her denouncing hand at their
favoured guest and tell them why she
refused their petition. All this flashed
like lightning through heart and brain,
and Douglas alone felt, what her husband
knew, that she would fain refuse.

"It is such short notice, Lady Glen-luna,"
she said, and if the colourless cheek
grew a shade pallid, it was the only outward
sigh that mastered self-control. '* I
am so sorry, but I am afraid you must
excuse me. I could in no way," and only
Albany felt the hidden irony, " play up to
Mr Brandon s ' Thornhill.' ''

'mrs Albany, indeed you must not

refuse us ! " exclaimed Adeline, now really
in despair, and for once, therefore, with all
the force of earnestness ; and Sir George
Saltoun and the others came up with such
a chorus of beseeching and protestations
that Douglas interfered, half in jest, half in
earnest.

*' Ma foi mes amis, but I must protect
Mrs Albany from your desperate attack ;
are you not rather putting both her powers
and good nature to a severe test ? "

Oh no, no." Adeline clasped her
white hands with prettiest entreaty.
"Don't listen to your wicked defender,
dear Mrs Albany, but come to our rescue
only in pity for my position as hostess. I
know you have acted and recited, for Mr
Brandon told me just jiow that you told
him you had studied, and so I'm sure you
can get up ' Olivia ' between this and tomorrow.
If you would portly say you will
do your best with the part I shall take it
as a personal favour."

How could she still refuse without the
fear, the extreme likelihood, of rousing
some suspicion of other reasons in Glen-luna's
quick brain which might be dangerous
? She yielded gracefully, with a
low bow.

"It is impossible to refuse that which
your ladyship makes a personal request.
I will do my best with ' Olivia,' and you
will all perhaps pardon defects ? "

We shall first have to discover them,
madam," said Leicester, bending low, and
as she turned their eyes met for one second ;
his, full of bold admiration and insolent
triumph — in hers, haughty scorn, defiance,
warning. Then she laughed slightly,
thrusting: her shoulders.

Eh hen, monsieur ; nous verrons."

And then Lady Glen-Luna came in with
effusive thanks. Douglas again came to
her rescue.

"Miss Saltoun, if you would kindly let
Mrs Albany have your copy of the ' Vicar '

she would perhaps like to commence her
task without delay, so as to be ready, if
possible, for one stage rehearsal tomorrow.
I can be of some help to her, I think."

Oh, but you need not desert us too,
dear," said Adeline.

Thanks ; but I had rather be quiet today,"
said Douglas, lazily drooping his dark
head back against the cushions, '* if you
will all kindly excuse me ? "

I suppose we must," said Hyacinth
ruefully, as the relieved and delighted Julia
gave her play-book to the new '* Olivia,"
whispering eagerly, —

You're just the very one we all
secretly wanted to play it from the first,
Mrs Albany."

Which was true ; but it was very far
from what Mrs Albany herself wished.
Circumstances had for the second time in a
fortnight beaten her back and conquered
her, giving the vantage ground to her
husband.

VOL. II. N

Then Chandos Neville and his sister said
they must take leave, and the younger
people declared they would walk with them
to the park gates, while Sir George Saltoun
and Lady Glen-Luna returned to the house,
and with a deep drawn breath of relief
Gabrielle Albany found herself once more
alone with Douglas Glen-Luna.

CRUMBLING BENEATH THEIR FEET.

N copying the play as rearranged,
and looking through it, Gabrielle
had, in fact, pretty well got
letter-perfect before this, and her own rare
facility of memory made the committal of
Olivia's" part an easy task at any time,
as Douglas very well knew ; and he ascribed,
her reluctance to assume that role to the
dislike she felt for Clifford Brandon, and
still more to play a part which in so many
points resembled her own sorrowful story,
and must therefore be deeply painful.

There — I know it ! " she said about a
couple of hours later, almost flinging the

little book on the grass, to Angus's great
surprise. " I have neglected you long
enough. Let me read to you, mon ami, or
recite one or two of your favourites," drawing
from his hands the volume he had been
quietly reading all this time.

*' Indeed, my dear Gabrielle, you shall
not tire yourself for me, though your splendid
reciting is always such a treat. You
have studied elocution under both Dernier
and Calvin, and I have often wondered why
you did not go in for reciting instead of
going to old Professor Merton. You have
every advantage, both as a public and 
reader."

Except money," said Gabrielle, shaking
her head with a half sad smile, '' and
interest."

Ah, peste ! — there it always is," said
Douglas, with an impatient movement ;
"what a frightful amount of talent and
genius is lost or hidden for want of
that ! "

She dropped her hand and said, playing
with the collie's long, silky ears, —

I shall, if possible, try it whenever I
leave here ; but, you see, when I lied to
England I was utterly friendless — ay,
worse, worse than friendless, as well as
poor, and the lawsuit swept up all I had
brought. I was in the worst possible position
for trying to get into — certainly
drawing-room recitations, as you can at
once see, and I had no money to live upon,
or dress upon, while I was trying. No interest
— no introduction of any sort. I had
been, save for one or two flying visits, out of
England for seven years ; I was practically
a stranger and a foreigner. Moreover, I
was not then equal to the wear and tear
of a struggling professional life ; I was like
a more than half-wrecked vessel flung on a
lee-shore. The garish whirl of the terrible
life I had lived, ending so fearfully as it
did, had for a time shattered my powers,
and for months after I left Leicester Albany

I could not, I know, have borne the sight
or sounds of a ball-room ; nothing but
quiet and rest. The situation which, by a
lucky chance, my lawyer got me was a
very godsend ; it was a harbour of refuge
after the wild tempest, and I was strong,
quite strong, long before I was again cast
adrift."

The rich, soft voice, with its strange
pathos and suppressed passion, ceased for a
moment ; then she added, very low, bending
yet a little more over Angus, —

And now, for a time, I have found a
home."

Gabrielle, Gabrielle ! I would to Heaven
I could free you, be the cost to me what it
might ! "

The passionate force of the man — ay,
something deeper than either^startled her
for a moment, as the flash of lightning
lights up the whole canopy of Heaven, and
the blood rushed wildly back on her heart.

Hush, oh, hush ! " she said under her

breath ; " I would not, if I could, take freedom
at the least cost to you. Forgive me ;
I hardly know how it was — I never meant
to say so much. I have no right, and,
Heaven knows, would never pain or wound
you for one moment."

'' The wound to me, Gabrielle, is because
it is first yours." He had mastered himself
so nearly self - betrayed — once more.
Promise me that you will treat me still,
ever, as your friend, to whom you can
speak as you will, and find deepest, truest
sympathy. Nay, no answer in words," for
he saw how her lips were quivering ;
only put your hand in mine, and I am
answered."

Such a delicate, beautiful hand ! She
looked up as she laid it in his, and that
touch of hand to hand struck one chord
that went straight from heart to heart.
He lifted that hand to his lips — gravely,
reverentially, and dropped it in silence.
Unconsciously in each of these two brave

hearts, so very near, so terribly separated,
Lovelace's noble sentiment still held
paramount sway —

I could not love thee, dear, so much,
Loved I not honour more."

THE BALL — THE PLAY.

ADY GLEN-LUNA had certainly
signally won the first move in
her evil game, though she couch
only guess its probability, not know it fora
fact. Still her ladyship felt perfectly
satisfied of one thing, that whether or no
Douglas actually loved Gabrielle Albany,
and she deemed it was hardly possible he
could be heart-free after having her nearly
three months with him, she had no cause
to fear Hyacinth Lee ; she had no chance
against such a rival as Mrs Albany were
she to wish it and try twenty times to win
him. The only one thing she had to dread

was the death of Mrs Albany's husband ;
but for that chance.

Bah ! " muttered her ladyship ; '' M. le
Diable takes care of his own, and men like
that always live long, just because their
wives want them to be dead. As for
Hyacinth — she is four-and-twenty, and if
she did not care for Douglas, why on earth
hasn't she married ? Poor Lady Constance ;
that girl will take the bit between her teeth
yet, and marry some one without title,
money, or any particular position ; only in
her way she flirts and favours all round,
that it's hard to tell which she likes best or
flirts with most — Brandon, Eosslyn, Douglas,
or Dr Neville. He admires her, I'm sure,
and I am very glad she plays Sophia to his
Purcell. Lady Constance don't like it,
I can see ; but that's all the better, for if
Hyacinth would only fall in love I should
be absolutely safe as long as Douglas lives,
as long — "

She stopped, and walking up to the long.

cheval glass in her dressing-room, surveyed
her own pretty petite figure and face in it,
smiled in two or three different ways at
herself, tried a look of horror, of surprise, of
sorrow, and then one of gentle sadness.

So that will do, I fancy. I wish I had
more courage ; I could soon end it, I think ;
but then — then, the least suspicion would
be fatal. I must try easy, natural measures
still."

What was the woman speaking, thinking
of? Harford had said to Mrs Albany of
her, " Do you know what a little devil she
is ? " Both of those two, who loved Douglas
Glen-Luna, might well have shivered at the
face looking at itself in the glass. Ah, if
it had but been a magic mirror, such as in
fairy tales you see coming events reflected
as unerringly as the Highlander's second
sight forewarns him of danger.

Then she suddenly clenched her hands
and stamped her foot in a paroxysm of impotent
rage.

Why didn't the accident do its work
better ? Why did it leave me all to finish
at such risk ? Why does he linger on —
linger on, as if his wrecked life was worth
his having ? And, good Heaven — that this
frail life should be all that stands between
my child and such a splendid inheritance !
It shall not ! Oh, if I had only one safe
confederate, whose whole interest went with
mine ! Ha ! "

What thought had struck her that the
exclamation escaped her with such a flash
in the steel grey eyes, that made them
glitter like a serpent's ? What thought
made the lips compress into such a thin,
sinister line as she left the room ? Five
minutes later she was smiling, laughing, at
luncheon, the most affable, lively, best of
hostesses.

'' Two-faced girl make bad squaw," say the
North American Indians.

The unusually spacious and magnificent
suite of reception-rooms at Luna Hall were

the admiration, and perhaps secret envy, of
the county, and the hostess entering them
first before she retired to dress, had reason
to feel satisfied with the tasteful beauty and
perfection of light and colour. The third
room of the suite it was which had loner ao-o
been altered and arranged for use either for
music or theatricals, had now easily been
converted into a very convenient bijou
theatre, under the auspices of the men
sent from London to take charge of the
scene-shifting and the necessary " business'"
Stage, wings, exits, place for the band, and
rows upon rows of stalls were all there.

The guests had been invited to come
punctually at half past seven, as the play
began at eight, and dancing about ten or
half-past, and no one was likely to be late.

Chandos Neville and Rose had, by Douglas's
request, come in time to dine with him
and Gabrielle, and, as before, they descended
before any one arrived, and in fact entered
the grand salon by one door as Lady Glen-luna

and Hyacinth Lee came in by another,
followed at the respectful length of their
trains by Leicester Albany. The man
almost started as his bold glance fell on his
most beautiful wife, who looked simply
superb in her graceful robe of white cashmere
and falling lace, with crimson sash
and plain gold ornaments, and one white
rose nestling amidst the rich, dark masses of
her short, curling hair, — and a fierce thrill of
jealousy shook him as Douglas said something
to her. Moving in haughty endurance
amongst the roues with whom he had surrounded
her, in all the rich panoply of
gleaming satin and flashing jewels, she had
never looked more beautiful than now. He
felt a savage rush of triumph that, scorn
him, shrink from his mere touch as she
might, she must this night, if only in a
play, only in her character of actress, tell
him she loved him, and yield herself to the
clasp of arms which to her was pollution.
Jessie, tripping in all prettiness and blue

and cloudy white, would perhaps have
hardly liked it if she could have read what
was passing in his mind. Then came in
Hyacinth, and her bright eyes were brighter
still as she greeted Chandos Neville, and
then Eose, and whispered enthusiastically
to her, —

Doesn't Mrs Albany look exquisite ? —
just like a picture ? "

She always does, my dear," answered
Sister Eose, smiling.

But now carriages were heard, and the
guests arrived quickly from far and near —
for no one had declined — and before eight
the salon was well filled : Adeline never
crowded her rooms. At ten minutes to
eight the actors disappeared, and Miss
Neville, with a smiling, " I shall shelter
under your wing amongst so many
strangers," took Gabrielle's vacated seat.

But the moment Lady Glen-Luna gave
the signal for the company to move to the
theatre, Harford, who had waited near the

door, came quietly in and stood behind his
master's chair till every one was seated, and
then wheeled his chair up just behind the
last row of seats, just near Miss Neville.
Beyond that again stood the whole retinue
of servants, for each salon opened into the
other by a wide archway ; Harford, of course,
quite en regie, stood near Douglas.

In the midst of the lively buzz of tongues
and certainly Douglas kept those near
him amused enough — and consulting of the
dainty-scented programmes, the band struck
up Boccherini's charming and quaint minuet
for strings, and presently the bell tinkled,
and up rolled the curtain discovering the
first scene, and before it had gone far it did
not need such a critical judgment as Glen-luna's
to see that Mrs Albany, despite the
short notice she had had, not only knew her
stage business well and was used to acting,
but was de naturel an actress, more as the
play went on, and all acted fairly well ; it
was evident that she had the rare gift of

throwing her own power into others, and
bringing out their best means — of forcing
them nearer to her own level. Albany remembered
that power of hers of old, when
quite in the earlier days of their marriage
he had acted with her in private theatricals.
His own first appearance with Jenkinson
gained much applause ; but the interest of
the audience became really thoroughly
aroused by Olivia in the scene where her
lover is trying, and only too successfully,
to persuade her to fly with him. Was it
only the bitter memory of such a similar
scene in her own life that threw such an
intensity of passion and pathos into her
acting — such a reality into the look, at once
so searching and so full of doubt, which she
fixed on his face at his first words, " Nay,
dearest Olivia ; these scruples betray a doubt
of my affection and my honour " ? a look
that made the man who had flung her away
on a cast of the dice wince and shrink,
brazen as he was. Who there, save him,
VOL. II. •

had the secret? Who there guessed the
literal truth of the last two words of Thorn-hill's
speech, "Think only of our future
felicity. Come, Olivia ? " He threw one
strong arm round the slight form, and drew
her close to him, with a flash of cruel
triumph in his black eyes, " My joy ! my
pride ! m?/ wife I "

Richard ! Richard ! my destiny is in
your hands ! "

And then she was hurried from the stage
amidst a burst of applause. Douglas alone
said nothing. There was a deep, strange
sense of pain all through, which he could
not shake off; a vague knowledge that it
was all pain to her ; an impression — perception
rather — that purposely or not she had
thrown a new reading into Olivia, an underlying
of doubt of Thornhill all through in
the girl's mind, even when her heart yielded.
She had not " gagged " in one word ; but it
was in the intonation of the flexile voice,
he wonderful facial action, the movement

that seemed to shrink — to shiver even
when, wrapped by his arm, her head had
dropped on his shoulder. How could
Douglas guess how real that shiver had
been ?

Then the act-drop fell on the first act,
and every one began talking ; and Lady
Glen-Luna was complimented to the top
of her bent on the excellence of her
dramatic company and the "get-up" of
the play.

Mr Brandon is capital, and so are Dr
Neville and Miss Lee," said one lady, fanning
herself; " and your friend, Mrs Albany,
is simply exquisite ; isn't she. Miss Glen-luna
? It is no wonder Thornhill should
fall in love with such an Olivia."

Which remark Jessie did not like.

I think she over-acted just a little,"
said she ; " don't you, Lady Saltoun ? "

Lady Saltoun, who was a very good judge
of acting, looked a little amused.

I'm afraid, my dear, I must entirely

differ with you. Mrs Albany's impersonation
is superb. What is the next scene ? "
glancing at her programme. " Winter
Scene — Vicar's cottage after being burnt
down. Ah, and after that the scene you
have put in, Mr Glen-Luna."

He bowed.

"I am afraid, Lady Saltoun, that the
scene left to itself would be disappointing
; but I feel sure that wherever I have
failed Mrs Albany will fill up the deficiency."


"I don't think you will have left her
much room or need for * gag,' " returned the
lady, laughing ; ''I am all on the qui vive
for the scene. I am glad you have refined
Thornhill a little, as in Wills's charming
Olivia, for in this version his brutal
villainy and sudden repentance are too
absurd."

So I thought. Lady Saltoun, and Mr
Brandon quite follows my idea. He is
really playing very well, though I think

Mrs Albany is to a great extent answerable
for that."

I think so too. Ah, there is the curtain
for this front scene. Poor Mrs Primrose,
and what a lovely Sophia Miss Lee does
make ! "

And," thought Douglas, " how very well
Neville plays lover — better, I suspect, than
Mamma Lee quite likes." The thought
ended in a suppressed sigh, and a restless
lift of the head that made watchful Harford, ,
standing behind him, stoop a little and
whisper in German if he were tired and
would like to move.

Vein, meinfreund,'^ and the bright smile
reassured the faithful attendant.

There was a general settling of expectation
and excitement when, after a rather
longer wait than the others had been, the
curtain rose, and discovered a handsome
apartment in London, with Richard Thorn-hill
seated at a table, and Olivia, richly
robed now, pacing to and fro. Douglas

lifted himself from his half recumbent attitude
of languid indifference, almost startled
by something he felt, rather than saw, in
her face, or heard in the ring of her voice.
You might, indeed, have heard a pin fall, ora
breath drawn, in those few seconds before
the actress broke the stillness. She is asking
that her father should be told that she
is wedded ; it is half a prayer, half a
demand. He looks into the beautiful face,
and shakes his head, refusing her with words
of endearment, with half-a-dozen plausible
reasons why he cannot, dare not yet, owen
her publicly. She stands for a moment
gazing on him as if she could scarce have
heard aright, and then she is kneeling at his
feet, appealing to the '' love he has professed
for her," pleading for justice, only common
justice, with such anguish, such wild pathos,
that the tears started to many an eye.
Thornhill half covers his face with one hand,
and puts the other out to draw her to him ;
but still refuses, with some sign, as she

shrinks from his touch, of vexation and
rising temper. Olivia springs to her feet,
and, as he rises, quickly faces him with
flashing eyes and haughty mien. She stoops
no more to plead ; she tells him she will no
longer break her father's heart by leaving
him to believe her honour lost ; will no
longer hear the whisper, the breath of
shame, she feels in those about her even
now ; swears that she will write home, or
go herself, if he still refuses to do her
justice, and turns to leave him.

Breathless the audience watch as Thorn-hill
steps forward in her path, and, with a
cold, cruel sneer that is no acting in this
man, tells her to learn the truth, and then
leave him if she can or dare ; tells her that
the priest was a sham, the marriage a
mockery, and she, in all her proud beauty,
only Richard Thornhill's mistress — not
wedded wife.

There is a dead pause ; this woman's acting
all through has been so powerful, so

terribly real, that it grows now almost too
painful as they watch the awful change that
comes into the beautiful, deathlike face, to
which one hand is slowly lifted for a
moment, as if this thunderbolt at her feet
had dazed her senses ; dread, horror, agony,
a hoarse whisper between the white lips.

Holy Heaven above ! it cannot be true
not wedded ! only your mistress ! "

Then the scathing scorn and fierce passion
and agony of the woman break forth like a
wild torrent, before which the would-be
betrayer shrinks, almost for a minute cowers
(^liis is no acting in Leicester Albany), but
still cannot resist yet another sneer, another
bit of taunt. It is too much. With one fierce
word, " Coward ! " on her lips, she lifts her
clenched hand and strikes him once on the
breast, no play blow, lacking in passion or
force, strikes him with a passionate force that,
prepared as he is, and powerful man as he is,
he staggers slightly and gives back a step.

By Heaven ! Olivia, but I love thee

more madly than ever, and will not let thee
escape me ! "

But Olivia is too quick. As the blow is
given she turns and flees, and the act-drop
falls. A minute's pause, as if the audience
were regaining breath, and then long and
loud the applause broke forth with calls for
Brandon and Mrs Albany.

Douglas leaned back again as they came
before the curtain, but he noticed how pale
and even exhausted Gabrielle looked, though
the chiselled lips were half smiling as she
bent low to the enthusiastic audience, and
retired, not before she had met Glen-Luna's
glance with a deepening smile that reached
the beautiful eyes this time.

Splendidly acted ! " exclaimed Sir Arthur,
and Lady Saltoun asked aloud of Adeline, —

Didn't I hear some one say that some one
Mr Brandon, I think — was sure she is the
same lady he heard recite at some charity
affair in America some few years ago ? ''

I think it was," blandly answered

Adeline, delighted to find she had got hold
in her house of a '' draw " so unexpectedly,
and in no way afraid that any consideration of
money would suffice to lure Gabrielle Albany
from her charge of Douglas. * ' Perhaps, if that
is so, we can get her to give us a recitation
presently. Douglas will know, of course."

The curtain rose again on the Inn, where
the Vicar finds his miserable daughter ; and
the interest of the spectators was kept up till
the fall, especially when Thornhill once more
comes on the scene. Nor did the interest
flag for one moment on to the end, when the
curtain fell on the pretty tableau grouped on
the stage. Then there came the enthusiastic
applause and recalls of the principal artists.

"But it is certainly that very clever,
very handsome Mrs Albany who has carried
it through so splendidly," whispered Lady
Saltoun to Douglas Glen-Luna.

So she had ; but even Douglas knew only
the half of what had tried her so terribly in
this play.

THE BALL : A BUTTERFLY SINGES ITS WINGS.

ND then came all the buzz of
tongues, commenting, criticising,
talking as the guests
filtered into the centre salon or passed
into the banqueting hall opposite, where
refreshments were laid out. When the
'* theatre company " made their reappearance
in their own costumes de hal,
Gabrielle Albany saw that Douglas was
back again in the place where she had left
him — near an open window — but it was
some minutes before she could escape gracefully
the " lionising " that greeted her entrance
and gain his side.

Are you tired, mon ami, with having
to sit out all that tiresome amateur acting
of ours ? "

No ; they all did it well, especially
Neville and Brandon ; you made them. I
was only so pained, Gabrielle, because I
knew — felt, how it tried you ; your acting
was martinique ! Real. I fancy you rather
startled Brandon once or twice."

She knew she had — who better ? — and
drew a little back, with a slight laugh and
shrug of the shoulders.

Ma foi ! perhaps I did, but I could not
help that, you know. Here they all come."

A number of them ; Albany's deep voice
bandying jest and compliments to Hyacinth,
which made her laugh and colour, too, even
while she saucily retorted, —

I think it was Mrs Albany who made
us all do our best ; compliment your fair
Olivia, Squire Thornhill, or her powerful
acting."

Powerful, indeed ! " laughed Leicester,

turning with a bow to his beautiful wife.
You did not spare me, Mrs Albany ; it
was no half-hearted touch, but a real hard
blow, you gave me."

She let her eyes meet his, and said
lightly, with a half laugh that veiled to
others — not him — the double entendre of
her retort, —

You are quite strong enough to bear
it, Mr Brandon. I do not think I succeeded
in hurting or wounding you very
much."

Madam, I had rather only a blow from
a fair hand than the heart stab from bright
eyes."

He avoided the glance of hers, and turned
to Jessie, taking up her ball carte, as the
band was now heard ; and there was a
general brightening up and movement to
claim or secure partners.

Mine, this at least, Miss Lee," said
Chandos Neville, and the soft colour on
her cheek deepened slightly, and the bright

eyes were brighter still as she gave him her
hand.

"Mrs Albany, you promised me the first
and I don't know how many waltzes," said
Percy Eosslyn eagerly.

Your inventive powers are large, Mr
Eosslyn," said Grabrielle, smiling, "for I do
not think I gave any promise at all, as I
did not contemplate dancing."

Then," said Douglas very gravely, " the
sooner you not only contemplate but enact
it the better. I want to see you. I am
certain you dance like a fairy, and Eosslyn
used to be a good waltzer."

Not like you though, old fellow," said
Percy. " You used to — "

Gabrielle's hand clasped his arm ; Gabrielle's
rich tones interrupted him.

'* Come, then ; they are all in the maze
already."

Glen-Luna's eyes followed that slight,
white-robed form, which to him was all in
the world, but the sigh was smothered back

on the heavy heart, while the handsome
face and smiling lip turned to Lady Constance
and Miss Neville, who came up —
their dancing days were done," they
said.

Lady Glen-Luna's, however, clearly were
not, for she whirled past them with Sir
George Saltoun ; dignified Lady Constance
looked after them — met Douglas's amused
and entirely comprehending smile, and
answered it frankly.

Yes, of course, she is so very different'
quite exceptional. Her four or five-and-forty
years are simply numerical, because
she was born that number of years ago !
but she is so small and dainty and pretty,
so ever bright and youthful, that to see hera
wallflower would look quite as odd as
to see me dancing. Ah, Sir Arthur," smilingly
tapping the baronet with her fan ashe
came up.

Hum," said he, meaningly ; " I think
Sir Arthur ' is wanted indeed, when he

finds his wicked boy flirting with two such
charming ladies."

So you have come to help me, father ;
but I cannot resign either, even to you !
How voice and eyes spoke of the strong
affection that bound father and son ! What
a wealth of love the sister and stepmother
had trampled under foot. The thought
crossed Eose Neville, and her glance went
instinctively in search of Jessie and her
swarthy partner, but she missed them
from the throng of dancers ; so did one
other, the man's wife, and the firm, delicate
lips closed suddenly over the small white
teeth. Great heavens ! did he dare to
think that she would stand calmly by and
basely suffer him to betray the honour of
the noble house that sheltered her, of the
one man who held her very heart, to whom
every tie of love and gratitude and duty
bound her ? She might, perhaps, in her
terrible, position, be forced to let it go on to
the very last point for the sake of the one

being whose whole future — ay, and life —
depended on her. The retort that would
brand her so cruelly, so falsely, she absolutely
set at nought save for the effect it
might, even must have on her position ;
but she knew too well the desperate man
with whom she was dealing, knew the not
less desperate and ruthless character of the
woman with whom she was silently warring
foresaw that eventually those two must
draw together in one fearful interest* as
inevitably as the needle is drawn by the
magnet, and knew that when that time
came the battle would be deadly indeed.
What a miserable mockery the gay
dance, music, and glittering crowd were
to such a heavy heart as hers ! Escape
she could not ; even to remain unnoticed
and unsought was equally impossible. The
consideration, the position, which the family
accorded to Douglas Glen-Luna's secretary,
her success as Olivia, and, above all, her
own rare beauty and gifts, made her an

VOL. II. p

object of attraction, the more so because,
being already married, the men felt that
they could flirt in safety ! and the mammas
felt that she could not cross the paths of
their daughters, practically, at any rate.

Meanwhile Jessie had really turned a
little giddy, and, true coquette, made the
most of it. Albany drew her outside on to
the terrace, still keeping his arm about her.

So are you better, little fairy ? " he half
whispered, stooping to look into the blushing
face, "the room got hot, and this is
so cool, so lovely" — he was leading her
past the windows, down into the gardens
'' especially with such a witch for a
companion."

I wonder how many times you have
said the same thing to others ? " laughed
Jessie. " Please take me back to mamma,
and " — with a pout — " keep your pretty
speeches for more appreciative ears."

Cruel fairy ! for whom should Clifford
Brandon keep them, save — "

*' Why, Hyacinth Lee, or handsome Mrs
Albany," said Jessie, carelessly pulling a
flower to pieces ; but Albany detected the
jealous ring in her tone, and knew that with
her the " game " was won.

I prefer jessamine to hyacinths infinitely,"
said he coolly ; " and all Mrs
Albany's beauty is as nought to me."
Then, with an abrupt change of manner,
he clasped her hands and bent down.

Jessie ! Jessie ! forgive me if I am too
bold, have hoped too much, so much older
than you as I am ; but you must have read
guessed — that I love you, that I have
loved you from the hour I held you senseless
in my arms. Jessie, dearest, can you
learn to love me ? "

And, while the foolish, sentimental girl
whispered that she loved him already, and
listened to his vows, promising to keep all
secret till he chose to speak to her parents,
she little dreamed the dangerous ground on
which she stood — little dreamed, poor fool,

that the only hand that could pluck her
back from the gulf was that of her lover's
VA^edded wife.

The butterfly had singed its wings ; would
it quite burn them ?

When they re-entered the ballroom the
band was playing the charming overture to
Guillaume Tell," while the guests promenaded
or rested, chatted, and flirted. In
such an interval Douglas was, of course, the
centre of a group, but his quick eye, for all
that, saw the pair re-enter as readily as he
had missed them, and Neville, who was
standing near him, laughing at Hyacinth's
sallies, levelled right and left, and met by
Glen-Luna's or Gabrielle's witty repartee
noticed a slight, very slight, momentary
shadow cross the broad, fine brow as Albany
brought Jessie back to her mother, who had
just come up, all smiles, of course, but with
"request" in every line.

"A petition," she cried gaily, "made by
ever so many. Dear Mrs Albany, will you

be very good natured and give us a recitation
? You can't plead incapability after
your acting Olivia as you did ; besides, even
if Douglas won't betray you, Mr Brandon
has let the cat out of the bag, for he says he
is sure it is you he heard once in New York
recite for a charity."

And Mrs Albany is not easily mistaken,"
Leicester added, with a low bow that made
the remark a compliment.

The haughty woman to whom his feigned
homage was only insult, and she well knew
meant insolence, seemed not even to have
heard him, but answered Adeline, —

I fear, Lady Glen-Luna, that I should
disappoint you all, for, except for Mr Glen-luna,
I have not recited for two or three
years."

There was a murmur of protest, and Sir
Arthur exclaimed, —

*' Do your best, my dear, if it is not asking
too much ; and if we're not pleased, I'm
sure it will be our fault alone ! "

"You are very kind to put it so, Sir
Arthur. Well, I will do my best."

She drew off her gloves, handed them
with her bouquet to Douglas in a quiet,
matter-of-course way, as if he had been her
brother, and drew back to the centre of the
spacious salon, all grace, ease, perfect self-possession,
not a shadow of self-consciousness
in one look or movement. So beyond
measure beautiful, standing there literally,
as she did metaphorically, alone before them
all, that for a minute a rush of intolerable
pain went through the heart of the man
who loved her so deeply, so without even
the right of hope. Then her rich, ever
pathetic voice broke the hush of expectation.

What shall it be ? Grave or gay,
tragedy or comedy ? "

Oh, comedy, please, Mrs Albany ; make
us laugh."

'eh hen, then I will give you Mark
Twain's inimitable 'Buck Bashaw's Funeral'"

She began, and in a very few moments

ripples of suppressed laughter ran along
from lip to lip like a wave ; it might have
been the very men themselves speaking, so
perfect was the reader's adoption of each
character. The dainty, refined, highflown
phrases of the educated minister tripped ois
her tongue in irresistibly amusing contrast
to the strong, rougher, broader American
accent, and ceaseless flow of out-west slanof.
More than once the outburst of laughter compelled
a moment's pause, and one lady ^f
high rank whispered to Lady Glen-Luna, —

It sounds positively absurd to hear all
that queer slang from that delicate, highbred
woman. I don't suppose she half
knows the English of it all more than we do."

Indeed, she can tell us every word, my
dear marchioness ; she has been in California,
and the other States too. And, if
she could not, Douglas could, for he has
been all over those regions."

*' Indeed ! well, they must get on well,
then. What a memory she has ! "

The piece fairly brought down the house,
and the moment Gabrielle moved there was
but one outcry from the throng that made
her pause.

Something else, please ! don't stop
yet ! " and the Marchioness of Dangers
said courteously, —

'' If you know it, Mrs Albany, I should
so like to hear a little fugitive piece, not
much known perhaps, of Mrs Barrett Browning's,
called 'A Woman's Question'"

Gabrielle's dark eyes flashed as she bowed ;
right in a line before her stood her false
husband beside Jessie Glen-Luna ; did she
know he winced under her glance — felt, too,
almost afraid of herself lest all her own
passionate intensity of feeling should speak
too forcibly in the words she uttered even
in the very first verse ?

Do you know that you have asked for the
costliest thing
Ever made by hand above,
A woman's heart, and a woman's life,
And a woman's wonderful love % "

The tall form was so directly in the reciter
s line of vision that it was only natural
those dark eyes should rest on it ; the words
seemed — to him, at any rate — to be addressed
to him, consciously or not ; and
yet he could not move, dared not. Was it
not to him, and him alone — so guilt read
it — that the woman he had so wronged
spoke when she came to the lines, —

*' Now stand at the bar of my woman's soul,
Until I shall question thee % "

and, with a half step forwards and sternly
pointing hand, met and bore down his gaze,
which, all shrinking as it was, yet impelled
by her very force to gaze again, with the
red blood mounting slowly to his swarthy
cheek, under the terrible irony that he felt,
like cold steel, through all the passion and
pathos with which she especially gave the
last three verses, —

*' Is your heart an ocean so strong and deep
I may launch my all on its tide %

VOL. II. Q

A loving woman finds heaven or hell
The day she is made a bride.

I require all things that are grand and true,
All things that a man should be ;
If you give this all, I would stake my life
To be all you demand of me.

If you cannot do this, a laundress and cook
You can hire, with little to pay ;
But a woman's heart and a woman's life
Are not to be won that way."

The slender hands dropped, the firm lips
closed, the flush died out of the now colourless,
statuesque face ; back to their depths,
once more suppressed under an iron will,
swept the agony and volcano fires of the
woman's soul that for a few moments had
found some vent ; and, as amidst the
applause she drew back to Douglas's side,
there came over the man who had made
such a wreck — ay, such a hell — of her life
a dim, vague sense of something he had
lost out of his life — something grand and
beautiful — but far beyond him, which that
man held by whom she stood.

And with that dim sense came a deeper,
fiercer hatred and fear of the wife he had
wronged, and the man who had saved his
dastard life at the loss of more than life
to himself.

END OF VOL. II.

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

,4?&J

3 0112 045822381

WMMmsMM

^3^^S1

A NOVEL.

BY

EDITH Stewart DEEWRY,

AUTHOR OF "a DEATH RING," " SWORN FOES," "BAPTISED
WITH A CURSE," " TWO FLOWERS," ETC., ETC.

JN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. III.

LONDON: F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

188 3.
[All Rights reserved.]

Crown Zvo^ cloth 3^. dd. each.

The following Volumes of the Series are now ready :—
MY SISTER THE ACTRESS. By Florence Marryat.

" My Sister the Actress " is the best novel we have had the pleasure of
reading from the pen of Miss Marryat.' — yo/m Btdl.

THE DEAN'S WIFE. By Mrs Eiloart.

Any reader who wants a good story thoroughly well told cannot do better
than read " The Dean's Wife." 'john Bull.

A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence Marryat.

A really charming story, full of delicate pathos and quiet humour ;
pleasant to read and pleasant to remember.' — yon Bull.

TWO MEN AND A MAID. By Harriettt Jay.

'Compared with the former works of the authoress of " The Queen of
Connaught," this novel must be pronounced second to none.' — Graphic.

SWEETHEART AND WIFE. By Lady Constance
Howard.

The story fi'om first to last is attractive, and cannot fail to command
wide iayonv. '—IVkite/iall Review.

PHYLLIDA. By Florence Marryat.

"' Phyllis" is a novel of which the aut may be justly proud'—
Morning Post.

BARBARA'S Warning. By the Author of ' Recommended
to Mercy.'

COLSTON and son, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

CHAPTER I.

Pass
MY SISTER, MY SWEET SISTER, . . .1

CHAPTER II.

AN UNWELCOME MEETING, . . .8

CHAPTER III.

READING BETWEEN THE LINES, . . .BO

CHAPTER IV.

PHYSICIAN HEAL THYSELF, . . .33

CHAPTER Y.

TROUBLED WATERS, . . . .46

CHAPTER YI.

THE BEGINNING OF THE END, . . .65

CHAPTER Il.
Hands Neville's favourite flower, . .73

CHAPTER Viii.

GABRIELLE MAKES A BOLD MOVE, . . .85

CHAPTER IX.

TARQUIn's LESSON STILL STANDS, . . .100

CHAPTER X.

A FAITHFUL FRIEND, . . . . 115

CHAPTER XI.

DROPPING THE MASK A LITTLE, . . 128

CHAPTER XII.

DEEPER AND DEEPER THE BLACK SHADOWS FALL, 136

CHAPTER XIII.

A GULF AT HIS FEET, 150

CHAPTER XIV.

AFTER THE STORM; A THREATENING SKY STILL, 168

CHAPTER XV.

DARK HOURS, . . . . .177

CHAPTER XVI.
Neville's dream is fulfilled, . . 186

CHAPTER XVII.

DOOMED, . . . . .197

CHAPTER XVIII.

AFTER THE FIRE, . . . .212

CHAPTER XIX.

AWAY ABROAD, 227

CHAPTER XX.

THE TALES OF OUR TRAVELLERS ARE FINISHED

AT LAST, . . - . 235

CHAPTER I.

MY SISTER, MY SWEET SISTER.

it is all over, the roses and
the thorns, the pleasure and the
pain. Over ! Is it all over ?
If some of the roses are fadeless, are the
thorns dead ? If the pleasure still lives
through the days that follow, is the pain
gone from beating, aching hearts ? I trow
not so soon. Rose Neville, with the
quiet, tender insight of her tender, loving,
woman's heart, could have pointed to two

VOL. III. A

at least within that stately Hall into whose
souls the thorns had struck too deep to be
rooted out ; she could have touched her own
brother one evening as he paced to and fro
the room with slow step and sombre brow,
and said, " The thorns and the rose grow
together there."

I wish you had been at home this afternoon,
my dear," she said, presently; "for I
had two such charming visitors."

Chandos paused by her, dropping his
hand with a caressing action on her
shoulder.

'* Who was that, dear Eose sans Spines f"

Two ladies on horseback, attended by
Marston — guess — "

Mrs Albany ! "

Yes, on Hassan ; and who else ? "

"I don't know, Eose. Did they dismount
? "

Oh yes, and had a chat ; took this in ina
two hours' ride. Well, the other lady was
Hyacinth Lee."

Neville dropped his hand abruptly.

Hyacinth Lee here, sister Rose ! "

Certainly, my dear ; and disappointed
because you were out."

His cheek flushed, his hazel eyes sparkled
for a moment, then both the flush and the
light died out.

It was kind of her to say so, Eose ; but
she — I am glad I was out."

Rose was not like Gabriel] e Albany, she
was no Jesuit — she was not subtle, she
could not fence or go very far round to gain
an object near her heart. She could be
silent or speak straight to reach that object,
and now she lifted those clear, tender, brown
eyes to his face.

Chandos, Chandos, you cannot deceive
me ! My dear, do you think I do not know
your heart ? "

Neville swung round sharply, walked to
the end of the room, came back, and stopped
before her.

I suppose you do, Rose. You know,

then, what a mad fool I am to love one I
may never, never, even try to win."

Never ! Why not Chandos ? " very
quietly, very composedly asked. " You
cannot think, believe Lady Glen-Luna's
fancy, and Lady Constance's secret hopes
well founded, that Hyacinth cares for
Douglas ; or, still more, that he is anyone's
rival there " — her face saddened — " his
life, I fear, is laid at very different feet, poor
hearts ! Why, then, can you never even
try to win the heart which won yours ? "

Why not ? " The haughty blood dyed
his very brow now. '' Because, Eose, if that
were all fancy — and I fear for his sake and
Gabrielle's that you are right — between us
there stands a mountain of gold. I am
what I am, and Hyacinth Lee is an heiress."

Well, my dear, she is still a woman,
with a woman's heart to be won," said
Sister Rose, looking up with her sweet,
gentle smile.

"Rose, am I turned craven — without

pride or honour ? Do you think I, Chandos
Neville, .would give the world, and, still
more, Hyacinth herself, the chance, the
right, to deem me seeking her for her gold ?
Never."

The touch that rarely failed to soothe
passion or pain was laid on his arm now.

"physician heal thyself,' you, so wise
for others, be a Little wise for yourself
You have seen her constantly now for
weeks, and you cannot but see that she
likes your society. I know nothing of her
heart or feelings, and therefore I am betraying
no confidences ; but Hyacinth, though
not a woman of the world like Gabrielle, is
still four-and-twenty, has lived in society
the object of attention since she was eighteen,
and she is no woman if she cannot tell when
a man is attracted by her herself, however
he may veil his heart from other's gaze, and
I think that if Hyacinth Lee had judged you
a man who could sink to be a fortune-hunter,
she would have found means, as a

woman can, to let you feel yourself unwelcome,
as she has of others."

Eose, oh Eose ! don't tempt me ! don't
fight against my honour, darling sister, in
your love for me ! " he said hoarsely.

Hush, dearest, I do not ; when did you
ever know my love blind ? I would not
have a mistaken sense of honour blind those
you love for one worthy of even you, that
is all, Chandos. You have no right, remember,
to wreck your life and hers, if she
has learned to care for you, for a mistaken
pride and fancied honour. If she learns to
love you she will read you right ; nay, I
know she does that already, and for what
the world may say, why a Neville would
never be coward enough to forsake a woman
for what the world might say."

*' Never ; but still, still, Eose, Eose," he
locked his sister's hands in his own now, " I
cannot bring myself to do it! to try even.
1 dare not hope ! If I could leave this place
I would, but I cannot till Douglas is able to

be moved. No, I must fight the battle out
here."

"Go on simply as you have done
hitherto," said gentle, judicious Eose,
quietly leaving the seed she had sown to
take root and grow, *' let all else rest now,
and forgive Sister Rose her lecture."

** Forgive!" Chandos folded her in his
arms close. "It is I who need your forgiveness
every hour. God bless thee forever,
Sister Rose ! "

AN UNWELCOME MEETING.

^l^pHERE had been a driving party
that morning, and in the afternoon
most of the guests had remained
indoors playing billiards, or otherwise
amusing themselves. Hyacinth Lee,
however, had by chance met Mrs Albany
in one of the corridors, and learned that
she was going out riding for a couple of
hours, and to call on Miss Neville. Mr
Green-Luna had insisted on her not remaining
in the whole of such a lovely afternoon.
Hyacinth looked so wistful that Gabrielle
smiled and asked her to join her, if the

others would spare her such a charmante
companion."

I shall slip off," cried Hyacinth, as she
ran off, " and just tell mamma that I am
out with you."

Thus it was that Sister Rose's quiet afternoon
was enlivened by the two visitors of
whom she had told her brother.

They had taken The Cedars on the homeward
route, and it was near five when they
remounted. Just, however, as they had
almost reached the park gates, Hyacinth
suddenly drew rein with a blank face.

There ! What a stupid, heedless memory
I've got ! " she exclaimed ; and Hassan,
checked too by his rider, pawed the ground
impatiently, " I promised mamma I would
match her embroidery silks in Doring ; I
know the shades. Haven't we time to go
back ? I must get them for her, Mrs
Albany."

"It is easily managed," said Gabrielle,
smiling, *' I must ride on, because I have

left Mr Glen-Luna so long, and, besides,
we dine earlier to-day ; but you can easily
ride back with Marston, of course, and buy
your silks — a long job, I know."

But, no, no, to let you ride back alone."

Gabrielle laughed, with something of a
ring of bitterness through the amused surprise.


Not ride alone ! Why not ? The conventionalities,
if that is what you mean,
trouble me not a bit. I am too Bohemian
for that, and I have ridden alone where I
tell you I should have been thankful for
such a guardian as Angus here ; so turn
back, and be quite easy about me. Marston
! "

"Yes, madam." Marston came up to his
mistress to receive her order, and the two
fair equestrians parted company ; Hyacinth
turned back towards Doring, attended by
the groom, who secretly wondered what his
master would say if the Arab took to be
*'skeery," and Gabrielle Albany, followed

<b

by Angus, rode through the gates and struck
across the rich soft turf of the park at an
easy canter, the beautiful Arab lifting his
delicate hoofs with the dainty dancing step
of the true denizen of the desert ; but when
she had got to a thicket of trees about halfway
between the lodge and the Hall, Hassan's
rider made the discovery that one of the
saddle girths was loose. Many ladies would
have been somewhat at a non flues at such
a discovery, but Gabrielle in a moment had
drawn rein, dismounted, and, with the bridge
over her arm, proceeded to tighten the girth
ao-ain, the Arab turning; his head to see what
she was about, and Angus, for dogs are very
curious, watching her with the most inquiring
expression.

"There, Hassan, it's all right now," she
said, caressing the beautiful animal, and
still holding the bridle, ** stand still while I
mount."

But before she could put her foot in the
stirrup for the spring the dog suddenly gave

<t>

a growl, there was the crash of footsteps
over the fallen leaves, and a tall man's figure
stood before her — her husband.

If for one moment the blood almost left
her lips, it was not from physical fear ; the
dog was at her side ; if she receded a step
and shrank back closer to the Arab with a
look of intense horror, it was from exactly
the same feeling that the sudden presence of
some loathsome reptile would have given her.
For that second there was dead stillness, and
then Albany broke it, —

Well met," he said, with that sneer
which came most readily to his lips, " I had
hardly looked for such luck when I strayed
this way ; you are so very attentive to
your — "

** What you have to say " — she interrupted
him so sternly, that even his bold
eyes quailed a moment — " say quickly, and
without insult ; if, indeed, such foul lips as
yours can address the wife whose honour
you would have sold, without insult. Basta !

I care not for your frown or oath. Shall I
tell you what you would say ? "

Gabrielle ! "

Without moving from her attitude of
superb and graceful repose, that seemed to
scorn even the attempt to shun him, without
once dropping her steady gaze, she took
him up there.

You would sound how far I am cognisant
of the progress of your admirable
matrimonial scheme, how far I may be held
under the sword of Damocles ; you fancy
perhaps, that there may, must, be in me
some spark of the sentiment which you
imagine wifehood itself must feel at seeing
another put where she had been ; but,
whether you planned or built upon the
existence of such a sentiment matters not,
it is equally a chimera. For that there
must at least be some remnant of a sense
of moral obligation left, and I have none,
for you, yourself long ago snapped asunder
the very last frail thread of that ; perhaps

even there must be some memory of having
once loved, and I, never — "

Hold ! " Leicester broke in, passion and
vanity stung to the quick. " When that
evening, which you cannot forget, I held you
to my breast, you loved me then, child scarce
sixteen though you were."

'' Never, Leicester Albany, and you know
it ; I never loved you, child or woman,
maiden or wedded wife, in all the seven
years I lived with you, from the cursed
hour in which, maddened by cruel injustice,
I fled with you, to the day I fled from
you !

Do you think I don't know what all
this means," said Leicester, with a fierce
sneer, " when you are mounted on his own
horse ; his very dog follows you as himself,
and his servants treat you as their mistress
! Death. Do you think I am
blind ? ''

The taunt was so cowardly, the insult so
unmanly, that it missed its point ; this was

a thing far beneath the passion of indignation,
below even contempt, its venom must
simply be drawn as the snake-charmer cuts
out the poison of the reptile he masters.

You are true still to yourself, Leicester
Albany, but one more such word as that and
I will at once claim Sir Arthur s protection
against the insult of his guest, Mr Clifford
Brandon ; even such a poor infatuated fool
as the girl you have entrapped would break,
I fancy, with a lover guilty of such gross
breach of hospitality, even if her jealousy
were not roused."

You dare not," said Leicester, furiously.
You dare not do it — "

I warn you," she said, with a flash in
her dark eyes that he knew of old, " not to
drive me too far. Dare not is a word my
category of language does not know ; dare
all is, as you will learn to your cost, if you
drive me to turn to bay."

There was a minute's pause. In her
armour of steel there was one vulnerable

point, if her deadly enemy had known how
to reach it — the safety of the man she loved,
the very secret of that love itself. That her
husband's worst jealousy fancied this she
saw, and that to guard against an attack
from which her very heart of woman shrank,
ay, and for the very end for which she
played, she must act out a fear of him, feign
a dread of the powerful threat he held over
her, which had no real existence in her.
She must let him believe that he had
forced her from her vow to foil him —
that she was obliged to allow his scheme
to culminate in a marriage with Jessie
Glen-Luna.

She broke that pause, moving her right
hand to the pommel as if about to
mount, but otherwise with no change of
attitude, and with none of look, or tone,
or manner.

When we met that night in the park
there was a threat on your part, worthy of
your base nature, under which a certain

tacit truce was entered into between us, and
an armed neutrality understood. The keynote
of that truce was that we were to meet
as strangers, — that you should go your way
and I mine. I have kept to that bargain,
but you, in this hour, have broken it, and
again I warn you against so doing. You
vowed that if I betray your true name you
will swear I was your mistress, and from
that I shrank ; but, remember this, that if
ever you drive me to that, if ever you succeed
in so dragging me down at last, by
the heaven above, I will not fall alone ! "

Albany fell back a pace with something
of absolute fear and awe in his gaze ; the
woman was sublime in her declaration of
vengeance, magnificent in her splendid
scorn.

She tightened her grasp on the pommel,
put her foot in the stirrup, and before Albany
could move, was in the saddle.

Gabrielle !— "

The word came almost under his breath

VOL. III. B

as he made one step forward, but she reined
back the mettlesome Arab.

Stand back, and remember my warning."
The next moment horse, rider, and
dog were gone, and Leicester Albany stood
alone in the wood.

\#>€S

l^afei.fja

READING BETWEEN THE LINES.

EFT alone on the ground for
which he was playing so dark
and desperate a game, Leicester
Albany stood watching the rapidly retreating
form of that graceful rider with a very
maelstrom of mad, contending passions
within, through which there struggled a
vague uneasy sense, rather than feeling,
that, despite the power he held over her,
she would somehow in the end be master.
The thirst for the gold, which alone could
minister to his vices, fury, jealousy, passion,
hatred, all and at once had possession of the
man like a pack of demons, a flash up of

tlie^ old passion aroused by her superb
beauty, side by side with a fierce hatred,
deepened by fear, of the woman who, calmly
like a rock — unmoved alike by threats
or bribe of freedom, stood an immovable
obstacle to the safe consummation of his
schemes, deliberately disavowing any moral
obligation ; the remotest remnant of even
wifely sentiment, or any tie whatsoever
except the one indissoluble chain which
legally held them both. She was just his
wife enough to prevent him, as she had said,
wrecking another life," but she had
wrenched from him the very last legal right
of husband which he once had possessed.
It is an integral and one of the most
repulsive parts of such a character as this,
to covet most that which it has not, plays
with it when gained only as long as it has
novelty, toss it aside, and then, when lost
irremediably, and gathered up by other
hands, want it back again with tenfold
force. So now was it in some degree,

despite his fancy for pretty, witching
Jessie. He had been madly in love with
Gabrielle, and he had cared for her more
deeply and far longer than he ever had
for any one before or since ; indeed, she had,
in fact, never to the last entirely lost her
sway over him. There are some rare women
who, not by any will or effort of their
own, but simply because they cannot help
it, never entirely lose a hold once yielded
them ; and Gabrielle was one of these.
How he had treated her we have seen, but
her beauty came fresh again, after two years'
absence, since, too, he had lost her, and
another cared for her, ay, surely must love
her, and she him ; and the mere thought,
the bare possibility, fired the debased
nature with jealousy and that gleam of the
former passion which linked itself to his
hate and fear of her scornful master spirit.
If she had never loved him — and the
truth of that stung him more than all — she
had never, in all those miserable years

-^

loved any other ; those he flung her
amongst could not touch such a heart of
gold ; but Douglas, the man felt instinctively,
was quite of another mould ; he was
of Gabrielle's world just as much as he
himself was not, and never had been ; and
Leicester Albany muttered a fierce oath to
himself as he left the wooding, warned by
the lengthening shadows that he should
return to the Hall. His mind was made upto
two things : to speak quickly to Jessie's
mother and know how far the ground was
dangerous, and how far safe ; and to sound
and find out if certain suspicions of his
about that lady's motive in placing Mrs
Albany about her stepson were correct, for
he had understood from Jessie that the
proposition had come from her mother, and
Lady Glen-Luna's great show of affection
for Douglas had not entirely deceived him,
though he by no means fathomed her yet.
For Gabrielle she was no match, but for
Leicester she was, though a certain subtle.

nameless affinity of evil quickly made them
gravitate towards each other.

As he neared the lawn — for he had
skirted round to that side — he saw the very
person he was thinking of seated on a
rustic bench under a spreading tree.
Hearing a step, she looked up.

You, Mr Brandon ! " she exclaimed,
giving him her hand. "Where do you
come from ? "

Shall I say from going to and fro in
the world ? " asked Albany, seating himself
at her side.

Oh, fie ! — that was M. le Diable, you
know," laughed Adeline ; and Leicester
bit his lip ; he had probably a very hazy
remembrance whether the phrase was to
be found in the Bible or Shakespeare or
one of the " Society " papers. He laughed,
too, of course.

"So it is. I strolled out and wandered
on. By the way, I met Mrs Albany, too,
mounted on that splendid Arab."

*' Hassan, Yes; dear Douglas likes her
to ride his horse. But where was Miss Lee,
for they rode out together ? "

Indeed ! Well, certainly, Mrs Albany
was quite alone, unless you can call that
dog, Angus, a companion."

Horrid brute ! " said her ladyship.
*' They call it one, and talk of it as if it were
a human being. Was she riding home ?
She never leaves Douglas long alone."

Oh, yes ; she said he would be expecting

her.'

"Dear boy !" purred Adeline. "I am so
glad the bright idea occurred to me of getting
him a lady for a secretary and attendant.
And you see how very lucky was my choice ;
if we could have had some one made for the
position, we could hardly have done better."

No ? " — a little query artfully thrown
into the tone of the monosyllable. " But,
pardon me, dear Lady Glen-Luna, you have
honoured me with so much of your friendship
— " He stopped.

Go on, Mr Brandon, please. I count
you indeed a friend — you saved my child's
life. Please go on."

Dear Lady Glen-Luna, I was only going
to ask if it was quite a wise step ; for which
of us," with a half sigh, *' can answer for
our heart ? "

She glanced sharply, furtively at him,
and said, tapping her foot on the grass, —

Of course — that is too true ; but you
see something had to be done, and he could
not endure any one too old or plain or uneducated
about him, on the one hand ; nor,
on the other, was it a position which just
any one of the ordinary stamp would take
or keep. Of course, a young single lady
was not possible, and widows are ten times
worse. I did the best I could by getting a
married woman who is separated from her
husband, and one Bohemian enough not to
care for any idle gossip or chatter of town
or country. Beyond that — why, really, Mr
Brandon, it is impossible to foresee or guard

against every contingency, isn't it ? Oh, I
think my boy's heart is safe enough, and
Mrs Albany's, too. Only," she added, looking
down with a sigh, " if he does care for
her, or should, I fear that he would never
marry at all, even if" — a little choke here
" if he lives, which — which — "
She covered her face, but Albany had
learned what he wanted to know — her
motive in placing a being so attractive as
his wife about the heir of Glen-Luna. Like
a flash the evil nature read the kindred
evil, his wit filling the gap ; there had, he
thought, been some particular marriage
which she had feared, perhaps that very
Hyacinth Lee, who flirted in a kind of
manner alike with himself and Douglas or Dr
Neville. Her acting did not deceive him now,
though he had sometimes before this been
puzzled as to whether the "affection" was
absolutely all false. Bah ! of course ; what
a fool he was ; did not Douglas's life stand
between her daughter and an inheritance.

how could she do ought but hate him and
wish him dead, and chafe that he lingered
on so, with not much apparent intention
either of dying yet ?

Dear Lady Glen-Luna," he said, gently
drawing her hands into his own, " do not
grieve so — try to hope he may be spared !
Heaven ! What should I feel who am the
cause, however innocently, of this terrible
wreck, if it ends fatally ! "

Sometimes," she whispered with a half
sob, "it comes over me so terribly — please
forgive my stupid weakness — and I try to
hope he is better, and then, when I ask Dr
Neville, he looks grave and strange, [and
won't say much " — sobbing a little more
now, — " and only this morning he was so
tired just with that drive that dear Mrs
Albany was quite anxious, and would not
let him move again to-day."

How " dear Mrs Albany " would have
laughed if the Dryads in the wood behind
could have repeated those words to her ;

'<b

how she would have shrugged her shoulders
and said again, ^^ Copious vult decipi, 


Is there, then, in grave earnest, so
little hope 1 " said Albany, after a pause.
'' Douglas does not look to me to be ill ;
you must not meet an evil so half way,
dearest Lady Glen-Luna, and alarm yourself,
perhaps, after all, needlessly. Indeed,
I cannot bear to see yon so distressed."

You are very kind to say so — "

Kind to you, the mother of — " Albany
stopped as if he had said too much, " pardon
me, I never meant to startle you — to be so
abrupt," he added, as she looked up quickly,
^' but I only watched for an opportunity to
speak to you as a gentleman and a man
of honour should. You must have guessed,
seen, that I love your daughter Jessie."

'' I know it," said Adeline, in a low
voice.

"Ay, twenty years older than her
though I am, I have dared to love her !

How could mortal man help it ! And oh.
Lady Glen-Luna, blame me if you will, for
I deserve it, but my love has carried me
beyond myself — I confessed all to her the
night of the ball."

I guessed that, too, Mr Brandon," said
Adeline — her thin, fair hands were twisting
her chain restlessly — " I guessed that."

"And did not banish me?" he said,
eagerly clasping her hand. "You do not,
then — will not — refuse me when I tell you
that her heart is mine ; you will not keep
me in suspense ; you all know what I am,
who I am ! I need hardly say that all I
have is in your hands, that all her father
could ask I will do for my darling — 1 may
call her so ? — and, though I have no title,
no great rank or position, to offer one so
well fitted for both, I have ancient lineage
and a fortune to lay at her feet, which is not
unworthy of a Glen-Luna's daughter.

This, for which Lady Glen-luna had
invited him there, was at her feet. She

turned and looked him full in the face with
those now glittering, serpent eyes of hers,
gazed at him steadily, to be met by gaze as
unflinching, as keen ; if there is a rapport
between the loyal and brave, so is there also
between the base and wicked ; if there is a
fraternity of the pure in heart, so also is
there a brotherhood of Cain ; and in that
intense, in that long, deep look, each of
those two read the other, if not to the full,
at least enough to know that each might
spt the first step on the dangerous ground
between them and meet half way with
clasped hands. The woman felt that her
thought days ago was not at fault ; that
here she had found the instrument she
coveted ; the man knew that she had one
hope, one end, for which she would willingly
make her daughter the price.

*' Clifford Brandon," she said, then, dropping
her eyes with a smile, " there is no
one to whom I would sooner give Jessie
than the man who saved her precious life.

Who weds lier does so for herself alone, for
she will bring; to her husband little of fortune
save her own heart as long as her dear
brother is spared, and that, Heaven knows,
we hope will be long — long — "

The last words fell slowly, sadly, as if the
mere thought of his death was pain. She
added in another tone as she rose, —

But at present let the matter rest between
us three. I had rather, for reasons I
will tell you another time, that neither Sir
Arthur nor Douglas know of this yet."

** One thing, dear Lady Glen-Luna, you
fear opposition," exclaimed Albany, quickly.

I hardly know yet, Clifford. I must
think ; it is time if need be to speak before
you leave. Bah ! you impatient lover," she
added, playfully, *' you will have enough of
your ' lady fare,' wont you ? "

With such a friend at court as you are,
yes," he answered, kissing her hand, and
then placing it on his arm, " and you will
speak to Jessie ? "

Yes, Ah, there ! that is the dressing-bell."


And they quickened their steps as a gong
sounded from the hall.

Was this a brotherhood of Cain ?

PHYSICIAN HEAL THYSELF.

>N the very centre of a rotatory
storm there is, as seamen well
know, practically a dead calm,"
in which they can see the tempest raging
around, whilst themselves actually becalmed.
So it is, for a time at any rate,
with some lives.

Was something of such a comparison
perhaps in Douglas Glen-Luna's thoughts
that afternoon as he lay on his sofa, quite
alone, the book laid aside or dropped from
the hand; the eyes so drooped under the
long heavy lashes, that a casual glance
might have thought he slept, only that,
VOL. III. c

motionless as was the graceful form, still
as were the chiselled features, there was
not in one line of the face the merest
shadow of that repose, that restfulness,
which nearly always belongs to sleep, and
lends to it such beauty ?

Was he now, had he ever been, blind to
the elements raging around him, to the
warfare of which he was the centre ? No,
not from the first, not for one instant ; but
knowing all — as Gabrielle had said to Harford
— he gave no sign.

Not over tired, however, as Adeline believed
— not alone either the whole time,
as Gabrielle thought ; for, as he lay utterly
wrapped in bitter, most painful thought,
the door opened quietly, and Chandos
Neville came in, catching at once, in the
moment he entered, the whole expression
of that attitude and face. He did not
mistake stillness for sleep or repose, and
took note of the start there was at the
sound of his voice.

What ! all alone, mon chers Where is
Mrs Albany "

I made her go out for a couple of hours'
ride," returned Douglas, as he clasped the
physician's hand.

"Hum," said Neville, "and I find you
buried in the very realms of Hades ; I
shall scold Mrs Albany."

Scold Gabrielle ! No, no, Neville !
Please don't say a word to her, I'm all
right ; only I was a fool, and found myself
in Hades before I knew it ; don't tell
her."

I expect she'll find out for herself, my
dear boy. Where is she gone, or with
whom ? A party of them, I suppose — "

No, only with Angus and Hyacinth
Lee ; they took to each other from the
first, those two ; indeed, I think that
Hyacinth thinks there is nothing feminine
like Gabrielle. They may perhaps call at
your digging."

*' At the Cedars !" said Chandos quickly.

with a sudden flush, and then a look of
pain which did not escape his friend, *' my
roof will be, indeed, honoured. Look here,
Glen-Luna, your book has fallen."

He stooped to pick it up, and in so
doing a sheet of paper slipped out from
between the leaves ; not a blank sheet, for
in restoring it Neville caught sight of
an exquisite, winsome face, which was all
in all to him, and the blood flushed suddenly
over his brow.

Thanks," said Douglas, quietly receiving
it, and holding it lightly in his fingers, " I
sketched it this afternoon from memory.
Look again. Like her, isn't it ? "

Why had he sketched this face of all
others? Why had he so naturally called
her Hyacinth ? Had Adeline's cruel scheme
come too late, after all, and was this why —
why — ?

In that moment the eyes of the two men
met, and there was dead stillness.

Then Glen-Luna said, very softly, with

that sweet tenderness that had so much of
the woman in it, —

"Your fear, your thought, just sprung
into life, dear Chandos, may die as quickly.
It is not Hyacinth — I am not any man's
rival — I never shall be now."

Douglas ! "

"Ay, it is not to be, that is all," he
said, in the same quiet way, " but for you
the path is open. Dear Chandos, I knew
that you loved her, and I could not wish
either of you greater happiness."

"Hush. Oh, hush, Douglas." Neville
covered his face for a minute, and his
mellow voice was hoarse — " it is not forme
! What would she herself think of me ?
how, why, should she deem me different to
others who have sought the heiress of Lee's-folly
? — not Hyacinth Lee."

*' Why should she ? " repeated Glen-Luna.
Because she is a woman, with a woman's
heart."

You try to tempt me. Would you,

proudest of proud men, in my place so stoop
your crest for the world — the girl herself
to deem you mercenary, to be rejected
with scorn ! It would be base dishonour to
try and win her. I ask again, would you
doit?"

I'll tell you when the case arises," said
Douglas, coolly, leaning back, " meanwhile
I will try and prove the truth of Buller's
aphorism that ' policy is the art of being
wise for oneself; politics the art of being
wise for others.' The first I apply just now
by silence ; I am in exactly the opposite
position to you, as poor Lady Constance has
tried long ago, and still, I fancy, would give
anything if Hyacinth and I would fall in
love. For the second part of the aphorism,
I will try to be wise for you — "

"Don't, don't Douglas! What is the
use ? I ca?inot~-will not."

Glen-Luna lifted himself on one arm, his
whole face, so mobile, so expressive, changing
to yet more intense earnestness.

'^ You are starting from the very outset,
Chandos, on a false basis ; a total undervaluing
and misunderstanding of your position
and Miss Lee's. She is an heiress with
some six thousand a-year, certainly ; and if
you were quite a young beginner in your
profession, with no fortune at all, or only
a few hundreds, I grant you the question
would be widely different. But you are
five-and-thirty ; you have made a good
position — won a reputation to which each
day or month adds, both in fame and Income,
and it is no blindness of friendship —
no idle prophecy — to say that you will
certainly as years go on take a position that
will rank you with the first of your profession.
This case of mine alone, if it is successful
— as in God's mercy we hope it will
be — will at once give you a step on the
ladder of fame. Hear me out. Hear me
out. You have private means which alone
would place you beyond a wife's fortune ;
you told me so yourself. Don't you, won't

you see that there is not the wide gap
between your position and Hyacinth's as
there would be, perhaps, I grant you, if she
were a rich peer's heiress, or even such an
heiress as Jessie will be at my death ? I
am speaking simply as a man of the world,
and, as you say, as a proud man, and from
that standpoint I say you have every right
to try and win the woman you love, whether
Lady Constance likes it or not. Hyacinth
is not eighteen, but four-and-twenty, and as
independent as she should be. The moral
point of the matter I leave to your dear
sister Rose, for there she is far more certain
to go straight to the right point than you
or I ; women always do, and she in particular
; though I might perhaps suggest the
possibility that the ' winning ' is done
already."

Douglas ! no, no," Neville started, and
dropped his hand, " God forgive me ! I hope
not ! "

I only suggest a possibility, Chandos ;

men and women, after all, are still all human
together, and women are often won unawares
as much as men, only we show it and they
cannot. The heart is heart whether of Adam
or Eve. Whether or not that is so, whether
you have the right for pride's sake to
break her heart let your own or darling
Eose decide. Chandos, forgive me if I have
said too much for even friendship's sake ;
but you know I am such a spoiled fellow
that I believe I think I may say anything."

Neville grasped both those slender hands
in his own.

"You may, indeed," he said hoarsely,
dear Douglas, dear old fellow ! how can I
value enough such a friend as you are % I
will think over all you have said, and if I
can — "

^A, arrested vous la mon brave / " exclaimed
Glen-Luna, " I hate ' ifs ' and will
have none of them just now."

Well, well ; " Neville was smiling now ;
since you have turned physician, and I

patient, I suppose I must obey and leave
the 'if to itself. Now, I must go, but
don't you get back into Hades. Will Mrs
Albany be long now ? "

Glen-Luna glanced at his watch.

She should be back now ; she is sure
not to be very long."

He was right, for even as he spoke the
door was pushed open by Angus, who
bounded in, leaping first on his master,
then on Chandos, and the next minute
Gabrielle followed ; her usually colourless
cheeks flushed a little, her eyes very bright,
almost glittering, as Douglas noticed to
himself.

How do you do, Dr Neville ? Not
going are you ? And how good to take
my deserted post."

You have been riding too hard, Gabrielle,"
said Douglas, " or has Hassan
been — you don't look quite yourself, does
she, Chandos ? "

Bah ! mon ami, your fancy," she

answered, patting his head. " I've ridden
at speed across the park, because I was
late, that is all."

All ! was it ? He looked at her one
second, and dropped his eyes.

Neville held out his hand to her, —

Good-bye, then ; I am off. Good-bye,
Douglas."

And he went out ; while Gabrielle, saying
she would not be long, crossed to her room
to dress for dinner, just as Harford entered
to attend to his master. *

Just about the same time Hyacinth
reached the Hall, and ran off straight to
her mother's room to deliver the silks before
she dressed.

There dear, aren't they just the
thing ? " said she. " I forgot them, so
Gabrielle — Mrs Albany, you know — rode
on with Angus, and I went back with
Marston."

Lady Constance looked over the bright
silks.

Good child ! they're quite right. Where
did you ride to ? "

Oh, I hardly know ! right up to the
lock ; and Mrs Albany, to show me Hassan's
surefootedness, crossed and re-crossed on
the lock-gates without dismounting, and
there's only a rail on one side."

I am afraid that Mrs Albany is rather
fast," said Lady Constance.

Poor dear mammy ! what a joke ! there
was no one but myself and the old lock man
to see her. Then we rode back through
Doring, and called in on sweet Miss Neville "
(mamma frowned), " only the doctor was
out" (mamma cleared up again); *but,"
added Miss Hyacinth, saucily, "I met him
just now in the park as he drove home, and
had quite a chat ; jolly, wasn't it ? "

Poor Lady Constance ! round she swung, —

I think. Hyacinth, that the way you
flirt with Dr Neville is quite beyond bounds,
and will make you the talk of the place."

"Oh, no, mamma! * they've' got Mrs

Albany to cut up, and Jessie and Clifford
Brandon to gossip over — "

** And now Miss Lee to link with a
country doctor," added Lady Constance.

Hyacinth fired up.

** He is a London physician of eminence,
mamma, as you know, and a man of the
highest character, and," relapsing into her
same saucy way again, "the only fellow
here worth flirting with, except Douglas.
I like him immensely. Ta, ta, I must
dress."

And then she ran off to her own room,
locked the door, and, throwing herself on
the bed, burst into a passion of tears. Poor
little Hyacinth.

Troubled WATERS.

Miss NEVILLE, Madam."
Show her in here, James."
Mrs Albany was in her own
sitting-room, and turned at once to meet
her ever welcome visitor.

Dear sister Eose ! How good of you to
come up this afternoon. I had just come
in to look for a book of mine which Mr
Douglas will like when he has finished
what he is reading now. Give me your
bonnet," taking it off as she spoke, and
kissing again the sweet, fair face ; " but
you look — shall I say vexed, sister Rose ?

as if something had roused your indignation."


You are too keen, my dear ; something
has roused it thoroughly, then,
and I think it is time, really, that Lady
Glen-Luna took some notice of it, as she
alone can."

Of what, sister Rose ? What is the
matter ? "

How the poor heart, always on the quivive
for something painful, throbbed as she
spoke.

My dear," said Miss Neville, more disturbed
than ever Gabrielle had yet seen her,
I am more disgusted than I can express
with the wicked, cruel gossip and scandal
about you. I do not think that some of
those women ever talk anything else but
scandal of their neighbours. You smile,
child ; you think that is severe for me to
say ; but, as I walked up here just now,
Mrs Winstanley and Mrs Castaway were
before me in the Doring high road, and

I could hear every word they said in the
clear air."

Dear sister Rose, please don't think or
fret yourself about those silly, idle gossips ;
I do not care one bit."

You would, then, Gabrielle, if you knew
the worst they say — if you heard them just
now."

No more than they have said before, I
dare say," Gabrielle said gently.

Yes, it is." Rose Neville's indignation
was not to be soothed ; her own nature so
recoiled from such base defamation of one of
their own sex. " But you ought to know,
because, if it goes on, it may make your
position here untenable."

Sister Rose, nothing can do ;that save
Douglas Glen-Luna's own dismissal," said
Gabrielle, steadily. "Tell me what they
said, then, if you like; only I think I
know."

"Did you know, then, my dear, that I
heard them say — not as an on dit or a

possibility — but as an absolute fact, that
you were never even married at all ; that
you and Mr Glen-Luna were abroad together
long before his accident, and that
your coming here was an arranged plan
between you % "

Was this all ? They had not said the
truth, but, thank God, so wide, so very
wide of it, that the relief was intense !
She laughed slightly — a scornful laugh —
and began pacing to and fro.

"It is too absurd, too petty and contemptible,
Sister Rose, to be worth notice
or thought, or certainly the troubling of
your dear, tender heart. To you it is
terrible ; it would crush you, perhaps ; you
could not "face the man with whom scandal
linked you so shamefully ; and of me, you
perhaps think — "

I think, my dear," said Miss Neville
firmly, " that Lady Glen-Luna is a very
wicked woman, and had no right, for her
own evil ends, to put a young and beautiful

VOL. III. D

woman in such a position. That is what I
think, child."

The blood flushed to Gabrielle's brow,
then rushed back on her wild, beating-heart,
with almost suffocating force ! Did
Rose guess how cruelly successful that end
had been ?

She stopped her restless walk, then,
before Miss Neville — pressing her hands on
her breast.

'•' Yes, I know that, Sister Eose, few
women would take the place I hold, or be
indifferent to all they say and gossip ; but
I do not care ; 1 have borne too much of
the heavy sea to care for the spray and
froth. Great Heaven ! " she said, with such
a sudden, passionate force in every tone,
every line, as startled Sister Eose, " I have
lived such a life with my husband as no
man of common honour would subject a
mistress to if she were faithful to him.
You are good, Eose, and had a happy home,
and those who loved you : you would never

have done as I have done ; never bet n
tempted as I have been ! You deem me
reckless, very Bohemian, perhaps callous,
even shameless, because I will not give 111
one jot to this scandal about myself and
Douglas Glen-Luna ; but I am neither,
though it is only by God's mercy that I ani
not lost to all womanhood. I am reckless,
I know that, and what wonder ? I never
had one better or happy influence. I never
had a home from the hoar I was sent ^n
orphan of six years old from my motherland
of Italy."

My poor child ! Oh, my poor heart ! "
said Eose ; her eyes were full, her loving
hands outstretched, but the fierce tide had
for once swept over the dykes and swept
on ! Gabrielle shrank back.

You are so good and pure yourself that
I dare to let you see the dark phases of a
life of which you never even dreamed ; 01
such a wild, passionate, undisciplined being
as I am and was — though you shrank in

Library

UNIVERSITY OF illinois

incredulous horror from the glimpse you
caught in that outline report you read.
Look you, Eose, I had no one even to warn
me. I was sent to a distant relative who
had the school, and beyond being taught I
was utterly neglected, or rather only remembered
to be treated with cruelty, harshness,
attempted repression ; the school was
a horrible prison-house to such a wild, high
untamed spirit as mine ; it could not break
me, as it would some, or kill me, but it
made me a mad, desperate, reckless thing,
and when the . first temptation came, under
the guise of love, and care, and escape, 1
met it."

She walked to the end of the room once
more, back, to and fro several times, and
stopped again, locking and unlocking the
slender hands with a passionate restlessness
that spoke a volume of agony in itself.

Your exquisite sympathy unlocks a
floodgate which shows you a mass of wild
seething waters that almost frighten you —

a world of shame and misery so foreign to
anything you have seen or heard of that it
may well appal you."

"A world that would have killed me,"
said Eose, under her breath.

I know that ; it would have crushed
most — killed some. I don't know how I
bore it so long, only that I grew reckless
and desperate on one side, and on the other,
I tell you. Rose, I was afraid of myself. I
tried so hard through all to do my duty —
to be loyal to my vows, however terribly
he broke his ! I had no help, no safeguard,
so young as I was. I was scarcely sixteen
when Leicester Albany crossed my path,
met me as by chance constantly in my
stolen evening walks ; then they found it
out somehow — charged me with meeting
handsome, wild, Leicester Albany, designedly
; dared to lock me in my room !
That maddened me ; it was the last thread
snapped. I escaped out of the window into
the garden — over the wall — out into the

bitter winter night — and there he was.
Well, my fate was sealed that miserable
night ; he told me how he loved me — and
he did, as such men's ' love ' goes, as long
as it lasted — he arranged our flight, and
three mornings later, quite early, in the
cold and darkness, that was surely a type
of my future, I, child, of just sixteen, fled
with the roue. We drove straight to
London— to the church, and by half-past
eight, before even I could be missed, I was
Albany's wife."

Rose drew a breath of intense relief.

"Thank God!" escaped her. "I had
somehow almost feared that you were going
to tell me that he had deceived you after
all with a false marriage."

'' No," said Gabrielle, so sternly, with
such a gleam in her dark eyes as made
gentle Rose shiver. "He knew me too
well to dare even to try that, for I should
have killed him in the hour I knew it.
Then he took me abroad."

But you did not love him, Gabrielle ? "
"Love ! No, never ! He was handsome,
winning. He was the only one who had
been kind to me or cared for me for years
gave me freedom — the world. I liked
him, clung to him as the drowning clings
to the hand that saves ; I was even fond of
him, as we are to one who sets wide prison
doors ; and if he had been different to what
he was — what he showed himself so soon
to be — God knows I would have done all
my duty, and learned to love him. I suppose
I ought to then " — with bitter scorn —
if hearts can be won by all that gold and
a man's passion can give — and his lasted
in full sway quite two years. I was caressed,
petted, envied. Ye Gods ! Envied
by the women, adored by the men ; queen
wherever he took me, — Hung into his
world's vortex from the hour almost that
made me his wife."

She stopped again for a minute, then
went on.

When you read the outline of the story,
Sister Eose, you could not believe, cannot
now realise, a man making his own wife
the bait and attraction to his gaming salons
for his were nothing less — and the more
his fortune went, the more Bohemian and
adventurer he became. Then passion sated
died out, — save for a few flashes at
times ; he was tired of his handsome plaything,
and tossed it about more carelessly
than ever — or rather as time went on —
more deliberately, for he wanted to be rid
of it to any one who would take it."

Gabrielle ! How horrible ! Dear child !
Was the man a devil ? " Eose broke out.

I thought so then, I think so still ! "
the other answered, resuming her walk.
The child was born when I had been
nearly four years married, but it was delicate,
aod it only lived a few months. I
told him I was glad, because God had
spared me such an awful duty."
" Oh, Gabrielle ! "

Yes, I was," she said, with a kind of
fierce agony in her large, dry eyes. '* It
was one night in Monaco, it died in my
arms, on my breast ; and he — my husband
its father, came in, straight up from the
salon de jeu below, with a pack of cards in
his hand. Then I said it, and I meant it,
because I was its heartbroken mother, and
loved it ! God ! how I loved it ! for it
was all I had, but I gave it gladly back to
Paradise.

It was better so for its own sake," said
Rose softly ; " and for yours, too, darling,
for it spared you an awful sin."

Gabrielle's breast heaved, and she stopped
abruptly again before Miss Neville.

Would it have been such a sin, Rose, to
save it from growing up to be like its father ?
Well, well, perhaps you are right. I have
sin enough on my head, for in the misery
of my life of wrongs I was maddened, and
utterly reckless sometimes, and tempted —
oh ! how cruelly tempted — to take some

desperate step. Once — Eose — pure,
good Rose, still pity me if you shrink from
the sin, I was so nearly, so terribly tempted
to fly from him ! not because I loved the
man, though I liked him, for he was better
than all the rest, and really loved me — ay,
if I had been free he would have offered only
marriage. This was in the States, and was
in truth the beginning: of this end. Leicester
was jealous of him, because he knew I liked
him. He had given me a beautiful red
setter, which was always with me, but could
not bear my husband or his friend — the
dastard I shot. Well, one night Leicester
came in and saw me caressing my favourite,
and swore that he would kill it. I dared
him to touch the dog, and Rose ! Rose ! the
next minute he drew a pistol, and shot the
animal at my feet."

The woman was choking ; she was going
through the whole scene again ; and Rose
covered her eyes.

It was well for him," said Gabrielle

after that pause, '' that he got out of my
way the moment the dastard deed was done,
for I — let it pass ! it is one of my blackest
counts against him. It was that evening,
an hour later, the other — the dog's master
came in and found out about the dog. I
was mad, I think, Eose, and when, for the
first time, he forgot all but my wrongs and
misery, I almost — almost fled with him ;
blame me, despise me if you will, Rose, I
deserve it, but before Heaven I can swear
that it was not because then, even in my
heart, I was false to my vow of fidelity, but
simply because I was mad with agony and
my wrongs, and knew not what I did ; and
then, even in the minute I set foot to cross
the threshold, I saw the horror of what I
was doing — and turned back."

My darling child ! my brave, noble
heart ! strong then in temptation after all,
by God's help."

Yes, that is it, dear Rose. I am not
strong, not now," the words fell brokenly

You know what the end was, till I fled
away alone because I was no more safe.
Eose, do you wonder now why I care so
little for these village scandals ? I have
been stabbed so deeply that mere flesh
wounds cannot scathe me. Why should I
care ? The only beings I value will not believe
it of me — you, and your brother, and
and Douglas Glen-Luna." She could not
control the falter, the blood that tinged her
dark cheek, and Eose looked up to meet
her eyes, and suddenly drew Gabrielle to
her.

My poor child ! Oh, my poor child !
I knew it must be ! "

Sweet Eose ! Just that one touch of
womanly love and sympathy broke down
the woman's natural barrier. Gabrielle was
kneeling at her feet, her face buried in her
lap.

Eose ! Eose ! how can I help it !
how can I help it, when he is so helpless,
and his very life is in my hands

» "

Such a wild, passionate burst of grief as,
perhaps, Eose had never yet witnessed, and
would scarcely realise yet. She could only
clasp the quivering form closer, soothing by
loving touch alone, at first, till presently the
smothered sobs grew less, crushed partly by
the strong habit of control and self-suppression
; no need for words, Eose felt — knew
that with the whole force of her impassioned
nature, the whole depth and strength
of her woman's heart, Gabrielle Albany loved
Douglas Glen-Luna once and for ever ; that
for him she could endure more than ever she
had yet borne — all, all but dishonour itself ;
a love in itself so pure and loyal that it could
not lower her — wife though she was — from
her own high moral stand-point, even in
her own eyes, much less in his, if he should
read her secret. How true her brother's
words had been, came now upon Eose with
tenfold force.

It is all darkness, and misery, and
shame," the rich, pathetic voice came after

that long silence, " for, though every moral
obligation is broken — every tie snapped,
long ago — ay, more than you dream of
even now, Eose — still I am wedded wife to
Leicester Albany, and yet — yet — God knows
I have struggled so hard all these awful
years of torture and temptation to be loyal
at least to my own honour — my marriage
vow. I have reddened this right hand in
blood to save it ; I have fought now such a
fierce battle against this last subtle temptation
that mastered my very heart of
woman before even I knew it — and I am
vanquished at last, Eose. It is too late —
too late — God help me ! I love Douglas
Glen-Luna — I — another man's wife ! "

Sister Eose's white hands were laid tenderly
on that bowed, stricken head ; Sister
Eose's dear, loving lips, breathed the simple,
grand prayer of old, as she bent down, —
Lord, lay not this sin to her charge."
And then there was a long, intense
silence.

But, as the incense ascends from God's
Altar, so shall the prayer of the righteous
ascend to the Great White Throne, and be
heard ; for we know that " the smoking
flax will He not quench, and the bruised
reed will He not break."
Then, at last, Gabrielle lifted her face, so
deathly white, but oh, how beautiful ! and
kissed Eose Neville as one might kiss some
holy saint of old ; then rose up.

"Sister, indeed, saint below; if I had
but known you in my childhood, I had
never stood here now — what I am, wronged,
broken-hearted, fallen."

Hush, hush, Gabrielle ! My dear, I
will not hear you. It is not true — no, it
is not, or I would not tell you so ; you are
not fallen, even in thought or heart ; for
you have fought, not yielded, to the sin."

Have I not ? " said the other, sadly ; " I
have fought, truly, and been vanquished.
I have yielded ; I am beaten back ; I have
ceased to fight."

You have not, child, not as long as
you feel such agony and shame, not so
long as the very love itself is pure and
loyal in itself."

Eose, my St Eose, you have lightened
my burden of guilt for me."

Not I, my child," said Eose gently—
and pointed upwards.

THE BEGINNING OF THE END.

ET SO wonderful was this woman's
control over self, so great her
power of, as it were, suppressing
self, that when, a quarter-of-an-hour
later, they passed into the salon, even
Douglas's keen glance could only detect
that the face he loved so well looked weary ;
and Eose herself could scarcely realise that
this was the same woman who had so
recently knelt at her feet in such passionate
agony.

How wicked of Gabrielle to keep you
all to herself so long, dear Sister Rose ! "

VOL. III. E

said Glen-Luna, as she came to his side,
when you know you are my property."

Indeed, sir," said a bright voice at the
door, " I thought my sister was my property,"
and Chandos Neville walked in
smiling.

How jolly to see you so unexpectedly !"
exclaimed Douglas ; " what good luck
brought you, most notable son of aesculapius?"


He came to see me," said Mrs Albany ;
didn't you, Dr Neville ? "

You rather look as if you wanted some
looking after," said he, lightly, but with a
keen glance. " However, at the risk of
being rude, I must tell the truth — if you,
fair Jesuit, ever admit that necessity — I got
home just now, learned that Eose was up
here, and had the — "

Cheek," put in Douglas, gravely.

Precisely ; the cheek to know that I
might come up too."

Good boy," said Gabrielle, laughingly.

isn't he, mon ami ? and I hope you have
no tiresome patients to take you away, for
neither of you are going yet."

Not," added Douglas, " till after dinner
and a long evening. I'm not going down ;
they must get along without me ; you will
stop ? "

If Mrs Albany will excuse my morning
dress."

Mrs Albany will excuse anything if you
will only stay ; and you are the very person
I was wishing to see ; I want to speak to
you a few words, so, if we may be excused
a few minutes, just come with me."

They're going to hatch some dark plot !"
said Douglas, tragically pointing, as the
physician rose and followed Gabrielle to
her own sitting-room. She shut the door
carefully and turned to him.

"You guess, of course," she said, "that
it is about our charge I wish to speak ? "

Yes, Mrs Albany."

** I want you to tell me, if you can, how

far he lias actually gained ; I can see myself
a marvellous change."

There is a marvellous change," said
Neville, " the gain in him has exceeded my
utmost hopes."

For a moment her breast heaved, her lips
quivered with the joy that flashed through
her — the woman who loved him.

Can you yet," she said, "fix in any
degree a time when he will walk at all ? "

I should hardly like to say so much,
dear Mrs Albany ; I think that he will go on
up to a certain point apparently slowly,
and then take, as it were, a sudden step.
When once he is able to walk a little — even
across a room — he will gain rapidly. I hope
to begin that trial in a month or six weeks ;
1 hope to see him like you or me in six or
seven months."

Her hands were locked ; the blood flushed
to her cheek.

Thank God ! then you have no fear of
failure now, Dr Neville ? "

I should, perhaps, be over-confident to
say absolutely no fear, but still, broadly
speaking, I have none. I have steadily
dislodged the evil, and have never once
gone back a step — thanks to your aid too,
and watch against the enemy."

It is of that I wanted to speak. At
present she thinks that he is losing, not
gaining, but when the time comes for him
to walk, she will see at once that she has
been deceived."

Well, let her— what then ? "

I don't think you quite fathom her as
I do yet, Dr Neville," said Gabrielle, slowly,
and laying her hand on his arm, " I have
never spoken out in plain words yet, but if
she sees her intended victim is slipping
away, she will try some quicker, more
desperate measure, as she did once before.
You remember the lift ? "

Yes," he shuddered ; " but she can
hardly do anything, watched as he is by
you and Harford."

An anxious look came into her eyes,
almost a haggard look.

It is a terrible thing, Dr Neville, to live
with such an awful thing as murder in
the very air we breathe — death to one so
precious."

He stood looking at her for a minute.

It is awful," he said slowly, " that
woman is a devil."

Harford's very words," said Gabrielle ;
"look you, Dr Neville, you said long ago
that when he reached a certain point we
must get him abroad to one of the German
spas."

Well, so I say still ; but 1 hardly
thought of attempting to move him so far
till he could walk a little."

Her face changed.

Don't you think he could be moved
before that — in a few weeks ? " — she said,
with something of almost passionate eagerness
in her manner and large eyes — " got
out of this horrible atmosphere of danger ? "

Good Heaven ! Mrs Albany, do you
suspect, know of, anything worse ? " said
Chandos, starting.

I know this," she answered, sternly,
"that she has come across a man in whom
I think it will be strange if she does not
find an accomplice. I will not point him
out until I am more sure, but I think if it
were possible to remove Douglas it would
be well."

If I think it can be done in a few weeks,
Mrs Albany, how do you propose its being
managed ? for your attendance is necessary
as much as mine."

My idea — if you both could, and will —
would be for you and Sister Rose and myself
to go, and, possibly, Sir Arthur ; that
would be best for the sake of all ; but if he
cannot, why surely your sister is enough to
play propriety ; for myself I care nothing."

"A very good plan, Mrs Albany, but
your name must be our care, if it is so far
not yours, as weighed against Douglas's

welfare. He would not hear of any scheme
that could harm you. Well, I will think
over it, and we will talk about it again. It
all depends on how he gets on. We must
run no risk."

God forbid ! — sooner tell Sir Arthur all,"
Gabrielle said under her breath ; " thank
you, Dr Neville, that is all I could ask."

And then they returned to the other
room.

Hands NEVILLE S FAVOURITE FLOWER.

HERE are you going, Hyacinth ?"
said Lady Constance one morning,
meeting her daughter in
the hall, with her broad-brimmed hat on, "I
thought you were going driving with the
rest of us."

Mamma Lee's tone was uneasy. She was
much like a hen with a duckling.

I am not going with them, mammy
mine. My dear, beautiful Mrs Albany told
me I might come with her and Mr Glen-luna
; and of course her invitation is his."

Lady Constance's brow cleared ; and the
saucy girl added, —

He and I are such capital friends, he is
such a dear fellow. Ta-ta, they're waiting
for me, I dare say, by the west wing."

And away she danced.

Mrs Albany was slowly pushing the
elegant chair across the lawn when Hyacinth
caught sight of them, and her tongue
began at once.

It's so awfully good of you to let me
come with you both. Where are you going ? "

I think down to our favourite nook
near the river, " answered Gabrielle ; " what
say you, mon ami f "

My dear, yours and Miss Lee's pleasure
is mine," was the instant reply ; "by the
way, Gabrielle, did not Harford say he
thought he would have time to ride over
to see his sister, Mrs Be van, while we were
out here ? "

Yes ; the poor thing does not get on
very fast ; low fever is a tiresome, lingering
thing."

Who is attending her ? " asked Hyacinth.

** Oh, Dr Neville, of course, " said Douglas
in fact, he had sent him himself, as
Hyacinth guessed. She walked on in
silence, thinking, thinking — of him, and
wishing — little goose — that she had not got
six thousand a-year. Then she chattered
gaily again ; and when they stopped at the
same little nook in which Chandos had once
found them she declared she could not sit
still just yet.

** I'll go and try to find a lot of wildflowers
and ferns ; do you admire ferns, Mr
Glen-Luna ? "

*'I admire anything in your fair hands,
Miss Lee."

What a humbug you are ; isn't he,
Gabrielle ? "

My dear, wee can't get along in the world
without humbug," said Mrs Albany, amused

fie ! you are as bad as he is. I
know you both hold shocking sentiments, "
laughed Hyacinth. "I should like to put
you in the fabled chair of truth."

The most detestable, horrible idea ever
devised for torture," said Douglas, with
wicked viciousness ; ''I could not wish
worse to my bitterest enemy."

** Hear, hear ! " added Mrs Albany, '' who
could stand such a test ? "

Well, no one, I suppose. Now I'm off.
Are you coming, Angus, or have your master
and mistress greater attractions than a race ?''

Angus got up, wagged his tail, put his
handsome head on one side as if he were
weighing the matter, looked up at his
master, and whined softly.

Poor Angus, your loving, canine heart is
torn ; well, go and take care of her, boy ;
she is not going far off."

And Angus bounded off after Hyacinth Lee.

She knew where to look for ferns, and
made for the wood about half-a-mile off,
where she soon filled her hands with the
delicate, feathery-looking leaves.

There, Angus, " she said at length,
we'll rest — or I shall — on this huge tree-bough

for a few minutes before we return
to your master," suiting the action to the
word, and perfectly unaware what an exquisite
picture she made sitting there, with
the rich background of green foliage and
red-brown tints on the trees — " what's the
matter, Angus ? "

The collie had pricked up his ears at
the sound he caught — a light footstep
amongst the fallen leaves ; and he
jumped up to meet the intruder, whoever
he was.

Why you, Angus ; not alone then,
surely, old fellow ? "

A voice that made the blood rush over
the girl's cheek and brow, and her heart
beat wildly with such a tumult of feelings
that she could not even move. The next
moment the tall form of Chandos Neville
came out.

"Miss Lee ! you alone, out here ! "

Do what she would, the hand he clasped
for one moment would tremble, and the

colour come and go in her fair, soft face, ashe
sat down at her side.

I came out with Mr Glen-Luna and
Mrs Albany," she said ; " were you going
up to see them, Dr Neville ? "

I was, but I thought I would go round
by the dell to see if they were there."

They are there ; I came to look for
ferns, and see what a lot I have got ; aren't
they lovely, Dr Neville ? "

Very ; but still, the loveliest fern does
not compare to a flower."

That is true, especially," she added,
looking up for a moment with a smile,
with what I suppose is your favourite
flower, since you have such a rare specimen
at your house."

Have I, Miss Lee ? what is that ? "

You know quite well," said she, with a
bad attempt at her usual pretty, saucy ease
of manner, — " a rose, of course."

How sweet was the smile that lighted up
his hazel eyes; but he answered quietly, and

not seeming to notice a restless movement
of hers to go.

A most precious rose, indeed — but still,
your guess is not quite right, I have a still
greater favourite in the floral world."

Have you ? " The blue eyes opened
wide in real wonder." " You told Mrs
Albany that roses were your favourites."

Did I ? some weeks ago, then. Guess
if you can — only " — looking down with an
odd smile, " I warn you it is a very rare
flower."

Something tropic, then — hothouse ? "

"No, a simple flower, after all — try again."

I'm a bad hand at guessing anything,
Dr Neville ; you'll have to tell me, I
suspect," said Hyacinth, with another movement.


May I tell you ? "

She tried to answer carelessly.

Yes, if you like ; what is it, then ? "

Only — a — hyacinth."

A moment's pause, one hurried, fleeting

look, and Hyacinth was clasped passionately
to her lover s breast.

My Hyacinth ! my darling ! can such
happiness be mine ? "

Happy, trembling little flower ; how she
clung to him, almost weeping ; how all
within and without was one blaze of glorious
sunshine now.

He spoke presently, drawing her closer
still.

I have been such a coward, darling, I
have been so afraid, so dreading that you
would think me base and mercenary. I
had so little in comparison to lay at your
feet, save the heart you won so soon."

That you made yourself and me miserable,
you bad, stupid fellow ! " whispered
the dear, sweet voice. "How could you?
you deserve to be punished. I wish the
horrid gold was all at the bottom of the
sea. Oh, Chandos ! Chandos ! would you
really have gone away and left your
favourite flower for that ? "

No, no ! Hyacinth, dearest heart, forgive
me that I was coward so long ; you
can understand, feel how I felt, darling."

"Yes— quite."

And then, Hyacinth, I was puzzled. I
almost feared once — quite at first — that you
liked Clifford Brandon."

I detest him ! " interrupted Hyacinth
from her resting-place. " I flirted with
him to tease Jessie."

*then I thought that there had be
something between you and Douglas."

You very ingenious self tormentor ; he
and I have had many a laugh in the old
time about poor mamma's hopes, and the
stepmother's fear of me, so we squared it
between us, and have been first-rate friends.
Try more confessions, Dr Neville," lifting
her bright face with such a saucy look, that
Chandos, as any lover would, bent down
and kissed it.

Is not that enough ? It only remains
for me to ask your mother — "

VOL. III. F

Hyacinth broke into a merry, rippling
laugh.

Poor mammy mine ! what will she say
to a professional man, when she destined
poor me for a coronet at least ? She will
make a terrible fuss, and refuse ever to seeme
again if I don't give in, and hold out
a month or two, perhaps. Poor, dear old
pet ! her bark is much worse than her
bite."

Neville could not help laughing, though,
man-like, in his secret heart he dreaded
facing Mamma Lee's fire more than a sixty-pound
gun. Men always do dread a
feminine tongue, and no wonder either ; fora
woman in her temper can sting a man to
the very quick, and he, as a gentleman, has
no retort.

Miss Hyacinth, certainly, never for one
moment contemplated the least giving in to
maternal ambition — if that grand word can
be used to such petty, small aspiring as a
fine match for one's daughter.

J

How the time passed neither of them
could have reckoned ; but Mrs Albany had
just remarked to Douglas that she wondered
where Hyacinth was, when lo !
Angus bounded joyously up, and the physician
and his companion came up.

It needed but a glance between them,
from one to the other, and then Hyacinth's
crimson, happy face was hidden on Gabrielle's
shoulder, and the close clasp of the
two men told more than language. And fiji
the noble heart of the younger man there
was not one pang, one bitter thought that
his own heart's story was so dark, so helpless,
so weighted with misery.

Douglas was the first to speak, and his
first words were said with his most wicked
look.

"Poor Lady Constance."

She cannot hold out long," said Mrs
Albany, passing her beautiful hand caressingly
over the fair head, still nestling
against her, as Hyacinth knelt beside her.

A loving woman finds heaven or hell
The day she is made a bride.'

God make yours all paradise."

Ay, in all the opposite to her own
miserable marriage — a hell, indeed, such as
few tread.

^S5^^

GABRIELLE MAKES A BOLD MOVE.

^"^^HE Salton' departure was now
fixed for the beginning of next
week, Percy Rosslyn's for a day
or two later, and Lady Glen-Luna deemed
it time to speak to Sir Arthur about the
offer made to her daughter by Clifford
Brandon. From her husband this woman
anticipated nothing but ready and delighted
consent, if only he was assured that '' his
little witch's " affections were involved, and
Brandon sufficiently well-off to be a suitable
parti for his daughter. So far, she had
reckoned rightly enough, but her ladyship
was somewhat taken aback, and both vexed

and vaguely uneasy when Sir Arthur ended
his general assent and an eulogium of Clifford
Brandon by saying that before seeing
him to give formal assent to an engagement,
he would just step up and see what
his son thought of it. Adeline dared not
oppose such a reasonable wish, nor did it
suit her cue to show the least distrust of
Douglas, the more so because — especially
since the accident — the old man had been
more wrapped up in his son, and a great
part of her own influence had, from the first,
depended on her feigned affection for this
only son.

Very well, dear," she said sweetly,
only remember that if you refuse, it will
break the poor child's heart."

That was one afternoon, and Sir Arthur,
very rightly thinking that no time was
like the present, went off at once to the west
wing to see if his son was in — most likely
so, as the day was dull and cloudy — and,
as he stepped up the wide, shallow-stepped

stone staircase to his son's apartments, he
heard the rich, full tones of the Broadsword
under a skilled hand — and, after all,
what pianos surpass those matchless grands
with which we are so familiar ?

At his tap Herself's exquisite etude
stopped, and Mrs Albany's voice said, —
Come in."

Douglas was lying on the sofa, his beautiful
head resting on his hand, listening in
dreamy happiness to the music, and perhaps
weaving round the pianiste another
dream as visionary as dangerous and hopeless.


Dear father ! you here ! " he said, with
a quick flush of pleasure, half starting up.

"Don't you move, my boy; can you
spare the a few minutes ? Don't you go,
Mrs Albany, but just you take your own
low chair there."

She smiled, drew forward a chair for the
baronet near his son, and obeyed his order
with a heart that throbbed heavily — a

suspicion of his errand had instantly flashed
across the mind of Albany's wife.

** There, that's right, my dear ; you're in
your right place. Why should you go
either? for I dare swear Douglas has no
secrets from you now, and I am sure I have
not. I don't count you a stranger, you
know, for you quite belong to Douglas
now."

"You are very kind. Sir Arthur."

She leaned back a little, stifling a sigh,
and Sir Arthur turned to his son.

I wanted just to speak to you, Douglas,
about what I suppose will be no news exactly
to either of you two, for you must have
seen it all these weeks."

What is that, father ? "

Why, that little puss of a sister of
yours," said the baronet, evidently much
delighted, "like all the rest — eh, Mrs
Albany ? — gone and fallen in love. Adeline
has just been speaking to me about it.
Clifford Brandon has asked her hand, but

I would not speak to him till I had seen
you — as my only sdn should, I think, have
some voice in his sister's marriage."

Thank you, father. I had expected
it would end in an offer from him," said
Douglas quietly, but the quick contraction
of the brow and compression of the lips
told its tale to the woman at his side,
though his father read only the quiet tone,
and read that wrongly.

"Ah, then, you have no objection. /
like him very much, and I see no reason
why I should not accept him ; he's a gentleman
of family — a Brandon of shire ; he

is well off, and offers to make any settlement
I like."

Gabrielle set her teeth like a vice.
Heaven! must she stand by and not denounce
this villany — must she still suffer and bear,
and feel herself weighed down with agony ?
Yes, still, still, for his sake by whom she
sat, over whom she watched, for whose sake
her husband — the world — might brand her ;

yes, woman's love could face even that.
But Douglas's lips cul-led, and he lifted
himself quickly.

As to all that, father, you and Adeline
were, I presume, well assured, before you
asked Brandon here at all. I have no
actual objection to make, because I have
no right to do so without very good tangible
grounds ; but, if you ask me if I like
the man, or any such marriage, I can't
deceive you, father. I do not like him,
though I suppose no one here, except Gabrielle,
guessed or knew that ; he is a guest
under your roof, voila tour

But, my dear boy ! " exclaimed Sir
Arthur, aghast, " what have you to say
against him, except, perhaps, that one
would have wished a younger suitor ? "

Dear father, forgive me ! It grieves
me to pain you since your and Adeline's
mind are evidently made up ; but, for myself,
be his antecedents and fortune what
they may, I do not like or trust the man

himself ; it may be unreasonable, or perhaps
mistaken, but there it is, and I can't alter
my feelings, or think the less that he is —
certainly has been — a roue, however it may
wound you all to say it. He must not
expect me to be cordial — only courteous —
as the lover and husband of Jessie."

Sir Arthur sat gazing in his son's handsome
face for a minute, then from him to
Mrs Albany, and said, abruptly, —

And what do you think of Clifford
Brandon, Mrs Albany ? "

She started — flushed — grew deadly pale
again ; and answered, with a quickness that
was almost hurried.

Pardon me, Sir Arthur, but — in my
position, I have no right to speak — my
opinion is nothing ; I am only your son's
paid attendant."

Vein, vein, Gabrielle ! " said Douglas,
under his breath, '' um meinetwillen /"

Her hand trembled, the tears came into
her eyes — " for his sake ! " — what stronger

plea could he have used to arrest the words
that so pained him ?

'each ! — forgive me," she whispered in the
same language, and turned to Sir Arthur.

I should not have answered you so,
dear Sir Arthur, since you honour me by
asking my opinion at all ; it goes entirely,
then, with your son's, and did from the
first ; a woman's reason you will say."

Ha, ha ; I think I must say the same
of Douglas, too, then," said Sir Arthur,
laughing, though rather vexed at finding
his son disagree with him, " it's lucky for
Brandon that Jessie is of such an opposite
mind."

She looked down, biting her lip. Douglas
asked, as his father rose, —

You mean to accept him, then, father ?"

"Well, my dear boy, you see, I can
hardly reasonably refuse him."

He knows, of course," said Douglas,
carelessly, "that at my death Jessie is
heiress of Glen-Luna."

Douglas ! don't speak of your death ! "
exclaimed his father, " I won't hear it boy !
Do you let him talk like that, Mrs
Albany?"

Dear father ! " the young man stretched
out his hand and clasped his father's, " forgive
me ! I did not mean that I am worse,
or likely to die, but only literally what I
said ; and Brandon may not be as disinterested
as you think."

I think you misjudge him, indeed, deer
boy ; he could hardly, besides, be so stupid
as to reckon on such a remote contingency
as—"

Remote, father ! with only my one life
between — "

Only one," repeated Sir Arthur, with the
sharpness that springs from sharp pain, " I
hope to live to call a wife of yours daughter,
and hold a son of yours in my old arms."

** Hush, oh hush ! Oh, father, don't hope
that ! How can it ever be ? "

A bitter, passionate cry, wrung forth by

the sharp agony of that double stab, only-one
of which the father read — both of
which the woman who loved him felt,
knew too well — yet woman-like his moment
of weakness was her strength, fiercely as
the dagger quivered in her own heart ; but
she spoke no word to him, only laid her
soft hand on his, as he buried his face in
the cushions, letting it rest there; her words
were to his father, —

You remember the Martyr King Charles'
favourite motto, ' Dum spiro, speroJ We
have been thinking of the possibility of
getting him abroad to one of the German
spas ; ah, mon ami, don't start so, nor you,
dear Sir Arthur, look so alarmed ; it is
not because he is worse, or we could not
dream of moving him."

Child, then ! tell me the truth ; he is
better ! Douglas ! "

He cannot answer you as I can. Sir
Arthur," said Grabrielle firmly ; and Douglas
neither moved nor spoke. " Dr Neville and

I think his general strength better ; these
apartments, too, want doing-up differently ;
he is weary of the sameness ; and, therefore
if in a few weeks we shall find it possible,
we shall propose arranging, as I said, a
journey to Germany, Dr and Miss Neville
accompanying us." ,

'' My dear girl ! " — the old baronet's voice
was quite husky — " anything you can wish
or devise for my dear boy's welfare shall
be done ; what you wish done must Ije
right ; you are so clever, so noble, so devoted—"


Hush, don't, don't ! " she said hurriedly,
I have only tried to do my duty."

Tried I Well, well, if it pain you, I
will say no more ; but Douglas knows better
than I do how much we owe to you."

God knows you are right, father."

With these words Douglas lifted his face
once more ; he had not dared till now to
trust himself, so deep was the wild heart's
agony, so fierce its self warfare.

There was a moment's silence, and Sir
Arthur rose up to go. Then Gabrielle said
quietly,—

"Do not repeat to anyone, Sir Arthur,
one word about what I have said ; I had
rather not, until we have settled it more
certainly. Will you remember ? "

"Your wish is law, my dear; isn't it,
Douglas?"

It is my law," he answered, with a
grave smile ; and his father, saying that
he must see Clifford Brandon, took leave.

Douglas lay quite silent until the retreating
steps had died away, and then he
touched Mrs Albany.

Gabrielle, is this scheme you spoke of
only a part of your line of action, or a
reality ? "

Both," she said, steadily meeting those
glowing, deep, dark eyes.

You know that I know all ? "

All ! Although she knew exactly what
his *all" comprehended, the mere thought,

the very form of words, made her shiver
from head to foot ; and yet what would
not that miserable woman have given to
kneel down at his feet and tell him really —
all — all ; but for his sake she must bear it still
alone — quite alone. She answered only, —

'eyes, I know that. You would like to
go, I know you would, as a prisoner would
leap at escape."

You are right, Gabrielle, but for one
thing, which compels me for once to interfere
with your plans."

What do you mean, mon ami ? "

"Forgive me, dear Gabrielle, if I must
wound you — but your honour, your name
is as precious to me as my own — a thousand
times more so than my worthless life, or
even recovery."

Hush, for pity's sake ! " She put her
hand hurriedly on his lips, " you cannot —
do not — know all the — the danger that is
in the very air here. My honour ! my
name ! Good heaven ! it is only under
VOL. m. G

your roof that it has been cared for, protected,
and neither will be harmed under
that protection whether here or in Germany ;
I am married, your attendant, secretary, we
travel with your physician and his sister —
a middle-aged woman — if possible, too, we
intend to get your father to go with us and
remain a month — "

Ah, if that is done, Gabrielle — "

'* Stay, Mr Douglas ; it cannot, shall not,
depend on that," she interrupted, more in
her usual manner ; " you have been so good
and obedient all through, I cannot hear of
any disobedience and rebellion now, when
more than ever meek obedience is necessary.
Will you promise, and still be my own good
boy, or must I reserve the battle until Dr
Neville comes ? "

He kissed her hand, and laughed a little,
shaking his head.

I will let it rest, dearest of autocrats,
till the question is actually on the tapis.
Will that do ? "

It must, I suppose ; but remember /
shall not yield."

Go and play me that Herself etude
which was interrupted," said Douglas,
smiling, adding in a pretended aside, " il
faut reculer pour mieux saucers'

TARQUIN S LESSON STILL STANDS.

IR ARTHUR GLEN-LUNA's interview
with his son and Gabrielle
Albany left behind a
vague, uncomfortable kind of feeling about
his daughter's suitor, a feeling too vague
and shadowy for him at any rate, to analyse
in the remotest degree, but which
resolved itself so far into the somewhat
vexed words, " I wish Douglas had not
said what he did ; I had rather fifty times
that he had liked the marriage and the
man, and Mrs Albany. Ah, how I wish
that she were a widow, and Douglas
would — "

But there the dressing-bell for dinner
rang;, and the baronet's train of thought
was interrupted.

Still he and his wife liked Clifford Brandon,
and Jessie was in love with him;
and they had allowed the matter to go too
far to draw back with honour, just for no
other reason than Douglas's dislike to the
man; for admittedly no more tangible
reason could be given. Douglas, of course,
knew well enough that, regarding her
daughter, Adeline's influence would probably
outweigh his objection, and so he
had tacitly declined a contest in which he
was almost certain of defeat. That Jessie's
probable heirship was the man's real motive,
he felt as sure as the woman at his side,,
who knew it too well. However deeper
and further his suspicions went, he never
even hinted them even to Gabrielle ; she
might guess, read them ; but he would not
add one iota to the pain and deadly anxiety
of hers and Harford's watch ; of hers

more than all — his darling, his " first — last
love."

So Mr Clifford Brandon was accepted,
and an engagement with Jessie Glen-Luna
understood; so far, then, Leicester Albany
had gained one — if not the most important
— step in his desperate scheme — he had
secured the prize, and in penetrating Adeline's
secret, gained, as she had, the accomplice
he needed as much as she did. No
actual word — certainly no word that could
shock the ear of either — had passed their
lips, and yet each perfectly understood the
other. The obstacle to the fortune, which
both coveted, must be swept away ; Jessie's
hand, so endowed, was the price and reward.

Like draws like," it is said, and that
applies to evil every whit as much as to
good : two bad natures will gravitate towards
each other as unerringly as two high-toned
people.

When that evening, out in the gardens,
Albany asked her if she and " his darling

Jessie" would ^^ on an early period to
make him the happiest of men, the little
dainty lady at his side sighed, glanced off
towards the west wing, and said sadly, —

Indeed, Clifford, I hardly know what to
say about it until our hopes and fears about
our dear Douglas are more certain, for good
or — or bad. Sometimes, of late, I have
almost hoped that he was really getting
stronger under Mrs Albany's care, and then
she is forced to crush one by reporting him
not so well. If in a few weeks all these
miserable doubts and fears are decided" —
she dropped the words slowly as she bent
over a rose-bush — " we can make some
arrangement, you know. There ! provoking
! Do, Clifford, gather me that topmost
rose," she added, interrupting herself ; " it
is faded, and disfigures the tree."

Leicester Albany smiled as he obeyed —
such a smile — and, bending low as he gave
it to her, said, —

*' Dear Lady Glen-Luna, I am always at

your service, even to such a trifle as removing
a poor faded flower."

*' Thank you." She looked in his face
and laughed — her hard, mirthless laugh —
then threw the rose on the grass, and set
her foot upon it, with a flash in the cold,
grey-blue eyes that made them glitter like
steel.

Tarquin, when he cut of the heads ofi" the
tallest poppies, left a lesson, for good or forbad,
which stands for all time.

And while one suitor was accepted, another,
under the same roof, was rejected,
which was only what Neville had expected,
and it in nowise disturbed his equanimity.
His mind once made up to a certain end,
once convinced that that end was right and
honourable, and he was firm as a rock.

Lady Constance simply declined " his
proposal for her daughter's hand ; she had
other views for her, and they must part ; "
which, delivered to a man of thirty-five,
and a woman of four-and-twenty, struck

Chandos as so amusing that he almost
smiled as he very courteously, but steadily,
replied that that was impossible. He held
himself bound, though Hyacinth he considered
free, but that they would wait a
few months in the hope of her (Lady Constance)
changing her mind on the subject.
He was, he said — and this was a part of
an agreed-upon plan in Gabrielle's game of
chess — going to Germany with a patient
shortly, he believed, and might, perhaps,
be absent six or eight months ; but whenever
he returned, he hoped that she would
rescind her present refusal. At present,
when they met in the house by chance, it
would be as friends, so far as others were
concerned. He declined to give any promise
not to write to Hyacinth, or see her ;
on the contrary, he said he should do both
occasionally.

With that he withdrew, leaving Lady
Constance feeling very dum foundered, and
with a very uncomfortable sense that she

would be beaten. She tried speaking to
her daughter, but in vain. Miss Hyacinth
opened her blue eyes, laughed, and clapped
her hands, declaring that " Chandos was the
dearest fellow in the world, and had behaved
exactly as she knew he would. I
told you, mamma, that I should marry
some professional man, and choose for myself;
and you won't say no in the end,
sweetest mammy mine, I know."

My dear," said mamma, folding her
hands, " I cannot sanction a suitor whose
difference of fortune — "

Now, mamma, not a word, please, dear,
about the detestable money, or I vow I'll
make it all over to charities, or Mrs Albany,
or—"

Don't be absurd. Hyacinth, when Lee's
Folly is entailed. And I don't think" —
severely — 'that Mrs Leicester Albany is,
after all, the best companion for you ; she
is so very independent, and has such a will
of her own."

She's a jewel — a darling ! " said Hyacinth
; " and you shan't abuse her, dear,
any more than Chandos."

Chandos, indeed ! " said her ladyship
indignantly. "Don't let me hear that
again, Hyacinth, I beg you."

Whereat Hyacinth turned a 'pirouette
made a pretty moue, and became scarce.
She was not a bit unhappy — not she !
She knew that " Mamma Lee," as wicked
Douglas called her, would have to give in
in the end. She only ran off to look for
Gabrielle, and tell her all about this, and
Jessie's engagement to Clifford Brandon.

So another week or ten days passed, outwardly
very quietly, very unmarked ; but
it was the stillness of the volcano, the calm
before the storm. On all sides danger was
thickening around Douglas and the self-devoted
woman whose very life was so
deeply, so strangely interwoven with his
for weal or woe.

But so well had Gabrielle Albany played

her game, so well had her assistants, passive
and active, aided her, that up to this time,
when to remove Douglas abroad it became
necessary to throw out, as it were, an 
hint of such a change. Lady
Glen-Luna had had absolutely no suspicion
that the beautiful woman she had introduced
with so cruel a purpose was her antagonist,
no suspicion that she was so completely read
by her ; up till now she had no idea that
Dr Neville's attendance was for anything
beyond what had been given out — the injury
done by the accident to the lift ; up till
now she had been absolutely duped by her
clever antagonist into the full persuasion
that Douglas was worse ; a belief, which
had had exactly the result Gabrielle had
foreseen and intended ; it had kept AdeHne
from again running the risk of any overt,
and therefore more or less dangerous, means,
as long as there was such (apparent) almost
certainty of nature saving her the trouble.
Now, even when she first heard from Lady

Constance the words designedly uttered by
Chandos Neville, that he was soon, perhaps,
going abroad with a patient, her first thought
was one of triumph — " that Douglas was so
much worse, so hopelessly sinking, that, asa
last desperate step, they were thinking
of attempting to move him." Yet this idea
hardly coincided with appearances, and she
was puzzled ; perhaps it was not, after all,
Douglas to whom the physician had alluded ;
perhaps he had tried all he could, failed,*
of course, like others, and given up the
case in despair.

'* I must find out," she muttered, clenching
her hands ; " leave this house alive he
never shall. I must speak to Clifford, for
his interest and mine are one."

Ay, Lady Glen-Luna, the more so that
he has the strongest possible reason for not
losing sight of his wife just now, or Douglas
either.

That evening she found an opportunity
to speak to Albany out on the terrace,

while the rest were in the drawing-room.


Can it be possible, Clifford," she said,
after telling him of Neville's remark, " that
he could mean poor dear Douglas ; surely,
Dr Neville and Mrs Albany cannot be mad
enough to dream of removing him across
sea actually in his precarious state ; " the
woman still kept up the shallow outward
mask of words to her accomplice. " I must
speak to his father, he must not — shall not
—allow it, Clifford ! "

Take care how you oppose," said Albany,
laying his hand on her arm ; " may I say
what I think—"

Go on, Clifford. I know you care for
Douglas's welfare as much as I do."

Quite," said he dryly ; " well, I think,
then, that you have never really gauged
Mrs Albany ; or, gaining one important
point, you have, perhaps, missed another."

'* How ? What do you mean ? " and
Adeline started. Albany glanced down at

her, with an odd sort of sneer creeping over
his mouth, as he said slowly, —

She is a splendid chess player, Lady
Glen-Luna. I was watching you both the
other night when you challenged her.
Lookers on, you know, see most of the
game ; and her play was a masterpiece.
She saw your defect at once, wonderfully
clever as your plan was ; you, in your
intentness on your own plan and reliance
on your own forces, failed to take true count*
of hers, while she never for one moment,
in carrying out her plan, lost sight of
yours. I don't think she made one move
which did not at once form her own play
and divert yours and your suspicions into
a wrong channel. She feigned just enough
of frank unsuspiciousness to veil the superb
subtlety it covered ; and, just when your
splendid coup de main had placed her queen
and victory in your grasp, in one more
move, lo 1 a quiet little knight moved his
cross-move, and you were check-mated in

the moment of triumph. That woman is a
splendid strategist ; and what is life but
one vast game of chess ? "

Adeline stopped dead, and stood looking
blankly at him, her fingers clenching
and unclenching convulsively, her eyes
glittering.

Do you mean," she said, and her voice
was more hard and metallic than ever,
that she has suspected — "

Best ga — seen your cards and kept her
own in her hands " (how little she dreamed
that he spoke from such intimate knowledge).
"It is now for you to make sure
whether I am right or wrong ; make her
throw out at least some of her cards ; the
mistake you have made may be as fatal as
your game of chess."

She wrenched a spray vindictively from
a young tree near, tore it in half, and flung
it on the ground.

"That may go to keep the faded rose
company still."

A savage triumph flashed up into the
man's eyes, and he drew a quick, hard
breath — this — this would be freedom, indeed,
if only they could match that strategy
and boldness which he had been forced to
admit and admire. Ah, if !

"Look you, Adeline," he said, bending
down his tall form, and for the first time
dropping her title, " ask Sir Arthur if he
has heard of any idea of taking his son
away in his critical state — for, of course,
Neville's remark was meant to be repeated
then speak of the matter to Douglas, and
be careful how you oppose it, if he has
really made up his mind ; rather, then,
take it up and osier to go abroad with
them ; if that is negatived, it will show
that I am right, as to her — ay, and his
suspicions ; but remember that he can,
I am certain, act as well as she can.
Up to the present time it is no use, I
am afraid, to blink the fact that Mrs
Albany has mastered the situation as far
VOL. m. H

as you are concerned ; now it is for us to
turn the tables."

Clifford, you have thrown a bombshell
at my feet ! " said Adeline Glen-Luna, " but
the game is worth the candle, and it will go
hard but I will win it. They shall not go
abroad if that is really their plan. Come
back now to the others. I'll challenge her
to no more play games of chess, but only
play out the real one, even though it be on
dangerous ground."

A FAITHFUL FRIEND.

OR the devoted woman, to whose
very heart's core Douglas's helplessness
had at once and with
such irresistible force appealed, this terrible
and unexpected advent of her husband on
the battle ground had complicated her
tactics and deepened the danger and difficulties
to an extent that might well have
appalled even her bold spirit, for too well
she knew the desperate, utterly reckless
man with whom she had now to deal as
well as Adeline — in herself no despicable
or scrupulous an enemy, as that lift accident
had proved too surely.

She had those two, separately and as
accomplices, to battle ; she must arrest the
soi-disant marriage, yet without the very
means of doing so effectually, and in the
face of the terrible retaliation which would
be made. She was stemming an overwhelming
tide single-handed, fighting unaided
against odds ; and her only hope, to
which she bent her whole power, was to
get Douglas out of the atmosphere of
destruction which surrounded him within
reach of those two ; then the esclandre —
the tide against herself, might crash over
her. She alone knew to the full the real
force of the enemy ; even Douglas had no
idea of the terrible interest against both
his and her own life — that she was as
much the one obstacle in the path of a
ruthless man as he was in that of an
equally hardened woman. She felt like one
in the dark, with danger all around, knowing
not whence the next blow would come,
or when it would fall. She dared not tell

Douglas, even if he could have been of use ;
the sense of his own helplessness was maddening
enough to the man as it was ; her
part was to ward from him, not add to,
anything that could fret or pain him, or
rouse his deepest, wildest passions. All he
knew, his very love for her, was torture
enough, she knew by her own heart, and
beyond all, she dreaded lest the thin veil
between their two hearts should be torn
down jpev saltem. She had foreseen that
the climax must come, and she be obliged to
show some of her cards, whenever the time
came that he was able to bear the removal
abroad ; but this marriage had hastened
matters terribly. Is it not too often so iu
warfare ?

God keep you and rest you, dear
Gabrielle," Douglas had said only that very
night when they parted. Rest ! how could
she ? She did not even try, now that fora
brief space she could drop the self-contained
control she dared not cast aside by

day ; and to and fro, to and fro her
chamber she walked, hearing Harford talking
to his master in his dressing-room
across the corridor, answered by the soft
tones of music she had learned to love so
well. What wonder that she wrung those
delicate hands in voiceless agony, and took
no heed of how the night-watch crept on,
scarce knew even when the soft murmur
of those voices ceased ; what wonder that
she started with a sudden, wild flash of
fear and passionate indignation, when presently
there came a light tap at the inside
door opening into her sitting-room — what
if her husband had dared —

*' Mrs Albany, are you undressed yet ? "
William Harford's true, earnest voice !
The revulsion from dread to relief was so
intense that she almost staggered dizzily ;
the next moment she had opened the
door, colourless as marble, and faced the
courier.

Mrs Albany ! do you know how you

look ? " the man said under his breath, as
the light from the lamp she held fell on
her face.

He came right into the room.

Never mind me — your knock startled
me a little ; what is the matter, Harford ? "

He took the lamp from her hand, and set
it on the table as he answered, —

Nothing with the master, madam, but
I wanted to speak to you without his knowing
it, at once, and so I ventured to steal inhere
when I left him. Mrs Albany, it is
about this Mr Brandon I want to speak."

Gabrielle put one hand suddenly on the
back of a chair near her —

Go on," she said, " what of him ? — you
know you can say what you like to me
Harford."

I know — thank you ; neither you nor
the master, then, like him or this marriage
any better than I do."

Like him or — no."

I hardly know, ma'am," said the courier.

looking down for a minute, " why I first
felt somehow suspicious of him — quite in a
vague sort of way, you know — except, perhaps,
he came so completely as a friend —
hand and glove — of Lady Glen-Luna, and,
birds of a feather flock together,' the
more so since he's engaged to Miss Jessie,
because, of course, his interest and hers are
one, to make the succession to Luna sure
and quick."

Gabrielle shivered ; she could have taken
him up and told, him more than he had ever
dreamed.

"They think he is rich," she said, with
that ring of bitter irony, " but he may bea
mere adventurer — a dissolute roue.

I quite think so, Mrs Albany ; but I
have heard enough to-night to make suspicion
certainty ; they were out on the
terrace together ; I chanced to see them as
I was returning from visiting my sister.
They were near the windows of the empty
ballroom, so I turned round, softly opened

one of them a little, and bent my ear to catch,
if ever so little, what they said ; everything
is fair and right in the master's service*'

Quite — go on," she said, setting her
teeth ; '* what did you hear ? "

Only a few words, madam, here and
there, but that was enough," he said, with
a gleam in his bright eyes. " I could make
out that Mr Brandon was speaking of your
play in a game of chess in which you won,
from which he was warning her that as she
played that game so she played this other.
She looked angry, alarmed, stopped, he
bent down ; I am certain that then some
definite compact was made between them,
for finally she wrenched ofi" a spray from a
shrub, tore it in half and stamped upon it,
with these words : ' That may go to keep
the rose company,' — a significant action and
expression, Mrs Albany."

She put her hand that was not holding
the chair to her brow, and drew a sharp
breath that was almost a gasp.

I think, too," said Harford, deeply
pained to see such signs of an anguish
which, this time, she could not quite
master, *that the hint of Mr Douglas's
removal will make them suspect that you
have played a double part."

Gabrielle dropped her hand and faced
him again. How deadly pale and haggard
she was. Her mind, too powerful to be
ever long in chaos, was made up. Once
more pride, sensitiveness, all herself must
be put aside for his sake.

From the first times she said steadily,
'* that Dr Neville gave us hope, and said
that at a certain stage, if reached, a removal
to one of the spas would be beneficial, I
knew that when such a time came the risk
of that woman's suspicion and opposition,
open or secret, must be run and baffled, of
course ; but I knew long ago what you have
only recently or even just now discovered ;
I have been struggling against a double tide,
not from want of trust in you, faithful

friend, but — but Harford, swear that you
will hold inviolate until I give you leave,
what I may say."

Mrs Albany, it is my place to obey my
master and mistress," said the courier, internally
deeply startled ; " I should never for a
moment have thought you mistrusted me."

Thank you. Swear then."

*' I swear."

She turned abruptly from him, walked to
the end of the room, then back, struggling
proudly against her bitter anguish.

When that man came down here
amongst the guests, I knew that he came
under utterly false colours — an adventurer,
for the sole purpose of rebuilding his squandered
fortunes by a marriage with the girl
he means to be the heiress of Glen-Luna.
I knew who and what he really was, and of
an obstacle to his scheme which he cannot
sweep away, but has for a time weighted so
terribly that it was impossible to unmask
him."

She paused, as if to gather strength.

"Harford, that obstacle — hush, for holy
Heaven's sake ! — you guess ! "

That this Brandon has a wife living,"
said Harford sternly, " and the cursed
villain dares attempt such a foul stain to
the honour of Glen-Luna ! But you can
stop this ; you say you know it."

I know it, to my bitterest cost ! " Each
word fell as if it were a drop of her lifeblood.
'' God helps me ! I am that man's
wife — Leicester Albany."

Harford fell back a step, as if a blow had
been struck him.

'' Great Heaven ! don't — don't tell me
that is true ! "

She sank on to a chair by the table, and
laid her face upon it in her hands, not
weeping, no tears would come to her relief,
only convulsive, suppressed, dry sobs, that
racked the slender form all the more terribly
because they were suppressed lest, haply,
Douglas should hear — always for him the

first thoufifht — even in such bitter anguish

o o

as this.

Hush ! oh hush ! It is terrible to see
a young thing suffer so ! " and in his
earnestness Harford laid his hand on her
shoulder. " My dear, don't, for his sake ! "

Did he know the full power of the plea
that came so naturally ? But even then it
was minutes before she could lift her head
and speak — brokenly then at first.

'' I know all you feel ; but you do npt
know why I have kept, still must, keep
silence." She paused for full a minute, and
then, still with her face averted, though
speaking more steadily, went on — " I made
one terrible mistake when I was separated ;
I destroyed every paper connected with
him, and he knew it. When he found me
his wife — here, he defied me to prove
that he was Leicester Albany — my husband
and swore that if I unmasked him and
claimed him as my husband, he would —
just Heaven ! that he should have lived to

say it ! — he would claim me as having been
his mistress."

Harford suddenly put his hand over his
lips to stifle the fierce exclamation that
sprang to them, and muttered hoarsely, —

If the master knew all this, he would
kill him as I—"

Hush ! " Mrs Albany rose now, with
an utterly weary movement. " You know,
can see now why this forced me to feign —
act total defeat — yielding until wee have the
master safe away from this esclandre. You
see fully now what two desperate enemies
we have to deal with, and what reason
the man — my husband — has for sweeping
out of his way, if he can, both obstacles to
this marriage and the fortune."

I see it all, Mrs Albany." The man's
voice was hoarse with stifled emotion and
passion as he locked her slender hand in his
own. " I will obey you, as I hope I have
always done, because you are my dear
mistress, and, for your own sake and the

master's we both love so deeply ; and I will
serve you to the uttermost you may ask,
because you are the most unhappy, most
foully-wronged woman that man's villainy
ever cursed ; but, if ever there comes a time
when either the master or I can avenge
your wrongs, so help me Heaven ! it will
be the worse for any hand that shall try
to stay us."

That hand will never be mine, William
Harford."

There was a pause, then the courier spoke
in another tone, full of earnest anxiety, —

"Will you try and rest now — try to
sleep ? You look so ill, poor child — so ill —
and the master will see it at once — even
now, I fear."

I will try, dear, faithful friend ; goodnight."


Good night, Mrs Albany, good night,
my dear." In all his five-and-forty years
he had found no such sorrowful a young
life as this.

DROPPING THE MASK A LITTLE.

'ADY GLEN-LUNA did not goto

Douglas's rooms in order to
carry out the plan suggested
by her confederate, but watched till one
fine morning she saw Mrs Albany wheeling
the chair across the lawn, and when it
stopped she took her sunshade and tripped
out to them.

Good morning, both of you," said she ;
what is this I hear from Lady Constance,
dear Douglas ? — it has quite alarmed me.
What can Dr Neville be thinking of to
dream of such a risk as sending you

abroad? or" — reproachfully — "you cither,
Mrs Albany ? "

The blood flushed over Glen-Luna's
brow ; any allusion to his being helpless,
any discussion about himself, from this
woman of all people, pained and stung
him almost unbearably, the more so, perhaps,
this time because he knew that it
was inevitable, and this even Gabrielle
must permit, instead of warding it off.

Tiens-toi, helle-mere," he said lightly,
I must protect both physician and nurse
from blame. Neville and Gabrielle think
it may be attempted — how soon did he
say ? "

About three weeks, we hope, Mr Glen-luna."


Best-qa, and my father has as entire a
reliance on both as I have. They tell me
I may do as I like best," he added, dropping
his head languidly back.

It flashed across Adeline with evil
quickness that that was often what physical.
iir. I

clans said when all skill and hope had
failed, and it was only useless fretting the
doomed patient to cross his wishes. His
little fine bit of acting deceived her ; but
she saw her way to the test agreed on.

'* Well, dear, if so, you will have your
way, I suppose, despite the risk. But have
any of you thought of — I presume you
wish Mrs Albany to attend you ? "

Douglas laughed outright, and Gabrielle
half smiled ; both saw so plainly.

My dear Adeline, are we either of us
like Juliet, ' a stranger in the world ?
Neville will go with us, and Miss Neville
too."

But, my dearest boy, that is not
enough," exclaimed Lady Glen-Luna ; " Mrs
Albany, you must see that for your own
sake this won't do. No, no ; a capital
plan has entered my head. You must
stop for your sister's marriage ; that shall
be hurried forward, and then we can all
go abroad together — your father and I

and your party. Won't that be the very
thing ? We shall make quite a happy
party."

Douglas shook his head, but Mrs Albany
said quietly, with a touch of hauteur in her
firm manner, —

Pardon me, madame ; but even being
here under your roof has not saved me from
scandal, if I had cared about it ; and being
myself a married woman, and Dr and
Miss Neville (beside her fifty years), people
of the highest repute, I consider their presence
quite enough protection for my name,
without the least need of disturbing your
ladyship's plans, or taxing the freedom of
your movements."

** But, my dear" — broke in Adeline
eagerly — *' it's no tax to do anything for
my dear Douglas, as you must know by
this time."

"Plainly, Lady Glen-Luna, then, as
his attendant, answerable for his welfare
to his father and physician, I must absolutely

put my veto upon any increase to
the travelling party. Harford, Dr Neville,
myself, and Miss Neville are necessary,
and more than that would be far too much
for Mr Glen-Luna."

For the hundredth part of a second Adeline
paused ; for that infinitely small space
of time she had almost betrayed herself —
just a flash, a look — but it escaped neither
of those two. Then she laughed, shaking
her finger at Mrs Albany.

Oh, you naughty, naughty girl. Douglas
is quite right to call you his autocrat.
I never could get such obedience from him,
I can tell you, bad boy. But my dear — "

Well " — a slight, restless, almost fretted
movement of the handsome head.

"You won't go abroad, Douglas, until
after Jessie's marriage ? "
He saw Gabrielle shiver — and his own
brow darkened as he answered coldly, —

** I could not, and would not be present,
Adeline, for every possible reason, and

therefore my movements must be quite
independent of your plans."

Oh, Douglas ! poor Jessie will feel it so !
She will think you don't like Chord."

I do not think," said Douglas, leaning
back with a weary look, *that Jessie much
cares whether I like Brandon or not, or
whether I am present or absent from her
marriage. What date have you thought of?"

Somewhere about a month, Clifford
wishes it ; and, as we did not intense to
make any fuss, it can be so done."

As you will, then, Adeline ; neither I
nor mine will be in your way. I shall see
all my pictures, books, art treasures, and soon
removed from those rooms before we
leave them, because the workmen are to be
turned into them ; for, if I live to come
back again — "

Oh, Douglas !— don't !— "

(not badly acted," thought Gabrielle,
with a sarcastic smile creeping over her
lips.)

He answered with quiet sadness, —

My life, Adeline, is not such a prize tome
as to most men ; if I come back I want
to see some change — something different to
the colours and fittings I have seen for
nearly two years."

Whatever you wish, dearest, of course
is our law ; why not have those barred-up,
empty old schoolrooms below yours done
up?"

"No, thanks. I should lose the open
view, I should be shut in by the belt of
trees — I could not bear it ! "

'* Well, dear, what you please. Ta, ta ;
I see Clifford and Jessie on the terrace."

And, kissing the tips of her fingers, she
tripped away again.

Both looked after her till she met the
other two figures, and then, as by one impulse,
each turned, and their eyes met.

"When I leave those rooms" — said
Douglas slowly — " I shall never, never come
back to them, Gabrielle — never, never."

Were those words prophetic ? Are we
sometimes permitted to feel, rather than
see into the future, like one groping in the
dark?

Was there to come a terrible hour, all
too soon, when each of those two would
recall those words ? Merciful Heaven ! was
there not ?

DEEPER AND DEEPER THE BLACK
SHADOWS FALL.

OU were right, Clifford," said
Lady Glen-Luna ; they were
alone in the drawing-room,
before dinner, and her hand clenched on
the dainty handkerchief held,— "you were
right about that woman, Mrs Albany."
Leicester Albany drew a quick breath.
She does suspect you, then ? "
"Yes," she said between her teeth, ''if
your test is infallible."

She would not hear of your offer to go
with them ? "

She ! — yes — she herself — like the autocrat
he makes of her."

Makes ! I tell you, Adeline, bah ! you
meant it — meant him to be her slave 1 if
not, then you were mad to place such a
woman about any man. She is as dangerous
as she is beautiful."

"Dead men tell no tales," said Adeline,
with a short laugh ; "go abroad they never
shall."

Your hand on that, Adeline, if Jessie is
mine first," said Albany, with a gleam in
his black eyes. He had the game now, and
meant to use it. Adeline looked at him a
minute, and then, dropping her fan, put her
right hand into his."

So be it ! ways and means will suggest
themselves in time — circumstances which
will retard their going from here, and would
also put off a marriage. I will see to it,
Clifford ; in three weeks it must take place."

"Tell me what passed on the lawn, that
you say three weeks so glibly."

She told him the substance of what had
passed.

I cannot now," she concluded, " make
out whether Douglas is better or worse ; I
think he is worse, from many little signs,
only Dr Neville, I can quite see, is one of
those venturesome doctors who, when there
is not much hope, are fond of rushing into
bold measures."

The kill or cure sort," said Albany with
a sneer ; " it may be so, but I am suspicious
of madame. She sent for him, didn't she,
after that lift accident ? "

** Yes, but then there was no one to send
for besides him, except that stupid Dr Orde,
and of course Harford would have told her
which was the best."

Albany dared not say too much about his
wife lest he should arouse in Lady Glen-luna
some suspicion that he was speaking
with more knowledge of her than he could
well have got in the, after all, slight acquaintance

down here. He asked, rather
abruptly, — -

"What day have they fixed for their
exodus ? for it seems a thoroughly planned
thing."

Mrs Albany named no day, only mentioned
three weeks or thereabouts ; and
seemed doubtful of his coming back
alive."

Leicester laughed sardonically.

He had better be doubtful the other
way — of leaving here alive. Listen to me,
Adeline ; on second thoughts we will leave
the date of the marriage as before — a month
hence. If anything should occur a week
beforehand," he spoke slowly now, his
glittering eyes fixed on hers — " any family
loss or calamity, you understand — the
marriage would be delayed a week, perhaps,
and be quite private, of course. Do you
understand ? "

She blanched a little now that her own
crime came before her in a second person's

hand, but answered with that cold evil smile
of hers, —

I perfectly understand. You are quite
right."

If there were really truth in the teaching
of Pythagoras, surely this woman's soul had
once inhabited the body of a tiger-cat, and
carried its nature with it in its transfiguration
into hers.

The gossiping coteries of Doring had
plenty to talk about and anticipate in the
next fortnight with the doings and expected
doings at Luna Hall.

Miss Glen-Luna was going to be married
in one month, at St Agnes the Martyr, to
that rich Mr Clifford Brandon — they knew
it would end so, my dear — and Lady Constance
and Miss Lee were to remain — yes —
they had all (this from ladies) gone up to
London yesterday to order the trousseau ;
while Sir Arthur and the bridegroom-elect
had also gone to town — lawyers' settlements,
of course. Sir Arthur had returned alone,

but Mr Brandon was coming back a week
or ten days before Mr Douglas Glen-Luna
went abroad. Oh, yes, it was perfectly
true, my dear lady, extraordinary as the
whole thing is ; a very clever practitioner
from Manchester was coming to take Dr
Neville's place (he never had come to stop,
you know), and he and his sister were going
to Germany with Mr Glen-Luna and " that "
Mrs Leicester Albany ; just a last desperate
attempt to prolong his life, poor fellow ;
that dear, tender-hearted Lady Glen-Luna
was in a terrible way about him. And his
rooms were all to be re-done, and his valuable
pictures and all sorts of things he had
got there were to be moved to the picture
gallery before he left. He didn't himself
think he would come back alive, Lady
Glen-Luna said, with tears in her sweet
eyes.

Perhaps there had been — so can a crocodile
shed tears, we know.

To Albany's unhappy wife his absence —

short as it was — was a brief respite, that
seemed to give her breathing time. If one
load more of anxiety could be added to the
weight she bore already, it was because she
saw that, with each day that passed, Douglas
grew more restlessly unquiet to leave " his
prison," and more deeply fretted about the
coming marriage, more straining after some
means of averting it.

I don't know why it is, Gabrielle," he
said one evening, "but there is something
in this marriage which I dislike and dread
beyond even my dislike to the man. It
frets me terribly that I am so powerless to
stop it. It was too late to do that through
my father, even when he came to tell me ;
I would to Heaven I had some tangible
proofs against him in my hand that would
turn Adeline, or even poor, silly, flighty
Jessie."

Gabrielle had been seated on the foot of
his sofa, reading aloud, but as he spoke she
rose abruptly and walked to the other end

of the long apartment, her pulse throbbing,
her heart beating heavily. Oh how heavily !
What should she do, what could she do,
without stepping too far on to dangerous
ground ; and yet, how could she let this
constant mental wear go on utterly unrelieved,
knowing so well the incalculable
influence the mental has over the physical,
especially in a temperament so highly
strung and rendered even painfully sensitive
by long confinement to every mental influence
? She felt how wistfully his eyes
followed her movements, knew that he had
long known that she was troubled, and took
a middle course, for hers was a mind too
strong and decided to ever remain long ina
state of doubt. She came back to him,
and said, in that suppressed way of hers
that always to him told of such a world of
passion sternly controlled, —

Give me your honour not to ask meany
questions about what I mean, or how I
mean : not one, and I will set your anxiety

about Jessie's marriage at rest. I cannot
see you do yourself such harm."

How he started and flushed ; then sank
back again.

Dear Gabrielle — I am nothing but a
trouble to you."

Hush ; I wish all troubles, then, were
like you," she could not help saying, half
under her breath; *give me your gage
honneur, then."

You hold it in your right hand, Gabrielle,"
he said, and clasped it in his own ;
take that load away from the other if you
can ; I will ask nothing."

Standing there at his side, her hand held
in his, her dark eyes steadily meeting his,
Albany's wife said firmly, —

Hear this, then, and be at rest. This
marriage will never take place."

"Gabrielle!"

'* It is as true as I am standing here.
However near it may seem, even to the
very altar, it will never take place."

Thank God ! oh ! thank God ! "

He covered his face, and so lay quite
still for a long time ; and Gabrielle turned
away to the window with heaving breast,
and struggling to crush back the bitter
tears that welled up from the poor, racked
heart ; so strong and grand in its very
weakness of tender, sensitive womanhood
ay, in its matchless power to bear and
suffer for the one loved being.

She had mastered herself before Douglas
spoke again.

I take your assurance in absolute faith,
Gabrielle, and, whatever I may think or
fancy, keep silence till you choose to speak
more. You know that Brandon returns
here tomorrow ? "

Yes ; Hyacinth told me that there had
been a letter from him this morning. Your
father came up here, just as I left to ride
over to Sister Eose, did he not ?

Ay ; it seems that he and Brandon are
going to run up to town to finally arrange

VOL. III. K

the settlements — get the special licence and
so forth — next Wednesday, returning on
Thursday, — just the week before we
leave."

"They had better burn the settlements
and licence ! " said Mrs Albany, with bitter
irony, " for all are waste paper. For our
own arrangements, I have settled everything,
both with our sweet Sister Eose and
here — "

'you and Harford — well? pardon my
interruption — "

These rooms will be dismantled of all
but the furniture on Tuesday next ; the
piano and your secretaire go to the library ;
the pictures, statues, and books which we
do not take, go, as you wished, to the little
picture gallery in the east wing. Our
luggage and the Nevilless', with the carriage
and horses, will all be sent on to town with
Marston and James, straight on board your
yacht, and there will be nothing to trouble
us on the Thursday but ourselves. Harford

is a host in himself. Of course, the chair
and Angus go with us."

*dear Gabrielle, how splendidly you
have arranged everything ! and to give you
such trouble — for me."

She touched his lips, and said quietly, —

"For you — my one charge, one thought
nothing is trouble."

In his heart's core surely he knew that
long ago, as she was his one thought. He
smiled up at her, and added, —

"And it was you who even thought of
crossing in my own dear yacht, because you
knew how T loved it ! Oh, Gabrielle, I am
nearly wild, I think, with looking, looking
on and thinking of this, more than hope you
and Chandos give ; I can see " — he started
half up, his dark eyes all glowing with light,
his speaking features, his whole form quivering
with emotion — " I see \h.^ yacht, I hear
them getting up the steam if the breeze
should drop : the wind is filling her white
canvas now as she dances on the deep blue

seas, the white horses are out as I saw them
last ; see myself standing on the deck with
you — you at my side — all this past misery
and agony of doubt and death around is
growing a dark dream — my God ! it is too
much ! it cannot all come true ! " he broke
out suddenly, passionately, and almost flinging
himself back, buried his face in the
cushions.

One second's pause, one second's fierce
battle against untold agony and temptation,
and then the noble woman who so loved
him, bent over him, laid her soft hand on
the bowed head, and breathed a deep passionate
prayer.

God save thee from all danger and
sorrow ! God keep thee for ever and ever."

Then he heard the door close, and knew
that he was alone, if ever the human heart
is alone that gives and holds a pure and
noble love.

So the days passed by, one by one, dropping

off the tablets of time ; marked out
from life's scroll ; leaving behind it to the
future each its load of sin and care and
misery ; and the right hand that once wrote
these words might write them again in
letters of blood, —

111 deeds will rise,
Though all the world o'er whelm them, to men's eyes."

A GULF AT HIS FEET.

ND then that Thursday came ;
the week before Douglas Glen-luna's
departure, the fortnight
before the projected marriage of Jessie.

There were, it seemed, several feminine
fripperies " yet to be purchased, and Lady
Glen-Luna, declaring she was not equal to
a day's shopping, begged Lady Constance
to go with the girls, as Mrs Albany could
not, she knew — and, indeed, ought not — to
leave " dear Douglas " for a whole day.
Lady Constance good-naturedly consented,
and the ten o'clock up-train took herself,
Hyacinth, and Jessie to town — not probably

to return till dinner-time. But Sir Arthur
Glen-Luna and his son-in-law elect returned
in time for luncheon. They walked up
from the station to the Hall, and, as they
approached the stately facade and broad
terrace, Sir Arthur caught sight of his son
and his two rarely absent attendants — Mrs
Albany and Angus. So did Leicester see
them, but he had little wish to nearer
quarters, though, as Sir Arthur immediately
changed his course, Albany could hardly <lo
less than follow, though, sooth to say, under
present conditions he felt in his wife's presence
very much like a " cat on hot bricks,"
not because his brazen effrontery had failed,
or that he was capable of shame, but because,
try as he would to feel that he.
was master of the situation, he could
not crush a vague fear of her — a dim,
uncomfortable feeling that somehow the
game might not turn out so entirely
this ; he knew her haughty courage, her
bold spirit, and her never-forgotten words

months ago, " Whatever you do, I will
foil you."

Sir Arthur was, of course, warmly greeted
himself courteously but coldly, and he
fancied that in Douglas's manner there was
more hauteur than usual.

Come and lunch with us to-day, dear
boy," said Sir Arthur ; "if only to give us
the company of this fair lady, as all are
absent except my little wife. And, besides,
we shall want you afterwards — eh, Clifford?"


** Oh, Sir Arthur, we need not trouble
them ; any one can just witness the signing
of a deed."

What deed, father ? " said Douglas
quietly.

Only Clifford's settlement on your little
sister," returned the baronet, with a laughing
glance at Albany ; " you will come in
then, Douglas — and you, my dear ? "

We will come, since you wish it, dear
father," Glen-Luna answered, and Gabrielle

bowed assent, " only you will have to kindly
allow us to retreat to our rooms in good
time, as wee expect the Nevilless to dinner,
I fancy" — he smiled now — "that the two
ladies have a few details of the journey to
arrange."

"You shall go when you like, my boy.
Come Clifford ; we have all the dust to get
rid of."

If it had been possible to dispense with
his wife's presence at that luncheon, Leicester
Albany would fain have done so. She
was as easy, as brilliant, as fascinating as
ever — but he felt that she knew he was not
at his ease, strive as he would to be so — to
seem so. He did not know that Douglas
was equally aware of the fact that his gaiety
was forced, though Gabrielle was, and more
than once she noticed a momentary stern
expression about his lips which startled
her.

Sir Arthur, perfectly innocent of all the
turbid currents around him, sat and chatted,

so bright and happy in his green old age,
that it made two of those present heavy-hearted,
indeed, with the thought that he
might — ay, perhaps, must — one day know
the skeleton on his own hearth.

*' How we have chatted," said Lady Glen-luna,
at length, in her pretty manner. ** I
suppose we had better adjourn to the
library ; doesn't it seem a shame, dear Mrs
Albany," she added, laughing as she rose,
that in this life one cannot have romance
and sentiment without that stupid, prosaic
business — business always forcing its way
in ? Such a pity, isn't it ? "

I think that real romance is not so
much as touched by the prosaic necessities
of daily life," returned Mrs Albany, laying
her hand on the back of Douglas's chair
to move it.

Albany turned with outstretched hand, —

Nay, Mrs Albany, permit me ; I think
there is a step up into the library ! "

She put his hand back with such stern

menace in the action, and one glance she
gave him, that an instant quiver of dread
ran through him.

** That, then, Mr Brandon," she said
deliberately, " is the more reason for me
not to desert my post. I am used to it
and you are not, and do not realise, perhaps,
how harmful would be the least jerk, or
want of skill. Sir Arthur, we will follow
you, please."

Oh, you naughty autocrat," laughed
Adeline, as Sir Arthur threw wide the door
and led the way, but the laugh was not
good to hear, and the voice was more
metallic than ever, " I don't know how
Douglas will put up with you abroad ;
better leave you behind, my dear."

I could not spare her, I think," said
Douglas, with a deep earnestness under the
jesting tone which went to the heart of the
woman who had loved him first — womanlike
— for his very need of her tenderness
and care, " and I think, too, that she is as

restless and glad to spread her wings again
as I am."

As he said that they passed from the
hall into the library at the far end of it,
and at a sign from Sir Arthur his attendant
drew the chair up alongside the large solid
table in the centre, and Albany, entering
last, closed the door carefully, then came
forward too.

There was a pause — an odd sort of mental
lull — such as we feel in the elements before
a storm. The dog — and how instantly
these dear four-footed friends of ours are
alive to the mental atmosphere around
them only those who love and watch them
can know — the dog looked from one to the
other, licked his master's hand, and looked
again at Leicester Albany, then suddenly
growled.

Silence, Angus, lie down, boy."

Instant obedience, but he laid his head on
his master's foot, and kept his bright watchful
eyes on his master's face.

Lady Glen-Luna asked pleasantly —

"Well, but what are we waiting for,

Arthur ? Is the settlement here, Clifford ? '"'

He bowed, with a furtive glance at his

wife, who stood beside Douglas, resting her

hand lightly on the back of his wheel-chair.

"Sir Arthur, you put it into a drawer

here, I think ; shall I take it out ? "

Certainly ; that drawer near you.
Douglas and Mrs Albany will kindly bethe
witnesses to your signature ; it is only,
you know, his marriage settlement on
Jessie."

Only I " — the beautiful woman whose life
he had wrecked stood motionless as a statue
outwardly, but within the volcano was seething
wildly ; the fierce forces of the woman's
whole strong, impassioned nature were
surging madly now like a tempest-tossed
mass of waters against the barriers she had
raised up around them; the sternest self-control
has its limits, and hers had well
nigh reached that point, one touch more —

one spark flung too defiantly against her —
and let that black-browed man beware, and
remember her last menace : — '' If I fall, I
will not fall alone."

A formidable-looking document isn't it'*
said Sir Arthur, as Albany unrolled a parchment
on the table near Douglas, and took
up a pen. In that second, even as he
stooped to sign, some irresistible impulse
made him glance nervously, furtively at his
wife, as she still stood at Douglas's right
hand — her left hand lying on the arm of the
chair, which was close to the table, and, of
course, between her and the table.

She looked straight in his face, into his
bold black eyes, and they dropped suddenly,
a red flush leaped to his swarthy cheek, to
his very brow, and he bent quite low as he
signed the name — " Clifford Brandon."

Douglas saw all this, and set his white
teeth close for his promise' sake as Albany
handed him. the pen. He had been leaning
back as if weary, and now bent forward

slowly, drew the parchment closer, and
pausing, looked up suddenly into Gabrielle's
white set face.

Places mix dames ; will you sign first ? "
he said.

No ; I will follow the heir of Glen-luna."


He stooped at once and dashed off the free,

easy signature she knew so well, then, leaning
back, put the pen into Gabrielle's hand.

It was one of those moments in which the
whole balance of our lives hangs on the cast
of a feather's weight into the scale. She
did not leave her position, but leaned
slightly across Douglas and dipped the pen
in the ink — touched the parchment, almost
formed a G, paused, and let the pen drop
on the deed. With a fierce gleam in his
black eyes, losing for the moment of anger
perfect guard, Albany instantly raised the
pen, and, bending to restore it, whispered
the menacing words : —

Remember, and sign."

The hour had come ; it was the one touch
too much, and the pen was flung from the
hand that held it.

I will not sign my name or set my seal
to so foul a lie, so black a deed, as this."
She took the parchment and rent it in two
as the words passed her lips. '' To which
you dared not affix your real name ; you who,
base adventurer to the last, have crept and
crawled to a stainless house, to steal away
its daughter s honour for the gold her hand
may bring you ! Look upon him, you two
knightly men — father and son " — she laid
her left hand heavily on Douglas's shoulder,
mindful, even in her passion of wrath and
scorn, that her words would make him
spring to his feet in the next moment —
who never yet sullied a woman's honour by
even a glance, and ask him if he dare deny
that he has betrayed your hospitality, and
like the reptile, would sting to death the hand
that fed it, the life given for his dastard
life — ask him if he dare deny that

he is my wedded husband ! — Leicester
Albany"'

I guessed this, and, by the God above !
he shall answer for it ! Drop your hand,
Gabrielle!"

The whole force of the man's deep
passions, the whole strength of his fierce,
stern wrath, so long smouldering, blazed
forth in that moment, and but for the
dear hand he could not violently throw
off Douglas had sprung to his feet art
wrecked all hope for himself in the one
blow that would have levelled Albany with
the ground ; but almost as she answered, " I
will not drop it," Sir Arthur, on whom her
accusation had fallen like a thunderbolt, recovered
himself and strode forward, while
Lady Glen-Luna still stood like one utterly
dumbfoundered.

In Heaven's name what am I to understand
by this ? What have you to say to
this charge ? Speak, man, and clear the
mystery if you can ! "

VOL. Ill L

Douglas," came Adeline's voice, hoarse
with real terror now, " keep the dog down,
for pity's sake ! "

For the dog had crouched for a spring,
with drawn lips and quivering flanks ; but
it was only for his father's sake that his
master uttered one stern, " Down, Angus 1 "
as Albany spoke. He had only lost his
effrontery for one minute.

The mystery. Sir Arthur," he said,
sternly, " and the explanation of that lady's
extraordinary claim to be my wife is simple
enough, and my mistake in it lies in the
fact that I have too long and entirely kept
silence respecting who and what she is, out
of consideration for her as a woman, because
it seemed to me unmanly, and least of all,
perhaps, my place to betray her past life.
I was, I confess, utterly taken aback when I
found Mrs Albany in your house, but when
I yielded to her prayer for my silence in the
very first evening I came, and passed my
word to keep her secret, I little dreamed the

monstrous fraud lie would attempt to prevent
my marriage. I, Clifford Brandon, only
a few years ago her lover, with whom she
left her husband and lived — "

Forsworn coward ! Liar to your teeth 1"
Douglas broke in with a passion that shook
him to the centre, " if even all your false
story were true, no gentleman — no man —
would have sheltered himself at the expense
of betraying even his mistress ! Father — "

Albany interposed, —

Mr Glen-Luna, I forbear to retaliate or
take notice of your harsh words and instant
belief in this charge, both because you are — "

I neither ask nor take even real, much
less affected consideration for what I am
now, Leicester Albany. I see all. I was
suspicious of you from the first, as your
wronged wife and my courier Harford very
well know. I know well enough that * good '
introductions can be bought by such menas
you, like all else, and I tell you that if I
had been what I was before the accursed

hour in which I saved your worthless life,
you would never have set foot across my
father's threshold."

And now," said Sir Arthur, pointing
sternly to the door, " cross it once more and
for ever, Mr Albany. I have been blind,
deceived, and why your wife did not at
once speak I do not now ask. No, Adeline,
not a word. Nor you, sir. Your very defence,
as my son truly says, damns your
veracity. And nothing but this lady's own
confession (if that) would make old Arthur
Glen-Luna believe that she was anything
but purity itself, or had ever been anything
but wedded wife to any living man ! "

Now for the first time the firm hand still
pressed on Douglas's shoulder trembled ;
for the first time the stern set lips quivered,
but she mastered even that slight mark of
emotion as Albany said haughtily, —

Common justice, Sir Arthur, would
better become a Glen-Luna than a high-sounding
sentiment from you and your own

son, a defence of the lady which, to the
most impartial ear, can hardly be much to
her credit. I ask you in my turn to challenge
her most audacious claim, ask her for
her proofs that I am other than Clifford
Brandon ; has she any paper, any likeness
of this Leicester Albany 1 "

I will answer those questions direct, my
husband," said his wife steadily; and, do
what he would, he drew back a step and
dropped his insolent gaze before the steadfast
look of those magnificent eyes. " It
was your knowledge that I had destroyed
all such papers and likeness of you which
put this foul scheme to win a rich bride into
your brain. I told you this in London,
that I would foil you, that you should never
wreck in any way another young life as you
have mine. Yet you dared, with money
won at play, and how else you best know,
to carry out your plan, trusting that you
could foil me. You came here, saw me
drive past with Mr Gh^n-Lunn, and sent mea

letter under a subterfuge. I met you that
once in the park that night, with the dog
for my protection " — how Douglas started
at that — "and you swore then that if I
betrayed your identity you would repudiate
me as your wife and claim me as your
mistress. I shrank from that at that
moment. I wanted to gain time, and I
played a part. I feigned to yield, made
the compact, and let you in your folly
dream that you were secure, that I would
actually stand by and suffer you to go
through the worse than farce of wedding
Jessie Glen-Luna. Fool ! You at least
should have known me better. For your
identity as Leicester Albany, money and
time can prove it. There are men in San
Francisco who will surely remember the
tragedy heres and swear to both of us ;
there are men at Monaco who — "

Stop child," exclaimed Sir Arthur, and
Douglas touched her lips, "you shall not,
need not, defend yourself; he has condemned

himself, and it is he must prove,
not you. For you, sir, you have dared to
offer to my child and her family the grossest
insult, the most foul betrayal, of which a
man could be guilty ! In an hour a carriage
shall be ready to take you to the station."

He turned his back upon him, and rang
the bell, but though Adeline, who long ago
had covered her face weeping, Leicester
Albany as he went out of the library to
his own apartment, foiled, scorned, beaten
back, for the time blinded with baffled fury,
yet knew that one in that house dared not,
could not, now join against him, and would
not if she could.

They must walk the dangerous ground
together once and for all.

AFTER THE STORM ; A THREATENING SKY STILL.

iT will break Jessie's heart," sobbed
Lady Glen-Luna, as the door"
closed behind Leicester Albany.
"It is a horrible dream! — it cannot be
true ! I don't know what to think or say !
I am distracted ! "

Douglas's lip curled, and Gabrielle Albany,
picking up the rent parchment, said,
sternly, —

"Jessie had better thank God for the
narrow escape she has had, even if that
man had been free to wed. I could wish
my bitterest foe no worse fate than to be
Leicester Albany's wife. Sir Arthur, to

you and your son I am more indebted than
I can speak." The voice faltered, and she
turned hurriedly, put her hands on the
wheel-chair and moved it towards the door.
All her thought and attention was for her
charge again — if, indeed, for one moment it
had ever been secondary ; for him she still
bore up ; and as the footman opened the
door in answer to the bell they passed out
into the hall, and thence through the long
corridor back to the west wing, where
Harford was waiting — a little to her surprise.


I was not far off, madame," he said
quietly. " I knew what might happen
when that waste paper was signed, and
thought it best to be near. She told me
all, sir, nights ago."

And then the lift went up, and once more
they were back in their own domain, and
Douglas moved to his sofa. He was exhausted
— for the fierce tempest cannot
sweep over the land and leave it deathless,

and for him there was all the added agony
of knowing how she — the woman he loved
suffered, of knowing that such a despicable
yet impassable barrier stood between
them.

Gabrielle — Gabrielle, if you had but
told me at the first ! " he said, passionately,
as Harford left them.

Her breast heaved, she struggled desperately
for a minute for control, then dropped
suddenly to her knees beside the couch, and
burst into wild terrible weeping — ay, tears
such as men sometimes weep. All the long
suppressed, long crushed, pent up weight of
months gathered up now and broke over
every dyke and swept all before it but the
one sense of honour — of wifehood.

No word dared Douglas trust himself to
speak, save the silent language he could not
help, the silence, the soft touch of his hand
to her head, her brow, that both spoke such
a volume of love — a deep loyal love that
could bear, suffer with her suffering, but

never sully, never wound, and presently
she grew more calm.

Forgive me," she whispered brokenly
at last, " it was for your sake — forgive
me."

And then she kissed his hand, and rising
went out of the room, leaving him alone —
to bury his face from the light that seemed
to mock his fierce agony — and yet through
all his guardian angel gathered out of the
chaos of passion and misery the one
wild prayer, *' Give me strength to
bear all — without sin against Thee and
her I love ! "

Was ever such cry for help cast back
unheard on the agonised human heart ?
We know it never is — never — never to all
eternity.

It was a strange and utterly unlooked
for story that Chandos Neville and Sister
Eose had to learn, when later they
came ; and then Eose put her arms round

Gabrielle and held her close — close for
minutes.

*/ My darling ! — my poor child ! — God
help you to be loyal still," she whispered,
for it is a hard battle for both of you."

Ah, who knew that so well as they did
who had the battle to fight out unto the
end ?

While Leicester Albany, declining the
services of Sir Arthur's valet, was packing
his portmanteau, a letter was brought him
from Lady Glen-Luna. He smiled, sneeringly,
as he broke it open.

I cannot believe Mrs Albany's story,
though I am obliged to go with the tide,
apparently — go away they shall not. Take
your ticket to London, but stop at Lang-bourne
; go to the inn near the station, under
some nom-de-guerre, and meet me tomorrow
night at twelve in the park, at the
spot where Jessie introduced you to Douglas.
Langbourne is only three miles, but be very
careful, for Harford goes there often to see*

a sick sister, and will certainly go shortly
before Thursday — perhaps on the Wednesday
before it."

Eh, hen ! my lady ; you shall be
obeyed," muttered Albany ; " whichever you
believe, you know that you must keep my
side of the fence. Death ! We can have
vengeance if all were lost. And it is not.
Free I can get Jessie to elope, and these
broad lands must come to her. Ten thousand
curses on Gabrielle, and the day her
beauty tempted me ! "

As the words were uttered there suddenly
flashed across him the memory of
the words that that beautiful wife had
spoken once when he had threatened that
which he had now done, — " God of Justice
hear me, this man's most wronged, most
miserable wife, call down Thy just vengeance
on his deeds."

He remembered her look, her very accent,
and shuddered for one second, then muttered
a blasphemous oath. He cared " not for

God or for devil — if there were either ! "
He would have revenge and foil Gabrielle
yet.

Ah, me ! but curses come home to roost.

Long after a brougham had taken him to
the station Lady Constance and the two
girls returned from town. Hyacinth afterwards
told Chandos that the moment she
entered the house she felt that something
had happened, though she had never in the
least looked for anything so terrible as the
truth.

Jessie went into violent hysterics. The
girl liked " Clifford Brandon," and not unnaturally,
even in her hysterics, declared
her belief in his story, and hate of that
horrible Mrs Albany." Indeed, so long
continued were Jessie's hysterics that both
Sir Arthur and her mother— who dared
not whisper to her yet one word that she
was on his side too — were glad to remember
that Dr Neville was in the west wing, and
sent for him at once. He very soon put

an end to the hysterics, and ordered the
exhausted patient to bed.

Gossip was, of course, rife in the servants'
hall. Sir Arthur had simply sent for the old
housekeeper and told her to tell the servants
that it had happily been discovered in time
that Mr Brandon vas not what he had
appeared at all, but a thorough adventurer,
and already a married man, and with this
information speculation had food enough.
The footman who had answered the library
bell, and seen the torn deed, said he fancied
that somehow it was either Mr Douglas
or Mrs Albany who had found it out, and
as to the dear dog, he never could bear that
Mr Brandon, or my lady either, for that
matter. Angus had just looked then as
if for half a mind he'd pull Mr Brandon
down.

I wish he had," said Marston, Douglas's
own groom, who happened to be present,
for I'm sure he deserved it." Marston,
putting two and two together, had a

shrewd idea, which came pretty near the
truth, but he held his tongue discreetly
till he should confide his idea to Harford.
When he did so, the courier's grave, " You
are right, Marston ; keep still the silence
for which I must give you your due
praise ; silence is golden. I shall tell the
master and mistress," was sufficient reward
to the man. He was devoted to his
master and mistress, for Douglas's servants
had long quite considered Gabrielle in that
light, and a look, a word of praise, from
either was more than gold.

DARK HOURS.

.Consternation fell on Doring,
to which, of course, the news
from the Hall spread next day
in a more or less garbled form, but the
main facts they got, for a wonder, truly
enough — that the dashing Clifford Brandon
was a frightful scamp, a mere adventurer,
and a married man into the bargain — so
that there would be no marriage at Luna
this time ; no wonder Miss Glen - Luna
was ill. Then, of course, Mrs Orde and
Miss Castaway discovered that they had
never quite liked the looks of that Mr
Brandon — they were not at all surprised

VOL. III. M

at the end of it all — the wretch ! they
supposed it would not delay the departure
of Mr Glen-Luna at all — oh no, why should
it ? and Mrs Albany would take care of
that, my dear.

Poor Mrs Albany ! they had never forgiven
her for paying no heed to their
venomous tongues. Then the new doctor
from Manchester arrived at the Cedars,
and gave the gossips another topic to
wag their tongues over, and you may be
sure they made the most of it.

But who knew of that midnight meeting
under the grand old trees ? who knew of
the terrible compact made, the fell deed
there matured — a deed so dark and desperate,
that it was scarcely possible to
foresee and guard against it ?

Chandos Neville — very anxious about
both his charge and Gabrielle after such
a trial as yesterday — drove up to the Hall
earlier than usual on the Friday morning.

*' 1 find you, Mrs Albany, looking very

much as if you needed my care as much
as Douglas ; " said the physician, walking
into the now much dismantled apartment.
I shall be very glad when Thursday
comes."

God knows, so shall I ! " said Albany's
wife, half under her breath ; " it is impossible
to feel one moment's rest or freedom
from deadly anxiety as long as weare
under this roof. Ah, mon ami, don't
look at me so reproachfully — he has just,
been scolding me, Dr Neville, so much, for
being over anxious about him, but I know
too well what that man Leicester Albany
is, what his accomplice is. I do not believe
Leicester is in London — nor does Mr Glen-luna
; and, after that lift accident and all
that has followed, we all, bitter as it is,
know too well what Lady Glen-Luna is.
How can I feel easy for one moment on
your account then ? "

Douglas made no answer, but Chandos
saw that his lips, his very teeth, were set

close. His anxiety for the woman he loved
equalled hers for him. Neville asked —

'* Have either of you any idea — any
suspicion, then, what they are about, or
intend to attempt ? "

No," said Douglas ; "we can only be
on our guard ; the days will soon pass —
only — oh, Chandos ! Chandos ! " he broke
out suddenly, passionately — " it maddens
me to be so helpless when she is in
danger ! Why did you keep me back
yesterday, Gabrielle ? I would have killed
him where he stood ! "

And wrecked your own more than life
for ever," she said, laying her hand on
his. ** I kept you back to save you against
yourself. For me, I could bear all ; but to
see you suffer — get worse than ever — that
would kill me ! I had never meant to
speak till we had left England — but the
tide rose too fast — circumstances put it
beyond my entire control."

** And," said Douglas, keeping her hand

still in his clasp, " some suspicion of
the truth had flashed across me, giving
the keynote to many a little thing I
had noticed and been puzzled by, fine
actress as you were, but he did not act
up to you."

I know that. Dr Neville, are you
going to see Jessie to day ? "

*' Presently ; when I have attended to
Douglas. Where is Harford ? "

Early far from his master, Gabrielle
rang the bell, and while they waited,
Chandos said, —

"By the way, Eose and I are going to
dine as a farewell with the Eosslyns on
Wednesday, at Eosslyn Grange. They
wanted us to stay the night, but we declined
that, as we are to join you here at tenon
Thursday ; so we shall drive back, I suppose,
between twelve and one. We can take
the short cut through the Great Park, I
suppose ? "

Oh yes ; T am glad you are going there ;

they are capital people. Tell my dear Eose
not to flirt with Percy too much."

Ha, ha ! I'll tell her. Here comes Harford."


And my nainsell too," said a sweet voice
behind the courier, and in walked Hyacinth
Lee, flushing a little, but more with pleasure
than bashfulness. "Here I am."

Neville turned quickly, locking her hand
in his, as Harford quietly wheeled his
master into the dressing-room.
" My dear Hyacinth ! my darling ! this
is unexpected."

Of course it is, you best of old fellows,"
but the sweet lips that tried to be saucy
quivered, as he stooped to kiss them ;
though I ran up to see how dear Gabrielle
and Mr Glen-Luna were, after — after that
miserable yesterday."

Not what I would wish, my dear," he
answered gravely ; " but I must go to him
now."

And Hyacinth will stop with me till you

some in again," said Mrs Albany quietly, ashe
passed out.

How is Jessie, ma chere ? "

Dear Gabrielle, please don't think me
cruel, but I do not, cannot, believe that she
is as broken-hearted as she fancies, or pretends,
or is really ill enough to keep her
room. Don't you think so ? "

Mrs Albany put her two hands on the
girl's shoulders, and the tears came heavily
into the sorrowful, dark eyes that looked
down on her.

'' Hyacinth, you may perhaps think that
my own terrible experience has seared me,
has made me cynical — and so possibly it has ;
nor is it to any but just yourself and those
few here dear to both of us to whom I
would speak, since it is my husband who
has put such foul insult on Jessie Glen-Luna ;
and T, his wife, knowing all, yet — no matter
how urgent my reason — suffered the wrong
to go so far that when of necessity the
storm broke it could not break in secret.

But that Jessie's heart suffers would be to
presuppose she has one, and for that she is
too throughly her mother's child to fear.
No girl with a woman's heart at all could
possibly have neglected so utterly, so cruelly,
such a man as her brother, ill and helpless
as he was. That her vanity is wounded to
the bottom, that she is chagrined beyond
measure at the sudden reversal of all her
bridal visions I know, but feel no pity, no
regret, hard as it may seem. But mark you,
Hyacinth, if you had been the heiress
selected, and I had dreamed for one moment
that you could be attracted, you who have
a heart to be won or broken — or both — I
call Heaven to witness that the night I met
Leicester Albany in this park my answer to
his scheme and threat would have been tolet
loose upon him this dog at my feet. I
would to Heaven that I had now ! " she said,
with a dark look that startled Hyacinth.

Oh, Gabrielle ! don't, don't say that,
dear ! It would have been murder ! "

Would it, girl ? " said the other sternly ;
is blood for blood murder, or God's own
law ? You do not know that man's life, or
what is in his black heart now, as I do. Ah,
Hyacinth, Hyacinth, your mother does not
know what she is doing in trying to part
you from such a man as Chandos Neville ;
your marriage will be but passing from one
happy, loving home, to another yet happier."

And hers had been but the passing from
a prison to a very hell. Woe had been the
day that saw her a bride !

NEVILLE S Dream IS FULFILLED.

ELL, well ; so those days passed by,
one by one, in that sort of lull
which comes after a storm — and
too often before another — a heavy mental
atmosphere which weighed vaguely even
on those who never even dreamed of all that
lay under the surface of the waters. Jessie
still kept her room and the heartbroken
business, and eagerly accepted an invitation
kindly sent by Lady Saltoun, to pay
them a long visit the week after Douglas's
departure abroad.

Near him she never went, and begged
that nobody should speak of '* that Mrs

Albany " in her presence, unless they meant
to insult her. Lady Glen-Luna purred
about as usual, mildly reproved her daughter
for allowing her heart to blind her too much,
and inquired tenderly each day, through Sir
Arthur, after " dearest Douglas and Mrs
Albany," adding sometimes with a soft sigh,
that she was glad she " had not the responsibility
of moving him in his critical state."

Hyacinth was constantly with the tenants
of the west wing, and drove out with them
on the Tuesday. On the Wednesday "she
travellers' luggage and the carriage and
horses were sent on to town with Marston
and James, to go straight on board the
yacht.

Wednesday ! their last evening, heavy,
oppressive, brooding. In the afternoon,
while Sir Arthur was chatting with his son
and Gabrielle, Harford came in with a letter
from his sister, Mrs Be van, who was much
better, and, it being her brother's last evening
in England for perhaps many months,

had asked in a few friends for a little farewell
meeting. Could Mr Douglas spare
him, and, if so, might he bring Angus, with
whom her two children had made such a
playmate while he was at the old farrier's in
Langbourue ?

Certainly, Harford ; " said Douglas cordially,
" I am too glad for you to have a
little pleasure ; take Angus by all means,
and stop till the last train."

Oh no, sir ; that leaves at 11.30."

** Eh hen ! mon clier,^' Douglas smiled and
glanced significantly at Mrs Albany, '* I can
spare you till twelve, or as late as you like.
If you come before the last train, Harford,
we shall not speak to you."

Harford smiled, called the collie, who
seemed rather loth to go, and retired. Half-an-hour
later William Harford crossed the
threshold of that west wing on his way to the
station, and crossed it for the last time.

His sister had got a little party together,
but for all, the man was anxious and heavy

at heart about those he had left, even for
those few hours, and almost wished he had
not come ; although, when, as it were, he
reasoned it to himself, he though that their
watchfulness must have foiled whatever intentions
their foes had had. Still he was
glad when the time came to take leave and
step down to the station.

The gate was shut, but the clerk was
standing by and turned round.

You won't get back this way, Mr Harford,
for two hours at least," said lie ;
they've just wired along the line there's
been a slight accident ^nq miles up rail, and
nothing can pass for two hours till they've
cleared the road."

Malediction ! " said Harford strongly,
and paused for a minute ; " well, I suppose
that all this stupid little village is asleep by
now {

Rather," said the clerk, showing his
watch ; "a quarter to twelve may be your
London hours, Mr Harford, but they aren't

ours you see. You might perhaps get a
horse," — this dubiously.

Bah ! man, nothing so quick now as the
Mary-]e-bone stage," returned the courier,
swinging round. " Good night. I'll walk
the three miles in quicker time than it'll take
to shake a stick. This way, Angus ; home to
the master, boy."

The dog bounded off, the man stepped
out at a swinging pace, more vexed, more
vaguely uneasy than he dared to put into
words, even to himself.

It was a very dark night, but Harford
knew every step of the way as well as in
broad day, and, moreover, meant to get
over the park palings, and make a shortcut.
But presently, long before he neared
that point, the dog suddenly stopped,
whined uneasily, looking in Harford's face
with eyes that all but spoke, then pulled
his hand, ran a few paces quickly, whined
piteously again, and while the man's face
blanched, and his very heart sickened with

deadly apprehension, the collie threw up
his head with one wild, prolonged bay, and
sprang forward at full speed.

My God ! they have been murdered,
and the dog's instinct knows it ! " broke
from Harford's livid lips, and he sprang
madly forwards.

But all his speed could not by a hundredfold
equal that of the dog ; he heard him
for a few minutes crashing through the
grass and underwood, and then even that
was lost.

On, on, in the terrible race, for he knew
not what, it may be life or death or only
to gain time, but dogs have presentiments,
and Angus had gone. Harford gains the
park ; he is over the paling, high as it is ;
there is still a long distance between him
and those two he has left, and his flying
steps seem to himself as if weighted with
lead. Great Heaven ! what is that sound
that suddenly booms out over the still,
darkened country — one heavy stroke ? only

one, that for the second seems almost to
paralyse him, only one stroke of the alarm
bell in the west wing !

Chandos Neville and Sister Rose dined
that evening, as he had said, at the Koss-
lens', and a most pleasant evening they spent.

They are such nice people," said Rose,
leaning back in their phaeton as, somewhere
about eleven, it drove off, "homeward
bound."

Very. And poor Percy is so furious
with that villain — you see he introduced
him — that he swears he'll have him black-balled
at the Polyglot at once. Rose, I
fancy that Colonel Rosslyn half guesses
that he is Mrs Albany's husband. I wish
tomorrow was well over, and so, I am
sure, does she."

** Poor young thing," said Rose, in deep
pity, " her burthen is too heavy to be
borne long. The anxiety of this last week
especially has been terrible ! "

I wish to Heaven ! " said Neville
strongly, " that she had put a bullet into
the scoundrel in California ! only it would
have been too quick a death for him."

Qh, hush, Chandos ; blood is an awful
thing to have on one's head."

I don't think his would have lain heavy
on Gabrielle's, Eose ; and I don't see why
it should. Men morally forfeit the right
to life for some things which law reckons
less than life."

Yes, dear," said Rose ; '' but it is a
dangerous precedent for each individual
to begin deciding where that moral right
is forfeited and where it remains existent."

Hem," said Chandos, " you must argue
that out with Gabrielle, sweet sister mine ;
I think if ever a reptile deserved putting
out of the world, it is Leicester Albany."

"So do I, my dear, but it is not for anyone
of us individually to do it ; unless, of
course, in self defence, as poor Gabrielle
shot that other villain. Where are we

VOL. III. N

now ? Did you tell John to take the cut
through Luna Park ? "

Yes ; he knows the right turning to
take, luckily, for, it is such a dark night.
I wonder whereabouts we are exactly ? "

Not very far from the approach to this
extremity of the park, I should think,"
remarked Sister Eose ; "see if you can
tell, Chandos. Are those the trees of the
Owl's Wood ? "

Neville looked up.

Why we have just passed into the
park ! " he said. " One of the gamekeepers
must have seen the carriage coming, for
he is shutting the gate behind us. We
shall soon be out of the wood."

I wish," said Rose, " that we could
metaphorically get as easily out of the
wood ; I suppose — I hope — by this time
tomorrow we shall be on the yacht * over
the deep blue waters.

*' I hope so, dear Rose, but — Aha !
Merciful Heaven ! what is that ? "

The same awful sound — the one deep,
heavy boom of that alarm-bell, like one
clarion note of death, heard right in Doring,
startling those whose duty kept them
watching, rousing those who slept, heard
far and near, miles off, yet in the very ear,
that one stroke sounded like one last cry
of despair.

*' Drive for your life, man ! " Neville
cried, standing right up in the phaeton,
while Rose sat white and motionless ; '* drive-for
life and death, for something awful has
happened at the Hall ! "

On ! on ! Are the minutes weighted with
lead, and each second draorg-ed into an
hour ? Does that fearful nightmare dream
of his long ago come suddenly back to
Chandos Neville now — that dream of a
surging crowd and thick darkness like a
wall. Saints above ! Is that it now rolled
out before his gaze, away ahead in the
direction of the Hall ? Is that a mass of
dense, black clouds — on, nearer, nearer.

Do clouds lower so low and roll over like that
an great black volumes, or glow with, such
lurid light behind them? Do clouds ever
shoot up such a sudden, frightful glare
against the sky as —

Eose ! Great God ! the west wing is
ON FIRE ! "

DOOMED.

HE evening, after Harford had
gone, closed in heavy and lowering,
and the night came on
intensely dark and strangely oppressive.
Within, the beautiful rooms looked utterly
desolate and forlorn ; the books were gone
the piano, pictures, statues — all those
exquisite works of art which the refined
and artistic taste of the master's cultured
mind had gathered about him had been
removed under his or Gabrielle's own supervision.
Nothing remained but the elegant
furniture, the graceful hangings, and the
masses of flowers.

After Sir Arthur bade good-night, and
left them, Gabrielle had presently asked
Douglas if she should read aloud — she
had kept one or two books at hand — she
knew well by her own heart that the
storm within was but outwardly suppressed,
not crushed ; ay, more, that a world of
anxiety and excitement — a very chaos of
feelings — were surging in heart and brain.

"No, thanks, cleve Gabrielle," he answered.
'' I could not attend, I can only
think — think — oh, Gabrielle, why does
time go on such leaden wings sometimes ? "

She turned at that from the window
where she had stood, and came to his side.
She had noted this hour past how restless
he was — scarcely ten minutes in exactly
the same position — noted that more than
once he put his hand to his head, with a
look of utter weariness and pain. She saw
even now the passionate movement as he
spoke, and the crimsoned flush of excitement
on the bronzed cheeks, the bright

glitter in the dark eyes that looked into
hers.

"This will not do, mon ami" she said,
laying her soft fingers on his brow, " your
head is aching, I know," — how steady the
low pathetic tones fell — how the woman's
passionate heart within was beating fast
and heavy, — " I shall have you too unwell
tomorrow to travel if — "

Gabrielle ! Gabrielle ! it is for you —
you, for your safety, that I am on the
rack, because I am so helpless to save if
he—"

Her hand on his lips stayed the wild
torrent that was such torture, yet such
happiness, to hear, which might yet carry
one or both too far.

You must not, shall not rack yourself
for me — for my sake you must presently
try to sleep. I shall not let you stay here
till Harford returns, for Dr Neville said I
was not to let you be too late to-night."

But—"

No ' buts " she interposed, with a
faint smile ; "at eleven I shall wheel you
into your dressing-room, and transfer you
to the large couch there. You must enforce
rest on that aching brain of yours — if only
because I wish it."

Douglas looked at her a moment, and
his breast heaved as he turned aside. Was
it sin to love that grand-hearted woman ashe
loved her? Was it shame to her that
he knew he held that heart all his own ?
If it were, was the sin theirs, or on the
head of those who had woven such a
web?

You need rest far more than I do," he
said. " I wish I had not let Harford go —
or the dog."

How her very heart echoed the wish !
She had never before felt so heavy a feeling
of foreboding and dread. But when
eleven struck she opened the dressing-room
door, and wheeled the chair in, up to
the wide, soft couch.

I have let you sit up too long, I fear,"
she said, as he sank back amongst the
cushions.

No, you have not. Now leave me, my
dear, and go to rest yourself."

Not yet. I shall be in the next room,
for you wont even close your eyes while I
am here, you bad boy."

He laughed a little ; but instead of
leaving him she fetched her eau-de-cologne
and bathed his forehead, and wetted the
rich clusters of curly locks, passing her hand
softly through them as she had done after
that accident to the lift ; knowing the
power that lay in her touch, and under its
magic the restless excitement calmed down,
leaving the pain and weariness to assert
their sway ; the hand that had clasped hers
relaxed its hold, the long silky lashes
drooped, the dark eyes closed, and Douglas
Glen Luna sank, first into an uneasy, restless
slumber, then — rare thing for him — into
a deep sleep, unconscious even of the form

that bent over him for a moment — of the
prayer that went up.

Let me die for him if need be, but,
Father above, not him ! not him ! " Then
Gabrielle closed the windows — for it had
grown chill enough now — and passing into
the salon shut the inner door and both
those windows, too, and then threw herself
on the sofa and buried her face.

Oh, Douglas, Douglas ! I am vanquished
utterly ! Sin, shame, misery, it must be ;
but this broken heart can only love thee forever
and for ever."

Crushed by the weight that lay on her,
worn out by anxiety and suffering, she lay
there like a stricken thing until at last,
unawares, sorrow and weariness joined hands
with oblivion and stole upon her heavily — it
might have been for an hour, it might have
been more, perhaps ; but at last there came
into her troubled sleep — if such it could be
called — a painful weight as of a hand pressed
over her breast, impeding breathing, a vague

darkened dream, a great noise in her ears
like the hum of thousands and thousands of
bees, and the baying of a dog through all.
She struggled, moved, flung out her arms,
and, with such a smothered cry as had
never escaped her before, sprang to her feet ;
no dream or fancy ! The dog Angus was
scratching and baying madly at the door
giving on to the corridor, and the room was
filling with smoke that came curling in, it
seemed, at every corner and aperture. The
next second her hand was on the door,
wrenching it wide, to be almost beaten back
for one moment by black volumes of smoke
that rushed in with the faithful animal,
whose frantic baying had awoke her.

My God I the building is on fire ! " A
thousand lives of agony seemed crowded
into those next few moments ! Above,
below, near, far, the awful roar was in her
ears, in the air, in the blinding smoke,
through which tongues of flame leaped up
at the far end of the long corridor. One

thought only filled the heart and brain that
never for one second lost their power, but
rather rose up suddenly stronger a hundredfold
— Douglas — that helpless form within
the inner room. Close to the door the
alarm-bell hung ; she stepped outside, holding
her breath against the choking smoke,
and seized the thick silk cord in a grasp like
a man's ! One desperate pull — one heavy
stroke from the great alarm-bell above the
roof — and the cord came rattling down to
the floor, cut through higher up.

Angus — thy master ! "

Back to the inner door, into the room.
Merciful Heaven ! it was full of smoke — the
floor, the further wall — the very air all
heated ; but she felt, knew, saw nothing
but that one loved, helpless form, half lifted
now on the couch with wide-open eyes, as
she sprang to his side — all barriers gone —
forgotten in that awful moment on the brink
of a terrible death.

Douglas ! Douglas ! for God's sake

come — there is time to save you ! they have
fired the rooms below and the flames are
upon us — "

In that cry all the woman's passionate
love went out to him ; in his answer, spoke
the whole wealth of the man's as he
stretched out one arm to try and put her
back.

There is death in every second's delay.
Leave me ! Save yourself while there is
yet time ! Leave me, I say, Gabrielle ! I
can die ; but, Holy Heaven ! I cannot see
thee perish for me, my one love, my heart's
life''

"I will live or perish with you, I swear
by that God who alone can give me strength
to save us both ! " she said, grasping the
arm he had put out with a strength that
was a man's, not a woman's. " Stand up !
into the chair, or I will lift you. I will not
leave you. Do you hear that crash % "

The flooring of Harford's room behind had
given way, and an absolute rush of roaring

as the flames leaped up through the gap
they had made. Douglas in that moment
had raised himself, resting on her shoulder,
and stepped into the chair.

On, Angus, Gabrielle ! Oh, my darling,
you should have escaped ; but now — "

In under the further door the smoke
poured, and, as Gabrielle wheeled the chair
through the salon, the flooring of the
dressing-room buckled, cracked, and fell in
with a roar like thunder.

On, on now 1 the fire is gaining on them
every half-second ; the flames seem bursting
through everywhere ! They are coming on
behind as they gain the corridor — leaping
up, licking the walls, as if they were revelling
like mad devils on the hideous work
they did — wrapping the floor of the corridor
step by step in its rapid advance, as it burst
through the oaken boards ; the heat almost
scorches the fugitives, and Gabrielle glances
behind ; the dog has reached the wide stone
staircase in which lies her only hope. If life

were to last a thousand years they could
never forget that awful moment.

Gabrielle, my heart, leave me ! You
cannot get this chair down those stairs !
The flames below are almost licking the
balustrade ; your strength — "

Can save you or die with you. Holdfast,"
came the answer, as the firm hands
grasped the handle like a vice and drove the
chair to the stairhead.

On ! on ! behind roared those merciless
flames, roaring, thirsting for those two lives !
Onward went that noble woman, down the
stairway, step by step, keeping the chair on
its two back wheels, the guiding-wheel in
mid-air, with a strength that surely God
gives to some in such moments, never for
one second losing her steady calm, her
perfect presence of mind, though every
moment some falling beam or crash behind
might well have made the boldest quail.
Now the dense volumes of smoke envelop
them, and a new tongue of flame leaps up to

her left, while those behind seem almost to
reach and scorch her dress ; seem, she
cannot, dare not, look back now, but sets
her teeth and moves still onward ; hurry she
cannot, or she might precipitate her precious
charge below. Have the flames reached the
head of the staircase yet — wrapped the
massive stanchions which support them at
the top? They must by this time — they
must be burning now. God of mercy ! is
that hall-door below closed ? is there no
help near, within or without ? Are those
distant shouts and cries that come to their
ears through all the frightful roar of the fire ?
Is that a woman's shriek, somewhere far
below, it seemed ? Is that other a human
yell, a man's frantic shriek of despair, crying
that the shutter bar has fallen, and he
cannot escape ? Do they dream all this in
those few awful minutes on that stairway,
or is it all a hideous reality ? Ha I another
crash — the dog utters a yell of terror and
dashes forward — he has kept a step ahead

till now — a rush of blessed fresh air comes
up through all the fierce heat — she gains
the last few stairs, reaches the hall — the
open hall-door — hears a roar — a crash like a
thousand thunders behind as the whole
staircase falls into the seething flames that
seize their prey, hears a strange hum and
cries — sees, as in a dream, the fire-engines
and a surging crowd, a fierce glare of light,
and dear familiar faces — Harford, and Sir
Arthur, hear Chandos Neville's — "God be
thanked ! Douglas is saved ! " and the
fearful tension, the desperate strength, gives
way ; she hears a wild cheer — knows that
Harford takes the chair from her — and then
all is sudden darkness. Neville lifts her, ina
dead swoon, in his arms, and bears her
away after Harford and the man she has
saved.

Play the engines, but keep back the

crowd ; let not the boldest go near the

burning pile, which no mortal hand can

save ; for inside and out the west wing is

VOL. III. o

blazing, the flames are leaping higher and
higher — they crash the glasses, the windows
fall in — they wrap the wall, mount to the
roof, laughing; disdain at the columns of
water, that can save the rest, but not rob
them of their prey.

Ha ! hark to that ! A roar like a whole
park of artillery — and the crowd gives out
a shout — a yell of wild excitement — as
the whole roof comes crashing in on the
seething mass below. They may get the fire
under now, perhaps ; it has done its work
of destruction, and of God's own vengeance
though no one knows that yet ; no one
knows for an hour or more that of those
who have done this awful deed one is
lying scorched and senseless in the corridor,
to which, barely escaping, she had
dragged her burnt, maimed limbs ; and
the other — ah, who but that Heaven he
had dared so honor saw that frantic beings
with the smoke, scorched with the
flames, beating in fierce despair against the

21 I

shuttered windows and door he could not
find — who heard that maddened cry as the
blazing pile came crashing down — down ?
Only He who hath said once and for all

tie, —

Vengeance is mine : I will repay."

After THE FIRE.

she is coming round at last, Eose ;
and I must go back to Lady
Glen-Luna. You had better
tell her, dear."

As one hears voices and words in a dream,
so those words reached Gabrielle Albany's
ear as the door closed behind the physician ;
and she started half up on the sofa on which
they had laid her — started up with a wild,
dazed look in her large, dark eyes for a
moment, and hurried words.

"Tell me what? Tell me the truth,
Eose. Douglas — where is he ? "

My darling, safe and well in the next

room to tills." Sister Eose bent over lion
directly. "He has been attended to welland
Harford and Sir arthur are with him.
You shall go to him presently, but first — "

"Yes; tell me, tell me," Gabrielle interrupted,
but she shivered from head to foot,
and put her hand to her brow as if to
shut out some terrible sight, "why has your
brother gone back to Lady Glen-Luna ? Oh,
Rose ! oh. Rose ! I heard such a shriek below !
then another! — aery! — a man s cry! Oh,
Rose; shall we ever o;et this night out of our
short and hearing* ? " She cowered down on

o o

the cushions with a strong shudder. " Was
it long: ao;o ? Have I been here lonsj ? "

A long, long time, my dear." The
sweet voice shook beyond her power to
steady — the end she had to tell was such
a terrible retribution. Mrs Albany raised
herself again.

"I am quite myself, Rose," she said
slowly ; " there is too much to be borne and
done for me to give way more than once.

It is in your face. Why lias Dr Neville
gone to Lady Glen-Luna ? "

Because," said Eose Neville, pressing
lier hands against her breast, " she was
found lying in the corridor leading from
the west wing hall to the main building —
lying there senseless — and — and — so frightfully
burnt — so maimed and injured, that
'hands says she cannot live many hours.
Hyacinth and Lady Constance are with
her, but when her mother broke into raving,
Jessie was carried out fainting, and
(hands sent Sir Arthur away. We must
spare him, if possible, the fearful revelations
her ravings make ! "

Go on," said Gabrielle hoarsely ; *' I
know what those revelations are. Where
is the other ? "

Eose put her hand on Mrs Albany's
shoulder, struggling; to steady her own
agitation.

My child, his sin has overtaken him
in its midst. That cry you heard must

have been his. The firemen found in the
ruins the remains — burnt, crushed — "

Oh, my God ! "

She covered her face and buried it in
the cushions, so still for a long time that
it scarcely seemed as if she even breathed !
But, oh, who but heaven could know the
wild tempest of contending emotions that
swept and racked the woman's soul in those
minutes of outward stillness — horror at his
crowning deed and fearful fate — a stern
sense of its just vengeance — bitterness ;
but not one flash, not one memory that
could stir the most momentary regret that
her bondage was snapped asunder — only
above and through all the wild, passionate
sense, that she was free — free at last ! —
that Douglas Glen-Luna's bitter foes were
swept away.

Her first words was a whispered question.

Does Douglas know ? "

All, my poor child ; they all know."
Where are we, Eose ? "

In the east wino;."

Gabrielle rose up, walked to the end of
the room, and came back.

And where is — is the dead man ? "

"They have taken him to the lodge,
my dear. There is Harford at the door
again."

Gabrielle opened it herself, and faced the
courier. The next moment her two hands
were closed in his. and his face was bowled
on them. It was minutes before either
mistress or servant could speak, and then
Harford's voice was almost a whisper.

Will you see him now ? Sir Arthur
has just gone u]^ again to his wife's room."

Davliofht coming; on without looked in
on haggard, ghastly faces ; but she passed
out at once, and stole to the next room.
The first meeting must come, and why
not now ?

Douglas was lying on a sofa, and the
faithful dog who had warned them of the
danger sat with his head laid on his

master's feet, only whining and wagging
his tail as his mistress entered. Ah, poor
heart ! she had meant to be so brave, so
calm, so controlled — to forget the words
that both had uttered when the world
seemed lost, — but for both, their strength
had reached its tether of control.

The light flashed up in those, deep, grey
eyes — her name to his lips.

Gabrielle ! My preserver ! My heart ! "
The next moment she was kneeling at his
side, her slight form locked in his arms,
her face hidden in his breast, with such
deep convulsive weeping as no control or
tenderest soothing could arrest for many
minutes. Nature herself had at last asserted
her power against all the long months
yes, years — of suffering and self-suppression,
and would not be said nay.

He made no effort to check them, knowing
that it was best so, but only, with the exquisite
tact and infinite tenderness of his
great love, soothed by touch of his hand —

of this lips to her brow, as she presently lay
still and exhausted on his breast — ^^the touch
that was no sin now, the noble heart on
which she might alone rest now and forever.


After all that has passed, my darling,"
his soft voice came at last, " it is better
for us both, in the position we must hold
yet for many months — to put aside the
feeling that would have sway, and understand
each other at once. I loved you
almost before I knew it, Gabrielle, and
then — then — God be my witness how I
fought against it, and how could I — I
could not send you from me back into the
cold, wide world to suffer yet more, and if
I had you would have read my secret — "

Not yours alone for long, mon coeur''
she whispered, without moving ; "I read
it all too soon by my own heart. How
could I help loving you when — when you
were — oh, Douglas, Douglas ! God forgive
me ! I was but a human being."

Hush, my heart ! that is passed, and
the future is to come. I may hold you now
to this heart, mine for ever, my wife — and
for your sake and mine this must at once
be understood between us, painful as it is
to speak of at such a time as this ; but,
sweetheart, your position to me, and even
more when we go abroad, would be unbearable
for you — ay, for us both, unless it
is understood between us, and those dear
ones who are with us, that you are my
promised wife, to be wedded as soon it
I can walk from the door of a church to
its altar. To the world without still my
attendant, but to us— heart's dearest, am
I not right?" A low whispered "Yes,"
as she lifted her face to his for a moment,
and then on those dear lips Douglas pressed
one long, passionate kiss, sealing her his
own for ever.

And in that room above the woman who
had wrought so dark a deed lies dying in

such frightful agony that Horror itself
shrank back before Pity ; a sight as fearful
to look upon as for ear to hear her ravings.
Then had come the stupor of exhaustion and
torture, in which Chandos had just returned
for a few minutes to his other charges.
When he got back the wretched sufferer was
raving again, and the first intelligible words
they caught were for the last person they
would have thought.

Fetch that handsome woman who said
he was her husband. I will see Mrs.
Albany ! I will ! I will, I tell you. Hasn't
the fire that's burning heresies, burnt up
her and Douglas ! Some one said she saved
him, curse her ! Fetch her, you, then.
Hyacinth ! Ha ! don't look at your lover,
girl, I will see her."

"Fetch Mrs Albany, Hyacinth," said
Neville quietly. " Lady Constance, will
you kindly replace this bandage while I hold
her ? Hush, Lady Glen-Luna, I must hold
you," for she had struggled in her delirium.

I won't have Jessie here, mind you ; or
Arthur, or — take the fire away ! it's burning
my brain out, and here ! the bed is on fire
and Clifford is sneering;. She was his mistress
— not his wife — no, no. Ha ! she
comes to taunt me, too, with that mocking
scorn of hers."

Into the room came Gabrielle Albany,
chanced from the mother and daughter —
who followed her in — to the physician, and
advanced without a change of face that
could betray how startled she was at the
sight before her ; scarcely recognisable for
the once pretty little Adeline Glen-Luna.

You sent for me, Lady Glen-Luna,"
said the mellow tones, gently, " what can I
do for you ? "

The glittering eyes stared up in that
beautiful face with a fierce glare that
seemed half of sanity, half delirium.

Do ! I. want to ask you some questions
I — " Neville touched Lady Constance and
signed to Hyacinth with a quick, quiet —

Will you kindly see how Miss Glen-luna
is now ? " Whatever the dying
woman might say he dared not leave her.

Ha!" she cried out, " do you think they
don't know what it all means ? Look you,
Mrs Albany, do you know why I put you,
with all your beauty and fascination, with
Douglas Glen-Luna ? "

She knew now what was coming, and as
if — Chandos felt — in mute and touching
appeal to his chivalrous feeling, she rested
one hand heavily on his shoulder as he sat
by the bedside, and answered, —

'' I know."

"Ha! I reckoned well, then; at any
rate you know he loved you — loves you
now — will love you, and break his heart for
you to the end of his miserable, crippled
life — you — another man's wife — "

Heaven ! this is too much' muttered
Neville, starting, but her voice stayed
him.

I know that."

Ha ! And you love him ! you love
him ! You dare not deny it — in shame and
misery you love him — you, Leicester Albany's
wife ! "

The blood flushed over the proud, statuesque
face, but left it instantly ; her answer
came sternly — slowly, —

I loved Douglas when it was sin — I
love him now when the chain is broken.
Leicester Albany lies dead, burned, crushed
beneath the ruins of the building his hands
had fired."

Dead ! dead ! " Such a shriek of baffled
fury rang out as made even those two
shrink. "It is false ! false ! You will tell
me next that you suspected me all through,
as he declared, and that the man who takes
my Jessie's inheritance will be again all he
was, to mock me ! "

*' He will," said Neville, speaking for the
first time, and putting his hand on her to
keep her down in her frantic rage ; " all
these months he has been under my care,

and will recover entirely. Lady Glen-Luna,
for pity's sake, put aside all such — "

She interrupted him with fierce raving
once more, in which all her hatred of
Douglas and Gabrielle blazed forth. She
saw now, she cried, how that woman had
acted a part and played her false from the
first — and won life and strength for Douglas
and he would wed her, while she was in
torture ! And then the strength of mad
delirium gave way again suddenly, and she
sank down groaning in agony that no
medical aid could assuage, which the marred
form did not lose even in the sort of stupor
that followed.

"You must have rest, Gabrielle," said
Chandos. "Go back to Douglas, and send
Eose and Sir Arthur. Poor old man ! if we
can only keep her share in this tragedy from
him ! "

Shall I send her daughter ?" Mrs Albany
asked, pausing.

She should be here," he answered ;

V* she is sinking fast ; she will never speak
again."

Gabrielle left the room, but just outside
Hyacinth was waiting, and she sent her to
Jessie, while she herself went back to
Douglas and his father.

How haggard and stricken the poor old
baronet looked now ; how her heart ached
as she gave her message. It was the first
time they had met since the fire, and, trying
to speak, the father broke quite down ; he
could only put his arms about her, and,
bowing his grey head on her shoulder,
with one choking sob mutter broken
words.

"I know all — you have saved my only
son. I have no words, my child, my
daughter."

And then he went out — up to the
chamber of death above — for she died in
that stupor an hour later, and never spoke
again.

So in trouble and sorrow the sun uprose

VOL. III. P

After the Fire.

once more on the world, and the soft breeze
rustled the leaves, and the birds sang in the
lofty woods as blithely as if there were no
ruins and death in the earth that God had
made so fair.

AWAY ABROAD.

Only a blackened mass of smouldering
ruins where yesterday
the west wing had stood ; but,
happily perhaps for all, there was such absolute
need for instant action, so much to be
done, that there was, after very necessary
refreshment and a couple of hours' rest, no
time to think.

For every reason it was, of course, now
impossible for the travellers to leave for
some days, and, in a brief consultation held
between Sir Arthur — who bore his grief like
the noble gentleman he was — his son, and
Dr Neville and Mrs Albany, arrangements

were agreed upon. Telegrams were at once
sent off to the master of the yacht with
orders to be ready, as they would be all onboard
in a few days, and to Sir Arthur's
lawyer, who, in reply, was down by twelve
o'clock. The funeral of Lady Glen-Luna
was then fixed for Saturday morning, and
late that (Thursday) afternoon the inquest
was held on all that remained of the once
dashing " Clifford Brandon," for by agreement
the real identity was not revealed.
He was identified as Clifford Brandon by
Sir Arthur and Chandos Neville. The wife
he had so foully wronged never saw him at
all, and that night the coffin was, under
the lawyer, Mr. Grey's, superintendence, removed
to London, and interred in a London
cemetery. But on that coffin, and subsequently
on the plain slab that marked the
spot, the name of Leicester Albany was
placed, with the date of his death. So his
evil life passed out, and the place that knew
him knew him no more.

Kind Lady Saltoun telegraphed the
moment she heard the sad news for Jessie
to be sent to them at once, and, as the poor
girl was now really ill, her father and
brother gratefully accepted the friendly invitation,
and sent her away at once with
Howell, the maid.

In Doring, and, indeed, elsewhere, gossip
about the cause of the fire was rampant ;
but though Lady Glen-lungs guilt remained
a secret with those few who had
heard her ravings, it was impossible to conceal
Clifford Brandon's part in the crime,
the motive being easily supplied by the late
events regarding his marriage with Miss
Glen-Luna ; of course it was revenge, and
the intention had been to burn the whole
of the old Hall ; and poor, dear Lady Glen-luna
had been burned in trying to warn
those in the west wing. Is it not bitterly
true that truth lies at the bottom of a well ?
a very deep well, too.

In all this trouble, Hyacinth and her

mother, as well as the two Nevilless, were
invaluable, and Lady Constance was so
softened towards Chandos, so moved by his
quiet devotion, that she veered right round,
like a good vessel brought up sharp into
the wind's eye, and struck her colours to
her daughter's lover. She told him so,
frankly and earnestly, on that Sunday morning
as they walked back from St Agnes the
Martyr's. It scarcely, she said, with tears
in her eyes, seemed a time perhaps to speak
of marrying and giving in marriage, but she
had been so wrong, so mistaken, that she
could not let them part so for many
months ; he should leave England as Hyacinth's
affianced husband, and claim her
whenever he returned. Such a brother and
friend she knew could only be a true and
noble husband to the woman he loved.

So another "curse of Kehama" was
turned into a blessing.

That day also it was settled that the
travellers — now, of course, with Sir Arthur

added to their party — must leave on Tuesday,
the physician speaking very decidedly
on the point, with a meaning glance at
Douglas and his attendant. They had gone
through so much that entire change was an
immediate necessity, even if there had been,
as before, proper accommodation for Douglas.
The removal of the ruins and all else
was left in Mr. Grey's charge. The re-buildings
of the west wine; should be attended
to later.

** And when we come back, Mr. Douglas**
said Harford, the morning they left, " my
long, deepest wish will be fulfilled, I know,
as much as your father's."

What is that, Harford ? "

The courier touched Gabrielle Albany,
and answered quietly, —

That this noble woman should be your
wife ; she is good enough even for you."

Oh, Harford, Harford ! It is I that am
not half worthy of her."

Harford smiled and stooped to pat the

dog. 'M wonder what Madame Gabrielle
thinks," he said ; he had never called her
"Mrs. Albany" since the fire, when he
could possibly avoid it, and Gabrielle shook
her head with a half sad smile ; nothing in
her eyes was half good enough for Douglas
Glen-Luna.

So they travelled to London, and Lady
Constance and Hyacinth Lee accompanied
them right on board the beautiful yacht
and down the river to the More. Then the
parting came, but oh, how different to what
it would have been ! And Gabrielle, standing
beside Glen-Luna's chair on the poop,
said, as they watched the little boat take
the Lees ashore, —

'* Douglas, do you remember your words
that night, * When I leave these rooms,
whether I live or die, I shall never come
back to them, never, never ' ? "

"Ay, sweetheart; I little dreamed how
terribly they were to be fulfilled. Ah, here

comes the dear old father. Is not this my
dream, too, Gabrielle, over the blue oceitn
with you at my side — mine ? "

Surely, yes."

And then they shut off steam, and, with
a fair wind full in her quarter, the yacht
spread her white wings and stood out to sea.

So the weeks and months passed by, and
letters came frequently from the tenants of
the villa at the beautiful old German spa ;
and news that confirmed Chandos Neville's
medical expectation, that his patient would
had, in fact — reached a certain point,
and would take a sudden leap, as it were,
to recovery.

I am letting Douglas try his paces
cautiously, dear Hyacinth," her lover wrote,
a month after their arrival in the Vater-land,
" and with each trial, each day, he
gains beyond my utmost hopes ; of course,
I had been preparing him for it for five
months at Luna Park. In a few days he

will walk the length of the room just leaning
on Gabrielle's shoulder, always on her ;
it is touching to see that sight, Hyacinth."
Later on he wrote, —

"While I write this Douglas and Gabrielle
are slowly walking under the verandah
— his light, firm step as of old, Harford
says. I believe if the truth . were
known, that man thanks God every morning
and night for that fire."

And so do I," muttered Hyacinth, defiantly.
" I'm sure they all must in their
secret hearts. What more does my old
dear say ? "

We had a letter from Jessie and kind
Lady Saltoun, from which we gather that
Fred Saltoun has taken a fancy to Miss
Glen-Luna. It would be the best possible
thing for all parties, I am sure. Sir Arthur
is delighted, and Douglas smiles oddly and
strokes his silky moustache as he says,
Ach,ja wohU'

So the months roll on into the past.

THE TALES OF OUR TRAVELLERS ARE FINISHED
AT LAST.

England,

Sir

Letters from
Arthur."

Harford came out into the
verandah of the villa, from the lovely
gardens of which there is such a view of
the quaint old German town, and fine
scenery bathed now in the glorious midsummer
sun. The baronet. Sister Rose —
dear Sister Rose sans pine, with her sweet
face and tender smile, were seated on a
pretty bamboo bench, Chandos Neville
leaning against a marble vase close by
looking through the Tagehlatt.

"Letters!" exclaimed Sir Arthur eagerly,
** who for, Harford ? — who for ? "

'four for you, Sir Arthur," handing
them from the salver, " two for Miss Eose,
half-a-dozen for you, sir, as usual," added
Harford, smiling respectfully as Chandos
laughed, *' and several for the master and
Mrs Glen-Luna."

Where on earth have they got to,
Harford ? I heard my boy's voice long
ago on the lawn, talking to Angus. Oh,
dear, oh, dear, I suppose he has taken off
his wife for a walk before breakfast again,
and he'll overdo it ; eh, Chandos ? "

The physician smiled and shook his head.

Not now, Sir Arthur, it is full nine
months since we left England."

And five since their marriage," added
Sister Rose ; " doesn't the time fly fast ? "

"There they are, all three!" said
Neville, pointing towards the broad highroad
leading down into the town.

They saw them plainly, dog and mistress

and master, lost for a few minutes behind
the trees, and then the gate below the
lawn opened, Angus bounded forwards, and
they hear the soft, sweet tone —

** Not tired one bit, sweetheart ; how
could I be, with thee at my side ? "

And then the tall, graceful form we have
seen so helpless comes swinging up the
lawn with a light, firm tread, and a new
light in the handsome face, as he bends to
whisper some lover-like word to the beautiful
woman at his side that makes her smile and
colour too, and then as he bounds forward
like a deer to his father s side, revelling in
his regained strength, the tears fill her
eyes and her lips quiver. To her there
is an intense pathos in that very revelling,
for in it lies the retrospect, the story of
his past sufferings.

I am so sorry we are late, dear father,"
she said, tenderly kissing the old man's
forehead, "but you must not scold my
husband."

*' I think we won't scold anyone," said
gentle Sister Rose, " but have some breakfast,
and read our letters."

"Sister Rose, thou hast the right always,"
said Douglas, offering her his hand to lead
her within the sunny room, and Gabrielle
Glen-Luna added wickedly, —

'* Sister Rose knows that some one has a
letter from the sweetest Hyacinth that ever
grew."

So there is, Mrs Douglas Glen-Luna,
in answer to mine, I have no doubt."

And look here," said Sir Arthur, looking
brightly up, " here is one from Jessie and
young Fred and Sir George Saltoun, all to
one point — papa's consent. What say you,
Douglas ? "

The words this time were so at once in
each mind that Douglas, sitting by his
wife, dropped his hand with a tender action
on her shoulder as he answered, —

I say * yes,' father, from my heart."

So do I, dear boy, and it will chime in

well with this autocrat's plans," touching
Neville ; " let's see, what are they exactly,
Chandos ? "

*' Why, Sir Arthur, now that Douglas is
out of the wood, I order, as a final safety,
a yachting cruise for three months, then
travel till the spring in all the warm
corners of the Continent they like."

And then ? " said Douglas.

Why, bring that beautiful wife of yours
home to take the London world by storm,
Mr Impudence, and yourself, too."

And fulfil your promise in toot

What was that ? "

"Well, I drive my blood-horses long
since, certainly, M. le Medicine, but you
said I should drive Gabrielle on the box-seat
of my four-in-hand."

So you shall, most puissant signor,
next season," answered Neville, laughing ;
meanwhile, Rose and I will go back,
and—"

"Change sweet Hyacinth's name. Oh,

Chandos, it is a shame that you would
not let me send you away before this."

Hush, Douglas ; if you only knew the
happiness it is to me to see you restored
to strength ! "

I think I do know, Chandos," said
Douglas, very softly, and clasped the
other's hand in his own.

So it was settled, and that Sir Arthur
should return to England with them, to
be at Jessie's marriage. Parting was a
trial ; but Sir Arthur, as he clasped Gabrielle
in his arms, said, —

My child, it was of you I thought, of
you I hoped, when I said I looked one
day to call my son's wife daughter, and
hold a son of hers in these old arms."

Father, I knew that, then."

There is great rejoicing that next season
in the London head monde, for it has
recovered not only its former brilliant

favourite, by it seemed almost a miracle of
science had gained in his beautiful wife —
the heroine of that not-forgotten night — a
reigning queen of society ; not to know
the Glen-lungs was to argue yourself out
of the elite circle ; not to admire the
beauty of their little son a crime, with the
ladies ; not to have witnessed that meet of
the Four-in - Hand Club, when Douglas
Glen - Luna, with his most magnificent

team of thorough-bred in hand, and his

•

beautiful wife at his side, led off, was to
have missed a sight indeed — not to know
them and the matchless Arabs they rode
was simply to admit that you did not
live, but merely existed. Even lovely-mrs
Neville knee Lee), wife to the well-known
physician, shone a secondary light
beside Mrs Glen-Luna.

One more picture ! of a rich, golden
autumn day, and a noble park and a

VOL. III. Q

stately old hall rising up amongst the
forest giants, and looking as if the ancestral
walls could smile on the fine west
wing that had risen up where the fire had
laid waste ; of a grey-haired old man welcoming
a gay party of guests that are
gathered in the ancestral halls, and a
faithful servant who stands near him
proudly holding his master's little son in
his arms, as he watches them all as if ina
dream. Sweet Sister Eose, who has a
smile for each and all, and carries " Peace
on earth " in golden letters on her pure
brow ; Chandos Neville and Hyacinth,
more saucy than ever as she looks at her
mother and laughs ; and last, but not
least, the noble dog, and beside him,
brilliant, handsome Douglas Glen-Luna,
and the wife he loves so passionately, so
deeply, whose smile is to him more than
all the world.

'' Ah, darling wife, heart of my heart,"
he whispers, drawing her to his breast,

when for a minute they are alone, "if we
must sometimes look back, let it be only
to know to our heart's core that, hand in
hand, and heart linked to heart, we tread
no more on dangerous ground."

THE END.

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, Edinburgh.

WIIIKik Q- &*k V(J>?^»-!i\iMlili4\J i/tfcif J*s.>fail»oV-Ultti \f Af (+4 fUT^^-.^- \ii%\\t

ii,%
