OF Thun

IVLR5ITY

or ILLINOIS


08feK

A STUDY.

BY HENRIETTA A. DUFF,

AUTHOR OF " Virginia : A Woman SKETCH," ETC.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

NEW BURLINGTON STREET.

1880.

Right of Translation lieserced.

CONTENTS

OF

The early and lamented death of the Author has
prevented the following pages from receiving final
revision at her hands while passing through the
Press ; but as the story is complete it seems unnecessary
to withhold it from the wide circle
of friends who loved her, and the Jill wider
one of readers who welcomed and appreciated her
work,

S. R. T. M.

CHAPTER I.

Prelude AND SOLO.

The songs of dead seasons, that wander
On wings of articulate words."

A. C. SWINBURNE.

Somewhere in the south of
France, not very far back from
the high road between Aries
and Marseilles, there stands, and has
stood for centuries, an old turreted castle
called the Chateau de Coulanges. It is
built of grey stone, and has high slanting
roofs, and deep-set windows overrun with

VOL. I. B

flowers, and a jar din Anglais enclosed in a
court at the back.

The country round is very rich and fertile.
There is a river, like a silver thread,
running through it, and innumerable villages
are dotted all along the riverside.
There are miles of vineyards and cornfields,
meadows of flax, and valleys alight
with pink strain and golden maize. The
beautiful waving woods grow close up to
the house, from the uppermost windows of
which you can catch a glimpse of Marseilles,
and its busy glittering harbour,
while beyond gleams the blue unfathomable
sea, welling into the bluer illimitable
horizon.

Nevertheless this Chateau de Coulanges
has a dreary, deserted, " Moaned Grange "
sort of \6ok ; or, at least, it has such a
look in its pictures, for I never saw the
place in my life, only a great many drawings
of it, painted and otherwise, and all
hanging up, nicely framed and glazed, in

the bright trim little sitting-room of an
old Frenchwoman, who had known it and
loved it well in her youth — in the home of
Madame Pleon in fact — Madame Pleon,
of whom we shall see more by and
bye.

The chateau has changed hands since
her day. It has passed away from the old
family, and become the home of some
strangers from over the sea. These
strangers are good people, wealthy and
wise. They have built schools and established
soup-kitchens. They are generous
towards the Church, and liberal towards
the poor, and do more in a year for their
tenants and work people than the last Lord
of Coulanges did in his lifetime. Their
little children go scampering through the
woods, waking up the echoes with their
shrill ringing laughter, and painting out
the shadows with their gay young presence.
Their sons are fine fellows, treading
carefully in their father's footsteps.

B 2

Their daughters are graceful and fair (one
afterwards married the Due de Provence,
and the other an Anglo-indian
officer, whose fortunes she followed in
peace and in war). They are well spoken of
far and near, highly respected, greatly
esteemed ; but the memory of the old
family is still fondly cherished, and their
absence is still deeply deplored — at least,
so says Madame Pleon; and it maybe true,
for it is the way of the world not to know
when it is well off, and to waste itself in
unending regrets.

Do you wonder what all this has to do
with Honor Carmichael ? How the history
of that old chateau in Provence can
affect the simple story of a London clergyman's
child ? Wait and see.

This is one of the strangest things of
life. We can never tell what influences
will touch us, what winds will blow on us,
what strange unexpected beings may be
caught up with us and whirled round and

round in the same turn of Fortune's
wheel. The hand we never grasped, the
man we never met, the life we never heard
of, or only heard of, perhaps, to mock at,
may yet make or mar our fortunes — nay,
may one day rob us of the apple of our
eye, or shower down upon us the golden
fruit of delight.

The waters of the Rhine and the Moselle,
after wandering through many different
lands, meet and marry at last beside
grim Coblentz. Two lives run for years
far apart from each other, and then suddenly
converging meet, and are merged
one in the other for evermore.

Do you understand now ? Can you
catch the sound of the waters ? the meaning
of the song ?

It is the dead hand of Saint Gregory
the Illuminator that can alone consecrate
the living Patriarch of Armenia. It is
always the Past which makes the Present.

Such a bright sunshiny day, though it
was scarcely yet spring. Abbacy there
was gold upon the fields and green upon
the trees, and blossoms, white as hoarfrost
and sweet as May-blooms, strewn
thickly over all the orchards and apple-gardens
in fair Provence. For a French
March is as an English May, except indeed
that his lordship, the sun, is even
then less fickle to the vines than he is to
the hops, and loves better to laugh in the
radiant blue eyes of the south, than to
smile and frown alternately in the grim
grey face of the north.

He was laughing now, laughing broadly
and bravely, as he streamed unchecked
through open windows of the west
salon of the Chateau de Coulanges, laughing
as he danced over the shiny plaque
floor, and touched with his glittering
fingers the hem of a dusky robe, and the
ripple of some soft brown hair.

The owner of the dusky robe and the

soft brown hair, was a girl of about
twenty years of age, with a pair of dark
Southern eyes, and a pale grave face that
had a story in it. She was playing to
herself as she sat before the piano in the
far corner of the room — to herself and
the sunshine only, for there was no one
else present. It was a pretty tune she
was playing, a soft, dreamy, sing-song
sort of thing, full of quaint running
variations, and odd breaks and bursts
of melody flowing in here and there.
But she did not seem to think much
about it herself. She was, in truth,
thinking about something totally different.


By and by the sun sank to sleep on his
bed of crimson and gold, and the church-bell
in the neighbouring village chimed
the Ave Maria, and tolled the death of
another day.

The player went on playing, however,
striking the chords more clearly as the

twilight deepened, and darkness came on
apace ; and the windows being still open,
the music went streaming out, as the
chill cold night air came streaming
in.

She went on thinking too — thinking of
her story, of course. It was a hapless
little story, common enough, but none
the less sad for that. She had loved
once, and had been betrothed to the man
she loved, and all had gone well for a
time. Then her father had interposed,
and the lover had been banished. She
would never see him again, for her father
on his death-bed had claimed a promise
from her, which promise would always
stand between her and happiness, like
the cherubim with the flaming sword at
Eden's gate.

That was the end of her story — at
least, so she thought. But, for once,
Comtesse Edmee de Coulanges was wrong.
There was another chapter to be added toit

to-day, and yet another in the far
future, before the Great Author should
write the word Finis to it all.

But Comtesse Edmee was not so selfish
as to be wholly absorbed in her own
love-story. She would never have another,
but Arlotte, her young sister,
should have one, and a far happier one
than her own. Arlotte' s story should bea
beautiful story, all full of light, and
love, and happiness, the mere reflection
of which would gladden her elder sister's
heart. Yes, she could see the little bride
in her trailing shimmering satins and her
floating veil, her dark eyes alight with
love, and her sweet lips quivering with
happiness. The bridegroom was not quite
so distinct. But then, to be sure, he
need not appear just yet, seeing that the
little bride herself was barely sixteen.
He would arrive in due season, of course.
In the meantime, where was his destined
bride ?

Comtesse Eclm^e rose from the piano,
and went to the window and looked out.
The window gave upon the English garden
and the courtyard. There was no
one to be seen. She went back to her
music.

Little Comtesse Arlotte was accustomed
to ramble about the place by herself.
There were no wolves, not even in sheep's
clothing, in the woods of Coulanges, and
the people round were their own people,
honest, simple, ignorant folks, who troubled
their heads but little about changes
of dynasties or Spanish marriages, but
who had mourned sincerely the death of
Count Armand de Coulanges, their lord,
and who were loyal and true to his
daughters, who now reigned in his stead.
So Arlotte roamed about at her own sweet
will, fearless and free.

At last she came in ; not in her usual
laughing, dancing manner, with a smile
in her eyes, and a merry word on her lips.

but slowly and silently, pushing back the
heavy curtain that hung before the door,
and then leaning against it, and looking
at Edm^e in a strange, sweet, bewildered
sort of way.

Edmee looked up at her and smiled a
welcome. She had been thinking of the
child as far too young yet for a bride,
but somehow, as she looked at her now,
her thought seemed to change. Arlotte
did not look too young to be loved, or to
love either; nay, rather, one might
almost think, but for her secluded life,
she knew already what manner of thing
love was. How strange it seems, thought
Edm^e. Does God put the seed of love
into every woman's heart, so that it shall
be ready to burst and blossom into flower
when the true lover comes to gather and
carry it off ? And then she thought she
would not like any lover to come and
carry off her Arlotte. And then she
suddenly changed her tune, as she had

changed her thought, breaking off from
Beethoven's " Adelaide," and bursting
into an old French troubadour's song,
said to have been written by Charles
d' Orleans when a prisoner in England.
It was a quaint little song, and one that
Arlotte liked well to sing. But it was
Edmee who sang it now — Edmee, whose
ringing, thrilling, pathetic voice her
father had loved to listen to in the old
days, but which had vibrated so seldom
through the rooms of the old chateau
since his death.

''Ah!" said Arlotte, with a little
quivering sigh, as Edm^e came to the end
of the first verse. " How good it is — how
beautiful !"

Edm^e smiled again, and went on singing.


There were many verses to the song,
but the spirit of the refrain was always
the same. Those sung by Comtesse
Edmde might, if translated, run thus : —

"• To others, with their laughter,
And praise that cometh after,

Thy songs may gaily call ;
To me, so sad and lonely.
Oh ! sing for Love's sake only,
Or else sing not at all.

On others and their measure,
Of youth, and health, and pleasure,

Thy smile may gladly fall ;
On me, so sick and lonely.
Oh ! smile for Love's sake only.

Or else smile not at all.
For others' gilded kisses.
And others' bartered blesses, ^

Thy love may be in thrall ;
But me, so poor and lonely.
Oh ! love for Love's sake only.

Or else love not at all !"

After those first few murmured words,
Arlotte stood quite still, silently listening,
with her head a little bent forward,
her soft dark eyes dilated, and her rose-leaf
lips folded together, as though some
sweet, strange secret lay hidden behind
them.

Some secret — yes — surely. A secret as
sweet as a sugar-plum, and as strange as
the bloom of a rare tinted southern fruit,
and fit for the mouth of a sixteen-yearly
child. Only, alas ! sugar-plums have
bitter almonds inside them sometimes,
and the southern fruit may be sour-tasted,
for all its pretty painted rind, as Edmee
knew very well, and as Arlotte knew not
at all, as yet.

There were five long years stretching
between these sisters, (it was a lifetime
to one of them,) and they had been a
good deal separated hitherto, playing at
see-saw with convent life and education
generally. But they were very much
alike, notwithstanding. They had the
same starry eyes and cloudy hair, the
same pure-shaped faces, round of cheek
and chin, straight and low of brow, a
type of face as rare as beautiful, a sort
of face all made of flowers, as Mrs.
Browning has certainly said somewhere,

though, no doubt, in other and prettier
words.

But there the likeness ended. For the
rest, the one sister had looked on death
face to face, and kissed love lip to lip ;
whereas the other had, as yet, scarce
seen so much as a dead butterfly, nor
known aught of love, save her convent
school-friends' rough caresses. Also, to
those who could see the soul behind
the mask, Arlotte was pretty enough,
very pretty, but Edm^e was beautiful.


Thou art late, petites said the latter,
ceasing her music at last, and speaking in
the mildest possible tone of reproach.
Thou shouldst not stay out so late —
all alone."

Comtesse Arlotte smiled, and the close-locked
lips were cleft in twain by the
lightning of a laugh, as the Italians say.

I was nob alone, ma soem\^^ she
answered softly.

Not alone ? who was with thee, then,
coterie F"

Who ? — who ? guess, Edmee. Mais
non, .thou could' st not guess, for even tome
it seems still too good to be true,"
cried the girl, crossing her arms, and
clasping her breast, as if hugging to
herself for the last time her own delicious
secret. *' Who then but ce beau Anglais,
who has been lodging at the ' Lion door,'
in the village, for some weeks past, and
whom it seems thou, or at least mon
papa, knew well in the days of old, but of
whom I have never heard thee speak —
who — who?" speaking very softly and
slowly, as if to draw out the rapturous
words to their furthest sweetest length.
Qui done sera fil, sinon Monsieur le
Colonel Murray ?"

monsieur le Colonel Murray;'^ the words
fell flat upon Edm^e's ears. And yet they
seemed to be echoing over and over from
all corners of the room at once. It was

as if all the goblins and gargoyles from
the turrets outside, had come in to grin
at her.

'* Dost thou remember the name?"
asked Arlotte, eager to talk now that her
secret was disclosed.

Edm^e smiled a little bitterly. Did she
remember ? Could she ever forget ? Cana
girl forget the love of her heart ? But
he — he, her once plighted lover — had he
forgotten altogether ?

Yes — I remember," she answered,
forcing her lips to speak. " Our father
knew him very well once, but afterwards
disliked him. He called at the chateau a
short time ago. He is still here, then?"
she added, growing confused, and feeling
thankful for the friendly sheltering darkness.


Not only still is, but always will be,"
laughed little Arlotte, as she danced
across the now dusky room to the further
corner in which, her sister and the piano

VOL. I.

Still kept company together. " He will
be here always — for I am going to keep
him here always — I am going to marry
ce beau Colonel Murray."

Edmde had known what was coming
before it came. She heard the words
before they were spoken. Women always
do in these cases, I think. The idea had
barely entered into her head, the thought
had not been born a second, and yet there
it was fronting her, full-grown and armed —
an vengeful Cupid with poisoned arrows.

It was like a short, sharp, sudden
passing from life to death. The dead we
fancy know all, the moment they are dead.
The living, we fear, know nothing, however
long they live.

Edm^e was dead. The fair brown-haired
woman with the music-making
fingers, and the soft singing voice, was
dead ; smitten down with a word, as a
bird by a shot. She had thought herself
only half alive before, but now she knew

she was wholly dead. She did not moan,
nor feel any particular pain. Her lips
were frozen, her heart was like ice. She
knew all. She felt nothing. She was
dead.

She had one thought however — even
the dead may have one regret — one
remorse — perhaps even one desire. " Arlotte
must never know," she said to
herself, "Arlotte must never know." It
seemed due to him — to her — above all to
the child herself, that she should never turnover
the pages of that sad old story.

One may live without love of man, she
knew. One cannot live without faith inman,
she thought.

Perhaps she was wrong. Perhaps here
and there one may come across men and
women who are leading, not grandly nor
helpfully, indeed, but contentedly enough,
a sort of vegetable life, without any
special love or faith in them, beyond a
root-like affection for surroundings, and
I. 2

a belief in clailj dewdrops, and showers
in due course. Perhaps it would have
been better had Arlotte known all, even if
it had resulted in some such life as this
for her. Perhaps it would have been
better had Edm^e told all, and not set
herself to spare her — to spare him, for
though she herself was dead, as she
thought, her ghost was still faithful to
the faithless, loyal to the disloyal.

Her hands went on playing a little.
Hands are unsympathetic members, and
have little to do with the head, less with
the heart — which I hope may be taken, as
one excuse for " strikes."

Arlotte stood by, wondering a little, but
not thinking very much about her sister ;
for had she not so many other things to
think about now ?

Why dost thou not speak, Edmee ?"
she cried at last. " Why dost thou not
cease thy playing and wish me joy ? Such
melancholy music as thou art making too !

Please stop now — on that chord — so."
And down went the little warm hands
with a crash, and rested on her sister's
cold fingers, till the echo of the notes
wailed sadly through the room, and died
away at last in silence. " But ah ! mon
Dieu — how cold are thy fingers, ma
sceitr! One might as well shake hands
with a ghost."

Comtesse Edm^e tried to smile — tried
to speak ; but she was a ghost, you know,
so could do neither.

*' One is always cold here, the house is
so dull and dreary," continued Arlotte,
looking round with an amusing air of
patronizing pity. " And we girls are as
dull as the house. We never do anything
or go anywhere. We never visit Paris
because we are Legitimate. We never
have any company here, because we are
jeunes dames living alone." (There was
another reason besides these two, which
Arlotte did not know of, but which

Edm^e did). '' Oh ! it lias been dull-very
dull, but it will be so no longer.
Nous allons changer tout ^a — pious autres,
Charles et moi''

As the breath of the four winds upon
the dry bones in the vision of Ezekiel, soit
seemed was the sound of that name to
the ghost of Edm^e. She remembered
the day when she too had first whispered
it in sweet shy happiness ; she could never
forget the fearful hour when she last
shrieked it in despair. It all came back
upon her now with a thrill and a rush
that sent the hot blood careering and
tingling through her veins. Bone seemed
to join to bone, thought to thought. She
was knit together once more. She
shivered, she shook, she spoke.

Have you then found it so dull, poor
little Arlotte?" she said, gently. "And
since when have you settled to alter it all
you and — Charles?"

*' Since one hour," replied the girl, rapturously,

not noticing the slow grave tones
in which, her sister spoke. *' Since one
hour, Edm^e. Thou wert still in here
making thy music, and we could hear the
sound of it as we stood out there over
against the pink almond-trees. But I for
one did not listen much, for Charles was
talking then. And by-and-by, just when
the sun went down, he took my hands in
his — so — and looked at me — so — and then
he told me that he loved me, and asked
me to marry him — and I — well I — said
yes, of course ; and that, I think, is all,"
added Arlotte, rather at a loss how further
to explain this sudden attachment,
which though born of flattery, and grownup
apace through idleness, and ignorance,
aud ennui, was yet true love on her part,
at least love pure, if weak, because it was
the first, frank, free offering of a young
girl's heart.

*' But why did Colonel Murray meet you
there, hiding himself like a thief behind

the pink almond trees, instead of corainpj
up to the chateau with his heart in this
hand for you to take, mon enfant V^ asked
Edmee, still speaking gravely, and feeling
that she must know all in order that Arlotte
should know nothing.

Dost thou not know, Edmee ? I
thought thou didst ?" returned the girl,
surprised. " Scouted done. He has told
me everything." (Edmee started, but
Arlotte went on quite calmly.) " Once,
long ago, whilst I was still at the convent,
and thou — I forget where thou wert —
perhaps away in the north with our aunt,
Colonel Murray was grand aran avec mon
jmpa, and often and much here at the
chateau. For a whole winter this was so.
At last, in the spring, un beau jour, mon
jmpa hears that his friend is Republican —
that he has fought for the Poles, the Hungarians
— que sais-je — moi onjin for anyone
or any country where liberty is needed
and kings are not. Voila, mon papa qui

est furieux, mon Charles qui est chasse.
There was no explication no scene. It was
a political difference, voila tout. But lie
has a high spirit, mon Charles. He could
not brook being loved to-day and hated
tomorrow. He left the chateau, hen
entendu, he could not stay to be insulted.
But as he went away he vowed he would
return some day, and re-enter the chateau
as a welcome and an honoured guest. I am
going to give him the right to do that,
Edmee— I am going to atone for my
father's strange conduct — I am going to
help mon Charles to fulfil his vow."

This was the story, then ; the story that
Arlotte had been told, and that Edmee
must act before her day after day. Her
heart sank within her, but she took up
her part at once. There was something
so confident, so triumphant in her young
sister's smiles and words, that she could
not have starred or slurred with a word
that crystal shield of innocence and trust.

And indeed wbj should she do so ? The
thing that had happened once could not
possibly happen twice. The man who had
played her false was not likely to deceive
Arlotte. So reasoned she, not being of
Brabant's opinion, and not, alas ! knowing
human nature so well as he did.

At first I felt almost sorry 1 had anything
at all to give," said Arlotte, clasping
her hands across the back of her head,
and peeping into Edmee's white face
through the now almost total darkness.
I would rather have been loved for
Love's sake only,' like the troubadour's
lady, tu comprehends

*' Yes," said Edm^e, still thinking and
reasoning within herself.

*' But it does not matter if there is that
as well," continued the girl, eagerly.
** He said so — he said other things did not
matter if there was only love."

** If there is only love," repeated Edmee.
*' Yes, if there is only love — "

And then Arlotte fired up. She was
not generally quick at guessing other
people's feelings, and she was moreover
blinded by lier own just now. Still sbe
could not help seeing, or rather feeling,
that Edmee was very unlike her usual
self to-night.

'' Why don't you speak, Edmee ?" she
said, rather crossly. *' You have not given
me one good word yet. What are you
thinking about ?"

*' I am thinking — surely you are not
thinking," replied poor Edmee, struggling
and stumbling, and hesitating. She meant
to strike one feeble blow in the cause of
truth, and if that failed, she would hereafter
for ever hold her peace. " Surely
you do not mean to marry a man of whom
our father so greatly disapproved — a man,
indeed, who has told you this much himself."


^' Pourquoi pas ?^^ returned Arlotte,
defiantly, tossing her little brown head.

Our father, as thou knowest, thought
all kings were Dieu donnes, as is our
Henri Cinq. I think otherwise. I approve
of liberty and patriotism, which is
also a kind of love, you know. One must
meet to love, bona soeur, and so one day we
met by the mill, and another day in the
orchard, and to-night, as thou knowest,
beside the pink almond-trees. And then
it was I said I would tell thee all. He did
not wish me to do so at first ; he wanted
our engagement kept a secret for a little
while. But I said I would — I would tell
thee. I knew thou wouldst be glad forme,
and I was too happy to keep my happiness
all to myself."

But Edmee did not look glad.

You are not glad," cried Arlotte, suddenly
realizing that much if nothing else.
*' You are not happy for me. You do not
care, and I wish — I wish — I had done ashe
wished, and not told you after all."
And then the little hour-old betrothed

maiden pulled back the heavy curtain once
more, and disappeared behind it in a passion
of tears, that rained down and extinguished
her smiles as April showers extinguish
April sunbeams.

As for Edmee, she sat in the darkness
thinking still, but waiting no longer ; for
she knew that the child Arlotte would
never come back to her with a dance and
a song.

Arlotte the bride, the woman, the wife,
she would see again, no doubt, but Arlotte
the child never any more.

Love is a king, you say. So he is. But
is he not somewhat of a murderer as well ?
Does he not often destroy our children,
and put an end to our home joys and our
mind's peace ?

CHAPTER II.

DUETTO.

"We wait till the heavens above us,
The flowering earth, or the seas
Shall bring us the soul meant to love us
And hours much sweeter than these."

Colonel MURRAY stood beside
the pink almond trees whilst
Arlotte de Coulanges, his betrothed
bride, tripped away over the grass
and the gravel, and finally disappeared
behind a side-door under one of the old
grey turrets of the chateau.

He was a handsome man, with a pale
dark face and deep set eyes, and a nose

fashioned after a well-known ducal model,
and a fine aristocratic air generally.
But lie did not look like a happy mannor
a successful one, though his wooing
has prospered to-day, and the future
must of a surety seem fair enough in his
eyes. For Arlotte was not only pretty,
but wealthy also, and Colonel Murray
was not superior to either charm.

The sun had set, the shifting shadows
were still at last. The grass grew damp,
the air grew chill, the feathery windblown
leaves stood out sharp and distant
against the clear topaz-tinted sky, the
wet spring blossoms dripped and dropped
all over and about him. But Colonel
Murray stood there, still leaning against
the little frail almond tree, and gazing at
the old grey chateau, with its frowning
battlements, and grim turrets and towers,
for which many a loijau gentilhomme had
fought in the old hard days, and behind
which many a noble demoiselle had lived

and loved, and been wooed and won.
For the De Coulanges lead always been
famous for beau by, and their last descendants
had not broken the good rule. The
only question now was about the loyal
gentleman.

The birds were carolling through still
chill air, bursting their little throats with
their evening hymn. The cows in the
field behind were supping off the short,
crisp grass, and lowing sleepy good-nights
to each other. The dog in the
stables yonder was baying at a baby-moon,
who seemed frightened at the noise,
and inclined to hide its face in the breast
of a friendly cloud. The servants in the
kitchen were clattering and chattering
over their pots and pans, and calling to
each other in high treble voices, and
singing shrilly over their work, as French
servants always do ; but Colonel Murray
heard none of these things.

He stood so still, that a little foolish

bird, born perhaps that spring, mistook
him for some strange new shaped tree,
and hopped about on the grass at his feet,
and looked up at him curiously with
bright black eyes, and. smooth brown
head, quaintly perked on one side; and
meditated, no doubt, upon building her
nest in his breast when her time for nests
should come. But Colonel Murray never
saw the bird. What he did see was a
bell-shaped face, with a cloud of dusky
hair floating round it, and a pair of soft
dark eyes, which yet shone like stars,
and a mouth, curved and curling, like
a crumpled rose-leaf, which had once
been his to kiss ; but which now he had
put away from him for ever.

What he did hear was the sound of a
song, drifting out from the open windows
of the chateau, and over the damp grass,
and through the blossoming branches of
the trees, and on till it fell upon his
ears, as he stood there under the pink

VOL. I. D

almond-tree ; and brought in its track a
whole host of winged memories, as music
always has a knack of doing.

It brought back to him a faint memory
of his baby-life, which had been happy
and bright, and full of music and flowers,
as most children's are, or at least seem to
have been in after years. And then his
boy-life among his brothers, when the
music grew rougher, and the flowers of
no use unless they grew into fruit ; when
his eldest brother, the coward, used to
talk in a quavering treble voice, and turn
pale at the notion of a fight; and his
second brother, the sneak, used to pipe
away in a feeble falsetto, and tell innumerable
tales upside down ; and he himself,
the third, the scamp, used to tumble
into every possible scrape, from which he
would emerge somehow, black from head
to foot, and covered with mire and
mud.

It brought back to him his young life

in the — Guards, when his eldest brother.
Lord MacCraven, had become the Earl of
Macpheintart ; and his second brother,
the Honourable Thomas, the rector of a
fine fat family living ; but he himself was
the scamp still, spending his money like
a prince, drinking like a lord, and laughing
when they told him ruin was staring
in his face.

It brought back to him how that unpleasant
visage left off simply staring at
last, and seized him with a grip, and
bound him hand and foot ; how the Earl
was afraid to help him once, lest he
should be asked to do so twice ; how the
Rector shook his head, and pointed to
his church; and how at last, a debtor
and an outcast, he turned his back on
his native land for ever, as he thought ;
and on his creditors too, he hoped.

It brought back to him one wild winter
spent among Polish snows, and Polish
patriots — a winter full of wild adventures,

D 2

and hair-breadth escapes, and desperate
deeds done in vain ; and then the summer
that followed, a sunshiny summer in a
sunshiny land, where hour after hour
was spent in gathering up gold in gilded
saloons, whilst beautiful women, with
laughing voices went floating by, and the
smell of flowers, and the strains of music
were wafted in from the warm sweet air
outside.

It brought back to him the vision of
a fair young face, seen through the dim,
clouded window of a travelling caleche,
drawn up in a wayside village, beyond the
town of Aries, where he was resting on
his way to Monaco ; of a noble old head
seen beyond ; of serving the travellers in
some slight way or other, rescuing a pet
dog, or pulling down a blind, perhaps —
of the girl's gentle thanks, and the old
man's offers of hospitality — of his first
sight of Edm^e de Coulanges, as she returned
with her father one golden autumn

day, from their annual visit of homage to
the Exile of Frohsdorf.

He was a scamp, you know, forgotten
by his country, forsaken by his friends,
and yet, here was one more chance of
salvation offered to him. He loved Ed-mee
from the first moment he saw her.

He had known many beautiful women
in his day — women of England, haughty
and cold — women of other lands, all fire
and flame, with their sham passions and
pretentious manners, and meretricious
beauty ; but he had never seen anyone
before like this high-born, high-bred
French girl, with her pure, unconscious,
flower-like sweetness and grace — this
Rose of Provence, whom to look at was,
alas ! to long to pluck and wear.

Count Armand de Coulanges received
Colonel Murray most cordially. He was
of a cheerful, hospitable nature, though
he had somewhat slipped out of society
in his old age. There were so few folks

left in the world whose views chimed
with his, he would say, when pressed
upon this point, and a De Coulanges
could not associate with a canaille
deepened in infidelity and new-fangled
ideas of all sorts. Better, far better,
isolation. But there was another reason
also, which was less presentable, perhaps.
The Count had " a cause" to support,
and " a cause" is an expensive luxury.
M. le Comte de Coulanges found it
so. The cornfields and vineyards were
ground down and pressed into silver and
gold, which was sent scudding over land
and sea, into mysterious corners of
mysterious towns, into little back streets
of London, where old historic names were
hanging up over barbers' signs, and
proud Bourbonists were teaching tradesmen's
daughters their parlez-vous at
the exorbitant rate of half-a-crown an
hour. And still more was asked for, and
was scraped together and sent somehow.

He could not help it, ce cher Comte
Armand, as lie was affectionately apostrophized
in those back alleys and
mysterious corners. His whole heart
and soul were in the good work. What
were a few sacrifices in the interests of
such " a cause ?" What, indeed, but an
honour and a privilege. Not that Count
Armand's sacrifices were made at the
expense of others, as some folks' are.
He did not rob his heirs to pay his contemporaries.
His two daughters were
amply provided for by the terms of their
mother's settlement, (they were said to
be great heiresses, but that was not true,)
the rest of the property he might dispose
of as he pleased. But he robbed himself
of a good deal of pleasure by denying
himself to all society, and by refusing to
hold intercourse with any except loyal
and staunch supporters of His Majesty
Henri Cinq.

With Colonel Murray, however, it was

different. He was not a French subject,
and his name, moreover, was a passport.
The faithful old Royalist had once been
in England with his august master, and
had there made the acquaintance of Lord
Macpheintart, the father of the present
Colonel Charles, who was then a little
blue-eyed boy, in a kilted tartan petticoat.
His most gracious Majesty had
deigned to express approbation of the said
nobleman, and instantly the whole clan
of Murray became sacred in the eyes of
the Lord of Coulanges. It was a lucky
chance their falling in with the son of
that estimable minor when their caleche
broke down that autumn day in the village
beyond Aries. He must come to
Coulanges — no, he, Count Armand, would
take no refusal — he must be feted, made
much of; the son of the man whom His
Majesty had praised must learn how
faithful French subjects delight to honour
their sovereign's word.

Colonel Murray's refusal lead been of
the faintest kind. He was in search of
adventure; lie had no settled plans.
The old man had given him a cordial
invitation ; his daughter had seconded it
by her eyes, if not by her lips. After a
momentary hesitation he accepted it, nothing
loth.

Count Armand enjoyed Colonel Murray's
company greatly. He had cut himself
off from society of late, but he had
not lost his taste for it. They talked together
frankly, the younger man especially
so. He told the old man the whole story
of his life, the manner in which his
brothers had treated him, the miserable
minuteness of his younger son's pittance.
He omitted nothing, not his reckless life
in the Guards, nor his debts, nor the
number of his creditors, not even his
gambling propensities ; nothing, indeed,
except those few wild months he had spent
among the snows and wolves in Poland.

Why he omitted this little fact he
scarcely allowed even to himself. He had
a motive for detailing the rest ; had he
no motive for concealing this ? Did he
think the adventures of those few wild
months hardly worth remembering and
relating ? or did he know that of all his
offences, and they were neither few nor
small, this alone, to the old Legitimist,
would be the unpardonable sin ?

Count Armand listened to the young
man's talk most kindly and sympathetically.
He had his motive too. He was
already an old man, full of years and
increasing infirmities, and he leant on
Edmee as on a staff ; but he knew he
could not do so always. He knew that
young girls must marry." Already she
was past the age at which many French
jeune dames have homes and husbands of
their own to rule over ; already she might
have married a page of honour at the
Court of Frohsdorf, or the son of an

exiled Duke, who was giving dancing-lessons
in London, but that neither of
these protestants had seemed good in her
eyes, nor in her father's either, for that
matter. What if at the end a Bonaparte
eagle should swoop down upon his gentle
dove? or what if one fine morning an
Orleanist cock should crow over the light
of his eyes ? or worse still, a red-capped
Republican stain with bloody fingers the
lily-white hand of his Bourbons maiden ?
Grace I the very idea of such a thing
occurring now made him creep — the mere
chance of its happening after his death
would make him turn in his grave !

But here was a way of preventing such
a fate. Here was a young man wellborn,
well-bred, of a family, indeed, concerning
which His Majesty had spoken
highly, a man to whom French politics
had been nothing in the past, but who
was willing to embrace those of the
Count in the future, and who would

gladly consent to live at De Coulanges,
and thereby make Edmee a wife without
her ceasing to be a daughter; it was a
heaven-made husband, heaven-born, head
and what could the old man do
but fall down on his knees and thank God
for the gift.

And Edm^e ?

Edm^e's father was growing old and
more one-idea than ever, but, even he
would hardly have proposed Colonel
Murray as a husband to his daughter
had he not seen how the girl's whole
existence seemed suddenly to beat in
unison with that of the Englishman, and
how her very beauty had deepened, become
suffused, as it were, with light and
happiness, during the young fellow's
residence at Coulanges. It had been
merely a girl's beauty before, pure as a
lily, and fresh as morning-dew ; it was
as an angel's now. Was there yet a
third state into which she must pass.?

Or do some women go through life with
no other experiences save those of love
and happiness, and win a saint's crown
in heaven without having worn a martyr's
palm on earth ? I scarcely think so. It
would not be fair.

Edm^e certainly had no experience of
any sort. She was as ignorant of the
world as Arlotte in later days. She had
seen so few folks, it was natural she
should fall in love with this adventurous
Englishman, you think. She
thought so too, once; but she laughed,
as the thought faded away from her
mind. If she had had the whole world
to choose from, it would have made no
difference. She loved him ; and what can
one do more, or better, than love ?

As for Colonel Murray, it was all pleasant
and smooth enough for him. The
connection was a good one. The wealth
of the De Coulanges was known far and
wide. His brothers heard rumours of

his engagement, and wrote gratulatorily ;
and bis creditors grew patient, and ceased
their clamours for a time. Edmee was
more beautiful, more loving, more perfect,
day by day ; but above all, he loved her —
loved her with that full and rarely stirred
tide of passion which overpowers such
men as he but once in their lives.

There was no one to object to the proposed
marriage. In fact, there were no
objections to be made — not even on the
score of religion. Colonel Murray having announced
himself from the first to be a
Woman Catholic. Half the Murray family,
the best half, of course, had always belonged
to the ancient and true faith. That was
well known. How fortunate that Charles
should have followed the pious traditions
of the elder branch of his family ! The
Abbe Heroine, a dreamy, gentle-eyed old
man, with gold-rimmed spectacles and a
snuff-box, declared himself to be well
satisfied. He had seen some letters which

had passed between Colonel Murray and
his cousin, Father Philip of the Oratory.
He pronounced them to be instinct with
good feeling and piety.

There was one person, however, who
was not quite so well satisfied on this
matter as was the Abbe Heroine. This
was Josette Jozeau, waiting-maid to
Comtesse Edmee, a handsome young woman
with a fine strong will of her own, and
even some sort of genius about her, but
with only two feelings of affection in her
composition. One of these was lavished
upon Comtesse Edmee. The other had
long since been bestowed upon a certain
young fellow in the neighbouring village
of Belle-Fontaine.

This young fellow, who was steady and
well-thought of, had been for some years
servant to the Protestant pasteur in that
village. Suddenly he threw up his situation,
went off to sea, and was heard of
no more.

There was a great deal of talk about
this of course. But there was less, perhaps,
than might have been expected, for
several other strange things were happening
just then, and even villagers' capacities
for gossip are limited. Another disappearance
had occurred from the house of the
pasteur, which excited far more attention
than that of Pierrot, the servant. This
was the sudden and prolonged absence of
a young German lad, Herman von
Eeichanau, who had been living for some
months past with the pasteur of Belle-fontaine
for the purpose of learning
French. He was the eldest son of a wealthy
and noble family, and a great fuss was
naturally made about his disappearance.

The people round were sympathetic ;
Colonel Murray, who had become acquainted
with the boy during his residence
at the " Lion door," in the village of Coulanges,
was untiring in his investigations,
and worked away at the matter with all

the ardour of an Englishman. But no
trace of the boy was discovered.

He was a weak-minded young fellow, so
at least the villagers used to say, and not
over generous with his money, though he
seemed to have plenty of it. Latterly too
he had become addicted to drinking, and
to worse things perhaps, also, for he
would be seen reeling out of the " Lion
door" with his pockets turned inside out,
and his thick uncouth German voice rolling
out the words, *' Ruined ! ruined !"

These may have been idle tales, however,
for the boy was not popular among
the villagers, who perhaps even then
cherished an instinctive hatred to Teutons,
and who soon settled among themselves
that he had come to an untimely end
somehow. And then, as they had the
delightful topic of the fiangailles and
approaching marriage of the young lady at
the chateau to jabber about over their
washtubs and their cabbage soup, they

VOL. I. E

put the thought of this mauvais sujet out
of their heads altogether, just as they had
already forgotten V affaire of Josette's
young sailor.

With Josette, however, it was different.
It is hard to have to lose a hand, or an
eye, and to the sailor's deserted maiden,
this lopping-off of her object of affection
was like losing one of those members.
Nothing could replace it. This was the
real thing, she would say pathetically,
anything else would be but a sham. Now
and then some jaunty anson at the " Lion
door," or some jeune fermier from one of
the villages round would humbly bow
their knees before Mademoiselle Josette.
But she would send them to the right-about
fast enough. She did not give
away what belonged to her Pierrot. She
did not know how it was with him, nor
where he was, but she did not believe him
to be in the land of the dead. He might
return any day and claim his own. She

must needs save all she could of love for
him —all indeed that was not already bestowed
upon Comtesse Edmee.

And so it chanced, that even for little
Comtesse Arlotte, Josette the maid had
no particular affection, except in so far as
the younger sister belonged to the elder.
*' La petite was a beautiful butterfly," she
would say, just as her would-be adorers
were, to her, as teazing gnats. But
neither the one nor the other was for
Josette Jozeau. She was born to stand
alone. She was destined to coffer Sainte
Catherine. She was not to be molested,
nor lightly spoken of in her presence.
These were the resolutions passed upon
her by the servant's parliament. She was
desirous of reducing her mistress to the
same old-maidish condition in which she
existed herself, these law-givers added
one day, observing the black look she bestowed
upon the young Comtesse' s lover.
To all of which Josette was silent. She

V E 2

had no love to spare, but it was evident
she was not equally destitute of its antithesis,
nor at all stinting in its use.

She was forced to be silent, however.
She dared not speak in her "lady's
chamber;" she would not speak in the
kitchen. But though she did not utter a
word, she sighed very often, and gazed
long and wistfully into her mistress's
bright happy face.

But Comtesse Edm^e took no notice.
She was fond of her waiting-maid, who
had been for a short time her mother's
also. She trusted implicitly to her taste
in millinery and even in confectionary.
But in the matter of choosing a husband,
she preferred exercising her own judgment.
And who indeed should say she
was not right ?

And yet, perhaps, even in this matter
Josette, the maid, might have had better
means of judging than her mistress. In
the first place, her eyes were not blinded,

nor her ears stopped by love. Secondly,
her sister, who was cook-maid at the
Lion door," was neither deaf nor dumb ;
and thirdly, her mother, who lived in the
village of Belle-Fontaine, was well-to-do,
much respected, of a sociable turn of mind,
given to gossip, and the cronies of all the
cronies.

Neither Count Armand nor his daughter
were unaware that certain stories, not
altogether of a creditable nature, were
circulated in the village concerning the
Englishman who was about to be connected
with their family. It seemed to them
that villages were always sinks of gossip,
or rather that such a place as Coulanges
must be a very paradis des hazards.
There was no sort of skilled work done in
it, only the ordinary agricultural labour,
and what else had the peasants to do but
talk, and talk, as they delved and spun,
(I wonder whether Adam and Eve gossipped
about the loves of the beasts in the

garden of Eden?) using their tongues just
as they used their hands. So, at least
thought Count Armand and Comtesse
Edm^e. And in truth, all over the
world, what is there sweeter to a
peasant's tongue than picking a prince to
pieces ?

So it came to pass on a windy March
day, when the sun was shining, and the
birds were singing, and the flowers budding
and blowing, and all things round seemed
full of sweet young love, and strange new
life, Charles Fitzroy Fits-Alan Murray,
and Marie Edm^e Valentine de Coulanges,
were betrothed.

For three days, Life was Love — Love
was Life — Love was enough.

On the fourth day, a cloud gathered — a
storm broke. The birds' nests were
blown down, the flower-heads were broken,
love was torn asunder from love by the
blast of evil tidings, and the fury of an
old man's wrath.

How the news came, Colonel Murray
never knew. Perhaps Josette did. But
it did not matter, for they were true. It
was true he had fought for the Poles —
for liberty — for patriots — for rebels — for
whatever the Count in his fury chose to
call them. It was true that his principles
had been republican — true, that he had
cast in his lot with that party — true, that
he had served them with his sword, and
his purse. It was all true.

And then the Count, who had overlooked
so much, became inexorable. He
stormed, he raged, he was carried out
of himself. He — to have for a son-in-law
a man who could hire himself out
to fight for revolutions in every country
in Europe ; he — to give his daughter to a
man of no politics, no faith, no religion;
he, Count Armand de Coulanges, the
most loyal subject of the last of the
Bourbons, and the chief supporter of the
Right Divine — never —never — never.

Colonel Murray's face grew grey, but
he answered no word. He wound his
arms round the weeping, frightened
Edm(^e, he strained her to his heart, he
bade her a fierce farewell. Then he put
her away from him abruptly — reeled to
the door like a drunken man, and stood
there for a moment glaring at them, and
swearing that he would have his revenge
some day, and re-enter the chateau
once more, if not by right, then by
might.

The girl winced and whitened, and
shook before his words, like a leaf in a
storm.

Oh stop, Charles !" she cried. " Oh
don't say that, Charles, mon ami'' And
then she gasped for breath, and stretched
out her hands feebly, as though she
thought thereby to stem the torrent of
burning words that were raining down
like hailstones from her lover's lips on
her father's head.

He caught her hands in his. He was
beside himself with rage and passion.

You too," he said bitterly, looking at
her ; " you turn against me too, oh,
Edm^e," he cried, tearing from her finger
the ring he himself had placed on it only
three days before. And then, he flung her
from him once more, and fled away down
the old oak stairs, and through the
budding chestnut woods, and so out into
the open country beyond. And wherever
he went, that cry, " Oh, Charles, Charles!"
went with him too, ringing in his ears forever.


It was four years to-night, as he stood
beside the pink almond trees, since that
night when he was banished from the
Chateau de Coulanges. And in those
four years many things had happened to
both of them.

In those four years Edm^e had known
suffering and sickness, and looked upon

death ; but had never seen sign of lier
absent love, nor beard whether he were
alive or dead, faithful or faithless.

Was it any wonder then, that weary
with waiting, and sick at heart with
hope deferred," she should give in
at last, and utter the promise her father
had been craving so long, and which he
now demanded with his dying breath ?

"iWaj^/Ze," he said, feebly, groping for
her hand, and closing his own over it,
"thou hast had much to try thee, but
thou art strong yet. Promise me, now,
before I go bence and be no more seen,
that thou wilt never wed that evil-disposed
Englishman, to whom thou wert
once betrothed — never, if thou can'st help
it, see him, or speak with him, or admit
him within these gates again. So shall I
sing my nunc dimittis.^'

Then Edm^e, stooping down, till her
warm breath fanned his cold cheeks, and
her trembling lips touched his pale damp

brow, murmured in a low clear voice, for
she too had known the old song in the
old days:

Mon pere, je te le ]coronets, jamais, oh
jamais jolus.'^

Colonel Murray was at Baden-baden
pursuing his old trade, when the news
of the death of Count Armand de Coulanges
reached him.

He let a few months go by — the months
of mourning. Then, whilst the year was
still young, he went back to the chateau,
full of resolution, but vague of purpose.

He went up the well-remembered chesnut
avenues, and along the garden-path.
He rang at the great gates, and sent in
his name, and waited.

The Comtesse Edmee was sitting
alone when the name was brought
to her. She was startled, of course, but
she was somehow prepared for this, too.
She had felt when she gave that promise,

that its strength would be tested some
day. She refused to see him.

He tried again and again the next day,
but always with the same result. He
even tried to bribe Josette, the maid, to
admit him privily to her lady's presence.
But the faithful waiting-woman turned
from him with loathing and disgust.

He felt if he only could see her for one
moment, face to face, his wishes must
triumph. Perhaps Edm^e felt the same.
She dared not trust herself to see him
again. She even gave up her usual walks
and drives, lest she should meet him unawares.
Hence it was that Arlotte had
wandered about by herself so much of
late, whilst Edmee had waited for her at
home.

Gradually, and by slow degrees, for a
woman's persistency is not flattering to a
man's self-love, and is generally called by
him obstinacy, Colonel Murray began to
discover that there was no hope for him.

One day, as he turned away from the
closed doors, someone threw open a casement
window, and looked down at him
wonderingly. He, hearing the sound,
looked up, and saw a girl standing behind
a creeper-hung window, her face
peeping out like a white flower, through
the cloud of clematis and ivy. It was a
pretty young face, like Edmee's, yet not
hers. A face less sweet, less tender, less
thoughtful than hers had even been ;
but yet a face foolish enough to love, fair
enough to woo.

As he looked up and saw her standing
there, half in the sunshine, half in the
shadow, half child, half woman, a cruel
thought crept into his heart and took
root there. He turned away from the
chateau, and swore once more he would
take that which his hands coveted, even
though he sold his soul by doing so.

He was a desperate man, ruined, deserted,
and that which might have saved

him even now, had turned against him
for ever. But the world was not worn
out for him yet, and if he might not
have love, he would at least have life,
" a soft life full of pleasurable ways'*

In those past four years he had played
high, and lost more than he had won.
His brothers had grown incredulous
concerning his reported marriage, his
creditors rampant. Whatever he did he
must do quickly.

He had done it to-night.

He had done it as he stood over there
beside the pink almond-trees, while the
music came floating out over the flowers,
and a young girl's hands were caught in
his, and a young girl's face was uplifted,
and looking at him and wondering. It
was a fair young bride he had won; it
was half the corn-fields and vineyards, the
woods and rivers around; it was a safe
future, an assured fortune, and yet the
voice in his ears was not Arlotte's happy

little whispering " yes," but Edm^e's despairing
shriek, *' Oh, Charles, Charles,
mon ami /" the words on his lips were
not murmurs of happiness, or blessings on
his bride, but deep-drawn curses for
himself, and a cry that echoed back the
other, V' Oh, Edmee ! Edmee, my lost
love !"

And then suddenly, as you know, the
song ceased — dying into silence, as a star
disappears into space — as light goes out
into darkness — as joy is turned into pain
as hope is lost in despair — as love
never ends — never dies, alas ! but goes
on gnawing for ever.

.^>p^

TRIO.

'^ Hope, memory, love.
Hope for fair morn, and love for day,
And memory for evening grey
And solitary dove."

CHRISTINA Rossetti.

ILL you vow to be safe from
the headache on Tuesday, and
think it will hold ?
No — not you.

But you will promise never to wed
that man, always to love that woman,
and fondly imagine that you will never
have a headache or a heartache about
them (or at least, never show it, if you
have one) all the days of your life.

Stop ! there's the point. A headache
is difficult to hide, one's cheeks grow so
pale, one's eyes so dull and heavy. Buta
heartache — pouf, anyone can hide a
heartache ! It only needs a little more
laughter than usual, a gayer song, a
wittier word, a fonder face than one's
wont, and the thing is done.

There were a bleeding heart and an
aching head in the fair domain of Coulanges
in those days; but no one knew
anything about them except their owner,
so the vow and the promise, the ache
and the pain, were well kept, and well
hidden.

Arlotte guessed nothing. To some
people love is as spectacles, through
tvhich they see better and further than
ever they have done in their lives before.
To others it acts like blinkers, whereby
they can only see that which lies
immediately before themselves. Arlotte' s
case was the latter one. She was a

VOL. I. p

mere child still, and her whole soul was
absorbed by love. It was not a very
big one, and there was not much room
in it for other thoughts. When one is
basking in the full blaze, and haze, of
summer sunshine, how should one think
of the eternal snow-hills, nigh at hand
though they may chance to be ?

And so the sisters changed places in
life, as people often do, like partners in a
quadrille, and the two who had tripped the
same measure together previously, made
no sign.

It was true they never met, never
touched each other's hands or crossed each
other's paths in that dance of life. Had it
been otherwise, could Edmee have kept
her own secret or his honour? There
was some good in that promise made to
the dead after all.

It was his honour she was most anxious
to keep sacred. He had betrayed her, but
that was her fault as much, if not more.

than his. She knew nothing of his life,
and she had seen too little of men to be
able to guess at his nature. She only
knew she had loved him once — loved him
still, alas ! though she tried to think she
did not.

The sisters were, as Arlotte had said,
^^ jeunes dames, living alone;" and the
elder cared as little as the younger potter
la politique which had been the cause of
the quarrel between Colonel Murray and
her father. She knew he had suffered.
She felt as though she had sinned against
him in that matter of the promise ; and
now that Arlotte was going to atone for
it, should she not be content ? Provided
that the beloved one were blessed still, if
not by her means, then by another's, what
signified the rest ?

It was not for a long time that she
could bring herself to look at things in
this light. But she meant to try and do
so. She meant to light this candle when

2

ever she wanted to read that story of
hers. It was a false light, and she was
reading her story upside down, as so
many of us do, but there was something
sublime and heroic about it too. Only,
alas ! heroism does not seem to be of
much use now-a-days, nor love either, for
that matter !

And so the dance went on between these
two (and there was no tripping or stumbling),
till it ended at last as such dances
should do, in a peal of marriage-bells and
a dazzle of summer sunshine, and Charles
Murray took Arlotte de Coulanges to be
his wedded wife, and the music changed
its measure and another dance had begun.

Then, and not till then, Colonel Murray
re-entered the chateau, and found
himself once more within the well-remembered
hall, with its tapestry hangings and
carved outwork. Then, and not till then,
he stood before Edmee, and touched her
cold hands, and looked into her pale face.

and found it, even in that moment, fairer
to him than the young undimmed beauty
by his side. For Arlotte was there, struggling
with the floating end of her veil,
which had become entangled with a stray
sheet of tapestry that was hanging loosely
from the wall. She had dropped her
handkerchief too, and half her flowers as
well, for she was one of those unlucky
people who always come to pieces somehow,
and have a knack of shedding their
feathers wherever they go. The consequence
was, that she was too much engrossed
with her own unhappy condition
to have any attention to spare for the
meeting and greeting taking place between
her husband and sister ; nor did she notice
how grey and ashen grew the face of one,
how faint and tremulous the words of the
other.

Unloose me," she said, a little petulantly.
'' Oh ! what a dust !" and then
she let fall her missal-book as well, and

the clasp flew open, and the binding burst,
and all the leaves and little pictures of
angels and saints went flying and scampering
away through the dust. '' Is that
an ill omen, Edmee ?"

It is an omen that the chateau does
not want to lose you, joetite,'' said Edmee,
clasping the child-wife in her arms, and
burying her face in her shoulder, as if glad
of that friendly shelter. " And never
mind about the little missal-book ; you
shall have mine."

Colonel Murray carried off his wife to
England immediately after their marriage.
His brothers had smiled upon him again,
and invited them to their houses. He
paid his visits, but not his creditors. Paying
bills of such long standing seemed to
him a grievous waste of money, and as
the people had waited so long, they might
as well wait a little longer. He could not
quite tell the state of affairs yet, but he
had already discovered to his dismay that

Arlotte's fortune was by no means so
large as lie had imagined it to be. All
the monies the old Count could dish ose of
were vested in various funds for the relief
of those noble exiles before alluded to.
His daughters were possessed of ample
fortunes, on which with prudence they
could live luxuriously, though not exactly
in the manner Colonel Murray had pictured
to himself. And prudence, alas !
even of the faintest, feeblest description,
was not one of little Mrs. Murray's
virtues.

She must have bonnets like those worn
by her sister-in-law, the Countess of ,
and a horse to ride in the morning,
and a opera-box at night. She would
like to establish a school and almshouse,
like those set going by Mrs. Thomas
Murray, the Rector of Littleton's wife.
She wanted to buy a basket-carriage for
the ancient nurse of the family, who told
her apocryphal tales of the exceeding

beauty of the Honourable Charles in his
early infancy, and who was rather better
off, in many ways, than the Honourable
Charles' wife herself. She ordered velvets
and furs, and silks and laces ; dressmakers
in broughams visited her, milliners
with liveried pages carrying neat
boxes called upon her ; and would not ce
cher Charles buy her that set of sapphires
she had seen in Emmanuel's shop — it
would go so well with her blue velvet
dress, trimmed with point d'Alen9on?
There was no end to her wishes, and as
they had always been gratified hitherto,
having consisted chiefly of a desire for a
stick of Sucre de pomme from Belle-fontaine,
or a new ribbon for her poodle, she
pouted and pined when told her wishes
were impossible now. I suppose the first
conjugal quarrel is always more or less
nearly connected with " clothes," and I
make no doubt Eve would have shed bitter
tears in the garden of Eden had Adam

ventured to stint her in the quantity or
quality of her fig-leaves.

Colonel Murray, however, had no scruples
about venturing, but spoke to his
wife sharply enough, as men always do
when they have done a foolish thing, and
feel that some one ought to be blamed for
it. Poor little Arlotte was frightened.
No one had ever spoken to her thus
before. She never thought anyone could
or would do so. She cried, and sobbed,
and went down on her knees, and prayed
Charles to sell her dresses and diamonds ;
finally she made herself ill, and then there
was the doctor's bill to pay. Colonel
Murray took her diamonds, but not her
dresses. Something must be done, but
what he knew not. He was at his wits'
end, which was not to be wondered at,
seeing he had been living on them so long.
He was growing reckless and restless once
more.

When Arlotte grew a little better, she

wanted to go back to Coulanges and
Edm^e; but this Colonel Murray would
not hear of. " There would be parties to
give, and parties to go to, and the devil's
own bill to pay," he said roughly, and
then he proposed Baden-baden. The
waters would do Arlotte good, he said.
The poor little wife trembled at his words.
She would go anywhere he liked," she
answered meekly. " Anywhere that was
cheap'* Her poor little spirit was
broken.

And so one sunny day, before they had
been married a year, and while the spring
was still young, the flowers were just beginning
to peep out like stars athwart the
shadows of the Black Forest, and visitors
were beginning to fill the hotels, and the
gilded saloons, and the music garden.
Colonel Murray and his wife found themselves
running smoothly along the horse-railway
from Os, skimming past the cottages,
and through the fields of maize, and

landed at last at Baden-baden. And
there they remained some time, for the
sake of *' cheapness," as Arlotte had said;
and for something else besides.

All that winter and early spring, Comtesse
Edmee had lived at Coulanges alone.

She had constant letters from Arlotte,
on which she lived, I think — letters which
told her that the child-wife was well and
happy, that her husband was kind to her,
that she liked England very much — would
like it perfectly, in fact, if only Edmee
was with her there. And with these
letters the tender sister was content.

By-and-by they became shorter, and
the spaces between them longer. Arlotte
had been ill. Her husband's relations
were not so kind to her as they
might have been. They were cold, like
their climate. She would never get well
in England, and longed, oh ! how ardently,
to return to the chateau, and so on, and

SO on. They were dreary little letters,
abrupt and sad, but Edmee, being slow to
think evil, still forced herself to be content.
And so the long black winter days
rolled away, and the birds began to
twitter, and the trees began to bud, for
the spring-tide was at hand once more.

Comtesse Edmee had a dream one
night — a horrible, hateful dream that
haunted her soul ever after.

This was her dream.

She dreamt that close upon her bedtime,
one wet, windy night, when the
world seemed to be wearing itself out ina
passion of tears, and all the demons of
the air were howling and gnashing their
teeth as they went sweeping and swirling
round and round the walls of the old
chateau ; that she was sitting in the
little down-stairs salon, where the windows
run down to the ground, and
the jalousies are easily opened from the
outside, sitting alone with a book across

her lap, and her hands closed over it, and
her thoughts travelling far away back
into the unchangeable past, or into
the uncertain future — anywhere, out
of the present — when suddenly a window
behind her burst open and a gust of wet
wind filled the room, and all the demons
came rushing in, and a man as well, who
clasped her in his arms and spoke to her
wildly, and said that he was mad — ruined
lost for ever — set upon suicide, bent
upon crime, from which she, and she
alone, could save him.

In the name of her once living love, he
kissed her, by the power of his undying
passion he pleaded ; and the face that met
hers was the face, and the voice that
spoke was the voice, of Colonel Charles
Murray.

She dreamt that she loosened herself
from his arms and pushed him away a
little, till he sank upon his knees before
her, and she looked down upon him pitifully,

as a departed spirit might look upon
one it has loved, and lost, and left forever.
She dreamt that she bade him rest
awhile, and fetched him food and wine
with her own hands, lest the household
should be startled, and the servants
scared. She dreamt that she got together
all the money she could, and brought it to
him, and promised him more soon, at once,
tomorrow. And then, speaking for the
first time of his poor young wife, she
opened one of the long low windows and
let him out into the starless, shadowless,
weeping night, and bade him ^' begone"
in the name of Arlotte.

And after that dream, it seemed to
Edmee that she lay awake, tossing and
trembling all the rest of the night.

In the morning, Josette, the maid, told
her mistress that the servants had heard
strange sounds at midnight, as of voices
talking together, and doors shutting, and
windows opening, and that Baptiste coming

in at daybreak with his milk-pails, had
found a handkerchief lying on the grass
under the windows of the little salon.

The handkerchief was marked " C. M."
Comtesse Edmee saw it at once. Josette
must have seen it too.

She must never know, Josette," cried
Edmee, wildly. The dream and the sleepless
night had made her feel so faint and
foolish, she scarcely knew what she was
saying. " She must never know, you
understand. It would kill her."

It went near to killing Comtesse Edmee,
nearer indeed than her faithful waiting-maid
had any idea. For the rest, she
understood well enough. She understood
that Comtesse Edmee was a saint on
earth ; but that she had known a longtime.
She understood that Colonel
Murray was a fiend in man's shape, but
she had known that too. As for Comtesse
Arlotte, it was sad for her, of course,
poor little butterfly, but she was vain and

foolish, and had not much heart, and no
perception at all, or she would have read
her sister's story even in the midst of her
own happiness ; so she would probably feel
nothing now, and was in truth not worth
the trouble she was giving. So, at least,
thought Comtesse Edmee's waiting-maid,
who, like all her kind, saw much, but
unlike them, said little.

All that day a thought which had come
to her during the night tarried and abode
with Comtesse Edmee. It was no new
thought, it was indeed a thought that had
been born in her during that past lonely
winter, and that had lived with her many
a weary day then. But then, then she
had put it away from her — then she had
refused to let it take shape or form — then
she had said, " I may be dead, indeed I am
dead to the world, but I will not be buried
in a convent. I am not worthy of such a
vocation. Such things are for holier,
stronger women than I am. For me, oh !

for me, let titer e be another kind of life,
lonely indeed, but brightened by the presence
of those I love."

So she had prayed in the old days,
struggling, and striving, and wrestling
against her fate, and thinking, as we all
do, that she might choose her way of life
and hold to it.

But now — now, when her life seemed
all at once to have become an accursed
thing to those she loved best — now,
when her very body was, as it were,
cumbering the earth, and she only longed
to get rid of herself — the prayer died
away on her lips, and the old thought ran
back into the old words : *' I will go to
my mother's country in the North, and
join my aunt there; I will stay for a
time, at least, with the Holy Sisters of
Notre Dame de Bon Secours."

She felt she could not trust herself to
see Arlotte, or Arlotte's husband again.
Brave and careful as she had been

VOL. I. G

hitherto, the strain would be too great
now. She understood Charles Murray at
last. A word, a look, a sign, even, might
betray him and all his ghastly falseness
to the unsuspecting eyes of his innocent
young wife. Together they might
live happily enough, such things had
been before, and Arlotte's little heart
needed but a drop of love to be content ;
but with her standing beside them it
would be different. Unwillingly she
might absorb that drop of love, might
divert it from its rightful channel.

No, it was best so. It was well
there were such refuges for broken
hearts and useless lives. She would prepare
herself for her profession. A nun's
life was a beautiful life, and once within
the convent walls she would find peace.
She would find work too, she hoped,
which was a better thing, she knew.
There would be the poor and sick to
tend and nurse, there would be children

to teach and young girls to train, and
here and there, perhaps, some aching,
throbbing heart, tossed about and troubled
as hers was now, to comfort and cheer.
^o one had helped her, but it might be
her part to help and guide others by the
light of her own experience. It might
be for this, perhaps, that she was suffering
now.

She made her arrangements quickly.
She kept them a secret. It was of no
use to consult anybody; it could only
shake her determination, and not do anyone
any good. A certain sum of money
was to be handed over to the convent;
the rest of her fortune was settled upon
Arlotte and her husband. That, at least,
would be of use to her sister's husband,
she thought, a little bitterly, as she
signed the papers. It was the first fruits
of her sacrifice, she knew, for she did
not hide from herself that her heart was
not wholly in that which she purposed

G 2

doing. When all was arranged, she
wrote a letter to Arlotte, in which she
bade her farewell, and told her of her
determination, but not of her destination.


*' Do not seek for me, iwtite,^' she
wrote, and the paper was blotted with
her tears. "It is best so, believe me,
best for thee, and best, indeed, for me.
Earthly love must not intrude upon the
trance of heavenly love. Think of me
sometimes a little tenderly, and forgive
me if this gives thee pain, and remember
that always my fervent, unfailing prayers
will be for thee and thine."

The letter ended abruptly, for Edm^e
could write no more. She sealed it up,
and sent it, together with her livre
heures, to Mrs. Murray, at Baden-baden,
and then taking Josette, her maid, she
travelled away to Northern France, from
where Arlotte' s name had come, and where
her mother's sister still lived, being a holy

woman, and the Lady Abbess of the Convent
of Notre Dame de Bon Secours, at
Pierreport.

Arlotte was frightened when she read
Edmee's letter. She could not understand
it at first, and when at last she
did so, she became still more frightened.

Edmee had no vocation for a convent
life," she said, bewildered. 'rit is only
people who have committed crimes who
become nuns at such an age." (Edmee,
with her five years' seniority, was a person
of extraordinary longevity to the little
wife.) '' What has she done ? Oh, can't
we stop her, Charles ?" she cried, wringing
her hands helplessly.

Charles laughed, a horrible, mocking
lausrh that Arlotte had heard often of
late, and always shivered under.

How can we stop her, child, when
we don't know where she has gone ?" he
said, in a harsh, grating sort of voice.

And then he turned and left her all day
alone, as his way was.

He had understood at once, but he
scarcely knew as yet what his own feelings
were. Passion, rage, mortification,
grief at having lost her, pride in the
thought that it was his love that had
driven her into a convent — all these feelings
were warring together within his
breast, and it was impossible to tell which
was the dominant one, or which would
conquer the rest. And then there was
the money — that was something, at any
rate, and there before him rose the
gilded hells in which he might lose it,
and himself too, for a time, at any
rate.

As for Arlotte, she was completely
houleversee, as she would have said of
herself. She wandered up and down the
dreary empty rooms, (Colonel Murray
did not like her to go out without a
maid, and her last had been dismissed

a month ago and not yet replaced,)
making feeble plans in her weak little
mind, and talking helplessly to herself.
She did not know her own misery, but
she wanted to save her sister from what
seemed to her a terrible fate. She felt
she could do nothing, and yet she went
on scheming and planning in her faint
powerless way. She did not even know
where Edmee was gone, and yet she was
determined to prevent her going there !

She never thought of her aunt, the
Abbess — in fact, she hardly knew of her
existence. Edmee, who was older, had
been to see her once or twice, but after
the death of Comtesse Armand de Coulanges
intercourse between the families
had ceased, and the young daughters of
the house had been educated at the Convent
of the Sacred Heart, at Avignon.
It never occurred to Arlotte that Edmee
might have gone in search of this unknown
aunt. She thought of the Sacred

Heart, and of other convents at Aries,
and Marseilles, and Lyons, and even
across the frontier and along the Riviera,
where young ladies of noble birth and
devout aspirations sometimes took the
veil ; but she never thought of, she never
mentioned, the name of Pierreport.

She ran over the names of the other
convents to her husband when he came
in. She begged and implored, she entreated
and prayed him to fly hither and
thither, and save and stop Edmee while
yet there was time. He laughed at her
again in his rough, hoarse way, grumbled
over his dinner, and went out once
more.

Poor little Arlotte ! she was not very
wise, certainly. A very early marriage is
apt sometimes to cramp a woman's understanding,
even while it enlarges her
affections. This was a little excuse for
Arlotte, and it was perhaps one also for
Colonel Murray.

When a man is greeted chez soi with
alternate ecstacies and resignations, he
generally makes his home-goings as few
and as tardy as possible. When he encounters
frowns there, he seeks, and finds
too, smiles elsewhere. And in all cases,
the more cause a man has to reproach
himself, the less will he stand the reproaches
of others.

In the course of that summer a little
daughter was born to Arlotte and her
husband. Neither of them, however,
seemed to care much about it.

When the christening time came,
the mother wished to call her child
Edmee.

'' It was my mother's name, and my
sister's too ; have you forgotten, Charles ?"
lie said.

Colonel Murray gave her a look, the
meaning of which was perfectly enigmatical
to his poor little wife. And then he
said, sharply and sternly, that he would

never call this child Edmee, and the
baby was accordingly christened Valentine.


'' He is afraid you will become a nun
too, my poor little baby," said Arlotte,
trying to explain to herself the meaning
of her husband's strange objection to the
name. She was rather given to ascribing
motives to other people's words and ways,
and did not much care whether they
fitted or not, so long as they hung on
somehow. '' And yet you could not belike
a better person than Edmee," she
added with a sigh, which the baby echoed
with a little gurgling whimper.

Arlotte liked playing with her baby,
but she did not care much about it. She
was a mere child still, and at seventeen
the maternal instinct is rarely developed.
It is not till a later period that the full
tide of that passion begins to flow withall
its mighty overwhelming force. Still
she did long a little sometimes to show

her baby" to the people who had
known and loved its mother when she
was a baby too, and she fancied that
once amongst them again, she would
surely hear something of her dear Edmee.
Poor little soul ! she clung with a feeble
persistency to the old ties, now that the
newer ones seemed to be hanging somewhat
loosely upon her.

Let us go home. I want to go home.
If only we were at home," was now the
burden of her cry, and her sole topic
of conversation with her husband. It
was rather a monotonous one, certainly.
But Colonel Murray took no notice.
He was not only deaf to her entreaties,
but dumb too, which probably encouraged
her to say the same things over andover
again. I have heard of slaves
being tortured to death by means of
a single drop falling at regular intervals
on their heads. Colonel Murray was
no slave. He was a tyrant, and the

continual drooping of the water had
no effect upon him.

At last, however, he consented to
return to Coulanges. The gambling
rooms were closed ; the summer was
over ; the autumn far advanced ; there
was only the winter to look forward
to now, and Arlotte did not like the
winter, short and sharp as it usually
is in those sunny southern provinces of
la belle France.

It was a dreary day when they first
came in sight of the Chateau de Coulanges
once more. There was no railway at
that time nearer than Aries ; and they had
posted from thence along the straight
high-road with its stiffened hedge-rows,
and its long line of leafless poplars,
looming through the mists like the ghosts
of dead trees, and past the wayside
village where Colonel Murray had first
seen the sweet face of Edmee de Coulanges
leaning out of the carriage

window, and smiling as she spoke ;
and so on through the woods, where
the sisters had wandered together with
their arms round each other's necks,
and past the mill where Arlotte had
first listened to the words of love,
and across the bridge over which she
had last driven as a day-old bride.
Husband and wife had both so much
to think of, that they found little to say
to each other during that dreary drive.

It was a damp, drizzling day. The
ground was wet with a fog that was
colder than the rain, the sky was murky
with mists that were thicker and greyer
than the clouds. Even the people, loyal
and loving, and French as they were,
could scarcely venture out from their
changes to offer a smiling welcome to
the bride on this her tardy home-coming.
It was a dismal one indeed. Arlotte
shivered as the carriage turned up the
chestnut avenue.

Nevertheless, through the mist, aod
the fog, and her own blinding tears, the
poor little thing looked out eagerly. She
had been wearying for a sight of these
scenes so long.

She had thought of them so often, she
fancied she remembered them all quite
correctly. She could have told you
the number of trees in the clump on
the hill ; her father had been so fond
of trees, he would never have one
cut down if he could help it. She
fancied she knew too how the fields
fitted one into the other, with no perceptible
fence between them, as is the
way in the south with large properties.
But her fancy had played her false. She
had forgotten that gap in the trees
there, and the clump on the hill — the
tall straight pines, where were they ?
She rubbed her eyes, and looked again,
but she could not see them even then.
And what was that, in the grass field

yonder ? a fence ? a wall ? actually a stonewall
— how did it come there ? what did
it mean ? Arlotte shuddered again.

How dull everything looked, the old
grey chateau in the distance, with its
frowning battlements, and night-capped
towers, and then the fields and meadows
close at hand, brown and damp with
the remains of the year's garnered
growth. And how dull she felt, too !
She had thought it would be different
when she saw Coulanges once more,
but she felt just as she used to feel at
Baden-baden, when she looked out on
that eternal Black Forest with its grim
waving trees, that always reminded her
ol the plumes of a hearse. Perhaps it
was the wet day that made her feel
so dismal. She appealed to her husband
on this point, and he agreed with her.
He generally did agree to his wife's
remarks, if not to her wishes. It saved
trouble, and it could not possibly matter.

He lead honos since taken to regard lier
as some curious cross between an infant
and an idiot.

Yes — it was the dull day, of course.
Arlotte was glad lie lead thought of
that. There had been no dull days in
the old times. She could not remember
one. There need be none in the future ?
Arlotte did not feel so sure of that.
There was the winter coming on, and
Arlotte had a sort of presentiment, it
would be a dreary one. And then,
though her husband was very clever
and kind, of course, still he was not
altogether an amusing companion. Perhaps
she was too young to amuse him,
just as baby was too young to amuse

her. Perhaps but here the carriage

stopped at the chateau door, and she did
not communicate her surmises to her
husband. She got out and walked
through the empty rooms, carrying the
fog in with her, and feeling as though

a leaden weight were hung about lier
soul, and pressing her down heavily.

Arlotte's presentiments with regard
to the winter were justified. Never
had there been such weather in the
memory of the oldest villager, who
died of cold soon after making this
statement. For weeks together the
roads were blocked with snow, and
the sky was as thick as a blanket.
The sea-fogs came drifting over the
woods and the valleys, and wreathed
themselves round the towers and
turrets of the old chateau, and
hung like damp curtains before every
window. Then the wind arose, and
blew them back again to their lawful
kingdom, and sundry tiles and chimney-pots
after them. It was a frightful
wind, waking up suddenly in the middle
of the night, and bellowing like a
giant round and round the old chateau,
and into it too here and there. Arlotte

VOL. I. H

used to shake in her bed sometimes.
She thought the whole house would be
blown down. She would have found it
very difficult to fulfil her old promise
of making the place gay and joyous once
more, had she tried to do so that wild,
weary, frost-bound winter.

But she did not try. She seemed
to have no power, or spirit, to do
anything in those days. She was back
in the old home, it is true, but she was
out of tune with her surroundings ; and
little by little — through fear perhaps of
jarring with the poor cold music about
her — she became like a dumb note in
an organ. Do you think there are only
organs in churches, and orchestras in
concert halls and opera houses ? You
mistake greatly. Why there are bands
of music everywhere, in every home, in
every school. " Wherever two or three
are gathered together," there is a
band playing away vigorously. It does

not always play the music you wish
for, but it plays music of all sorts—
now a march, then a nursery song,
often a love ballad, oftener still a dirge.

And sometimes, someone wants a solo
all to himself, or someone else won't
sing the second that is put before him ;
and then all the chords go clashing
together wildly, and the treble and bass
have a furious affray, but the music
goes on just the same, though not
quite so harmoniously, perhaps. And
there is a part for everybody, if people
would only do their best with it. But
some people are mute because they
cannot read their scores, and some because
their lute strings are twisted, or
because the right hand is not there to
show them how to strike the chord,
nor the right ear ready to catch and
give them the key-note. Arlotte's part,
I think, was a little flute-like trill, gay
and rippling as any bird's, but she

H 2

did not perform it, because no one
seemed to care to listen to it. Had
Edm^e been there, it would have been
different.

But nothing was heard of Edm6e.
Josette's mother had indeed received one
letter from her daughter, but it made
no mention of Comtesse Edmee. It was
full of raptures about the sea, and
allusions to Pierrot and his profession,
but it gave no address and it asked
for no answer. It certainly led one to
suppose that Comtesse Edm^e and her
maid were living somewhere by the seaside.
But even then, Arlotte never
thought of Pierreport.

The good people of Josette's family
were much exercised by this letter. What
did it mean ? Where had it come from ?
There was not even a post-mark upon it.
It had been left at the door of Madame
Jozeau's cahane by the weekly carrier, so
they could not appease their anxieties by

writing. They appealed to Comtesse Arlotte,
coming up in a stream one day —
blue-bloused men and white-capped women,
the relations and village friends of the
missing maid — coming up to ask the
advice of the great lady of the castle.

It was a pretty picture, but " the
great lady " might as well have been
omitted. She was of no use. She could
tell them nothing. She could not give
a scrap of comfort or help to anyone.
Hers was not a helpful nature. She
liked being helped herself — being taken
care of, and told things. She hated
guess-work, riddles, &c., Edmee knew
that. And now, where was Edmee ?

Meanwhile the baby Yalentine throve
and grew apace, as babies mostly do,
when no one is overmuch anxious about
them.

Meanwhile Colonel Murray's debts grew
too, and his means of meeting them
waxed smaller and smaller. His affairs

became more and more involved. He
journeyed hither and thither ; more trees
were cut down, more land let and
parcelled out — the old De Coulanges property
which had never yet been subdivided
— and still ruin stared him in the
face.

At last, one day he stood before Arlotte
suddenly and sullenly, and told her
to make her packets, and be ready to
start as soon as possible, for he had let
the chateau for a term of years to a big
rampaging American family.

Arlotte sat still, and stared at him
blankly. She was never quick at understanding.


They were coming from Marseilles
out of Italy, ces Americains,^' he said,
** and they saw the Roman remains in the
park, and the view of the amphitheatre
at Aries from the bridge. Such things
naturally please people who have no ruins
at home, and they offered at once a

larger sum for the tumble-down old place
than I ever have thought of asking.
It is a perfect god-send," he went on,
rather surprised at her silence but only
too glad to take it all in good part, and
be conciliatory himself. " So, fais tes
packets, ma femme, we shall be back
again some day, never fear."

Arlotte waited till her husband had
done speaking. Then she flashed out
upon him :

You have let my house — the home
of my father's, which no stranger has
ever yet entered uninvited," she cried,
with clenched hands and quivering lips.
And you have dared to do it all without
even asking so much as with, or
without my leave."

'' With, or without your leave ?" repeated
Colonel Murray, looking at her
half amazed at, half admiring the
spirit he had stirred within her at last.
It was like the anger of a little feeble

bird, but it was better, far better than the
dumb apathy with which she had treated
him of late, or the wild senseless ecstasies
which had been her earlier way. " There
seems to be nothing else we can do now,
Arlotte," he added, in a gentler voice,
which had almost a sad ring in it.

Then," she retorted defiantly, throwing
back her head, and taking no notice
of the change that had grown into her
husband's words and looks — " with your
leave or without your leave, with or
without your presence, it signifies nothing
to me, I will remain here ; here at
Coulanges, sleeping under a tree, if there
is no room for me at the chateau, living
in the woods, when driven out from my
own home — but here I will remain, to
pray beside my father's grave, and watch
for tidings of my sister, and save what
I can of my property from my husband's
hands. There is nothing else I will do."

Colonel Murray looked at her again.

anxiously, lingeringly. He was not
touched by her words, which were all
froth, and foam, and feebleness ; but he
was touched by her looks, her eyes that
were flashing, her cheeks that were
flaming, her lips that were burning with
real pain and passion.

It shall be as you wish," he said, ina
low voice. And then he turned and left
her.

The chateau was let. He could not
undo that. But he did what he could
for her besides. He found a little house
at Belle-Fontaine, all overgrown with
dropping purple flowers, and starry clematis,
with a garden in front, and a
pretty babbling brook behind. He took
it for her, and settled her in it. He
managed to provide her with money
enough for her simple wants ; he let her
keep the child, he seldom troubled her
with his presence.

Once she relented. It was the second

time he left her after she had gone to
the cottage. " Oh, do not go !" she cried.
Do not leave me all alone."

But it was too late. The die was cast.
The deed that had been done could not
be undone.

And so there, all alone, in that tiny
cottage, in that tiny village, lived
the once proud heiress of half the
woods and rivers round — the last born
of the De Coulanges name — the girl Arlotte,
who had despised the old monotonous
days in the old grey chateau, and
who had dreamt of a life, gay and glad
and golden as the sun-motes dancing in
the air, or the bubbles on the river's
surface, and who awoke at last and found
it— this !—

One snowy St. Genevieve's Day, some
four years later, a novice, who had long
been hesitating and waiting — watching if
by chance anyone in the world should

make any sign of needing her again —
wearying herself with pangs, pains and
doubts, concerning the fitness of her
vocation and the worthiness of her
offering, considering where else, and how
else, she should lay down the weight of
her sins and the burden of her sorrows,
took the veil at last in the Convent of
Notre Dame de Bon Secours, at Pierre-port.


That same day, far away in the village
beyond Coulanges, a lady lay dying in
the flower wreathed house, while a little
five-year-old child stood beside her, looking
on gravely, with great circling grey
eyes.

The lady had been ill for months, and
no one had seemed to think much about
her. But since last week the doctor had
come oftener, and looked graver each
time, and yesterday he had brought with
him a nurse from the hospital at Marseilles,

and had sent off a message to
some one in Paris.

To-day, however, she seemed to suffer
less. She lay still and silent, with
closed eyes and folded hands, seemingly
asleep, or unconscious. Perhaps she
would die thus, the nurse had said.

But the nurse was wrong.

Suddenly the lady started up, clutching
at the bed-clothes, and gasping for
breath.

Oh Love — Love — Love !" she cried,
piercingly sharp and clear. '' Love for
Love's sake only, or else love not at
all."

And then, with a shudder, a spasm
of pain that shook her whole body
and contracted her features, she fell
back motionless upon the pillows, and
Arlotte de Coulanges, Colonel Murray's
neglected, unloved wife, was dead.

The child caught the mother's last words,
and was pleased with their sound. She

could not, by any possibility, understand
what they meant ; but she kept repeating
them to herself, as though, in that way, she
might, in course of time, arrive at their
meaning. It was just as older people goon
sometimes repeating a lie, until at
last they come to believe it to be a
truth.

' Love for Love's sake only,' what
does it mean, Manon ?" she asked of the
nurse. " What is Love ?"

Manon, the nurse, was a God-fearing
woman, honest and just; but she 'had
gone through hard times with a drunken
husband and ungrateful children, and
had come out hardened — a result, thank
God, not always and not often the consequence
of that process.

Love," she said, sternly, as she drew
a sheet over the terribly still thing on
the bed — " love is to please oneself, and
leave others to fare as best they can.
More than that I have never seen in all

the sixty years I have known the world."

'* Love is to please oneself," repeated the
child, not understanding this either, but
storing it up for future use. And she
went wandering in and out of the little
cottage, and the woods and the water
seemed to say the same thing.

That evening, at sunset, by the coach
from Aries, a gentleman arrived. He was
a stranger to the child, and to the nurse
too, but not to the dead lady, it seemed.

The next day some more men came,
three or four of them, with crape on their
hats ; also a low black carriage, with open
sides and a gilded roof, and four black
horses to draw it. And between them all
they carried that poor dead lady away,
and returned to the cottage without her.

The child stood at the door, watching
all these proceedings. Manon had tied a
black ribbon into her hair, and was stitching
away at some black things in the room
within.

The man who had known the poor dead
lady patted the child's head as he passed
and asked her what it was she was
murmuring to herself.

'' Love for love's sake only," said the
child, looking up eagerly. " What does
it mean ?"

The man started and turned pale.
Some such words as those he had heard,
not from his dead wife's, but from his lost
love's lips.

"Mean?" he said, recovering himself;
why, it means nothing at all. Look
here, Valentine, here is the only thing
worth loving — worth living for, in fact,"
and he drew a handful of gold out of his
pocket.

Love means money, then ?" said the
child, wondering more than ever, and
stretching out her little fat hands towards
the glittering coins.

But the man put temptation beyond her
reach, and nodded at the child's shrewdness.

'' She's sharper than her mother,
at any rate," he thought to himself.

The next day he took her away with
him. She was dressed in black, and
Manon had packed up all her little things
in a tiny skin-covered box. As the travelling
carriage drove slowly over the old
bridge, from which the peaked roofs and
grey turrets of the Chateau de Coulanges
could be seen, the child clapped her hands
and began kissing the tips of her fingers.
She knew the look of the old place, though
she had never seen it so near before. She
did not know her father, though he was
sitting there by her side.

'' Why do you do that ?" he asked,
watching her.

'' Because it is mine," said the child,
still kissing her hand, and gazing at the
chateau as if trying to fix it on her mind's
eye ; " or it will be mine some day.
Maman me Va dit. Maman showed me
many pictures of it."

Yours — Maman /" echoed the father,
with a hollow laugh. And then he
clinched his money in his pocket, and
laughed again. Maman was dead. The
chateau was sold. The broad lands of
the De Coulanges had passed into the
hands of strangers.

But the child did not know this, of
course, and even had she done so she
would not have cared very much just
then. Her quick ears had caught the
tinkle of a bell, and the sound of voices
ringing or singing at intervals in the
hollow below. It might be some travelling
show, or a pretty church procession,
perhaps. The little Valentine loved sights
and shows, and music above all thing's.
She stood up in the carriage and peered
out of the window, straining her eyes and
listening with all her might.

It was a Church procession. She could
see the cross gleaming in the sunshine;
she could hear the deep-rolling Latin

VOL. T. I

client. There was a boy with a bell, and
another with a censor, and a long train of
people behind. But it was not a pretty
procession. All the women were weeping.
All the men looked very grave.]

It was a funeral procession toiling up
the steep rough road, from the village of
Coulanges to the grass-grown churchyard
on the hill-side. The people of Belle-fontaine
were there too, for he whom
they were going to bury had died a hero's
death, and both villages were proud to
claim him as their own. They had turned
against him in his lifetime, but they knew
him by his death. It is the way of the
world, among peasants as well as princes.
When the seal is removed its impressionis
seen. These were all common peasant
folks, from the cure, who went on before
with his choristers and acolytes, to the
chief mourner who wailed behind the
dead, holding the fluttering end of the
pall. But the very nature of their occupation

seemed to refine them — for the time
being, at any rate. Their grief made
them gentle. Perhaps coarser natures
scarcely realize how far mental suffering,
and sorrow, and pain, go towards making
a gentleman.

*' What are they singing ?" asked Valentine,
as the driver of Colonel Murray's
carriage pulled up his horses and took off
his hat, and the people went tramping
towards the little church on the hill.
What are they singing ?" she repeated,
as Colonel Murray made no reply. *' Is
it the song the angels sing, that maman
told me of ?"

Main Old, petite,''^ answered the
Colonel, abruptly ; and then, as if to turn
the child's attention, " Mais regardez pluto
ion chateau, if you like to call it so, it is
the last time you will ever see it." And
as Valentine strained her eyes, their driver
moved on, and Colonel Murray and his
daughter sped onwards on their journey.

I 2

And with Valentine how fared it in her
young years, with so uncongenial a father?
Why recount her young life, its ups and
downs, its little pleasures and greater
sorrows ? Kind friends she sometimes
found, hard blows she sometimes experienced
; but yet she grew as children will
grow under all circumstances ; and when
we next meet her you will be able to judge
into what sort of girl poor Arlotte Murray's
motherless daughter developed.

ST. mark's road.

Heigh-ho, buttercups and daisies,

Fair yellow daffodils stately and tall,
A sunshiny world full of laughter and leisure

And fresh hearts unconscious of sorrow and thrall ,
Send down on their pleasure smiles passing its
measure,
God that is over us all !" jean angelo.

evening.

SPLENDID summer
The sun had set, but the twilight
had not yet begun ; there
was just that sort of clear haze everywhere
which seems to fall from heaven upon
the earth " between the lights." Over
the hills and far away beyond the spreading

green country, the sun had no doubt
gone down with a flare and a glare of
crimson and gold, which, if colour could
be translated into sound, would be as a
trumpet blast; while even herein London,
there is beauty enough to make men lift
their eyes from the earthly city and strive
to catch a glimpse of the heavenly one.
Even here there are walls " as of jasper,"
and streets "as of pure gold," gleaming
and glistening in the setting sun.

But the glory and the crown of all was
the sky — that luminous London sky,
which is so seldom seen here, and never
seen anywhere else. It was not like a
country sky, clear-eyed and tender as the
eyes of a country maid ; nor sapphire-heed,
as it gleams in the south ; nor topaz-tinted,
as it hangs sometimes over a
dark northern moor. No, it was simply
a blue-grey sky, pale, and very misty, and
yet just such a sky as one fancies must be
shining at this instant over the streets and

gates of the New Jerusalem — a skj misty
with '' the smoke of the incense" which
ascends with the prayers of the saints, and
yet luminous with the light of perfect
love, even of God himself.

It was a summer evening, as I have
said. It had been also a saint's day, St.
James's day, I think. Evening service was
just over at the old grey parish church of
St. Mark's. The vicar had taken off his
surplice, the organist had pushed back all
the music-making stops, the single
chorister had shut up a little rose-bud of
a mouth; and these three officials, who
happened to be nearly related to each
other — in fact, father and daughters —
were making the best of their way home
through St. Mark's Had.

It was a long walk, and not exactly a
pleasant one. Perhaps in the old days,
when Richard of Grio'ster ate strawberries
in the bishop's garden at Lowborn, and
children gathered cowslips in the fields

round St. Martin's, the space between St.
Mark's Vicarage and St. Mark's Church
may have been fat glebe lands, whereon
former vicars literally fed their sheep, and
planted their seed, and saw it grow up and
bear good fruit. But the latter-day vicars
have no such pleasing occupations. The
glebe lands have been turned into stony
pasturage (a modern Gorgon method of
the Hermetic art,) and the human sheep,
more headstrong than those of old, live
huddled together in pens unfit for brutes.
At this moment, however, they were
scattered abroad throughout the length
and breadth of the street — lambs fighting
like young lions, ewes, limp and
hungry-eyed, slinking about with poor
thin faces and plaintive bleating voices,
rams herded together in groups, with
pipes in their mouths and hands in their
pockets, and staring at each other and
the passers-by in a painfully stupid,
sheepish manner. There were sheep-dogs

among them too, dogs dressed up in black
uniforms, and bands, and buckles, and
buttons, and keeping a sharp look-out
over the costermongers' carts, and bits
of bone and meat in the butchers' shops.
It was a sorry sight in this City of Feasts.
Through this unkempt, unwashed flock,
then, the Reverend Edward Carmichael,
Vicar of St. Mark's, went slowly shouldering
his way. He saluted his parishioners
gravely now and then, but he walked for
the most part with his face bent and his
hands hanging down loosely by his side.
He was a tall dreamy-looking man with a
stooping figure, and a general air of
dilapidation and dreariness that seemed
to hang about him like a fog. He was
learned, and studious, and absorbed by
nature, and very economical of speech.
His name was known far and wide among
all the learned societies of Europe, but
many of his parishioners scarcely knew
him by sight, the affairs of the parish

being chiefly conducted by Mr. Wench,
the curate, a nervous young man of an
ardent temperament and an immense
amount of energy.

Honor, Mr. Carmichael's eldest daughter,
resembles her father. She is tall too, and
has a pale grave face, and a pair of soft
kind eyes, blue-grey like the sky. She
has fair hair, a gentle voice, and very
quiet ways. She is about nineteen years
of age, and has been at the head of her
father's household (a very small one)
almost as long as she can remember.

Grladys,the other daughter, is only a little
baby-thing, eight years old at most. She
has laughing brown eyes, with topaz lights
in them, and bright fuzzy hair, on which
the sun seems to be always shining, and a
mouth like the ever-smiling, ever-singing
mouths (so, at least, Mr. Stephen Aylmer
used to declare) of old Botticelli's angel-children.
Not that she was like an angel
in any other respect, being nothing more

nor less than an ordinary spoilt child,
sharp and rather pert, and adored by
Honor. For Gladys' mother was indeed
among the angels, and Honor, though
scarcely more than a child herself, had
been as a mother to the little sister ever
since she was born.

Such being the nature of the relationship
between the two, the younger one, of
course, made a complete slave of the elder,
and tyrannized over her accordingly.
Honor did not object, however; slaves
never do of their own accord, it is said. It
needs a zealous outsider to influence them
with a burning sense of their own wrongs.
Indeed, in her heart of hearts, I believe,
Honor thought it was hard Gladys should
have but one slave. Other children had
fathers as well as mothers to bow down
and worship them. But Gladys' father
was a learned, dreamy, silent man, who
took but little notice of his girls, and
whose thoughts were buried in his books.

He had been blessed with a boy once, but
he was dead, and now his wife was dead
too. His girls were good girls, but they
could not fill up the void these had left.
Books might do so, perhaps. Study might
help to distract his mind. At any rate he
was trying the experiment.

I wish it was Christmas time now,"
said Gladys the queen, pushing her little
bright face over her father's hand, and
looking at her slave as though she expected
her to produce old Father Christmas,
and all his usual accessories, out of
her pocket at a moment's notice.

The slave smiled, as such slaves always
smile.

I suppose you are thinking of the
Christmas-tree in the schoolroom, and
all the presents you had given you last
year'* she said.

'* No, I am not," replied the child disdainfully.
" I am thinking of the lamps."

'* The lamps — " repeated Honor, puzzled.

"Yes, th gas-lamps' cried Gladys
ecstatically. '' I do so love to see the lamps
lighted — you know I do, Honor. Don't
you remember last Christmas Eve, when
we came back from shopping very late,
and you tvotdd walk so fast that Stephen
laughed, and I had to run to keep up
with you ? And then it grew quite dark,
and they lighted all the lamps all down
St. Mark's Road, and there were lights
before us, and lights behind us, and allover
us too, for the sky was very clear,
and bright, and full of stars. And down
there, far away, all the lights seemed to
join together and make one beautiful
flame, and all the air round was quite soft
and misty. And Stephen said, good
people were like that, and their influence
was like the golden light shed by the
lamps — at least, he said something like
that. Don't you remember. Honor?"

Oh yes, Queenie, I remember," said
Honor, flushing a little, and laughing

softly at the child's breathless eloquence.
And I am glad you have such a good
memory, too, for it will be some time before
you see the lamps again. However, you
will have the sea to look at meanwhile,
and that will do instead, won't it ?"

Oh yes — the sea — and the funny stupid
French people who won't be able to speak
English," said the child, who was at that
happy age when a thought can be turned
aside as easily as a blind man out of his
path. " And there will be no horrible
boy's school at Pierreport, either, will
there, Honor ?" she added, a little anxiously
; this last remark being suggested
by the advance of a small regiment of
small boys, whom Gladys, in some mysterious
manner, regarded as her natural
enemies, and would scowl at accordingly,
as a kitten will scowl at a litter of puppies,
always provided the kitten is at a
safe distance off, say nestling on the lap
of a velvet gown.

This Lilliputian regiment was commanded
by a female general, Miss
Pincock by name, a fussy little woman,
whose sombre uniform of black was resplendent
with bugles. It was escorted
by the general's aide-de-camp and pupil-teacher,
Master Carraway, who was lean,
and lanky, and rapid of growth, and
consequently afflicted with a chronic suit
of undersized garments, out of which his
neck, and wrists, and ankles protruded
painfully.

So you are really going tomorrow,"
says the general, who, with her aide-de-camp,
had halted to speak to the
Carmichaels, while their infantile forces
went marching on through the streets,
hustling the passers-by, and scattering
confusion into the hearts of sundry rickety
old apple-women, who had taken root on
the edges of the pavement.

Yes'* replied Honor, shaking hands
with Miss Pincock, whilst her father was

slowly waking up to the sense that someone
was speaking to him, and Gladys was
glaring at Master Carraway with malevolent
eyes. " Yes, we are going to
Pierreport tomorrow. I hope we shall
have a good crossing."

*' I hope so ^00," returned Miss Pin-cock,
emphatically. (She always talked
in italics.) " And a pleasant time whilst
you stay at Pierreport. As for Gladys,
she is sure to be happy— sup-pier than
happy, in fact, what with the sands

and the shells " but here the flow of

the little lady's eloquence was suddenly
arrested by Mr. Carmichael, who being
awake at last, held out his hand, which
was vigorously seized and wrung up and
down by Miss Pincock, as though it were
a pump-handle and she a drawer of water.

A series of farewells ensued, good in
principle, but tedious in practice — at least
so thought little Gladys — and then the
friends separated.

Honor, how can any one be happier
than happy?" asked the child, as the
sisters trudged on once more, one on each
side of their father.

Honor said nothing. She only smiled
that steady, silent, loving smile, with
which she often greeted the little one's
questions.

It would be like having too much
sugar in one's tea, I suppose," continued
the child, compelled to answer herself, asher
way often was. " Only the tea
would be sure to brim over and spill, if
you put too many lumps of sugar into it ;
and that could not happen to happiness,
could it, Honor ?"

'^.^r^i^mm^^'

VOL. I. K

Happier THAN HAPPY !

*' Then how grace a rose ? I know a way,
Leave it rather.
Must you gather ?
Smell, kiss, wear it ? at last throw away !"

ROBERT BROWNING.

EAR readers, I hope you are
not already tired of the walk
down St. Mark's Road. I told
you from the first that it was a long one,
and we have yet much further to go.

We have a good many more friends to
meet, too. There was Mr. Humming, the
schoolmaster, who way-laid the vicar

outside the tripe-shop, and unfolded to
him a long list of prospective misdemeanours
on the part of school-children's
pennies ; also Mrs. Trimming, the pew-opener,
who was deaf, as well as communicative,
and required to have every
remark made to her twice over, which
spun out the interview to an indefinite
length. There was the Curate, too, the
Reverend Auriol Wynch, who went by
during the Carmichaels' gossip with
Mrs. Trimming, and who did not stop,
but passed on with a bow and a
blush.

Poor Mr. Wynch ! he deserves more
than a line in this history, though that
was all the conqueror of Europe expected
in the history of the world. Not that
the Curate himself had anything of the
conqueror about him. On the contrary,
he was a mild-looking little man, with a
nervous shrinking manner and a perpetual
twitch in his features, which

K 2

had made Gladys say one day, that —
Papa's Curate must have been
the original naughty little boy who had
made an ugly face, and it had stuck to
him ever since, just as his nurse had
prophesied it would do, though he was
always trying to pull his face back to
proper shape."

Children of any imagination are always
on the look-out for the visible wages
of sin, and are apt to consider personal
imperfections as an outward sign
of inward deformity — so that to them,
Richard Iii's hump was a token of
his murderous intentions towards his
nephews.

This was hard upon Mr. Wynch, who
was a good man, a good parson, and a
good preacher. He had good prospects
too, and it was whispered that he lingered
on so long in this unfashionable Curacy
of St. Mark's, because somebody else had
not yet put off the buckled-shoes and

broad-brimmed bat wbicb be was destined
one day to pat on. Indeed, a deanery
was the least thing that could happen to
bim, according to Miss Pincock, betook
quite a sisterly, one might almost
say a motherly, interest in the ugly
Curate. Nevertheless, appearances were
against bim, and in the estimation
of little Gladys, Mr. Wyncb was
but one degree better than Master
Carraway.

There is someone else posting along
behind us almost as fast as Mr. Wyncb,
only the other way," said the child,
looking round to see if the Curate were
safe out of sight. " Wbo do you think
this can be. Honor ?"

But before Honor bad time to think,
sbe knew — for a well-known step was close
behind ber, a well-known voice was saying,


Good evening, Mr. Carmichael''

Tbe Yicar looked round startled.

Ah ! Aylmer, mj boy, is that you ?"
he says, with surprising heartiness.
'* Why, where did you spring from ?"

'* Well— from the Club last, I think,"
returned the young fellow, shaking hands
all round. " But for the last ten minutes
1 have been tracking your steps like a
detective. I went to the Church first,
and found you had just gone."

Then it is lucky you detected tonight,
for tomorrow night we shall not
be here to detect," said Gladys, catching
the word, but feeling rather vague as to
its meaning.

'' To-morrow night !" repeated the
young man, puzzled. ** What does she
mean. Honor?"

** She means — " replied Gladys, laughing
saucily, and throwing the words over her
shoulder, as it were ; for the Vicar had
moved on again with the child clinging to
his arm, like a tiny limpet to a grim grey
rock — " she means that we are going

away to France tomorrow. I am so
glad, and so is Honor — we have just been
talking about it. And so, you see, we
shall not be bere," added the child, rather
at a loss how to perforate her sentence
gracefully.

Mr. Aylmer's face assumed a blank
expression, which Honor obligingly endeavoured
to fill up for him.

'' Are you so very much surprised,
Stephen?" she said, with a smile, as she
strolled along by the young man's side.
^' I suppose it is really rather astonishing,
seeing that we so seldom leave home.
But this seemed a chance. An old college
friend of papa's, who is the English
chaplain at Pierreport, wrote and offered
to exchange duties with him for six
months, and after a little consideration,
papa wrote back and accepted the
offer."

'' Accepted ! for six months !" echoed
Stephen, who did not seem to be

particularly well-furnished with original
remarks to-day. " And why was I not
told of this before, pray ?"

It has only just been settled," replied
Honor, wondering a little at the aggrieved
tone in which her companion spoke.
Of course I should have written to tell
you about it before we went away, but
I felt sure — at least, I mean, I thought
you would come to-night. It is so long
since you have been at the Vicarage, you
know. Why, Stephen, you look quite
grave," she added, snatching with a sort
of confused indifference at the first idea
that came into her head, as we all do,
when we feel we have been betrayed into
exhibiting any unnecessary interest in any
subject or person. " Don't you like our
going to Pierreport ?"

''Do you V said Aylmer, turning upon
her suddenly, and looking at her rather
eagerly.

*' Yes, I think I do," replied the girl,

frankly. "It is stupid never to have
been anywhere. One might as well have
lived before the days of steamboats and
railroads. I have only been once as far
as Margate in all my nineteen years of
life, and Gladys has never been anywhere
at all. It will do her good, at any
rate."

Yes — that's it — always Gladys," cried
Aylmer, impatiently swinging his stick
round and round, and apparently aiming
his remark at a freshly-painted lamp-post
they happened to be passing at that exact
moment. " You think of no one but
Gladys, Honor."

'' Who else have I to think about,
Stephen?" said the girl simply. But
Mr. Aylmer disapproved of the sentiment,
and did not deign to answer it.

They walked on a few steps in silence.

'' Since you think it so stupid never to
have been anywhere," he said at length,
reverting to a former remark of Honor's,

*' how would you like to go a little further
than Pierreport and see a number of new
places?" He had turned the light of
his countenance upon her again, and
was watching her rather closely as he
spoke.

Honor looked at him too. She was
puzzled by his strange manner, and
unusually grave way of speaking.

'* See a number of new places," she
repeated. " What do you mean "

And then suddenly, she too seemed
to be afflicted with Mr. Aylmer's late
infirmity of looking aside. Only in her
case, it was the area-railings, and not the
lamp-posts, that took her fancy.

It was very aggravating of her, wasn't
it ? It is always so aggravating of people
not to follow our train of thought, however
vaguely or recklessly we may drive
it along the beaten track of words.
Stephen must try something slower, and
surer, and plainer. He must make

her understand to-day. He could not
wait a moment longer. He had waited
for months, years he might almost say,
with this same thought smouldering
in his breast. Now it had sprung up into
a sudden flame. Honor must be made to
see it.

*' I mean — " he said, tugging away at
his moustache, and speaking in a strange
sort of grating voice, like a carriage
going down hill with the drag on — " oh.
Honor, can't you guess what I mean ?
We have known each other so long, and
have been so much together, but we shall
see little of each other in the future,
unless — " (there must have been a very
big stone in the way just then, safely
bumped over, however) '' unless you can
give me a little bit of your life in exchange
for my whole love, and go with
me wherever fortune may call me —
unless you can make a little room forme
in your heart," (rather bitterly)

which Gladys seems to have appropriated
altogether."

A series of jogs, a mighty thump, then
a full stop, but whether the carriage
were at the top or the bottom of the
hill, the owner thereof did not know himself.


Honor, however, understood at last,
though for a moment she could not say
so.

The people went hustling and bustling
by, the cabs and carriages went rolling
past. Stephen and Honor themselves
walked on, neither slower nor faster,
but just exactly as they had been doing
for the last quarter-of-an-hour. And yet
all was changed. There was a silent,
solemn, pulseless pause within her,
like the hush that falls upon the waves
when they go curling back from the
shore, and stand caught together fora
second in a great white heap. The
next moment they rush forward again,

kissing the sands as they go, and
tumbling tumultuously one over the
other. Then Honor's heart begins to
throb once more, beating back a little
faint colour to her cheeks, sending a few
faint trembling words to her lips.

Stephen — dear Stephen — don't say
that. I think — I think there is room."

Were those the words she said ? Stephen
never knew. He only felt as though
some windows in heaven had been suddenly
flung open, and the stream of
passionate delight had flowed over, and
flooded his soul.

Do you really mean it — my darling —
my darling !" he cried. And then his
voice too seemed suddenly to have gone
from him, passed away into silence, as
darkness into light — as stars into space —
as life into love !

They crossed the road, and turned
down the little lane leading to the
Vicarage. It was a narrow ill-paved

passage, bounded by two high grey walls.
But to them, at that moment, it seemed
suddenly to have become a vrai chemin du
Paradis. The walls were garnished with
precious stones, the pavement was strewn
with pearls. It is so with us all. We
furnish our way as we go, sowing amaranthine
flowers, hanging up magical pictures
which we fondly fancy will live for ever.
They do not live — they cannot last —
weeds grow faster than flowers, and the
good seed is choked up — and the fog
comes in, and the sun, and the dust, and
the rain, and our pictures get faded and
spoilt, and lose all likeness to realities.
But it is something to have possessed
them once, and to be able to carry about
the memory of them for ever.

Stephen and Honor walked slowly
down their chemin du Paradis (which
was otherwise known to the world by the
less romantic name of Racket's Alley) and
pushed open the little garden-gate in the

wall. And there, yonder, was an angel
waiting for them — an angel in a white
frock and a broad-brimmed hat, standing
under the verandah, flapping her arms
to and fro, as though they had been
wings.

How dreadfully slowly you must have
walked," cries the angel, spreading her
wings, and flying down upon them, with
somewhat more speed than Mr. Afterthought
at all necessary. " I, and papa
have been home such a long time — and
oh ! Honor how hot your cheeks
look, and why do your eyes shine so
brightly ?"

"I think because I am so happy — so
extra happy to-night, dear," whispers
Honor, burying her hot cheeks in a tangle
of sun-coloured hair. The sisters have
left Mr. Aylmer standing on the grass-plot,
and are going up the verandah steps
together, clinging to each other.

So extra happy," repeats the child

musingly, "that must be happier than
happy, I should think— only—only— I
hope, Honor, your cup is not so full that
it will brim over and spill !"

CHAPTER YI,

THE FULL CUP.

There grows a flower on every bough,

Sing heigh-ho !
There grows a flower on every bough,
Its petals kiss — I'll show you how,

Sing heigh-ho and heigh-ho,
Young maids must marry 1"

CHARLES KINGSLEY.

T. MARK'S VICARAGE is nota

modern model parsonage,
neither is it situated in a pleasant
part of London. It is an old-fashioned
house, square topped, and
built of brick, with several sham windows
outside, and a good deal of space

VOL. I. L

wasted inside. It stands a little way
back from St. Mark's Road; and the
next best house in the parish is a gin
palace.

Behind the Vicarage, however, as if
to make amends for its somewhat ill-favoured
face, there lurked an unsuspected
garden. It was only a small,
narrow, walled-in scrap of ground, hardly
worthy of the name of garden ; but just
such a bit of green light and shade as
one stumbles upon sometimes amid a
tangle of streets, like an odd feast-day
coming in the middle of the week, or a
single bright spot in an otherwise dull
monotonous life.

It was not much of a place certainly,
and one almost wondered to see any
flowers there at all. But there were
some : a dejected-looking honey-suckle,
flapping feebly over the wall, some
stunted geraniums, and early blighted
fuschias set about in pots.

There was also a square of grass in the
centre, honoured by the name of " the
lawn' and at the far end a biggish
bed of hollyhocks, which every autumn
pushed up their bright heads, and looked
out on the world with their many-coloured
eyes. The one tree, however,
was the pride of the place ; it was a
weeping-willow, and was extremely lavish
of its tears. Some ivy, too, went crawling
over the house, and round the arches
of the old verandah. It was smoke-dried
and blackened, and carried on the same
mournful and funereal suggestions. Indeed
altogether the place was not unlike
a churchyard — and not a pretty modern
*' God's acre" either, bedded with flowers,
and tended with loving pious care, but
an old, neglected, long-forgotten place
of tombs ; grim and damp and mouldy-looking.


Nevertheless, dreary and dismal as it
might seem to others, it was as the

L 2

garden of Eden itself to more than one
of its occupants that night. The roar of
the streets beyond came drifting in a
gentle murmur over the wall and the
budding hollyhocks ; lights were set in
the old brick house ; an old ran sat
bending over his papers in one of the
lighted rooms, a little child's voice went
ringing up and down the passages, and in
and out of the house ; but Adam and
Eve in the garden neither heard nor saw
any of these things. For love, thank
God, is a hardier plant than we sometimes
think, and will spring up spontaneously
in the smallest spots, devoid
of light, or space, or air — ay, even against
prison walls, or in fetid alleys, where
fainter flowers, such as truth, or patience,
or justice, or fair dealing, absolutely
refuse to grow.

They were sitting under the willow-tree
— they had been having tea therein
fact. It was a long standing promise

to Gladys that they should do so, on
this last night in London ; and the child
was not one to forget such a promise.

Nor would anyone have wished her to
forget, for the feast had been a pleasant
one, though of a silent order.
Mr. Carmichael, who never contributed
much to the general stock of conversation,
on other occasions, always kept a
book beside his plate at feeding times.

Gladys had flitted about hither and
thither in the lawless manner dear to
his heart, whilst Stephen had sat by
Honor's side, pouring water into her
tea-pot, putting sugar into the cups,
doing those hundred and one nothingness,
which are so small and
trivial in themselves, but which mean so
much when done under certain conditions
and by certain hands. For love is a
sacrament — a baptism unto a new life,
and its tiniest acts, and words, and looks,
are the signs and forms thereof, like the

cross made in water on the child's brow,
which implies the whole scheme of redemption
in all ages.

And then, by-and-by, Mr. Wynch had
come in, and had drunk his tea with a
series of twitches, and looked back
wistfully at the pair under the tree, as
his Yicar hurried off to the lighted-up
room, and the parish papers. And
Griadys had gone off also, to superintend
the packing of her doll's wardrobe, no
doubt, and enjoy a few last passages of
arms with Martha, the maid. And the
other two had sat on in that subtle
silence, which is often more expressive
than all the talking in the world, while
the earth grew dimmer and darker,
and the amber-tinted sky deepened into
solemn purple at night's holy approach ;
and all round the soft London atmosphere
which is at once so misty and
so luminous, waxed golden and tremulous,
as down St. Mark's Road Gladys' beloved

lamps were being lighted one by
one.

All ! those happy moments — " if they
could but last," as the mason said, whilst
still in the air, when he fell from the
house-top to the street below.

There is more of life's delight
In one hour such as these, than many years ;
For life is measured by intensity,
And not by dial dropping sand, or watch."

How beautiful everything is !" said
Honor, breaking the silence at last.
There are times when silence becomes
oppressive, and feelings must find their
vent in words.

"Even I?" asked Stephen, with a
smile. " In the old days, you used to
say I was the ugliest, crossest, hate-fullest
boy that ever was born. Have
you changed your opinion now?"

The girl's only answer was a smile ;
but what a smile ! bright and beautiful

as the sun's first glint on the dew-drops,
sweet, and swift, and sure as the summer
lightning, when it tears the sky-open,
and shows us through the rent a
glimpse of the gleaming white heavens
beyond. Then she rose suddenly, and
pushed her way out from under the
willow branches.

*' Honor, you do not speak — you do
not answer me," said Stephen, following
her, and arresting her steps, as she
reaches the old verandah. " Have you
nothing to say to me ? Shall I come
to Pierreport for my answer?"

'' To Pierreport — yes," she whispers,
looking at him with her frank tender
eyes, while the low-growing leaves fan
her cheeks, and kiss her soft smooth
hair.

And till then you will be as silent
to everybody else as you have been tome,
won't you, Honor?" says Stephen,
looking at her with passionate delight.

Silent?" repeats Honor, with a start.

Silent — upon this little matter — which
which we have settled together tonight,"
returned Stephen, hesitating,
while he fingers rather nervously the
dusky ivy leaves that seem to be holding
a sort of moonlight revel round him.
You see, I would rather tell your father
myself, and there is not time to do so
now. Besides, my prospects are not very
brilliant at present; I have not yet received
the promised letter from my uncle
in India."

'' India ! oh, Stephen !" said Honor.
And then her hands, which had been fingering
the leaves too, dropped down and
fell into each other.

It was a sudden revelation. Until that
moment Honor had never realized that
her cup of happiness being full — brimming
over, in fact, as little Gladys had said —
something must needs spill out of it. And
that something — what was it going to be ?

Honor knew, but she dared not answer
the question, even to herself. She only
stood there, still and silent, with her
hands caught together and her head
drooping as she listened to a certain
rustling and shuffling that was going on
behind the hollyhock hedge.

I shall follow you very soon," said
Stephen, interpreting her change of countenance
in the manner most flattering to
himself. And then he pushed his own
face up a little nearer, the better to look
at hers, no doubt.

They are close together, for Honoris
still standing on the verandah-steps,
and Stephen is leaning against the iron
railing below. Their lips just meet — like
flowers blown together by the soft summer
wind — the dark curly locks and the
fair shining hair mix and mingle together
for a moment — then a bird-like voice from
behind the hollyhocks —

Gladys !" cried Honor, turning away

from Stephen's arms and darting up the
verandah steps.

'' Always Gladys," said Stephen, not
jealous now, as indeed he had no right to
be ; but looking after her and laughing, ashe
strode away in the darkness with the
echo of her voice ringing in his ears.

Protoplasm !

Then when we meet and thy look strays toward me,
Scanning my face and the changes wrought there,
Who let me say, * is this stranger regards me,
With the grey eyes, and the lovely brown hair?' "

MATTHEW ARNOLD.

TEPHEN AYLMER was in that
chronic condition common to
many young men of the present
day. He was waiting for something
to do.

He had been waiting a long time, five
or six years at least ; in fact, ever since
he had left the roof of the Rev. Edward

Carmicliael, whose pupil he had been.
Nor did there seem any immediate prospect
of his patience being rewarded.
Meanwhile he was amusing himself by
playing at various professions, taking
care to leave off each game directly
he found himself beginning to tire of
it.

Once, indeed, soon after he had left the
vicarage. Sir Henry Aylmer, governor of
an Indian province, and the young fellow's
uncle, had written and offered his nephew
a post in that country. But Stephen,
who was at that time enjoying himself at
Oxford, and who had not quite made up
his mind as to whether he meant to become
a poet or a painter, had declined the
offer with very scanty thanks. Whereupon
the uncle had relapsed once more
into silence or indifference, and being a
man of a scriptural turn of mind, " washed
his hands " of his nephew, as he himself
expressed it.

From Oxford young Aylrner went to
Munich, and from Munich to Florence,
and from thence half round the world.
He did not go to India, however, but travelled
as lie said to make sketches and
pick up ideas. He had no lack of talents.
On the contrary, his misfortune was to
possess too many, and they all seemed to
be fighting within him for supremacy one
against the other, like tradesmen in a
country town competing for custom.

He had an ardent artistic temperament,
neutralized by intense restlessness.
He could work for an hour, he
could be enthusiastic for a day ; but
he soon wearied even of his own
emotion, and, as I have said, was given
to skimming the cream off a good many
things, and to abandoning each when the
time came for churning the cream into
butter. Am I wrong in thinking that
a taste for cream, and an incapacity
for churning, is one of the saddest

gifts nature bestows upon her children?
Young Aylmer laboured under another
disadvantage. He was an orphan (which
perhaps accounted for his remaining so
long under Mr. Carmichael's tuition), and
his father's small fortune had lain by fora
good many years, and consequently accumulated
pleasantly. When Stephen
came of age he found himself rich enough
to be careless of work, but not independent
of it. His fortune was sufficient to
enable him to live comfortably, and enjoy
himself moderately, but not sufficient to
pay for all his various experiments in
various professions. The life at Munich
and the studio at Florence had cost something,
and there were bills coming in from
Oxford still. He found when he returned
from his grand tour that he had broken in
upon his capital. This alarmed him. He
was not near starvation yet, but he was
sufficiently frightened to swallow a biggish
slice of humble pie. He wrote to his uncle

and inquired meekly whether there was
any post now vacant in his province
which he was qualified to fill? It was
Honor who urged him to do this. She
looked over his shoulder as he wrote, and
sealed the letter when it was finished.
It will be so good for you to have some
real work to do," she had said in her old-fashioned
motherly sort of way.

Stephen looked at her doubtfully. It
was one of the times when he thought she
might have guessed a little at that story
he was obliged to tell her so plainly in
St. Mark's Road.

In course of time, an answer came from
India. It was brief, and to the point.
There was no vacancy at present. It
was possible one might occur shortly.
Should this be the case. Sir Henry would
write again. Meanwhile Stephen would
do well to qualify himself for any appointment
by improving his knowledge of hindustan
and Indian affairs in general.

Stephen and Honor were great friends.
They had always been so since the awful
moment, when he, a long-legged awkward
boy of ten had first stood in the Vicarage
drawing-room, and was stared at mercilessly
by four other boys, whose companion
he was destined to be, while his
tutor went blundering about among the
chairs and tables, and blinked at him
feebly now and then, and made faint remarks
to an invalid lying on a sofa near
the window, from the side of whom a
little toddling girl came forward and put
her small soft hand into his, and looked
up at him with her blue-grey eyes, and
lisped " I will like you, boy."

It was very absurd, almost laughably
so. It was just like the mouse that tried
to patronize the lion, or the daisy who
declared she would keep all the dew-drops
that fell to her share in her golden cup for
the overshadowing oak-tree to drink. So,
at least, thought Stephen Rhymer, as the

VOL. T. M

little child's soft fingers silently stole into
his own grimy palms. But all the same
their touch comforted him. He had
been used to blind adoration from his
mother hitherto, and now there seemed to
be no one to offer it, or indeed to take any
notice of him at all except this child.
The boy valued her attentions accordingly
and drank daily of the daisy's dew. I
wonder whether he ever remembered the
fate of that little flower ?

They were great friends, but they used
to quarrel a trifle now and then. The
oak-tree would be rough at times, and
then the daisy would shut up her golden
cup and let him have no more dew that
day. Next day, however, she would give
him a double allowance ; which is a way
many women have of reconciling a past
sense of injury with a present gush of
compassion. And if there is not much
justice in it, there is at any rate a good
deal of pathos.

Honor's nature was essentially womanly,
and from a very early age she had learnt
to be motherly. She had not had much
care taken of herself, poor little soul, but
she had early learnt that her way of life
was to take care of other people. Her
mother had been a confirmed invalid,
whose colourless existence was scarcely
missed from the house when it vanished,
save by the husband to whom she had
been the '' one love of his life," and
the little daughter who had grown up to
bear her parent's burdens with a patience
and tenderness beyond her years. And
then there was Gladys, a mere baby, laid
upon the lap of another baby, but who yet
lacked nothing of a mother's care, or a
mother's love. It is a great thing, no
doubt, to discover one's vocation in life,
but it is rather a misfortune, I think, to
have to practice it whilst one is very
young.

It certainly was so to Honor Carmichael.

M 2

At a time when other girls are counting
balls and their parties, or at best, evolving
a new dress out of an old one, this little
motherless maiden was adding up the
butcher's bills, and gravely discussing infantile
diseases with the family doctor.
She led an isolated life, and had no one
to guide her, and nothing to lean upon,
except her own judgment — which is generally
a broken, or at any rate a feeble
uncertain reed for so young a girl. Her
governess had died when her pupil was
seventeen, and it had not been thought
necessary to replace her. Her father,
who had always disliked society, had shut
himself up entirely since his wife's death,
and lived among his books like an oyster
in its shell. He gave up taking pupils,
and devoted himself to his studies. Meanwhile,
Honor, who was only a girl, not a
book, grew up (almost unknown to her
father) with a sweet, eager, wistful face,
and a heart so full of tender cares and home

duties, there seemed to be scarcely any
room in it for anything or anyone else.

1 do not know — I think I must be
very cold-hearted," she had said one day
to Mr. Wynch, the curate, to whom she
had once been engaged for a weary
month ; ''I have tried, but I do not feel
as if I should ever be able to love you."

Perhaps your time for love has not
yet come, dear," the good little man had
answered, hoping against hope, and
twitching his poor face terribly, as he
took back the ring he had placed on her
finger himself, and which she now
pulled off of her own accord with a
delicious tug of relief.

I do not think I shall ever have time
to love," she said, flushing up. " Not
anybody or anything new, I mean," she
added, trying to make matters smooth,
but failing altogether so far as Mr. Wynch
was concerned. And then she went back
to her butcher's books, and let down a

tuck in Gladys' frock, and looked out the
sermon her father was to preach next
Sunday, and tried between whiles to feel
a little sorry for Mr. Wynch, but only
succeeded in feeling — oh ! so glad for
herself. After all, she certainly could not
be much of a loss to anyone, except perhaps
to the home people, and all the old
things there. So, at least, she thought of
herself.

Stephen Aylmer, I suppose, must have
been a part of the old things, for he
seemed to slip quite easily into his place
immediately after his return from his
journey round the world. Perhaps, in
truth, he had never slipped out of it,
though Honor told him frankly she had
not thought of him once during all his
five years' absence, and should certainly
not have known him in his present bronzed
and bearded condition, had his name not
been announced at the door.

Should you not ?" said Stephen, not

quite knowing whether to be offended or
amused. He had been accustomed of
late to a certain amount of flattery and
deference from mothers who believed his
fortune to be greater than it was, and
daughters who admired his sentimental
dark eyes and dreamy poetic air; and
here was this girl, whom he had
known from her babyhood, and who
had lived in a hole all her life — a London
hole, be it well understood, narrow
and cramped, and smoke-beclouded — and
who had known nothing, and seen nothing,
and felt nothing, snubbing him
on their very first interview after a long
separation. It was either very humiliating
or very ludicrous.

She was a pretty girl, however — a very
pretty girl indeed she looked, as she sat
there under the old verandah, with the
shadow of the wind-swayed leaves flecking
her fair hair and her grey dress ; and
her soft blue-grey eyes looking up at him

with that strange, wondering, unconscious
Undine expression in them, which
they never wholly lost in all the long
years that came after, in which her soul
was wide awake, and painfully alive to
every breath of love, and hate, and joy,
and pain ; yes, she was certainly looking
very pretty just then, or else the travelled
and most experienced Stephen would
hardly have taken the pains to continue
his conversation with her.

Then I am glad to find that my
memory is better than yours," he said.
'' / should have known you anywhere ;
you have not changed a bit."

Honor laughed incredulously.

"Not changed a bit!" she cried.
Why I was only fourteen when you
went away, and now I am nearly twenty,
and feel a hundred."

That may be so," maintained Stephen,
stoutly, " but all the same you are not
changed a bit."

And Stephen was right. Honor was
not changed a bit, had hardly grown at
all. She was a child still — a child in her
utter unconsciousness and absorption in
her present duties — a child in her total
want of thought and feeling for the
future. In some ways, indeed, she was
quite as much of a child as Gladys
herself, and it was only after hearing of
some of the wonders of the world from
Stephen Aylmer, that she found out it
was stupid to have lived in one place all
her life. That young craftsman had been
half inclined to resent, half disposed to
profit by the result of his handiwork.

It is true there are people who go
through life without making such discoveries,
and it is also true that they are
by no means the least agreeable or the
most useless folks in the world. Sisters
who live in communities often do so, and
so do women who are brought up and
nurtured by the tenderest care, and who,

in the course of nature, pass from love to
love, and change their homes and duties
perhaps, but not their conditions of life.
But it was not to be so with Honor ; it
never is, I think, with those whose
destiny it is to influence in any great
measure other lives by their own. She
had slept long, but she was going to
wake now. We must be awake to move
ourselves or others. We may toss about,
talk incoherently in our sleep at times ;
but then, who cares to listen ?

PIERREPOET.

'"' Strong and free, strong and free,

The flood-gates are open — away to the sea."

CHARLES KINGSLEY.

HE Carmichaels had a prosperous
journey both by land and by
sea. Miss Pincock's aspirations
for her friends' welfare on that point were
gratified.

They have been, by this time, about
three weeks at Pierreport, and certainly,
so far as her father and little Gladys
were concerned, Honor had had no reason
to regret the chance that had brought

them thither. Mr. Carmichael, in particular,
looked ten years younger, and
twenty degrees better than he had done
in London. He had brought his books
with him, but he took them out walking
over the long yellow sands, or up and
down the steep, twisting, winding street,
and he read them as he went, instead of
in his stuffy little study at home. He
still kept them beside him at meal times,
but he made a ponderous joke one day
about '' Bacon for the mind, and bacon
for the body," which was highly appreciated,
and ever after he tried to say
something elephantine funny concerning
the quaint little dishes prepared for him
by the united efforts of Honor and Rosa-line,
the cook. He even caught himself
laughing once, over some little witticism
of Gladys', in an odd, pathetic, half-sad,
half-wistful way that touched Honor
strangely. When would they all be so
happy together again ? How strange it

is that grown-up beings can never enjoy
the present, without over-shadowing itbya
thought of either the future or the past.
Honor, you see, was a child no longer.
She had a future now.

As for little Gladys, her days were
passed in a series of ecstatic delights,
to which the hours by no means sufficed.
She passed long sunny mornings on the
sands, piling up palaces which the waves
knocked down. She tasted the sea-foam,
and found its saltness intoxicating. She
dabbled her little white feet in shallow,
shining, sun-warmed pools of water, left
behind, forgotten, perhaps, by the sea,
their mother. She went to market with
Rosalind, where two sous bought more
than two sous have ever done before or
since; while men in blue blouses, with
their hands in their pockets, and their
feet among pots and pans, (the apparently
chronic condition of market-men in
France,) would turn cautiously amid

their crockery and stare at the English
child, with her floating hair like vraisfils
(Tor; and old wrinkled-faced women,
sitting cosily under gigantic umbrellas,
red, blue, green, a,u choix, would hunt
among their freshest wares, and find many
a ripe reme claude, bursting with yellow
sweetness, for the lips of the White princess,
or present her with great bunches
of creamy pink roses to match her cheeks.
French people, even among the lower
orders, have always such a passion for
beauty.

Furthermore the child had established
a nodding acquaintance with her opposite
neighbour, the little curly-headed son of a
hairdresser, Gaspard Bonnet by name.
Also she had made a friend among the
sisters of the Convent of Notre Dame de
Bon Secours hard by, and on one occasion
had nearly precipitated herself from the
window in her anxiety to kiss her hand to
Soeur Genevieve. She learnt to jabber

French fast enough ; she wore a big flopping
hat and yellow sand-boots ; her little
hands grew sunburnt, her tiny turned-up
nose was freckled, her — but what is the
use of writing down all these things ?
Every blade of grass has its drop of honey-dew,
every grain of sand a diamond for
such children as Grades Carmichael.

And Honor ?

With Honor all was well too, and even
if had not been so, I don't think anyone
would have been the wiser. She was
never a girl to think much about her
own feelings, in fact, as she would have
told you herself, she had never hitherto
had time to do so. If other people were
happy, that was enough for her. There
is a Turkish proverb which says, '' The
candle does not give light to itself." If
those she loved had light enough — love,
and all the other necessaries of life, Honor
was quite content to be their candle.

But at Pierreport, it must be confessed,

she had more time for thinking
about herself than she ordinarily had in
London. There were no schools to visit
here, nor any poor parishioners to lament
with over short-comings in the matter
of coals, or the degeneracy of things
in general. Neither were there any
weekly worries in the shape of butchers'
bills ; Rosaline undertaking all the details
of housekeeping, and performing her
duties in the most jealous and mysterious
manner. So Honor was free to dream
dreams, and think about her secret all day
long if she chose. And as she found both
occupations very agreeable, she spent a
good deal of her time upon them, especially
upon the latter. For a secret which
is all one's own (all one's own and one
other's. Men rendu) not unfrequently
gets more attention than it deserves.
One must look at it so often to see if it
is safe.

It was so with Honor. She was always

pulling out her secret, and looking at it
in such a constant and open manner, that
she used to wonder sometimes that other
people did not see it too. And for my
part, I wondered also. There was love
written so clearly in her happy dreaming
eyes, and joy painted so distinctly on her
bright smooth cheeks, that whosoever ran
might read. No one did seem to care to
read it however — more's the pity, perhaps.
It was written there plainly enough one
sunshiny morning, as she sat on the sands
gazing at the sea, grey in front and green
behind, with the irregular white line of
English coast faintly gleaming in the
background, whilst Gladys played round
her, building her castles, and looking a
little wistfully at other master-builders
who had workmen under them. She
would have liked to join them, even asa
hireling, but no one invited her. French
children generally regard English children
as unapproachable, and English folks, it

VOL. I. N

is well known, down to the last generation,
have a natural distrust of one
another.

How fast they jog along," said Gladys
the builder, striking work for a time, and
looking back at Honor, who was sitting
behind her, building her castles too. " It
is just like the hearses coming back from
a funeral."

My dear little woman !" said Honor,
startled, as the child's words fell across
the thread of her own very pleasant private
meditations and broke it. " What a
dreadful comparison ; and what is it that
jogs along like a hearse ?"

Why the bathing-machines, of course.
They r-rumble along over the sands, just
like the hearses coming back from Kendal
Gr-reen." (Gladys had just achieved pronouncing
a French " r," and though it
stuck like a burr on her tongue, she was
not a little proud of the accomplishment).
I often see them going down St. Mark's

Road, when the funeral is over, and all the
mutes sit outside among the feathers, and
they talk together, and sometimes even
laugh — and I always feel so sorry for the
poor dead person they have left behind ina
hole. It would be much nicer to be
buried in the sea, I think," continued the
child, musingly. " The sand would be so
soft and nice to he on, and the waves overhead
would sound like church-bells tolling,
and "

** What nonsense you are talking,
Gladys," said Honor, rather sharply.
It seemed to her, somehow, that a cloud
had suddenly gone over the sun.

Well, perhaps I am," admitted Gladys,
candidly, "but even nonsense is better
than nothing at all, and you never speak
at all now. Honor."

'* Don't I, darling?" said Honor, with a
sudden rush of compunction. Had she
then been so selfish, thinking her own
thoughts and neglecting her little sister,

N 2

and had the child found it out before she
had done so herself ? " Come then, we
will make up for lost time now," she
said. " Shall I tell you a story, or would
you like to go into the town and look at
the shops ?"

The child, who found a strange attraction
in the narrow streets, full of funny
shops and bustling people, who clattered
about in their wooden shoes and stared at
them as they passed, instantly chose the
latter proposal. She picked up her spade
and her basket of shells, and Honor
threw her thoughts to the winds, and off
the sisters started, arm-in-arm, as their
way was.

It was nearly mid day, and the streets
were very hot, and the air still and windless.
Everything seemed to be asleep in
the sun, the old women under their umbrellas,
the dogs on the door-steps, the flies
on the cakes and creams in the window of
the patissier. Even the gleaming grey

water, lapping lazily against the wet
wooden beams of the little harbour, sang
a sort of irresistible lullaby, as it rocked
the small brown fishing-craft that lay
slumbering on its breast. One boat,
indeed, braver than the rest, had spread
her brown sails, and set off confidently
in the hope that at high tide a wind might
arise and drive her out to sea.

But she had only drifted a little way
across the harbour, and there she was
now, hovering over the shining waters,
like a brown butterfly pinned on to a
sheet of paper. The rest of her companions,
less venturesome, remained huddled
together in a corner of the harbour, where
they looked indeed like

Dead flies, well nigh stagnated'*

Oh ! how hot it is," said Gladys, almost
panting.

They turned down the next street. It

was a sort of passage, dingy and therefore
shady.

"If we go along here, and then up
those steps at the end," said the child,
looking round and recognizing her whereabouts,
" we shall go past Lili's house.
Do let us do that, Honor."

Honor prepared to do it, of course. She
always obeyed the little one implicitly.

But who is Lili ?" she asked.

Oh, don't you know Lili — Rosalind's
niece," cried Gladys, communicative.
She comes to our kitchen sometimes,
and Rosaline always gives her a big basket
to carry away with her. Her mother is
a fish wife, and she has two little brothers
called Hyacinthe and Violet. And they
live in such a funny little house, and they
always keep their door wide open."

They had reached the top of the steps,
whilst Gladys was detailing all this valuable
information. A steep street now
rose before them, paved with large round

slippery stones, and bounded by houses
so high and narrow that they seemed
almost to meet at the top, like trees in
an avenue. All of them seemed, too, to
follow the fashion of Lili's house in the
matter of open doors. Perhaps, on the
whole, this was fortunate, as it gave
the casual passer-by an opportunity of
inspecting the most ordinary and domestic
occupations of the dwellers within,
and of ascertaining, by the use of his
eyes, that these avocations were not
exclusively connected with stale fish, ashe
might otherwise have imagined by
means of another sense.

For this was Mont St. Michel, the
fishing suburb of Pierreport, and here,
amid clouds of brown nets, and gusts
of fishy smells, the matelots and mate-hottest
with their teeming families did love
to dwell.

Here come Lili and her mother,"
cried Gladys ; as a short, stout woman ina

black petticoat, and a tight white cap
tied under her chin, with a little girl
dressed exactly like her holding on to
her skirts, came clattering down the
street in their big wooden shoes.

Gladys ran forward to meet them with
outstretched hand and beaming face.
But the fish-wife either did not or would
not see the English child; she looked
resolutely on the other side, and went
on clattering faster and faster, and
louder and louder. The little girl peeped
out of one of her eyes at Gladys, and
grinned a little greeting; but her hand
being in her mother's she was dragged
quickly on. Gladys fell back disappointed.


*' They don't seem to know me," she
said, in an aggrieved tone of voice. And
then she looked up at Honor, expecting
some sympathy — which, for once in her
life, she did not get.

AN AWKWARD MEETING.

Singing : and as the sweet voice of a bird,
Heard by the lander in a lonely isle,
Moves him to think what kind of bird it is
That sings so delicately clear, and make
Conjecture of the plumage and the form ;
So the sweet voice of Enid moved Geraint.

Who thought and said,

Here, by God's grace, is the one voice for me.' "

TENNYSON.

Nor had grown dreamy and
meditative again, and Griadys
was thinking of her own wrongs
with regard to Lili, so the pair walked
on in silence for some time.

Honor was rather troubled in her
mind. She did not like the notion of
an acquaintanceship between Gladys

and Rosaline's niece; but she did not
know how to prevent it. Rosaline, who
was a fine-looking woman, with black
eyes, and gold earrings, and an apparently
unlimited supply of crisp white
caps, was not a person to be spoken
lightly to. Moreover she was not even
the Carmichaels' own servant, but had
merely passed into their service for the
time being, together with the church, and
the chaplain's rooms in the Rue Bon
Secours. And the chaplain himself would
as soon have thought of finding fault
with the shape of his church windows,
as Honor of objecting to any thing hitherto
done by the immaculate Rosaline. Nevertheless
she felt rather uneasy.

Meanwhile the sisters had been clambering
slowly up the steep slanting street,
which, widened gradually as they mounted.
It opened out at last on an old grey
church, standing alone on the top of the
hill, with a borderland of churchyard

straggling up after it, and a pretty green
landscape stretching out beyond. The
church was full of votive offerings, silver
hearts, and crosses, and model boats with
quaint touching inscriptions appended
to them. It was the fisherman's church ;
within its walls simple, faithful women
were wont to kneel with streaming
eyes and agonized hearts, when their
men " went away from them ; and before
its altar they would bring their thank-offerings
when those dear ones, their
fathers, husbands, brothers, lovers returned
in safety from the dangers of the
deep. The church was called St. Michel.
But the sisters did not go in to inspect
these offerings. They lingered fora
moment at the churchyard gate, and
looked out over the tombs at the pretty
far-stretching country beyond. There
was a wood in the background, and a
white shining road leading towards it;
in front there were some fields full of

waving wheat, and a windmill or two,
set here and there as if to remind the
corn of its approaching destiny. And
then just before them wound an enticing-looking
lane, cool and shady, and bounded
by high green hedgerows, down which
Queen Gladys immediately elected to go.

But the hedgerows, alas ! were gay deceivers,
and only existed for a very short
way down the lane. When they came to
an end, the sisters found themselves
walking on a bare bleak bit of road, cut
apparently out of the very edge of the
hill. On one side there was a steep
white path, half cut into steps, winding
away like a serpent through the bushes
and down to the shore ; on the other,
rose a row of stiff small houses in various
stages of erection. It was evidently new
ground they had chanced upon — a place
full of possibilities ; but devoid as yet of
interest or association.

Most of these houses were mere shells

protoplasm of dwelling places, filled
with dust, instead of human beings. One
house, however, seemed to be both
finished and occupied. It was a small
house just like the rest, with green
jalousies, and a tiny flowerless garden in
front. Its jalousies were open, and so
were the windows, and through the space,
sun warmed, sunlight, a stream of
music came floating out, drifting over the
little dreary garden, and flooding the
narrow dingy lane.

The music was a voice — a young girl's
voice, pure and clear as well-water, but
rich and luscious withal; and the song
that she sang was that song of Madame
Amiable Taste's, which is so full of
sorrow, and so void of suffering.

monde ! 6 vie 6 temps fantom, ombres vaines,
Qui lasses a la fin, mes pas irresolute ;
Quand reviendront ces jours, ou vos mains talent

pleines,
Vos regards carressants, vos promesses certaines,
Jamais, 6 jamais plus !"

"Is chat good singing'* asked
Gladys, who though a chorister of St.
Mark's, entertained but a poor opinion
of her own performances. *' I don't like
it at all," she added, shaking her golden
head, and laughing.

Honor laughed too — a little low strange
sort of laugh, that had somehow the
shadow of shudder trembling through it.
But she did not answer the child.

They walked on, nearing the house
with the open windows, and looking up at
it as they approached. The houses were
numbered already, and this one was
marked No. IV., but No. lY. of what—
rue — passage— venue, neither Honor nor
Gladys had the least idea. They learnt
to know it well enough though; one of
them indeed far too well, before those
Pierreport days were over.

Suddenly the house-door of No. lY.
opened, letting out a fresh burst of music
and two gentlemen as well, who stood fora

moment on the threshold talking together.
Then they strolled leisurely
down the garden way, unlatched the gate,
and went out into the lane.

How she sings /" said one of them in
good, round, vibrating, Teutonic English,
as he passed the sisters. He was walking
along with his face upturned, and his soul
far away from his body, and being
somewhat clumsy as well as exceedingly
bulky, he rolled up against little Gladys,
and nearly knocked her over. " Ah !
entschuldigung,'' he said, setting the
child straight with his big hands. And'
then with a heavy sigh, as if drawn out
of the depths of an unfathomable heart,
he added to his companion : " It is just
like all the angels, her zinging J'

His companion laughed in a strange
grating way. He was considerably older
than the other, and could not naturally be
expected to express such raptures.

Yes — she sings well enough," he

returned carelessly, and in unmistakable

English. "Not indeed so well as "

with a sigh too, which he checked instantly,
as he checked his words, *' I
mean not altogether after the manner of
the angels, as perhaps you will find out
for yourself some day, Herr Gras."

Herr Gras rubbed his hands, and looked
as if he had received the most acceptable
compliment in the world. He was one
of those big, blue-eyed, blundering fellows,
with fair curly hair, round rosy
cheeks, and a hesitating uncertain way of
moving and speaking, such as Nature
turns out by the bushel in all countries,
and from which the great Fatherland is
certainly not exempt. They are usually
men of one idea, frank, foolish, faithful,
with a peculiar knack of tumbling into
scrapes, and an honest way of scrambling
out of them. They are weak, and
easily led both to good and to evil ; they
suifei keenly sometimes, but they do not

suffer long, and on the whole they lead
lives as happy and worthy as it is given
to mortals with good consciences, and
humble hopes for the future, to enjoy
here.

The Gras's companion was a very different
looking man. He was tall and
slight, with something of the ancien
mousquetaire in his manner and bearing.
He had deep-set steel-coloured eyes,
and a heavy grey moustache. His hair
was streaked with grey too, and his
nose was gracefully hooked— not irregularly
peaked after the fashion of Mr.
Punch or Napoleon Trois, but with that
true aristocratic look with which a beneficent
providence has gifted some of our
noblemen, in order, no doubt, that humbler
folks might be enabled to hang up their
hats upon them. He was English undoubtedly,
and yet his clothes had a
decided foreign cut. From his looks he
might have been a Duke ; he was in truth

VOL. I. ^

an Earl's son, and a man of certain age
and standing, and yet he seemed to be
paying immense deference to the mean-looking
boyish German by his side.

Meanwhile the sisters had wandered on
down the lane, which by this time had
begun to turn and twist about like a
wriggling wounded worm. The white
path down to the sea seemed to have lost
itself in a tangle of furze-bushes. The
unfinished houses had come to an abrupt
termination ; and over the hedges and the
piles of rubbish, the singing girl's voice
drifted faintly and plaintively, like a faraway
bell at sea. Another sudden bend,
another sharp curve ; the road was growing
narrower and rougher with each step
and then, lo and behold it ended altogether,
in two walls of mud and a
damp-looking field.

Alas ! it is not only country lanes
which end like this. There have been
many and many a bright beginning in

this world of ours, whose progress has
been checked by the mire of sloth and
indolence, or choked up by stones rolled
against it by envious and ungrateful
hands. For life is one long battle ; and
all our forces are useless — our armies
of energy, and thought, and hope, fight
in vain — unless we set out with a vanguard
of sappers and miners, prepared to throw
down as well as uprear.

''I suppose we must go back," said
Honor, surveying rather ruefully the.
perspective of mud, stretching out like a
dim dark sea before her. "I think
those steps will take us down to the
shore, and if so, we can go home that
way."

But if so, we shall have to go back,
and pass that stupid awkward man
again, who tumbled up against me just
now," objected Gladys, rubbing an imaginary
injured shoulder.

What else was to be done ? The muddy



field and the stile led apparently nowhere,
except perhaps to one or two black-looking
cottages in the distance ; the winding
path most likely went down to the shore.
After a moment's consideration, the sisters
turned back.

Gladys' injurer was still ambling up
and down in front of the house with the
open windows. His head was still upturned,
his soul had evidently not yet
returned to its body, or, to speak more
correctly, his heart to its home. He was
alone. His companion had disappeared.
From the other end of the lane, the figure
of a woman was seen approaching.

'* Why — here comes Madame Pl^on,"
said Gladys, making out the figure as it
drew nearer.

'' And who is Madame Ple^on ?" inquired
Honor, " you seem to know everybody
hereabouts, Queenie."

Madame Mon is a sort of head bathing-woman,"
explained Gladys. " She calls

herself the superintendent of the ladies
who bathe, and she is always on the beach
every morning till one o'clock. I saw her
thereto-day; but it was at Lili's house
that I saw her first," added the child, preparing
for a meeting and a greeting.

Madame Pleon, however, was not equally
prepared on this occasion. Her head was
turned away, not in the direction of the
singing voice, but towards the steps
and the winding path. There must have
been something very interesting to her in
that spot, for she crossed the road suddenly
and looked again. She was a tall
handsome woman of about forty years of
age, well-dressed in a costume that was
half paysanne and half bourgeois. She
carried a basket under her arm — a flat
open basket, with no handle and no cover,
and containing probably her marketings
for the week.

The basket was full to the brim. There
were all sorts of miscellaneous articles in it,

from a pair of sabots to a fine fat oisoUy such
as it would have gladdened the heart of
good King Henry to see in a house-wife's
hands. All the things lay loosely huddled
together, and Madame Pl^on carried the
basket, which was a wide one, by merely
stretching her arm across it.

And so it chanced that Herr Gras, backing
slowly with his eyes upturned towards
Maison Numero quatre ; and Madame, walking
towards him rapidly, but looking in
the other direction, came into sudden and
unexpected collision. The basket and its
contents were upset, and Honor and
Gladys, who happened to be passing at the
precise moment, seemed to be somehow
mixed up in all the confusion.

Herr Gras was profuse in his apologies.
He poured out a torrent of entschuh
diggings. He bowed and scraped indiscriminately
to Honor and to Madame
Pleon. He stroked the poison in the most
paternal manner. When order was once

more restored, however, his head resumed
its slanting position, his face its rapt expression.
The sisters and Madame Pleon
went their was, each in a different direction,
and left him standing before the
house.

What a very awkward, clumsy man !"
said Gladys, feeling somehow as though
her suspicions with regard to her shoulder
had been justified. '' And see, there is a
letter lying on the ground. That must
have dropped out of the basket, too."

The child began running back, but at
that moment the Gras also caught sight
of the letter, and picked it up, and brought
it to Honor.

Is it yours, Mademoiselle ?" he asked.

Honor shook her head. The letter was
addressed to Madame Pleon, but there
was no other direction on it. The Gras
glanced at it too.

He started as he read the direction.
*' Madame Pleon !" he repeated, in a wondering

tone. And then he stared at the
words again, and then he looked at Honor
as though he half expected her to explain
some mystery to him (it was strange how
instinctively even strangers would turn to
that sweet grave face for help or advice),
and then he took to his heels, and, fat and
burly as he was, seemed absolutely to fly
after Madame Pl^on.

Are you not coming, Reichenau ?"
cried his late companion, suddenly shooting
up his head above the steps. '' We
shall miss the train unless you make
haste."

One little moment," panted the Gras,
still on the track of Madame Pl^on.
One little moment, good friend, I will be
with you."

The Gras's little moment, however,
turned out to be a long one — so long, indeed,
that Honor and Gladys had time to
walk to the end of the lane and back
again before he had concluded his conversation

with Madame Pl^on. He turned
away at last, but he still looked very much
excited, and was writing down something
in his pocket-book as he came along. He
did not even pause to give one lingering
look to Maison Numero quatre, but went
quickly down the steps and rejoined his
companion. They hurried on together,
and Honor and Gladys following, could
see their black heads bobbing in and out of
the winding-path, till at last they disappeared
in a curve of the road that led
to the town.

The sisters walked on slowly. They
could not hear the music any longer. It
was all very still and quiet in that lonely
path among the furze-bushes.

Suddenly — behind them — there was a
rush, a flutter, a sound such as the waves
make when they suck in their foamy lips
and run back from the shore to the sea ;
and something dashed past them — something
in a blue dress, like a bit of Italian

sky, something with a lovely flushed face,
and gleaming grey eyes, and rough brown
hair curling in a sort of crop, under rather
a shabby hat.

That was the girl who was singing,
I am sure," said Griadys sagaciously.
And oh, Honor, did you see the holes in
her boots ?"

My dear little woman, you must not
always be looking out for holes in other
people," replies Honor rather sententiously.
'' But come now, let us see how
fast we can run down this last flight of
steps."

'rare we late, then?" asked Gladys,
looking up into her sister's face with
what Rosalind would call a sour ire fin.
*' Or are you expecting Stephen ?"

A STILL MORE AWKWARD MEETING.

Just saved, without pulse or breath,
Scarcely saved from the gulp of death."

CHRISTINA ROSSETTI.

F Honor had been expecting
Stephen she was doomed to
disappointment; and I hope
she committed to memory, before breakfast
next morning, that soothing text :
He that expected nothing, shall not be
greatly disappointed."

Now that I have written this down,

however, I am not quite sure that I
approve of the sentiment. Are not the
most melancholy and disappointed people
in the world just those who tell you with
a sigh, that " they never expect anything
good or pleasant to happen to tliemy
And does not expectancy contain half,
and a good half too, of the delights of
life ? The bird that is winging his way
towards us is a far finer fellow, sings
more sweetly, flies more fleetly, than any
amount of tame house-birds we may hold
in our hands. If, when he comes and
nestles in our bosoms at last, he turns
out to be but of a common species after
all, what does that matter ? We have,
at least, had the felicity of imagining
him beautiful. It is better to expect
something pleasant, even if one is disappointed
in the end, than never to expect
anything at all, or only something disagreeable.
At any rate, one has had
the pleasure of anticipation.

The morning after that meeting in
the lane rose bright and beautiful, which
was lucky, as an event which had been
looked forward to for some days was
about to take place. Gladys was to
bathe for the first time in her life. It
was an event which was remembered
for many and many a long year after.

The child woke early, almost before the
sun, and long before the nuns in the convent
opposite had begun to chant their
prime, or the milk-women and their
donkeys to tramp through the streets
with their clinking cans. But Honor
did not wake so soon, nor, indeed, at
all, till little Gladys, in her eager excitement,
roused her with a kiss. Then she
woke smiling. Perhaps — who knows? —
she had been dreaming of her bird.

The sisters were early down on the
beach, but a good many other people
were earlier still. They had to wait
some time before their turn came. They

were not much to be pitied, however,
for it was a lovely morning, as I have
already remarked. The air was sharp
like salt, and " strong like wine."
There was a briskness, a keenness, a
sort of metallic brightness everywhere
that was very exhilarating. The sun
shone like a king's face, and the wind,
salt-tasted too, curled Gladys' golden
hair, and wrinkled the crests of the
waves as they ran races along the shore.
Overhead, the sky was full of shifting
colours, subtle and sweet, while the sea,
catching here and there broken reflections
of broken beams, glittered and gleamed
like a field ablaze with fire-flies.

Honor, sitting on the shining sands,
with her hands clasped round her knees,
and her sweet blue eyes straying faraway
over the waves and the waters,
to yonder faint grey cliffs of England,
thought she could have looked at these
things for ever. She really had quite a

passionate love for the sea. It had
divided her from Stephen, it is true,
but it seemed to connect them, too.
He on that side, and she on this, and
the waves moving between them like
winged messengers of love. Honor, you
see, had learnt to be fanciful and poetical,
since she had been in love.

Gladys, however, was of quite a
different opinion, and thoroughly agreed
in the sentiments of Madame Pleon, who
was standing on the beach beside her.

Ah ! ;petite dame, it is weary work,
waiting, n'est-ce pas V she said, looking
down, and addressing the child with that
perfect mixture of familiarity and respect
which Southern people know so well how
to blend. "But courage, it is a work
one must needs get used to, if one
means to tarry long in this world of
ours." And her dark face softened into
a smile, as she looked down again at the
pretty, impatient, restless child.

There was some mystery about Madame
Pl^on. Some of the Pierreport people
shook their heads when they spoke of
her : others looked after her with a sort
of wondering curiosity. She was not of
their town, that was clear. She was
from the South, by her speech. She
lived in a little lonely cottage beyond
Mont St. Michel. She had but few
visitors, for she was not sociably inclined.
She was reputed to have performed some
miracles of swimming, and to be in
possession of various medals presented
to her by various Humane Societies.
She hated the sound of an English voice,
and the sight of an English face, and
that was about all that was known of
her.

There was always a tolerably large
English colony at Pierreport, so Madame
Pl^on had ample opportunities of exercising
her feelings towards that nation.
She could be impartial in the matter of

machines, but, Frenchwoman as she was,
she could not pretend to be porte. She
hated la perfide Albion with an absurd,
old-fashioned, unreasonable sort of hate.

And yet, here she is, this sunshiny
morning, smothering her feelings, and
wasting her time in talking to a little
yellow-haired English child, who sits on
the sands at her feet, and looks up at
her with wondering brown eyes. Such
a thing has never happened before.
Francette, the bathing woman, and Antoine,
the driver, look on in surprise.
In truth, it was almost a mystery to
Madame Pl^on herself. Nevertheless,
she seemed disposed to brave public
opinion.

'' Some of those people in the sea are
thy compatriotes, petite*' she said, in that
deep-toned voice of hers, which was as
unlike the sharp shrill voices of the
people round, as a flute is unlike a penny
whistle. " They are foolish a faire peur,

VOL. I. P

but they swim like fishes, that must be
allowed. But then, the time they remain
in the sea, chest incroyahle. Figurez-vous,
Mademoiselle'" (this was addressed with
great politeness to Honor, who was not
listening at all, but was still gazing at
the faint line of English coast,) '' there
is one jeune dame yonder who has been in
the sea for more than an hour. She is
amusing herself, and does not think of
those who wait on shore for her machine.
Oh, yes, she is English, pour Men sur.
It is only the English who are thus
selfish and greedy. But stay, we will
have a revenge. Her machine shall be
drawn up out of the water, and Mademoiselle
la nageuse shall have the felicity
of swimming to shore'*

Madame Pleon's revenge was speedily
accomplished, and a few minutes later
Honor and Gladys found themselves reeling
and rattling over the sands, in a dark,
dripping, jolting machine.

'' Is it rough ?" asked Gladys, as with
a mighty lurch the vehicle came to a full
stop.

Enough — oh no, dear ! it is not at all
rough," replied Honor, peeping out.
And, oh ! Gladys, there is a lady over
there swimming so beautifully. I wonder
whether she can be the English lady
Madame Pleon was telling us about just
now ?"

Let me see," said Gladys importantly.
"Yes, she does swim well. Can you
swim, Honor ?"

Honor shook her head, and confessed
she was minus that accomplishment.

No ? what a pity !" continued Gladys.
But I tell you what you could do.
Honor. You are so tall you could
easily stand upright where that lady is
swimming. And that would do quite as
well, you know, for then if I were
drowning, you could stoop down and pick
me up ; could you not, Honor ?"

P 2

I don't know, dear. I don't want
to make the experiment upon you." And
the clear sweet eyes dimmed at the very
thought.

The next moment, the sisters were
dashing and splashing about in the water,
like the merriest of merry mermaids.

The swimming lady still attracted
Gladys' attention.

Hark — she is singing now. Let us
go up nearer, and listen."

'' No, no, Queenie, it is time for you to
go in," said the prudent elder sister.
"Besides, it is rude to stare at people,
you know."

"Perhaps she would like it," suggested
Gladys. " And — listen — Honor. Don't
you hear? she is singing the same song
that the lady sang in the lane yesterday.
Jamais, 6 jamais plus, I can hear the
words quite plainly. And it is, yes, it
is," she added, wriggling herself round in
Honor's arms, to get a better view of the

swimmer, "it is the same lady who flew
past us yesterday. I can see her eyes,
they are so curiously bright— just like
polished steel — and — and just see how
funnily she is going now. Honor — all on
one side — do look."

Honor did look, but she saw nothing ;
for just at that moment the object of
Gladys' admiration ducked her head under
a wave.

She is only amusing herself, dear,"
said Honor. And then lifted the child up
in her arms, and set the little white feet
on the green slimy slippery steps of the
machine.

I don't think she is, though," returned
the child, with her face still turned
towards the sea. " Her hands are trembling
so — and — oh Honor what's that?^^
cried Gladys with a shudder, as a sharp
shrill cry rang out across the water.

Honor heard it too, and looked round
again. She saw two white arms flung

up wildly, fall back suddenly, and disappear.
Then there was a faint splash,
and after the splash — a silence.

Some one on the shore called out for
help, but the place was deserted just
then ; it was about one o'clock, and people
had gone home for their children's dinners.
Madame Pl^on had retreated to
her little pavilion to make up her daily
compte. Antoine, the driver, who was
half an idiot, was munching his dejeuner,
(bread and onions), as he sat on his horse,
high up on the sands with his back to
the sea. Help from the shore would belong
in coming, and Honor felt there
was not a second to lose.

She could not swim, but she was very
tall, as Gladys had said, and strong too,
she fancied. She lifted the little one into
the machine, and then dashed once more
into the sea.

It was getting rougher each moment,
for the tide was running in quickly now.

The waves knocked her down as she
went dashing through them, but she
got up again, and went on boldly and
bravely.

The sea rose round her — deeper behind
darker before, and tall as she was, she
was nearly out of her depth by this time.
Her feet scarcely touched the sand, her
eyes were full of salt-water and spray,
she was gasping for breath — panting —
staggering, but the motion of the waves
buoyed her up for a while, and she,
managed to struggle on somehow.

The water was clearer here however,
and deeper too — and down there — just
before her — she could see myriads of
shell and starfish, beating backwards
and forwards in the undercurrent of the
sea — and — and something else as well —
something loose and straight as ribbon
sea weed, or a girl's tangled hair — something
white as chalk, or a girl's upturned
unconscious face

For a second, Honor stood still as if
breathing a sigh, or a prayer. Then with
a wild step forward, a desperate plunge
through the maddening waters, she threw
herself down — down — till her lips meet
the cold lips under the sea, and her
fingers are caught in a web of drenched
drowned hair.

And after that she remembered nothing
more.

The waves buoy her up again, drive
her back a little. Her feet find their
footing ; her lips open once more to inhale
the sweet breath of heaven ; she stands
erect for a second, with a girl's dead, or
exhausted, form tightly caught within her
arms — but she knows nothing at all about
it.

She pushes the wet hair off her brow.
She shudders and shakes in qyqvj limb.
She looks round wildly once.

Then, slowly her eyes seem to close
again — the waves begin to gurgle like

burial-bells in her ears — and the sand —
is it the sand ? flutters across her cheek,
and falls like angels' kisses upon her
lips

^CUME DE MER

The earth hath bubbles, as the water has
And these are of them."

MACBETH.

HEN Honor opened her eyes once
more, she was lying, not under
the sea, but on the sandy
wooden floor of the comfortless machine.
The angels were all gone, except
Gladys, who was kissing her sister's cold,
clammy fingers, and Madame Pleon, who
if not much like an angel, was at least
a ministering spirit, employed at that
moment in pouring something warm and

life-restoring down the half-drowned girl's
throat.

But life, just then, seemed a long way
off to Honor Carmichael, and scarcely
worth the trouble of travelling back to.
She looked round slowly once, as if bidding
good-bye to all things near, and
then closed her eyes again. One of her
attendant spirits was in despair.

'' Oh, Honor — Honor, don't keep your
eyes shut like that. I don't like it. Don't
you hear. Honor ? Gladys does not like it".

Honor did hear, but she could not say
so just then. Nor could she quite
open her eyes again. But she opened her
arms, stretching them out a little wildly,
a little uncertainly, and that did as well.
The child flew into them, and lay curled
up on her sister's breast, like a folded
flower at sunset.

Madame Pleon looked at them, till her
bright black eyes grew quite dim and
misty. *' There were other sisters once,"

she murmured to herself, " who loved
like these; and yet they were parted."
Then she opened the door quietly, and
disappeared.

By-and-by Honor's memory began to
tingle once more (her throat had been on
fire for some time past), and shaking herself
up to a sitting position, she rubbed
her eyes vigorously, and said in quite her
usual voice, '' Where is she ?"

Oh, I don't know, Honor, dear,"
cried Gladys, plunging and kicking with
delight at seeing the loving blue eyes
wide open once more. " A big wave
went over you, you know, and then
Madame Pleon and Antoine rushed into
the sea, and picked you up, and another
lady too. And Madame Pleon brought
you in here, and Antoine carried the lady
away somewhere else. And a lady on
the beach said you were so brave, and
ought to have a medal. But I did not
care about your being brave. Your eyes

were close shut, and your face was so
white, and oh ! I was so frightened."

«< Were you, my darling — T am so
sorry," said Honor, winding her arms
closer round the little one. " But it's all
right now, you see," (a very big loving
stare) '' only I should like to know how
the lady is — "

Oh, she do well, a merveille, allez^^^
answered Madame Pleon returning, and
speaking in that comic sandwich sort of
language (one word of English between
two of French), which she had arranged
and composed expressly for the benefit of
the bathers. " We send for M. le medicine ;
but before he arrives, I rub la jeune personne
back to life. Et vous, mon enfant ?
how do you? dites donc?^^

Oh, I am all right," answers Honor
cheerfully, testifying to the same, by
working away rapidly at the completion
of her toilet.

** All right — that's all right," returns

the Frenchwoman. " I always say there
is nothing: like that blessed eau-de-vie.
But are you really able to walk, chere
meet?" she added, somewhat anxiously,
as she saw Honor making for the door.

If I could not, it would be the fault
of your blessed eau-de-vie, I should
think," replies Honor, laughing. And
then she goes down the machine steps,
perhaps a trifle more carefully than usual,
and waits on the sands for Madame
Pleon.

Are you going back to see that lady
now ?" she asks, as the Frenchwoman
joins her. "Because if you are, I
should like to go with you — that is if it
would not be intruding ?"

Madame P16on stands still for a moment,
and looks at her a little doubtfully.

Intruding — non, ce rest pas ^a," she
says hesitating. "But you see, I do not
know, I am not acquainted with this
young lady, and I am not quite sure

whether I ought to present her to you,
Mademoiselle."

I should not have thought, under the
circumstances, that an introduction was
necessary," says Honor, laughing at
Madame Pleon's comme il faut scruples,
and feeling rather excited by the mysterious
manner in which she had spoken.

Madame Pleon, however, was not accustomed
to being laughed at. She did
not understand it ; French people seldom
do ; and she was rather disposed to take ,
offence.

'' Come," she said, captiously. " It is
no business of mine. I do not know who
you are that I should care, except that
you have a look in your eyes that reminds
me a little — of some one I once knew.
As for the other young lady," (with a
shrug) ^' je vHen sais rien, either. True,
I have eyes, and ears, and a memory too,
and doubtless le hon Dieu does not give us
these things for nothing. Still, seeing

and hearing, and even remembering, that
is autre chose from knowing. But come
now, here we are arrived at the little
pavilions she continued, rejecting the
shower of apologies and thanks with
which Honor proposed appeasing her injured
feelings. " Entrez toujours, Mademoiselle,
la petite restore dehors un petit moment"

Mademoiselle la petite somewhat objected,
but on being assured by Honor,
it would " really be only a petit moment"
she consented to wait outside in the sunshine,
and admire Antoine's exploits
among the machines.

Honor followed Madame Pleon through
the open door of the gaily-painted
pavilion, and along a narrow corridor,
lined with bathing-dresses, and bladder-like
caps set out to dry. She was feeling
rather excited. Something new and
strange was certainly going to happen to
her. Hitherto her life had been so quiet,
so monotonous, a natural succession of

seasons, nothing more. Things had
grown up beside her as a tree grows.
Nothing ever seemed to happen unexpectedly.
Even Stephen's love, like Gladys'
life, was to her, but as the summer
flower of the spring-tide bud ; the tree
had blossomed, the flower had unfolded ;
it was very sweet — very beautiful — that
was all.

They had reached Madame Pleon's little
business room by this time. Honor looked
round curiously. There was the lady
superintendant's comptoir, with her papers
still scattered about, and on a table
in the corner the remains of the dejeuner,
from which she had been ruthlessly called
away by a cry on the beach. In another
corner there was a pile of blankets heaped
up against the wall, on which rude and
slanting couch a young girl was reclining.

The girl looked up as her visitors entered,
but said nothing. She was very
young evidently, and she looked at that

VOL. I. Q

moment, perhaps, younger than she really
was. Her feet were curled up under her;
her hair fell in a matted mass over her
shoulders. Her face was very pale, and
her whole attitude like that of a tired
child ; nevertheless, by the gleam of the
grey eyes and the sheen of her blue dress,
Honor recognized at once the bright-faced
girl who had shot past her, like summer
lightning, yesterday morning.

'' Mademoiselle," said Madame Pleon to
the girl on the blankets — she had undertaken
to do the honours, but she was not
going to do them with a very good grace
" here is the noble young English lady,
who by the aid of the Blessed Virgin and
all the saints, saved the Hfe of Mademoiselle
half-an-hour ago''

The grey eyes of Mademoiselle glanced
up quickly, then down again ; but her lips
said nothing.

Surely," continued Madame Pleon,
still in her position of mistress of the

ceremonies, " Mademoiselle cannot mean
to leave unthanked the young lady to
whom she owes so much."

Thus urged the girl opened her lips,
though she did not look up again.

"Mademoiselle," she said in French,
permit me to express to you my thanks
for having saved a life which is not of
the smallest value to anyone."

*' Surely that is not true," said Honor,
startled by the strangeness of the speech.

"Mademoiselle knows best," said Madame
Pl^on, shrugging her old shoulders
again .and staring hard at the girl. Then
she picked up a bundle of bathing-dresses
and left the room.

Honor stood still a moment, uncertain
whether to follow her, or to pursue her
acquaintance with the girl on the floor.

The latter settled the matter.

Is she gone ?" she asked in English,
clasping her hands behind her head, and
looking up at Honor with a quaint, comic

Q 2

expression on her face. " Dieu soil beni !
Come and sit here on this pile of bathing-dresses
— faugh ! how they smell of the
sea — and let me tell you that I did not
mean to be rude or ungracious to tow."

The emphasis was flattering. A pretty
appealing smile had succeeded the mocking
impish look, and Honor, as she took
her seat on the pile of bathing-dresses,
could not help feeling that the world was
the richer for her morning's work, or rather,
that it would have been the poorer had
those eyes and lips, and that dainty little
figure altogether been still lying mute
and motionless beneath the waves.

I always make a point of being rude
to old Pl^on on principle," continued the
girl. 'she hates me so, you know," she
added, as if in explanation of the principle.


She does not like English people, 1
have heard," said Honor, trying to put a
mild face on the matter.

Oh, but she has some especial and
particular hate for me," returned the girl,
with a strange grating sort of laugh. '' I
do not know the reason of it, but I found
it out before we had been here a month.
And when people hate one without a
cause, one may as well give them a reason
for doing so, I think."

Honor was puzzled by the rapid changes
in the girl's manner. They were so quick
and sudden, it seemed almost impossible
to follow them.

'' You do not live here then ?" she said,

Live here ! no, I should hope not. I
loathe and detest the place. But we have
been here a couple of months already,
and I cannot think why my father stays
on. We do not generally remain so long
in any place."

'* "Where do you live, then ?" asked
Honor. And the moment she had asked
the question she thought it was, perhaps,
rather an impertinent one.

I don't live anywhere," replied the
girl, abruptly. " I have no home'*

There was something so startling and
sad in the way in which the girl's voice
sank from its sharp, defiant, single notes,
to a plaintive pathetic chord, full of many
tones of feeling, that Honor's heart was
touched. She was more sorry than ever
that she had asked the question.

'' What are you looking so melancholy
about ?" said the girl, pushing up her
little bright chin after a moment's pause,
and peering sharply into Honor's face.
Don't think that J want a home. What,
one of your dull English homes," she
cried, letting her voice run up again, till
its glad high notes rang out like a peal of
bells, " where the father talks about the
weather all day long, and the mother
scolds her maids, and the girls mend their
stockings, and the boys run away for very
dullness — merci! I don't think that sort
of life would suit me. Is it yours ?"

Not quite," replied Honor, laughing.
*'I mend my stockings certainly, but I
have no mother and no brothers. I have
only one little sister to take care of, and
my father never talks about the weather,
and very seldom about anything else."

Oh ! how dreadful — are you not
alarmed about him ?" said the other,
laughing too. " And a little sister to
take care of " (repeating Honor's words
in her quaint Frenchified English). " Is
not that a trouble?"

A trouble ! Gladys a trouble ?" says
Honor, indignant as any mother. " Ah !
you do not know — you have never seen
her. And I must go now," she added,
rising, " she is waiting for me outside."

Oh, do not go yet," said the other,
rising also off her pile of blankets, and
shaking her hair back from her forehead,
till it fell in a bright rippling stream allover
her shoulders, and far down below
her waist. *' Do not go yet — I have seen

her, and I saw you, too, yesterday in the
lane beyond Mont St. Michel. But I did
not understand, because I have no one to
care for me ; no one to care about myself.
I cannot tell what it would feel like. I
am all alone."

All alone !" repeated Honor, gently.
I am so sorry for you. But surely you
have some friends ?"

'' I have my father," replied the girl,
briefly. " I have no friends. That
was my father you passed in the lane
yesterday," she continued, after a pause,
during which Honor remained silent
and thoughtful. " I knew you again
the moment you came into the room.
You have a look in your eyes that one
does not easily forget — a sort of restful
look, as though, here and there, some
poor tired souls had leant against yours
and found peace. Is that so?" she
asked, with a sudden change of voice.
'' Or has the look only grown into your

face through having had to rock the little
sister so often to sleep?"

Honor remained silent. There was a
sort of half-mocking, half-plaintive ring
in the girl's voice, which she could not
understand. Was she laughing at her,
or envying her ?

That was my father," continued the
girl, slowly, watching Honor. " He is
English. My mother was a Frenchwoman.
I cannot remember her, she died twelve
years ago, when I was six years old.
My name is Valentine Murray; what is
yours ?"

'' Honor Carmichael," said our gentle
Honor, softly. And then, the thought
of the time when it should be Honor
Something-else came rushing across her
mind, and she blushed all over, and
trembled a little, and her eyelids quivered
and fell, like little drifting white clouds
across the misty blue sky of her
eyes.

Valentine Murray watched her as if it
might be some curious book into which
she was glancing.

What are you thinking of ?" she
asked, abruptly.

The question brought Honor back with
a leap out of the past into the present,
and sent her thoughts flying out of her
own life into that of the girl by her
side. How lonely it must be, how poor,
and thin, and miserable ! how different
to her own, which was so full and rich
with many sorts of love ! Could she not
spare her some little scrap out of her
great abundance ? What is the use of
being rich, if one can never give away
anything ?

I am thinking," she said, very
softly, and stammering a little, " that it
must be terribly sad to be so much alone
as you say you are ; but if you like — that
is, if you choose, you need be so no
longer. For I think God must have intended

us to become friends, you and I,
and so let us meet this morning in the
sea."

Her voice trembled less as she went
on ; but she was very glad when her
little speech was concluded. It was like
making an offer of marriage, she thought.
How dreadful it must be to be a man,
and have to make such proposals to
women! And then, supposing one was
rejected ?

There was no fear of rejection in this
case, however. Valentine looked rather
surprised ; but far more pleased than
surprised. She flung her arms round
Honor's neck, (she was a little thing,
and Honor was very tall ; it was rather
like a bear hugging a pole,) and kissed
her with effusion.

Will you really be my friend ?" she
cried. " I never had one before. How
funny it seems; and a friend made
in the sea too. Ecume de mer — is

that to be the emblem of our friendship
?"

Honor turned away. Valentine was
laughing again in that strange, mocking
sort of way, which had already grated
more than once upon her ears. There
was certainly something rather tuneless
about her, but no doubt that would
vanish when they knew each other better.
Meanwhile, it was perhaps as much
Honor's fault as Valentine's, if they were
not quite in tune at first. At least, so
thought the honest, simple-minded, English
girl.

At this moment the door opened
suddenly, and Gladys came rushing in.

Oh, Honor — Honor, what a long
petit moment you have been ! Are we
never going home ?" There was no lack
of music about the child. She was a
tune herself, a little tune all played in
the treble, and with no bass notes at allas
yet.

The bass notes followed on the lips of
Madame Pl^on.

'' I come to say," said that instrument,
in its deep vibrating tones, " that Madame

la Comtesse de M , having witnessed

the heroic conduct of Mademoiselle
Anglaise in the sea this morning, begs
to have the honour of offering her carriage
to take her and Mademoiselle la
jpresque-noye home."

Oh ! no — no," cried Honor. " I am
quite well now, quite able to walk home,
and come," she said, turning to Valentine,
" are you not better also, and will
you not walk up with Gladys and me?"

And so the trio started, and their friendship,
doomed also to prove so fatal, was
thus begun.

CHAPTER XII.

A CALENDAR OF FEASTS.

It is a pleasure indeed to converse with this girl :

oh, rare gift !
Rare felicity, this ! She can talk in a rational way,

can
Speak upon subjects that really are makers of mind

and of thinking
Yet in perfection retain her simplicity."

A. H. CLOUGH.

although Honor had proposed
with eager politeness that Miss
Murray should accompany her
home, she was not a Httle nervous as to
the manner in which her father would
be likely to receive an unexpected guest
at his dinner-table. Such a thing had
never happened before. Hospitality after

a certain kind, the Yicar indeed practised,
that is, towards the curates and
schoolmistress of the parish, in the
matter of teas, and also towards various
beetle-browed professors, old cronies of
his own, whose suppers taxed Honor's
powers of ingenuity. But to the chance
of *' entertaining angels unawares," Mr.
Carmichael had never given a thought.

Honor, accordingly, was not a little
alarmed at her own audacity in making
such an experiment.

*' I am afraid papa will be late," she
said, trying to prepare her friend's mind
for a possible rebuff. "He is a very
learned man, and is just now engaged
in compiling a dictionary of dead
languages, which occupies his thoughts
a good deal. I believe his name is
well known among savants in every country
in Europe."

Miss Murray expressed the pleasure it
would give her to make the acquaintance

of so distinguished a person.
Her curiosity, at any rate, was excited.


I shall feel frightened," she said.
I have never known any one so wonderfully
clever." Which was true. The
specimens of the nobler sex she had
hitherto encountered, had certainly not
been of the book worm order.

All this flattering fear and pretty
preparation, however, was wasted. Mr.
Carmichael came in at last, but scarcely
took any notice of his daughter's friend.
He did not even seem surprised to see
her, which was, to Miss Murray, perhaps
the cruellest cut of all. The fact
was, he was never surprised at anything.
His mind being always so full, it could
seldom manage to take in a single extra
impression ; and if Honor had invited a
party of matelotes to dinner, or Gladys
had brought home a menagerie of monkeys,
he would, I think, have helped them

all round to soup, and then quietly subsided
into his book.

Which was exactly what he did on the
present occasion.

He came in hurriedly, with his book
under his arm (a bilious-looking, 
customer it was, this time) ;
listened to Honors story in his usual
breathless, inattentive sort of way, praised
the girl's conduct in words few and
common enough, in all truth, but which
made her cheeks glow again ; shook hands
with Miss Murray, and then, sitting
down to the table, had probably forgotten
all about the matter before he had finished
saying grace.

Dinners were always rather a solemn
function chez la famille Carmichael, as
Rosaline, in her capacity of parlour-maid
which she assumed when her duties as
cook were completed, used invariably to
observe. And to-day, owing probably to
the presence of a stranger-guest, that

YOL. I. E

meal proceeded even more silently. It
was a sunny, sleepy afternoon. The
persiennes were closed, but through their
cracks a few lines of light came filtering
and flickering over the shining floor
and the white spread table.

The street was quiet. Every now
and then the horses on the cab-stand
opposite would fidget a little, and hit
their iron-hoofs against the hot stone
pavement ; or their cockers would yawn
uneasily, and flip their whips, and discourse
to one another in a language
composed apparently of nothing else but
vas. and ses. ; or a matelote^s song of
sauterelles would be uplifted shrilly, and
die away into silence ; or a child would
cry, or a dog would bark, but other and
more exhilarating sounds there were none
without. And within, there was only a
languid buzzing of flies, and a gentle
murmur of knives and plates, and the
frolement of Rosaline's gown against the

floor, as she brought in her flats one by
one.

Miss Murray seemed to find this silence
rather irksome. It was her knife and
fork that discoursed most frequently,
and if she could have made the flies buzz
a little louder, I think she would have
done so — anything to break the monotony
of the feast. It was so dreadful
to see that formidable old man readings
away at the end of the table. If he
was so clever, why did not he say
something ? She wanted him to speak to
her, or at any rate to look at her. But
he might as well have been deaf and
dumb, and blind into the bargain, for all
the notice he had taken of her.

She hazarded a remark at last. It was
about the fricandeau, and she followed it
up by sundry interesting observations
concerning the cookery of various nations,
to which Honor replied to the best of
her ability. Gladys paid her the complain

2

ment of staring at her while she spoke,
and Rosaline stopped short in her perambulations
round the table, to listen with
evident relish to a description she was
giving of the mode of feeding common
to a certain Gras von Reichenau, who
seemed to be a friend of her father.

Raw ham, you know, and then blue
trout and pink cabbage, mixed together,
and all shoved down with a knife." But
Mr. Carmichael took no notice of her witty
remarks. Dinners and diners were
evidently not in his line.

She must try some other subject.

What a beautiful day it is," she
began, conversationally, after a pause.
Have you been for a walk, Mr. Carmichael?"


Complete silence on the part of everybody.
Mr. Carmichael takes no more
notice of the clear silvery tones addressing
him, than he does of the flies buzzing
on the window-pane. A fact probably

more gratifying to the flies than to Miss
Murray.

She repeats her remark, with the
same result. Gladys begins to giggle a
little. Honor interposes.

'* I am afraid papa does not hear you,"
she says softly. " He is always so much
engrossed with his book. Will you have
some more oeufs a la neige ? It is one
of Rosaline's famous dishes. I should
think even your German friend would
appreciate it."

Honor spoke apologetically, but she
did not attempt to rouse her father from
his studies. She continued her conversation
with Valentine, however, chiefly
upon culinary matters, and in a spasmodic
sort of way, till finally it languished and
faded away. Gladys, whose tongue
usually wagged freely enough, sat mute
and motionless as a china image.

You are just like a china mandarin
I once saw in a tea-shop," said Miss

Murray, still pursuing her idea of being
funny, even if it were only in the infantile
department. *' It wagged its old head,
and put out its old tongue, and made
just about as many remarks as ycu have
done. How would you like to be setup
in a window to be looked at, little
Gladys?"

Little Gladys, who scarcely understood
what was being said to her, pursed up
her mouth as if scoring down the insult
to be answered at some future time ; and
then opening it again, contented herself
with lolling out her tongue in the suggested
fashion. But she said nothing.
Valentine was baffled once more.

She was baffled merely, not beaten.
In fact she was even at that moment
preparing for another attack. It was
clear that weather was no more within
Mr. Carmichael's beat than cooking
had been ; indeed it was foolish of
her to have wasted a second of time or

thought on the matter. Had not Honor
warned her that her father never discussed
such things ? She must try something
different, and try it in a different
way.

Is that German you are reading ?"
she asked suddenly, just as Mr. Carmichael
began to turn over a fresh page
of his strangely-lettered book. It was
a good opportunity, and she seized it.

Mr. Carmichael looked up slowly from
under his grave bent brows. Miss Murray's
voice was a clear ringing one, and
she had certainly spoken in season. By
the bye, what gift in the world is there
equal to this one of " speech in season?"
otherwise called " choosing your opportunity."
It is better than any amount of
learning, or power, inasmuch as it is the
pendulum of power, the balance of genius.
It has in fact, an alchemical force of its
own, and has been known to endue a
fool with the appearance of wisdom, a

coward with the name of hero, an
abandoned sinner with all the attributes
of saintship ; whereas impulses and instincts,
however generous and true, often
only mislead and betray their possessor.
But this is only par parentheses, as it
were, and to draw attention to one of
Miss Murray's most admirable qualities.

This is a Greek book," said Mr. Carmichael,
surveying her slowly, while the
unturned page hovered for a moment between
his finger and thumb.

Miss Murray gave a little gasp. She
seemed to be suddenly filled with that
breathless, boundless admiration which
Moliere's " Femmes Savantes " entertained
towards a man who knew " du grec, ma
soeur.'*^

It is a short history of St. Gregory
the Illuminator, and a tolerably complete
one ; I borrowed it from the library here,"
continued Mr. Carmichael, still looking at
her. It was very surprising, certainly, that

any one should take an interest in ibis
studies ; but then there was no end to the
marvels daily occurring at Pierreport ?

St. Gregory the Illuminator was the
founder of the Armenian Church," he went
on, dropping of£ his items of information
like pearls from a chaplet, " and the
Armenian Church is an offshoot of the
Greek Church, which, as you are aware,
is the established Church of Russia."

Whether Miss Murray was aware of this
theological fact, or not, is doubtful. But it
did not matter, she had got her clue.
That was all she wanted.

The ceremonies of the Russian Church
are very interesting," she said presently,
as if she too were making an original and
instructive remark.

Have you ever been in Russia ?" asked
Mr. Carmichael, suddenly interested.

No, but I have known a great many
Russians," answered Valentine, promptly.

Ah !" says Mr. Carmichael, in a tone

of satisfaction. *' And may I ask whether,
from personal intercourse with them, you
formed an impression that they will bethe
coming race with regard to literature,
as well as politically the future rulers of
the world ?"

They are certainly a wonderful people,"
replies Valentine, ready for any
emergency, though a little bewildered by
the political and aesthetic problem thus
suddenly put before her. " There was a
very clever Russian family we once
met "

Mr. Carmichael disposed himself to
listen. The page fell back unturned.

But Miss Murray's clever Russians
were only skilled in the matter of modern
languages (a matter beneath the contempt
of a learned man), and as the story had a
tendency to drift towards Homburg, Mr.
Carmichael forsook it on its road thither,
turned over his page at last, and resumed
his reading very contentedly.

Dinner was concluded by this time.

'' I am afraid your father does not like
me, dear," said Valentine to Honor, as
they passed into the salon together. It
was her nature to be rendered uneasy by
the presence of a single crumpled leaf in
her bed of roses.

Oh, you must not think that," said
Honor, quickly. " As I told you before,
papa seldom speaks. He thinks too much
to talk much. But I am sure he will like
you when he knows you better. Everybody
must do so."

And strange to say, Honor's prognostications
on this point were correct.

That same evening at tea-time — (I am
sorry to have to introduce you to another
eating-scene, but the hours in English
households are usually marked by repasts.
It is a daily calendar of feasts — breakfast
o'clock, dinner o'clock, &c., the time between
being computed to or from these
epochs) — at tea o'clock then that evening,

before he began to read, Mr. Carmichael
remarked : —

That was a nice intelligent girl you
brought home to-day, Honor. Above the
average I should say."

I don't like her," said Gladys briskly,
shaking her little golden head. The child
had been full of the visit they had all just
paid to Madame Pleon, in her cottage beyond
Mont St. Michel, and of the clock
she had seen there, and the piece of
charred wood which had fallen on Monsieur
Pleon's head and killed him, and all
the rest of the wonders. Her tongue
had gone on chattering in one unceasing
stream, making up apparently for its
silence at dinner time; but she stopped
short now, and looking full at her father
with her keen brown eyes, she repeated —
'' I don't like her at all, and I don't
think Madame Pleon does either."

PULLING DOWN THE Hedge''

Love thy neighbour, yet pull not down thy hedge."

GEORGE HERBERT.

F Honor had been disposed at
first to pity her friend's sad lot,
and, indeed, had been chiefly
drawn towards her out of a feeling of compassion
for her lonely condition, as described
by herself, she soon found reason
to alter her opinion in that respect. Valentine
to be pitied? No, indeed — envied
rather. Honor thought. She was so
bright, and beautiful, and clever. She
could do what she liked all day long, and

as old Mademoiselle Madelon, her dame de
coynjmgnie, managed their menage, she had
no household cares to trouble her head,
such as sometimes puckered the pretty
brow of our Honor. She laid herself
out to amuse others, which was a
laudable away of amusing herself. It was
pleasant to be in her company, and the
Carmichaels soon enjoyed that privilege
pretty often. In fact, they were all delighted
with her.

Even Mr. Carmichael. He did not seem
to take much notice of her, but he talked
to her a good deal in his slow dreamy
way. He lent her one of his books to read,
which astonished Honor very much. He
even ventured one day to admire her singing
— he, the Vicar of St. Mark's, whose
former opinion concerning music was that
it was ** no worse than any other noise,"
and who could with difficulty be persuaded
to buy new chant-books for his choir, now
found himself waxing eloquent on the subject

of Miss Murray's singing, comparing
it to " poetry set on fire, and words floating
on the wings of melody," and other
graceful and poetical metaphors. Valentine
was highly flattered by all this
homage, though she did not understand
one word of the book he lent her, and only
about half of the learned man's conversation.


Your father's remarks are very improving,"
she would say, smothering an
embryo yawn by turning it into a laugh.
But do not you ever see anyone
more amusing — more of your own age, I
mean ?"

We don't know anyone here," replies
Honor, demurely. " Papa does not wish
us to make acquaintance with any one.
He says it is not safe in these continental
towns."

Valentine glanced up at her quickly,
and then smothered a laugh (rather a
shrill, sharp one), by turning it into a

yawn. " Heigh-ho !" she said, and went
back to her singing.

Sometimes afterwards, when Honor
looked back on this part of her life, she
used to wonder how at that time she
could have had any thought or affection
to spare for Valentine. Had not
Stephen absorbed them all ? And was he
not coming soon to claim them? How
then could there be room for any one
else in her heart ? She used to worry herself
greatly about this. She fancied she
had been disloyal to Stephen, and had
given away to another that which belonged
by right to him. But I think she
was wrong. I think her present instincts
were better than her after thoughts. For
Love is a thing that can never be spent,
and the more one gives, the more one
has to give ; and the more one takes,
perhaps, the more one wants.

And so Honor and Valentine became
great friends, and their friendship gave

them much mutual satisfaction, although
Honor could not help feeling at times
that Valentine was not always quite in
tune with her, as it were, and Valentine
knew very well that her friend's way of
life was different from her own.

Perhaps that is why I like hearing
about it so much," said Honor, one day,
when Valentine had been expatiating upon
the difference between her own vagabond
life, and Honor's caged life, as she called
it. '' It seems to me just like a story."

And so it was, a very pretty story ; but
not altogether a good one, I think. And
if our Honor could have heard it right
through, from the beginning, or if she
could have peeped on to the end, as one
can do in a printed book, I think she
would not have been quite so eager about
turning over the pages.

As it was, however, she was deeply
interested. It seemed to her a quaint,
unusual, poetical sort of life, this gipsy

VOL. I. s

life of Valentine's. It was, at any rate,
very unlike lier own, which had been
always spent amid the same brick and
mortar landscapes.

But Valentine's life seemed to have been
full of varying pictures, and beautiful dissolving
views ; each one prettier than
the last. She had no Gladys, that was
true. Honor pitied her for that. But
then everybody could not possess a
Griadys. There would be too many little
girls in the world, if that were the case.

Valentine was not so absolutely alone
as Honor had at first imagined. She had
her dame de compagnie, Mademoiselle
Madelon, a funny, little, nut-cracker faced
old woman, who wore mittens, and a
black lace veil round her head, and
gossipped a great deal with Madame Pul-lot,
the landlady, and who was not an
amusing companion for Valentine, certainly
; but there might be worse — Madame
Pulliot herself, for instance. And then

there was her father, who was always
coming and going (it was rather unkind
of him to leave her so often), and someone
else in the background. Honor
could not understand the half-mocking,
half-pitying tone in which Valentine
sometimes spoke of herself. She thought
her friend's lot by no means a bad one.
I suppose we all of us draw pictures of
each other's conditions and characters,
according to our own artistic perceptions
and experiences ; and we should, no doubt,
be not a little astonished were these
friendly portraits to be suddenly set before
us. On the whole, however, I fancy
they are usually about as true to the
original as those painted by ourselves, of
ourselves.

And so these two went on corrupting
and chattering away happily together, and
exchanging their simple little confidences,
and pulling down their hedges one by one.
It was very foolish of them ; but it was

s 2

what every woman], worthy of the name
of woman, does once at least in the
course of her life. *' Walk in, dear
friend," she says, in the trusting generosity
of her heart. '' See, I have made
the way clear for you. Come into my
fields ; pluck my daisies and buttercups ;
wear my jewels if they suit you ; peep in
at the skeleton hanging up in my cupboard
— nay— do not refuse me ; take the
latch-key — come whenever you can."

Thus says she, pulling down her hedges,
one by one, and looking rather hot over
the work of demolition.

And then, by-and-by, there is robbery.
The jewel-case is stolen, perhaps, or the
skeleton is dragged into the light of
day. And who could have done this thing
save she for whom the hedges were
thrown down, and the secret winding
ways shown and explained ? Believe me,
over much trust in human nature always
breeds a thief. And the worst of it is,

that the hedges once pulled down can
never be replaced, except by a stone wall,
high and cold and impassable.

But women when they are pulling down
their hedges, never think of the walls.
Honor certainly did not ; but went on
pulling down her hedges, and laying bare
her land for her friend's inspection.
There was one hedge, however, she did
not touch. It was Stephen's hedge, of
course, and she could not be expected to
pull down that. And yet as she had
destroyed so many, it was almost a
pity perhaps she should leave one
standing.

As for Valentine, she made a great
show of pulling down her hedges, and
believed she had done so quite satisfactorily.
Honor thought so too. But, in
truth, she had only removed a stick here
and there, and pulled down a twig or
two, so that on the whole her hedges
were rather more intricate when she

left off, than they would have been
had she never touched them.

Honor's life lay stretched out before
her, like a water-colour landscape, faint
indeed, but clear, in which St. Mark's
Road, and the Church, and the
Vicarage, together with Miss Pincock
and Mr, Wynch, all stood in proper
perspective and due proportions. Even
the figure of a certain Stephen Aylmer
was visible in the same light, and Valentine,
had she been so disposed, might, no
doubt, have elicited a more tangible representation
of that rather misty personage.
But she did not seem to care. She was
perfectly satisfied with the outline presented
to ber.

Of Valentine's life, however, Honor
had but few pictures, except those which,
as I said, she painted for herself. These
were, for the most part, blurred, indistinct
sort of things, as Honor knew well
enough. She thought it was her own

fault, lier own want of skill, and slowness
of apprehension. But it wasn't : it was
the fault of the sitter. She was perpetually
jumping about from one thing to
another, and then back again. Honor
found it hard work, trying to follow her,
and when, after a forced march, she
arrived breathless and panting at any
given spot, Valentine would dart off once
more like a fire-fly in a field of maize.
It was very charming of her, no doubt,
very clever and quick ; but it was
sometimes a little confusing to her
friend.

Are you really engaged to that Gras
von Reichenau ?" asked Honor, one day,
after Valentine had been giving an extremely
ingenious and ridiculous representation
of that uncouth personage's words
and ways. It was very wicked of her;
but whenever Valentine talked like that,
she could not help thinking of poor Mr.
Wynch at home. " You are always

laughing at him, you cannot really be
engaged."

Mais oiii,'^ replied Valentine, with a
tragic smile. She was sitting on the
window-sill, swinging her feet. '' We are
betrothed — helps ! "

But why — why did you do it ? "
''/did not do it, ma chere,'^ responded
Valentine, with great solemnity. " My
father did it. We met Grraf von
Reichenau accidentally at Marseilles in the
spring of this year. Our families had
been previously acquainted, through an
elder brother, I think, who has been dead
many years. Gras Otto is in possession
of the family estates. They he near
Frankfort, and are very fine, I am told.
My father made the arrangement at
once. Fathers do all these things here,
you know. It is very convenient, and
saves one a good deal of trouble. Why
does not your father find a beau jeune
homme for you, Honor ? "

Honor coloured all over, from the roots
of lier hair to the tips of her fingers. But
Valentine's eyes were straying far away
down the dingy lane, and over the
red-roofed town, to where the sea in its
blueness was swelling and swaying, backwards
and forwards, to the music of
the waves. So neither saw the other's
face.

It saves one trouble, but it also gives
one trouble," continued Valentine, pensively,
leaning her head against the
window frame. " Love must always be a
trouble, whether one has it, or whether
one is without it. Not that I have ever
had any to know — oh. Honor, Honor, I
wish I had !" And then this strange
impetuous girl jumped down from her
window-seat, and flung herself on her
knees down by Honor's side, and kissed
her hands, and laid her head on her lap,
and cried a little, and then laughed afterwards
at herself, for crying.

She was always so : a hundred tidings
in a hundred seconds; mocking, tender,
reckless, defiant, one by one ; but enigmatical
always.

Honor soothed her as best she could.
She did not understand ; but understanding
is not necessary to sympathy, whatever
it may be to forgiveness. She always
felt a little twinge of self-reproach when
Valentine talked in this fashion. She
could never have been so outspoken
herself. Valentine would talk openly
of her absent lover, but Honor never
breathed a suspicion that she possessed
such an article. She was frank and
generous enough, in other matters; but
there are some hedges which the most
confiding souls refuse to pull down, and
Honor felt that this was one of them.

THE LIVRE Heures.

''' For God above
Is great to grant as mighty to make :
And creates the love to reward the love."

Robert BROWNING.

HE house in which the Murray
lived was a new one, so far as
walls and floors went, but the
furniture within was of undoubted and
indisputable antiquity. How many generations
had sat upon those spindle-legged,
creaking chairs, and looked at themselves
in those blotchy smoke-dried mirrors, it
was impossible to say, but they had all

been conveyed thither, the protesting
chairs, and the rest of the long-suffering
furniture, I mean, of course, by Madame
PulHot, a wealthy widow, who owned
several houses en ville, and who had added
this one o la campagne to her list as a
speculation.

Madame Pulliot used to say it was a
special interposition of Providence which
provided her with the idea of transporting
her old meubles (it is curious what
strange forms and shapes latter-day
miracles seem to take, according to some
folks,) from No. 1, Place Imperialee to
No. 4, Avenue Mont St. Michel. No. 1,
Place Imperialee was fitted up with miles
of stamped red velvet, and acres of
looking-glasses with gilt borders. It
was very hot, and dusty, and glaring. It
commanded a good view of the sea and
the adjacent bathing-machines, and was
constantly perfumed by fishy smells from
the neighbouring port. The moment it

was ready for visitors it was engaged by
a charming family from Glasgow. Well-thought
of ? je crois Men. And rich ? But
so rich, they might pave a passage under
the sea from France to England with gold
and silver, and not feel the want of it.
This charming family occupied Madame
Pulliot's splendid appartement the whole
summer, and went away rather suddenly
in the autumn, the firm of Mace. &
Mac, of Glasgow, having failed, and
the red velvet and gilding (both of which
were not a little worn) remaining unpaid
for to this very day. Truly, it seems sometimes
as if some other agency besides
Providence had to do with these miracles
after all.

Madame Pulliot came up to her little
maison de campagne, during the summer
months, for change of air, and also to
look after her property, as she would
say with a knowing wink. She seldom
went to look after her property in the

Place Imperialee, but then the MacB.'s
had paid a small sum on entering, and
engaged to pay a very large one on
leaving the house ; whereas, MM, les locataires
of No. 4, Avenue Mont St. Michel
(the Murray were the sole locataires of
the tiny house, Madame Pulliot herself
occupying state apartments in it) had
only agreed to pay their rent weekly,
and had managed to do so hitherto, in a
praiseworthy, if spasmodic, sort of way.
There was a small sum owing now, which
gave Madame Pulliot an immense feeling
of injured dignity and angelic endurance,
and furnished forth the didactic part of
many of her conversations with Mademoiselle
Madelon.

Madame la Proprietary and Mademoiselle
la dame de compagnie were very good
friends. It was, perhaps, rather a case
of faute de mieux, at least, on Mademoiselle
Madelon's side, as the little dane de
compagnie, with a deep-drawn sigh, used

to own to herself and her mittens. She
had been accustomed to such much better
society, until — until an unfortunate dullness
of hearing had come over her. But
she never sighed in Madame Pulliot's
presence ; it was delightful to see the
two old heads waggling close together,
and the two generous souls exchanging
delicate courtesies in the matter of coffee
and gossip.

In this manner, Madame Pulliot had
confided to her friend the whole history
of her life. How she had been born
the daughter of a small epicier in the
town, and at an early age had become
the wife of his partner. How both men
had an aptitude for saving, but in such
a strange confused way, (" they would
spend a louis to save a franc, ma
chere,'^) that on various occasions they
were brought to the brink of ruin,
from which they were dragged back by
her consummate talents alone. How,

after the death of both, (she seemed
to have regarded them somehow in the
light of twin husbands, and, in truth,
the husband was scarcely a year younger
than the father, and died only eight
months after him,) she had caused their
affairs so to prosper, under her single-handed
guidance, that she might — being
still not bad-looking, and a veuve — which
some men like — and wealthy — which all

suitors approve — some day, perhaps

The story of our lives, when written by
ourselves, is always profoundly interesting
— to ourselves.

Mademoiselle Madelon's story was of a
less sensational order. A little, quiet,
drab-faced woman, not clever enough to
be a governess, nor pretty enough fora
demoiselle de magasin, nor devote enough
for a religieuse ; she had drifted naturally
into the rank of dame de compagnie, the
narrative of whose various situations
sounded very dull and tame after Madame

PuUiot's more exciting and romantic
autobiography. It was necessary, therefore,
to import a few stirring adventures
out of her employers' histories, in order
to give brilliancy to her own. And this
Mademoiselle Madelon did, though not
so liberally as Madame Pulliot could have
wished.

Les affaires de Monsieur voice Colonel
are keeping him away a long time," remarked
Madame la Proprietary to mademoiselle
la dame de compagnie, one fine
morning. Madame Pulliot was possessed
of a sharp shrill voice, which it was a
pleasure to listen to : at least so thought
poor Mademoiselle Madelon, who, when
most people spoke, heard little else excepta
sound as of wind in her ear. For her
personal appearance, Madame Pulliot was
round and fat, and not at all like a
heroine. She had a wrinkled shining
face, like a last year's apple, and a pair
of bright black eyes that twinkled at

VOL. I. T

you like beads. She affected much magnificence
in her dress, and wore a
photographic portrait of the two deceased
Spiders on each of her arms. Valentine
detested her and her bangles almost
as much as she detested Madame
Pleon.

Oui, oid,'^ nodded Mademoiselle macedon.
" Monsieur is absent a long time
because he has gone a long way. He
has gone to visit the future home of
Mademoiselle sa fille, and to make
arrangements about the marriage."

Avec ce gros jargon d'Allemand V inquired
Madame Pulliot. She had heard
it all before, but there are two subjects
one is never tired of discussing; one's
own good fame, and one's neighbour's ill
name.

Mademoiselle Madelon nodded again.
She was no recluse, not she, and she
liked to jasper as well as anyone, but there
were limits to all conversation. Madame

PuUiot had not hitherto been much accustomed
to good society.

Je n'aime pas les Allemands, mois'
continued Madame Pulliot, consciously
or unconsciously impenetrable ; " mais,
mafoi,l am sorry for tilsit jeune Homme,
Is the marriage to be soon, chere
amie T^

Je n^en sais rien,^* replied Mademoiselle
Madelon, pursing up her lips. Madame
Pulliot was certainly over-stepping
the limits of polite conversation now, and
it was only friendly to bar further outbreaks
of ignorance by a stone wall of
dignity. Besides, when one is in possession
of anything coveted by some one
else, one likes to dispose of it in one's
own way, and at one's own time.

Will the marriage take place from
this house ?" asked Madame Pulliot,
again. The question was one of personal
interest to her ; and she was meditating
whether the red velvet sofas from the

T 2

Place Imperial miglib be hired out for
the occasion, and how much she could
make M. le Colonel pay for them.

But Mademoiselle Madelon replied
again,

'' Je n' en sais rien, Madame.^^ She was
certainly not well-bred, cette pauvre Pulliot.

"It will neither be here, nor there
nor anywhere else," cried Madame Pulliot
irritated beyond the power of profiting by
her companion's genteel example. *' Je
les connais Men, moi, ces gens la ; and you
will do so, some day, my poor friend —
when it is too late, perhaps ; and then
maybe you will regret never having a word
to fling to your faithful Pauline Pulliot.
Mais tenez, voila la fille du Ministre Anglais,
who comes to visit your demoiselle, Bon-jour,
Mademoiselle, your friend awaits you
with impatience," (this is addressed with
great politeness to Honor, who passes by,
smiling at the two old women hobnobbing
together at the garden-gate.)

It astonished me somewhat how a
demoiselle si doux as that one is apparemment,
can be friends with your petite
ogresse. 'No doubt, however, it is well it
should be so. The good must be mixed
with the bad, the wheat with the chaff,
else the world would be a far worse
place than it is, and you and I, chere amie,
might never have been bound together by
the cords of so tender a friendship."

With which parting philosophic, and
poetic shot, the wheat and chaff in question
parted suddenly, as if blown asunder by
a breath of cold wind.

Meanwhile Honor had found Valentine
awaiting her with impatience no doubt,
but for the time smothering her feelings
by burying her head in the depths of a
small cow-skin covered trunk. She was
so engrossed by this occupation, that she
did not hear her friend enter.

What are you doing ?" cried Honor,

looking round with an amused glance.
And indeed she might well ask.

The whole place was strewn with a
variety of miscellaneous articles, bonnets
and boots, dresses of an antique shape
and faded grace, all the paraphernalia of
a lady's toilet, even a child's toy or two,
scattered here and there, and all lying
together and sticking to one another in
the most lover-like manner possible, till
it seemed as if the contents of a (limited)
co-operative store had been emptied out
upon the floor. And there, in the corner,
knelt Valentine with her head in the box,
like a cat in a cream jug.

Are you preparing for a sudden departure
?" asked Honor, ruthlessly trying
to separate a silk apron from an india-rubber
shoe, which from their venerable
appearance and unwillingness to sever,
seemed to have been partners for years.
It reminds me of a sketch of a picture,
to be called the ' Flight of the Israelites,'

which Stephen , which a friend of

ours once made, and showed me. He
would have been quite delighted with this
scene."

The cat in the cream-jug looked
up.

'' I am afraid we are rather like the
Israelites sometimes, and do spoil the
Egyptians," she said, wincing a little.
'* But we are not going away just yet.
Do you wish we were. Honor?"

Honor shook her head, and laughed*
And then the natural answer, and ordinary
greetings took place between the
girls. 'you have grown to like Pierre-port
pretty well, after all," says Honor.

Valentine owned that she had done
so. " It will always seem like a sort of
home to me," she said with a sigh.
There was something very touching in
this young vagabond's vague, undefined
idea of a home.

Do you always travel about with all

this baggage ?" said Honor, looking round
again and laughing.

Oh dear no !" said Valentine, with
one of her sudden changes of voice
and manner. '* We generally travel about
with a tooth-brush apiece, and leave our
boxes behind us to be picked up next
time we pass that way. This one must
have been left here some years ago, and
my father found it at the Custom-house,
and told me to open it, and see if there
happened to be anything in it worth
having. But I have not come upon much
yet except baby-clothes."

She had knelt down before the box once
more, and was laughing as she pulled out
the little frocks, pink and blue and lilac
cotton, common enough, but neatly made,
as if by a mother's fingers.

Were they yours?" asked Honor, to
whom the sight of little garments always
appealed tenderly.

I suppose so — I don't remember,"

answered Yalentine carelessly. " Ha —
what's this?"

This," was a little well-worn livre
heures ; bound in faded purple velvet,
with a tarnished silver clasp, and the
name, " Edmee" engraved on the clasp.

What a dear little book !" cried
Honor, as Valentine held it up. "To
whom did that belong ?"

I do not know," said Valentine,
absently. She was looking at the name
on the clasp, and trying to recall something
that came looming towards her,
vaguely and dimly through the mist of
years — as one tries to make out the
outline of a church tower through a
London fog.

Who was Edmee ?" asked Honor.
Was it your mother's name ?"

No — my mother's name was Arlotte.
I know that much, or rather that little.
My father never speaks of her, and all I
know is that she came from Provence,

and had some property there, which was
sold at her death. T wish it had not been
sold !"

I suppose he loved her so much, he
could not live there without her, and
cannot bear to speak of her," said Honor
with unconscious satire. She remembered
how her father had mourned the loss of
his wife, and, consciously or unconsciously,
most of our views of the outer world are
drawn from home pictures ; at any rate
when one is still young and a tyro at the
art. " Do you not know who Edmee
was ?" asked Honor again.

'' Not I," returned Valentine, running
back to her old laughing way. " Some
penurious old frump, I should say, who
wore out everything to its last stitch
before buying another. Why are you so
much interested in the matter, Honor ?"
she asked, laying the book down on the
table.

*' I do not know," replied Honor,

growing dreamy in lier turn. " Only it
seems so sad to have lived and loved
once, and been loved too, perhaps, in
return, and after that to be buried away
for ever so long ; and then by-and-by to
wake up again, and find that the world
has forgotten one altogether — even one's
name. Like the book, you know."

"About the book, I do not know,"
said Valentine, laughing still, but sighing
a little at the same time. " But I think
it must be better to have been loved once,,
even if one is buried for good and all
afterwards, than never to be loved at all."

"Oh, but that could never be," cried
Honor quickly. " Being loved, is surely
the same thing as loving. I mean, if one
has the power of loving, as most of us
have, one is certain also to get the gift
of being loved."

I hope you may find it so, ma chere,^^
returned Valentine, in her most sarcastic,
worldly wise way.

'* I am sure I shall," said Honor, lifting
up her sweet lucid eyes. " Not perhaps
always in exactly the same way, or in
equal proportion, but sooner or later, in
some way or other, I am certain, Love's
seed must bear Love's flower."

TWO ARRIVALS.

A little while a little love
The hour yet bears for thee and me,
Who have not drawn the veil to see
If yet our heaven be lit above."

DANTE G. ROSSETTI.

speech of Honor's
sat for a while

m

After that
the girls
silence.

It was a lovely fresh morning. The
sea danced to and fro, like a child at play.
The earth was its mother, looking on and
smiling. The sun laughed like a great,
glad god, and did his best to make others
laugh too. He was not an idle god either.

for he had already swept the sky clear
of cobwebs, and was now warming the
air with his breath, and flinging down
his jests upon the sea, in a stream
of broken beams. Far away, over there,
sky, and sea, and air seemed to meet and
mingle together, and resolve themselves,
as it were, into a three-fold chord ; but
here, close at hand, they were as single
notes, vibrating separately, but each in
answer to " the dominant's persistence,"
good things in themselves, and glad,
but gladder still, by the power of the
sun.

There is the English steamer coming
in," said Valentine, who was sitting, as
usual, in her favourite window-seat, *' I
wonder if it has brought anything, or
anyone, for either of us."

It was a very harmless speculation,
wasn't it ? Nevertheless Honor blushed
furiously as she heard it. She was sitting
at the table, mending her friend's gloves ;

for, notwithstanding her vague desires fora
home-life, Valentine Murray was entirely
destitute of any idea of home ways and
home duties. In the earlier days of their
friendship. Honor had tried to instruct her
in the mysteries of the needle. But
Valentine had proved unteachable. She
could learn best by watching, she said;
and Honor, good, painstaking Honor, had
given her what instructions she could in
that manner. She moved away suddenly
now from her seat facing the light to the
further end of the room, under pretext of
getting some more silk.

Perhaps your father will come by that
boat," she said, forcing her lips to speak.
She was so angry with herself for
blushing.

'' Not my father," said Valentine,
watching her friend's face rather than her
hands this time. She was not much given
to observation as a rule, but she could
not help seeing that something had stirred

and moved that usually calm, still, undemonstrative
Honor. She made no
remark, however, but went on with her
own subject. " My father is not coming
from England, but from Germany — from
somewhere near Frankfort, I believe, in
which favoured district the Castle of
Reichenau is situated. Do you know
those parts ? No ? Well, perhaps you
will do so comedy. Perhaps you will
honour with a visit some friends of
yours who may happen to be living
there."

'' 1 think you had better honour us with
a visit in London, first," said Honor, impulsively.
And the moment after she was
sorry she had given the invitation. What
would her father say ? What would little
Gladys say? What would Mr. Wynch
and Miss Pincock, and various other
parishioners say, to this strange, foreign,
gipsy sort of girl she was proposing to
introduce among them?

The gipsy, however, accepted the
invitation, quite gravely.

I should like to go to England very
much," she said, "I have never been
there. My father says the air does not
suit him."

It was really a pity there was no one
present to understand the unconscious
sarcasm of this speech. Valentine, might
have had a dim inkling as to her own
meaning. Honor had none. She came
back to her seat by the table, quite*
calmly and quietly, but without the silk
she had been to fetch.

Valentine resumed her attentive contemplation
of the dingy lane, and the
little town glistening in the hollow, and
the sea shining like the sky beyond.
Honor was no longer so interesting to
watch.

Suddenly she exclaimed —

Someone has arrived after all, though.
I hear a sound ! — I see a form ! — a man !

VOL. I. U

my father ? Yes, it is my father. I
must go down and prepare his mind for
an interview with his daughter's preserver."
And she jumped down from
her perch, and ran away.

The greeting between father and
daughter was not, however, a lengthy process.
Almost immediately after Valentine's
departure, the pair entered the
salon together, and Colonel Murray was
presented to Honor.

She recognised him at once as the elder
of the two gentlemen who had been
walking in the lane that morning when
she had strolled into it, unawares, with
Gladys; and even had she not done so,
she would have known him anywhere from
his strange likeness to Valentine. They
had the same great grey eyes, and handsome,
clear-cut features, straight brows,
and curling lips,— even the same chins,
peaked and pointed, '' hard and bright."
Honor had never noticed Valentine's chin

before, but sbe looked at it now, and then
back at her father's. It was one of those
straight hard chins, such as sometimes
appear to belong to the musician type of
face, and are always indicative of a determined,
pitiless, cruel character on the
part of the possessor. Honor, however,
was not learned in Latter, and had probably
never heard of Austin Imperator,
so the likeness between the chins struck
her merely as a curious link between the
father and daughter.

Their voices were alike, too ; many-toned,
and wide of compass. They were
like many-stringed instruments, capable of
playing any kind of tune. The tune
Colonel Murray was playing now was a
psalm, deep and full, with a grand bass
like a rolling wave.

I am so rejoiced to think that my
daughter should have found such kind
friends during my absence," he said ; and
then he sat down by Honor's side,

u 2

and asked her about her home and
family, and thanked her again for the
service she had rendered to him and his
daughter.

Being thanked is, perhaps, a pleasant
process to some folks ; but Honor did not
like it, and never knew what to say in
return. She did not like Colonel Murray
either, and wished he would talk to his
daughter instead of to her. It might
be more polite to talk to her, but it
seemed rather unnatural. She tried to
picture to herself how her own father
would have acted under the circumstances.

It was difficult, for Mr. Carmichael
hardly ever left home, and Honor had
never been separated from him for more
than a few hours each day. But she
could fancy his coming back after some
such absence, and looking at his children,
and saying nothing ; and then finding his
books, and pretending to read, but looking
at them still, over the tops of the

pages. Once, such a picture, or such a
reality, would have made her angry ; but
she did not think either would do so
now. Silence would at least be better
than this ceaseless babble to a stranger.

It is sad but true, that we seldom appreciate
the comforts of our own homes
until we peep in and behold the cold,
cheerless, cushionless rooms of our neighbours
; never know how well our own
shoes fit, until we see how painfully our
brothers' toes are pinched. This may bea
selfish satisfaction, no doubt — of the
earth, earthy — and yet let us go down on
our knees, and pray God it may come to
each of us before we are homeless, or
have to go barefoot.

Honor wished she could go away. It
seemed to her that she was intruding
here ; but it had been previously arranged
that her father and Gladys should walk
up and fetch her away in the afternoon.
She had no choice but to wait.

She waited impatiently, however, looking
at her watch now and then, and out of
the window continually, thereby losing
much of the Colonel's interesting conversation.


I was on the Rhine yesterday, and
at Strasbourg last night," he was saying,
in his melodious voice. " The weather
was very fine ; but the season is certainly
more advanced there than it seems to be
here. All the wall-fruit was gathered,
that is, it was in the neighbourhood of
Frankfort, where I have been staying.
Do you know that part of the world. Miss
Carmichael ?" he asked, in almost the
same words, in which his daughter had
put the same question.

Honor, hearing herself addressed byname,
turned round, and confessed that
she did not know that part, nor indeed
any part of Germany, in fact had never
been out of England before.

It is a beautiful part of the world,"

continued the Colonel. '* And the place
at which I was staying is magnificent."
And then he enlarged on the splendours
of Schloss Reichenau, and the kindness
and hospitality of its owner.

Honor glanced at Valentine. This was
probably intended for her edification, and
she was malicious enough to expect to
see her friend's cheeks become suddenly
tinted by the same uncomfortable, uninvited
artist, who had rushed upon her
and painted her own a little while sine.
But she was disappointed. Valentine satin
her window-seat, perfectly calm and
cool, and provokingly indifferent. She
did not even turn aside her head.

'' Are you preparing for a fancy ball,
Valentine?" asked Colonel Murray, suddenly
breaking off in his panegyrics of
Schloss Reichenau, and addressing his
daughter. He glanced round the room ashe
spoke. It was a lovely afternoon.
Everything outside seemed to be flooded

with rivers of golden light. Inside, the
stream was less abundant, less full, but
it flowed in nevertheless, straying over
the girls' heads and hands, and flinging
a shower of bright firework sort of light
on the piles of clothes, heaped up here
and there on the floor.

Valentine began to explain whence
these objects had come, and the nature
of her afternoon's occupation. Her
father did not seem to be listening much.
His eyes were following the zig-lagging
course of a sunbeam.

What's that?" he said, with a start,
as the sunbeam, or his eyes, lighted at
last on the shining clasp of the little
'' Book of Hours," with its well-worn
edges, and deeply engraved name.
Where did that come from ?"

It came out of the old box,"
replied Valentine. '' I turned it out
amongst the other things. It was hardly
worth putting into the box, I should

have thought ; such a shabby little thing
as it is."

Colonel Murray did not answer. It
was a shabby little thing. There was no
possibility of contradicting that statement.
But then to some of us shabby
things say more than any amount of brand
new ones. They speak a language we
knew long ago, and thoughts we had
forgotten, till we hear it sound unexpectedly
again.

Honor looked round at the little book,
and then back at the Colonel. Perhaps
he knows to whom ifc belonged, she said
to herself. Why does not Valentine ask ?
And then she forgot all about the matter,
and listened eagerly for her moment of
release.

It came at last.

'' I see them, Honor," announced Valentine,
from the post of observation.
Here comes Gladys running on a- head,
and your father behind, and another

gentleman with him — young — tall — handsome
— dark. Who is it, Honor ?"

But Honor did not answer, because
she did not hear the question. She was
down, and away, and out in the lane,
before Valentine had finished making her
comments.

Stephen — Stephen !" she cried, running
out towards him.

Dear Honor, are you glad to seeme
?" he said, as he caught, and held
her hands in his.

That was all. Several pairs of eyes
were watching them, of which fact Honor
became immediately and painfully conscious.
There was the father looking
round puzzled at his daughter's unusual
exuberance of delight; there was the
little sister gazing up wonderingly, and
the friend peering through the garden-gate,
with her quick keen glance ; while
from above, another pair of eyes, inscrutable
as the Sphinx's, cold and grey

as northern icebergs, looked down upon
the scene.

'' Good-bye, Valentine," said Honor,
pushing her bright, happy face through
the bars of the gate, and kissing her
friend's cheek. But she did not say, " I
shall see you tomorrow," or "When
shall we meet next ?" as she usually said
when they parted. She forgot all about
that, or perhaps she had not time, for
Mr. Aylmer came up just then, and drew
her away.

Who is your friend ?" he asked, as
they walked away, side by side, out of
earshot.

Her name is Valentine Murray," replied
Honor. " She is really a great
friend of mine. I will tell you how she
became so by-and-by. Don't you think
her beautiful P" asked the girl, enthusiastically.


Beautiful— no !" replies Stephen, emphatically.
" She is handsome, I suppose;

but I scarcely looked at her, I
was looking at — something better, I
think. But you must tell me now, at
once, how she became your great
friend, or else I shall be jealous, little
Honor."

Honor told him, as quickly as she
could. It was a long story ; but she cut
it short. She was so anxious to come
to the end. " And now, Stephen, tell me
all that has happened to you since — since
that night, when we said good-bye to
each other?"

Nothing has happened to me, dear,"
said Stephen, rather sadly. " I have not
even heard from my uncle in India. I
suppose he has gone up to the hills, or to
some place or other where letters do not
follow him. Or perhaps he may have
nothing to offer me, and so does not
write." (Honor's face, bright already,
grew brighter still at these words) " Anyhow,
I thought I might as well await my

fate in France as in England. Something
seemed to draw me here. Can
you guess what that something was,
Honor ?"

Honor looked up shyly, and smiled a
little. Stephen caught her hand in his,
and pressed it with a confident, re-assuring
glance. They both thought they
knew, or had guessed, at any rate. But
alas ! guess-work is a poor thing, and
knowledge is finite, and neither of them
hit the truth that summer's night at
Piei'report.

END or THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON" :

Printed by A. Shulde, 13, Poland Street. (S. & H.

A STUDY.

BY HENRIETTA A. DUFF,

AUTHOR OF " Virginia : A ROMAN SKETCH," ETC.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:

Richard BENTLEY AND SON,
NEW BURLINGTON STREET.

1880.

Eight of Translation Preserved.

CONTENTS

THE SECOND VOLUME,

Chap. Page

XV. — IIow THE News Came . . . 179

XVI. — So Fearful were They op Infection . 189

XVII.— At Madame More's . . . .200

XVIII. — Honor's Eyes are Opened . . . 215

XIX.— On the Steps . . . . .220

XX.— Shadows 238

XXI. — How Honor Reached the Golden Gate . 2-18

XXII. — Carrying the Cross 267

XXIII. — The Harvest at the Vicarage . . 282

CHAPTER I.

Stephen's idea.

Ah, think of how we looked, and what we said ;
Laugh as I laugh ; your laugh is sweet to hear,
Love was our sovereign then rose-garlanded."

PHILIP Bourne Marston.

TEPHEN and Honor walked together,
side by side. Gladys
and lier father went flitting on
ahead. They went past the old grey
church on the hill, and down through
the narrow slanting streets towards
the Hue Bon Secours. They walked
fast, for it was near tea-time, and Gladys

VOL. II. B

-i,

gave the step. The other pair loitered
I little, I am afraid. But for the strong,
salt-tasted air, and the bright-eyed,
merry-faced people who clattered about
the street, and stared at them as they
passed, they might all have been back
again in St. Mark's Road.

To Honor it was like a dream;
only she did not know which was the
dream, the past or the present. She
seemed to be walking on air. She was
breathing in happiness and love; but she
was not conscious of either. It was one
of those rare, strange, tremulous moments,
when one is almost afraid to
count up one's treasures, lest they should
burst like bubbles at a breath.

I must look out for a lodging. I
only came by this afternoon's boat,"
Stephen was saying, in his dear,
delightful voice, as he went swinging
along beside her in his own old way,
with one hand in his pocket and the other

left free for any emergency. "And I
should like to get an Oriental master,
if I can. Perhaps your father might be
able to find me one ? I spoke to him
about it as we came up the hill— and
I spoke to him about something else, too,
Honor."

"Did you— did you?" she cried, and
her eyes seemed absolutely to dance with
delight. " And what did papa say ?"

"He said— well I am not quite sure
what he said, or whether he quite understood
what I said. We talked a little
about India, and he asked me how long
I meant to remain there. And then he
said something about that friend of yours
over there-told me she was pretty, or
clever, or something of that sort."

Honor felt rather disappointed. She
had made to herself a picture of her
father hearing the news. He was to look
surprised at first, then perhaps a little
sorry at the thought of losing her, and

B 2

then, oil ! so glad to welcome Stephen asa
son-in-law. She had looked at this
picture over and over again. But
Stephen's description was not in the
least like it. It was humiliating to
come in thus, between a geographical
topic and an everyday remark about her
own friend. She would not think about
it, however. She put the thought away
from her with a thrill, as if it were a
snow-flake she was" shaking off her cloak.
There should be no clouds before her sun,
no snow or rain, either, in her sunderland
to-day.

At any rate, I have done what I
ought to have done," said Stephen, in an
explanatory sort of voice. "And I will
not say much more, my prospects being
still so uncertain. The next Indian mail
will not be in for a fortnight, and
perhaps the letter will not come even
then."

Not come then ?" repeated Honor.

Oil, Stephen, perhaps — " and then she
stopped short suddenly, and crimsoned
all over.

Stephen Aylmer knew what she was
going to say. " Perhaps it would
never come at all." And then she would
be glad.

It was very hard upon these lovers that
the shadow of parting should be thrown
so immediately over the sunshine of their
meeting. Stephen could not give up India,
even for Honor's sake. He had made up
his mind, and he meant to stick to it.
What else could he do ? He had no profession,
no prospects ; no friends, except
his uncle, Sir Henry Aylmer ; no fortune,
except a paltry £400 a-year ; and what
could they do with that ? ^o, India was
the place for him, and to India he meant
to go.

But at the same time he was not unsympathetic,
and he had not known
Honor all these years for nothing. The

pain of parting would be intense. He
knew that. It must be so. But lie
thought she rather exaggerated matters;
as he, perhaps, was disposed to underestimate
them. It was not her own pain
she thought of so much, as the loss she
would be to her father and sister.

How would they get on without her ?
And who would do this and this, and. that
and that ; knowing their everyday ways,
and guessing and gratifying their desires
before they knew them themselves. This
was Honor's thought at that exact moment;
and Stephen knew it. She did
not put her thought into words, but
Stephen longed to answer her in words.
It was so absurd, on the face of it. Why
anybody could do the things Honor had
done — a servant — a governess. Gladys
must have a governess soon. There was
old Pincock, for instance. She would be
delighted to give up her school and go
and keep house for the Vicar. Why, she

might — she understood the Vicar and his
ways so well — she was not bad-looking
either, nor so very old, after all ; not that
that would signify to a man of Mr. Carmichael's
tastes; at which simple but
sublime solution of all doubts and difficulties,
Stephen laughed aloud.

"What is it?" asked Honor, whose
mind had been travelling too, but who
had not arrived at any mirthful conclusion.
'' Do tell me what you are
laughing at."

But Stephen declined to tell her. " A
brilliant idea had just struck him," he
said, " but it required maturing. He
could not divulge it just yet. In the
meantime, had Honor heard lately from
Miss Pincock ?"

Honor was beginning to explain how
she had not written lately; it was her
own fault, she had been busy, etc., and
was going on to ask after all her friends
in London, when to her unmitigated astonishment

she discovered that they were
entering the Eue Bon Secours, and that
Gladys was already flying back towards
them.

Tea — tea !" cried the child, who was
still a great way off. And then, as she
came nearer, she glanced at Honor, and
said — " Why, where are your gloves,
Honor? And what have you done with
your parasol ?" A most precise person
in matters of dress was Gladys.

Honor was conscience-stricken. She
must have left both these articles in the
Avenue Mont St. Michel, and neither she
nor Stephen had discovered their absence
till that moment.

'' You cannot go back for them now,"
cried Gladys, fancying she saw symptoms
of such an inclination on her sister's face.
It is tea-time, you know."

I will fetch them for you, afterwards,"
says Stephen, smiling. And then
they all go in to tea.

Tea again in the Chaplain's room. I
am really ashamed to introduce you to
another feast there. You will think my
friends the Carmichael not only spent
their own time in eating and drinking,
but also kept a sort of " house of call for
wayfarers ;" as a certain hospitable house
in a certain London square, with a
suggestive name, is well christened.

But this was a tea above all teas, and
deserves to be recorded. How Stephen ate
and drank, devouring a skinny-legged
chicken all by himself, and murdering
innumerable French words, to Gladys'
amusement and delectation. How he
admired everything, from the thick
white china cups, which he declared held
no more than a thimble, to Rosaline's
high' white cap, as she came clacking into
the room, staring at the bean Anglais, and
wondering at his prodigious appetite.
How Gladys laughed till she choked, and
Honor till the tears ran down her cheeks.

How even Mr. Carmichael looked up from
his book more than once, and smiled
benignly at them ; and the people in the
street outside, stood still now and then,
and wondered what was going on within.

All these things Honor remembered in
after years, and would tell you with
varying accuracy how many of those
gigantic cups of tea Stephen drank on
that occasion. Ten, I think, was the
number started with ; but it grew as the
years grew, and on one occasion I
remember hearing it gravely stated to
have been nineteen. This was contradicted
by some one present, but the
original statement that there never had
been such a tea before or since remained
unopposed. It was a feast for the gods,
and the gods were present — Cupid and
Psyche, at any rate.

Cupid was certainly not superior to the
mortal viands placed before him, but
seemed to find them very much to his

taste. Psyche, on the other hand, fed
literally as the gods feed. She poured
herself out a cup of tea, she crumbled a
piece of toast on her plate ; but she fed
on love, and drank in happiness. And a
most delicious repast she found it.

I do not know that I admire that
friend of yours very much, after all,
Honor," said Stephen, suddenly, during a
little pause. He had been peeling a peach
for Gladys, and popped it down on her
plate as he spoke.

The child looked up and laughed, and
expressed her gratitude to Stephen by
ably seconding his remark.

She is just like a cat," she said, in her
pouting, baby way. Honor laughed too.

'' Have you been thinking about her
ever since ?" she asked, archly. " What,
more tea ? Pass your cup, then. I think
I can squeeze out a few more drops from
this most long-suffering teapot."

Mr. Carmichael did not laugh, however,

though he looked up slowly from his
book.

'' I am afraid you are growing rather
pert, Gladys," he said, gently. " As for
Miss Murray, I should hardly have
thought you had time to judge of her
merits, Aylmer. She appears to me to bea
person of great intelligence, and as
handsome as she is clever."

This was a long speech for Mr. Carmichael
to make, and Stephen and Honor
looked at each other in some surprise.
He was certainly rather distrait to-day.
Perhaps his book did not interest him.
Perhaps (this was Honor's explanation)
he was thinking over some news he had
heard that afternoon.

I certainly had not time to judge of
Miss Murray's intelligence, sir," returned
Stephen, quietly. " As for her beauty —
when — " and the young fellow stopped
suddenly, and began to laugh again, as he
had laughed in the street a little while ago.

Mr. Carmicliael pulled his book back
before him with an impatient movement.
He resumed his reading. The
manners of the rising generation were
certainly not pleasing.

What is it, Stephen ?" asks Honor,
laughing too. There is nothing so
infectious as laughing. It beats scarlet-fever
and yawning all to nothing.
Have you another brilliant idea?"

ANDROMEDA.

Evermore
The young life comes bound to the cruel rocks
Alone. Before it the unfathomed sea
Smiles, filled with monstrous growths."

LEWIS MORRIS.

Meanwhile, in the Avenue Mont
St. Michel, another interview
was taking place between
another father and daughter.

Colonel Murray was still standing by
the window when his daughter came in
again, with her wind-blown, tumbled hair,
and great dilating eyes. She began tidying
the things that lay scattered about

on the floor; or rather she imagined
she was doing so, after a method of her
own. Mademoiselle Madelon was of a
different opinion, when she came in an
hour later.

So you have picked up some new
friends, Valentine ?" said her father, turning
round, and looking at her. He held
the little Book of Hours in his hand, and
had evidently been glancing through its
pages. But he re-clasped it now, stroked
it gently, and placed it in his pocket
in an absent sort of way.

Yes, father," replied Valentine,
slowly, " I have picked up some new
friends, as you say — or rather they picked
me up; I think. The girl did, out of the
sea, at any rate."

Who are they — what do you know of
them ?" asked her father.

*' I don't know much ; I only know
that they have been very kind to me,"
answered Valentine, with some warmth,

but speaking rather unwillingly too. It
was not a subject into which her father
would be likely to enter sympathetically.
** They are quite different from any other
people we, or, at least, I have ever met
before ; so much so, that, at first, I
almost tried not to know them; but it
seemed a sort of fate that I should do
so."

Colonel Murray looked at her again
keenly. Was Valentine beginning to find
out anything amiss in her own way of
life, he wondered ?

"You do not ask after your other
fate," he said, abruptly, after a pause.

Valentine was sitting on the floor
with one of the little cotton frocks on
her lap. There were some bits of lace
on the frocks which she had begun to
tear off. She waited till she came to the
end of one of the bits ; then she looked up
and said coldly : —

I suppose you mean Gras von Riches

I hope he was well when you left
him ?"

He was quite well when I left him,"
replied the Colonel, coldly too. "And
you will soon have an opportunity of
judging of his state of health for yourself.
Gras Otto will be here in three weeks'
time, Valentine."

Another little frock had been taken
up and begun upon. Snip, snip, rip,
went the lace. It was of an older,
more delicate kind, perhaps, than the
other. It came to pieces in her hands.
She went on pulling away at the threads,
however Would she speak when she
came to the end of that bit ? The
Colonel stood watching her. A curious
determined look had grown into both their
faces.

You do not seem much elated by my
news," said the Colonel, sardonically,
but speaking a little anxiously, too. It
was not the first time he had done

VOL. II. c

6?

battle with his daughter, and he had not
always come off victoriously. She was
altogether unlike other women he had
known, who would shake before his anger
like a leaf in a storm.

The truth was, she resembled himself.
It is always curious to observe the
manner in which kindred dispositions
act upon one another. The most common
result is a chronic spirit of contradiction ;
sometimes it begets an invincible antipathy
; rarely, very rarely, does it produce
sweetness or sympathy. I have
known two sisters, absolutely identical in
character, appear totally dissimilar when
in each other's company. Apart, their
views on all things were as twin thoughts ;
together, as sworn foes. Had they resembled
each other less, their natures
would probably have fitted, the one into
the other, like pieces of a dissecting
puzzle. At it was, they merely stood
one on the top of the other, angle over

angle, curve under curve. What did it
matter which was uppermost ? An acute
observer might indeed remark that the
stronger character of the two (there
are degrees among dwarfs, as among
giants) would usually take up the weaker
position. The weaker character would,
as a rule, be the foremost one, looking
like a martyr, singing away to itself like
an angel of sweetness and forbearance.
The stronger one lies underneath,
smothered in silence and suppression.

But people in general do not take
note of these subtleties. In this world,
at any rate, he who cries loudest is soonest
listened to, not he who most deserves to
be heard.

Neither Valentine nor her father, however,
had begun to cry out as yet. The
girl sat on the floor, still and silent ;
pulling away at her lace, and glancing
up now and then with eyes as deep
and grey as smouldering embers. Her

c 2

father stood against the table, glowering
at her.

Suddenly he threw down upon her
hands a little shower of bank-notes and
gold pieces.

That is for your trousseau' he said,
abruptly. '' You had better set about it
at once. Old Madelon can go with you
to the shops. She can pay Madame
Pulliot's rent, and spend the rest on your
finery. Only see that you get a handsome
trousseau, one befitting the rank of the
Grain von Reichenau — (the more so, indeed,
as it has to be purchased with the
Grass own money)"

This last sentence the Colonel muttered
under his breath, and Valentine did not
catch it. She would not have done soin
any case, perhaps, for at the words,
Grain von Reichenau," she had started
to her feet, panting like a wild warhorse.
The smouldering embers had
caught fire at last.

"Oh, father — father!" she cried,
stretching out her hands, as Andromeda
stretched out hers towards the rock
before Perseus appeared, and whilst the
dragon's mouth still yawned horribly
wide and close to her poor little naked
feet. " Spare me, father ! I cannot — I
will not — I dare not become Grain von
Eeichenau !"

Colonel Murray's eyes flashed.

Why, what change is this ?" he
cried, fiercely. " Who have you
been seeing during my absence ?" he
asked, with sudden suspicion. " Are
these the sentiments of your English
friends ?"

'rit is no change, as you know well
enough, father," said poor Andromeda,
pitifully. She knew there was no Perseus
in the air for her, and she felt she must
save herself, or sink into those hateful,
yawning jaws. *' From the first I said I
never would marry the Gras von E/ci-

chenau ; from the first I knew I never
could love him "

*' Love — love !" interrupted the Colonel,
with a laugh that was not pleasant to
hear. " What do you know about love, T
should like to know ?"

"What, indeed?" returned Valentine,
bitterly. " I have not known much of
it, in the course of my life, certainly.
But I do know, or have heard, or read
somewhere, that marriage without love is
a bad thing. Is this news to you, my
father ?"

The father winced. It was a random
shot ; but it hit straight for all
that.

It cannot be that you do not know
this," pursued Valentine, unconsciously.
'* You, who have been about so much in
the world, must have seen scores of
such marriages. Do not add one more
to the number in the person of your
daughter."

Colonel Murray laughed again. He
was immensely relieved by Valentine's
speech.

You ought to write a book, Valentine,"
he said, mockingly. " An English
novel; you have so much milk-and-water
sentimentality about you. But
come, now, be reasonable. Life, as you
know very well, cannot be carried on by
the moralising of novelists. Life requires
beef and mutton, not sugar, and stuff of
that sort "

Life requires love," interrupted
Valentine, in a low, clear, but strange
sounding, far-away sort of voice. Indeed,
she hardly recognized it herself.
She hardly knew her own voice ; she
hardly acknowledged her own thought.
It was as if someone else had taken possession
of both for a second.

Colonel Murray started. The voice
spoke to him across a sea of years, and
brought rolling towards him wave after

wave of memories. He saw his dead wife
trembling before him ; his lost love standing
up calm and cold, clear as the sky,
that starless night at Coulanges. Which
of these did Valentine resemble ? Neither,
he well knew. She resembled himself —
her father; the ruined, reckless, broken-down,
broken-hearted man.

For a moment, selfish, and sinful, and
involved in many ways as he was, he had
pity upon her — pity upon the young life
that was just beginning and that might
end like his. For a moment he was considering
whether Andromeda's father could
not cut Andromeda's chain ; when suddenly
the door opened, and Mademoiselle
Madelon appeared.

Un jeune monsieur qui vient demander
Vomhrelle de Mademoiselle Carmichael,"
announced she, in her croaks voice, as
she went peering and poking about under
the tables and chairs.

The father and daughter looked up as

the old woman spoke, and saw the jeune
monsieur standing in the doorway, tall,
handsome, shy.

I am afraid I am intruding," says hein
his brusque British way. "No, I
won't come in, thank you. I did not
intend to come upstairs, but" (with a
glance at Mademoiselle Madelon, indicating
uncertainty as to her social condition)
'' I am afraid my French is very feeble, I
could not make myself understood. Oh !
thanks, yes — that's the parasol. Goodnight.
Thanks."

CHAPTER III.

THE SEA-GULL.

Alas, how easily things go wrong,
A kiss too much, or a sigh too long,

And there follows a mist, and a blinding rain,
And life is never the same again."

GEORGE MACDONALD.

After all, Mr. Aylmer need not
have troubled himself to have
climbed all that way up to
Mont St. Michel after Honor's parasol,
for Miss Murray could easily have
brought it back with her when she came
down to the Rue Bon Secours, as usual,
next morning.

Honor was rather surprised to see her.
It was Valentine's custom to come in
every morning and learn the arrangements
for the day, and take her part in
them. But it seemed strange she should
do so now that her father had returned to
her, and on the very first day after his
return, too.

She said nothing, however, and they
went out for their walk as usual. Down
to the beach and back again. As they
came homeward along the port, Stephen
Aylmer joined them.

He had been to the Eue Bon Secours
to inquire for them, and learning from
Rosalind their probable whereabouts, had
followed them thither. He scowled a
little at Miss Murray at first, but on being
formally introduced to her, shook hands
pleasantly enough. Her company, however,
evidently was not desired by him,
for he placed himself by Honor's side,
and made many surreptitious attempts

to draw her down by-streets and winding
alleys. But his endeavours were frustrated.
Gladys distinctly declined the
pleasure of Miss Murray's exclusive company,
and hung back as Stephen hung
back, and sometimes loitered behind altogether.
So these four unwilling companions
walked abreast, untidily enough,
hustling the passers-by, and hustling
Stephen every now and then into the
little gutters that ran along the sides of
the street — which result did not altogether
please Mr. Aylmer, and caused
him to express a hope, as they sallied
forth for their afternoon's walk, that
they might not meet Honor's friend
again.

Gladys fully entered into his feelings.

Let us go to Petit Pierreport," she
said, delighted to have found an ally.
We shall not be so likely to meet her
there."

Honor nodded assenting. Gladys

kissed her hand to little Gaspard, who
was sitting on the doorstep of the hairdresser's
shop, eyeing them solemnly with
his big black eyes ; and to Madame Pleon,
who was pulling the dangling bell-wire
at the convent-door, and asking through
the grating for Soeur Genevieve ; and
then off they started, up one street and
down another, Gladys scudding on before,
and keeping a sharp look-out at the street
corners.

'' Oh, there she is !" cried the child, at
last, clasping her hands together in dismay.
" There she is, posting down the
Grande Rue after us."

Could we not dive down a side-street?"
suggested Stephen.

*'I am afraid not," said Gladys, despondently.
'' She has seen us with those
horrid cat's eyes of hers, and now she is
waving her nasty green parasol " (with a
double burr on all the r's), "to make us
see her."

Honor looked round with a chiding
smile. She remembered her father's
injunction. Perhaps Griadys was really
growing rather pert. Stephen, however,
laughed outright, and complimented the
child on her progress in her r's.

'' We will walk together if Miss Murray
joins us," he said, 'rand you shall give
me a lesson in French pronunciation,
Gladys." And walk with the child
he did ; to the secret disappointment,
perhaps, of both the other
girls.

There is not much to see at Petit
Pierreport. It is only a small cluster
of red-roofed cottages, crowned by a
church, and dropped down like a flowerbed
on a bit of undulating ground,
between the rolling sea on the one
side, and the waving cornfields on the
other. It is a fishing village exclusively,
but it possesses a quaint and ancient
churchyard (the church itself has been

pulled down and built up again many
times), which goes sloping down to the
sands, where the winds and waves make
endless moan for the dead, long after
their earthly friends have forgotten
them.

Part of this churchyard, the lowest
part, nearest to the sea-wall, is appropriated
to Protestant graves. There are
not many of them in it, however, for
Pierreport is a healthy place, and but
few of the foreign visitors who come
there for the summer months come to
die. Mr. Carmichael had not yet had
to read the funeral service over anyone
of his temporary and migratory
flock.

Nevertheless — actuated no doubt by
that morbid love of tombs which inspires
the ordinary Englishman to walk off his
friends to the nearest cemetery, as " the
prettiest point in the neighbourhood," —
many and frequent were the pilgrimages

made by the visitors at Pierreport to the
tiny churchyard beside the sea. Some
came by to-day ; two grand young ladies
with their governess, a little bare-legged
boy, their brother, running along behind
them with a bunch of seaweed in his

hand. They were the Mac B s from

Madame Pulliot's house in the Place
Imperialee. They turned back, however,
without entering the churchyard. A
funeral was taking place among the
crosses and flowers in the Roman Catholic
part of the burying ground. Gladys,
who had run on before the rest of her
party, stood at the gate, looking in with
great awe-struck eyes.

Soeur Genevieve is there," she said, as
the others came up. " Madame Pleon
could not have found her at the convent,
when she asked for her just now."

*' Come, Gladys," cried Honor, trying
to lead the child away. The sight of all
those weeping, black-robed people, made

her shudder. Stephen asked who Soeur
Genevieve might be ?

Honor began to explain. '' She comes
from the convent opposite our house in
the Rue Bon Secours' she said.

Then Valentine interposed.

She is one of those extraordinary
beings who call themselves Brides of the
Church, and yet dress themselves up as
widows," she cried, with a mocking
laugh.

Stephen laughed too. He was fond of
a joke, as most men are ; and though
if Honor had happened to make that
remark he would have been annoyed at
her want of taste, it did not strike him
in that light coming from Miss Murray.
He even began to think her a sharp,
amusing girl. A man's own particular
womankind are always judged (by that
officer himself, at least), by a very
different standard from the rest of her
sex.

VOL. IT. D

But to Honor this was all very horrible.
It seemed like laughing at the poor
bereaved people, whose hearts were heavy,
and whose eyes were sore with weeping.
It seemed almost like mocking at the
dead itself. She put her arm round
Gladys' shoulder and led her away.

They went and sat down on the sands
with their faces towards the sea, their
backs turned upon the little red-roofed
village and its wave washed churchyard.
A fish-wife went by, with her basket on
her back, her baby slung round her
waist in a shawl. The Bno^lish children
disappeared along the sands like specks
on the horizon. There was an old
fisherman sitting under the shade of an
old boat. He smoked his pipe, and
mended his net, and mumbled away to
himself. Some children played round
him, amidst the scrubby furze bushes
and short scant grass that fringed the
shore. They were tiny toddling things,

with bare legs, and little black caps tied
down tightly under their little pink
chins. They played together quietly, as
if they feared to wake the dead, who
lay sleeping so soundly close at hand.
The waves came swishing in, softly, softly,
singing their eternal Schemer-lied .
Our own little party sat very still and
silent. At last Valentine spoke.

I wonder where that bird is going ?"
she said, watching a sea-gull rise from
its bed of sea-weed, and fly off towards
the sea, flapping its white wings, and
whirling round and round like a butterfly.

Home to Mrs. Gull, I should think,"
suggested Honor.

Pas si hete,'^ replied Valentine, with
a laugh. " Having once escaped from
the screaming and screeching of Mrs.
Gull, he is not likely to hurry himself to
return to those dulcet sounds. At least I
should say not, judging by my experience
of human gulls."

D 2

"Who have been gulled into matrimony,
I suppose," said Stephen, not
addressing anyone in particular, but
stealing a quick laughing glance at
Honor, as he lay on the sands at her
feet.

Miss Murray, however, received the
remark with the contempt it deserved.

I don't think I should do so either,
under the circumstances," she said, continuing
her own speech, and taking no
notice of Mr. Aylmer's. " How delightful
it must be to be a bird, and have the
power of flying hither and thither, and
wherever and whenever one pleases !"

Certainly Valentine was not in one of
her home-longing moods to-day.

But the power of flying, or rather
the freedom to fly, must often depend
more upon others than upon oneself,
I should think," said Honor, thoughtfully.
Both girls were perhaps looking at themselves
under the figure of the sea-gull.

How ?" asked Yalentine.

Supposing there were only some little
baby-gulls left in the nest," said Honor,
softly and dreamily. " Or some helpless
old birds, perhaps ; then the strong gull
would not be free to use his wings —
then it would be selfish and wrong
of him to fly away and leave them
alone."

"I don't see that at all," returned
Valentine, stoutly. '' You speak as though
there were only one gull in all the world.
It is such a ridiculous notion that only
certain people can fill certain places.
Why, the world is full of people who
could perform one's own small particular
duties as well, if not better, than we
can do them ourselves. Don't you agree
with me, Mr. Aylraer ?" It was the first
time she addressed him pointedly.

Stephen hesitated. He did not like
the girl, and it was a bore her tacking onto
them in this manner. Still he could

not be rude to her ; and besides, she did
make rather sensible remarks — and on his
side, too.

T think you are right," he said. " I
suppose it is a mistake to fancy oneself
an indispensable being." And then he
looked carefully away from Honor, and
stretched out his long legs over the sand,
and gazed at the sea.

But Honor jumped up as he
spoke.

It is time to go home," she said.
Come, Griadys." So homewards they
went.

It was a silent walk. 'No one talked
much except little Gladys, who chattered
away incessantly to herself, doubtless
finding her own society more congenial
than that of her taciturn elders. Stephen
was very absent. He was sorry to have
hurt Honor's feelings, and yet might it
not do her good ? Valentine, who
was neither quick nor sensitive, except

where her own immediate feelings were
concerned, made a few spasmodic remarks,
and was surprised to find them so
coldly received. Honor scarcely spoke at
all.

Poor Honor ! hers was a tender, faithful
nature, whose very blunders were
occasioned chiefly because she had set
herself such a lofty ideal, and the road
was so steep that led up to it. At the
present moment, all her powers seemed
to be warring together, within herself;
her head against her heart, her judgment
against her feeling ; and a most uncomfortable
state of anarchy she found it. She
was trying to think that Stephen was
right, and she was wrong. But it would
not do. It was like trying to believe a
dogma in which she had no faith (I cannot
help quoting Mr. Hawes here), or
rather, it was like struggling to get into
a coat too small for her. The dogma
might not be false, the coat might be

large enough for other folks ; but neither
would fit her. There are so many things
that are right for one person, and
wrong for another.

It is of no use to lay down laws —
least of all for ourselves. They are
sure to be uprooted next day, by an
express train of exigences. It is a terrible
moment, when we first feel that our needs are
larger than our neighbours, and that what
satisfies them is insufficient for us. Later
we learn, perhaps, that every condition
has its compensations. But, for the time
being, we feel adrift in a world full of
fog ; and even the light that is in it is so
tainted with smoke — and love, and pity,
and duty, are so mixed up with selfishness
and vanity — that it would be impossible
to grope our way aright but
for those instincts which God has
planted, like seeds, deep down in the
hearts of each of us.

Honor's seed, had grown almost into a



tree, and she was so used to leaning against
it that she believed things were only seen
in their proper colours when looked at
beneath its shade.

STEPHEN S IDEA Grows.

A human heart should beat for two,

Whate'er may say your single scorners ;
And all the hearths I ever knew
Had got a pair of chimney corners."

F. LOCKER.

Nor aud Stephen had a pretty
Httle reconciliation after Valentine
had left them once more
and when they were going up the dark,
twisting stairs that led to the Chaplain's
in No. 40, Rue Bon Secoui's.

*' You did not really think that I meant
what I said just now ?" whispers Stephen

to Honor, laying his hand over lies, as
she drags herself up the stairs by means
of the iron illustrating. " You know
you are, and always must be, the one
and indispensable being to me?"

Did she know ? Did she say so ? Did
she look as if she thought so ? How
can I tell? The staircase was very
dark, the shutters outside the windows
being closed to keep out the heat ; and
Honor's voice was very low — so low, that
even Stephen himself had to put his
face quite close to hers, in order to hear
what she said, and

I only hope we shall not always enjoy
so much of your friend's company," he
remarks, as they reach the landing at
last.

Hopes which were vain, however. It
was astonishing (at least to Honor it
seemed astonishing), the immense amount
of shopping which Valentine found
necessary to execute just now. There

were ribbons to be matched, bands to be
bought, autumn toilettes of all kinds to
be invented and arranged. And as the
best shops were all to be found in the
Eue Bon Secours, Valentine was usually
to be found there too, accompanied by
Mademoiselle Madelon, carrying parcels.

'' Are you buying your trousseau .^"
asked Honor, one day, meeting her thus.
And then she suddenly bethought herself
that the question was perhaps impertinent,
and blushed like a rose.

For once in her life, Valentine blushed
too.

Oh no, no," she replied, hurriedly.
"But les affaires de man pere have prospered
well, and he has given me some
money to fit myself out afresh. It has
not come too soon, ce don. Allons, chez
Juvat, le gautier. Mademoiselle Made-hon."


It was perhaps for the same reason
that Valentine took to haunting the

marche about this time. Prosperous
affaires no doubt necessitate improved
dinners, and cette pauvre Made Ion had no
ideas beyond houilli and fricandeau, as
Valentine informed Honor. The marche
opens out of the Rue Bon Secours, as
everybody who has been to Pierreport
knows ; and it was a pretty sight to
see the young girl flitting about, pinching
the fowls' breasts with the air of a
connoisseur, and inquiring gravely into
the price of butter and eggs. Stephen
met her there, thus employed, one day.
He bought some flowers, and gave them
to her, and then she looked prettier
still. He told Honor about it afterwards.


I like to see a woman interest herself
in such matters," he said. '' I should not
have thought it of Miss Murray; but
she has gone up considerably in my
estimation since I saw her in the market
this morning. It shows how wrong

first impressions may be. I fancied ber
foolish and frivolous. Now I should have
no hesitation in recommending her as a
good, steady house-keeper, even to a
ready-made English family. Do you
know of such a one. Honor ?" (with a
twinkle in his eye, unaccountable to his
companion). *' I daresay she can even
cook. Foreign ladies have all sorts of
accomplishments."

Honor did not say that second thoughts
are sometimes more wrong than first
impressions ; nor that, judging by the
ordinary way in which things were
managed in the Avenue Mont St. Michel,
she should be sorry to be abandoned for
any length of time to Valentine's exclusive
exploits in gastronomy. She merely
remarked, with a smile and a blush, she
was afraid she did not know much about
cooking, herself.

You r cried Stephen, amused at the
ingenious manner in which she had

brought the conversation round to
herself. " Who ever mentioned your
name in the matter ? You are not going
to take a situation in a ready-made
family, are you ? On the contrary, you
are going to resign one, you know."

And yet, even then. Honor did not
guess Stephen's idea.

He never would tell them what it was.
Gladys teased about it at first, and
Honor used to wonder a little. And
then they forgot all about it. But
Stephen would still, from time to time,
allude to it mysteriously.

Is not papa looking well ? Has he
not improved in spirits ?" said Honor,
to her usual interlocutor, one of those
days, when they heard Mr. Carmichael
laughing, absolutely laughing, over some
small witticism of Valentine's. "My
plan, as you call it, has not answered
so badly, after all, has it, Stephen ?"

It is my idea, which is answering

better still," replies Stephen enigmatically.
And then these two laugh together
also.

Afterwards Stephen was sorry this idea
had ever occurred to him. He never discovered,
at least, not for years and years,
whether there were any reasonable grounds
for such a suspicion ; but it tickled his
fancy, and interested and amused him
at first, and led him astray in the end.
And that end was already beginning,
although he knew it not.

And so he fell easily into the fashion of
admiring Valentine, and laughing at her
sayings as the others did. " Let her
walk with us," he would say, "it makes
our party larger." And Honor acquiesced,
of course. She wanted everybody to be
as happy as herself. She would have
liked to believe that the whole world
was peopled with lovers in those days.
Valentine's lover was still away. They
must make her as happy as they could,

during his absence. And so they went
for long rambling walks over the hard
yellow sands, and into the woods beyond
Mont St. Michel. Valentine went with
them always, Mr. Carmichael sometimes ;
and then, as Stephen hinted, the little
party split up naturally and pleasantly, and
they were all very comfortable together.

It was a delicious, dawdling time.
No one had anything to do, and would
not have done it if they had, as Mr.
Aylmer also justly remarked. Such times
are like bits of old age worked into
one's youth. They often occur, I think,
before, or after, any of the extra scrambles
of life.

And so the days rolled away, the still
lingering summer days, and the uncle in
India had as yet made no sign. But the
breath of autumn was already in the air,
and the touch of his fingers on the trees
of the forest, and the great ships were
ploughing the great ocean, and postmen

VOL. IT. E

HONOR CARMICHAEL.

were hurrying livelier and thither, with
the tidings of life and death, and the
fate of millions closed and sealed in their
hands.

A BREAK IN THE RHYTHM.

The little rift within the lover's lute,
That by and by will make the music mute,
And ever widening, slowly silence all."

TENNYSON.

f^|N^ND so, as I have said, the days
rolled away, one by one, for
that little cluster of friends at

Pierreport.

They were all alike — all smiling sunshiny
days. Even to Honor, as she
looked back upon them in after years,
they seemed only like a sheet of water,
shining and shimmering to and fro in

.^E 2

,. LIB.

the sunlight. Ah ! by that time, poor
soul, she, herself, was standing in the
shade.

To Stephen, these days naturally appeared
more monotonous still. It was not
quite a wholesome life for an eager young
man, and he felt this; but he did not
say much about it. It was pleasant
enough on the whole; an easy-flowing
life, like an ever-recurring rhyme. It
might be a little wanting in meaning at
times, but Stephen was not going to
complain of that. There would be
plenty of time for heroics by-and-by.


There came a break in the rhythm at
last.

Colonel Murray has asked me to
dinner," said Stephen, swinging himself
into the Carmichaels' salon one fine
morning. *what shall I do, Honor? Agro
or not go ?"

Honor hesitated a moment — scarcely a

moment. She did not know what she
was deciding at that moment, or she
might perhaps have hesitated longer.
As it was, she looked up brightly and
said : —

'' Gi-o, I should say, Stephen. There is
no reason why you should not go, is
there ?"

Perhaps she hoped he would say there
was. She fancied he had found it rather
dull at Pierreport ; which was not to be
wondered at, seeing that her father, withall
his improvements, was not very companionable
even yet, and of her own powers
she always entertained the smallest
opinion. This was foolish of her, and
made her feel faint-hearted and mistrustful
at times. It is better to have a good
opinion of oneself, if one wishes to extract
a similar sentiment from the world in
general. If one starts for a long walk,
one is pretty sure of going a little way,
whereas if one only intends to stroll down

the street, one often remains on the doorstep
all day long. The grasp that would
compass something great, is almost certain
to clasp a little bit of it, sooner or later ;
but the hand that fears to stretch an
octave, is not likely to make much
tune out of the notes between.

This, however, was not one of Honor's
principles ; and being a generous, confiding,
humble-minded girl, she was content
nay, glad — that Stephen sometimes
should exchange her little piping tunes
for greater and grander music. It is sad,
is it not, how often generosity has a
tendency to drift into extravagance ?

But what if she were mistaken about
her little piping song ? What if Stephen
did not find it dull at Pierreport ? What
if it was only her fancy, after all, and he
were going to contradict her remark ? She
listened eagerly.

"I do not care much about going
myself'* he cried, in a careless, indifferent

tone. " But, since you wish it, Honor,
I will accept Colonel Murray's invitation."
And so the matter ended.

'' You must tell me all about the
party, tomorrow," said Honor, as, on
the appointed evening, Stephen looked
in for a moment, in all the unwonted
splendour of evening attire. The Carmichaelss
were at tea at the time. Mr.
Carmichael was stooping over his
inevitable book. Honor was pouring out
the tea. There was some crochet-work
by her side. When no one was present
Honor used to work a little during certain
meals, Gladys being given to spinning out
her feasts indefinitely. The child looked
up now, and choked over a piece of bi^ead
and butter. Mr. Aylmer turned away
hastily. I daresay it all seemed very dull
and homely in his eyes. It is astonishing
how one changes one's ideas as one
changes one's clothes.

After all, Stephen hardly told them

anything about Colonel Murray's dinner
party.

It was not really a party," he said,
somewhat testily, in answer to Honor's
questions. '' There was only one other
fellow besides myself — an old Frenchman,
a crony of the Colonel's. We had a very
good dinner, and after dinner Miss Murray
sang. And then, quite late in the evening,
we had a rubber of whist, and one or
two other games."

'Musing games ?" asked Gladys.

Well — yes — they were new ones to meat
any rate," said Stephen, hesitatingly.
And he put his hands in his pockets
as he spoke.

Oh, then you must teach them tome,"
said the child, patronisingly. '* I
want some new games so much. When
will you begin — now, at once?" And she
herself commenced operations by climbing
over her future teacher's knee.

Her future teacher, however, did not

approve of this proceeding. " Don't
bother," he said, pushing her away. " Go,
and play with your doll, Grades."

But the child stood up before him, with
her little thumbs stuck into the sash of
her frock, her great brown eyes scanning
him gravely.

I suppose you do not know the games
well enough yourself, yet, Stephen, to be
able to teach them to any one else," she
said, slowly. And then she marched
away with the air of an offended
princess.

If he did not know them well enough
then., he must soon have become proficient
in them. That is to say, if
practice bas anything to do with perfection
; which is doubtful. For Stephen
Aylmer accepted many other invitations
from Colonel Murray, and never seemed
to think it necessary to ask Honor's
advice upon the matter any more.

He was out again the next night, the

evening of the same day when the
recorded conversation took place. He
had some work to prepare for his Oriental
master, he said. He left them before
tea-time. The rooms in the Rue Bon
Secours felt rather dreary without his
deep ringing voice, and merry laugh.

The nights were beginning to grow
chilly. " Yes, draw the curtains, please,
Rosaline, and bring a lamp." Rosaline
brought a lamp with a green shade. Mr.
Carmichael fell to his reading immediately.
Honor played at draughts with
Gladys. The clock went on, ticking,
ticking, ticking — knocking off the seconds
one by one. It was getting near the
child's bed-time.

Presently Rosaline came marching in
again, with a letter in her hand.

It was not for Monsieur," she said,
but for another English gentleman.
The postman could not read the direction,
so he had brought it here, thinking it

probable the Ministre Anglais might be
able to inform of the address of his
compatriots'' And she laid the letter down
upon the table.

Honor took it up. It was addressed to
Stephen Aylmer, Esq., and had been
re-directed from London in a perfectly
illegible manner. It was an Indian letter
Honor saw at once, and her hand
shook and her heart throbbed at the
thought of what might be contained
within. The fate of two lives lay,
perhaps, folded up between that sheet of
paper.

"It is for Mr. Aylmer," said Honor,
and her voice shook a little as she spoke.
"I do not know the address of his
lodgings, but the letter can be left here.
He will probably call in the morning."

Rosaline nodded, and withdrew herself
to finish her flirtation with Henri le
facteur,

Will not Aylmer be here to-night.

my dear ?" asked Mr. Carmicliael, closing
this book, and folding his hands across it.

The spirit seemed suddenly to have
evaporated out of his work, under the
influence of Rosaline's cap and clacking
shoes.

*' No, papa," replied Honor, " his
Oriental master is with him to-night."

But he was not here last night,
either, was he ?" continued the father,
who had certainly grown more alive to
external events since he had been at
Pierreport.

No, papa," replied Honor, again.
He was dining with Colonel Murray
last nio^ht."

*' And he will not be here tomorrow
night, either," cried Gladys, in her shrill,
childish voice. " He is going to hear
Valentine sing some new song. I heard
her ask him, and I heard him say yes."

It was thus the sweet monotonous
rhythm was broken — thus, the gently

flowing stream found itself suddenly full
of little eddies, and whirls, and tides, and
currents, setting this way and that. And
the waters rose, and the tides swept on,
for high in the sky, over the earth, a new
moon had risen.

A GHOST STORY.

A shadow flits before me,
Not thou, but like to thee."

MAUD.

HAT same evening Henri le
fader delivered another letter
at another house ; the person to
whom it was addressed being also not
there, at that moment, to receive it. This
letter was directed not in an illegible
hand, but in stiff, straight, square-topped
characters, to M. le Colonel Murray,
Avenue Mont St. Michel, Pierreport.

It was a thick letter, necessitating double
postage, and the post-mark on it was
Frankfurt.

Mademoiselle Madelon took in this
letter. She came out of the kitchen todo
so, and for once appeared without her
mittens. Madame Pulliot accompanied
her in a friendly manner, Mademoiselle
Madelon being of a timorous temperament,
and unnerved even by a sudden
knock at the door. The pair had
achieved a complete reconciliation soon
after their last squabble, and had lived
together in amity ever since. The paying
of the rent had been the signing of peace.
Madame Pulliot had kept her curiosity
within tolerable bounds since then, and
Mademoiselle Madelon was decidedly a
person of importance in her capacity of
Chancellor of the Exchequer to the
Murray family. Besides which, there
were other secrets, and sweet dedommage'
merits for both of them, poor old souls.

So far does the sun of prosperity throw
his glittering beams.

Quel gros piquet T' says Madame
Pulliot, weighing the letter in her fat
podgy hands. " It doubtless contains
something most precious — more banknotes,
perhaps — eh, my friend?"

Something more precious than banknotes
to Mademoiselle, I should fancy,"
replies Mademoiselle Madelon, with a
senile giggle. Since their improved circumstances,
the little dame de compagnie
was more than ever tenacious of the
dignity of '' the family."

What— love-letters?" inquires Madame
Pulliot, with astonishing alertness
of apprehension.

Mademoiselle Madelon nodded. They
had retreated once more to the kitchen
by this time, where something of unusual
importance was taking place among the
pots and pans, to judge by the spluttering
and hissing they made. Mademoiselle

Madelon went round from one to
the other, peeping into this, stirring
that, tasting them all indifferently. Madame
Pulliot followed her with her
eyes.

Ah ! it is from Monsieur V Allemand,
then," she said, laying the letter down
on the table, beside her friend's mittens.
*' You recognize his hand writing, cohere
amie T^

Mademoiselle Madelon nodded again.
She was not going to commit herself one
way or the other.

There ought to be a good bundle of
them, certainly, seeing they come so
seldom," continued Madame Pulliot.
'not that I should fancy Monsieur
Vamani had much to say for himself, nor
does he seem to be in a hurry to say it,
if he has. Fo^7a," (jotting the words off
on her fat fingers), " deux, trois, quatre semaines
que Monsieur le Colonel est de retour,
and the faithful lover appears no more.

VOL. [I. F

Guest drove (;a — pourtant " and here

Madame Pulliot winked her black eyes,
and screwed up her thick lips, and looked
as though she were about to whistle a
little tune.

"The faithful lover will return in due
time," replied Mademoiselle Madelon,
stiffly. She was bending over the pole,
with her back to Madame Pulliot, so that
lady's suggestive attitudes were lost upon
her.

In due time — eyes, no doubt," assented
Madame Pulliot, shrugging her old
shoulders, which action was also lost
upon her friend: '' And, in the meantime.
Mademoiselle se console prettily
enough, avec les promenades, les pique-piques,
les diners, and now to-night le
theatre, with another jeune lioinme, 'plus
heo-u que Autre a ce qu'il me parait.
Does this beau jeune lions return to
supper also ?"

Ma fui, vespers que non"* responded

Mademoiselle Madelon, in a fuss. " All
this is for tomorrow," casting an artist's
eye round upon the implements of her
craft. " Monsieur a commands le diner
pour demain, but for to-night he said never
a word."

'' Et pour demain, how many guests ?"
inquired Madame Pulliot, glancing round
at the flesh-pots too.

'' Five or six," replied Mademoiselle
Madelon. "There will be the Colonel
and his daughter, and Monsieur Aylmere,
in whose honour the dinner is made ; and
le vieux Baron de Contencourt, who will
bring his man Adolph to wait ; and Monsieur
Levi, if he can get away from his
patients, and who will be the most honest
man of the party, to my taste," says little
Mademoiselle Madelon, inspecting the
state of her soup-pot.

And who knows where he can get
plats to his taste," adds worthy Madame
Pulliot, with adroit flattery. '^ Ah ! mon

F 2

amie quel potage, clear as wine, and
bright as liquid gold."

Will you try some of it, and see
whether it is likely to be to the taste of
Dr. Levi ?" asks Mademoiselle Madelon,
looking round, and smiling affably. Her
face is somewhat browner than usual,
but that is, no doubt, the result of her
late exertions over the jwele. She pours
some of the " liquid gold" into two little
basins, which she places on the table in
an engaging manner.

The potage was pronounced perfect ;
so was an omelette, which came
leaping off the fire on to the table ; as
was also a little dish of cutlets, nicely
browned and parseme with herbs. It was
as if the conjuror and his cornucopia
were present, and dealt out to each one
his favourite dish, said Madame Pulliot,
who seemed to be in a pleasantly poetical
mood to-day. Then she remarked that

the Colonel did not seem to be sparing
in the matter of supplies.

Not he," returned Mademoiselle Ma-demon,
enthusiastically. " When he has
any money he spends it as fast as he can.
I tell him sometimes he has a hole in his
pocket."

It is a mercy if he has not a hole in
his head," responds Madame Pulliot,
enigmatically. And once more she seems
disposed to whistle that little tune.

"What do you mean?" asks Mademoiselle
Madelon, majestically. She was
clearing away the remains of the petit
souper, but stopped short as she spoke,
with a sheaf of knives and forks in her
hand.

Madame Pulliot helped herself to a last
remaining glass of wine.

I will tell you — yes, I must tell you,"
she began, confidentially. " I feel I
should go mad unless I told someone,
and you ought to be on your guard,

chere able. Well, it was the other night,
three days ago, at twilight. You had
gone down to the Rue Bon Secours to
fetch Mademoiselle, and I, being alone in
the house, opened the door to Monsieur.
He came in shaking and trembling in
every limb. He stumbled along the passage
and up the stairs. J follow him ; I
open his door for him and light a candle.
His hair is standing on end, his eyes
are starting out of their sockets.

Quest ce done, Monsieur le Colonel T I
ask, shaking like a leaf myself. He
started as I spoke, then sank down in a
chair. * Nothing, nothing,' he said, with
a laugh. ' I fancied I saw a ghost in the
lane, that is all.' And then he laughed
again, but, non Adieu, what a laugh ! It
seemed to shake the whole house.

Leave me,' he said, hoarsely ; and I did
so, taking care first of all to close the
window, for fear the ghost in the lane
should take a fancy to walk into the

house. Not that such a precaution
would be of the least use, to be sure, for
ghosts are like evil thoughts — they come
and go unbidden, and no bolts, or bars,
or locks, or shutters will keep them out.
But I did so involuntarily, and as I did
so, I glanced down into the lane. There
was no ghost there then, only one of
the sisters from the convent in the town
and that old solitary owl of a Pleon
standing together talking. T think the
sister was she they call Soeur Genevieve.
I could see her face plainly, for it was
up-turned, and the moon had risen. It
looked sharp and white, in that cold
light, and Madame Pleon seemed to be
talking in an agitated way. But there
was nothing else ghostly about them.
Bah ! mon beau Colonel you have a fine
imagination,' thought I to myself. Pourtant,

the next night "

Here, again, Madame Pulliot's lips
assumed the whistling position, and she

seemed disposed to pause in her thrilling
narrative.

Eh bleri, pourtant V^ repeats Mademoiselle
Madelon, who, with her sheaf
of forks, has not moved from the spot
whereon Madame Pulliot's tale had first
fixed her.

Well — the next day— afc the very same
hour," resumes Madame Pulliot, having
fortified herself with the remaining drop
of wine in her glass. " As I was returning
from the woods, whither I go to get
faggots, I suddenly heard the sound of
steps behind me. It was a lonely place,
just beyond Madame Picton's cottage, and
I felt my limbs begin to shake. Thud —
thud — closer and closer, came the steps ;
very heavy ones they were, as was not
to be wondered at when T saw whose
ghost it was. I felt its breath, like a
wind behind me — its shoulder rubbed
against mine— its hand swung against me
it nearly upset me, for it was an awkward

ghost — it was the ghost of le gros
Aliemand ! Bonsoir, Monsieur, cry I,
not wishing to give way to my foolish
fancies. But it took no notice; ghosts
never do, of course. It went on sweeping
and shouldering along the lane, and down
the steps, till it took the turn that leads
to the chemin-defer, And there I lost
sight of it," concludes Madame Pulliot
impressively. " Jugez maintenant, my
friend, whether this may, or may not
have been the ghost seen by Monsieur le
Colonel the night before."

But Mademoiselle Madelon was incapable
of judging anything of the sort.
She was a woman of weak nerves, and
seemed to be strangely moved by Madame
Pulliot's tale.

I don't like ghost-stories," she gasped,
glancing round nervously. " Shall we
have some coffee ?"

Madame Pulliot assented willingly.
Her friend had weak nerves, certainly,

but her coffee was not to be despised.
They were sitting together very comfortably
over the tall brown pot, when suddenly
there came a ring at the door.
Mademoiselle Madelon nearly leapt out of
her chair.

It is only Monsieur and Mademoiselle
who return from the theatre, you silly
frightened creature," says Madame PuUiot
encouragingly. " Go and open to them —
Here, take the letter. I will follow with
the lamp."

Madame Pulliot was right. Monsieur
and Mademoiselle had returned. Mademoiselle
was saying ^^ BonsoW over andover
again to some one in the darkness.
Monsieur was kicking his heels on the
threshold.

"What do you mean by keeping me
waiting like this ?" he began, angrily. And
then Mademoiselle Madelon put the letter
into his hand.

He tore it open — glanced at the first

line, and uttered an angry exclamation.


** He has seen another ghost," whispers
Madame Pulliot to Mademoiselle Madelon.
She still held the lamp, and had let its
light fall fully on the wild, haggard face
of Colonel Charles Murray.

A FAIRY STORY.
I'll give thee fairies to attend on thee."

MIDSUMMER NIGHT's DREAM.

Colonel MURRAY was in

possession of his letter sooner
than Stephen Aylmer received
his ; though whether he was to be
congratulated upon that fact, is an
open question. I hardly think he
himself would have answered it in the
affirmative.

Young Aylmer arrived later than usual

in the Eue Bon Secours next morning.


There is another Monsieur in the
salons says Rosaline, admitting him. *' A
drove de monsieur with a drove de figure.
He is a ministre too, I think. And there
is also a letter for Monsieur on the
table."

The " drove de monsieur with the drove
de figure'' was, as Stephen instantly
divined, no other than Mr. Wynch. He
had come over by the morning boat. He
had some questions on parochial matters
to put to the Yicar, and it was as easy to
come as to write. At least, so he said.
This was Wednesday, he was going back
on Saturday.

They were all sitting together in the
salon. Mr. Carmichael without his book
for once, Mr. Wynch with Gladys on his
knee, and Honor bending over her work,
and joining in the conversation now and
then. Stephen seemed to be shot in

among them like a cannon-ball. They
all started up as he entered. He greeted
the curate cordially enough, and expressed
a decent amount of pleasure at this unexpected
meeting. He had sometimes rather
vaguely regarded Mr. Wynch as a possible
rival in Honor's affections, but
his fear on this point was not very
great, and did not trouble his head
just now. Afterwards, it did occur to
him as rather strange that Mr. Wynch
should have come all the way over to
Pierreport, merely to ask a question, on,
say — Sunday-school primers.

Miss Murray was announced the
moment after Stephen's arrival. She
was dressed in one of her new toilettes,
and came in smiling, and looking as fresh
as a rose. She had brought a present for
Gladys, a little sugar priest, with a long
red nose, and a bottle under his arm
instead of a book. It was a very pretty
present for a clergyman's child, but

Gladys did not seem to appreciate it very
much.

Honor gave Stephen his letter. He
tore it open and read it, line by line.
Honor's eyes followed him. What did she
read written there ? Surprise, pleasure,
triumph, an assured future, a bright
vision of hope fulfilled ? Would a less
brilliant lot have seemed fairer in her
sight — a life less easy, perhaps, and more
homely ? No — no — surely she was not so
selfish. Stephen was fitted for great
things, and great things he must have.

She looked up and smiled at him, as he
looked down at her. Then he crunched
the letter up in his pocket, and glanced
at Valentine. Mr. Carmichael was
talking to her at that moment, and Mr.
Wynch was watching, in his wistful doglike
way. Honor's flushed and eager face.
It was not certainly a moment for a
private and personal discussion.

'* You must show Mr., Wynch the

humours of Pierreport, Miss Murray ; its
greatest beauty he has already seen,"
Mr. Carmichael was saying, with an old-fashioned
bow. " I regret extremely that
I shall not be able to accompany you in
your walk to-day, as I have been sent forby
a sick parishioner from a distance."

Valentine condoled with him gravely.

We shall miss you very much, Mr.
Carmichael," she said ; and she shook her
head prettily when Mr. Wynch was presented
as an " excellent substitute " by
the still facetious Vicar. Poor Mr. Wynch,
who was not a little astonished at his
Vicar's attempts at badinage — which, truth
to say, were rather of the heavy order,
and somewhat resembled an elephant
trying to leap like an antelope — bowed
slightly, and twitched a good deal.
Valentine could hardly keep her countenance.


Do you like the society of priests,
dear ?" she asked of Honor, as the latter

retreated to her apartment to array herself
for the promenade.

Ah ! I forgot. Je vous demande mille
pardons. You will marry a ministre, n'est-ce
pas ? Clergymen's daughters always marry
their father's curates, I have heard. And
this one — well, he is not graceful, but he is
good, I am sure. And you are so good,
too. You will just match. Yes — I see
it all — I see it all," repeats Valentine, with
a prophetic air.

Am I so ugly, too ?" asks Honor,
laughing. But she did not think it necessary
to contradict, or respond to, any of
her friend's other statements.

Having perceived thus clearly the state
of affairs, Valentine naturally acted upon
it in the most friendly manner. She left
Honor and Mr. Wynch as much alone as
possible. It would be a pity to spoil such
a pretty game, she said to herself. She
hinted as much to Mr. Aylmer, who happened
to be walking with her at the time.

VOL. IT. G

He stared at her, and began to say something
; then stared at the couple before
him, and held his tongue. But this was
a day or two later, when they were strolling
through the streets. Valentine, in
fact, was lagging behind, and looking into
a bonnet shop as she spoke.

To-day, however, they went on the pier,
and then for a stretch on the sands as far
as Petit Pierreport and back again.
Honor, of course, walked with Mr. Wynch,
as she had the cicerone part of the business
to do. Valentine knew nothing — had
never been there before — at least, so she
said, whenever Honor stopped and appealed
to her for information. Honor
was obliged to supply Mr. Wynch as best
she could out of her own slender store of
knowledge. Valentine, however, seemed
to have plenty to say to Mr. Aylmer.
They were talking about operas, ballets,
&c. Valentine had been in so many
places, and seen so much. Honor caught

the words "theatre" and "last night."
Then Mr. Wynch made some remark
about " the cretaceous formation of rocks."
Poor fellow, his subjects were the silures
and the old red sandstone, and the greywacke
series, and Honor found them very
dull, and grey, and sandy indeed.

By-and-by, he began telling Gladys a
fairy story. It was not a very brilliant
one, but the child seemed to like it. She
had clung to the curate all day, and would
hardly say a word to Stephen, who, however,
bore her neglect with equanimity.

The story was about a good fairy and a
bad one, both of whom traverse millions
of miles to be present at the birth
of some little prince. A struggle ensues
as to which of the two fairies shall guide
the destinies of the new-born mortal.
The good fairy conquers in the end, of
course, and carries off the little prize ; but
the bad fairy, being of an ingeniously
deceptive nature, manages to put her

G 2

sister through a long course of tortures
first of all. Honor found herself listening
in spite of herself. Gladys was deeply
interested.

But why did not the good fairy use
her wand when the bad fairy met her in
the wood?" asked the child. "All the
fairies have wands, you know. They are
made of ferns, and when they stretch
them out towards anything that will hurt
them, such as a snake, or a bat, or a
bunch of poisonous berries, the leaves on
the wand shrivel up, and that is a sign

they are not to go near these things.

Oh ! I know all about it," added Griadys,

with a smile of superior wisdom. " Honor

told me."

"And I know nothing," said Mr.

Wynch, humbly. " Won't you tell me

all about it?"

The child was delighted. She was as

garrulous as an old woman. She began

at once, and went on till they reached the

Eue Bon Secours. Honor yawned once or
twice, but she did not mind much. It
saved her from the necessity o£ talking.
Mr. Wynch must have enjoyed it
thoroughly.

"What a pity mortals have not fern
wands, too !" he said, as the child's tongue
was still at last. And then he looked at
Honor, and glanced over his shoulder at
the pair who were loitering along behind.

Won't you come in ?" said Honor,
with cold politeness, as the loiterers
reached them at last. But Valentine
shook her head, and Stephen declined.
He had engagements for the afternoon
and evening, he said. He whispered to
Honor he would be with her early in the
morning, however. And then he volunteered
to escort Miss Murray " part of her
way home." After she had got into bed,
and long before she went to sleep. Honor
remembered what Gladys had said about
Stephen and Valentine, and a song.

SHORT BUT NOT SWEET.

Some may find and hold them, never to let go,
Hearts that would enfold them in their vital glow —
When Circumstance comes in and works them double

R. MONCKTON MILNES.

TEPHEN AYLMER kept his
word, and presented himself in
the Rue Bon Sec ours very early
next morning. It was before breakfast,
in fact. Honor was up, however,
and at the moment of his arrival was
making hot buttered toast in the kitchen,
such a barbarous English mets being
beyond, or below, or above, Rosaline's

powers. Honor came out of the kitchen
with the toasting-fork in her hand.

Oh, it is you, is it ?" she says, laughing.
" I could not think whose step it
was on the stairs." And she lays down
her formidable two-pronged weapon.

Were you prepared to fight the intruder?"
says Stephen, laughing too.
I was on my way to bathe, and I
thought — " here he wants to say something
sweet — tender; but fails. It is
difficult to be sentimental in cold blood,
the first thing on a bright breezy morning
; it is like eating sugar-plums before
breakfast, or reading a novel at daybreak.
" Here, look at this," he says,
pulling the letter out of his pocket, and
placing it in her hand.

Honor took it, and read it. It was a
kind letter, brief, and to the point. It
contained the offer of an excellent appointment
under Sir Henry Aylmer,
Stephen's uncle, and the Governor of the

P — district. The advantages of this
proposed post were undeniable. It was
in a good climate, and amid pleasant surroundings.
The salary was large, and
there were very few necessary expenses.
The late occupier was retiring on the
fortune he had made in the office. He
might have retired long ago, but that
he was a man of a covetous turn of mind.
The only cloud in this brilliant prospect
(so long as we stay on this side of the
sun, there must always be a shady corner
somewhere), was an enforced seven years'
residence in the above-mentioned district.
This cloud was but a little one,
as Sir Henry Aylmer, who had passed
more years of his life in India than in
England, justly remarked, and need not
stand in his nephew's light. He expected
the young man to join him
early in the following year. Honor refolded
the letter, and sighed as she did
so.

Now I can tell your father," says
Stephen, in a tone of satisfaction. '' I
will ask him to give me a few moments
this very — "

But Honor interposed suddenly.

Oh, not just yet, Stephen," she cried,
clasping her hands together. " Not just
yet. Give me a little time first — I want
to think about it myself — I want — to
make up — my own mind — first," she
said slowly, and the light faded out of
her face as she spoke, and the laugh
shrank away from her eyes and lips ; she
stood before Stephen, a pale, quivering
thing, like a trembling, wind-tossed
flower.

Stephen looked at her in angry surprise.


"Give you time!" he cried. "Have
you not had time all these weeks past?"
He knew the tussle was beginning, and
he wanted to persuade her, and himself,
that it was past. " You are not

afraid of going to India, are you, Honor ?"

Honor was silent.

*' It is no worse than going to Ireland,"
continued the young fellow, persuasively.
Indeed it is far better in some ways.
Your father said so only the other day —
at least I said so, and he agreed. I
thought you were in the room at the
time."

Still Honor was silent.

You knew the letter would come some
day," cried Stephen, growing angry
again. " What have you been thinking
of all this time ?"

Then, at last, Honor spoke.

I have been thinking of the sea-gull,"
she said, in a low quavering voice. " And
oh, Stephen, I do not know yet which
of us was right that day — Valentine, or
I. I wish — I wish I did know !" And
the poor girl looked up at him appealingly.


Stephen turned upon her roughly. " Is

that all you have to say?" lie began,
fiercely. And he looked as if he himself
might have a good deal more to say,
when suddenly the door opened, and Mr.
Carmichael appeared, clean-shaved, and
neat, and trim, and ready for breakfast.
Mr. Wynch followed, with Gladys clinging
to his hand, and still instructing him
in the mysteries of fern wands. It was
astonishing how much he had forgotten
since yesterday.

'* What, Aylmer ! You here, at this
time in the morning ? Are you hatching '
some conspiracy with Honor ? You will
stay to breakfast, of course," cries the
unconscious Mr. Carmichael, whilst Mr.
Wynch glances from one conspirator to
the other (who both look very uneasy),
with his keen, short-sighted eyes ; and
little Gladys nearly lames herself for life
by tumbling over the toasting-fork.

But Mr. Aylmer refuses to stay to
breakfast.

I merely looked in as I passed," he
muttered. *' I wanted to tell Honor
about my Indian prospects. I thought
she would be pleased to hear of them.
'No, I cannot stay now, thank you. She
will tell you all about — about my future —
another time, I daresay," he added, with
rather a bitter smile. Then he took up
his hat, and walked away without another
word.

Mr. Wynch looked after him silently.

He would not stay to breakfast, of
course," sings out Gladys, who is
riding round and round the room on the
toasting-fork, like a little witch on a
broom-stick, " because — because there is
no toast !"

SUSPENSE.

Will it be peace or pain ?
Will it be joy or strife ?
What doth thy hand contain,
Life, for my life ?"

HEINRICH SCHWARZ.

ND SO the long expected letter
had come from India, and the
upshot of it was confusion.
Honor did not know what Stephen meant,
still less what she meant herself. Sometimes
she thought she did know. Sometimes
she fancied she could see her way
clear before her ; matters had arranged

themselves ; difficulties had disappeared ;
she was already bidding adieu to someone
— and that someone — who was it ?
Stephen, or Gladys ? This was the point
at which she staggered. She could get
so far, but no further. She could not
choose between the two, and yet she knew
that one of the two she must forsake.
She was like the sea-gull, in very truth,
now mounting up for a little space, and
whirling round and round for a moment ;
then tumbling back again into the sea of
doubt and perplexity. It was a painfully
uncertain position for a single-minded
maiden.

Mr. Wynch went away on Saturday, ashe
had promised. Before he went he led
the conversation back, once more, to the
subject of the fern wands.

I wish you had one. Honor," he said.
He had always called his Yicar's daughter
by her Christian name, in consideration of
his own position in the parish, and of

her tender age when he had assumed that
position ; but since the day on which she
gave him back the emerald ring, he had
been rather shy of using his privilege.
I wish you possessed a fern wand,
dear."

Why do you wish that ?" asked
Honor, not caring much about the subject
in hand, but languidly endeavouring to
keep the conversation going.

Because — because — I think it would
be useful to you just now", stammered
the poor little man. For all.
his short-sightedness, he could see
which way matters were wending pretty
clearly, but he did not know how
to say what he saw. His thoughts
outran his words, as it were ; he floundered
about, and became almost unintelligible.


'' I don't know what you mean," says
Honor, which was not to be wondered at,
certainly. Astor did she seem to care to

know. She strangled a yawn, and looked
into the shop-windows as she passed.
Mr. Wynch's conversation was apt to
grow monotonous after a time, and a little
of it went a long way.

*' I mean — I wish " resumed Mr.

Wynch, striking out afresh, and glancing
round as he spoke. " What a good thing
it would be if we mortals were gifted
with magic wands, as well as Grades'
fairies. We might choose our friends
more wisely then."

Honor glanced round too. It was the
day they went strolling through the
streets to the cathedral in the upper
town, and the identical moment at which
Valentine had chosen to loiter behind, and
gaze into a bonnet-shop.

I can choose my friends without the
help of a magic wand," began Honor
haughtily, still looking behind her. Then
she turned round with a startled lookin
her eyes, and a flush on her pale

face, and added more gently, '' Did you
come all the way to Pierreport to say this
to me, Mr. Wynch ?"

She tried to laugh, but it was a
miserable failure. Mr. Wynch looked at
her pitifully.

To say this — no, indeed," he cried.
'' God knows I came to say something
very different, but that will keep a little
longer. What I want to do now is to
warn you. Honor. I mistrust your friend,
and I wish you did not trust in her so
much, yourself. I do not think she is
honest. I fear she may bring you trouble,
or give you pain in some way or other.
I have no reason for saying this ? No.
It is merely a feeling. It is wrong then
to give expression to it, you think ?
Perhaps so. But I cannot help it. I
cannot help feeling it — I cannot help
saying it — because I love you. Honor."

It was an unfortunate termination to
an otherwise eloquent speech. Honor had

VOL. II. H

listened to him attentively enough at first,
but as he came to the end, she looked
at him impatiently.

I thought you had promised never to
speak to me like that, again," she said, in a
chill reproachful sort of way. And then
she stopped short, and waited for Stephen
and Valentine to join her, and remained
by their side for the rest of the walk. Nor
did she speak again to Mr. Wynch till
the time came for bidding him good-bye.

After he was gone, the walks went on
as usual, though they never were quite
the same to Honor. She seemed to miss
something out of them, and she could not
tell what that something was. Stephen
joined them still, or Mr. Carmichael
sometimes, and Valentine always. And
yet — "there was something the season
wanted, though the ways and the woods
smelt sweet."

Meanwhile " the ways, and the woods "
were flushing, and blushing all over, and

the days were shrinking a little, dropping
their moments, as the trees dropped their
leaves. Summer was deepening into
autumn. The season of roses was past.
It was no dreary time however. Autumn
in the south is a very different thing
from autumn in the north. There is no
dampness here, no moodiness and decay.
None, or but very few, of those signs of
death, which are so dismal and dreary in
the lands beyond the sea. The leaves
drop, it is true, but they drop to dance,
not to die. The wind pipes them a tune,
and round they whirl away from the
woods aflame with colour, over the fields
alight with gold, up and down through
the warm crisp air in which the breath
of summer still lingers, and to which the
kiss of autumn is so reluctantly given.

Yes, autumn in the south is the year's
sunset, glorious and gorgeous in its
purples and crimsons ; not the melancholy
funeral time it is in the north, when the

H 2

whole earth looks like a big brown grave,
till the winter comes and flings down
upon its bareness a cold white pall of
snow. Honor shivered already as she
thought of the coming winter.

Generally she enjoyed the thought
of battling with the bleak weather, of
feeling her fingers tingle and glow with
frost and snow. But the mere prospect
of winter made her shiver now.
She tried to account for this. She
remembered last winter; how they all
went together to watch the skaters
one day, Stephen being among the
performers, and how he carried Gladys
across the ice on his shoulder, and pushed
Honor about in a chair; and then one
night when they had stayed out late
shopping, and Gladys had gone into
ecstacies over the stars and the lamps.
Next year, the child would be too big to
be carried, certainly, and perhaps would
care less for the stars and the lamps — and

Stephen — Stephen — where would Stephen
be?

When the winter was past, and the
spring was at hand once more, Stephen
Aylmer was to be in India ! That was all
Honor knew.

THE LUMP OF ICE,

"It is always one's good deeds that turn round and
sting us, like wasps." — pascal.

Nor stood one day on the outskirts
of the wood beyond Mont
St. Michel. It was not much
of a wood in point of extent, but
it was rich with various kinds of trees,
and glorious and glowing with every
sort of colour. There were poplars
standing up like churches, and pines
waving their hearse-like heads, and scarlet
cherry boughs, and golden ginqioes, and

lesser trees growing in and out beside
them, flinging their branches down
to the ground, like so many obsequious
Raleigh, and giving a shadow to the
shades, just as the bass notes of music give
substance to the song. It was a revel
of tints, a perfect symphony of colour.

Honor, however, was not listening to
that music. She was standing with her
back to the wood, and her face towards
the little town that lay nestling in the
hollow, kissed by the sun and caressed by
the sea. Such a gay little town as it was,
with its red roofs, and white spires, and
green shutters, flapping backwards and
forwards in the breeze ; and that general
air of sparkle and sprightliness about it
which sea-bound towns always seem to
possess, just as if they were washed daily
in crystallized salt water. There was a
dusty road leading from the town to the
mill, and a bit of rough, upland ground
between the mill and the wood. On this

slope some sheep were feeding. They
stared at Honor in a stupid, sheepish sort
of way : so did a melancholy-looking cow
that was grazing there also. Beyond the
slope, stretched a succession of corn-fields,
bare now and stubbly, with a few scarlet
poppies growing in the hedges, and a
dark, golden-eyed pansy or two peeping
out here and there. There was a little
cluster of cottages at the foot of the
slope, in one of which lived Madame
Pleon, the lady superintendent of the
lady-bathers ; and Honor, as she stood on
the lister of the little wood, fancied she
could hear every now and then the
click-clacking of that mysterious person's
sabots, and the deep tones of her strange,
vibrating voice.

It was not altogether her fancy, though
it might have been so. When one is alone,
one always begins to listen to dumb
voices, and to people deserted villages ;
which is an excuse for Spiritualism, and

would be a proof, i£ proof were needed,
that it is not good for man, much less for
woman, to be alone.

Honor bad been alone some time. She
was waiting for Gladys. Ever since the
time when Valentine had become one of
their daily party, the child had got into a
trick of loitering behind during their
walks, and of running like a little dog
into any door she chanced to see set
open. It was a very tiresome trick, open
doors being much the fashion at Pierre-port.
She seldom, however, lingered
long, and always re-appeared safe and
sound, so Honor was not anxious about
her : only rather tired of waiting. And
to-day she had really been waiting a longtime.


Stephen and Valentine had waited with
her, till they had grown tired too.
Then Valentine had said she would go
into the wood and rest. Mr. Aylmer
might go with her and find her a comfortable

seat, and then return to Honor.
By that means they would know where to
find her when the child rejoined them, and
they continued their walk.

But the comfortable seat must have
been difficult to find, for Stephen had not
yet returned to her.

"Won't you come with us?" they had
said, looking back at her, as they went on
into the wood. But Honor had refused.
The wood, though not large was yet a
complete labyrinth. The trees grew so
thickly together, that she feared she might
lose the child, for a long time at any
rate, if she got entangled in one of those
twisting paths. So she stood without,
waiting.

It was about a week after Mr. Wynch's
departure, and Honor, if she was not
exactly thinking of the curate, was at
least meditating upon something he had
said to her. What did he mean by his
warning ? Why had he made her look

round that day, when they went strolling
along the streets, and Valentine had
loitered behind to gaze into the bonnet
shop, and Stephen had stood beside her,
hitting his stick against the pavement.


That was all she had seen. It was not
very distinct, and yet she could not forget
that glance. It seemed to open up to hera
long vista of vague and sad possibilities.
Words were as trees moving, looks as
birds flitting from bough to bough, with
messages on their wings. The trees were
moving now — nay, talking. Honor could
hear them quite plainly.

"But caring for people often brings
with it more pain than pleasure, after all,"
said a voice, clear and ringing, and
unmistakable. " I often wish I were as
Honor is, so still, calm, and cold. I do
not really think she cares much for anyone
in the world, except little Gladys.
She is not unfeeling, but she does not

feel deeply. She is like a lump of ice ; lie
makes me shiver, sometimes."

For a moment there was no answer to
these rambling remarks. For a moment,
the listener thought the speaker might
perchance be talking away to her alter ego,
or Philo Peter, or whatever may be the
classical and correct term for our other
and inner selves. The next moment,
however, all such thoughts vanished away
like dew before the dawn.

Do you find Honor so very coldhearted,
then ?" responded a second voice,
unmistakable also. "You are not complimentary
to your friend. Miss Murray."

Truth can never be complimentary,"
remarked the first voice. And this didactic
remark, whether true or not, remained
uncontradicted.

Then the sound of footsteps and voices
faded away into silence, and the speakers
had probably wound their way round one
of those twisting, tangled paths, never

knowing low near they had been to
the borders of the wood, nor guessing
how their chance words had floated out
athwart the leaves, and fallen upon
the ears of one who stood without waiting.


As for that one, she stood there still,
silent and calm, and colder than ever. For
she was frozen.

One may as well be what the world
says one is ; and, in this case. Honor had
no choice. She was suddenly and instantaneously
frozen.

When the frost falls upon the flowers,
some of them turn black as death, others
hang their heads and wrinkle up their
faces. But when a human heart turns
to ice, there is only a little shiver, a little
shake, and no one but its owner is a bit
the wiser.

"Valentine was right," said Honor
bitterly, to herself. '' Caring for people
does bring one more pain than pleasure.

It is better, far better, to have a heart
of ice. That, at least, can never be
ruffled, or troubled, until — until — it is
broken."

And the poor girl sank down upon
the grass, and covered her face with her
hands.

WHAT GLADYS SAW IN MADAME Leon's COTTAGE.

She looks up the forest whose alleys shoot on

Like the mute minster aisles when the anthem is done —

Onora, Onora !'
And forward she looketh across the brown heath

Onora, art coming: ?' "

E. BARRETT BROWNING.

Meanwhile, over the stubblefield,
and the straw and the
poppies, a child was running,
and a little voice was calling, " Honor —
Honor, where are you. Honor?"

But Honor, for once, like her namesake
Onora, answered not.

She started up though, as the child
touched her.

Where bave you been all this time,
Gladys?" she asked, in a hollow sounding
voice.

Only into Madame Pl(^on's cottage,"
replied the child, panting. She was
frightened too. Honor looked so strange
and stern. Was she going to faint
again, as she had done that terrible
morning in the bathing-machine?

Madame Pl^on called me — yes, she did.
Honor. I peeped in first, for I wanted
to hear the funny clock strike, and
I saw Soeur Genevieve sitting on a chair,
and Madame Pleon kneeling on the floor
beside her. Soeur Genevieve was crying,
and Madame Pl^on was talking to her.
I could not understand much, but it was
something about a photograph, I think,
for Soeur Genevieve had one in her hand.
And then, by-and-by, Madame Pleon
looked up and saw me standing there,
and called me to her. ' What is the
name of thy sister's friend, petite T she

said, and when I told her ' Valentine
Murray Soeur Grenevi^ve cried out as if
I had hit her, and covered her face with
her hands. And then Madame Pleon
pushed me away, and I had to run off
without hearing the clock strike after
all." The child stopped at length, absolutely
from want of breath, and she looked
up at Honor as if she expected her to fill
up the hiatus.

But Honor showed no disposition todo
so.

What does it all mean ?" gasped
Gladys, after giving her tongue about
five minutes' respite.

'' I don't know, I am sure, dear,"
replied Honor, who, truth to tell, had not
been listening very attentively. The
child was not a little given to relating
highly sensational stories, but as they
usually bore a strong family likeness
to each other, a very small amount of
attention was sufficient to keep one well

VOL. II. I

posted in them. Now, however, Honor
was caught tripping.

I don't believe you have been listening
to a word I have been saying," cries
Gladys, highly indignant. " Perhaps I
had better begin again."

Perhaps you had," says Honor. It
would at least spare her from the necessity
of talking herself.

Not that it did do so altogether.
Gladys adopted the interlocutory style
this time, and asked questions as she
went on. " What did this mean ? And
why was Soeur Genevieve crying ? And
for what reason could Madame Pleon
desire to know Valentine's name ?" Poor
Honor's position of listener was no sinecure
this time. Her answers were almost
as voluminous as the story itself ; and as
second editions have always a tendency
to become more bulky than the first,
there is no saying to what proportions
Gladys' novel might not have swelled, had

not Stephen and Valentine re-appeared
and brought it to a summary conclusion.


'« Why, you naughty little child, where
have you been hiding yourself all this
time? We have been hunting for you
everywhere," cries Valentine, in rather a
nervous, empress manner, as she pounces
down upon the child.

*' Why, you naughty woman, where
have you been hiding yourself all this
time ?" retorts Gladys, pertly. " We
have not been hunting for you, though,
nor hoping for you either."

The child had never learnt to like
Honor's friend.

They went homewards, across the
stubble-field, all walking together, and
none of them talking very much. I think
Stephen made a few remarks appropriate
to the beauty of the evening, and Valentine
answered them. I don't think Honor
spoke at all. It was another silent walk,

I 2

like that one which took place after the
sea-gull episode.

As they passed Madame Pleon's cottage,
Soeur Genevieve came to the door
and looked out after them. Gladys ran
back a little way, but the sister motioned
her on. She did look rather strange,
Honor thought, looking back too. And
then she recalled Gladys' story. The
sister's usually white, ashen face was
flushed and agitated. Her lips were
trembling, her eyes were full of tears,
and yet there she stood in the doorway,
a black nun in a black frame, watching
them, and looking after them, till they
turned an angle of the road, and disappeared
out of sight.

What a very un-unlike face that
nun has," says Stephen. " I don't believe
she can really have been intended fora
convent life. She has far too much
feeling about her."

You seem to take quite a deep interest

in those Brides of the Cliurcli,"
says Valentine, with a laugh. She was
the only one of the party who had not
looked back at the nun.

"About as much as I take in other
brides," replies Mr. Aylmer, gloomily;
and then the subject dropped. They had
started and used up a good many subjects
in this way during their short walk.

When is your friend, Gras von
Reichenau, coming back, Valentine?"
asked Honor, suddenly, as they passed
the church on the hill, and turned into the
Avenue Mont St. Michel. It was the
first time Honor had spoken since they
started on their homeward stroll.

'' I don't know at all," replied Valentine,
with a gleam in her steel-grey eyes,
which was not lost upon Stephen Aylmer.

Who was that you were inquiring
about just now, Honor P" he asked, as
they trudged back along the dingy lane,
having safely deposited Valentine at her

own house-door. " Another recently acquired
friend ?"

*' Not of ours, but of Valentine's,"
replied Honor, in a well modulated voice.
'* He is a Gras von Reichenau, very rich, 1
believe. He was here when we first came
to Pierreport."

Ah ! then you saw him. What is he
like ?" asked Stephen, with more eagerness
than he had displayed on the subject of
the nun.

*' 7 will tell you," interposed Gladys,
bustling up to him. Whereupon she entered
into such a long and minute description
of the Gras as he appeared to her
that morning in the lane, that it lasted
till they reached the Rue Bon Secours.


'' A most grajyliic description," says
Stephen, laughing. '' Only all I can say
is, that if the Gras at all resembles it,
the longer he stays away the better, I
should think. But perhaps you are mistaken

in thinking him a great friend of
Miss Murray's, Honor."

Perhaps so," said Honor, in rather a
tired tone of voice, as they stopped before
the porte cohere of No. 40. " Wish Stephen
good night, Gladys."

But she did not wish him one herself !

Where's STEPHEN?
For the rain it rained every day."

TWELFTH NIGHT.

HAT was the last of the fine
days.

The next morning woke in
tears. The sky was grey, the streets
were greyer still. The little gutters by
the roadside had swelled into rapidly rolling
rivers. It had rained all night. It
looked as if it meant to rain all day.
Indeed, as Rosaline had said, the autumn
rains were beginning, but who could tell

when they would end? Fine weather
must be paid for, just like other good
things, and had it not been a splendid
season hitherto, she asked of Mademoiselle
?

Stephen came in at noon, shaking himself
all over like a great wet dog, and
laughingly telling Honor this was what
the Italians call, " vero tempo (Tamante.^^
Honor laughed too, and helped him to
pull off his wet great-coat. She thought
it was splendid weather. The rain would
do good to the country, she reflected benevolently,
and for her own part she was
not sure she did not like wet days better
than fine ones.

He stayed with them all day, talking
to the Yicar, and playing with Gladys
just as usual. He grew rather restless
as the afternoon drew on, however, and
disappeared somewhat abruptly, before
tea-time.

What a fine fellow he is growing,"

said Mr. Carmicliael, who had seemed
to find an especial pleasure in talking
to the young man to-day. *' I am glad
he has such good prospects, and is
really taking to work at last. Is it
still raining, Honor ? How dark the
sky is. It is just like one of the old days
at home."

Honor, who was standing at the window,
gazing down into the street, looked
round, and smiled acquiescence. Gladys,
however, found occasion to contradict her
father's statement.

In the old days at home, Stephen
always stayed to tea," she said emphatically.
And no one contradicted
her.

He came again the next day, and
the next, arriving later and departing
earlier each time. Valentine never came
at all. It still rained heavily, and indeed
was not weather for anyone to venture
forth.

'' There's Valentine coming down the
street," announced Gladys from her window,
one day. " And she is coming — yes,
she is coming in here."

It was not raining so much that
day. There had been a rest for the
elements in the morning, and about
noon, a pale, sickly gleam of yellowish
sunlight had worked its way through
the clouds. It was a feeble thing,
however, and had soon been caught
and disposed of by the wind. It was
glimmering faintly when Valentine came
in. When she rose to go away it
had disappeared, and the sky was shedding
its cold grim tears once more.

Will you lend me your cloak. Honor
dear ?" she said piteously. '' It looked
so fine when I started that I came out
without either cloak, or umbrella."

Honor fetched her cloak, and Mr.
Carmichael offered an umbrella. But
Mr. Aylmer who had come in during

the course of lier visit, did more. He
volunteered to escort her home, and bring
back the cloak and umbrella to their
respective owners.

"Had you nob better lend Miss Murray
Gladys' cloak?" he said, laughing,
as he watched Honor's well-meant, but
vain endeavours to make the cloak that
fitted her own tall figure hang less like
a court-train round Valentine's small
lithe form.

Honor had better ?io," cried Gladys, in
her shrill piping voice.

"Why not, little Queen?" asked
Stephen amused.

'' Because it is mine, and if Honor gave
away anything that belonged to me, I
should give up loving her. And Valentine
can get home without a cloak, but
Honor could not live without my
love, you know," said the child, fixing
her great brown eyes on Stephen's
face.

'what a conceited little Queenie it
is 1" cried Valentine, stooping down to
kiss the child, who however carefully-eluded
the embrace by hiding her face in
her sister's dress. *' She thinks Honor
could not live without her. Why,
what would you do without Honor,
Gladys ?"

I shall never have to do without her,"
replied the child simply, lifting her face
for a moment ; but with her hands
still clinging round her sister. '' Honor
will never leave me. She loves me too
much."

Stephen looked round at Honor eagerly,
inquiringly. Is that true ? his eyes seemed
to say, but his lips said nothing. And
how could Honor answer a look ? Nay,
what need was there for her to do so ?
Had it not been answered already ? The
child had spoken for her — the child had
chosen.

Stephen looked at her long and

steadily. She made no sign, no movement.
She just stood there with the
child clinging to her skirts. Her head
was bent, her arms hung down straight
by her side. She did not even stretch
out her hand to him. She scarcely
seemed conscious of his presence. She
had the child — always the child, and was
it not enough ? The little figure was
standing between them now.

In another part of the room Valentine
was making her adieux to Mr. Carmichael.


Come along," said Stephen hurriedly.
** There is no chance of the weather improving
— we had best be off."

Then he held the door open for her.
The wind closed it behind them.
They went forth together into the
storm.

There was not much chance of the
weather improving certainly ; but it was
not raining much when they set out.

They had scarcely been gone five minutes,
however, when a terrible storm rose,
lashing the sea into a white fury, and
driving great sheets of water down the
already wet, wind-blown streets. Pierre-port
had seldom or never weathered such
a storm before.

All that night the wind howled round
the town like a dog, and the window of
heaven being open, the windows of the
slightly-built, loose-fitting French houses
testified to the fact, by rattling and
shaking in their frames. All the next
day the rain poured down in torrents,
till the narrow slanting streets became
as so many mountain streams. And then,
later in the week, a fog came on — a
dense, damp mist, under which the town
lay hidden, as by a curtain, for days together,
while over the fisherman's quarter,
there hung a strange heavy smell, far
worse than any amount of fishy fumes.

The fishermen shook their heads, and

crossed themselves, and sighed. No boats
could go out ; no work could be done :
We shall starve," they said, first of all.
And then they said, " We shall die'*
They were a brave race, strong and hardy,
but easily downcast. The priests in
their churches offered up continual
prayers for fine weather. The good
Sisters of Charity trudged hither and
thither amidst the poor, despondent
people. Sickness had already began to
stretch forth its gaunt hand among them,
and there was much want and suffering.
They were dreary, dismal days for everybody.


The Chaplain and his daughters remained
almost entirely within doors at
this time. Honor could not go out
because she had no cloak ; Mr. Carmichael
because he was umbrellaless,
neither of these borrowed articles having
been returned to their owners in the Rue
Bon Secours. Neither was anything

heard of the thieves themselves, as Grades
remarked one day. Perhaps they had
all been lost in the storm, she added,
cheerfully.

The child used to watch for them
at first, flattening her nose against
the window-pane, and grumbling over
Stephen's absence. But all she ever saw
was little Gaspard playing about among
his father's wigs in the shop opposite, and
the sisters going in and out of the
convent across the street.

And even from among these, after the
first few days, she missed her chief friend,
Soeur Genevieve.

'' I cannot think what has become of
everybody," she would say, shaking her
shoulders impatiently. " Soeur Genevieve
never goes out now, and Stephen
never comes in. Where is Stephen,
Honor?"

I don't know, dear," Honor would
answer a hundred times a day.

VOL. II. K

"Where is Aylmer lodging?" said her
father, a day or two later. " I must go
and fetch my umbrella away, since he
does not seem inclined to bring it back."

But Honor did not know Stephen's
address. Hitherto they had met everyday,
and, except in the case of the letter,
she had had no occasion to know where
he lived. She confessed her ignorance to
her father.

'* Then you had better send Rosaline
out to inquire," said her father, shortly.
And Honor did send Rosaline out, but
not to inquire Mr. Aylraer's address, only
to the nearest magasin to buy another
umbrella. There are some things, at any
rate, that can always be replaced.

I wish Stephen would come back,"
grumbled Gladys that evening. " I do so
want some one to play with me."

Won't poor old sister Honor do instead
?" said poor Honor, wistfully. And
in truth she did feel both very old and

very poor, that night— she, who had once
thought in the pride of her heart that
she was so rich in happiness and love.

The child, however, declined the offer
without thanks.

Neo, no," she cried, vehemently, " you
never laugh or play with me now. You
are almost as dull as papa. I want
Stephen. He promised to mend my doll's
leg for me. Where is Stephen, Honor ?"

My darling, I do not know," cried
H nor, heart-brokenly, as she let her face
drop down between her hands.

The child came closer. She pulled
Honor's hands away from her face : she
looked at her gravely with great, curious,
solemn eyes : she whispered in an awed
tone, under her breath —

*' Honor — tell me — is Stephen dead?'^

Poor Honor ! her hands were prisoners :
her face, with its changing colour, was
like a book, which the child could read off
line by line. She tried to say '' No," but

K 2

lier lips refused, for her heart said
Yes." She turned her head away for a
second : then she caught her little sister
up in her arms, and strained her against
her breast. '' I have you still," she cried,
rocking herself to and fro. '' Oh, Gladys,
God is good. He has let me keep you
still."

She knew lie had lost the other. She
knew that Stephen was dead — the
Stephen she had left behind in London,
and who had followed her hither — the
Stephen who had longed to link his future
life with hers, and by whose side she had
once dreamt of living and dying. That
Stephen was dead, for her, at any rate.
She would see him no more. He might
live for another, perhaps — but that — that
was the worst of it all.

How the knowledge came, she never
knew. When David's servants whispered
among themselves, the father knew
that the child was dead. When the little

sister murmured the word, Honor knew
that her lover had left her ; less than
dead in one sense, more than dead in
another. For days she had known he
was drifting away from her. Now she
knew he was gone.

She did not tremble or cry out. She
did not rebel openly against her fate.
Her face grew a little whiter, perhaps :
her ways a little slower and stiller. But
then she was always so pale, so quiet —
that was nothing.

While the child was still sick, David-lay
all night long upon the earth, beseeching
the Lord for his little son. But when
the child was dead, " he arose, and
anointed himself, and changed his apparel,
and did eat bread, and worshipped."

Is there in life a grief greater than this ?
Our eyes may be sore with weeping, our
hearts heavy with fears, but we can bear
it all, and even look up and laugh, while
the child is alive, while still our prayers

may be granted. . . . But to have
to look up to the skies when our star has
fallen, to have to eat bread when the
child is dead, to have to turn our plaints
into praises because our prayers are no
longer needed — this, oh this, is surely the
bitterness of life, by the side of which
death seems sweet indeed.

Was Aylmer in church this morning.
Honor ?" asked the Chaplain on Sunday,
as he and his daughter struggled home
through the wind and the rain.

I did not see him, papa," replied
Honor, catching her breath.

No more did I, though I looked out
for him," returned her father, with rather
a grave face. *'I wanted to see him,
because the old pew-opener told me Miss
Murray's father was dead — had died quite
suddenly on Thursday last ; and I
thought perhaps Aylmer might know
whether this was the case or not."

Colonel Murray dead— on Thursday
last !" gasped Honor, and lier voice went
echoing shrilly through the wind and the
drenching rain, like the wild weird notes
of a pibroch played on some far-away
mountain side.

And in truth it was a lament she made,
and made with reason too — for Thursday
had been the day of the great storm ; and
the last time she had seen or spoken to
Valentine Murray.

^MA

wm^

(^

Soeur Genevieve"'

Everywhere one treads upon graves ; but see, the
grass is strewn with daisies'* — heinrich schwarz.

HEN the Chaplain's door in the
Rue Bon Secours closed behind
them, Stephen and Valentine
went slowly down the long dark staircase,
and out into the streets beyond. It was
not raining much at the time ; but the
wind blew roughly against them, driving
great gusts of blinding mist in their
faces, and impeding their progress not a
little. Stephen opened the umbrella, and
offered Valentine his arm.

They did not talk much. People
seldom do when their hearts are full.
It is best to keep the mouth shut on
such occasions, lest an unexpected word
should cause the heart to overflow. A
remark or two about the rain, or con-concerning
some song they had heard
together, or some chance meeting which
had taken place last night, and that was
all. " You won't have such weather as
this, in India," Valentine had said softly,
as they started. " Nor such a companion
either." Stephen had answered under
his breath. And then they had walked
on in silence — a tall man with a big
umbrella, a little woman nestling under
it, and holding up her cloak. She had
not accepted the proffered arm.

It began to rain heavily again. The
wind seemed to be rising with each step
they took. Yalentine and her cloak
were sources of annoyance to each other.
She struggled, it straggled behind. She

turned a corner sharply, half of it was
left upon the other side. Stephen caught
the flapping ends and folded them round
her.

'' You must let me help you, after
all," he said ; ''or do you really prefer
battling with the elements all alone?"

I have always been alone," she
answered, in a low, sad voice. " I do
not like it, but I am used to it."

Stephen was touched. He was sorry
for the girl, whose lonely life, as he
imagined it, seemed so different a thing
from Honor's love-spread life, as he
thought he knew it. But he said nothing
more. He only drew her hand gently
across his arm.

As they reached the foot of the steep,
narrow, twisting street that leads to
Mont St. Michel, the storm burst in all
its fury.

'' Shall we turn in there, and wait a
little?" said Stephen, pointing to the

nearest house, the door of which stood
invitingly open.

Valentine nodded, and ran np the
flight of steps leading to the door. Just
inside the doorway a little boy was
standing. He had a round, curly head,
and preternaturally solemn eyes. He was
staring up and down the street, as he
murmured out something about *' le pit
Bemy,"^ as Valentine brushed past him.
That young lady however did not listen
to what he said.

The room which she entered was low-roofed
and dark, and struck her as
peculiarly chill and cheerless. Usually
French homes, even of the poorest description,
are full of clatter and chatter,
if not of cheerfulness. But here all was
still, and dim, and dreary. It was impossible
at first to discern anything. By-and-by,
however, (her eyes growing used
to the darkness, as our bodies do to pain,
or our souls to sorrow) she managed

to make out the figure of an old woman
crouching in a corner before a fireless
stove, and in a room beyond, the door of
which was also open, that of a younger
woman, sitting on a chair, with a baby
on her lap. The old woman, who had
thrown her apron over her head, removed
it for a moment and nodded a surly
welcome. The younger woman stared
at Valentine, but took no further notice.
She was rocking the baby to and fro on
her lap ; but she was not singing to it,
as mothers usually sing when they hush
their little ones to sleep. Perhaps it
was asleep abbacy.

The rain splashed on. The little,
solemn-eyed boy still stood in the doorway.
Stephen and Valentine looked
out over his head, at the streaming
streets.

Can't thou not see her yet, Georges ?"
asked the old woman, once or twice from
her stove corner. She spoke through her

apron, and her voice sounded strangely
thick and muffled.

Pas encore, gran^-mere,'^ the boy replied
invariably.

At last he pushed in his curly head,
and announced in a tone of mournful excitement.
" She is coming, gratis-mere.
She is turning down the street from the
Avenue St. Michel. She is near now.
But oh ! she looks so strange, I dare not
call her, grant-mere r and the little boy
ran back into the room.

The old woman rose, and went to the ,
door. Valentine drew further back.
Whoever was coming in was sure to be
as wet as Gideon's fleece.

'' Soeur Genevieve, Soeur Genevieve !"
cried the old woman, waving her hand,
and raising her voice shrilly, till it sounded
above the wind, like a raven's shriek.
*' Come in, come in. I sent for you early
this morning."

"Do you want anything of me?" returned

a soft sweet voice, as it might
be a dove murmuring, outside.

*' Come in," repeated the old woman,
imperatively. *' Little Remy is dead.
He caught the fever yesterday, and died
at daybreak this morning."

At daybreak — this morning," echoed
the voice outside, with a strange, sudden
tremor in it. " Did you say at daybreak
— this morning, mere Duval ?"

'' Yes — yes — at daybreak, or thereabouts,"
muttered the old woman, impatiently.
'^ And his mother has been
mute with grief ever since. Come in and
speak to her, Soeur Genevieve."

Ah ! his mother— his poor mother,"
returned the voice, drearily. " May the
Mother of all mothers, who saw her own
Son die — may our Lady of Seven Sorrows,
who endured all our poor, weak, womanhood's
pangs and pain — now stoop
down, and comfort one more of her
many mourning daughters."

Nay, but you must comfort her too,"
cried the old woman, who did not seem
to be much comforted herself by the
sister's sad, solemn blessing. ''No one
can put the taste of comfort into one's
mouth as well as you can, Soeur Genevieve.
I think you pave the way for
Our Lady."

That is not well said, mere Duval,"
replied the Sister, reprovingly. " It is
always Our Lady who guides the
steps of her daughters. But I will
come to you in the morning. To-night
I cannot. I have still many sick to visit.
See — a long list, and — and I am so tired,
nere Duval," and the poor trembling
voice almost broke down as it spoke.

But one little moment," pleaded the
old woman, in all the selfishness of
maternal love and sorrow. " One little
moment just to lift the dear, dead child
out of its mother's arms. See, how she
sits there, looking at it, as though looks

would give it breath again. Lie will not
let anyone touch it — not the husband that
begat it — not the mother that bare her
as a babe herself. But you will doubtless
prevail. Oh, come in to her, Soeur
Genevieve, come in, and go to her, lest
her life or her reason fail, and I be left
childless in mine old age."

Thus urged, Soeur Genevieve could refuse
no longer. She came up the steps,
slowly and wearily. She certainly seemed,
as she had said, very tired. Her cheeks
were flushed, her lips were white, her
eyes were dim and sunken, and yet in
her face there shone a wonderful light —
a light such as there might be in the
faces of those angels who look down from
heaven on the sinners who repent on
earth. Valentine glanced at her as she
passed.

She did not see Valentine, for the dimness
of the room blinded her, as it had
blinded the girl herself, when she had

first entered the house. She passed on
into the inner room. She knelt down
beside the poor bereaved young mother.
She touched her gently. Then she began
to speak.

'' Dear sister," she said in a sweet
low voice, " dear sorrowing sister, in
the name of the Blessed Mother of all
mourners, let me speak one word of
sympathy with you."

The poor young mother looked round
piteously. Her bosom heaved a little.
She held the child closer against it. But
she said nothing.

I should not dare to speak otherwise,"
Soeur Genevieve went on, "fora
mother's grief is as deep and sacred asa
mother's love, and it seems to me
nothing human can reach, or touch it —
and yet — my sister — there are griefs worse
than yours in the world to-day," and
the sweet, sad voice began to tremble
again.

VOL. II. L

Mere Duval's daughter shook her head.
He will never — walk — now," she said
slowly, as if the world could not contain
a greater grief than that.

But he will fly to meet you," replied
Soeur Genevieve, catching the idea. " He
will welcome you home to heaven, when
all your walking and working upon earth
will be finished — he will be beside you
there always, your dear child-angel.
If he had lived to be a man on
earth, he might have left you. You
might have lost him altogether, perhaps.
People so often lose the very thing they
love best. But a child in heaven is safe.
He cannot stray away from you there.
Oh, poor mothers if you knew all the
trials and temptations of manhood, how
hardly they press, how sorely they harass
and perplex — even you, I think, would
scarcely wish your son to be alive
again "

Thus she talked on in the simple.

soothing fashion that was common to
her, and which had won her so much
love among the rough hard-spoken fisher-folks.
In all their troubles they sent for
Soeur Genevieve, and she came to them
literally with healing on her lips. They
regarded her as an angel, whose song
was, " Peace to the sad ones, health to
the sick, and to the weary, rest !" She
was always so pitiful, so tender, so quick
to see, so ready to help.

But to-day she was even more than
all that. To-day the angel's voice was
hoarse, and yet her song thrilled her
hearer's hearts — she was not only infinitely
pitiful, as her way was, but
thoroughly sympathetic as people rarely
are — to-day she was feeling pain, as well
as seeing it

The poor young mother seemed to
know this too. The gentle words went
straight as arrows to her heart. She
rose a little. She trembled all over.

L 2

Take him, ma soeur' lie sobbed, as she
let the little dead child slip out of her
arms into Soeur Genevieve's lap.

Scour Genevieve bent over the little
waxen face. She made the sign of the
cross on its forehead, and murmured a
prayer. Then she turned to lay it down,
for the last time, in its little wooden
cradle.

In so doing, she caught sight of Valentine
standing in the doorway.

Her face flushed suddenly. Her hands
began to tremble.

She stooped down, lower and lower
still. She laid the little child in its
cradle. She folded its tiny hands across
its breast — they were still enough; but
hers were trembling. She drew the
coverlet across its face ; and then, crossing
the room, she touched Valentine's
shoulder.

Are you — Colonel Charles Murray's
daughter?" she gasped in a low hurried

voice. " If SO — go home at once ; lie —
he — may want you."

Valentine started and turned round.
But before she could speak, Soeur Genevieve
had caught her in her arms, kissed
her once, passionately, fondly, put her
away, and disappeared out of the house,
and down the steps.

It had all happened so quickly, that
Stephen who was still watching the
weather, saw nothing of it. *rare you
frightened ?" he said, suddenly turning
round, and looking with some surprise at
his companion's white face. " The storm
will be over soon, I think."

No — I am not frightened," replied
Valentine, but her teeth chattered as she
spoke. " Did you see that nun ? How
strange she looked. I think she must
be mad. And the child here is dead —
perhaps it died of some infectious fever.
I am afraid of fevers. Had we not better
go home ? Yes, do let us go home, please.

Mr. Aylmer." And she ran hastily down
the little flight of steps.

Stephen followed, and the next minute
they were floundering about in the street
once more, rain-drenched, wind-tossed,
like ships at sea.

Valentine struggled manfully, or rather
manfully for a time. But she fell back
exhausted at last, and Mr. Aylmer was
obliged almost to carry her up the
steepest part of the street, and over the
roughest, bleakest bit of the lane.

He felt a strange tenderness come over
him, as he looked at the girl who
leant against his arm, like a trembling
flower blown there by the wind. It was
a new sensation to him. Honor had
never been frightened, or needed such
support when he was with her ; which on
the whole was lucky, perhaps, for he
certainly could not have carried her in
his arms, as he was carrying Valentine.
Honor was almost as tall as himself, whereas

Valentine was such a little thing, scarcely
bigger than Gladys. He thought of
Honor as he had seen her last, standing
upright, with the child clinging to her
skirts, and the home of love and happiness
closing round her. And then he
thought of Yalentine, beaten and buffeted
about by all manner of storms
and tempests, whose home was neither
loving nor good, as he well knew, and
who was '^ always alone," as she had
said so pathetically of herself.

Will you come in and see my father ?"
said Yalentine, hospitably, as they reached
the garden-gate at last. " He went
out very early this morning, but I daresay
he is back by this time."

Stephen looked down ruefully at his
splashed garments. " I will come tomorrow,"
he said. " Or to-night, if it
ceases raining." Then he unlatched the
little gate, and let her pass through
alone.

HONOR CARMICHAEL,

It did not cease raining, but Stephen
went in, and saw Valentine's father long
before tomorrow, or to-night either.

WHERE STEPHEN WAS.

There's blood between us, love, my love —
There's father's blood, there's brother's blood.
And blood's a bar I cannot pass."

CHRISTINA ROSSETTI.

•

TEPHEN AYLMER had scarcely
turned away from the little
garden-gate, when a sudden
piercing shriek rang out sharply above
the wind and the pelting rain. The
young man stood still to listen. There
was another and another. They certainly
issued from Maison Numero quatre. As the
third cry fell upon his ear, Stephen hastened
back, and pushed open the house-door.

*' What is it ?" lie shouted, groping his
way up the dusky staircase.

But no one answered his shout.

On the landing he paused. The door
of Colonel Murray's salon was closed, but
he could hear within a sound of voices.
The shrieks, whatever they meant, or
from whence they came, had ceased.

Stephen knocked, but his knuckles
received no more attention than his voice
had done previously. At last he ventured
to open the door himself.

The little room seemed to him to be
full of people. It was beginning to get
dark, but he could distinguish plainly
enough the figures of Mademoiselle
Madelon and Madame Pulliot, standing
in the embrasure of the window, with
their noses very close together. There
was a man standing beside them. He
held a letter in his hand at which he
glanced now and then, while the old
women chattered away and nodded their

heads at each other. " It is as I always
said it would be," muttered one. And the
other signalled assent. They both looked
very much perturbed.

Valentine was kneeling beside the sofa.
Her arms were stretched out over it, and
her face was buried in her hands. A
soeur de charity stood beside her. She was
an ugly woman, with gentle eyes, and by
her dress, evidently belonged to the same
convent as Soeur Genevieve. After a
time, she too knelt down beside the sofas
on which lay — Stephen could not make
out at first what it was that lay there — a
shapeless mass — a figure of a man with a
cloak thrown over it — the face of Colonel
Murray, livid, ghastly, with staring eyes
and gaping mouth, but sightless, speechless
for evermore.

It told its own story — a black story on
a blank page. Valentine had snatched off
the cloth which had covered the face, and
read the story shrieking. Stephen was

reading it now. He knew what it meant ?
He knew that Colonel Murray had shot
himself ; had ended by his own faltering
hand the life he had ruined by his own
faithless heart. It seemed to him like a
sudden warning.

He had plenty of time to notice all this,
for no one took any notice of him. The
old women talked together excitedly.
Valentine knelt beside the sofa in speechless,
senseless agony and fear.

His face will haunt me now," said
Madame PuUiot, with a shudder

Mademoiselle Madelon shuddered too.
** I wish Mademoiselle had not uncovered
it again," she said. The man who was
reading the letter looked up.

His mind wandered a good deal, you
say ?" he remarked, in a professional manner,
and Stephen, looking at him, recognized
a certain Dr. Levy, who had dined
with Monsieur le Colonel Murray one
night when he had been there. *' Can you

remember anything he said, Mesdames ?"
Mademoiselle Madelon came to the fore
instantly.

"Every word, Monsieur," she replied
readily. "For a short time after Monsieur
left us, Monsieur le Colonel remained
silent, but he very soon became delirious.
Are you a ghost, Edmee,' he said, clutching
hold of Soeur Genevieve, who was
watching beside him. * I thought it was
all a dream,' he sighed. ' How did you
come here ? Are you alive or dead ? Are
we in heaven or hell ?' Soeur Genevieve
tried to soothe him by repeating a prayer,
but she must have been frightened too, I
suppose, for her voice failed her and she
stopped suddenly, went up to him, and
told him that Soeur Catherine had gone to
fetch a priest, who would be here soon. I
don't want a priest,' he answered, ' I have
confessed and received absolution.' And
then he raised himself suddenly and fell forward
upon Soeur Genevieve's neck, and

when she lifted his head he was dead.
Oh, it was a dreadful ending !" And the
poor little woman seemed to be quite
overcome by the recollection of it.

Ah ! he wandered a good deal, I see,"
said the doctor. " Does it occur to you
that his mind was at all troubled, previous
to this event ?"

Mademoiselle Madelon was about to
speak again, but this time, Madame Pul-lot,
doubtless out of compassion for her
friend's condition, took up the parable.

'* Monsieur !" she said, solemnly. " It
is my belief Monsieur le Colonel was
greatly troubled in his mind of late. He
told me once he had seen a ghost in the
lane. He shook like a leaf when he
received a letter the other day — that very-letter,
in fact, which Monsieur now holds in
his hand. He used to kiss, as if it were a
living thing, that little velvet-covered book
Monsieur found in his breast pocket, and
then throw it away, and then pick it up and

kiss again. He ate nothing. Monsieur is
acquainted with the artistic nature of
Mademoiselle Madelon's plats — Monsieur
le Colonel sent them away untouched.
He drank double, however, to make up.
For the rest, Monsieur knows his way of
life as well as we do. Now "

For the rest, I think, this letter
accounts," said the doctor, interrupting
the garrulous landlady.

'what letter?" asked Yalentine, suddenly,
in a hollow voice.

They all started as she spoke. They
had altogether forgotten her presence.
The doctor was ready, however.

A most amazing letter your father
was evidently reading, just when he met
with this deplorable accidents he replied,
with an emphasis on the last word.

Where is it ? give it to me," said
Valentine.

Not just now, my dear young lady.
It is necessary I should retain it in my possession

for the present," replied the doctor,
kindly. Then, in a lower tone, he added,
Get her away, somehow, Soeur
Catherine."

Soeur Catherine passed her arm round
the girl's waist. " Come'* she said, and
Valentine went. She was stunned and
stupefied, and had no strength to resist.
Madame PuUiot and Mademoiselle macedon
also withdrew themselves.

How did it happen ?" asked Stephen,
gravely, when he and the doctor were left
alone.

*' How do such things usually happen ?"
returned Dr. Levy, looking at him
keenly. "A solitary spot, daybreak, a
flash, a report, and all is finished ; a life
is blown out, like a light in a gust of
wind. This one would have finished this
also, but that the shot missed its aim
was turned aside by the metal clasp of
a little book our pauvre ami carried in his
breast-pocket. And so the end was delayed

for an hour or two ; for what purpose
it were vain to inquire. Soeur
Genevieve and Soeur Catherine, going to
earls mass at Petit Pierreport, found him
lying on the sands, bleeding to death.
One of them came off for me at once,
the other, Soeur Genevieve, watched beside
the wounded man. I brought him
back in my gig, but I knew all was over
for him. I left him here. Other patients
were waiting for me ; mere Duval had
already sent for me twice to visit her
petit fils. That pretty child was dead
when I arrived there, and when I returned'
here Colonel Murray was dead also. That
is all I can tell you. This, perhaps, may
explain the rest," and he placed the letter
in Stephen's hands.

Stephen took it, but hesitated to open
it.

Read it, mon ami,^^ said the Doctor,
busying himself about the corpse. " You
were a friend of this poor fellow's (whose

VOL. II. M

soul the Blessed Virgin release from
purgatory), and his enemies must know-all
soon. Besides, some histoire must
be told to Mademoiselle, and I should
desire you should charge yourself with
that."

Thus urged, Stephen opened the missive.
It was a long letter, written in a
weak, abrupt, pathetic way, which here
and there rose to absolute poetry and
dignity of expression. Stephen read it
through slowly.

Mein Herr Colonel,

'* Herman von Reichenau is about to
be avenged ! Do you start as you see
these words ? Then you need read no
further.

Nevertheless, I must write on. I
will be as brief as I can. But I must go
back a little way into the past in order to
explain the present.

*' My childhood, as you know, was

overshadowed by anxiety concerning the
fate of my only brother — the best-beloved
child of my parents. This boy, who was
many years older than myself, had been
sent to study in France. Whilst there,
he had contracted bad habits, lost a
large sum of money in gambling, and
finally disappeared. All doubt concerning
his fate was, however, solved at last, by
his death at Monaco, under somewhat
disreputable circumstances. I was about
eight years old when this sad event
occurred. ^

The blow killed my mother, and
shortened the days of my father. He
lived, however, till I was eighteen years
of age. During that time he had learnt
some more particulars concerning my
brother's last years. He had been led
astray, poor young fellow. There had
been a tempter, an evil counsellor, a betrayer.
My father set himself to discover
this person. He would have justice, he

M 2

said ; his Herman's memory should be
avenged. With his dying breath he
charged me to pursue the same
course.

I was young and inexperienced, and
scarcely knew more than the name of the
village in which my brother had lived.
I journeyed thither, however, but met
with little success. All the people who
had been there in his time seemed to be
either dead or gone. The matter was
forgotten.

The pasteur with whom my brother
had lived was dead. His servant, Pierrot
Pleon by name, was dead also. This
man, to whom certain suspicions were
attached, had gone off to sea about the
time of my brother's disappearance.
He had returned since, married, and
died, but no one knew where his
widow lived. It seemed a hopeless
task.

*' Nevertheless, I pursued it unremittingly

for ten years, more ; indeed, until
the very moment I met you in Paris in
the spring of this year. You will remember,
Herr Colonel, the strangeness
of that encounter. You heard my name,
and spoke to me. Your daughter was
with you. It was a fatal moment for
both of us.

You will remember how we talked
of the old days, and you told me of my
brother's life with the pasteur of Belle-fontaine,
how dull it was, and monotonous,
how easy it would have been for anyone
to gain an influence over him, and
lead him into evil ways. You promised
to help me. We swore together that
Herman von Reichenau should be
avenged.

You will remember how you told
me you had warned my brother, and
had striven to win him back by counsel
and help ; how you too had been a
sufferer by his misconduct. And then,

by degrees, you unfolded to me the
amount of his debts to you. It was
large — enormous, but it must be paid;
my father would have wished it. These
were debts of honour, and must needs be
paid, even though Schloss Keichenau
had to be sold to furnish forth the
money. They have been paid ; you know
how.

*' You will remember my love for
Valentine — how foolish — how mad I was
about her. She did not love me ; no, indeed
; she mocked and jeered at me day
after day. But that did not matter, so
long as I might love her.

It is all over now, past as a dream at
dawn. And the only scrap of comfort in
it is, that she will not suffer as I am suffering.
Perhaps, indeed, she will even be
glad.

It has all happened so strangely.
Such great things hang on such little
points. A single thread will unravel a

whole web, if only one can get hold of
the right end.

''I did not seek this thread. It fell
into my hands in the strangest manner.
We had left Paris, and were now together
at Pierreport. You had promised to
give me Valentine, but before I married
her, I felt mj brother's debts must be
paid. Part of the property must be sold
for that purpose. I saw that clearly. It
cost me something to decide this, but it
must be done. We settled to travel to
Frankfort together, and make the necessary
arrangements. Do you remember
the morning we started? The sun was
shining, Valentine was singing, we
strolled up and down the lane, listening
to her. By-and-by you turned away, and
I remained alone.

Somehow, suddenly, as I turned
round, I stumbled up against a countrywoman,
who was passing through the
lane, with a basket under her arm. The

basket was over-turned, and some of its
contents fell out, a letter among the rest.
I picked it up, and offered it to a young
English lady who happened to be passing
by at that moment (how well I remember
it all !) but she refused it. I then glanced
at the direction. It was addressed to
Madame Pl^on. I saw no further ; the
name Pl^on seemed to burn into my
brain. It was the name of the man who
was said to have ruined my brother's
life, and destroyed the peace of my
home — the name that was now, alas !
about to rob me of the love of my
heart.

*iran after the woman, and restored
to her her letter. I spoke a few words
to her, but she seemed scared and frightened,
and I had not time to say much.
You called me at that moment, and we
travelled away together, and put the
finishing stroke to our business. I said
nothing about it, but all the time the

name Pleon, Pleon, kept ringing in my
ears. I don't know why I said nothing
about it. I certainly had not the smallest
suspicion of the truth then.

When you left me to return to Pierre-port,
I went back once more to Belle-fontaine.
I had been there so often
before, I scarcely hoped to make any
further discoveries this time. But having
a clue to any matter is like knowing one's
way out of a labyrinth. I had found the
right key; the difficulty was to make it
turn in the lock, which had grown so
old, and stiff, and rusty with the lapse of
years.

I went to work at once. I described
Madame Pleon's appearance, and her
manner of speech, which was undoubtedly
that of the people round. They, too,
seemed more disposed to help me this
time. They hunted up and gave me the
address of Madame Pleon's sister, who
had formerly been a servant at the village

inn, and was now married to an plane
on the Marseilles station. She might help
me, they said.

Thither I went, and there I found a
prosperous mere de famille, who yet had
not forgotten her maiden days. Her
mother was dead, and her sister too, she
had thought. Still, the person I described
must resemble greatly her dear Josette.
Was Pierreport a very long way from
Marseilles ? She remembered Mon, oh
yes. He was a good, stupid dolt, but
he had saved her mother's life at the
cost of his own, and she loved his memory
for that.

She remembered the young German gentleman
who had studied chez M. le pasteur
Berry er ; and here she looked sympathetic.
She remembered the Englishman, who
had lodged at the * Lion door ' at the same
time, and here words seemed to fail
her.

At last the truth came out — the truth.

that is, as far as she knew it. It was not
Pleon who had been to blame about the
sum of money which was lost. It was
not Pleon who had led the German boy
into low company and evil ways, who had
taught him to gamble and drink, and break
his parents' hearts. Pleon would be incapable
of such things. He was stupid,
but he was honest.

He might have been implicated in the
matter in some slight way, perhaps, for
the arch-tempter himself, in a man's form,
was lodging that year at the ' Lion door,' ^
and working mischief amongst them all.
It was he who had led my brother astray,
he who had hinted most frequently at
poor Pleon' s guilt, and who helped him
eventually to a berth on board some
merchant ship ; and his name was — Colonel
Murray. I can scarcely write it even
yet.

The web was unravelled. Truth was
staring me in the face, and yet I could not

bring myself to believe it. Madame
Picton's sister saw my doubts. She had
another proof. She showed an old
stamped letter, which she had picked up
one day at the ' Lion door.' 'I tied up
some ribbons in it once she said, ' and
when I untied them again, Josette saw
the paper, and bade me keep it.' This
letter was written in French, but
addressed to a well-known Polish patriot.
Its purport was to explain the writer's
inability to advance further sums to a
cause he had already served, ' both by his
arm and his purse.' It requested the
recipient to find a sailor's post for a young
man, whom it was desirable to remove
from his present situation. It was dated
Lion door, Coulanges, January 21, 18 — ,
and signed by a signature which had
become well known to me within the last
few weeks.

*' I could doubt no longer. Even
Madame Pleon, to whom I paid a flying

visit three nights ago, showing her your
photograph, which Valentine had given
me in happier days, even her strange
looks and manner, and hasty incoherent
words, were scarcely needed to confirm
her sister's statement. I knew all now.
I knew that a fraud had been practised
on me, that I had been called upon to pay
false debts. I knew I must relinquish my
beloved Valentine. That was the
bitterest part of all. But my brother's
betrayer could never be my wife's father.
My own father's spirit would stand
up before the altar, and forbid the
union.

' I am glad,' Madame Pleon had said,
that night. And then she said, 'I am
sorry. You must not expose this badman.
Monsieur. The memory of the
dead wants no clearing, because he who is
dead was never doubted by those who
loved him. But the living may be pained

still. There is one — still — oh, jeune
Monsieur, for her sake, be silent.'

*' Who did she mean, mein Herr
Colonel ? Can you guess ? Was she
alluding to my best-beloved Valentine?
I scarcely think so ; and yet, for her sake,
for her whom I shall love eternally, but
see no more on this side of the grave, I
will be silent, and my brother's blood
shall be avenged by my own bleeding
heart.

'' I will be silent, but on one condition
only, namely that you return to me immediately
that sum of money which was
wrung out of me under false pretences.
That sum was handed over so recently,
you cannot yet have disposed of it. I
give you fifteen days from this date.
Should the transfer not be made within
that period, I shall not consider myself
bound any longer to withhold my vengeance,
or restrain the course of the law.
This, at least, you cannot deem unreasonable

on the part of one you have so
deeply wounded as

Otto von RFiiOHENAU."

When Stephen came to the end of this
letter, it seemed to him as though he had
travelled a long distance, and seen someway
into other peoples' lives. " And this
is the end," he said, looking down at the
dead man. " He must have been hard
pressed, poor fellow. Did he say nothing
sensible and collected before his
death ?" he asked, going back, and
gathering up the story, bit by bit, as a
wave of the sea will go flowing, backwards
and forwards, before it covers up
the whole of the beach.

He said nothing but what you heard
Mademoiselle Madelon repeat just now,"
replied the doctor, who had been in and
out of the room many times during that
long journeying of Stephen's thoughts.
He may, of course, have uttered a sentence

or two as be lay bleeding to death
on the sands, but they must have been of
the same nature, and Soeur Genevieve,
whom I questioned on this point, seems to
have heard nothing, or at least to have
understood nothing. Poor soul, how ill
she looked to-day. I am glad she consented
to go back to the convent, and
leave Soeur Catherine to finish her sad
work here. She is the best nurse in
Pierreport, and I don't want to lose her
just now, when the sickly season is
commencing. But this — this was an
accident, you understand," added the
doctor, abruptly. And as he spoke he
nodded to the door, behind which Valentine
had disappeared.

Stephen nodded too. He understood.

You will come with me, and see it
done," said the doctor. And so it
chanced that Stephen Aylmer and Dr.
Levy were the only mourners who
followed Charles Murray to his unconsecrated

grave in a foreign land. It was
the night of the great storm, and the
wind howled, and the' rain came pelting
down, but louder than all sounded the
hollow thud of " ashes to ashes, and dust
to dust," as the earth fell in upon the
suicide's coffin

The next day Stephen and Valentine
met again. He had gone up to inquire
after her, and Madame Pulliot, meeting
him on the stairs, had ushered him into
the salon, where the girl sat alone. She
was dressed in a hastily-made black dress,
out of which her face looked white and
changed ; and she was turning over a pile
of papers, in a hopeless, dreary sort of
way, when Stephen entered.

I cannot understand them," she said,
looking up to him pitifully. "They seem
to be all bills." Mr. Aylmer took the
papers out of her hand.

"May I look at them?" he said,

VOL. II. N

gently. *' I should like to help you if
I could."

"I do not know," she said, faltering,
I think perhaps I ought to make them
out by myself. I am more alone than
ever now, you know."

"Not more alone!" cried Stephen,
passionately. *' Say less alone, Valentine.
Come with me to India, and help to make
my life there less lonely than it promises
now to be."

Afterwards, when these two '' made
out " the papers together, it was found
that they were not " all bills," as Valentine
had imagined. The larger and more
pressing claims had all been defrayed out
of the Gras's money. The remainder had
been expended upon Valentine's so-called
trousseau. It was well, perhaps, after
all, that she should have secured a
husband upon whom to bestow the results
of so much pain and sorrow, anxiety and
foresight.

HOW THE NEWS GAME.

Not a word to each other : we kept the pace
Neck to neck, stride to stride, never changing our,

places'* ROBERT BROWNING.

HE rain ceased at last ; '' the
foundations of the deep, and
the windows of heaven were
stopped;" fair weather came round again,
as most things will, if we wait long
enough for them.

Shall we go and see Valentine ?" said
Honor to Gladys, the very first day they
went out after " the rains." '' Her

N 2

father is dead, you know. She might
like us to go to her."

No, no !" replied the child quickly.
I don't want to see Valentine. Let us
go to the souS'prefefs garden." And to
the fious-prefef s garden they went.

It was not an attractive spot. There
was a staring white house at one end,
with green shutters, and innumerable
balconies, and a big tricolor always
floating from the roof ; and then, in front,
a stiff trim garden, full of paths that led
nowhere, and mouldy-looking grottoes,
and noseless statues, damp, moss-grown,
and meaningless. Gladys flitted about
this dingy place, like a sunbeam that had
lost its way in a cavern. Honor sat down
on a bench under an acacia tree, and
watched the waves as they came rolling
in, ridge upon ridge, furrow after furrow.
Was it pain or joy that they were rolling
towards her ? Somehow she felt strangely
expectant to-day.

Suddenly Gladys came flying back
to her sister.

Stephen is here — and Valentine is
here," she panted. " They are coming
down the path to the acacia-tree. They
are walking together, arm in arm."

Honor started up from her seat as the
child spoke. Her face was very white;
her lips were trembling. " Let us go
away," she gasped. '' No, I mean let us
go on — and meet them."

Whichever she meant, she had no
choice now. Stephen and Valentine were
close at hand by this time. She could
have touched either of them by merely
stretching out her arm. They did not see
her, however, being entirely engrossed
with their own thoughts, and they would
both probably have passed her by unnoticed,
had not little Gladys rushed upon
them.

Stephen, Stephen," she cried, clasping
her hands round the young fellow's

knee, and holding him fast. 'where
have you been all this time, and why
have you never come to mend my doll's
leg ?"

Stephen thus accosted, stopped short,
and looked up. He hated a scene, but he
expected one now, had been expecting
one in fact ever since that day last week,
when by his tongue as well as by his lips
he had made such an event probable.
He only hoped it might be a short
one.

Honor however stood up still and calm.
Her hands were trembling a little, but
she had them together in her muff, so
that was of no consequence. She was
greeting Valentine quietly and coldly.

Are you very much surprised, Honor
?" said that young person excitedly.

'surprised at what?" asked Honor
pitilessly.

To hear — to see — Mr. Aylmer and me
walking together thus." Something in

Honor's manner seemed to suppress her
foolish excitement. It was like the sea,
with its swelling silence and deep undercurrents,
swallowing up and drowning
the little babbling stream that ran with
it. " We were coming to tell you about
it this afternoon, were we not — Stephen ?"
(she had the grace to pause a little before
uttering the name). '' Or perhaps you
had guessed already ?"

Stephen did not answer. He was
bending down and talking to Gladys ina
rapid, meaningless sort of way, much
resented by the child. He did not even
look at Honor.

Women are braver in many ways than
men are, I think. Their vanity maybe
mortally wounded, their hearts ache
wearily, their love lie bleeding, aye dying
before them, and yet they will draw
themselves up to their full height, and
triumphing in their woman's empire,"
will trample the dead love under foot.

and throw the dust in the eyes of the
passers by. Honor could have faced
the world at such a moment. She
was fighting, it is true, and fighting
single-handed ; but she had about her
the calm conscious dignity of a conqueror.


No, I did not guess'' she said coldly
and quietly. '' I never should have
guessed, I think ; but I wish you joy all
the same."

Honor is in one of her chest moods,"
said Valentine to Stephen as they turned
away. " Perhaps she thinks we ought
to have told her sooner."

Perhaps !

But more likely she was too much
bewildered to think, too much stunned to
feel ; for the Great Physician is merciful,
and as we pass through the terrible
operations of life — as, one by one, some
such awful wrenches have to be made —
He administers to us a sort of mental

chloroform, whereby our sense of pain is
deadened for a time.

But oh ! the awakening out of that
chloroform — oh ! the gathering of oneself
together, as it were, when the sedative
of the shock has passed away. That is
the moment of agony, interest, supreme,
most terrible. And yet, we who
live, hold life, even life born of anguish,
better than death — sweet and painless
though it be. The Laplander rubs his
frost-bitten hand with snow, till it throbs
and tingles again, for he knows that
aching is a proof of life. The numbness
signified death. It is true, but strange,
that we would rather be alive to suffering
than dead to pain — rather wake and work
than sleep on in the stillest, sweetest,
soundest dreams. It is strange, but
true, for it is a sign that man's soul can
never die ; it is a proof, not only by faith,
but also according to the law, of man's
immortality.

Honor however might sleep on a Httle
longer. Her time for waking had not
yet come. The snow had not yet fallen
wherewith she should rub back to life
that poor frost-bitten heart of hers.

You must tell papa where we went
to-day, and who we met," she said to
Gladys suddenly that evening. It was
an unusual suggestion on her part. They
were not, as a family, much given to discussing
the little events of their every day
life.

Mr. Carmichael looked up from his
book. He was not much interested in it.
It was a translation of some modern
French philosophical work, and Mr. Carmichael
disliked translations. He always
regarded the translator in the light of a
dishonest tradesman, who not only merely
skims the surface of his work, without
stirring up the sense that lies underneath,
but also dilutes it with a plentiful supply
of his own watery thoughts. Such translations

always seemed to him like a bottle
of German waters, which, have been
corked up, and sent spinning over land
and sea, till their virtues are well-nigh
danced out of them. But if one is too
great an invalid to travel, and yet desires
to drink of these healing springs, what
else can one do ? And if one is lame in
French, and yet desires to get alongside
of the literature of the nation, how can
one manage it, except by the help of such
crutches as these ? Mr. Carmichael was
accordingly condemned to the use of
crutches.

Gladys told her story simply enough.
Her father listened carelessly at first, but
more and more attentively as the child
went on, " Yalentine was all dressed in
black, you know, but she did not seem
very sad, for she was talking to Stephen
as she came walking along, and hanging
on his arm. They neither of them saw us
at first, but I caught hold of Stephen's

leg, and made him stop. Then I asked
him where he had been all this longtime,
but he would not tell me — but — but
Valentine told Honor, she was going to
marry Stephen, papa."

'' To marry Stephen." repeated papa,
with a start that seemed to send all his
old blood rushing into his face. " I
hoped — I fancied — I mean I thought —
they were thinking of someone else — both
of them."

so Fearful WERE THEY OF INFECTION.

And every evening when she said her prayers,
She prayed to be delivered from the sin,
Of loving aught on earth with such a love."

PHILIP VAN ARTEVELDE.

T is curious how soon we get
used to pain. We kick a little
at first, but we soon learn to
keep our legs still, till at last it is only
some rare and unexpected pleasurable
emotion that can cause us to start, and
spring up on our feet once more.

Honor's sleep lasted some time. She
seemed to be in sort of mesmeric condition.

She felt it herself ; but she could
not help it. Gladys felt it too, and tried
to wake her up, by a hundred pretty
childish ways and wiles. But she failed.
Nothing roused Honor, nothing interested
her now. The father was asleep too. It
was a dull time for the little one.

At last, one day, she found a subject
that roused them both ; at any rate fora
time.

*' Honor, Honor, little Gaspard is
dead, and they have come to carry him
away !" she cried, running into the
breakfast-room one bleak, black, December
morning. Her father and his book
were already assembled at the table, and
Honor was standing up, and pouring out
the coffee.

Please turn my seat, Honor. I don't
like to look out. They are carrying him
away in a box, Rosaline says. And may
I have some jam with my bread-and
butter?" the child went on, stringing

her thoughts together like daisies, and
taking up her position with her back to
the window, and opposite her usual seat.

Honor put down her coffee-pot, and
silently moved her little sister's cup and
plate from, one side of the table round to
the other. Then she went to the window,
and looked out.

The coiffeur's shop was shut, and a
large piece of black cloth was nailed
across the door. At the moment Pere
Francois, the kind-faced priest of the
parish, was creeping in under the black'
barrier. He lifted it for a second, then
let it fall behind him.

Poor little fellow," said Honor, going
back to her seat. " He must have died
rather suddenly, for I saw him playing
outside the shop only a day or two
ago."

He died yesterday," said Gladys,
authoritatively.

"How do you know, dear?" asked

Honor. Her thoughts were wandering
away from the dead child already.

Rosaline told me. Something grew
in his throat; and it swelled, and it
swelled, and at last it strangled him.
And Lili's little brother had the same
thing in his throat, and he is dead too,"
continued the child, conversationally.

In his throat !" cried Honor, shrilly,
while something vague and terrible
seemed suddenly to rise and swell in her
own throat. '' What could it be in his
throat, Gladys?"

They called it by some long name,"
replied the child, delighted to have found
a topic of conversation at last. " Dip —
dip — no, I can't remember the rest, but
they will tell you if you ask them,
Honor."

They— who ?"

Rosalind and Lili. She is in the
kitchen this morning, too."

In the kitchen — and her little brother

dead of diphtheria !" cried Honor, wide
awake now. " Papa, papa, did not my
brother Ted die of diphtheria ?"

Mr. Carmichael, who was still limping
along on his crutch-like translations,
looked up slowly. It was the first time
in her life that Honor had ever roused
him from his reading. " Yes, my dear,"
he said, in answer to her question, and
his voice shook as he spoke. He had
not heard the foregoing conversation.

It is here now — diphtheria, I mean,"
cried Honor, scarcely knowing what she
said, or what she meant. " Rosalind's
niece, who is in the kitchen at this
moment, has just come from a house in
which her little brother lies dead of it."

"Well, my dear, you had the illness
too, when — when your brother had it.
I do not think you will take it again,"
said Mr. Carmichael slowly.

No — no — not I, papa — but Gladys,"
cried Honor, in despair.

VOL. II.

The father started. Of his two girls,
Gladys most resembled his dead boy; of
the two perhaps he loved the little one
best.

Send the woman here," he said,
sternly. " By God's help, that scourge
shall not come near us again."

Honor caught up Gladys, and bore her
away to the salon, and shut her up thereto
the child's grand disappointment, who
wanted to see and hear the end of her
best and most successful conversational
experiment. Then Honor rushed away to
the kitchen.

She found Rosaline sitting on the floor,
her cap off, which is always a sign of
grief among people who are ordinarily
capped. On her lap there lay a little
pink pinafore, and beside her knelt Lili,
weeping abundantly.

*' EJij le pit marmot— eh ce Jleaii
terrible which has come amongst us,"
moaned the warm-hearted Frenchwoman,

rocking herself to and fro. '' Half the
mothers in Pierreport are weeping for
their dead children. There is mere
Duval's daughter mad with grief at the
loss of her little one, and now, my own
sister, bereaved of her Violet. Ah ! if
Mademoiselle had but known him, Uni enfant
si doux, si gentil. Why the last time I saw
him — only the last time, he clambered
upon my back, and asked me to give him
a pink pinafore like that of Mademoiselle
Glance — eh le pauvre petits And here
the devoted aunt was quite overcome, and
compelled to wipe her eyes on the said
little garment.

Here Honor who had listened sympathetically
enough at first, broke out indignantly.


Gladys, Gladys ! Mademoiselle Gladys !"
she cried. *' You have dared to mention
her name, and yet you have brought
infection into the very air she breathes."
And then she lost all control over herself,



and poured forth the vials of her
wrath, and commanded Rosaline to appear
at once in her father's presence.

The Frenchwoman stood up in sheer
astonishment. '' Mademoiselle me fait des
injures'' she said, flinging the pink
pinafore across her shoulder like an on-flame.
" If Mademoiselle Griadice could
only take infection from that blessed
angel now in heaven, then Mademoiselle
Glance were safe indeed. The child has
been buried a week, and Lili had not
seen him for more than a month before
his death. She brought me the news, it
is true, but they came to her by means
of a letter written to our aged mother,
with whom la fillette has been living for
some weeks past. Tenez, void la lettre.
Mademoiselle can judge for herself
whether I speak the truth or not."

Honor felt ashamed of her angry
words.

'' No, no," she said, pushing the letter

away. " You must forgive me, Rosaline;
I was frightened — I did not understand.
My only brother died of diphtheria, and I

feared for Gladys "

^'Soyez tranquille, mademoiselle,^^ interposed
Rosaline, sympathetically. ''Le hon
Dieu can never want to take away from
us all the beautiful things in the world ;
and has He not gathered to Himself mon

Violet r

To do Rosaline justice, she was almost
as much devoted to Gladys as she had
been to poor little ' Violet. She would
cheat her master, and tell any number of
lies with or without reason, but she was
true to her nature in her passion for children.
There is always something strangely
winning and attractive to French folks
in those small specimens of the coming
race. Nothing is too good for them ;
nothing is ridiculous that is done for the
sake of un hebe. The petroleum, blind to
all judgment and dead to all faith, was yet

not dead to the cries of a little child lying
alone and forsaken on the blood-stained
stones of Paris. Prince Raoul will leave
his wine untouched and his cigar unlighted,
to stump round the room at the
bidding of little three-year old Boh Gros-jean,
or will forsake the side of the fair
young girl he means to make his beautiful
second wife, to mince up the dinner
of pretty, houclee, motherless Marie. In
all classes, from all natures, the same love,
the same devotion. Of his own nation,
verily, and of his own nation only, are
Victor Hugo's lines true —

Lorsque Infant parait, le cercle de famille,
Applaudit a grand cris : son doux regard qui brille
Fait briller tous les yeux."

Papa," said Honor, returning to the
salon, and finding her father still sitting
at the table with his head bowed over his
book. " I was wrong. I was mistaken.
The little girl whom I thought had just

come out of an infected house, has not
been near it for weeks."

Ah !" said the father in a tone of
satisfaction. Strange, dreamy, absorbed
man as he was, he felt as if a load was
slipping off his heart. " That is well.
You do exaggerate a little sometimes,
Honor, I think."

Exaggerate ! of course she did. For
what is anxiety but exaggerated love ? and
what is love — maternal love, at any rate,
but one long course of exaggerated
anxiety ? Only there are some folks who*
never know either the one or the other.

AT MADAME MER E S.

* True,' say the children, ' it may happen
That we die before our time.
Little Alice died last year — the grave is shapen
Like a snowball in the rime.' "

E. B. BROWNING.

Half-an-hour later, Gladys
having been released from
durance vile in the salon, and
Honor having thrown off her anxieties and
resumed her comatose condition, the sisters
passed through the ;ponte cohere,
and sallied forth for a walk. It was one
of those bleak black mornings that always
betoken snow. The sky was heavy and

leaden looking, the pavement was dry and
hard, while as for the wind, it cut one to
the quick, like a foe in one's household,
who always chooses the weakest moments
and the most defenceless spots upon which
to make his attack.

How cold it is," said Gladys shivering.
" Is this the winter. Honor?"

Yes, dear," replied Honor, thinking
the fact sufficiently patent, without further
explanation.

"But you said we should go home in
the winter. Why don't we go?"

We shall go soon ; when Christmas is
past and the New Year has come, we shall
be back in London. Are you so anxious
to go home, Queenie?"

Of course I am ; I am tired of Pierre-port,
and so are you. Honor, I know."

Was she ? Honor did not know herself.
Pierreport was a bitter place, cruel and
cold, and full of broken dreams and
drowned hopes ; but home — home to the

willow-tree where the tea-table stood;
horae to creeper-twined verandah, beneath
which that kiss had been given and taken ;
home, whither Stephen would never more
come, never more be waited and watched
for — was not this worse, far worse ?
Honor could not tell. Pierreport, stamped
with cruel associations ; home hung round
with pictures of vanished hopes, and
peopled with shadows of unforgotten
things. She knew not which was bitterest
— no, not she.

"What is Gaspard doing now?" asked
Gladys, suddenly. " Do you think that
he is talking to that dead brother of mine,
of whom you spoke to papa just now ?"

Honor started. She had been thinking
of love whilst the little one had been
dreaming of death. And yet there was
nothing incongruous in it. Have not
the two been wedded since the beginning
of the world? For had love —
earthly love — love of woman never been,

then death — human death — had never been
either.

Gladys repeated the question. Honor
was puzzled for an answer.

I do not know, dear," she said, at
length. " That is just one of the things
God has not given us to know."

"I don't want to hnow,^^ returned the
child, impatiently. " I only asked you
what you thought, Honor."

Honor looked down at the bright face
upturned to hers. " It is very difficult,"
she said, " more difficult, perhaps, to explain
than to understand. But my
thought is something like this. When
you are tucked up in your little bed at
night, Gladys, and I go away into the
next room, you cannot see me, you know,
but you believe I am there, and you can
guess what I am doing. And so with our
dear dead friends; we do not know
exactly whither they are gone, because our
eyes cannot follow them, but we hope and

believe they are in heaven. And as you
do not cry after me when I leave you
alone in the dark, so neither should we
mourn hopelessly for those ' that die in
the Lord.' Do you understand so far,
Queenie ?"

"Yes— yes," replied the child, quickly.
*' Only, of course, I do not cry after you
when you go into the next room. Honor,
because I know what you are doing ; you
are mending your gloves, or putting the
chairs tidy after I have been romping.
And I can tell exactly how you do it,
because I know how everything stands
in the room. But I do not know what
the place is like where Gaspard is, so
how can I guess what he is doing ?"

*' Supposing, then, that papa was in
Paris, or in some other beautiful place
you have never seen ; and supposing he
sent for me one day, and I went to him,
and left you, when I was gone, you
would not forget me altogether, would

you, darling ? No, you would think
of me sometimes, and would try to
imagine what I was doing, and try to
guess what that beautiful place might belike

"

Oh, I should not try to guess, I
should know'" interrupted the child, with
a great light shining in her eyes. " If
Paris is such a beautiful place, it must
be just like St. Mark's Road when the
lamps are lighted, only there should be
no poor people there, and the gardens
should always have flowers in them, and
the sky should never be foggy, but full of
Hight, like the sea. And I should know
what you would be doing too. Honor.
You would be walking with papa, and he
would have given you a new dress to
wear, and some beautiful shining jewels
too, perhaps, and then sometimes you
would think of me, and blow me a kiss
with the wind. Am I right. Honor ? am
I right?" said the child, pushing up her

small bright face, and shaking Honor's
hand in her eagerness for an answer.

But Honor could not answer just
then. Her whole being seemed to be
thrilled by the child's words. She did
not like to hear her little sister talk like
this, and yet she was strangely moved
by it. It was unnatural, she thought.
Not that it was in reality, but it seemed
so to Honor. Intelligent town-bred
children often think and talk after this
fashion. I don't know that country
children do. But then, there is always
less poetry, because there is always less
suffering in the country than in the
town.

Poetry of a certain kind, I mean, of
course, dear people who are starting up
indignantly at this statement. You see
it all depends upon one's views of the
matter. If, by poetry, you mean a
smooth, soothing sedative, full of buzzing
bees and swelling seas, and verdant vales

and slugs and snails, then put yourself
into the train, and steam away from the
town, and its fog, and its smoke, and its
life, and its labour. You will not find
what 3^0 u want here.

But if, by poetry, you mean " people —
helping words," sounds like clarion-notes,
calling men to battle for right and trample
wrong under foot ; if by poetry you
mean music that thrills the coldest, and
kindles the dullest, and opens the closest
heart, then seek for it in the town ; in
some spreading, overflowing, over-crowded
town, which, with all its toil and turmoil,
is yet a type of that Great New City
wherein shall be room and rest for all.
Just as earth, grave-strewn, is a symbol
of Heaven, the Home of the risen ones ;
or as our death here is a sign of our life
there.

Meanwhile, the innocent suggested of
this digression was eagerly awaiting her
answer.

Am I right ?" she said. " Can't you
tell me, Honor ? Must I wait till I get
there to know ? How long shall I have
to wait, I wonder ?"

My darling — my darling — do not say
such things !" cried Honor, huskily.
And then she caught the little one's hand
in hers, and began walking very fast.
It is going to snow," she said. " We
must make haste home." And as she
spoke a few flakes fell.

It is beginning already," cried Gladys,
capering about. " I like the snow ; it
always looks like something good to eat."
And the little gourmande opened her
mouth wide.

The storm came on in earnest. The
sisters were as warm as wool, but as white
as snow-queens, before they reached the
Eue Bon Secours.

Go in, dear," said Honor, shaking the
snow off the little red cloak. "Go in
and sit by the fire till I come back. I

shall not be long. I am only going as
far as Madame Mare's fruit shop to get
some oranges for papa."

Oh, let me come too," pleaded Gladys.
But Honor was inexorable.

It is too cold for little feet," she said,
decisively.

She looked back once as she turned
away, and she never forgot the picture
she saw then. There was the little
figure still standing in the grim doorway,
with the snow falling over her. Her
cheeks were as bright as the cloak she .
wore, her eyes were dancing with health,
with happiness, her hands were outstretched,
her pretty parted lips were
still pleading to follow her sister.

No, no," shouted Honor, through the
snow. '' Go in, go in." Then the door
was shut, the vision vanished, but the remembrance
of it remained engraved forever
upon Honor's memory. She can seethe
picture still whenever she chooses.

VOL. II. p

Meanwhile, she went on through the
snow, gathering her cloak about her
closely. It was not her own old cloak,
that had never been returned to her by
Valentine. This one was a commoner
thing, and had evidently been made for a
much taller person even than our Honor ;
but it was thick, and warm, and answered
its purpose well enough.

She had some distance to go, but she
did not mind that. Indeed, she rather
enjoyed battling with the weather. On
she dashed, with her long cloak flapping
behind her, down the street, round the
corner, across the road, up the steps
leading to the fruit-shop, on the threshold
of which she stopped short suddenly, and
found herself face to face with Stephen
Aylmer !

One end of her cloak had been caught
by a saucepan, that was set like a trap
on the topmost step, the other had
wrapped itself round the young man, as

Honor, unconscious alike of perils behind
and dangers before, had hurled herself
forward almost into his arms. There
they stood together, entangled in the
same cloak, touching each other, trembling
a little, but silent both of them. Honor
was the first to speak.

"How is Valentine?" she said, stooping
down suddenly, and unhooking her
cloak, and setting Stephen free once
more.

"Dying!" replied Stephen, excitedly;
dying of this horrible throat disease —
diphtheria — scarlet fever, whatever it maybe
— of which all Pierreport seems to be
either dead or dying. I was just starting
for London when she fell ill ; but, of
course, I could not leave her in such a
state, and I cannot get a soul to attend
to her. Old Madelon is worn out, and
all the soeurs de charity are engaged.
Even the ladies of Notre Dame de Bon
Secours are employed in the hospitals, all

p 2

except Soeur Genevieve, who is ill herself,
not of this fever, but of brain fever.
As for that old wretch Pulliot, she left usa
week ago. She said she had to look
after her house in the town, but I believe
she was afraid of infection, and I, of course,
can do nothing. Indeed, Valentine
screams whenever I look in at the door.
It is very painful, but not unusual, the
doctor says. Will you let me pass now,
please," he added, brushing past the girl
with a basket of hot-house fruit in his
hands. " I am going to take her these
grapes."

All this time Honor had not spoken a
word. She had stood in the narrow doorway,
staring at him blindly. When he
passed her, however, she ran out after
him, down the slippery steps, into the
snowy streets.

Stephen — Stephen," she cried, wildly,
catching him up, and laying her hand
upon his arm. " Have you just been with

Valentine ? Have you come straight
from her, here, without changing your
clothes ?"

*' Of course I have. Don't keep me
now, please. I want to get back to
her."

Honor's face fell. Her hands dropped
down by her side.

"And you have touched me," she
gasped, with an '' exceeding bitter cry."
*' You have touched me, Stephen !"

«' Why, Honor, what do you mean?"
asked Stephen, angrily. '' Are you so
absurdly afraid of infection ? I wonder
you ever go into a shop if you are, for — "

I am not afraid for myself," interrupted
Honor, gravely, and speaking
quite calmly now. " I am only afraid for
Grades. Our hands have touched, our
clothes have rubbed together, and you
have come straight from a fever bed,
Stephen. Less things than that have
carried infection. I will not run the

risk — I dare not return to the child.
But " (and here her voice began to shake
again, though she went on bravely
but, Stephen — if you like — and if my
father will let me — I will come, and nurse
Valentine for— for you — "

"Oh, Honor — you are an angel !" cried
Stephen, warmly, trying to catch and
clasp her hand in his. " And you need
not be afraid of taking the fever yourself,
for it has been chiefly confined to children
hitherto. But I do not think your father
will let you come."

I am not in the least afraid," Honor
repeated, keeping her hands down by her
side. *rand I think my father will let
me go. If so, I will be with you in an
hour's time."

"And you will save her — if you come,"
cried the young fellow, passionately.
You will save her once more — for me,
Honor !"

HONOR S EYES ARE OPENED.

A fire of hope that but waxed and waned,
Words that soothed, and words that pained,
And hot strange light in the aching eyes."

PHILIP Bourne MARSTON.

Valentine was very ill. She
had been lying in a sort of
stupor for some hours before
Honor arrived, but the opening of the
door, and the swish of the girl's dress,
soft and low as both were, seemed to
rouse her.

Go away," she cried, starting up

suddenly, fixing her bright, burning,
senseless eyes upon Honor's face. " Go
away, Stephen — put down the cards —
they are poisoned, you know — they will
kill you as they killed my father. Ah
no — he is not dead yet — he is playing
still. Oh, Stephen — do not die as he died
do not live as he lived ! Who was
Edmee? What, you think you are
winning now ? Yes, they all think that,
and they all lose in the end. You are
mistaken, Stephen. You think you have
wooed and won an angel — and you have
only got— me — me — " (a hysterical laugh
which made Honor shudder). " I love
you ? Yes, yes ! I think I do. Another
must have loved you, too — might have
loved you better than I do. Not
more — oh no, that is impossible — but
better, you know. And you would have
loved another — nay, may have done so
already for all I know. Are those your
arms round me ? Hold me tighter.

Stephen — closer to your heart — so — so.
What is this between ns ? Is it a letter ?
Is it a book ? Oh, father, father — who
was Edm^e ?"

Valentine was delirious. She had been
so almost all day long.

For a moment, for one second only,
Honor shrank back terrified. The next
she had slipped into Mademoiselle
Madelon's place, and was holding
the girl down in her bed, quietly, but
firmly.

60 and rest," she whispered to the'
tired dame de compagnie. " Go and
sleep — I have come to help you."

The poor woman looked up, scared.
She was in a curious state '' betwixt
waking and sleeping," not having had any
rest for several nights and days.

*' She is very bad," responded Mademoiselle
Madelon, shaking her head.
Then she trotted off obediently, leaving
Honor to fill her place by the bedside,

and stretched herself out on a couple of
chairs, and dreamt of — the angels.

It was no easy task which Honor had
imposed upon herself, and it tested her
whole strength, for the fever ran high,
and Valentine tossed about and raved
incessantly. Always of the same thing ;
always addressing Stephen, and mixing
up his life with that of her father.
Always warning him of the cards, the
dice, the gambler's life, and the suicide's
death.

Little by little. Honor began to understand.
Slowly, very slowly, her eyes were
opened, and she saw what manner of girl
this was whom she had chosen to be her
friend — whom Stephen was about to
make his wife. It was as if a fog had
cleared away, and she saw, down below,
the awful abyss over which she had been
hovering — nay, worse still, she could see
Stephen standing there too, and she was
powerless to stretch forth her hand and

pull him back. It was like a horrible
nightmare.

Oh Stephen-r— Stephen !" she cried, as
Valentine cried, almost as hopelessly, if
not quite so wildly — " Come back, dear,
come back. Leave all these dreadful
things alone." But he could not hear,
she knew.

Just when the short, grey winter's day
deepened into darkness, and the yellow
lights in the town below began to shine
out one by one, the doctor came in.
He had been there twice before that
day, and had not been idle in the meantime.
For, over and above the epidemic,
the autumn was always a sickly season at
Pierreport, and Dr. Levy had his hands
full.

He was a bright, brisk little man, full of
kindness and hope, and always ready to
laugh at himself and his profession in a
way that was most inspiriting. The present
case, however, was no laughing

matter, and there was little room for hope
in connection with it.

There is nothing to be clone except
incessant watching," he said, bending
over his patient. Then turning abruptly
to Honor, and addressing her, she
asked— 'will you undertake to do this,
Mademoiselle ?"

Mademoiselle Madelon looked slightly
hurt. She had started up alertly on the
Doctor's arrival, and would, I am sure,
have indignantly denied ever having
been asleep. Honor bowed her head in
silence.

*' It is her only chance," uttered the
doctor, turning away, without bestowing
any further attention upon the rival
nurses.

Stephen was lying in wait on the stairs,
to catch him. They were old friends by
this time, for it was Dr. Levy, you
remember, who had brought home Colonel
Murray's bleeding body from the sands,

and followed him to the grave. It was
also Dr. Levy who had been the first, if
not almost the only person in Pierreport
(except, perhaps. Honor), to congratulate
Stephen and Valentine on their prospects.
He had shared their trouble: should he
not also share their joy? He was not one
of those who always find it easier to
condole with their friends than to rejoice
for them. The world is full of people
who will sigh over us, pray for us ; but
the feet that will dance to our music, the
lips that will laugh at our jests, are few
and far between. Dr. Levy possessed
them. He was everybody's confessor,
everybody's godfather. It is a part kindhearted
doctors frequently play, especially
among Protestant communities.

How do you find her ?" asked Stephen
breathlessly.

'' Just the same, mon ami,'^ said the
doctor kindly, laying his hand on the
young fellow's shoulder, and looking into

his handsome, haggard face. " I dare
not say otherwise. But courage, she hasa
better chance now than she had before.
She has someone to nurse her at last, and
a good someone too, unless my skill in
physiognomy misleads me. Who is this
girl, M. Aylmere ?"

'' She is the daughter of the English
chaplain here," replied Stephen.

Now our Lady forbid !" cried the
worthy little doctor, crossing himself.
"I thought she was a good Catholic.
She reminds me somehow of that sainted
Soeur Genevieve, who, I fear, is about to
betake herself to another world. She
has the same sort of look in her eyes — a
sort of haunting look, as though something
had dropped out of her life which
she never hopes to find again. Do you
not observe it, Monsieur?" And then
the little man dropped the subject of
Honor out of his mind, and hurried away
to the bedside of his next patient.

For two days and two nights Honor,
with her haunting eyes, watched beside
Valentine. On the third night a change
came, the crisis was past. Valentine's
tongue was still at last. She slept.

If she sleep, she shall do well," the
doctor had said, in the old expressive
Scripture phrase. But somehow it seemed
he had hardly expected she would sleep.

She did though — through the long
dreary hours of the night ; till the Hghts
in the town were put out, and the stars
disappeared of their own accord, Valentine
slept on and Honor still watched.

When the cold night, however, shivered
into a colder dawn, the girl-nurse rose,
threw a shawl over her head, and slipt
noiselessly out of the room. In the salon
beyond Mademoiselle Madelon was sitting
bolt upright in an uncomfortable high-backed
chair. She was supposed to be
awake and ready for any summons, butin
reality, the poor old thing was nodding

away to herself, and smiling, and gurgling
as she dreamt, no doubt, of the pleasant
days of long ago. It is seldom that sleep
can be conquered save by sickness, or by
love, which the poets tell us is indeed a
sickness of the soul.

Honor placed a cushion behind her
nodding head, and went on her way.

There was someone below who was not
asleep, someone whose step had sounded
all night long in the lane outside, restless
and fitful as the beating of her own
heart.

'' Stephen — Stephen !" she cried, running
out towards him.

Oh, Honor — you need not tell me !
I can read your news in your face.
Oh, Honor — how can I ever thank you
enough ?"

On a summer's day, the same young
man had stood at that garden-gate, and
the same young girl had come running

out to meet him, with almost the same
words on her lips. The same — were they
the same ? Is the grey leaf the same as
the green leaf ? Is the Kyrie the same
as the Gloria? Are we ourselves ever
the same one day with another ?

Yes, truly, though we can scarcely
believe it sometimes — we are the same
instrument still, only differently played
upon. The great Composer has pulled
another stop — that is all — until — until
we drop altogether out of the orchestra of
life.

VOL. II.

ON THE STEPS.

We will grieve not, rather find
Strength in what remains behind,
In the primal sympathy
Which having been must ever be.
In the soothing thoughts that spring
Out of human suffering.
In the faith that looks through death."

WORDSWORTH.

S soon as Valentine was pronounced
out of danger, Mr.
Aylmer left Pierreport for London.
He lead business to settle there, he
said, and several people he wished to
see before going to India. Was there
someone in Pierreport he would rather

not meet, day after day, now that the
excitement of illness was over? Honor
liked to fancy this was so. She liked to
believe he had his own kind heart still, and
would fain spare her this additional pain.

Valentine recovered very slowly. She
had been at death's door, to use the
common phrase, and it takes a long time
to travel back to life after having been so
nearly '' across the border." Nor did
she expedite her journey by patience.
She grew very tired of it — tired of swallowing
soups and sops — impatient of
Honor's gentle ways, and gentler voice.

Honor could not help it. She yearned
to go home, (how intensely no one but
herself could tell), but she was forced to
remain where she was, till all chance of
infection should be over. '' A week
more," Dr. Levy had said yesterday.
One — two — three — four — five — six days.
Honor counted them up, and jotted them
off, as eagerly as any schoolboy.

Q 2

Why don't you go out for a walk ?"
said Valentine one day, pushing up her
chin in her old quick way. " I am so
tired of seeing you always prowling
about in that blue serge dress of yours."

Valentine was lying on the sofa by the
window. She was wrapped in a white
shawl, and the pale wintry sunlight came
flickering in and shaking over her. Sickness
had robbed her of none of her
charms ; rather had it added to them. It
had thrown over her ordinarily quick
movements a strange subtle languor, and
given her face a sort of ethereal diaphanous
beauty, such as one sees in the
pictures of virgin saints, painted by
modern French artists. Only, if she
were a saint, it is as well for the world
in general, I think, that sinners should
predominate in it.

Honor, the sinner (and she thought
herself a far bigger one than she was),
had never betrayed herself in the eyes of

Valentine the saint. She used to wonder
afterwards how it was she had not done
so. " I did not know I had so much
self-control," she would say to some one
with whom she had much conversation in
later days. And that someone would
answer, with a sigh — '' Perhaps it was
not you who had so much self-control,
but the other who had so feeble a sight.
I think there are always more blind
people than dumb ones in the world.
Indeed, 1 rather think we are all blind,
until Grot, in His mercy, sends us sorrow
to wash the dust out of our eyes, and
enable us to see more clearly, and know
more nearly, and love more dearly." And
then that someone held her hands. And

then

But this was long after, and has no
business to be written here — at this
juncture — on this day least of all. For,
on this very day. Honor nearly lost
her vaunted self-control. She looked at

Valentine as she lay there in her strange,
pale beauty, like a marble statue, or a
white flower, and she felt a sudden rush
of feelings come over her — pity, anger,
indignation. Then, fearful lest they
should overwhelm her altogether, she fled
out of the room, into the garden, into
the lane ; where she had never been, except
for one moment that morning when she
had brought out the news to Stephen
Aylmer, since the snowy day when she
had come toiling up the hill to undertake
the duties of sick nurse.

It struck her strangely at first — the
strong, salt air, and the glorious sunshine.
But it did her good, too. It blew away
the cobwebs, and swept her mind clear,
she thought.

She went along the lane, and down the
steps that lead to the town. On the
second flight she paused awhile, then sat
down. The warm dry stones were
sparkling in the sunshine, the little red-roofed

town lay among the shadows ; it
all looked just as it had looked many a
summer's day ; for however it may be with
you, Nature, your mother, seldom changes
her countenance. Your heart may be
riven with anguish, but there stand the
everlasting hills, knit together now, as
they were when you and your beloved
first looked at them together.

The love of your life may be drowned in
the sea of desolation, and yet the spring
tides ebb and flow, and the sun rise
daily to laugh in the smiling face of the
blue waters. Is Nature, then, so unsympathetic,
cruel, mocking? Nay, not so.
She simply bides her time, and gives, as it
were, her children their fling, in turn.

Go," she says, '' if such be your
pleasure. Fly after your phantoms :
spend your days in merry-go-rounds,
never catching so much as the tail of the
Pegasus that gallops before you, and
when you are tired of your sports, come

back to me, and I will show you the same
smiling face. I am keeping the sun and
the sea, the moon and the mountain, safe
for you, and when all else fail, these shall
give you comfort. You will understand
some day'*

Honor did not understand as yet;
nevertheless, in the presence of this
smiling, faithful, true-hearted Nature, she
felt brighter and better than she had
done for many a day past. It seemed to
her that she could never be so unhappy
again as she had been. She had borne
the worst of woman's sorrows (or, at
least, what seemed the worst to her girlhood),
and, by God's help, she had not,
perhaps, borne them so badly after all.
She had suffered, and been strong. She
had faced her false lover, and not died in
his presence. She had not shrunk from
acknowledging the truth, and truth, however
sad and bitter, is always more
endurable than *' the imagination of man's

heart, wMcli is evil continually." The
burden one has to bear is better than the
burden one dreamt of bearing. It is the
snow that hangs about the sky that makes
the air so keen and cold, nob the snow
which has fallen and made white the
face of the earth. It is the blast that
goes before the storm that blinds our
eyes ; it is the steam that rises off the
cup that makes us turn away from
a draught, bitter no doubt, but less
nauseous, less acrid, than the mixture of
false ideas and vain hopes we brew for
ourselves. Honor had drunk of this
cup — not all of it yet — nor half of it,
perhaps, poor soul, but enough to make
her say, as she sat there in the sunshine,
' Surely, oh surely, the bitterness of
death is past !"

She leant back on the stones, and took
off her hat, and clasped her hands behind
her head. No one was likely to come up
that way, for the road at the bottom of

the steps bad been almost impassable with
mud since the late rains. Stephen, it is
true, went up and down them sometimes,
it being a short cut from his lodgings to
Mont St. Michel, but he was away, and
no one else was likely to attempt the
feat. Honor might lay her head on a
stone for a pillow, and dream Jacob's
dream, if she chose, without fear of anyone
disturbing her slumbers.

She sat there a long time. How long
she did not know. Perhaps she did
dream — of the angels — a little.

By-and-by, across her dream there fell
the shadow of a child, and mingled with
the angels' songs came the sound of a
tinkling step, and the ring of a merry
voice rippling over with laughter. Honor
started to her feet, and stood still for a
second, rubbing her eyes, and looking
round her, uncertainly. Then suddenly
she flew like an arrow to its mark.

But the child was too quick for her.

Honor, Honor, I have caught you at
last. I am so glad — so glad!" cried
Gladys, springing after her, and holding
her fast, and burying her bright rosy
face in the folds of the objected-to blue
serge dress.

Honor, in an agony, pushed her
away.

Don't, darling," she cried, trying in
vain to loose the clinging clasp of the little
hands. '' Run back to papa. See — there
he is," she added, as her father, with his
eyes on his book, and his feet heavily
freighted with mud, slowly " hove " insight
at the bottom of the steps.

No, no. Honor, 1 have found you, and
I mean to keep you now," cried the child,
eagerly. " Do come home with us. It
is rather dull being all alone with
papa."

Who could resist those pleading lips ?
Who could refrain from kissing that sweet,
bright, up-turned face? Only infinite

love, or intense fear, wliicli must always
be part of such a love as Honor's.

Have you forgotten to be obedient ?"
she said, sternly. " Go back to papa at
once, Gladys."

The child looked up for a moment with
a scared, startled face. Honor had never
spoken to her so roughly before. Then
the tears gathered slowly in the big brown
eyes, the golden head drooped a little, the
clinging hands let go their hold, and the
child crept away down the steps to her
father.

As for Honor, she went up them again,
quivering in every limb.

It was here she held me, it was there
she hid her face," she cried, shaking the
hateful blue gown. " And Valentine had
touched it but an hour ago." For the
moment she was mad.

When she reached the topmost step,
however, she knelt down, and prayed.
She knew not how long she remained

there, but when she rose up again it
seemed to her as if her prayers had been
heard.

Ah, God is merciful," she said, clasping
her hands together. " He will not
suffer so small a thing to work so great a
sorrow — "

And yet — and yet — a flash of the sword
and the warrior is dead — a word spoken
in haste, and a soul may be lost for
eternity !

SHADOWS.

We must have a number of shadows to fill up the
muster-book." — falstaff.

HE day came at last when Valentine
might leave her sofa, and go
out into the fresh air and clear
sunshine. It was a grease event. Mademoiselle
Madelon wrapped her up. Stephen,
who had returned the night before,
went with her. They strolled up and
down the lane, discussing, no doubt, their
future prospects.

Honor did not accompany them. They

did not want her, of course, and she had
promised herself not to go out again till the
time came for going home.

She leant from the window, however,
and looked out after the lovers. She tried
to think she had forgiven them, but she
knew very well she had not done so. The
sight of Stephen had renewed within her
all her old stony feelings. Her heart
was as hard against them as the ground
had been yesterday during the frost.
That was soft now. Some snow had
fallen in the night, and now the sun was '
shining and the ground was all wet and
springy. Was there no more sunshine
for her — nor any snow either ? Would
her heart never grow soft again ? Never
heave and swell with gentle dews,
and blossom once more with kindliness
and generosity ? Honor, poor Honor, did
not know.

It was a bright breezy day, notwithstanding
yesterday's frost and snow. The

sea was studded with fishing-boats, as a
skj is strewn with stars. Yet only last
week a boat had struck upon yonder rock ;
and an old man had been drowned, with
his two sons, and his boy-grandson,
as well. The people had mourned
with the women for a day, the sea had
looked angry for an hour, and then all had
been again as though these things were
not. Would it be so with her ? Her good
ship had gone down, and the sea had
closed over it, but the waves were not
dancing for her; it was a dreary waste
of waters that lay stretched out before
her. Honor did not dread pain so
much as she dreaded monotony. Day
after day, wave after wave, as far as she
could see it was all dull, grey, colourless.
She had hardly emerged from under a
rock which had well nigh crushed her,
and here she was already afraid of a future
in which there should be no shadows.
And she was right. Shadows are

good things in themselves, inasmuch as
they prove the presence of better things.
There must be a sun, or, at least, a moon
there must be some actual body or
being close beside us when the shadows
cross our path. A life without shadows,
if such a thing were possible, would belike
soup without salt, or day without
night. One might as well be a dormouse
wrapped up in cotton wool at once.

Such a life, however, was not in store
for Honor — at least, not yet. Her good
ship had gone down, it is true, but was
there not still a gay little pleasure-boat
to sail along in its track — a brave little
boat with sails set and bunting flying, and
such a big cargo of love ! Was there not
always Gladys ?

Yes, always Gladys. She would never
leave the child now. Perhaps she had not
yet been sufficiently thankful for that
blessing. There would be no parting for
them now ; no miles of sea and land

VOL. II. R

stretching between her and her little one.
The cup had been bitter to drink, but
there was this lump of sugar at the
bottom. There would always be Gladys.

She turned away from the window and
thought of the child. Nine years old in
January, for Gladys had been born with
the new year and the snowdrops. She
must begin to learn something now.
Honor must see about it as soon as they
got home again. Should she send her to
Miss Pincock's little school, or should she
have a governess for her at home ? Honor
shrank from both ideas. No, she would
teach her herself all she knew, and
then

Nine years old in January. Ten more
years, and she, too, perhaps, would be
drifting away from her side. Honor
would not think of that, she would think
rather of the little frocks. Gladys must
have some new ones. All those of last
winter were too small for her now. They

had tried them on oue day, and laughed
at the result. Gladys' arms and legs had
stuck out of them like Master Oarraway's
limbs out of his scanty garments, so the
child had said ; and they had settled to
give the little frocks away to Rosalind,
for her little nephews and nieces, for poor
little Violet, who was dead. The child
had grown so much since she came to
Pierreport, perhaps she would even have
grown a little since Honor had seen her
last. And then she leaned back in her
chair, and closed her eyes, and pictures
to herself the meeting which would soon
take place between them.

Two more days, and she would clasp
her in her arms. When the day before
Christmas day came, Dr. Levy had said
there could no longer be any possibility of
her conveying infection to any one.

How they would laugh when they saw
each other again ! How they would
chatter and clatter, and catch each other's

R 2

faces between their hands, and kiss a
dozen times for each day they had missed.
If only the hours would go a little faster,
and that one glad moment arrive. If
only always one could rush past the grey
milestones and dash on to the golden gate.
Nay, nay, dears, be content. The road
is dusty, I know, and the milestones are
ugly, no doubt, and the gate shining over
there is full of light, and beautiful as a
painted church window. But if you knew
that it was only a common gate after alla
gate such as anyone can make, and
most people do make ; if you could see
that the shifting shadows and mobile
lights were but thrown there by yourself
as you hurried along the road, would you
still go on rushing past the milestones at
such electric speed ? would you still go on
longing for your express trains and shortcut
? would you heed my warning and let
it spare you much ?

Would you ? I cannot tell. All I know

is that Honor certainly did not ; and as
things thus passionately longed for are
often strangely accomplished in some way
or other (as if there were always someone
lying in wait to catch our prayers, and
grant us our desires, or else a parody of
them), so this poor girl suddenly found
her weary time of waiting shortened by
two days.

She was still sitting there musing with
closed eyes, when the door opened with a
jerk, and Mademoiselle Madelon, who had
not forgiven the doctor's partiality for
Honor's nursing powers in preference to
lier own, threw a letter down upon the
table before her.

Voila pour vous, mademoiselle,^^ she
said, retreating once more.

Honor glanced at the letter mechanically.
Then suddenly she snatched it up.
She did not open it, she did not read it,
but she knew — ah ! she had known for a
week past what its contents must be.

She seized her hat, and flew out of the
house into the lane, down the steps,
towards the Rue Bon Secours. Once she
paused for breath, and looked up to the
bleak, blue sky, and tried to pray, once
she opened the letter, and tried to read
it. But there was a mist before her eyes,
a chill salt taste on her lips. She could
not see to read, she could not lift her
heart to pray. She let the letter drop
from her hands, and never pausing topick
it up, sped on homewards like a
bird to its nest.

And Stephen going back to his lodgings
at night, whistling as he went,
with Yale tine's laugh still ringing in
his ears, found the poor little letter
fluttering about in the mud at the bottom
of the steps. He picked it up. It Alas
open, and he could not help reading it by
the light of the moon, for it only contained
three short lines.

'' Gladys is a little unwell. Dr. Ivy
has just seen her. He thinks it may
prove to be a slight case of diphtheria.
He says you had better come home."

Poor Honor !" said Stephen, letting
the letter flutter back once more into the
mud. " May heaven save her from this
trial !"

And he had tried once to set his love
for her against hers for the child !

HOW HONOR REACHED THE GOLDEN GATE.

Flecte quod est libitum :
Love quod est frigid urn

Rage quod est tedium
Da virtutis merit :
Da salutis exitus

Da parents studium."

KING ROBERT OF FRANCE. {Cit'Ca 1027.)

;^-^]HE outer door of the Chaplain's
ip Irf apartment was standing open,
^/vS^j when Honor rushed up the
stairs in a whirlwind of terror and
anxiety. Rosaline had happened to see
her coming down the street, and had set
the door open for her. She dared not

face her young mistress with the fears
she knew were written in her tearful eyes.
But she sympathized thoroughly with her.
She had known herself so lately what it
was to lose a little child she loved.

The salon door was open too. Honor
looked in eagerly, anxiously. She hardly
knew what she dreaded, or what she
thought ; but she certainly did not expect
to see Gladys sitting there by the fire,
with her little feet tucked up on the
fender, and her little hands restlessly
playing with some white wool knitting,
threaded upon ivory pins.

She stood still for a moment, gasping
for breath, and endeavouring to regain
her spent strength. The child was not
ill after all ; she could not be ill with
those eyes that shone like stars, and those
cheeks that burnt like flames, and those
red curling lips that were rosier than
rose-leaves. Poor Honor thought her
darling had never looked more beautiful

than now, as she sat there before
the low wood fire, with her bright
tangled hair pushed back off her forehead,
and falling over her shoulders,
like a wind-blown, sun-born, golden
mist.

The father thought so too, perhaps —
thought for once that his little daughter
was more worth looking at than the big,
black-lettered book across his knee. These
pages remained unturned, unread, the
weary old eyes sought perpetually the
small, spiritual face of his child, who
glanced up and smiled at him, faintly,
now and again.

Surely she was not ill. Honor had
made a mistake. The letter might not
have been about Gladys after all. How
foolish it was of her not to have read
it. She had let it drop at the foot of the
steps, she remembered. Should she go
back and find it ? Perhaps, indeed, she
ought to go away altogether. It was two

days earlier than the doctor had said she
might return home.

But the child's quick ears had caught
the sound of a sigh.

Honor !" she cried, a little hoarsely;
but starting up in her chair, and clapping
her hands. '' Honor come back at last !
Oh, I am so glad — so glad ! And you
will not push me away this time, will you,
Honor ?"

For all answer the girl rushed upon
her, and caught her to her heart.

There is not much the matter with
her, I think," said the father slowly,
after a pause, as Honor drew back on
her knees, the better to look at her
little sister. "I thought it as well to
write ; but there really is not much the
matter."

Not much the matter," echoed the
child, trying to laugh. "Not much
the matter, except that papa keeps
looking at me so often, and my headaches,

and my throat burns, and my
hands are so hot — so hot'*

'' But we will soon put all that to rights,
won't we, Honor ?" continued the father,
whose old, dreamy face seemed suddenly
to have grown quite keen and hard, like
a pane of glass on a winter's day, when
the frost-flowers are wiped off it. '' She
was always a delicate child, you know.
But she will be all right again in a day
or two, won't she. Honor ?"

Oh yes — papa dear — in a day or two,"
answered someone. But that someone
was not Honor.

Why, she looks better already, since
you have come ; don't you think so.
Honor?" said the father, in that sad sort
of half-persuasive, half-questioning tone,
which we all use, when we want to convince
another of a fact we dare not
believe in ourselves. '' Yes, she is
certainly better. You can speak more
easily now, can't you, dear ? Yes, I am

sure you can. Come, tell Honor all you
have done since she has been away. Tell
her of all our walks, and talks, and
about the little boy and girl in the fishing
quarter, who ran out of one of the
houses and gave you some shells. You
liked that, didn't you, Gladys ?"

'' Yes, papa, I liked it all," said the
child, clasping her hot hands round her
throat, and speaking as if she had clasped
it too tightly. "It was Lili and her
little brother, Hyacinthe, who gave me
the shells. Honor, you know, and I gave
Hyacinthe my spade in return. And T
should like Lili to have my doll because —
because her little baby brother is dead,
and I shall not want it again — I think.
Will you take it to her some day for me,
please ? And see, I have tried to finish
my knitting, but I cannot do any more —
my hands are so hot, and the wool keeps
on getting entangled. I think it got
tangled first whilst I listened to one of

papa's stories. He read it out of a book.
It was about a little bos who tried to
fly up to the sun ; but who only fell
into the sea. I cannot remember it very
well though, for I seem to be always
thinking of the angels now, Honor, and
I know they fly straight. And that
is all I can tell you, except how glad
I am that you have come back once
more." And the poor, tired child buried
her hot face in her sister's breast.

Honor was kneeling on the floor. Her
head was thrown back against the sharp
end of the chair, her arms were wound
round the little one. She was devouring
the child with her eyes, but she had not
spoken a single word yet.

Suddenly she looked up.

'' There is too much wood on the fire,"
she said, fiercely. " It is too hot here for
Gladys."

That is just what I have been telling
her all this time," said the father, helplessly,

'' but lie says she likes it. Still,
perhaps it would be better if you took her
away into a cooler room, and tried to
make her eat something, Honor."

I can't eat, it hurts so," cried the
child, clasping her throat with one hand,
and passing the other through her sister's
arm, as they walked away together once
more, in the pretty, old, clinging, caressing
fashion. 'but come. Honor, let
us go away together. You will always
come now, when I want you, won't you ?
You will never leave me again, will you,
dear Honor ?"

Never ? ah ! never is a long word,
people say, but it meant a very short time
that winter's day at Pierreport.

They all knew it — the father and Rosa-line,
even Madame Pleon, from beyond
Mont St. Michel, and the nuns in the
convent opposite — all knew that never
again would the little child dance up and
down the stone-stairs, nor stand at the

window and kiss her hand to the passers-by,
nor fill the old grim streets with her
bright laughter and gladsome ways, and
merry young presence. They all knew
it, and in their faces who willed might
read their knowledge.

Only Honor, if she knew it, told it
not.

She, and she alone, could always laugh
when Grades wanted her to laugh. She,
and she alone, could still sing the old
songs, and tell the old stories over andover
again. She could even count the
days that should come and go before they
saw the lamps in St. Mark's Road again ;
and she could do it all, and did do it all,
with a calm, sweet face, and a low steady
voice. Whatever Gladys wanted, Honor
could do, no matter at what cost to herself.
Surely this is the triumph of love,
when even sorrow can be conquered for
the beloved's sake !

The father's face grew piteous. Rosa-line

wept aloud. Even the doctor rubbed
his eyes, as lie glanced from one sister to
the other. But Honor, Honor alone, had
no tears to shed.

She would not have shed them had she
had any. She must laugh now, all day
long if need be. There would be plenty
of time to cry when the child should no
longer want her to laugh.

She never left her side. She knew
exactly what to do, and how to do it.
She had learnt the nature of the illness,
and the sort of nursing required. Th
time passed by Valentine's sick-bed had
not been, so far, spent in vain.

Not that the child was ever delirious
as Valentine had been, nor, alas !
did she ever sleep as Valentine had
slept.

She looks a little drowsy to-night,
I think," whispers the father, peering
wistfully into the small, shrunken,
waxen face of his last-born child,

VOL. IT. s

as it lay pitifully upon Honor's shoulder.

The child caught the words, and
stroked her sister's face with her little
clammy fingers. Honor said nothing.

All day long she had carried Gladys
up and down the room, holding her
upright in her arms, as Holbein's
Virgin holds her child. It was a tiring
position, but Honor was not tired. Each
moment, it had seemed to her, the little
burden grew more sadly, more painfully
light.

By-and-by the sisters were left alone
together. They had always loved to be
together thus ; and the slightest sound,
the faintest footfall, seemed to rouse and
disturb the child.

It was the third night after Honor's
return, and a bitter night it was, snowy
and soundless, save when the clang of
the convent clock vibrated slowly through
the still keen air, as it struck off the
hours one by one. Honor shivered with

each stroke that fell. But the child in
her arms never stirred — never spoke.

Suddenly, through the dark silence, the
darkness that had deepened, the silence
that had strengthened, as the dawn grew
on apace, a peal of bright glad voices rang
out jubilant :

'■' Adeste fideles
Loeti triumphant
Venite venite in Bethlehem."

'what is that?" asked Gladys, faintly,
in a voice that already seemed " a great
way off."

'' It is the nuns singing, it is Christmas
morning, darling," said Honor, who had
forgotten the fact herself, but remembered
it now with a sudden start. The air was
full of heaven's praises and earth's prayers,
but she, poor stricken soul, could join in
neither of them.

Let me see," said the child, trying to
raise herself in Honor's arms, but failings

2

to do SO, and falling back once more upon
the sheltering shoulder.

Honor lifted her up to the window, and
drew back the curtain. The snow had
ceased falling by this time. The angels
were no longer shedding their great
feathery tears. They had done their
work well, however. Beneath the dusky
heavens a new white world lay spread
out, a fitting cradle, pure and soft,
for the God-child who should be born that
day.

Ergo qui natus,
Die moderne,
Jesu tibi sit gloria."

The angels went on singing — they were
striking their harps, instead of shedding
their tears, now. There was a strange
light below, a great darkness above. The
earth seemed to be sinking away under
one's feet, the heavens — were the heavens
so near ? Honor grew confused.

She sat down in an arm-chair by the
fire, but she scarcely knew where she
was.

Good-night, Honor," said Gladys,
softly and suddenly.

But it) is morning, Queenie," cried
Honor, pointing to the window, and
speaking the pretty, old pet name for the
last time.

'' Good-night," repeated the child calmly.
"It is night for you, / am going into the
next room, you know. And you must
not cry very much after me, Honor, for I'
shall be there — you know — there ; where
the stars are the lamps — and the people

are always happier than happy "

And then, the little voice which had gone
soaring up and up, like a bird through the
air, vanished suddenly, and was lost amid
the angelic choir"'

Canter nunc lo !
Chorus angelorum,
Canter nunc aula celestial."

Gloria

In excess Deo !

Venite adores,

Venite adores,

Venite adores Dominus'*

It was thus that Honor reached the
golden gate.

And here, perhaps, artistically. Honor's
story ought to end. But life itself does
not end thus. There is always something
beyond. We should never die, I verily
believe, we could not do it — nature would
forbid it — if we were not meant to live
again.

When the morning broke, and the pale
yellowish light came filtering through the
curtailed window and flowing into the
dreary room, it fell upon the two sisters
lying thus, twined together, the living with
the dead. Indeed it was hard at first to tell
the living from the dead, for the child
was smiling in death, and the girl lay

dumb and numb, and utterly unconscious
of life. They tried to rouse ber, but sbe
did not heed them. The father came in
and out with his piteous and haggard
face. "It is wrong to mourn like this,"
he said once, hesitating. Honor looked
at him with stony eyes.

You never cared for her," she said
slowly. " You never thought as much
about her, as you thought about one of
your books. I must mourn for her
doubly."

Sorrow had made her cruel. Those
were the only words she spoke all day.

At the end of that sad dull day, kindhearted
Dr. Levy came in again, and
found her still in the same lethargic state.

This will never do," he said, looking
at her anxiously. " She must be roused
by some means or other. Has M. le
Ministre no friend, no wise kind lady-friend
whom he could ask to be with his
daughter now ?"

Poor M. le Ministre looked utterly
bewildered, and the doctor was forced to
repeat his remark before he caught the
drift of it.

"No friends — no," he said helplessly.
Honor has no friends. She never had
any." And then, when pressed a little
further, he mentioned the name of Miss
Pincock in London.

'' It must be someone here — it must be
someone to come at once," said the doctor
gravely. He was wondering a Httle at
the strange way in which these people
mourned their loss. It was the English
mode perhaps. " Tenez, the jeune demoiselle
from the Mont St. Michel, the young
lady whom Mademoiselle voice fille nursed
so admirably through her illness, and
who is soon about to become a bride,
I hear. How would she do, M. le
Ministre ?" And the doctor rubbed his
hands together, and felt not a little proud
of his suggestion.

But the old man's face flushed with a
sudden strange emotion ; then as swiftly
grew grey and colourless again.

She cannot come here," he said in a
low stern voice. " I know all now. She
is greatly to be pitied, no doubt, but —
it is unchristian-like to feel so, it may be
unbefitting my position to say so, and
yet it is the truth — we cannot forgive her
just yet, because — we loved her so much
once." He spoke the last sentence
as if to himself, with his lips almost
closed, and his face dropping on his-breast.


The doctor gave a little whistle of
surprise. He was not a man of refined
feeling, perhaps, but he was a skilful
doctor of the mind as well as of the body,
and a good Catholic besides.

She comes not of a good stock, certainly
— at least, not so far as her father
is concerned ; and yet there may be
greater sinners even than he in this world

of ours. But we have our saints, too,"
he added, with a sudden change of tone.
If Monsieur would only permit me to
present to him one of them ?"

Poor Monsieur bowed his shoulders.
He seemed incapable of uttering a word
more. Dr. Levy went out, and returned
almost immediately with Soeur Genevieve.

Carrying THE CROSS.

5lnfang3 not ic fail t)crgagen,
Unb i<^ glauBe ic trug eg nie
Unb ic t)aU e§ bo ertragen
5l6cr, frag mice nur nit ttjie."

»&einric^ «§etne.

HEY buried little Gladys beside
the sea at Petit Pierreport, on
the day which the Church has
dedicated to the memory of the Holy
Innocents.

The snow fell thick and fast as they
gathered round the little coffin. It fluttered
down softly, and half filled up the

little grave, and changed the mourners'
black robes into shining white raiment.
There were not many oi them. Honor,
of course; she had silently entered the
mourning coach, no one saying to her
yea or nay; and Soeur Grenevi^ve, who
had obtained a special grace to be present ;
and Rosaline, and her sister, and Lili,
and Hyacinthe, who cried hysterically all
the time. But Honor never shed a tear.
Indeed, she had not shed one since the
child's death.

The poor old grief stricken father read
the service in a trembling voice, with
gasps and halts for breath. Before it was
quite over, another mourner was added to
the little group.

This other mourner followed Honor, as
she turned away at last from her sister's
grave. He overtook her at the loch-gate,
through which little Gladys had peered
that cloudless summer day, when they
had all sat together on the sands in the

sunshine, and never dreamt of the shadows
that were even then creeping towards
them.

Won't you let me shake hands with
you ?" he said, holding out his own hand,
and speaking in a voice so full of tender,
manly sympathy and sorrow, that Soeur
Genevieve was touched by it. But Honor
took no notice. She seemed to be blind
and deaf, as well as dumb, with grief.

Won't you forgive me ?" he went on.
'' Won't you bid me good-bye ? By the
next mail — " but Honor had already reentered
the mourning coach, and pulled
down the blind. It was years and years
before that blind was pulled up again, and
they saw each other face to face once more,

Soeur Genevieve went home with
Honor.

Shall I stay with you now, mon
enfant .^" she said, shaking the snow ofi
the girl's cloak. " Or would you rather I
should come tomorrow instead ?"

Honor did not answer. But Soeur
Genevieve did both. She stayed with her
all that long sad day : she came again
the next day, and the next, and ministered
to her.

But Honor took no notice. She seemed
to be scarcely conscious of the Sister's
presence. She would sit for hours,
fingering some little frock that never now,
alas, need be " let down ;" or a doll, or a
toy, or anything that had belonged to the
child. She made no effort to rouse herself.
She let her father come and go,
with his piteous face and trembling
speech ; she left him alone to his solitary
studies and dreary meals. There was no
need to tell her it was wrong to mourn
thus; she knew it, but she could not
help it. Others might be stronger, and
more able to shake off their sorrows.
But then those others had never known,
or loved, or lost a Gladys.

No one could mourn as she had

mourned, because none had ever lost so
much. Sorrow", swift, sudden sorrow, as
was this of Honor's, is apt to make the
most self-forgetful of us self-absorbed —
at any rate for a time.

One day Soeur Genevieve did not
come.

Honor looked for her from morning till
noon — from noon till sunset, thinking of
her, and waiting, and wondering, but
saying nothing.

When the pale, meagre, wintry light
ebbed away into utter darkness, she
turned to the window, from which little
Gladys had so often watched the nuns of
the convent opposite, trudging in and out,
and stood there for a time looking out
herself. •

All was dark at the convent now, as
well as everywhere else. But there was a
lamp swinging before the door, and some
light set in the chapel beyond, from

which also the sisters' voices came streaming
in soft sudden waves of harmony, as
they chanted their vesper hymn. Honor
wondered whether Soeur Genevieve was
singing among the rest, and tried to
distinguish her voice.

By-and-by she turned away, then went
back again. It seemed as though there
were some problem in her mind, which
the convent sights and sounds helped to
solve.

The Sisters sang on, the lights still
shone softly through the darkness. It all
looked so peaceful, so serene. Surely the
gentle hands that trimmed those lamps,
day after day, could never have known
what it was to grope about in the darkness
of despair. Surely those sweet,
clear voices, rising and falling with the
music of the psalms, had never been
hoarse with tears, or drowned in a storm
of sobs. Or, if indeed such things had
been, they were over now — over for ever

for those pure, passionless, saintly women,
who hid their pains behind their palms,
so wisely and so well. Honor dreamt of
the convent that night.

"Why did you not come yesterday?"
she asked of Soeur Grenevi^ve, the next
day.

I was ill," replied the Sister, gently.
'' I have been very ill lately, you know. I
had a great shock one day, and that made
me very ill for some time."

A great shock !" repeated Honor,
looking at her wonderingly. How should
a nun suffer from a shock? How should
a woman who was supposed to have
stripped all joy and sorrow, the rose and
the thorn alike, off her life, still
experience such sharp, sudden sensations ?
Honor was like the child who was surprised
to see her sister looking '' exactly
the same " before and after the marriage
ceremony. We are all like that child.
We continually forget that the gate is

VOL. IT. T

not the garden. We expect certain
results, crowns of roses, garlands of
forget-me-nots, with each new step in
life. And yet there are hundreds of
folks who enter into many new estates,
but who never get beyond the gates all
the days of their life.

Yes, I had a great shock," replied
Soeur Genevieve, " and that
brought on brain fever. But now, thank
God, I am better. He has given me a
little more time wherein to pray for the
soul of one who, I fear, but seldom prayed
for himself."

She spoke a little wildly, and Honor
looked at her again. She saw a face, not
young, certainly, nor old either, but full
of sudden, tremulous feeling, from the
white band across her brow, to the white
linen about her throat — a face with
dreams in its eyes, and shadows on its
cheeks, and those marks about the lips
that come from repeated kissing of the

cross, and yet a face which, even in that
supreme moment of adoration, somehow
suddenly and strangely reminded her of
Valentine.

You did miss me then, a little, dear
child," Soeur Genevieve said, in her
low, vibrating voice. It was the first
symptom of impatience Honor had
shown.

*' It is so hard to be alone and
unhappy," murmured Honor, hanging her
head.

But why are you alone, then ?" asked
Soeur Genevieve, going straight to the
point at once.

Honor did not answer. She knew
there were certain things that were
always said to people in trouble, and she
fancied Soeur Genevieve was going to
preach these things to her now. They
would be horrible mocking words, stones
instead of bread, dry shrivelled-up leaves
instead of the living, sun-warmed flowers

T 2

that had dropped from her hand. She
would have none of them. She turned
her head, she would not listen.

Meanwhile, Soeur Genevieve was indeed
talking on, gravely and gently.

I do not know how it may be in
your church, mon enfant, but surely,
whenever you have visited any of ours,
you must have seen in the ' Via Crucis,'
how three times over our Blessed Saviour
faints and falls beneath the weight of His
Cross. Even He cannot bear it alone ; it
is so heavy with the burden of our sins.
Some one must share it with Him. The
sinless is helped by the sinful. The God-man
is aided, not by God, but by man.
If so it was with Him, how could it be
otherwise with us ? I do not tell you
now to go to God ; that I think you have
already done, as all must do in their
sorest agony, as He did Himself in the
Garden of Gethsemane. But I tell you to
follow Him further, to tread in His footsteps,

as you too go down the ' Via
Crucis,' and let those who walk beside
you help to carry your cross."

Honor was listening now.

*but no one walks beside me," she
said. "I am alone now, all alone."

And your father ?" said Soeur Genevieve,
simply.

*' Ah, my father !" said Honor, with a
start. '' Ah, Soeur Genevieve, you are
right. I have been selfish ; mad, I think.
I was dreaming of a sister's life— a
sister's life has hitherto been my sole
vocation, you know," she said, with such
a sad little smile — " and I had almost
forgotten I was also a daughter."

'' Le hon Dieu has sent you this trouble
to remind you of the truth, perhaps,"
said Soeur Genevieve, with gentle solemnity.
'' As for a religious life, it is a
blessed one, no doubt, but it should
never be sought merely as a refuge from
the troubles of the world. Its vows

should be taken before other promises
have been given. The heart that devotes
itself to its service should be a pure one,
unspotted by earthly passion, unstained
by earthly memories — as — as "

"As yours was, Soeur Genevieve,"
said Honor, filling up the pause, and
wondering why the nun's voice failed her
so suddenly.

"Do not ask me, child," said Soeur
Genevieve, turning her head away.
Then a moment later she turned round
again, and added, with a slow sad smile.
Nay, you need not ask me, for I will
tell you all without."

And then and there Soeur Genevieve
told Honor the story of Edmee de
Coulanges' life.

When it was finished. Honor's
cheeks were wet with tears, at
last.

I begin to see more clearly," she
said, looking up through her wet eyelashes.

*' I was wrong to think my
sorrow greater than other people's. Dear
Soeur Genevieve, how can you have lived
through your own ?"

I have lived to share my cross," she
answered, stooping down to kiss the
girl's wet cheeks. '' Share yours, mon
enfant ; pain is human, as joy is angelic,
but sympathy, given or taken, is
divine."

That evening Honor went into the
next room to her father, and poured out
his tea, and sat beside him afterwards, ashe
pulled his little table towards him,
and his lamp, and his book. There were
some writing materials on the same table.
By-and-by she took up a pen and began
to write. The father, bending over
his book, looked up at her once or
twice.

Who are you writing to, my dear ?"
he asked, at last.

** I am writing to Stephen, papa.
Would you like to see my letter ?" And
she held it out to her father.

Mr. Carmichael took the letter. It was
written rather incoherently, and blotted
here and there with those poor little
crinkled spots that tell their own tale
more eloquently than words. The father
made out part of it.

Forgive me," it said, " forgive me
my conduct in the churchyard the other
morning. Grief made me wicked for the
time, but I know better now; and you
will forgive me, won't you ? for the
child's sake, if not for mine. She was
always so fond of you, Stephen "

And then the letter went on to wish
Stephen and Valentine, every blessing
and happiness in their marriage and
residence in India, and ended by expressing
a hope that they might meet again in
happier days, if not in this life, then in
that to come.

Mr. Carmichael eyes grew dim as he
read.

You are a good girl. Honor," he said,
in a tremulous voice. " Can you add my
wishes to yours ?"

Honor obeyed him, and then the father,
stretching out his hands, caught hers
in his, and drew her down in a long
embrace.

THE HARVEST AT THE VICARAGE.

** Ships that pass in the night, and speak to each other

in passing;
Only a signal shown, and a distant voice in the darkness ;
So on the ocean of life, we pass and speak one another,
Only a look, and a voice, then darkness again, and a

silence." aftermath.

N most of our lives there are
seasons when the whole machinery
of our existence seems
to be set going all together ; and after
that, and before that, a long, blank, silent
space, which we, in our ignorance, often
deem to be wasted time.

And yet, in those spaces, sometimes,
life is growing as it could not have grown
in the crash and the crowd that preceded
or followed them — through that silence
the pendulum is beating, not fitfully, as
it throbbed and vibrated when all its
wheels were wound up, but steadily,
faithfully keeping the time : by means of
those rests music is made, a music that
was not, and never could be, amid the
clanging of a thousand chords, and were
it not for these " waste times," as we
call them, we ourselves might as well be
but engines of brass and iron, battling
with other engines, instead of creatures
of blood and brain, formed to fight, it is
true, but also to gather our laurels sometimes,
and above all so to set up our
standards that those who come after us
may press on before us.

It is not on the soft sunshiny days,
when the seed is first sown, nor yet in
the wild stormy nights when the rain

pours down in torrents, and the wind
howls Hke an unquiet spirit that the
fields can ever grow white to harvest.
No, indeed. The dull, dark days, the
windless, starless nights, the moist,
monotonous months, these are the times
when the seed may sprout, and the buds
burst forth without fear of the sun
scorching up its leaves, or the wind
blowing it away like chaff. And in each
one of our lives there are some such
seasons — for from each of us is a harvest
required.

The harvest at the Vicarage was good,
I think. Will you come with me, and
look upon it ?

See, there is the old house, and the
old man himself standing under the
verandah, shading his eyes and looking
out towards the lane that runs down from
St. Mark's Road. He is older by seven
years than when you saw him last. He
stoops more than he did, and his eyes are

always dim now. But Honor, and —
and — someone else, are his spectacles, he
says. They know, only too well — Honor
does, at least — that they are his eyes.

She is standing beside him now. She
is never far away from his side. She
reads, and talks, and walks with him,
and he sees the things she shows him.
She is changed somewhat, of course.
One cannot pass through the hottest
seasons of one's life without some bud
or other being scorched up. Out of her
face something may have gone, something
that was tender, and trusting, and childlike;
but in its place a better thing
has come — a sweet, steadfast glance,
a helpful, hopeful air — a rainbow look,
as it were, which proves past pain indeed,
but which also speaks of present peace.

The blossoms drop that the fruit may
come. People so often mistake trust for
hope, and forget that the one generally
dies before the other is born.

No sign of the cab, yet, Honor ?"
asks the father.

'* No, papa," replies Honor, shading
her eyes, and looking out over the
garden into the street beyond. " The
train must have been late. It is past
eleven already, and it is getting so hot
here — too hot for yon, dear, I think.
Will you not go back into the drawing-room,
and let me call you when I see the
cab coming ?"

The old man bent his head, and felt
his way back into the cool, darkened
drawing-room. Honor remained without,
standing under the verandah, and looking
down into the quiet, sunshiny garden.

There was but little change here. The
bricks and mortar were somewhat more
sunburnt and brown, but the mouldy plots
seemed no more fertile than of old. The
willow-branches still swept the grass, the
honeysuckle still flaunted over the wall,
and even from behind the hollyhock

hedge there seemed to be just the same
sort of rustle and stir, such as little
Gladys used to make, when she played
about amongst the flowers years ago.

It was only a butterfly, perhaps, fluttering
hither and thither, with kisses on his
wings; or a cat maybe, stealing along
the wall, or a bird, or a bee, or the fall
of a leaf or two — it could not have been
anything else, for Gladys, little Gladys,
you know, was sleeping soundly under
the daisies beside the sea at Pierre-port
.

It was doubtless — nothing ; for Honor
did not seem to hear the sound; or, at
least, she took no notice of it. She
stood there, listening ; the chattering and
chaffering growing fainter and fainter the
while ; for, even in England, when the
sun puts forth his strength, life has a
trick of becoming rather slack and
sleepy.

It was St. James's Day, once more, and

just such another glorious, glowing July
day, as it had been seven summers ago.

Seven summers ago ! and each summer
a year, except that one which had been
a life-time. It was a dull landscape to
look back upon, a flat, monotonous plain,
totally unlike that beautiful varied picture
she had been wont to paint for herself.
But it was not a barren, nor a profitless
one. A daily tale of duties quietly performed,
" the trivial round, the common
task," these, if they did not exactly
satisfy her views of life, at any rate contented
her. There were shadows in it
too — yes alas ! one terribly dark one,
creeping even now, closer and closer
round her dear old father. But there
was sunshine also — one strange, unexpected
ray — from —

Honor, my dear, surely there is a
cab stopping at the door, now ? I heard
the wheels. What can you have been
doing not to see it ?"

So there is, papa. How quick your
ears are," said Honor, looking round,
and seeing a cab piled with luggage
drawn up before their garden-gate. " I
don't know how I came to miss seeing it.
I suppose I was thinking regretfully of
the position I have lost," she added,
laughing, as she passed her arm through
that of her father, and led him, without
his being aware of the extent of her
guidance, down the verandah steps, and
across the grass-plot.

This was a standing joke between them.
The arrival they were impatiently awaiting
was that of no less a personage thana
Bishop ; and the said Bishop (a colonial
one), being no other than the devoted
Mr. Wynch, late curate of St. Mark's,
and for a brief interval the occupant of
a living in a manufacturing town, Honor
would pretend to regret not having given
her father an episcopal son-in-law.

It was this I came to tell you at

VOL. II. U

Pierreport," he had said, that dreary
winter a week or two after the Carmichaelss'
sad return to the Vicarage.
About the Manchester living. I wanted —
am I speaking too soon ?" he asked,
anxiously, for the girl's eyes had filled
with tears at the mention of the little
French sea-port town.

No, no ;" said Honor, with a faint
sob. She was thinking of the fairy tale
she had listened to in those days, not of
the very commonplace every-day story
Mr. Wynch would fain tell her at present.

*' When we spoke — on this — this subject
— before — you told me, you thought
your time for love had not yet come — "
said the poor curate, stammering piteously.
"And now "

"And now, I think it has come and
gone," in such a sad, low, steady voice,
that Mr. Wynch knew that all hope for
him was gone too.

And so when the Bishopric of

Polynesia was offered to him, he accepted
it unhesitatingly. " I could not have
taken her there," he said to himself.
'rand though I sorely feel the need of a
helpmate, I shall endeavour to do my
Master's Work without one." But the
poor man was destined to be made
happy, notwithstanding. While in this
frame of mind, he came to bid farewell
to his friends at the Vicarage, and
there he found his fate, after all.

MissPincock, of the Preparatory School,
was so disconsolate at the prospect of
parting from " one whom she had always
regarded as a dear friend," that it would
have required a far stouter heart than
poor Wynch's to omit proposing she
should accompany him. Such a proposal
was not likely to be rejected, and so
when the Polynesian ship, having onboard
the Bishop and the Bishop's
stockings and sermons, left the shores of
England, it took out also a more import

2

tant personage still, namely, the Bishop's
lady.

But all this time we are keeping this
distinguished pair waiting outside the
garden-gate, while in reality they have
been most warmly welcomed back to
England by the Vicar and his daughter,
and also stared at mercilessly by a little
child who had run across the lawn from
behind the hollyhock hedge, for that
express purpose, and who now stood
leaning against the gate, with one hand
half down her throat, and one shoulder
half out of her frock.

"Who is that?" asked Mrs. Wynch,
suddenly catching sight of her, the
first brunt of the greetings being
over.

"That is Stephen Aylmer's child,"
said Honor, with a grave, sweet smile.
Stephanie, Stephanie, come and shake
hands with this lady."

But Stephanie declined the honour,

which, on the whole, was lucky perhaps,
both her hands being somewhat black
and grime, with the exception of the
fingers she had been sucking.

She has not been with us very long,
and I am afraid we have spoilt her a
little," said Honor, apologetically, as the
child dashed off once more, and began
racing round and round the garden, to
the imminent peril of the Bishop's legs.
"My father is very fond of her. He
calls her one of his eyes, and she really is
very handy with him. But come in now
and rest. I will tell you all about her
another time."

It was not, however, till some days had
elapsed, that Honor fulfilled her promise.

"Whilst we were at Pierreport we
became acquainted with a Miss Murray,
who happened to be living there at the
same time," she said to Mrs. Wynch one
day. "Did I ever tell you anything
about her ?"

No, you did not, but the Bishop did,"
replied the Bishop's lady, promptly.

Read that, then," said Honor, opening
a drawer, and taking from thence a letter
which she placed in her friend's hands.

They went out and sat under the old
ivy-twined verandah. Honor took some
work with her, a little lace-trimmed frock :
it seemed just like one of those she used
to sew at in the old days. The child
Stephanie played about the garden. Mrs.
Wynch opened the letter.

It was dated just a year ago, and was
written in trembling characters, with,
towards the end, short detached fragments
of sentences, such as dying lips might
gasp between their last quivering, hard-drawn
breaths.

It was in truth a message from the
dead.

Futtehquah, August 4, 187 — .

Dear Honor,

*' Have you forgotten Valentine

Murray? Can you ever forgive Valentine
Aylmer? I scarcely think either
possible ; and yet something impels me
to write to you to-day.
" It is just six years since we met, you
and I, in that strange fashion in the sea
at Pierreport. I scarcely thanked you
then for what you did for me. I wronged
you afterwards — not consciously at first,
believe me, for you told me nothing, and
when I guessed it was too late.

'' I do not think I wronged Stephen,
for I loved him. It is true I would have
married anyone in those days, in order to
escape from Glraf von Reichenau, towards
whom I entertained an unreasonable
dislike. But I loved Stephen honestly
and truly, and altogether independently of
that ; I loved him from the first moment
I saw him standing at the gate of our
house, smiling in your face. I love him
still so perfectly, so passionately, that had
I known then all I know now, I think I

would have killed myself sooner than have
married him. Oh Honor, if God is love,
why does He permit so much evil to be
wrought, so much sorrow to be brought
into the world in the name of Love ?

I wrote that yesterday. I cannot
write much at a time. To-day the answer
seems to be, because we give the name of
love to many things that are not love at
all, or at least, only self-love.

Honor, you rescued me from drowning
and you nursed me through a
dangerous illness ; but I do not think you
ever knew what sort of life it was you
saved thus twice over, nor in what
manner you would be requited. You did
not know that day by day I stole your
love away, and night after night my
father robbed him of his gold. For hours
together, when you perhaps were calmly
sleeping beside little Grades, I was
watching their play. I saw it, I knew it,
but I could not help it. I could not save

him from mj father, any more than I
could save him from myself.

Will you hate me the more for telling
you this ? I scarcely think so. Tout con-maitre
chest tout pardonner, and you who
were so brave and strong in the old days
must of necessity be tender and pitiful
now. Perhaps he would be happier if he
knew he was forgiven.

He is not happy now. He never
laughs as he used to laugh, nor talks ashe
used to talk. He works all day
long, and is very tired and silent at
nights. He has to work so hard,
for he has paid all, or at least, a great
part of my father's debts. I do not
think he quite knew at first how much
he was undertaking, but he has accomplished
it at last. Gras von Eichenau came
forward and offered too (men are sometimes
so generous, so forgiving even towards
women who have wronged them),
but Stephen would have none of his help.

He has chosen to clear his father-in-law's
name by himself. ' It is a point of honour
that I should do it alone,' he said.

'' He has never touched a card since
that terrible time. He never allows
himself any amusement. His face is
very calm, very grave, but there is a
hopeless look about it that frightens me
sometimes. He is good and kind to me and
the child, but oh ! Honor, he does not love
me — I know he does not love me any longer.

How or why it is, I do not know. I
think he liked me once in a certain sort of
way, but even that is over now. Perhaps
I never really touched his heart. Perhaps
— but I dare not linger thus, I have
so much to say, and so little time in which
to say it.

*' Honor, we have a little child — five
years old — whom we have called Stephanie.
And, Honor, I am dying — the doctors
say so now. T have known it a longtime.


Last year I was rebellious, I prayed
not to die. But now I know it will be
best. Now I hope that

Tho' my lamp was lighted late,
There's One will let me in.'

When you get this I shall be dead.
But you have promised, have you not?
Is my mind wandering ? Do you understand?
Do I understand? I seem to
have learnt so many things lately.

"This morning, at sunrise, a young
married lady came to see me. She is an
American by birth, but brought up in
France, and lately married to an ofi6.cer in
the English army. She is lonely sometimes,
for her husband's duties keep him
much away from her. She comes to seeme
very often, and we have become great
friends. She is a little older than I am as
far as years go, but very much younger in
feeling and appearance.

She brought some photographs to show

me to-day. She is, in truth, almost as
much French as American, for when
she was quite a child, her father first
rented, then bought, a property in the
south of France, and they have lived there
ever since. Among the photographs was
one of her old home. It must be a beautiful
place ; a turreted house, with great
trees growing round it. It is called Chateau
de Coulanges, near Aries, in Provence.
Somehow, as I looked at the
picture, both the name and the place
seemed to grow familiar to me.

*' She told me the chateau had originally
belonged to an old Royalist family, which
had dwindled down to two daughters, and
finally become extinct. One of the daughters
she remembered having seen when
she was a child. She was an invalid.
She was married to an Englishman. She
lived in a little cottage not very far from
the chateau, and she died there, too, many
years ago.

But the property was sold even before
the poor lady's death, for the English husband
was a spendthrift and a gambler, and
continually in want of money. She could
not remember his name. He was not
often with his wife. But, Honor, I think
I have guessed it, and I fancy you will do
so too.

She knew something of the other
sister too. She had been a nun, and had
only died a year or two ago. An old
woman who had come back to Coulanges,
where she had lived in her youth, had told
the family at the chateau a little about
her. She had been the Countess' maid
before she took the veil, and as her mistress
had entered a convent at Pierreport,
on the coast, the maid had lived in the
same town till the nun died. Then she
had come back to her native village to die
herself.

There was a photograph of the Countess
before she became a nun, among some

other portraits my friend had brought me.
It was a photograph taken from a picture.
The face was oval, the eyes looked dark
and deep, the hair was smoothly braided,
as the fashion was years ago. Under the
picture a name was painted. It was indistinct
in the photograph, but I made it out
at last. It was the name that was engraved
on that little shabby Livre heures we
found in the old box, the name my father
murmured with his dying breath — the
name ' Edmee.'

Things often look sharper, clearer, more
distinct at sunset than in all the long
day before. In this sunset hour of mine
I seem to be seeing many things I missed
before ; a step here, a pathway there,
finger-posts everywhere. The tangled
web of life is unravelling itself before my
eyes as it slips away out of my hands.
There was a convent at Pierreport ; there
was a nun, Soeur Genevieve, I think, byname,
whose shadow seemed now and then

to flit across our path. She had a pale
oval face, and deep dark eyes; she was
with my father at the last ; I do not know,
but I like to think it was Edmee.

"It is strange how one clings to life,
even to such a poor, useless, wasted life
as mine has been. And yet I know it is
best that the cords should be loosed now.
Stephen will not miss me long, the child
will forget me soon. But you will be
good to her. Honor, will you not ? You
will teach her to be a better woman than
her mother has been, or could have taught
her to be either, I fear.

Stephen will send her to you. He
has promised to do so — as soon as — at
once. He is going back to England
himself next year. His seven years'
residence will then have expired. Perhaps
he will not find it necessary again to
return to India, Anyway he will see
you, and the child —

'' But I shall be dead.

It is better so — oh ! so much better,
and yet the pain of dying is great —

"I had more to say, — but I cannot
remember now — perhaps, tomorrow — "

And there it ended, the unfinished
letter, the incomplete life.

At the bottom of the page a few abrupt
words were scrawled in another hand.

She was mistaken, poor soul. I was
mistaken too. So many lives are mistakes
all through. And the sunset time always
comes too late. Is there no way of instilling
right judgment and true purpose
into a young dawning life ? Honor, will
you take the child ? If so, write the
word, and she shall be with you by
Christmas time."

Mrs. Wynch's eyes were glistening, and
her sallow cheeks were shining, as she
folded up the letter once more.

*' What else could I do ?" said Honor,

throwing her arm round the child, who
was now standing beside her. " She
came to me on the Feast of the Holy
Innocents."

Nothing but what you have done, my
dear," said the happy Bishop's lady, in a
voice choked with sympathy. '' And
what — and what — I hope you will do."

In the furthest room in the Uffizi
Palace in Florence, there hangs a circular
picture of the Blessed Virgin-mother with
her babe in her arms, and a book on her
lap, and six smiling flower-faced angels
set round about her. One angel-head,
the smallest of all, is more beautiful than
all. Its face is upturned and adoring,
its eyes are brown and full of wonderful
light, its hair is sun-lit, and rippling over
with curls. The picture was painted by
old Sancho Botticelli. It is his masterpiece,
people say.

Before it, almost any day last winter,

VOL. II. X

you might have seen a girl standing and
gazing — a tall girl, with slightly stooping
shoulders, and a sweet pale face.

Sometimes she came with a little child,
sometimes with an old man ; oftener still
with a man neither old nor young, but
whose face was dark, and grave, and
rather sad, and who hung about her in a
strangely touching wistful way.

It is so like her — so like her," murmured
the girl one day.

So like her, that I have painted a
copy of the head for you," answered her
companion gently. " I intended to be a
painter once, you remember, and then I
gave up that profession, as I have given
up other and better things in life.
Mais on revient toujours a ses premiers
a moulds, as French people say, and I have
a fancy — for — going back to art once
more. Come and see my sketch. Honor,
and tell me what you think of my chances
of success. It is not well done, I know.

It has not the bright, buoyant, spiritual
look which the child had — which the
angel has — but still come and see, and

tell me "

She told him with her eyes, as she
walked away by his side.

And so they faded away out of sight,
Stephen and Honor, and the old man,
and the little child. Somewhere, I am
sure, Honor is happy now ; happy in herself
and the source of happiness to others.
The sky that hangs over us cannot
always be dark and gloomy, for if it is the
roof of earth, is it not also the floor of
heaven ? Honor's clouds have Hated at
last, and the glorious sunshine of love is
pouring down upon her ; but still as
she looks back at those dark moments
of her life, she believes that even then
the stars were shining. She could not
see them, because her eyes were dim
with tears, and her heart too heavy

to be uplifted. But there they were all
the same. Perhaps, by-and-by, she will
repeat this to little Stephanie. Perhaps,
by-and-by, very gently and tenderly, she
will tell her how a life, even of the
saddest, and most spoilt by earth's sins
and passions, may yet be chequered here
and there by stray gleams of goodness and
sweetness. But above all, she will show
her how such gleams should be gathered,
and brought to bear on all her actions ; fordo
not these lights, faint and feeble as
they often are by their passage through
our denser atmosphere, yet emanate from
the Source of all Light ?

And so Honor's life goes on, and the
Virgin's hand in the picture still points
to the Magnificat, and " the mercy of the
Lord is upon them that fear him, from
one generation to the other."

THE END.
