E. R.AR.Y

OF THE
U N verity
or ILLINOIS



Eci57vw

V.2

^( i

f t*^

^^ytfe^i^^^^K^ 'J^^W

vW

■WV^-^

An angel trust that murmurs " Come what may,

No fond regret shall tempt my feet to stray

From the strict path of mortified desires."

Though hearts are weak, lips need not so be liars.

Had there been any choice, I do not say

I should have chosen this dull rugged way.

This way of stones and faints, and wayside briars.

What then ? I grieve not, faint not. God is kind.

He gives me strange sweet flowers that push between

The flints, — such as no garden ever bore :

And gathering these, how can I choose but mind

What thankful hearts have gleaned where now I glean,

What patient feet have passed this way before?

E. C. LEFIUiY.

^ sbtm

BY

MRS EDMONDS

AUTHOR OF

'^ Fair Athens ^^ "Hesperus ^^ Greek Lays'

IN TWO VOLUMES

VOL II

LONDON
REMINGTON & CO PUBLISHERS

HENRIETTA STREET COVENT GARDEN



[All Rights Reserved]

All things have grief at times. When high winds shake it,
The grove is grieved with plaintive murmuring ;

So grieves the woodland bird when fowlers take it,
To feel the net encompassing its wings ;

And so the heart when peace and joy forsake it

At Love's ravishment.

E. C. Leirot.

One more look at the garden where she had
passed so many happy moments, each leading
up step by step to that supreme
moment of all, when the young man's hands
had imprisoned hers that held the marigold
in his strong and passionate grasp, and when
her own love stood confessed before him.
With true delicacy Mrs. Hazelhurst and
Helen had forborne to intrude their attentions
upon her this morning, and had left her

VOL. II. B

for a few hours communing by herself.
They had naturally considered that a fresh
accession of grief would naturally be aroused
on this, the last morning.

That short-lived love affair, so recently
torn up by the very roots, must needs
leave some poignant memories in the heart
whence it has been so ruthlessly plucked,"
soliloquized Mrs. Hazelhurst, with some touch
of sympathetic sentiment in her heart ; " it
must take a little time to get over it
altogether, although it was so absurd in
both of them. They'll find out before very
long that it was really an absurd business ;
and then their wounds will beat fast enough,
as I do not think that there are any two
persons in the world who would more dislike
the imputation of silliness than Miss Miles
and my nephew." So thought Mrs. Hazel-hurst
as sbe ordered the carriage to be in
waiting, and without any comment quietly
bade Helen prepare to accompany her. " It
is the only courtesy that I can show her ;
silence and not words will better suit her
present mood," and Mrs. Hazelhurst sighed
involuntarily, almost dreading the approaching
farewell.

But Mars had overcome. Although the
night had been stormy the morn arose in
sunshine. Love and peace had sung their
benediction in her bosom with the returning
light of this new day, for the onward path
lay clear and well-defined before her mental
vision.

One more look at the garden. The wicket
gate was unfastened; she pushed it gently
and went in. No one apparently had entered
it, or trodden upon that walk since she had
paused there awhile to strip off some superfluous
leaves from her handful of mary golds
before she offered them to her lover, and
there they lay where they had fallen —
scorched, dried up, and withered. She
stepped over them and passed on. The
hewn down trunk was lying in the same
position in which it had been felled, falling
with a crash as the sound of the gong met
her ears. Splinters and chips were scattered
all around. " Only four days ago," she said,
softly, and her thoughts leapt with a bound
to that half-dreamt-of heaven of free life
and liberty, unshackled by conventionalities,
in a far-off land. She recalled it, and the
manly form of the young woodsman with his

uplifted axe and glowing face, but no trace
of weakness was visible in her retrospective
glance. She had gone through a fiery ordeal,
and had come out purged of all dross. The
future lay before, mapped out in clear decisive
lines, and in that outlook there was no stain
of self-seeking. She almost felt something
akin to gladness that she had been strong
enough to release her young lover, that she
had of her own free will given the son back
to his mother; she, who had held him in bonds
stronger than life, had with her own hands,
with her own lips, loosed him. For one
moment, as she measured the wide gap
yawning between that past dream of love and
the dim future, her lips quivered, but only
for a moment. She walked slowly towards
the arbour. She would sit for a few moments
on the log seat, and let her eyes drink in the
whole scene, and then farewell for ever to the
chestnuts with its hamadryad myth, to her
garden and dreams of love ; and welcome
again the scholastic life, the scholastic calm .
She put back the trailing boughs, but the
seat was occupied by Joe — Joe, fresh from
his native element, the muck heap.
« Joe ! ''

"I humbly ask pardon, Miss Miles," cried
Joe, springing up so suddenly that he almost
performed a somersault in his endeavour to
preserve his equilibrium. " T hadn't thowt
you'd be a-coming here, miss ; but I'm clean
dazed about your going away, an' it's all
throw Master Stevenson that I stan' afore
you in this plight. I ask Master Stevenson
to let me off an hour t' morning just to
make myself a bit tidy to come and give you
my booty, but a' wouldn't, and sent me off ina
liffey to the muck heap agen. ' Xhe
mushroom bed must be made up at once,'
he say, and o' course I had to go ; but I
could na' work, I could na', so I throw it all
op and come here."

Left your work, Joe ? "

I told Master Stevenson straight off
he'd better look out for some other helper
who didn't mind being alleys over head an
heels in the muck pit. I'd as lief be a
zanterpede.^^

[It is needful to state that Joe had been
present at a lecture on natural history, which
had been given during the previous winter
for the express purpose of enlightening the
aborigines, but the only residuum of which,

SO far as Joe was concerned, was the single
word " centipede," or, as Joe preferred to say,
zanterpede."]

You need not have been so rash, Joe. I
should not have left Sunnyside without
bidding you good-bye."

It goes kinder through me to hear you
say the word, miss ; and me an' you, so to
speak, who've been at the work together. It
wa' like holiday-time almost to come here
an' get away from that — " Joe was nearly
being committed to something very much like
an oath, but he brought himself up suddenly
with a snort. " Ista, a' didn't care nowt
when I could come here nows an' tiens an'
have a real lady to talk with — thar nowt all
real ladies that goa by the name by a long
way, but you be a real lady — more like a
erratum than ought else."

Like what, Joe ? "

"A erratum! a erratum !^^ cried Joe,
with emphasis. " Bide wi' me jest the
weight of a feather, miss ; but you know the
large winder at the church, jest over what
Master Ashcroft reads out o' book ? Thar
be a lady in that winder wi' a blue gown
tied round wi' a gold string, and wi' her hair

all wrinkles crackle, like a leaf o' wormwood,
an' I alleys tHowt her face looked so good
like that many a time when Master Ashcroft
be a-preaching I've kept myself awake
by looking at it. One day I made bold, and
say to Master Ashcroft, I say, ' Who be
that lady, Master Ashcroft ? ' It wa' when
I took up the flowers for Easter, and Master
Ashcroft say, ' It be one of the erratum.
Can't you see the wings, Joe ?' j^ow, I never
see the wings — they're folded all straight
down her back, like — an' I war alleys looking
at her face and the crinkly- frankly haar."
Joe paused. " 'Sense me, miss, but if yow'U
believe me, the very first time you come here
I say to myself, ' That lady be jest like the
erratum in the winder ' — that's what I say,
miss. An' a real erratum you've been tome
all through."

Joe's unusual effort at eloquence had
brought a large amount of perspiration to his
forehead, which, now trickling down, hung
in suspended drops on his bristly red eyebrows.
As, however, this flow of words had
brought no remark from Miss Myles, who
regarded him all through with a sweet
gravity which seemed to discompose him

exceedingly, he suddenly broke out in a
voice quite at variance with what the subject
would seem to demand —

** I shall go and ask Master Ashcroft to
marry me''

** Marry you, Joe ? " said Mary, gently.
Just now you grieved me by telling me
that you had thrown up your place, and now
you talk about marrying."

There's nowt left for me to do."
"May I ask who you are thinking of
marrying now that you are out of work ? ''
A father who lives in a cottage nigh."
Have you spoken to her, Joe ? "
** Noa, but I've only to hold up my
finger, in a manner o' speaking, an' I know
the father '11 say, 'Yes, Joe ; an' gladly.'
I haven't spoke, but I've wrote ; an' if you'll
be kind enow as to gi' a look at it, as you bea
right great scholar, they tell me, I'll
thank you kindly."

Joe thereupon fumbled first in one pocket
and then in another. His pockets seemed to
be interminable, and of such capacious dimensions
that commodities of the most heterogeneous
kinds were stowed away, and apparently
lost for a time, for as he dived

down into them and brought up everything
but that for which he sought, it was evident
from his frequent change of countenance that
the forgotten contents surprised him as they
made their appearance one after another.
At last, however, he succeeded in emancipating
from a deep recess, where it had got
entangled between a wisp of whipcord and a
comb, a very crumpled and begrimed piece
of paper.

Mary smiled as she watched him unfolding
and smoothing it out with an air of pride
and satisfaction.

I am glad to see that it is not very long,
Joe, as my time is getting short," she said, as
she took the very unlovely paper from his
hands.

Noa," answered Joe, with evident satisfaction,
" it's not long, but it's to the point,
like."

And Mary read —

Moi DEAR,

i will mary yow when yow plus.

'' Joe"*

** Bennet it now to the point, miss ? "

The above is a literal transcription of an East Anglian offer
of marriage before the days of Board Schools.

But yon must not send it, Joe."

I've nowt else to do," said Joe, sulkily,
'' 'kept be a cantered."

You must not do this, Joe. I should he
grieved to hear you were going wrong, as I
shall always take an interest in your welfare ;
but go wrong you will if you do anything so
foolish as either of the two things you have
just mentioned. Go back to your work, Joe,,
and trust to time. I may some day be glad
to hear that you have risen from helper to
be under gardener, and when that is accomplished
it will be time enough to ask some
young woman in marriage. Why, you are
only twenty. In five years' time — "

Some sudden thought checked the conclusion
of her sentence; but Joe was unconscious
of any compelled reticence on her
part.

Five years ! five years ! " cried Joe.

Go back to your work," resumed Miss
Myles, in a lower and gentler tone ; " I will
speak in your behalf to Mrs. and Miss Hazel-hurst.
Miss Hazelhurst has long taken a
great interest in this garden. I know that
she will like to have it kept up as it is. I
will ask her to put it in your hands. You

know well low to do everything here. Keep
it up exactly as I should like it to be kept up.
Fancy that I am still here."

'^ How am I to do that ? " interrupted Joe
bluntly.

By thinking every day whilst you are at
work that I shall soon be back fco see how
you are getting on."

Joe gave a grunt of disbelief.

See, now, there's work for you at once ;
to bring up that log you see yonder, that
stump which Mr. Langridge cut down. Trim
it up and place it side by side with this one."

As she spoke she lightly touched Joe's
stubborn shoulder.

Don't you come nigh me. Miss Miles ;,
don't come nigh me. I be nowt for the
likes of you to touch."

I want your promise, Joe ; your promise
that you will go back to your work. If you
do not like it now, yet in hopes of something
better the work will seem lighter. It is
your duty, Joe ; but if that is not enough, go
back for my sake — for my sake. And now
good-bye, Joe."

She put out her hand.

I fare kinder dazed, miss," said poor Joe,,

huskily ; " I don't fare like as I used to faro.
I down t fare like my oAvn self."

'' Never mind, Joe'* said Mary, seeing his
ineffectual attempts to rub one hand clean
upon his corduroys. " Never mind. This is for
moving the stump. Good-bye," and she thrust
a sovereign into the rough, begrimed hand
that Joe was holding back as too defiling for
her touch. '' Good-bye, and God bless you''

But Joe had fallen upon his knees and had
kissed her feet.

It was about three weeks after the events
just narrated had occurred that Mrs. Hazel-hurst,
whose house was now full of visitors
who had been invited for the express purpose
of banishing, if possible, those disturbing recollections,
received the following letter from
her sister —

"My Dear Kate,

I would not write until I could
give you something reassuring, a really firm
basis whereupon you might rest content.
Although I was never myself otherwise than
confident as regards the ultimate result, yet
I would not impart to you my impressions

until they were justified by facts. First and
foremost then, Herbert has as much got over
his late folly as if such a person as Miss Myles
had never existed, which plainly shows that
she is an intriguing, artful woman, who knew
how to hold him in her toils, but whose influence
or power required the constant machinations
of visible presence, and vanished away
like a fitful dream the moment that he was
snatched from that baleful spell. When I
reflect upon what might have been the consequence
had Herbert been less straightforward
and conscientious, I tremble ; Miss
Myles is just the kind of woman who might
wreck the peace of any family. I now confess
to yourself that she even began to work
upon my own susceptibilities. The very look
of her alone carries in it something of the
force of an electrical current. I shudder as
I recall it. How you could ever have a
woman in your house possessing such subtle
attractions it puzzles me to imagine. Why,
she is exactly the type of woman which all
history shows to be a subjugating power to
mankind. Beautiful, gifted, and unprincipled
what more is wanting — except opportunities ?
And you could not see it. She was undoubtedly

playing a deep game, posing as
the prim governess with stiff white collar,
etc. ; but the topic is an irritating one which
I have no pleasure in recalling. My lady
doubtless thought that she had entrapped a
wealthy fool of a boy who could be decoyed
into a clandestine marriage. But enough of
her. Herbert is too proud to confess his
silliness, or to acknowledge his unfilial conduct
in the affair, but he is evidently heartily
ashamed of it. He is now himself again,
wholly possessed with a noble ambition, and
a desire to distinguish himself in the world's
arena, and has suddenly in almost a marvellous
way entirely thrown off the boy, and
is a man with all the feeling of a man's
responsibilities. He is changed ; his self-reliance,
formerly a quality in abeyance to
my own wishes, has come to the front, and
seeing how well it is working I do not feel as
once I might, because he no longer appeals tome
or consults me as formerly. This possibly
results from the late conflict in his mind, but
it is good. He is resolutely determined to
walk alone, but the path which he has chosen
is the one of all others which I should have
preferred for him. The Indian Bar is his

choice ; he is working terribly hard, too hard
possibly, but I do not expostulate, as it is
only the reaction consequent upon having
temporarily yielded to lower impressions. I
dare say the dear boy would be happier if he
could bring his mind to make a clean breast
of it, as they say, and thank me for my timely
intervention. Sometimes he regards me
fixedly for a few moments with so sad a look
that I feel that if I gave him any encouragement
it would bring him to a full explanation
of how it all came about ; but I think it better
not to invite such disclosures. I am quite
reconciled to his going to India, because it
will place the wide ocean between them, not
that I believe he would again succumb were
he accidentally to meet her, but it is better
to be on the safe side, and not risk a collision
with so wily a woman. I may eventually go
out to him ; who knows ? Hereafter / shall
never allude to that odious business, so in
future let it never be alluded to by yourself
either by word or letter.

Ever your affectionate and most thankful

Elinor."

**No, EHnor," said Mrs. Hazelhurst, as
she quietly tore up this letter into minute

fragments ; ** no, I shall certainly never allude
to it again. Complimentary! I cannot distinguish
between a noble-minded woman and
an adventuress, can I not ? Miss Myles has
annoyed me very much, but nevertheless I
do know the ring of true metal when I hear
it. If only she could have liked Dr. Grantham
all would have been right ! "

Where is your kingdom ? Within my own soul, where I keep
all things in order ; my passions obey reason, and my reason obeys
God.

St. Alphonsus de Liguoei.

Dearest love, forgive
That I can think away from thee and live !

Keats.

The expected arrival of a new head and
classical mistress in one, at the Girls'
Collegiate School of Chippenham, was a
subject which gave rise to much speculation
among the different grades of people inhabiting
that busy manufacturing centre and the
suburbs thereof. What she would be like,
both mentally and physically, engaged the
thoughts of all interested in that high-aiming
institution, whether parents or scholars. Of
her personality nothing was known. She

VOL. II.

had not been required to present herself
before the Committee who managed all the
funds and business matters connected with
the school. They, on the contrary, had presented
themselves before her, having made
known to her for several years that the post
was hers whenever she chose to accept it, but
that the lady then officiating would stay on
until such a decision was made, it being only
considered a question of time, the age of
Miss Myles having been hitherto an obstacle
to her immediate nomination, as no headmistress
was eligible under twenty-five, and
a few years in excess of that minimum were
even to be preferred. But this fact of age
had not been allowed to transpire outside the
ruling body, lest objections might be raised
on the score of youth to the appointment
upon which the Committee had set their
hearts. All that was definitely known was
that her name was Myles, which most of the
younger part of the community had voted
forthwith to be an ugly name, and, by a logical
conclusion, considered that the lady owning
such a name must needs be ugly also. It was
not supposed, on the contrary, that she could
be very old, from the fact of her having carried

off the honours at Girton College only a few-years
previously, and it was fresh in the
memory of all that the Committee had
announced with glee that they had secured
the winner of the classical tripos for their
mistress whenever the present lady principal
should deem it advisable, on account of delicate
health, to resign.

On Mary's side there was not much speculation
as to what her future would be at
Chippenham. There was her life mapped
out before her in a daily routine, uneven dl
and placid. At least, that was the life which
would meet the eyes of the outside world;
but she had another life within her with all
its pressing needs, and of this casket, closely
locked up from every mortal eye, she alone
held the key, and none but herself should
unlock it. Henceforth, to live as if she had
never met Herbert Langridge ? That could
hardly be, nor would she strive to attain
peace by any such cold negation and repudiation
of that sweet, but short-lived memory of
love, but she would live — though away from
him, separated by how many leagues, not of
sea and land merely'; but by other barriers
that seemed insurmountable. Yes, she would

live, and, if she could attain to it, live nobly ;
she would not beat out her heart against a
rock. Yes, she would live, as though it were
possible that he might come to claim her the
next week, and so for that coming she would
be always in readiness, with house decked
and garnished, nor gathering soil of time
allowed to harbour in any nook.

Sitting alone upon the morning after her
arrival in that neglected spot enclosed within
four walls which went by the name of a
garden, some sudden swelling of the throat
and tremor of the heart was caused by the
memory there conjured up of another garden,
which, from one scene in it, one scene alone,
was to her as the garden of Eden. With a
proud effort she exorcised those futile, regretful
reminiscences as an evil suggestion, and
as the whisper of a demon of hysteria. The
more healthy thought of present work to do,
the enticing charm that comes to some minds
in the consciousness of a power within, able
to create beauty out of ugliness, and order
from disorder, was aroused by the very
dreariness which would have plunged many
women so situated into the extremest slough
of incapable despondency. All the old loves

came back linked hand in hand — guelder
roses and musk roses, woodbine and cauliflowers,
thyme, marjoram, and lavender, birds
and bees, and a cherry tree for the starlings.
It was far enough away from the chimneys to
promise a fair return for any trouble bestowed
upon it. By the time Mary had planted tht
whole space in her mind, and seemed already
to hear it humming with insect life, and gay
with the song of birds, her eyes showed a
light in their depths which had not been
kindled there for many a day, and a colour
came and flickered upon her cheek like a
harbinger of a not far-off time when again
she would be thought of by men as too lovely
to be the head mistress of the High School
of Chippenham; which opinion would be
promptly followed by a laudable endeavour
to remove her to a sphere more worthy of her.
The space between four walls destined to
become if not a garden, yet the best semblance
of one which a pure taste could evolve from
its possibilities, had done more than philosophic
reasoning to dispel the sadness which
Mary had felt upon her arrival at Chippenham.
The rooms in the wing appropriated to her
were large and airy, but the furniture was

stiff and formal. There was nothing anywhere
either of that luxury to which she had
been accustomed at Sunnyside, nor of the
simpler elegance of her earlier home. The
thought "I must make some alteration here,"
although a decisive resolve, failed to banish
the feeling of dreariness and vacuity that
oppressed her. " After Sunnyside " — Sunny-side,
which in her waywardness she had
hardly appreciated — 'what is this?" The
novelty of a town life, as it might be called,
with a possible lack of refined and intellectual
society condemning her to isolation, had
weighted her mind heavily, in the prospect.
She stepped over the threshold back into the
house with a bosom somewhat lightened, asa
bright-eyed damsel handed her a salver on
which lay two cards — '' Mr. and Mrs. Bretton."


That same night she wrote the following
letter to Dr. Grantham, at Florence —

Collegiate School, Chippenham.
Dear Dr. Grantham,

You will hardly expect to hear
from me so soon, but I feel it imperative upon

me at once to confide to you all that has
transpired since you left. It may give you
some transient pain — I hope, I trust that it
will be but transient. Nevertheless, it is due
to us both that I should at once write to you
in truth and sincerity. I wish to retain your
good opinion. I believe you to be all that is
unselfish and good, bat I dare not think
that even your kind generosity towards me
could survive if you had reason to believe
that I had been guilty of falsehood and dissimulation
towards you. You will perceive
by the above address that I have suddenly
left Sunnyside. As it is scarcely a week since
you wrote to me you will at once think that
something must have occurred to cause such
a decision. You approved of my resolution to
come here, but you expected that it would be
delayed for perhaps some months.

" I hardly know how to open my heart to
you, I tremble lest my communication may
excite feelings prejudicial to your health, but
if you do not learn it from me you will learn
it from others, and it is better that you should
know it from myself. I have reason to believe
that our friendship, our mutual esteem, has
not been snapped by anything that has passed

between us. On my side, so long as life shall
last, I shall ever revere, and — yes — love you.
I shrink not from using that word, and, therefore,
I dare not — I dare not imperil the loss
of your affectionate regard. So it is better
that I tell you all frankly. When you read
and realize how I have suffered you will be
more inclined calmly to consider what I
write, and you will believe me. I took your
kind letter, brought to me by Mr. Herbert
Langridge on the morning of your leaving
Sunny side, into my garden retreat to read. I
read and reread it with tearful eyes. Do
you remember your postscript ? That postscript,
those few simple words, merely a
short praise of Mrs. Hazelhurst's nephew,
brought a sudden light into my soul — it was
a revelation ! As I sat in my arched bower —
you know it — I was conscious of a feeling
hitherto unknown to me. I can hardly say
that the discovery gave me pleasure. I was
startled, almost annoyed, nevertheless it was
there. Dear Dr. Grantham, through that
postscript I discovered that I loved Herbert
Langridge ! I will not disguise from you
that I previously knew that the young man
had conceived an attachment for me upon our

very first interview, but I was indifferent, or
supposed myself to be so. I solemnly declare,
dear Dr. Grantham, that no thought of Mrs.
Hazelhurst's nephew influenced me on that
unhappy morning. As far as I then knew, I
was heart free ; I sometimes think so still.

Stirred as I was by this new-born consciousness,
I might yet have avoided the
catastrophe that followed had not Herbert
Langridge come that morning into my garden.
In less than one hour we were engaged lovers.

And now, alas ! I have to confess to you
what I would willingly conceal. Your own lips
had told me that my tranquillity of manner
and appearance, which you recognized as
the garment that veiled a warm, responsive
nature, had been my special attraction in
your eyes. Ah, my dear friend ! what will
you say when I tell you that a few contemptuous
words from Herbert Langridge' s
mother stripped off that garment, and that I
gave way to undignified wrath and resentment.
Never through my life had contumely in any
form come near me ; never had I any temptations
to anger. I was proud of my fancied
supremacy over the common herd in respect
to those feelings ; proud, too, of some poor

gifts, and having lived somewhat aloof from
society so-called, I was unaware that any
mother could despise me for her son — despise
me !

Through an agony of suffering from injured
pride I came to a better knowledge ;
I gave up my newly-found love ; we are
parted — perhaps for ever ; we are parted
until the sanction of the mother who has devoted
her life to her son is freely given, freely
offered. I am proud still, so far; and I am
here. Herbert and myself meet not again
until his mother solicits me to be his wife.

'' And now, dear Dr. Grantham, forgive
me if you think that you have aught to forgive.
Do not offer me pity; I do not like
pity. I shall survive this sorrow, and already
it seems that all bitterness has passed out of
it.

I pray for you daily that your health maybe
restored, and trust that you will enjoy
visiting the beautiful lands in which you
design to sojourn for some time to come.
Ever yours, gratefully,

Mary Myles."

This letter found Dr. Grantham at his

sister's prettily situated villa, about half-an-hour's
drive from the fair city of Florence.

How beautiful was the scene outspread
before him ! how glorious the golden sunlight,
the lucid atmosphere! Afar off lay
the city, whose many towers and spires were
clearly defined against the blue sky. Dr.
Grantham drew a deep breath as though he
were drinking in a new life of health and
happiness, when a letter was put into his
hands.

He had been more than human if its perusal
(when his not so long ago declared love and
its consequent rejection by the writer be taken
into account) had not caused him some agitation.
His philosophy and reason had not as
yet assumed altogether their rightful supremacy
over feeling and emotion. The two
well-known lines of the poet came vividly to
him, so that at first it was not sympathy, but
rather envy, that dominated him. The young
man whom he had commended — a boy in the
eyes of Dr. Grantham — had won the hitherto
impregnable fortress of Mary's heart. The
lovers, for very reasonable motives as viewed
from any mother's point of view, were not to
be united, as far as it appeared at present;

at least it was indefinitely deferred, and that
was of itself a deed of separation for ever in
the generality of cases when the lover was
a youth of but twenty years old ; unless,
indeed, his character was an exceptional
one.

This young man had seemed to him to have
great promise, and now, as he mused over
some circumstances of his meetings with him,
he recalled those early morning visits, and
particularly that one occasion when, having
sent for him to his bedside in order that he
might thank him personally for his attention,
he had been surprised by the stammering and
blushing eagerness with which the young man
strove to assure him that it was for Miss
Myles's sake only, she, who was naturally in
such distress, and who was so anxious, that he
came every day at early morn in order that
he might carry to her the first welcome news.
If, as it was now proved, the boy loved her
then, but was under some misconception in
respect to her feelings, how generous and
noble it was to act as her servitor when his
young heart was bleeding.

He is worthy of her love," said the doctor
to himself, " and he is rewarded ; the love of

such a woman does not fall to the lot of one
man out of a thousand once in a century."

So thought Dr. Grantham under the illusion
of a not yet thoroughly conquered
passion. Of the grief of separation at that
moment he hardly took any account. If there
were loss thereby it was far outweighed in
his estimation by the gain of there having
been mutual love ; they were happy in that
memory — although they were parted.

The question, however, was not one upon
which he felt inclined to dilate, so in a very
few words he wrote to assure Miss Myles that
he could never at any time doubt that truth,
which was so resplendent a feature in her
character, and that he highly approved of the
course she had taken in hastily leaving Sunny-side
and assuming a position in every respect
more suitable for her.

The curtain now falls. When it rises again
ten years will have passed — ten years, withall
their changing seasons of springs and
summers, autumns and winters. The scenes
will not have been shifted. Upon the actors
only in this simple drama of every-day life
will changing time have set its seal.

To look forward for ten years at certain
epochs of life seems an eternity. To the
boy or girl what does it not signify ? Seldom
do they, however, care to realize what ten
years may bring forth. Through all the
bright visions which hopeful youth may conjure
up as attendant upon the future, there
will yet creep in unbidden the shadow of a
phantom guest which seldom leaves a homestead
or family circle unvisited for ten
years.

To look back for ten years, to some ardent
ones in the full flush of strength and courage
may be a kind of triumphant record of how
they have stepped firmly from stone to stone
in the steep ascent to success, and never
once slid in all their climbing. Brave souls !
over whose paths it seems to have been
written that the besetting dangers should be
to them as naught, as though they themselves
were pre-ordained to be beacons for the fainthearted
and stumbler, bidding them to take
courage by their example, for it was not so
difficult after all.

Oh! men and women sure of foot and
keen of sight, having no tremors and misgivings,
rejoice that you miss not your pathway

between the rocks ; but be careful also
to keep your beacon lights well trimmed that
they may show a clear and steady flame to
those weaker ones who follow in your foot-tracks
!

Life ! I know not what thou art,

But know that thou and I must part,

And when, or how, or where we met,

I own to me's a secret yet.

Life ! we have been long together,

Through pleasant and through cloudy weather ;

'Tis hard to part when friends are dear,

Then steal away, give little warning,

Choose thine own time ;

Say not " Good-night," but in some brighter clime

Bid me " Good-morning."

Mrs. Baebauld.

De. Bentham lay on his death bed.

Is there anything more that I can do
for you, dear friend ? " asked the Yicar, who,
sitting by his bedside, held one of the sick
man's hands between both his palms.

Mr. Ashcroft had been for more than an
hour receiving at intervals last messages,
which he was charged to deliver to the wide

circle of college friends and literary associates
among whom the doctor had passed so large
a portion of his almost chequered life.

Is there anyone else ? " repeated the
Vicar, gently.

'' The little governess," gasped the dying
old man.

Who ? " said Mr. Ashcroft, tremulously.

'mary Myles."

What of her, dear Dr. Grantham ? "

What of her ! " There was a long pause,
some struggling emotion made breathing
difficult. '' Everything of her ! "

"You mistake me," said Mr. Ashcroft,
tenderly ; " I meant what is the message you
wish that I shall convey to her ? "

No message ! no message ! no message
to Mary Myles."

The Vicar made no reply.

'' I must see her once more before I die !
Once more ! only once more ! Telegraph to
her to come tomorrow — tomorrow. Pray
that I may be spared until tomorrow. When
I have looked once more into her face then,
Lord, Thy servant can depart in peace ! "

Still the Vicar made no answer ; but his
countenance showed the doubts and per-vol.

11. D

plenty which were struggling within him.
The name of Mary Myles had not passed
between them for ten years.

"Why do you not answer, Charles?" said
Dr, Grantham, and a faint smile struggled to
the surface. " Be not afraid, she will come."

The thought in the good Yicar's breast
was —

'' Ought she to come ? ought she to be
asked to come ?"

She will come." repeated the doctor, in a
more resolute tone. '' I have no fear that
the black sail will be hoisted, though ten
years ago I was too old to be her Tristan.
She will come to bid the old man ' Farewell '
before he goes hence."

The Yicar looked still more troubled.

How cruel it was ! " murmured the dying
man. " ' They ben black as pitch ben their
hue,' and the sails were white ! the sails were
white ! How cruel ! "

His mind is going, he is wandering,"
said Mr. Ashcroft to himself.

He had never read of the loves of Tristan
and Ysolde, nor Sir Walter Scott's clever
restoration of a sequel to the fragment of
the old romance, and he sighed in compassion

for the (to him) most perceptible aberration
in the mind of his dying friend.

The sick man raised his hand as if in
expostulation. His breath was laboured.
In broken and fainter accents he articulated,
" Send for Mary Myles to come tomorrow,"
and lay back exhausted with closed
eyes.

As you wish it, my good friend ; I will go
and telegraph at once," said the Yicar, and he
pressed the hand of his old comrade a^g he
rose.

She will come," said Dr. Grrantham, as if
to himself, opening his eyes, which gleamed
with a strange light.

As the Vicar hastened to the Post Office he
thought : *' Is it possible ? Has that fancy
for Miss Myles lingered in the old man's
heart all these years ? What a pity ! What
a mistake it all was ! Well, she was one in a
thousand — that's true. How graceful she
was ! and that something in her look ! I
never could make it out ; but no one could
resist it," and at this point Mr. Ashcroft
indulged in some retrospection which might
have been interpreted by mariners that he,
too, had been under the witchcraft of the lady

whom he had Once likened so strangely to
Circe. " What a pity it all was ! " said the
Vicar, resuming the chain of the thoughts
which he had let drop whilst recalling Mary
Myles's steady grey eyes and classically poised
head. " An old man like that, and ten years
ago ! "

Mr. Ashcroft was a devout Christian priest ;
he was also a true and kind husband, but he
had never had any romance. His own love
affairs had, from beginning to end, been
smooth and unexciting. No clouds of doubt
had dimmed the horizon when he had determined
to ask for Lucy Dawson's hand. He
knew she loved him, and knew that no objections
would be raised by either family to the
union. His married life had been a fitting
sequel to his calm, unimpassioned courtship ;
a peaceful content in the plenitude of earthly
happiness, according to his standard, had
been fulfilled.

A sweet woman, certainly — a very sweet
woman ! With such talents as she has — a
remarkably sweet woman ! I always thought
so myself — always." With his mind still
alternating between the enthralling fascinations
of the lady in question and the strange

and unwonted persistency of an old man's
love, the Vicar found himself at the door of
the telegraph office, and for the first time
considered what form the message which he
had undertaken to send should take.

What am I to say ? " was the perplexing
idea uppermost, with the full belief impressed
upon his mind that the request about to
be forwarded was ill-judged and out of
place.

It will distress her beyond all measure,"
he mused; "not only will it bring back to
her mind all the old buried past, but the
very necessity of a refusal which it involves
will cause her exquisite pain ; and I — what am
I to say when I carry back to my poor friend
what, in his state, will seem so cruel ? Why,
it will kill him outright if he be in a condition
to understand it, for he was, surely,
wandering this morning ! Whatever did he
mean by ' sails black as pitch ben their
hue ?' I'll swear that was no quotation from
Homer."

It was, therefore, with a mixed feeling of
grief and annoyance that the Vicar telegraphed
to the Head Mistress of the High
School, Chippenham —

Dr. Grantham is dying. He wishes youth
join bim in his last Communion to-morrow
noon. Will you come?"

When a real or imagined duty, the accomplishment
of which is most distasteful to the
doer, is over and done, the mental atmosphere
generally clears again at once, and Mr.
Ashcroft, whilst sitting in the office awaiting
the answer to his telegram, felt considerably
relieved. His thoughts flew back, forgetful
of the present moment, to the old friend of
more than forty years, whose term of life was
hovering in a minute's balance ; perhaps
even now the fragile cord might be already
snapped.

Who can tell ? " said the Vicar, in a low
voice, as, stirred by these feelings, he rose up
and began impatiently to pace to and fro.
'' Who can tell ? To-morrow ! The sands of
life have so nearly run out that it is a question
if he be here to morrow."

This thought, with all the pain which it
involved, again brought back the reason of
his being where he was. No answer had
been returned as yet, and the time was overdue
when it might have been expected.

I must evade giving the poor fellow a

direct answer," continued Mr. Ashcroft, with
a blank look. " I cannot tell him that no
answer was returned," and then he bethought
him of the vexed question of expediency, or
truth at all times and at whatever cost,
whosoever may be slain by its declaration ;
and he got involved in a tortuous mesh about
how he could steer in equivocating so as to
avoid a direct falsehood, when the answer
was given to him —

I will come."

'' God bless me ! " cried the Yicar, startled
out of his usual propriety, " how extraordinary
! But like her," and his heart was lighter
than his feet as he trod his way back to the
bedside of his dying friend.

Dr. Grantham had a refreshing sleep, and
a bright look of gratitude greeted the Yicar.

The sails ben not black, eh, Charles ? " he
said, softly.

Without heeding the allusion to the
*' black sails," which had been such a puzzle
to him before, and seeing clearly that there
were no signs of delirium in the good doctor's
countenance, he contented himself with saying
simply —

The answer is : ' I will come.' "

*•' 1 knew it," said Dr. Grantham, softly.
'* God bless her ! "

The softened golden light of noontide on
one of the last days of a fine September shed
through the open casements and unshaded
windows of Dr. Grantham's chamber a refulgent
glow that lit up the whole room with a
kind of glory, a foretaste, as it were, of the
eternal sunshine whither the soul of the good
old man was hastening.

Draw back the curtains — more light —
more light" told all those assembled — all
those who had been often present at similar
scenes — that the summons had come. Many
who have heard those words from dying lips,
when the shadows have been closing round and
the eyes have been darkened, have taken those
simple words as meaning a spiritual signification.
The demand of the sufferer for light —
more light — tells ns rather that the Angel of
Death is close at hand. Draw back the
curtains, then, oh watchers by the deathbed,
let in the golden light of day to gladden
once more the fading eyes !

On the window sill a squirrel was nibbling
nuts. He had been a constant visitor there
during the whole summer, for the kind old

doctor had taken to himself the idea that this
particular squirrel was old like himself — a
tired wayfarer in life — although his coat was
as thick as ever, and his eye as bright as
any of his brothers ; but this idea was rooted
in the doctor's mind, so a small heap of nuts
already cracked were daily provided for him ;
and one of the many consolations of the
invalid was to watch his '' happy little
friend " at his diurnal meal.

*' Good-bye," said the doctor, smiling.
^' Tell Joe to see that little Brownie is never
forgotten. That's one message I forgot
yesterday. Poor little Brownie ! I don't
want him to miss me."

The room looked so bright and cheerful
with the flowers arranged by Mrs. Ashcroft,
which were none the less bright for the tears
which had fallen upon them — tears hallowed
by the tender memories of long years, of an
unbroken friendship, and now about to be
gently sundered for awhile.

There was some little anxiety visible on
the Yicar's countenance as he glanced first
at the evidently fast waning strength of
the dying man and then at his watch,
which already showed that some minutes

had elapsed since the time at which Miss
Myles was expected.

Were it not better to begin the service, "^
he thought, '' lest — "

He unclasped the hand in which his friend's
was held, and was about to rise, when the
doctor whispered —

Wait ! she has come — she is here."

Pausing, and looking towards the door with
an expression of wondering curiosity, there
were a few moments of anxious suspense,
when, unannounced, and in her travelling
dress, Mary Myles softly entered the room.

** God has sent me my dismissal by an
angel'' murmured the doctor, and feebly
raised his hand as a sign that the divine office
should commence.

Only once during that most touching rite
of the Christian Church did Dr. Grantham
unclose his eyes. When the closing Benediction
was uttered a halo of peace and happiness
glorified his face with a spiritual beauty
never before visible.

Leave us alone for awhile, dear friends,"
he pleaded, looking towards Mary for the
first time.

We are near, the nurse and myself,"

whispered Mrs. Ashcroft, " if you require
us," and Dr. Grantham and Miss Myles were
left alone together after an interval of ten
years.

Did you think it a selfish thing, child, for
an old man to send for you to come to hi
dying bed ? "

Mary for answer knelt down by his bedside,
and bending her uncovered head over
the hand she held, gently touched it with her
lips.

In the very deepest depths of my hearty
through all the long years which have passed
since we last met — since we last met — the
memory of you has been a fount of secret joy
of joy — child, not of pain. Take this
thought to your heart after I am gone. I
have never ceased to love you ; I have never
prayed once that I might cease to love you ;
but I have never ceased to pray that my love
might be a hallowed one, and wheresoever I
may find myself in the heavenly mansions, it
is my trust that I shall never cease ,to love
you evermore. For that gift of love which
came to me, all unworthy as it was of you,
was a light from Heaven, bringing a clean,
warm soul to a poor dead body encrusted with

the leprosy of a cold selfishness. Without
mother, or wife, or child, who can tell how
strongly rivetted the chains of an engrossing
egoism would have become, closing all
entrance of a higher life ? Mother, wife,
child — you have embodied in yourself all
those holy affections which redeem our lower
natures."

"Dr. Grantham," said Mary, softly, '' if it
will bring you any consolation in this hour,
know that you were never forgotten by me,
but that day by day through these long years
I have blessed you by name — you who, when
suffering, bad no word of blame or bitterness,
although you were suffering through
me.

"Through you? through you?" answered,
vaguely, as a momentary unconsciousness obscured
bis mental vision. " Still beautiful,
still beautiful," he murmured, as his dimming
eyes dwelt upon her face; 'but where is he,
the 'Entrance puer,' was it not thus the
Vicar called him ? The bridegroom tarryeth
long."

The confused images of the sick man s brain
touched the chords of her heart, and tears
came into Mary's eyes.

Yes, it is long, so long, dear Dr. Gran-than,
that at times I doubt if ever — "

If ever, if ever ; yes, the time is overlong;
but no one who has once loved Mary
Myles ever forgets. Can then one whom
she has loved, still loves, forget ? No, it is
not possible."

There was a compact made with his
mother, and Herbert Langridge was bound to
fulfil it," said Mary, firmly.

"Mrs. Langridge died last year," answered
the doctor, sadly. " Death has released him,
and the bond is annulled."

And the poor mother never saw her son,"
she answered, unheeding the suggestion.
'' Our love has been guilty of that wrong."

No, Mary; love nor thinks nor works
harm. It was self-love, selfishness, that
wrought all that woe. Poor foolish, misguided
mother," and overcome by emotion
Dr. Grantham fell back.

Speak no more of this, my dear old
friend," murmured Mary, tenderly raising his
head and administering a restorative ; "let
this sorrowful theme cease."

You are right," and there was silence fora
short space. " I will sleep now. Will you

watch awhile, my daughter ? " said the dying
old man.

Smiling acquiescence with tear-dimmed
eyes, Mary smoothed the pillows and supported
his head, and the sleep that so often
precedes death, as if sent in merciful preparation
for the last trying ordeal of the soul, fell
over him. Now and then a few half-articulate
words were murmured, scraps of old-world
learning mingled with Bible texts ;
once, like as when a few chords struck on the
harp-strings recall the whole struggles of a
people, so did the words of the old Scotch
song now hovering in broken cadences on
dying lips thrill Mary's heart with memories
of the past, and the gathered tears fell on the
hand she held, as she heard though indistinctly
—

Way, way, by the brae,
Way by yon burn side
Where I and my love wont to gae — "

There was a rustling of leaves among the
boughs as a little living creature swung
itself on to the window sill, and broke the
fitful slumber of the invalid, as it also
aroused the attention of the watcher.

Brownie ! Brownie ! Mary, are you
there ? " cried the sufferer.

Mary pressed his hand, a change had come
over his face, and the brightness of the dawn
before the day was upon it. He pointed to
a cabinet, and fumbled at a small key hanging
by a ribbon round his neck. Mary, divining
his meaning, released it, whereupon he signed
that she should bring the cabinet to him and
unlock it. As the lid fell back she saw that
it contained some antique jewels of great
price, and upon them lay a faded bunch of
harebells !

A half cry of pain and surprise escaped her
as she recognized the form of the delicate
stalks and the withered petals. In a moment
all came back— the woodland glade, and the
half revealed love as the shy youth tendered
his gift of flowers, with the words " I was
thinking of you when I gathered them," and
the little blossoms which an accident had
transferred into Dr. Grantham's keeping, were
here cherished by him all these years. She
wept silently, but checked the momentary
outburst of emotion as the old man spoke
again —

"My treasures — my best treasures — my
mother's bridal jewels, and the harebells
you once wore on your bosom. The first are

yours — to wear as a bride ; the last are milo
mine in death as in life. They shall go
with me into the grave." Seeing that he was
fast sinking, Mary was about to touch the
bell, but a pressure of his hand arrested her.
No, I will enter the valley with thee alone
by my side — with thee alone."

A bright light overspread his face.

** The bluebells — the bluebells; here, Mary,
here on my heart — bonnie, bonnie Scotland,"
and then in broken and disjointed utterance
came the half articulate words — " The winter
is past — the rain is over and gone. In —
manus — tuas — Domine."

His eyes looked at her wistfully, with their
fading light.

Kiss me — kiss me, Mary," he murmured.

Her lips touched his, and the warm tears
fell upon his chilling cheek, as with one faltering
word, " Nausikaa," the soul of the
good doctor passed away.

And they were Mary's hands which with
gentle touch smoothed the white hair which,
still untainted, fell round the ample brow of
the great scholar. It was she who wove
autumnal wreaths for the chamber of death.

Let us leave the sunlight with him," she

said ; " the rest of the house can put on its
mourning garb, but here let there be light.
Was it not light for which he lived ? "
And they let her have lier way, knowing how
the old man bad loved her, and sbe laid the
withered harebells on his breast and watched
by him all that day, whilst little Brownie
went and came and nibbled his nuts on the
window sill, sometimes peering round with
curious bright eyes as if he were seeking fora
welcome from the kind old friend who in
dying had not forgotten him, but had said ■^—
*' Let Brownie have his nuts as usual."

VOL. II.

Safe, thou dark home of the dead,
Safe, hide his loved head ;
Keep him close, close in thine arms
Sealed up nth a thousand charms.

Richard Crashaw.

Has Joe Brunning left Sunnyside ? " asked
Mary later on in the evening of the same
day, after she, the Yicar, and his wife had
each given their loving testimony to the worth
of him who had been just taken from them,
dwelling upon each well-known attribute as
the bereaved always love to linger over, and
record the actions and ways of those who
have been very recently removed. '^ Has
Joe left Sunnyside ? because I think that I
met him this evening as I was leaving
Braemar. I was rather startled for the
moment, as I was flitting along, to come

suddenly upon a man with a lantern, just outside
the second gate, on that narrow path.
He stood aside, and stopped short, but did not
speak, nor even give the customary salutation.
By the flickering light which the lantern cast
upwards upon him, I thought afterwards that
the face thus dimly shown resembled what
Joe might have developed into — at least it
reminded me of him, but he evidently did not
recognize me, and was apparently amazed at
meeting a woman on that by-path at that
hour, and alone."

Yes, indeed," said the Yicar, '' it was
very wrong and self-willed of you that you
would not allow us to fetch you."

Perhaps it was self-willed, but I know
every inch of the way, and my own thoughts
were companions enough. But tell me, could
it be Joe Brunning ? Where is he living, and
what is he now doing ? "

"You will be glad to her that Joe has been
living at Braemar for the last seven years.
Fletcher, as you know, died unfortunately at
Athens. He was imprudent, and he took
fever there, and our old friend has often told
us about the distress it occasioned him. He
was laid to rest in the pretty English cemetery

UNIVERSITY OF
Illinois LIBRARY

there, where the historian and Philhellene
Finlay is buried ; but his loss determined the
doctor to return home at once, as I wrote to
you at the time, although his health was
better in Greece than elsewhere, for having
thrown himself heart and soul into all the
aspirations of the modern Greek life he had
almost forgotten his ailments, but he could not
endure to remain absent from home when his
faithful Fletcher was no more, and upon his
arriving home, poor Joe being then out of a
place, he was taken on by the doctor, I expect
because he remembered that he had been one
of your loroteges!'

Then I fear my former garden has reverted
to its pristine state."

I believe that Stevenson keeps it up
after a fashion, but I have never seen it
since you left. Joe did not altogether please
Mrs. Hazelhurst apart from his frequent
collisions with Stevenson."

Poor Joe ! " sighed Mary, " he has a
good deal of stolidity in him, and requires a
gentle but firm hand to guide him, or else he
enwraps himself with a veritable porcupine
hide of resistance ; but what was his chief
offence? Mrs. Hazelhurst is a kind mistress.

and Helen had taken so strong a fancy to
my garden that I thought the thymy banks
might have thriven under Joe's care alone."

•' But you see, dear Miss Myles, that they
were so much away, and perhaps it was left
at first too much to his own devices ; anyhow
his chief fault was laziness ! "

'' Joe, lazy ? Or was it not that Stevenson
continued his tyranny in respect to the
muck heap ?"

Well, no," said the Vicar, smiling, " it
was not exactly that; but Helen told* me
herself that whenever anyone went to the
Wilderness,' as it was called after you left,
Joe was always to be found — now, where do
you think ? "

Not in my arbour, surely?" said Mary,
and a faint blush illumined her cheeks.

You are just as sharp as ever," said the
Yicar, with twinkling eyes, " to think of
your making that guess 1 Yes, true enough.
Poor Helen would take her book or her
work, and sometimes at her persuasion Mrs.
Hazelhurst would accompany her, and when
they got to your haven of refuge, lo ! Joe
would be there sitting on your own log seat ;
yes, actually sitting, and of course Helen

could not deposit her silken skirts on the
place just defiled by Joe's corduroys. This
occurred several times, but the crowning sin
was, that upon one unhappy day they both
surprised him there with a pipe in his mouth
and smoking, so he had to go forthwith."

Poor Joe," said Mary. " Is he married ?
I promised to help him when he had fixed
upon his wedding day, but I never heard
from him."

Oh, no," cried the Yicar, again smiling.
Joe is particular, he can't find anyone
good enough for him. I think that he is
looking out for a erratum. I took him in
hand after the pipe business, and had him
here, and he did for us well enough, for he
is honest, and sober, and truthful. I also
appointed him to be gardener to the churchyard,
and so between these two posts he did
remarkably well, as far as wages were concerned,
for he cleared between them five-and-twenty
shillings a week, and began to increase
his deposits at the savings bank so
rapidly, that at this moment Joe looks upon
himself as a man of property who ought not
to throw himself away upon anybody ; but I
wish heartily that he would marry before

some little penurious ways, the outcome of
his praiseworthy thrift, get too much fastened
upon him. However, Joe did not like the
churchyard business, for he is a little bit
superstitious, and I believe that it was only
the little fees and the good pay that induced
him to take it in the first instance. He told
the sexton that ' A' don't altogether like
working near the winder where the erratum
was, for as he only saw her on the wrong
side, she seemed to be always looking at him
askew like,' you remember Joe's Suffolk
whine. As he generally had to do what was
required in the ground at the after part of
the day, and was almost always alone there,
it was at last too much for him, and he
wished to leave, when Dr. Grrantham offered
most opportunely to take him into his service
at once with the same wages that he earned
altogether, and there he has remained until
now, always having given his kind master
thorough satisfaction for his integrity and
faithful discharge of his duties, which, however,
were not onerous ; but Joe would be all
the better for a wife and two or three repaired
epitomes of himself. You must talk
him over, Miss Myles. It would be sad if his

thrift should degenerate into selfish hoarding,
as in our unbalanced lives it sometimes does."

The conversation then anrain reverted into
that channel which was more in kinship with
the feelings of the three, and the virtues and
learning of their departed friend was so
welcome a theme, and so thoroughly absorbed
them that the stumbling of a heavy
foot in the porch, and a correspondingly
heavy knock at the hall door passed unnoticed.
Visitors are not frequent at lonely
parsonages in the country after nightfall,
and therefore brown-eyed Phebe might be
excused for breaking into their conference
rather abruptly, instead of attending to the
summons from without, and saying with
much perturbation —

Oh, please, sir, there's somebody knocking
and making a dreadful noise at the front
door, and I'm afraid to go a-nigh it."

All people who have nerves feel them
more or less unstrung at times like the present,
and why not Phebe?" thought the Yicar.

Indeed, Phebe ; and is Jane frightened
too ? "

'* Lie's almost ready to go straight off into
a fit."

This is nonsense, Phebe ; making a noise,
do you say, or merely knocking ? "

*' Oh, sir, he do make a noise, and he keep
on a-coughing dreadful ! "

*' Oh, it's all right then. Go and open the
door, Phebe. I will follow. No harm will
happen to either of us from any poor fellow
who has a dreadful cough."

'but it's not a true, honest cough, sir; it
be put on."

And no one who means mischief, Phebe,
will herald his approach by a cough, either
honest or dishonest. Go and open the door
at once, lass, and show the man in," and the
Vicar followed her out.

But if the sight of Joe Brunning at anytime
were calculated to produce a little
flutter in Phebe's manners by his awkward
attempts at flirtation, it was not so to-night ;
for Joe Brunning, who was this unwonted
visitor, had not a word or a smile for her,
but stood still looking almost as pale as herself,
and, according to a favourite expression
of his own, " quite dazed like." He made
no reply to Phebe's sharp rebuke —

What ! Joe Brunning ! Was that you
making all that noise ? You've frightened

me and Jane almost out of our wits. Whatever
did you keep on croaking for, for all
the world like an old toad, and coming up to
the front door, too ? "

But Brunning this evening was not up to
the warding off with a counterstroke, however
clumsily delivered, any of Phebe's light
thrusts.

I want to see the master," he said, in
hollow tones.

Here I am, Joe ; put down that lantern
and come in," said the Vicar, cheerily, and
he, knowing that Phebe's propensity whenever
Joe called was to hang about, either
with a view to listen to Joe's voice, which,
husky as it was, had dulcet charms apparently
for her, or, as it was in the present
instance, from a desire to gratify a curiosity,
which, considering the paucity of events
which came to break the routine of a somewhat
monotonous and dull-toned life, was
also natural, told him to follow him into the
little study set aside for such receptions.

Well, Joe," said the Vicar, after he had
closed the door himself, " what is it ? Why
you look quite scared."

'' May well be that, sir ; I've — a — I've seen
a speerit.''

Nothing in that if it were true, Joe, to
send all the colour out of your face, my good
fellow, supposing, that is, it was a spirit of a
just one made perfect — for I do not accuse
you of having seen an evil one," said the
Yicar, smiling; *but I take the liberty of
contradicting you, and saying that you've
not seen either. You are a little bit upset
at the loss of your good master, and so weare
all, Joe."

Joe commenced shaking his head ominously,
and for a few moments could give out
nothing more explanatory.

"It bent that, Master Ashcroft; it bent
that."

*' Sit down, Joe, for a moment ; why you
are actually trembling all over."

But Joe could only articulate —

*' It bent that — it war the serrafum.''

Mr. Ashcroft could not refrain from laughing.


The ' erratum ' again, Joe. I hope that
you'll not worry it out of my church window ;
'tis the prettiest figure there."

I know that — I know that," said Joe,
still wagging his head solemnly; 'but I
believe, Master Ashcroft, she come out of t*

winder t' night, and ha' been to see the old
master."

"What! "

I see it, sir, as sure as I see you ; it war
just a-coming out of the gate. It war almost
pitch dark ; I had my lantern, and I war
just a-going to lock up the out-houses, and a'
meet it by the gate ; a' see a light in the
doctor's room as a' come along from the cowshed,
and a' see someone moving about the
room where the old master be lying, and,
believe me, sir, a' could see right through it,
as un sees through the erratum in the winder.
I felt the whole mash of my blood turn in an
instant ; an' then — an' then, Master Ashcroft,
just again the gate I see sumun
coming along, and I lift up my lantern and I
see—"

What, Joe ? "

The face of the erratum out of the
winder looking out at me from out a hood,
but I wasn't a-going' to be dashed, Master
Ashcroft," continued Joe, in a prouder and
more confident tone, " so I go round by the
church as I come here, and sure enough that
side of the winder was pitch dark and there
war no erratum there."

Of course not, Joe, the buttress takes
care of that, it throws a massive shadow
upon that part of the window at all times,
but if all was pitch dark, as you just said,
I'm at a loss how you could make anything
out at all. You would be a lucky
fellow, Joe, to meet one of the Seraphim ; it
does not come to the lot of many. But clear
your brows and come with me. A very kind
friend of yours is in the library with Mrs.
Ashcroft. Follow me, Joe, and see the very
Seraph you met this evening in the person
of Miss Myles, your former mistress."

Joe did not speak ; his ideas always came
slowly.

Come, Joe," said the Vicar, encouragingly;
*' Miss Myles will be glad to see you;
she has been asking after you."

A little scuffle, as of a starched gown in
retreat, was audible to the Vicar as he preceded
Joe out of the door of the study.

I have brought you your old gardener,
Miss Myles. Joe Brunning has come to see
you," said the Vicar as he re-entered the
library, whilst Joe lagged heavily behind.

When Joe, after a few gracious words
from his former mistress, had begged her to

accept his duty, and then resumed his
lantern and trudged homewards somewhat
lightened in heart, anyone who had met
him and whose eyes could have pierced the
darkness might have seen him frequently
shaking his head dubiously, whilst he
muttered to himself —

'Tis wholly standing She be more like
a erratum than ever."

A Suffolk word.

No man can claim to usurp more than a few cubic feet of the
audibilities of a public room, or to put upon the company with
he loud statement of his crotchets or personalities.

* ^<- * * *

Halter was not a man of many words, but short in conversation,
told his opinion bluntly, and was obstinate and hard.

Emerson.

In the coffee-room of the Anglo-Indian Club
two gentlemen had just recognized each
other, and were exchanging the warm and
hearty greetings that old friends give and
receive at an unexpected meeting after the
lapse of many years. They were both elderly
men, and both wore a military aspect, but
one had evidently but lately returned
from a hot climate, and his deeply bronzed
face showed out in strong contrast to
the whiteness of his hair, his bushy eyebrows,

and his thick moustache. He was a
fine and distinguished-looking man, with a
very soldierly and frank demeanour, an over
frank demeanour maybe, if judged by the
conventional reticence of English society
generally, for he spoke loudly and with the
voice of one who had long been accustomed
to say '' Go " and to be obeyed, and his
phrases were garnished or emphasized with
sundry ejaculations, the most usual of which,
''By Jove" or "By George," like all other
invocations of the same nature, are now
almost obsolete among gentlemen both in the
army and navy, where were formerly their
head-quarters. His laugh was also loud and
frequent, and his whole appearance, notwithstanding
his sixty years, the last twenty of
which had been spent in active service under
an Indian climate, gave tokens of robust
health and fine animal spirits — a constitution,
in fact, upon which no mental strain had
ever long pressed — a good-hearted, jovial
man, with nevertheless a visible reserve of
power somewhere ; a man of whose bravery
and courage in the field, for instance, no one
would ever think it requisite to inquire — it
was stamped upon his whole person and in

every lineament with an impress that was
conspicuous to each beholder. It was also
very obvious that he had never been very
much used to the society of women.

"Upon my word, Colonel," said his friend,
still retaining his hand with a firm grip,
you bear your years well. You've not
come home invalided, that's quite certain."

By Jove, no ! I'm all right — all right,"
answered Sir Robert Hanbury, shaking his
friend's hand with ponderous energy ; '' no
liver troubles here, eh ? Complexion's first
rate, isn't it — that is, what you can see of it?
Ha ! ha ! ha ! " and he laughed long and
heartily.

It is really astonishing, Sir Eobert. You
are younger than half of our young men
even now, and by-the-bye I hear you're still
a gay bachelor."

Yes, by George ! without encumbrance,"
and again he laughed.

'' Ah, well ! — ah, well ! — never too late, you
know. Colonel ! I expect that you've come
home for a wife, and that now you'll settle
down among us like a respectable man.
Better late than never I I'll introduce you

VOL. II. r

to some nice girls, and be your best man
into the bargain when you've made your
choice."

I'm not a marrying man, Mason, and I'm
not going to make a fool of myself. By
George ! what should a man marry for at
sixty ! — sixty ! I never had but one scratch
in my life — a pretty deep one though, by
Jove ! — and I was close upon forty before I
got that. You remember ! " and the Colonel
knitted his shaggy white eyebrows and tugged
at his moustache.

Yes, I remember," said his friend, slowly,
and looking at the Colonel with surprise, " if
you mean — "

By Jove ! " interrupted the Colonel, somewhat
sternly.

But you don't really mean to say, Sir
Robert, that you have thought about that
affair all these years — you ! "

Not thought about it ! Why, I've not
got softening of the brain ! Of course I've
thought about it — that is, when I've thought
at all, not being much given to that kind of
thing, never having any time to spare for it.
But I tell you what it is. Mason. You know
what a lot of man-hunters come out to India

after us poor fellows. Well, by Jove ! that
girl's face always came up before me, and
was like a shield of protection. Ha ! ha !
Whenever a woman, maid or widow, made
eyes at me I couldn't help taking stock — ■
making an inventory — during the process,
and the result always was — ' You, after Mary
Myles— ugh ! ' "

Ton my word, Colonel, you've not a
smaller opinion of your own personal merits
as regards the fair sex than you had twenty
years ago ! "

Sir E-obert's clenched fist came down
heavily upon the table and made the crockery
ring again, and a gentleman who was reading
at a table on the far side of the room
suddenly started forward in his seat, and
gave a searching glance at the Colonel, when,
sinking back again in his chair, he resumed
his former attitude, shading his face with the
paper he was reading.

''No," growled the Colonel, " I've not forgotten
it — never shall forget it. A girl
without a brass farthing, of no social standing,
to look me calmly in the face and refuse
me ! " and at the absurdity of the idea Sir
Robert again laughed out heartily.

*' Bad taste, wasn't it, Colonel ? " said Sir
Henry Mason, smiling.

'' By Jove ! " shouted the Colonel ; " I
thought at the time that the girl was clearly
out of her wits — beside herself."

Sir Henry leant forward and whispered to
his friend that they were not alone, as a hint
for the Colonel to moderate the tones of his
voice. The Colonel gave a hasty and indifferent
glance at the stranger before mentioned,
who continued reading, and went on
without heeding.

•' I'm bound to say that no bomb or shell
ever startled me more. I never even took
the trouble to examine the outposts before
making the assault, nor took any time to
consider whether the result would be worth
the sacrifice involved, for, look you, I had no
doubt of victory, and then — then, as if I had
only been a pale, pettifogging lawyer's clerk
with a hundred and fifty pounds a year, she
said quietly, without any fluster, and in the
sweetest of sweet voices, ' No ! no ! no ! '
By Jove, though, what a lovely creature she
was!"

'' You had that consolation. Colonel, anyhow
— she was worthy of your admiration."

I never saw her equal before or since,"
said the Colonel, moodily. '' But what
became of her ? Married a curate, I suppose,
and had ten children, and is now a
mere rag of her former self, so to speak. '

'' No, you are mistaken. She is still unmarried
— at least, so I heard when I was
down in the North last year. I met a fellow
there who knew her when she was at Girton,
in fact, he also had had a scratch, as you
term it."

Girton ! Girton ! Why, that's the place
where they manufacture blue stockings, isn't
it?"

'' You are a little bit old-fashioned, Hanbury.
That epithet is out of date nowadays,
but as you have brought up the lady's
name I may as well avow that she is what
you would call a blue stocking."

*' Mary Myles a blue ! " shouted the
Colonel, in consternation.

Sir Henry Mason smiled.

Mary Myles a blue ! " repeated the
Colonel, in a low voice. " Why, Mason, the
first time I saw her she was in a swing in a
white frock and blue sash — a mere wisp of a
girl, not much over sixteen. I think I see

her now — her brown hair blowing in the
wind, and one of her little shoes had fallen
off. By Jove ! hers were the prettiest feet I
ever saw in my life ! It was those little feet
crossed over each other, and one hopeless, that
made a fool of me there and then.

' Colonel Hanbury, miss,' said the damsel
who had opened the gate. Did she jump off
in a hurry at being thus surprised? Not a
bit of it.

'* ' Colonel Hanbury, please pick up my
shoe,' she cried, smiling all the time as if there
was nothing unusual in the request ; ' pickup
my shoe,' and I picked it up directly.

For a moment I half meditated putting it
into my pocket, but she was holding out her
pretty hand with its pink palm ; and whilst I
was looking at that, she whisked it out of my
hand with the most provoking and childlike
simplicity, and slipping it on, jumped down
and said in the sweetest of voices —

*' ' Now I can shake hands, and say good-morning.
Colonel Hanbury. My mother is
within ; 1 will announce you,' and I followed
her as meekly as a lamb."

Well ? " said Mason, smiling.

'* Mrs. Myles was a delightful person ; her

husband had been an early chum of mine. I
had looked forward to meeting her, but when
that girl left the room — and I verily believe
she returned to her swing — I found no words
to say to my old friend's widow. For three
whole days and nights that girl was ever
before me. I don't believe I slept one wink."

Well ? "

Well ; why on the fourth day I was at
that garden gate again, I had a belief, see you,
that the swing was her morning occupation,
and the idea of proposing to a girl in a swing
rather tickled my fancy."

Proposing to a girl of only sixteen whom
you'd only seen once before ! "

Why not ? I'd nothing to wait for, had I ?
I'd got to years of discretion, eh ? "

Well, and was she in the swing ? "

"No, but she must have seen me snatch
the gate, for I had hardly entered the garden
before I saw her coming towards me with a
basket on each arm, a broad straw hat
shading her face, a blue cotton gown, and a
white apron and bib."

*I am so glad that you have come. Colonel
Hanbury,' she cried, offering me her gloved
right hand from under the basket handle ;

I am going to gather cherries, and you can
hold the baskets for me as I throw them in.
My mother is just this moment busy with
some household matters, so if in the interim
you will come and help me I shall be so very
much obliged to you ; and by the time we have
finished my mother will be able to receive
you,' and quite demurely and as a matter of
course she handed me both the baskets.

"thank you very much, Colonel Hanbury.
It is very kind of you. Follow me, please.
You must stoop your head,' she said, laughing,
as she held back a bough that hung low over a
side path. She looked so charming as she
did so that as I ducked under the green leaves,
and saw her rosy smiling mouth within a
foot of me, I felt a strong desire — But she
had shackled me with a basket on each arm.

' These baskets are tolerably heavy, too
heavy for you. Miss Myles, to have carried
even empty ; you surely did not contemplate
carrying them back when full ? '

' Oh yes. Colonel Hanbury, one at a time.
I am very strong, but you will be able to
carry them both at one time, will you not ? '

We were now at the cherry tree. A light
ladder was fastened firmly to one of the

branches. She skipped up it before I was
aware of her intentions. The tree was laden
with its beautiful fruit, which hung in ruddy
bunches more plentiful than the leaves.

* Now please, Colonel Hanbury, just put
one basket on the ground out of your hand,
and hold the other with both hands. You
see I should have been obliged to hang it on
a bough if you had not so kindly come to help
me.'

She then took off her hat and threw it
down. I stood below like a gawky schoolboy,
holding a basket while she plucked the
cherries and tossed them into it. I kept my
eyes upon her, and not upon the basket.

'' ' Why, Colonel,' she cried, ' you're not
looking ! The basket's full and they are all
falling upon the ground ! Put that down,
please ; and now for the other. But perhaps
you'll be kind enough to gather up those
that are fallen while I rest mj arms a little,'
and she sat herself down on the top rung.

Now, just fancy me grovelling upon the
ground picking up those cherries ! I suppose
I got red in the face, because presently she
said in a sweet and almost compassionate
voice —

** * But you look very, very hot, Colonel
Hanbury. Will you not like to rest a little
too?'

* Oh, no, no.'

I wanted her down from that ladder,
you see. Mason, out of that confounded
cherry tree. Every moment I was getting
more madly in love with her, and I wanted
to tell her so.

At last both baskets were full.

* Oh, thank you so much, Colonel. Now,
please, take them both up, and carry them on
towards the house. I shall soon overtake
you.'

' Can I be of no assistance ? ' I said, holding
out both my hands, but she had perched
herself on the top rung and had crossed her
little feet on another lower down. I saw the
blue bows on her shoes peeping out from
beneath her skirts.

' Oh, no ; thank you very much. Colonel
Hanbury.'

** I saw she was resolute, so that chance
was gone. T took up my baskets, one in
each hand. I had to hold my arms straight
down, of course — a more helpless, stupid
position for a man of my height and size can

hardly be imagined. You may well laugh,
Mason.

"As I turned my back and was moving
over I heard her spring lightly to the ground.
She was putting on her hat when she joined
me again.

' I can hardly thank yon enough, Colonel
Hanbury,' she said, ' for thus pressing you
into my service ; but you see we have no
regular gardener, and we keep no boy.'

Sir Henry Mason laughed outright.

' Colonel Hanbury,' she said after a while,
as I had said nothing, * do you like cherry
pie ? If you do, and will stay dinner — we
dine at two, but you can make it your
luncheon, you know — you can taste the
cherries you have helped to gather, and I
am going to make the pie.'

' It delights me, Miss Myles, to hear
yon say " pie." I always hear them called
tarts," and I hate the word ; " tarts," as I
understood them in my schoolboy days, were
uncovered little kickshaws.'

* My dear mother. Colonel Hanbury,
likes old-fashioned words, and she has
brought me up in old-fashioned ways also,
so I make all the pies, puddings, and cakes.'

' For your sake, then, Miss Myles, I will
submit to a possible attack of dyspepsia, and
never refuse pie, pudding, or cake when I
take luncheon here.'

*' She lifted her clear grey eyes to my
face.

*" If I thought dyspepsia would be the
result. Colonel Hanbury, you should not be
offered anything of the kind when you are so
good as to come to see my mother ; and I
hope you'll come often — but my pastry never
causes dyspepsia. Will you sit down and rest.
Colonel Hanbury ? I will go and find my
mother.'

She motioned me to a garden chair, but
I did not sit down.

I know you think me a fool. Mason, in
telling you all this, and I can't tell how it is
that I remember it all so well, considering
the life I've led since."

*' I think such events in our lives are
always remembered," answered Sir Henry,
sententiously.

* By Jove ! ' I thought, * here's an opportunity
! ' You see, I'd quite made up my mind
to take the plunge, and I wasn't going to
hang about dawdling week after week, so I

straightway made use of my opportunity.
Standing before her I put out my right hand
and took hers.

* You are not going, Colonel Hanbury ?
You'll stay and taste my cherry pie ? '

'* ' I hope so I said, and held her hand.
I am a soldier, you see, my dear young
lady, and am rather blunt, and not used to
pay — to pay compliments. I prefer to speak
to you before I see your mother. The upshot
of this little preamble is that I love
you.'

She looked me at once in the face with
wide open eyes, without a blush, in the most
unblushing manner," said the Colonel, laughing
at his attempt at a joke, " and she made
no reply, so in rather plain fashion I blurted
out —

'' ' I ask you to be my wife.' I suppose I
ought to have trembled a bit, but I'd never
trembled in my life before an enemy, so I
wasn't going to stammer before a young girl
when I was offering her a position she could
never have dreamed of, but she looked at me
with as proud a look as if it had been my
groom and not I who was proposing to her.
Like a fool I took pity on her youth and

ignorance, and repeated the question. She
had allowed me to retain her hand all this
time, mind you, so to push on the siege
more vigorously I pressed the little soft
hand as I repeated : ' I ask you to be my
wife, my dear girl ; it doesn't take much
consideration to say Yes, does it ? ' "

'well?"

'' Well, she hastily withdrew her hand from
mine, and looked at me steadfastly with those
eyes of hers, as I just now told you, and
answered very slowly —

' But the answer, Colonel Hanbury, if
you are really serious, which I can hardly
imagine, is Sto ! ' "

'' And so ended your romance."

"Well, I did just think that the girl
might have some sneaking kindness for
some young fellow which was blocking the
way, and that when all the advantages were
put before her she would doubtless reconsider
her verdict — not that I had any
desire to play Number Two, supposing that
might have been the case ; although I was
forty-two or thereabouts, and she just sixteen.
Nevertheless, after making my bow to the
damsel I did go straight to the mother and

told her my dilemma, asking her if there was
any prior attachment, and she fired up just
as if the question implied an insult, and
gave me such a look.

*'*My dear child, Colonel Hanbury, has
but just entered her seventeenth year.'

' Well, my good lady,' I answered, ' if it
has not been in your experience, it has certainly
come under mine as a fact that girls
and boys often have their little love affairs
without the knowledge of papa and mamma.'

'* I had put my foot in it.

' Mary is not one of those girls,' she
said, haughtily ; then, regarding my penitent
demeanour, added : ' I would gladly have
seen her the wife of a good and brave man,
and I am sorry for you, but her " No " means
no! '

*' The next day I was on my way to India,
and after twenty years I come back to find
her — not married to a curate, but worse —
an old maid aud a blue — a blue ! What a
narrow escape I had ! "

"Not a very narrow one, eh, Hanbury ? "

Sir Robert Hanbury made no reply to this
covert hint of his friend, nor saw the half
smile which accompanied it. He was moodily

regarding the tablecloth. After a few minutes
in this apparently absorbing occupation, he
looked up, and, regarding General Mason
with a determined air, said, in low and
measured tones —

'* I tell you what it is, Mason, I was a
fool — a confounded fool — in not stopping
for luncheon. I ought to have known better.
I behaved myself like a miserable sub.
There was not a bit of generalship in anything
I did. Oughtn't I to have known
what a mere drummer boy ought to be
whipped for not knowing, that any commander
who brings all his forces against the
enemy without first attacking and securing
the outposts is a fool for his pains and
deserves to be well thrashed ? If I had
stayed luncheon, and taken some of her
cherry pie and praised it, and asked for a
second helping, and, in defiance of a frightful
indigestion for a month, had a third helping,
by Jove ! I believe that that girl would
now have been Lady Hanbury ! "

Forgive me for smiling, Hanbury, but
your cherry pie episode recalls a well-known
distich scratched on the pane of a country
inn —

In memory of the cherry pay
That cost half-a-guiney."

But Colonel Hanbury was in no mood to
laugh at another man's jest, if jest were
intended.

Sir Henry Mason, however, seemed mischievously
bent upon playing upon his
friend's idiosyncrasy of self-approbation, so
remarked with a twinkle of his eye —

But she's not done so badly after all,
excepting, of course, that she's not Lady
Hanbury. I heard last year when I was
down in the north that she had gained the
highest honours — was a classical tripos,
man."

A classical tripos ! a classical tripos !
Merciful heavens ! "

** And is now head-mistress of the Chip-pelham
College for Girls, with a salary of
five hundred a year; not so bad for your
penniless little girl, eh, Colonel ? "
The Colonel sprang from his chair.
Worse and worse," he roared. *' Mary
Myles a school-mistress ! By Jove, it serves
her right ! "

The stranger laid down his newspaper
and crossed the room on his way to the
VOL. II. G

door. As he passed he bowed slightly to
Colonel Hanbury, who returned the salutation.


Do you know that gentleman ? " observed
Sir Henry.

He was one of the passengers in the
Guatemala. I believe that he is a Judge of
some eminence in Bombay, but somehow we
didn't get on together during the voyage. I
rather think our politics did not coincide. I
did not recognize him until he bowed, and I
cannot recall his name at this moment."

Sir Robert walked to the window.

Mary Myles a school-mistress ! " he muttered.
" Mary Myles a blue ! "

love, my love ! If I no more should see
Thyself, nor on the earth the shadow of thee,

Nor image of thine eyes in any spring,
How then should sound upon Life's darkening slope
The ground-whirl of the perished leaves of Hope,

The wind of Death's imperishable wing ?

Rossetti.

When in the lives of men and women the
dial of time scores a flight of ten years, the
index points to moral or physical changes as
obvious as the sun's record on the dial-plate;
but in the life of a woodland tree ten years
leave hardly a mark of their passage. There
is no appreciable advance towards decay and
dissolution. The child may frolic and dance
over its roots, and again as an old man, with
trembling hands resting on his staff, he may
stay awhile his weary feet beneath its shade ;

whilst the tree itself is still in its glorious
prime. Thousands upon thousands of short-lived
creatures each fleeting summer have
made merry in its branches ; song and gladness
have re-echoed there for many decades,
and the tiny players of pipe and tabor have
smouldered generation after generation in the
deep leafy mould beneath. Birth-place and
hunting ground of myriads of enemies, who
are slowly but surely working its destruction,
scooping out its very bowels to make them
bridal couches and nursing cradles, it is yet
an object of grandeur and beauty, all unwitting
that its very life-blood is being
sapped by tribes of little despised borers,
tunnelling its mighty stem in every direction.

The chestnuts of Sunnyside glade, save
that their arms stretched yet a little further
towards the woodland path, were unchanged.
Chestnuts are not as sturdy as the oak, to
whom age is a crown of glory. The years
piled on years bring them decrepitude and
palsied limb, but on the other hand the
ravages of small enemies are fewer, and they
succumb to time, not before the armies of
insect invaders.

The chestnuts of Sunnyside glade had

passed unscathed through the past ten years
which had stripped off many a noble arm
from their not far distant neighbours by the
joint attacks of lightning and storms, without
its being apparent why they had been so
mercifully passed by, when the tempest and
whirlwind rushed in blind fury over the land
and had laid so many others low.

Beneath a dull November sky, their golden
leaves yet remaining, loosened by last night's
hoar frost, were fluttering down in showers.
Their rustle as they fell was the only sound
that met the ears of a solitary figure, who
stood long rooted to the spot immovable —
chained, as it seemed, by some enthralling
memories.

A tall, powerful, bearded and sunburnt
man was this visitor to a seldom trodden
spot. A grave man, over whose temples the
hair, elsewhere so thick, had somewhat fallen
away, which added still more to the noble
breadth of brow. That brow was marked a
little prematurely when viewed in contrast
with the other features ; they looked like
lines of thought rather than of years, and
the deep cut between the eyebrows spoke of
a honos habit of knitting them, the result

often of suppressed feelings of indignation,
but always indicative of gnawing cares — a
stern face on the whole, with firm, well
closed lips. His age might have been
guessed to be between thirty-five and forty,
but a second glance would possibly qualify
the first impression of the beholder, and give
rise to the added remark —

It is possible that he looks much older
than lie is."

He was bareheaded, holding his bat in his
hand, although the wind that with no gentle
hand lifted his hair was sharp and searching,
and the thick double piled overcoat that he
was wearing showed that he was not indifferent
to cold.

It was no soft emotion that overpowered
him, although his eyes scanned the stem of
the larger tree on the mound with the eagerness
of a lover searching for a mistress's
cherished name ; and if those were really
tears with which his eyes glistened, they
were tears which made the line between his
brows to deepen, and his lips to close yet
firmer.

God forgive me," be said, after awhile.
*' I ought not to have come here first," and

>
covering his head he turned away s suddenly
in the direction of Sunnyside.

Mrs. Hazelhurst had received a telegram
on the previous morning announcing her
nephew's arrival in England, followed by a
brief note which signified that it was his
intention to call upon her on the following
day. He had not written to her throughout
all this interval of ten years, until his reply
to her letter upon his mother's death, which
response was singularly brief, considering
the occasion. She had felt wounded by his
seeming neglect. At first she had hardly
expected it, but when that fleeting futile love-dream
of his had vanished into thin air, she
had hoped that occasionally he would have
written, or showed in some other way that
his old affection to the ever-kind aunt of his
boyhood, and to his early little playmate,
was again reasserting itself.

From time to time, as she listened to her
sisters glowing description of his rapidly
advancing career, and his brilliant prospects
in the future, her thoughts had again inclined
to the possibility of the alliance cherished of
old, and in this she was encouraged by Mrs.

Langridge. Helen had refused several offers
she seemed resolutely set against marriage.
"What other reason could be assigned for this,
but that she secretly and tenaciously clung
to the girlish remembrance of her handsome
cousin ? India somehow did not now seem
too far off for her child. He would retire
early — that intention he openly avowed to
his mother — he would eventually take up his
residence in England. Such a future as was
held out to her would compensate for parting
with her daughter for a year or two, and
so the thought thus entertained grew and
grew, until it occupied her mind almost as
fully as formerly.

What a devoted son he was ! His letters
to his mother were curt, certainly, but then
he was overwhelmed with serious employments.
That he worked terrific hard to
attain all that he achieved was self-evident.
A position so unwonted at so early an age
was not acquired without personal cost and
sacrifice, but Mrs. Langridge was satisfied.
Almost every mail brought her some token of
his loving care for her — some choice Eastern
gift, increasing in costliness as the years
brought him increasing wealth. What shawls,

and rugs, and embroideries, and carved
work found their way to her home ! Not one
doit would he ever receive to diminish her
income since the hour he found himself
dependent upon her, or since that *' silly
affair," as his mother put it, which, after all,
had not turned out so badly ; as he was evidently
bent upon convincing his mother that
he was not the weak fool that she had
thought him to be. Everything showed to
Mrs. Langridge that the films had fallen
from his eyes, and that each earnest endeavour
of his life was to coincide with her
every wish. Yes, it had been a good thing,
a providential thing after all. India could
give him more than England. Here he must
have waited a lifetime for one quarter of the
results that had now accrued to him from the
service of a few years. In England how he
must have toiled before he could have got a
name ! Now he had both wealth and honours.
There was as yet, no hint from him of any
intention of marrying, but his mother had no
desire that he should ally himself with any
Anglo-Indian girl. She had once ventured
to write : " When you pay your promised
visit to England, dear boy, I suppose that

you will not go back again without a wife."
And he had written in reply : " I do not see
ray way clear to go to England so soon as I
expected. When the announcement for
which I am waiting comes, I shall go, but
not before ; but if it does not come before,
expect me, at any rate, in the tenth year.
Then I shall possibly stay a whole year in
England, and assuredly I shall not return
hither without my wife."

This letter, a longer one than usual, Mrs.
Langridge sent to her sister. " Glorious old
fellow," she wrote, "he is doing exactly
what I would have him to do. T am told
that a baronetcy will probably be offered to
him on his retirement, so I am in no hurry ;
and our dear Helen will not harm by this
delay." And Mrs. Langridge, with her
increased means, was equal to the occasion,
and received and paid visits in a style
befitting the mother of a judge and a possible
baronet.

But she, the mother, had died suddenly a
few days before this tenth year had dawned.

With sad thoughts, as she revolved all
these things in her mind, Mrs. Hazelhurst
looked forth from the same library windows

from which she had seen the handsome
youth with clouded brow drive off just over
ten years since, and — The gate swung
back. Was that bearded, bronzed, hard-visaged
man who lifted his hat in recognition
the object of her thoughts ? Could
he be Herbert Langridge? A strange
feeling of disappointment, almost of repulsion,
crept over her. How different was this
coming home to all she had pictured ! Was
this man her Indian Prince ?

Whilst still these feelings were predominant
he had entered the library rather
abruptly, and not waiting to be announced.
A silent embrace was his greeting.

You hardly know me'' he said, after a
pause. " I see it in your face, my dear
aunt ; but really I am no counterfeit, I am
still Herbert Langridge — by name, anyhow."

*' And by nature, too, I expect," said his
aunt, graciously, recovering herself and faintly
smiling. ** Welcome — welcome home! Ah!
how sad it is," she said, sighing audibly,
"that your dear mother no longer lives to
welcome you ; to think that the meeting to
which she ever looked forward was never to
be!'

Mr. Langridge had taken a seat. He
shaded his face at those last words, leaning
his elbow upon a table near.

But my mother was suddenly taken
hence," he said, huskily ; " her death-bed
was not clouded with those regrets."

*' That is true ; but it does not make the
loss any more endurable for those who are
left. Rather the contrary. So many hopes
so many visions of a future, that never
was destined to come — haunt me still. Poor
Elinor ! "

'' But was not my mother happy ? It was
my constant endeavour that every wish of
her heart should be gratified."

And you can take that for your consolation
Herbert I never knew before how much
my sister's heart was set upon such things ;
but latterly she looked ten years younger,
and at her receptions was as attractive as the
youngest beauties present."

Mr. Langridge made no answer.

You have come without any luggage. I
presume you left it at the station, Herbert ?

'' I have only come to-day for a call,
aunt."

For a call ! after all these years ! But,

of course, only a preliminary one to a very
long visit. You remain in England a year, I
believe ? "

Not now, aunt ; no, my visit will not
exceed two months. Things here, you see
are altered for me ; and now with the view I
still hold of retiring in four or five years, I
hardly care to take too long a holiday ; but
dear Helen, she is not married I hear. How
is that, aunt ? "

An awkward question, as Mrs. Hazelhurst
took it, but she evaded it.

Helen is difficult ; she has had splendid
opportunities, but I am not sorry to have
her still all my own. She is out riding just
now, but you will see her at luncheon ; but
now, as you have touched upon matrimony,
I suppose that I am not far wrong if I venture
to hazard a remark upon yourself. Do you
take a wife back with you ? "

*' That was the main object of my visit to
England," he said, dryly.

Mrs. Hazelhurst smiled inwardly.

'' His heart is set upon my Helen," she
thought ; *' but how blunt he is. I am not sure
that she will see you with the same eyes as
formerly ; " but she said aloud, " You have

allowed yourself but a short time to make
your choice. Two months ! ''

My choice was made ten years since."

Mrs. Hazelhurst pushed back her chair.
The grating words — the cold, hard voice — the
stern face turned towards her took away all
power of reply.

Therefore have I come," he continued, in
the same dry tone, " and therefore do I seek
you now as a petitioner having a favour to
ask ; but, aunt, you look frightened. Is my
aspect so grim as all that ? "

I hardly understand you, Herbert," faltered
his aunt.

Well, then, to be explicit, I have come to
England to claim the hand of the woman I
loved in my boyhood ; but don't be alarmed,
aunt, I am not mad."

Your voice sounds cruelly harsh, Herbert.
Am I really to infer that you are actually
alluding to Miss Myles ? If so, such an idea
does almost seem to me like madness. What
would your poor mother say were she alive ?
Miss Myles is now a middle-aged woman —
faded, precise, and care-worn ! "

*rand what am I? Look at me! You
see me brow-lined and furrowed from hasting

to be rich ! And what else is there within
that you do not, cannot see ? A heart prematurely
hardened from this pursuit of wealth
and honours, a life from which all poetry has
been reft — crushed — cruelly crushed out.
And my mother never relented — not one
word ever came from her of sympathy or pity !
Look at me — in the lower sense — a success ;
in my higher nature — a wreck; a Will
machine with all the cogs and wheels moving
in admirable adjustment ; but a machine,
after all, without a soul ! "

Good heaven ! Herbert, that unfortunate
attachment seems to have blotted out all
natural affection. It is horrible ! "

My mother, in her pride, asked for
success — she spurned love away from her.
Year after year I toiled day and night, I
forestalled her every desire. I toiled, I say,
day and night in the darkness of grief, obeying
her implacable commands to the very
letter. 1 waited, and waited in vain for the
message which never came. I heard it sometimes
in the watches of the night : * Come
home, my son, and marry the woman you
love ; ' but it never came. That noble woman
had bound me to this blind obedience. ' Your

mother is a woman,' she said, 'she will surely
be touched by your filial love and devotion.
Wait ! and if in the course of years your constant
service wins not a spontaneous acknowledgment,
you can then go to her with a
clear soul and ask your release. You can then
say, " Mother, I have done all this for you ;
have you nothing for me in return ? " ' And
this is the tenth year, and I am here, but my
mother said not one word, and she is in her
grave."

Your mother was under a wrong impression,
Herbert. She thought that you had
overcome that — that early predilection, but
now, even now reconsider it. Miss Myles, I
have only seen her once, but that was lately
at poor Dr. Grantham's funeral, and although
she was at some distance and veiled, I could
see by her general bearing that she was
much aged, and who could expect otherwise
in ten years ? — ten years make their mark in
any woman — and when one has to earn a
livelihood by teaching the natural result
must be that such a woman would change
more than another. If she were not the
wife for you, my dear Herbert, ten years
ago, depend upon it she is less suitable now
than she was then."

Look you, aunt," said her nephew,
springing to his feet. " I knew not whether
she were alive or dead until two days since,
when T accidentally overheard her name
alluded to by some old friend of her father's,
a fellow traveller, addicted to loud talking.
Had she been dead, mind you — had I come
home to find two graves instead of one —
think not that I would have buried the love
of my youth in her grave, and left it therefor
the grass to grow over, and my heart to
blossom into another new, fresh flower of
love. No ! I would have sought her grave,
but I would not have left her there and
turned my footsteps back into the world to
seek forge fulness and oblivion. I would have
borne those dear remains back with me,
back to India, far away from this cold
island, and its colder people, and there in
India, in old heathenish fashion, I would
have builded a splendid mausoleum, and
waited again, waited for ten years — twenty
years — for I am strong, and sorrow does not
kill me, as you see. I am as obstinate in my
body as my soul ; what I will, I do. Yes ! I
would have waited till I could sleep with
her the sleep of death ; but she lives, thank

VOL. II. H

God, she lives ! and you tell me in order to
change my purpose which has also lived
these ten years that she is * faded ! careworn
! precise ! ' Be she ' faded ' she is
my own. Every line that I shall number on
that dear face, each, each one will show tome
the record of how they came, and through
what they have come."

He is raving, he is stark mad," thought
Mrs. Hazelhurst, but she merely observed
coldly, *' The simplest solution would be
her six-and-thirty years. You are unjust,"
she continued after a pause, " unjust and
unfeeling, when you thus covertly allude to
my sister, your mother. She was apparently
mistaken, she judged you as any reasoning
being would have judged you from your acts.
Being away, she — all of us — had no other
means of judging, and she, and all of us,
thought that you were endeavouring to
show her that you wished to atone for — well,
in short, that you heartily repented of your
folly."

What, aunt ? did my mother who knew
me as I was then, better than anyone else,
did she think of me so meanly after all?
Was she proud of me only because I worked

to gain, strove for an object, and knew of
me nothing beyond ? Could lie imagine that
in the higher affections I was really possessed
of such a poverty of soul that I could
win a woman's love with ardent words and
worship, laying down my life almost at her
feet if she had asked but for it, and then
shift off and fling it away, as a newly-donned
garment, no longer required, is cast aside
when the sun cones out and warms a cold
spring day ? My mother thought that ? my
mother ! Yet if she did think me so miserable
a wretch as your words imply, she was
more guiltless than I thought. She was not
then indifferent and heartless. She knew
not that I suffered. Is this, can this be
true?"

She had no misgivings of any sort, none ;
of that, Herbert, rest well ass used. Believe
me, knowing your mother as I knew her, it
is with no small anguish of heart that I thus
plead my sister's — my sister's cause with her
own son, but it is true. Two years ago, alluding
to that event now so painfully brought
before me again, she said to me, ' How
thankful Herbert must be that I withstood
his boyish caprice. Every action shows it,

dear fellow ! He is of too noble a nature to
speak of it in direct terms, as he could hardly
do so without some disparaging remarks
upon the lady who was the cause of it ; but
the facts speak for themselves. ' "

Herbert covered his face with his hands
and wept.

My poor mother! my poor mother ! These
are the first tears that I have shed since I
left England. I wept not when the news of
my mother's death was brought rae, though
my eyes were like balls of fire ; but no tears
came to moisten them. O, God ! I thank
Thee that I can weep again. My poor mother !
you cast away from you the true riches of the
heart, and losing a son and a daughter were
satisfied with the counterfeit coin of the world
paltry gewgaws of wealth and pomp ; poor,
poor mother ! "

'restrain yourself, Herbert; you are not
talking as a reasonable man should talk, much
less as a wise man who is proud of his steadfast
will. I cannot listen any longer if you
indulge in these wild tirades, and persist in
reflections upon my sister."

Aunt, forgive me. For ten years I have

been but a dry stick. This outburst is welcome
; it shows rue that the sap of true
vitality is DOt altogether extinct. I am
thankful that I can weep."

What is the favour which you spoke of
but now ? " she said, anxious to divert the
conversation into a different channel.

Simply this. That my marriage may take
place from your house, and that you will
kindly ask my intended bride to take up her
residence here until all my arrangements are
completed."

That can hardly be, Herbert. Upon reflection
you will think you have done wrong
in making such a request."

I have well considered it, aunt ; it is no
sudden thought. My sole idea is to honour
her, and from this house, where she bore
humiliation so nobly, I desire that she shall
go forth as my bride. You cannot deny me.
Is it so unreasonable a request r If Helen
were here I would ask her if she would not
be glad to do honour to a lady to whom she
owes so much."

** Luncheon is about to be served, Herbert ;
we will talk it over by-and-bye."

*' I have no time to adjourn it. I take the
afternoon train to London, and by the first
express tomorrow morning I journey to the
north. After arranging the preliminaries of
my marriage I have to settle my mother's
affairs, and I have other matters to attend to
in connection with my appointment in India,
so you see I have not much time to lose."

Helen, entering at this juncture, met her
cousin with frank warmth ; but her surprise
was equal to her mother's.

How dreadfully he is altered," she said
to herself over and over again; but when
after luncheon her mother drew her into
another room and hastily told her all the circumstances
of the interview and her nephew's
request, adding, parenthetically, '' He must
be mad," overcome by sympathetic pity, she
murmured —

*' Poor fellow, poor dear Polly. Oh, mother !
darling mother ! do let us have the wedding
here," and sobbed aloud on her mother's
shoulder.

A few minutes after both women re-entered
the library with tearful eyes. Going up to
Herbert Langridge, they each laid a hand on
either arm.

This dear girl has prevailed. Bring your
intended bride here, and, since you will have
it so, may God bless you both," said Mrs.
Hazelhurst, and laid her right hand upon her
nephew's head.

And ever as their shadows threw

Themselves athwart the crimson pane,
White arms the casement backward drew

And stretched toward the swelling main.
The day is done, the night is nigh.

The boats are hasting to the lee.
On what far shore becalmed doth lie

That bark should bear my love to me."

A COLD, drizzling rain was falling when
Herbert Langridge arrived at the great manufacturing
city of the north. " Drive me to
the best and nearest hotel," he had said; but
the best did not happen to be the nearest, and,
for reasons of his own, as the traveller was
evidently a stranger, the cabman who received
this command responded to it by taking him
to a second-rate commercial inn, the altogether
jaded look of his fare suggesting to
the driver a hard-worked bagman rather than

an Indian judge. In too impatient a mood
to order him to drive elsewhere, and possessed
with that spirit of irritation which almost
welcomes a condition of things that justifies
it, Herbert flung himself from the vehicle
whilst objurgating the stupidity of the driver,
whom he nevertheless gladdened by more
than double the pay due to him, and, entering,
ordered private rooms.

Private rooms, however, were scarce at
*' The Merry Bells," and although fires of the
largest dimensions were blazing away in the
coffee and public rooms, there was none in
the dingy little apartment into which he was
shown.

Let me have a fire quickly, and anything
for dinner that you have in the house, only
quickly,' ' he said, shuddering. " Have you
no bedroom with a fire in it, where I can
refresh myself with some soap and warm
water ? "

I am afraid, sir, that all the best bedrooms
are full. But I'll soon make a fire in
the room next to this. But do you want a
fire in both rooms at once? "

Yes, make as large a fire as you can
in both rooms, and soon. Be quick, be

quick, my good girl ; don't you see I'm
perished ? "

The ready application of a coin not often
offered to her occasioned first a stare of surprise,
and secondly gave rise to a conscientious
scruple, which surmised that another
coin of similar dimensions but of a paler
colour might have been intended.

Do you know what you've given me,
please, sir ?" she said, holding it out displayed
on her not too clean palm.

Yes, yes ; do make haste."

Oh the power of a tiny bit of gold ! Wood
and coals in a few moments were flaming and
roaring up the wide old-fashioned chimney
whence a few moments before the down
draught brought into the room the commingled
odours of soot and damp. Without
removing either travelling or great coat,
Herbert drew a chair close to the fire, and,
heedless of scorching, thrust his booted feet
up to the very bars. " To-morrow, then, I
shall see her," he murmured. It hardly
seemed possible that he and she were to meet
on the morrow, and nothing in the expression
of his face showed therein the anticipation of
a great joy. *' Poor thing ! careworn and

faded," he muttered, and the line between his
brows deepened. " Well 'tis no great matter
to me now," and he thrust back with his heel
a blazing faggot of pine which was about to
precipitate itself into the room. " But 'precise
old maid ! ' there's the sting. Can it be possible
that she has narrowed down into a thing
of formalities — a walking Greek grammar?"
he groaned aloud. " It's possible ; we are
never stationary — ever moving onwards,
either on the upward path still broadening
the higher it goes, or dwindling like the* unused
functions of some of the lower animals,
or fossilizing as I have been. Poor Mary !
why should I ask more from her than I find
in myself ? It has been a long, long mistake,
and it was a miserable weakness in me to have
yielded as I did before that claptrap word —
duty ! duty ! duty ! Enforced duties are
wretched failures always. If I had taken my
own freehanded course it might have been all
well now; I could have braved anger, cursing,
or poverty, and defied the whole army of
malicious and inimical influences, had she,
as I knew her and adored her, ten years since,
been by my side. But now ' careworn and
faded!' yes, no doubt 'a woman working for

her livelihood naturally gets careworn and
faded in ten years.' " He started from the
chair and paced the room.

This, once the great bugbear of the majority
of gentlemen, and still lingering in the breasts
of many, namely, the unfitness and the unloveliness
of gentle womanhood earning its own
livelihood, had always been intensely felt by
Herbert Langridge when younger, and before
he left England. It resulted from the brave
and warm generosity of his character, and
from the high estimation in which he held
women, and from no meaner motive. Ten
years since there was a momentary recoil
when his newly-found goddess, his hamadryad
faded away into simple Mary Myles, the
governess, and his residence in India had
served to strengthen those opinions. It is
true that after the first shock which had
reduced his sylvan divinity to a young woman
who was his cousin's instructress had subsided,
there had been a new fascination in the, to
him, unwonted alliance of feminine loveliness
and grace with learning ; but now that was
gone which had made her for him, so noble a
personification of all that was beautiful and
charming.

'Tis no matter now," he repeated, with
bitterness ; " both our lives are spoiled, so
we'll mourn together over the embers of the
past."

Dinner being announced as ready and
awaiting him, he returned to the sitting-room
which he had left in order to re-arrange his
apparel ; but although no fault could be found
in the preparation of that which was placed
before him, he ate but little. Disquieting
thoughts and unavailing regrets are poor
appetizers.

A sound as of an organ or harmonium came
indistinctly through the closed curtains.

Whence comes that dismal noise ? " he
asked, testily, of the young woman who was
promptly responding to the previous order of
Clear these things away."

Dismal, sir ! Don't you like music ?
Why, we think a deal here of the Marigold
Guild, and it's their night for practice."

And, pray, my good girl, what is this
Marigold Guild that is thought so much of? "

The Guild of St. Mary's. They're the
work girls from the great factory, and they're
getting up their Christmas oratorio, and they
wear a marigold for their badge."

Two words had fallen upon the ears of
Herbert Langridge, " Mary " and " mary-gold,"
and gentler memories touched him.

"It is a long while until bedtime," he
thought. " Where, then, is this Guild, my
girl ? It must be somewhere near at hand,
I suppose, for the sounds of the instrument
to be heard thus ? "

It is only two or three minutes off, sir."

I suppose anyone can go in by paying ? "

*' Oh, no, sir, no one ; leastways, no gentleman,
and this is especially a close night. But
you can hear them quite well in the porch,
and the Lady President is worth listening to,
I can tell you."

A sharp bell summoned the damsel away
as Herbert was about to ask a further question.


'Tis just yonder, sir — the hall I mean
if you've a mind to walk over," and she
jerked her hand in the direction as she
hastily left the room.

No, sir," said the doorkeeper, as Herbert
tendered him a coin, '' this is not a public
night at the Institute. It is given up one
evening in the week to the Guild of St.

Mary's, and this is their night. The Lady
Foundress is there to-night, and I have strict
orders to keep the doors locked. Those are
the Rector of St. Mary's orders, who is here.
The girls sing very well. They are now on
Elijah. You can hear them very well here,
sir."

Herbert Langridge gave a careless glance
through the inner glass doors. There was a
group of some thirty to forty girls at the far
end, and a female figure, half concealed by a
curtain, was seated at the organ, by whose
side stood a gentleman in the garb of a
clergyman. There was nothing to interest
him in this, so Herbert was about to turn
impatiently away when three clear voices
broke forth in the sweet song of the angels
to the sleeping Elijah, and at once arrested
his departing footsteps. The girls of Yorkshire
and Lancashire have good voices
generally, and possess the musical instinct.
The purity of their intonation and the
quality of their vocal organs in their rendering
of that delicious strain of melody immediately
exercised a subtle charm upon him.
He drew close to the glass again and listened
intently. He hardly heard the final bars, for

his worn spirit, like that of the tired prophet,
seemed borne away into contact with the
Invisible.

I think, sir," whispered the doorkeeper,
"that the Lady President is going to sing
now. I see the Rector speaking to her.
You must stop to hear her."

Again Herbert leant towards the panes. A
firm but delicate touch played the opening-bars.


Ah ! " he cried aloud, startled out of
himself, " my favourite air, ' rest in the
Lord.' " He involuntarily raised his hand as
if to enjoin silence upon the man at his elbow,
as a voice of rare mellowness swelled through
the hushed air as it sung with equal sweetness
and power that divine song. Touched
by some secret sympathetic awe, his heart
throbbed violently. " Who is that lady ? "
he asked the doorkeeper, hastily.

*' The President and Foundress of St.
Mary's Guild," answered the man. *' But
please stand on one side, sir; I must unlock
the door, they are coming out."

A tall, graceful figure was being carefully
cloaked by the Rector, who assiduously drew
the fur-lined hood closely around her face.

As they passed through the door, she leaning
on his arm, the Rector addressed some
words to her in a low tone which obliged her
to turn her head towards him. Her trailing
skirts brushed Herbert as she went by, and
an indefinable thrill ran through him. With
somewhat more of spiritualized feelings than
had for a long period visited his breast
Herbert left the porch of the Institute.

The Rector's wife, I suppose. Well, she
has a dignified and graceful bearing, and a
most superb voice. He's a fortunate man Sofar,
and apparently he knows it."

Saying this he walked away hastily, not
waiting to observe that the Rector of St.
Mary's only handed the lady into the carriage
standing outside, and that he himself stood
looking after that same carriage as long as
it was in sight, unmindful of the falling
sleet.

Wait patiently on Him, and He shall
give thee thy heart's desires."

These words — these words alone — were repeating
themselves in his brain. The tones of
the voice in which they were sung were vibrating
in his ears as Herbert Laugridge sat until
long past midnight gazing into the fire which

VOL. II. I

now in full ruddy glow illumined the heretofore
dingy room at his hotel. He had extinguished
the lamp ; the firelight alone was
more congenial to him in his present mood.

"And He shall give thee thy heart's
desires."

What desires," he thought, " and what
heart ? A heart in unison with Him — desires
in subjection to His will ? "

A panorama of his own heart's desires for
the last ten years seemed te unroll before
him. Had not his heart been straying
farther and farther away from all spiritual
influences day by day, week by week, month
by month, year by year, throughout all that
time until now — until now ? Aud what was
he now ? Whose fault was it ? Was he not,
even now, ready to lay all that accumulation
of hardening worldliness upon one who was
dead, and that one his mother ? Was that
true ? Had he not blindly obeyed his own
will, and seen nothing better than to follow
his own will ? A gentle voice had bade him
above all things to fulfil his duty to that
mother. Had he done so ?

What a plain, bare duty was that he had
given. How bald, how destitute of the

commonest attributes of filial love had been
his conduct to that mother ! How cold had
been the feelings which accompanied all
those choice and precious gifts which he had
poured into her lap ! How scornful were
his receptions of her warm and appreciative
acknowledgments ! How bitter were his
thoughts of her when in his rapid glances over
her letters he found not the words he wanted
to see ! What blessing could follow gifts
given in such a spirit ? Not of such suff
was the counsel given him bj that loved
woman. His mother, too, had been deceived ;
she had taken the dross for gold. How could
she think that the beloved son of her heart
would send gifts in scoffing ?

E-est in the Lord'* As he had listened
to those words that night the scales seemed
to fall from his eyes. Yes, he had been
heartless all these years to the mother who
had borne him. How could he look upon the
face of her who had bidden him sacrifice
love for duty, and had told him that his
reward would come ? Could he say to her in
all sincerity, '' I have done all that you bade
me to do. In loving reverence have I served
my mother, and my reward has been that her

heart was closed, tliatlier ears were ever deaf
to the voices of my supplications that were
ever silently appealing to her." Alas ! what
voices were these? Could the worked gold
and the precious stones, the tapestries and
embroideries touch the finer portion of her
woman's nature ?

He had debased it and hardened it by
pandering to a latent weakness — a weakness
which had never been so fed before. He
had nursed her love of pomp and parade, so
long subdued by the higher power of maternal
love. He had injured her as he had injured
himself, through the pride of life, the pomp
of wealth ! Even now— but now — as he was
nearing the goal, as he was approaching
what he once looked forward to as his only
earthly felicity, he was undervaluing the
prize for which he had waited and toiled so
long.

Careworn and faded."

These depreciatory words had not so much
annoyed him personally as they did by conveying
to his mind what would be the estimation
of the world at large. He wanted
bis wife to be the admired of all ; he wished
to be the envied husband of such a wife. He

had desired that he himself through the
holiest affections should be elevated on a
pedestal, and receive laudations from the
crowd. A little shiver of discontent ran
through him as he thought that he was
about to bear back to India as his bride a
lady who would be regarded as " careworn,"
faded," and '' precise."

Then again with quick revulsion of feeling
he asked himself if all these newly-entertained
accusations were true ? Was he the unsoiled
thing he made himself out to be ? Was he a
worshipper of materialism only ? Had they
not been means to an end for which he had
been really working, and that end to secure
the sweetest companion and most helpful
helpmeet any living man could possess ?
Was it not an unright thing to deem himself
so debased, whilst hoping in the twilight
hour, after all the burning heat of the days-man's
toil had been borne by both that they
should rest together in the cool of the evening
hour ? Was it good to hold an opinion
so low of the man who sought to be that
woman's husband ? Had he been altogether
absorbed by ambition, would his breast have
kept that little untended taper burning

clearly so long — would not the rough winds
of ignoble desires have quenched it long ago ?
Peace he had not. He had not " rested in
the Lord " nor waited patiently for Him ;
but his soul was not sullied by any stain of
impurity. The desires of his heart were not
wholly alien from the perfect life, and " the
peace that passeth all understanding " might
yet be his.

'* Henceforth I will strive to wait patiently'*
was his prayer that night.

When on his bed, tired as he was when
sleep at last enfolded him in her restful arms,
it was no image of the lost hamadryad of his
youth that visited his pillow and stood by it
as a dream ; it was a tall, gracious figure,
who held in her hands a chaplet of marigold
which she was about to place upon his head,
whilst she sung in subdued tones, as if for
him only, '* 0, rest in the Lord, beloved of
my soul."

The morning was well awake, and awake

with all the smiles a wintry sun can wear,

when Herbert opened his eyes, refreshed in

body and mind. The bells were chiming

from some church near as he concluded a

rather hasty breakfast. They were old bells,
and their sound fell gratefully upon his ears.

*' Those bells are very sweet; I suppose
they are much thought of ? "

Yes, we are all very proud of our bells,"
answered the hostess, who herself had come
to inquire after his welfare, and how he had
slept. '' The bells of St. Mary are renowned
for miles, and many a triple bob major has
been scored by them. We are in the parish
of St. Mary, so of course we stand up for
our bells. And we like our Rector also ; Tie
has as true a ring in him as have the bells of
his church."

I suppose that the foundress of St.
Mary's Guild is the wife of the Rector of St.
Mary ? "

No, no ; not quite that," said the landlady,
smiling and shaking lier head. " 'Tis
no fault of our Rector's, though, that she is
not, so folks say. Well, well, it'll happen
some day, sure, for he's waiting patiently
enough, and them as wait always get what
they want. She'll not get a better husband,
though she's well worth any man, as sweet
and worthy a lady as — "

But before these last words were uttered

Herbert had strode across the room as if he
were not listening to the good woman's
peroration, and, with a gesture of indifference,
had taken up his hat and was about to
leave the room abruptly.

"What time for luncheon, sir?" said the
landlady, in a sharper tone, and with an air
which was evidently rather ruffled.

I hardly know ; I will take what there is
in the house. I may be detained."

** Umph ! " said the landlady, '' too proud
to listen to the answer after having asked the
question."

Gossip of any kind was distasteful to
Herbert, and therefore it was that the moment
the private affairs of the Rector of St. Mary's
Church and the foundress of St. Mary's Guild
were about to be discussed by the landlady,
to him, a stranger, he had seized his hat and
had unceremoniously quitted her without
asking the one question which was really
uppermost in his mind, namely, the way to
the Collegiate School for Girls.

This question, thus deferred, he asked
therefore of the house-porter outside as he
left the hotel, and receiving for information
that it was fully a walk of twenty minutes'

distance, and beyond the city ; he started at a
brisk pace in the direction pointed out, with
a heart comparatively light and unburdened.

The Collegiate School was a handsome
modern building, and the style of its architecture
was of a character in accordance with
the purposes of its structure, being more
simple and severe than ornamental in its
details. He had been told to ring at the
private door on the right wing, and not at the
middle gate if his purpose were to see the
Lady Principal. His hand actually trembled
as he did so, and for a few moments he looked
blankly at the trim, exquisitely neat damsel
who responded immediately to his summons
without finding any words wherewith to address
her. When he did so he merely ejaculated
—

*miss Myles."

Miss Myles, the Lady Principal, sir, is not
at liberty to receive calls until one o'clock."

Take my card in to her at once, if you
please."

*' I cannot do so, sir ; my orders do not
allow me to enter the class-room except with
a telegram'*

Herbert felt irritated.

'' I have come some distance ; my time is
precious. Let your mistress know immediately
that I am here."

I cannot disobey my mistress, sir," said
the girl, with an offended air. " It is now
past twelve ; leave your card with me, and if
you call at one, the Lady Principal will have
left the class-room for the day. She is never
there in the afternoon ; she will then most
likely receive you."

The damsel evidently perceived Herbert's
irritation at this slight thwarting of his
desires, and her last sentence was influenced
by the wish to assert her dignity and to show
him her responsibilities, as well as by an intention
of soothing him by holding out the
possibility of the whole afternoon for him if
her mistress so willed.

Herbert had long been a ruling power — a
small despot, as it were — and when obstacles
were presented to him they were, apparently,
as ninepins, which only stand up for the express
purpose of being knocked over as soon
as possible. He gave his card, however, and
walked impatiently away.

The expression " Lady Principal " annoyed
him above measure. He began to connect it

with the objectionable word *' precise ; " but,
nevertheless, all unknowing as he was, he was
already under a different teaching, and more
tractable than he had been one day since, so
that the absurdity of his fretfulness was soon
apparent to him, and again the singer of last
night and the words of the singer came back
to him.

How strange that that lady should come
into my thoughts at this moment," he said to
himself. It almost seemed like a treason that
he should be thinking of any other woman
than one. He suddenly stopped short in the
midst of his rapid strides. " ' Not his wife,'
she said, ' but soon to become so.' Were not
those her words ? That voice, the Marigold
Guild, our flower — what, what if she should
prove to be — Good God ! Shall I meet her
only to find her the promised wife of that
middle-aged rector ? "

Every particle of colour faded from his face
as this thought took possession of him ; but
the long habit of judicial reasoning to which
he had been committed in the most important
years of life's mental training, had greatly
checked the imagination and idealistic faculty
once so prominent.

Absurd ! " he said, resuming his walk.
Cannot a middle-aged rector have chosen
an elegant-looking woman with a fine voice
for his second wife, as I presume, without my
rushing to the absurd conclusion that she
might prove to be the very woman to whom I
once plighted my faith and whom I have come
here to seek ? The Guild of St. Mary's takes
its name from the parish of St. Mary, and if
a badge were needed, what more suggestive
than that they should choose a marigold, the
flower of St. Mary ? "

Never had one single hour seemed so long
before. The minutes seemed to drag one
after another. Often he took out his watch
and held it to his ear, thinking that it must
surely have stopped. The distant chimes of
St. Mary's at last announced the coming of
another hour, and before the last echo died
away at the stroke of one, Herbert stood again
at the door of the Lady Principal's house,
nor waited long. The trim maiden responded
immediately as before, and, without pausing,
opened the door of an adjoining room and
held it aside for him to enter.

No sooner had he passed the threshold of

the apartment indicated than he became
conscious of an invisible presence. Simple,
almost to severity, yet without giving any
impression of bareness, the few pieces of
furniture were all conspicuous for their perfection
in taste. Books, engravings, vases,
hangings, all told the same tale — not wealth,
but refinement. It was evidently only a
room for granting receptions, and although
the eyes of the mind were chiefly gratified,
there were yet one or two chairs easy enough
to invite a temporary rest.

Herbert felt a pleasurable emotion rising
within him, and drew a long breath; but
what demon of doubt at this inopportune
moment whispered to him, " careworn, faded,
precise ? "

He hastily walked to the broad bay window
and had partly drawn one curtain to shade
the too strong light. He did not want his
first glance at that loved face to be too
fraught with regrets. His hold was still
upon the curtain when a slight sound made
him let it fall from his hand. He looked
round ; a figure stood in the doorway — a
graceful figure. He saw but the fine outline

of a pale face with an aureole of bright brown
hair. He moved not — he could not speak.
Two arms were outstretched to him ; a few
quick, noiseless steps and a woman lay on
his breast and clasped his neck ; then, only
then, as his head stooped to her face, then
only one word escaped him —

Mary," he said, and they held each other
in a long and silent embrace.

A nervous tremor suddenly shook the
strong man as he looked in silence on the
fair, calm brow of the woman who clung to
him, and spasmodically he clutched her still
closer to him.

'' Is it your very self, Mary ? Your very
self?"

Am I so old and changed, dear, that you
do not know me ? " she whispered, bending
her head back towards the light.

There is something awful in your beauty.
Why are you so calm ? Have you not
mourned at all through those years?" he
asked, tremblingly.

Were you not my husband all those
years ?"

There seems such a gap between us. I
am as far from you, though I hold you in

my arms, as far as the earth is from the
heavens ! "

The heavens must bow themselves, then,
and come down," she said, with a smile, and,
lifting her face to his, she kissed him on his
mouth.

For we live by hope
And by desire ; we see by the glad light
And breathe the sweet air of futurity ;
And so we live, or else we have no life.

Wordsworth.

How the minutes glided, quite oblivious of
the agonies of the kitchen potentate and the
early dinner hour ! The two newly restored
to each other only thought of their present
blissful reunion. At last, with an effort,
Herbert wrenched his mind from the now to
the future, and to its practical obligations.

'' Now, my Mary, to plain homespun. On
what day, at an early period, can you leave
this place of exile ? "

** Exile ! I am under engagements that
oblige me to stay until Christmas. I cannot
leave until my successor is appointed, and

then there is the oratorio ; but why leave
until — "

*' A fortnight after Christmas we sail for
India, Mary, and I have much business to
transact between now and then. I want to
make sure of my precious possession in
yourself at once, and I have, therefore, made
arrangements with my aunt to receive you
at Sunnyside until our marriage can take
place at the earliest opportunity. You must,
therefore, come out of your heaven of calm,
and submit to a little vulgar bustling, so that
you may be able to leave here in a day or
two. Why, what troubles you so much in
that thought that you change colour? Clouds
already in the fair translucent heavens ? "

With unfaltering voice she answered,
quietly —

<< I grieve to be obliged to say No, dearest
Herbert, but it cannot be, I cannot go to
Sunnyside, I cannot be married from your
aunt's house."

She rose as she said this, and stood erect,
looking taller than usual from her resolute
attitude. They were tears even that shone
in those eyes that but a moment before had

VOL. II. K

made Herbert tremble with their steady,
placid light, and cower within himself at the
thought that she was too high for him — she
who could bear grief and separation without
their leaving any marks ; whilst they had
seared him — heart and brow — as with a hot
iron.

'' Hither — hither," she said, in a low firm
voice ; " hither came I as to a refuge ; here
have I known peace — here, 0, my Herbert,"
and her head fell upon his shoulder. " Here
I have been honoured ; here more than all I
have felt what it is to be free. Sunnyside,
as I now look back upon it, was to me then
but a comfortable prison, where I could only
keep alive my inborn love of freedom, by
sometimes indulging in wild freaks which — "

A burning blush now overspread her whole
face as the occasion of their first meeting
came vividly before her.

Herbert Langridge understood what
memory it was that their first meeting had
conjured up, and saw how indecorous it might
now appear after ten years' interval in the
eyes of a Lady Principal, but his heart gave
a quick flutter, for the picture of his hama-dryad
had ever brought him light in the

darkness. He said nothing, but drew her
nearer to him.

"Mary," he said, tenderly, '' my only wish
has been to exalt you, if need be, in the eyes
of the world, and to—" he paused, seeing
how gravely she regarded him, " well, to do
you honour — to have you honoured in a house
where upon my account alone you met with
discourtesy."

*' Do me honour ! do me honour ! " There
was a sudden gleam in her eyes, and a still
warmer flush mounted to her cheek. '' You
mistake, Herbert ; I would rather be married
by a hedge priest like a ragged beggar girl
than be taken to Sunnyside expressly that I
might go forth thence as your bride in compensation
— "

'* My Mary ! Athene of the tranquil brow,
can then be angry," said Herbert, half smiling;
but is it well ? "

Yes, it is well. The sun shall not go
down upon my wrath, but unless a certain
vow made some years since could be turned
inside out, you will yourself see that for that
cause alone it cannot be."

What vow, and by whom vowed ? "

*' Oh, the vow of an unregenerate one who

responded to a well-meant, perhaps sincere,
courtesy on the part of Mrs. Hazelliurst,
which expressed the hope of my visiting her
occasionally, by a silent bow which sealed
the unspoken words, ' Only as the wife of
Herbert Langridge do I pass through these
gates again.' "

And that was your vow as you drove
away from Sunnyside, was it?" said Herbert,
tenderly, " after you had inculcated upon me
the duty of passive obedience?"

*' We were outside the gates, Herbert, and
I was no longer in your aunt's employ."

You are a casuist, Mary," he answered,
smiling ; *' but let be, your vow shall have all
due respect from me. But wherever the
ceremony takes place, all arrangements must
be hastily made, and preparations hurried
forward, as my time is so short, and 1 have so
much work in hand, and there is one thing
which of itself will give me no end of trouble.
I must secure a secretary before I go back,
and to find a good one is no easy task."

** Let me be your secretary, Herbert."

*' You, Mary, you ! Do you suppose that
even were you able that I should allow it for
one moment? You, as my wife, must take

up a certain position. You have had enough
drudgery in England ; but in India, as my
wife — "

An amused, half merry look banished
every trace of recent shadows as she said —

«« The glamour of India is upon you,
Herbert, with all its paraphernalia of punkas ,
palanquins, elephants, and howdahs." She
laughed outright. '' Fancy Miss Myles, the
governess, with a score of black slaves in
turbans and tinsel fanning her ! Who knows
but in time she may learn to chew betel nut?
Ah ! woe is me if I may not work ; your
India then would kill me in a year ; but
again I say, let me be your secretary."

"Ah! I am already beginning to feel like
a married man," said Herbert, laughing,
but there is one great obstacle, Mary,
which you cannot get over. My secretary
must have a good knowledge of Hindustan."

'' The candidate now soliciting for the post
has a good knowledge of Hindustan."

What ? "

'' She has a good knowledge of Hindu-stance."


*' You, Mary?"

Why, Herbert, how do you suppose that

I could have glided through those ten years
without — "

'without what?"

"Without being scored and wrinkled in
every direction, and without my eyes being
blurred and red with weeping ! The learning
of Hindustan to make myself a helpmeet
for my husband, has had a larger share in
keeping me in sweet restful ease than even
my guild or my bees, whilst I was waiting for
you, waiting for you, my love, for I knew
you would come back; I knew you would
come back."

Herbert gave no answer. The awe that
had mingled with his old admiration of far-gone
days seemed to be again reasserting
itself. He drew back the curtain still further,
and looked at her in silence.

The action of moving the curtain brought
to her remembrance how he was employed
when she was about to enter the room.

Why were you intending to draw the
curtain, Herbert, as I came in ? Did you
wish to meet me in the darkness ? "

Herbert looked at her. How could he
tell her what had impelled him to do so ?
That he had been so faithless in soul as to quail

before the epithets "careworn," 'faded?"
Truth at all cost ! Is that always the maxim
for noble souls ? Whether it should be so or
not, or whether the subtle evasions of Eastern
minds had somewhat impregnated his own
we know not, but Herbert answered after a
pause —

Look at my forehead, Mary, and there
you will read my reasons for placing myself
in the shade."

Mistrustful son of earth!" she answered,
smiling, shaking her head as if the truth of "this
statement was open to dispute. '' What a
thought for such a supreme moment ! But
whence came such a squadron of marring
lines? See, now, I will count them — one,
two, three, four — why, there are ten, large
and small," her fingertips touched them
lightly as she spoke. " Ah, my love, your
thirty years should not have stamped such
signs upon your brow."

'' Ten, are there ? Then it is, indeed, a
faithful record — one for each year that I was
banished from your presence, Mary."

*' Is it so ? then I must needs love the
record, though it might have been traced
with a gentler pencil, but they shall not be tome

as a record of a bitter past, but the
testimony of an ever-abiding truth ; and now,
with the persistency of a woman when
desirous to gain her point, will you grant tome
— supposing my capability be established
■ — the post of secretary ? "

As you will, you very woman ! "

Then, having so far gained my way,"
she resumed, laughingly, " I must now reconsider
your demands. I will send in my
resignation this evening in order that my
successor may be appointed as soon as
possible. Then there is the oratorio to which
I am pledged, and bitter indeed would bethe
disappointment to my poor girls if I
should fail them. These duties and others,
which I owe to my present position at Chip-pelham,
once fulfilled, then I am yours —
yours in will and in deed for ever — evermore."


What is this about an oratorio, Mary ?"
said Herbert, his brows again clouding.
Am I to understand that you sing in
public ? ''

Ah ! I have not told you that I have
founded a guild here, to raise and dignify
womanhood as represented by ray poorer

sisters who work here in factories, and
music is one of our chief educators. Once a
year we give an oratorio, and I am pledged to
sing one air on that occasion. My singing
that one air once a year gives me more
loving authority over my guild than — But,
Herbert, you look displeased."

As my wife," he answered, coldly, " you
must not sing at oratorios."

As your wife, no ; as the wife of my
Indian prince, no. But it will not be as
your wife, dearest, that I shall sing at my
last oratorio in Chippenham."

She laid a hand on each shoulder as she
spoke and regarded him with anxiety.

I know that it has become a fashion
lately," he continued, gloomily, *' for great
ladies who have fine voices not to be content
with singing in their own drawing-rooms,
but, under pretence of charity, to seek the
applause of the concert-room, and thus
air their vanity. My wife must not do
this."

She shall not, Herbert. But, alas ! for
my girls — my dear girls who have looked upto
me so long, and who love me as devotedly
as I do them — if I fail them now — You do

not ask it, Herbert ? Not yet being your
wife, you will not ask it ? "

There was no answer.

I have had nothing but kindness and
honour lavished upon me since I came here ;
and now that the supreme joy of my life
draws near — the privilege of walking by
your side, by your side, my dear" — there
was a little sob — '' until the goal of earth be
reached — must I forget those who have
helped me to pass these years of waiting so
easily, so easily ? Could you, could you ask
it ? You need not be present on that occasion
if it so chafes you even to think upon ;
but it concerns my honour to complete
certain engagements, and not to leave with
one page, although the last page of my life
here, rent asunder from those preceding it.
For that evening the protecting presence of
the Rector of St. Mary's will, as heretofore,
be my aegis — if one be needed."

The Rector of St. Mary's ! "

The truest, the best of friends. No
breath of silly gossip could ever waste itself
on a Lady Principal or foundress of a guild
around whom he threw the shielding arms of
his goodness."

'' Indeed ! "

Yes, indeed. But why do you repeat
indeed ' with such a tone ? *'

The Rector of St. Mary's and the Lady
Principal looked truly a comely couple last
night, but I knew not then that it was my
own betrothed that he was so tenderly cloaking,
and who left the hall hanging upon his
protecting arm, and whom he accompanied
home with his shielding presence."

Ah ! were you there ? Were you the
muffled figure in the porch whom I saw aS I
drove — as I drove away ? Oh, my dear,
dear love ! and I knew it not ! " Again her
faithful, loving arms closed round her doubting
lover's neck. " Herbert," she said,
gravely, drawing back her head and steadily
regarding him, " the Rector of St. Mary's
has had the honour of the foundress you
allude to thus, so much at his heart that he
would not plant his foot upon the step of a
carriage in which she sat. The Rector of
St. Mary's walked home through the snow
alone."

He is a widower, I hear. Do not some
people connect your name with his in another
fashion?"

Her arms released his neck.

Foolish tongues may wag for ever ; those
who heed them not can walk steadfast. The
hot sun of India, Herbert, must have burnt
into your brain to speak like this to me.
Ten years since you trusted me in a graver
matter than this, and asked no questions.
Alas ! my Herbert, this is worse than separation.
But if I am on my trial, know that
the Rector of St. Mary's is one of those
priests who incline to think celibacy a better
state for the clergy than marriage, and
who shrinks with horror from any second
nuptials. Had it not been so the Lady
Principal, at thirty-six years of age, might
have thought differently about the foolish
tongues."

She was silent. Herbert took her hand
and kissed it.

'* You will forgive me, Mary. I am not
as I was ten years since. I have much to
unlearn, much to unlearn."

And I much to learn."

Not of me, my poor love ; you can never
learn of me."

"I learnt the best of all knowledge ten
years ago from you, Herbert, and it can

never be unlearn," lie answered, calmly.
'' There, you were the sole teacher."

*' Whatever was it?" he asked, again
venturing to draw her close to him"'

Love ! " she answered, firmly.

I was but a pupil teacher, dearest, under
you, under you ; " and peace was again
sealed, and the old trust began to return to
his heart once more.

A faint, very faint, knock at the door
caused Herbert to look at his watch.

«« Why, my dear Mary, 1 have been here
two hours ! It is three o'clock. At what
time do you dine or take luncheon?"

At two, and my visitors are limited to
ten minutes. No doubt the cook has been
most alarmed."

'' I have transgressed ; I will now go.
To-morrow night I go to London. At what
hour may I venture to ask an audience before
I start?"

'' At the same hour as to-day."

I will not forget then what is due to the
Lady Principal of a girls' collegiate school,
and will only stay the allotted ten minutes,"
said Herbert, laughing.

If you please, the Rector called to inquire
if you had escaped taking a chill last night,
ma'am. He asked if he could see you, but 1
told him that a gentleman from foreign parts
was with you."

''My own dear love," thought Mary,
hardly heeding the girl's remark, *' has
surely learnt to be jealous ! Would he
have shown such symptoms if he had found
me quite destitute of any womanly grace,
whether of mind or body ? Strange inconsistency
of the human heart ! It hardly
seemed to bring him the gladness that I
thought it would have done, to find that I
was not even now altogether untimely. He
was all irritation, doubts, and fears. He has
been sorely tried — sorely tried. I fear that
he has trod the narrow path of duty, but
failed to gather flowers by the way."

And strange, indeed, it was that he who
through ten years of silent separation never
had one moment's doubt of the constant
devotion and faith of her whom he loved,
should merely by the contemplation of her
matured dignity of charms and grace, so
utterly unexpected, have felt a sudden impulse
of feelings never entertained before.

The solution of this odd problem of the
heart was that for ten years he had been
giving — giving, had been looked up to, and
received honours, and able himself to bestow
them, whilst at the same time he was indulging
a secret sense of a great injustice —
narrowing influences all of them.

He had made up his mind that his betrothed
was suffering equally with him, probably
more so. His pride through all his bitterness
felt a noble consolation in a certain sense, in
the daily reflection that were she spared to
him he would repay all — he would shower
gems upon her — would repay all her trials
with every accessory that station and wealth
can bestow.

He forgot for the time that all those things
which he would have to give were valueless
in her sight. But what else could he do for
her? He could not restore her lost youth
and loveliness. This bitter thought was
often the sole companion of many a sleepless
night. What fierce obstinacy flamed up
within him when his aunt recalled to him
that, over which he had so often himself
pondered with heart-woe unspeakable —
"careworn," "faded." Coming from her.

although they were but the echoes of his
own thoughts, how he revolted from them in
anger !

What impotent determination was his that
at all price she should be admired — that he
would raise her — that she as his wife should
be honoured for that fact alone ; and now,
instead of being able to use that omnipotent
power in a glorious spirit of defiance, he
finds a still most attractive woman, in full
enjoyment of her many talents and accomplishments,
some of which — as her gift of
song — were in fuller splendour and more
developed than before. Moreover, a calm,
rare-souled woman, enjoying her intellectual
life, blessing all around her, and being
blessed. A full life, apparently. What had
he to add to it ? He saw that he had
nothing except himself, and he felt it to be a
somewhat tarnished self from that other self
which had won the heart of that incomparable
woman ten years since. The old love had
never relaxed its hold, but it had glided more
into the region of a memory than a reality.
He had, as it were, to resuscitate the old
feelings before he could be glad in her beauty.
Here was nothing for a noble pity to raise or

lift up. The old sacred, awful love of his
unsullied, ardent young heart was reasserting
itself, but with the alloy of jealousy. When
that was cast out before the steadfast light of
her purity he would again be himself.

All these thoughts, mixed with some
shame, he revolved in his slow walk back to
his hotel. Once or twice he was nearly upon
the point of returning — returning to cast
himself at her feet, and kneeling there, to tell
her how bitterly he felt his own unworthiness,
and to implore her to bear with him; but
he checked the thought. He knew that her
lofty spirit would be wounded by his self-humiliation.


No, not by abject contrition from which
I myself might afterwards recoil can I enthrone
myself again in a heart like hers."

These were some of the regretful thoughts
and musings to which he gave himself up,
but poignantly as he felt a certain amount of
commiseration for himself in that he had lost
so much way, yet he felt that with her by
his side, retrogression and progression would
be one, even though the glowing poetry of
his youth could not be revivified.

VOL. II. L

The thoughts of the Rector of St. Mary's
as he also trod his way back dwelt exclusively
on " the gentleman from foreign parts " so
long closeted with the Lady Principal of the
Chippenham Collegiate School, for the neat-handed
Millicent had unnecessarily enlarged
upon the circumstance of this visit of a
strange gentleman. So unexampled a procedure
as her mistress retaining a casual
visitor for the space of two hours, was too
great a strain upon her usually compelled
reticence. The equipoise of her mind was
disturbed. She had been accustomed to the
stated calls of the Rector every other day, or
at intervals not less than two days at the
most, but he never stayed more than the
allotted ten minutes.

In the summer time he went into the
garden to look at the bees — it was wonderful
how great was the attraction of Miss
Myles's bees for him. He had bees of his
own — her bees were an off-branching family
from his own stock. He was an accomplished
bee keeper, knew all their habits from minute
observations of years, but yet it seemed as
if he had always something to learn of a
more valuable nature from the bees of the

Collegiate School. But when summer works
were over the bees could no longer require
his domiciliary inspection, so his calls were
then expressly to inquire about his two little
girls, aged respectively thirteen and eleven,
who were scholars at the College ; but then
he never sat down on those occasions, but
would stand hat in hand and exchange a few
civilities, sometimes even objecting to the
door of the reception-room being closed as
not being worth the while, for he had only a
few seconds to stay ; he had just to ask a few
questions about the Guild, of which he was
so staunch a supporter and patron. The
frequency of these visits excited no surprise
in Mary's heart. His wife had been her
dearest friend, her visits had been almost
diurnal, and as they usually came together,
"Mary had been quite habituated to his intimate
little calls before his wife died, which
was now five years since, and she would have
greatly missed them had they ceased with her
death, although the character of them was
necessarily modified.

A friendship between a man and woman
when no thoughts of love or marriage are
likely to obtrude, is more perfect than any

other, as well as more fascinating, and in this
instance there was no such innovation as a
possible lover to be dreaded which would have
been destructive of the restful attachment in
which adviser, brother, and pastor seemed
all united in the person of Mr. Bretton.

Mary was attached to him ; she appreciated
his reverent and courteous behaviour, his
careful watch over himself in all his intercourse
with her, so guarded and yet so
considerate and kind in all things, like indeed,
a good elder brother. She had perhaps
wondered occasionally, why he came so often
to inquire about the bees ; but she found the
solution in the great gap made in his home
by the loss of the intelligent companionship
of his affectionate wife, and hastily put the
questionable suggestion aside, and if anything
were wanting to strengthen her
reliance upon the disinterestedness of his
attentions, it was the strongly asseverated
opinions which the Rector avowed of the
desirability of a celibate clergy, and of the
great scandal of second nuptials.

A gentleman from foreign parts has been
two hours already with my mistress."

Mr. Brereton repeated this to himself with

some anxiety. For two or three years following
upon her arrival at Chippenham, Miss
Myles had been the subject of much speculation
in the society there. She was so
eminently attractive that there must be
some reason why she was not already
married. Of course she had met with a
disappointment, but would soon forget it in a
new conquest. After a very little while the
community at large voted her a puzzle.
They could not aflB.x the term '' disappointed "
to a lady whose cheerful serenity was* one
of her most marked characteristics, and they
could not accuse her of setting her cap, as the
vulgar phrase has it, at anyone in particular,
as her general attitude was one of lofty
aloofness; but it was reserved for the rising
medical man of the district. Dr. Swepstone,
physician and surgeon, to promulgate another
decided opinion, and quite explanatory, why
a woman who had beauty and grace could
appear so naturally oblivious to the superior
advantages which matrimony offered her.
And the way Dr. Swepstone arrived at his
explanation of this physiological contradiction
to the womanly proclivities, was in this
wise. He knew that a wife was a necessary

adjunct to the medical practitioner. He
was looking all about Chippenham and its
suburbs to find a lady worthy of being Mrs.
Swepstone. He wanted wealth with her,
but he was sensible enough to know that a
very attractive, amiable, and accomplished
woman would stand him in more stead in his
profession than a rich girl who did not possess
those qualifications ; so he deliberated.

When, however, the new mistress appeared
like a meteor on the dull manufacturing mind
of Chippenham, his mind was made up. He
would have preferred that Miss Myles had
not been a lady principal, but nevertheless,
here was an opportunity not to be lost. So
elegant and lovely a woman had never before
greeted his sight ; her fame for learning was
obscured by her quiet gentleness, and what
a voice ! He had means. What receptions
he could give with her to preside ! Long
extended visions of rising higher and higher
on the social platform, helped on by such a
consort, flitted before Dr. Swepstone. He
was thirty-five ; there was no time to be lost.
His mind was made np, and he called after
his third interview with her at the Rectory,
to offer her the honour of his alliance.

But he called at inopportune times, and
was not admitted ; he left his card, and his
sister called and left hers ; but Miss Myles
gave but a cold glance at either and forgot
them, so there was no help for it ; he must
make his proposals in a letter, a proceeding
to which he was most averse, considering
that his personality and its strong claims
upon an universal admiration would thus
be lost. However, he had no doubt of
success ; any woman would pause twice, he
considered, before committing the egregious
mistake of giving a refusal to the offer of his
hand — any woman of sense, that is, who was
gifted with sufficient discernment to be able
to appreciate both himself and his position ;
and Miss Myles was a person capable of
such discrimination. So he wrote. This letter
was one of the many stereotyped productions
of that class wherein the self love of the
writer is so evidently the principal factor in
the production that no finely-worded metaphors
can obscure it. Hastily running her
eye over the neat phrases which showed how
utterly destitute the writer was of any real
feeling, which want had compelled him to
make use of the disguise of many high-flown

words, Mary laid it on one side with indifference
; whilst she perused with real sympathy
the many applications from professors and
lecturers; often re-reading those latter with
grave thoughtfulness and many pauses.
These she replied to first and at full length,
and afterwards, in a few courteously-worded
lines, disposed of the whole affair of Dr.
Swepstone's proposals in a few seconds, which
note, Mary, pushing from her, left to be consigned
to the local post with the heap of
answers to the aforesaid 
impecunious lecturers upon
every conceivable subject of science, literature,
and art.

Dr. Swepstone was indignant, very indignant,
but not for long. He well knew
that no woman would be mad enough to
refuse him in so decided a manner with no
gentle suggestion of some prima facie reason
why, it was 'rout of her power" had she been
free to accept him. No, it was quite evident
she was not free ; she was a married woman
living apart from her husband — his fault,
undoubtedly ; but still that was the bare fact.
Miss Myles, assuming again her maiden
name, was a wife, and, although perfectly

blameless as regarded her husband, was not
blameless towards the Committee of the
Chippenham Collegiate School for Girls, who
would have considered a married woman
ineligible, and whom she had, therefore,
deceived.

Dr. Swepstone, having confided this explanation
to his sister, suppressed his indignation,
and gave Miss Myles, or rather the
Lady Principal of the Collegiate School, his
pity in its place. The Rev. Mr. Brereton,
however, as head of the Committee, must be
informed of it as a kind of sacred trust, to be
used or not according to his discretion. The
sold look of incredulity and disapproval
that Mr. Brereton's face exhibited when Dr.
Swepstone made the suggestion, merged into
an amused smile when Dr. Swepstone gave
some answer which led the Rector to suspect
that his knowledge was the offspring of
injured self-love, and he summed up the consideration
of the matter very shortly by
declaring that the lady herself by one glance
could shatter a thousand such cobwebs spun
of some distempered brain; an expression
never forgiven by Dr. Swepstoue. And
yet now for the second time, as the Rector

walked away without having a moment's
interview with Miss Myles, this same ugly
cobweb seemed to float like thin gossamer
threads across his mental vision in the words,
The gentleman from foreign parts is with
my mistress to-day." Was it, could it
be possible after all that the arrogant, odious
Dr. Swepstone had some shadow of truth in
the half-malicious assertions of his wounded
self-love, uttered something like nine years
ago ? And had some wretched husband,
bought off years since, now reappeared on the
scene for the purpose of making more
extortions ? This thought was a momentary
shock, whilst it dimmed the halo which, in
his conception of her character, had enveloped
the foundress of St. Mary's Guild with an
atmosphere of sanctity, as she had been for
him a strong living argument for the perfectibility
of the creature under certain limitations.
It was a momentary shock, that presently
subsided before the chivalrous sentiment
which suddenly took possession of him.

It is for me to defend her, to stand by
her firmly in her distress, to be a true
brother. I will surely shield her and protect
her from any consequences arising from an

early and ill-assorted union." He was impelled
to return at once to confront the man
who, presuming upon his title of husband,
dared to molest her, but at the very moment
that he formed this resolution the substantial
and imposing figure of Dr. Swepstone, driven
in his well-equipped Victoria, arrested ibis
intention. Whilst hats were raised in mutual
recognition, the Rector mentally brushed
away the cobwebs, flinging them, as it were,
whither they were first spun, and walked
home with a lightened heart.

In things which are agreeable, even sinners unite themselves
with the will of God ; but the saints unite themselves with the
Divine will even in things which are disagreeable and displeasing
to self-love.

Alphonsus de Ligugri.

On reaching his home, the Rector of St.
Mary's passed at once to his study and took
his seat at the writing-table, whereon were
piled some of the best theological writings of
all ages. They were there for references, to
be employed for a work on which he had
been long engaged (which indeed, he had
been preparing for years), and had written
much; as the pile of manuscripts which he
drew forth from a drawer witnessed unto.
It had lately progressed, however, very
slowly. Sometimes days, and even weeks,
would pass and not one word would be

added to it ; and at the rate of its production
the Rector, now in his forty-sixth year, would
certainly require to attain to a century of life
here below before his exhaustive volumes
could see the light. It was a strange fact
that of late years he had not written at all,
except after he had paid one of his short
visits to the Collegiate School, or after some
other occasion had been the means of bringing
him into the society of the Lady Principal
of that establishment. Still more noteworthy
is it that a great impulse was ever given to
this literary employment of his after every
musical rehearsal at the Guild, and that
anyone who could have obtained access to
the Rectory garden on those particular
nights would have seen a lamp burning in
the Rector's study until far into the small
hours. There was no one now in the
Rectors home whose loving watchfulness
would have endeavoured to restrain within
due limits that long-cherished habit of thus
encroaching upon the hours of rest. There
was no one now to comment with tender
expostulation upon those protracted vigils
which left their mark upon the face, which
met the wakening sun with sleepless lids.

although his fine frame and constitution
seemed impervious to so great a strain.

On the morrow after a night so spent
indeed, instead of weary listlessness, the
Rector seemed invaded by a fresh accession
of energy, tempered by a still more tender
sympathy than usual. The sick man whom
he would visit would realize unwittingly that
the pressure of his hand was more fervent,
and that the tones of his voice were deeper,
or, as had been said on one occasion, " that
they right thrilled through one, as if they
came direct and straight from the heart."
A sensation as of a blessing brought to him
in some mysterious way would steal over the
invalid, a glow at his chilling breast, and a
lulling of all pain. With what wistful looks
would his eyes follow the retreating figure of
his pastor when he bade him farewell ; and
then he would turn on his side to sleep with
a smile, as though a foretaste of the rest so
near at hand had been brought to him by
that benign presence.

Alongside the great sympathy of his
nature there was, moreover, a still more
dominant characteristic, in his inborn feeling
of reverence. Had he been born seventeen

centuries earlier that frame of mind alone
would have enrolled him among those
workers who could live and breathe only in
the sanctuary. In this nineteenth century
world, however, in which he found himself,
a contemplative life was not in the path of
his duties. The same reverence for the
Eternal which in the first centuries of the
Church might have taken him to the cell and
the ascetic life, in the requirements of the
present age bore him to an active life for
humanity. It was the same reverence, not
transmitted, but incorporated with it, as the
necessary outcome of that higher reverence.
This reverence of the Creator in the created,
this reverence of God in humanity, had kept
him unstained and free from all soil in his
passage through life. A power to himself,
as to others, it was a power ever manifest,
yet in a way so free from all that is usually
associated with a manifestation of power over
others, that no one could ever tell wherein
it lay. No more dignified presence than
that of the Hector of St. Mary's could well
be imagined, nor one in which dignity was
so perfectly free from the faintest shadow of
haughtiness. The most disreputable of his

parishioners received the same deep courtesy
that he would have given to a prince, and
cowered sometimes before the greeting as
with sudden shame and inner conviction of
his worthlessness, feeling, as it were, some
fragmentary sense of a divine presence in
the world, whilst that deep-toned voice rung
in his ears.

Mr. Brereton was not given to Biblical
quotations, and not often was the name of
the Blessed One upon his lips. There was
a tale current at Chippenham how that the
Rector one day upon suddenly meeting the
most notorious reprobate of the place and
stopping to greet him, the graceless blasphemer,
out of mere habit, gave vent to a
careless oath and invoked the Holiest. No
apparent anger, no flashing of the eye sternly
denounced the offender. *' Blessed be His
Holy Name for ever and ever ! " said the
Rector, and raised his hat, whereupon Dick
Watkins, prize-fighter, bully, and gamester,
under the contagion of the Good, pulled
off his cap, and dashing it to the ground said,
Amen." Did a drunkard cross his path, and
he, alas ! was but too common in Cheltenham,
the Rector did not turn aside, but would

salute him as if he were sane and in his right
mind. Some good people had expostulated
with him, therefore, and had ventured to
suggest that by so doing he was countenancing
vice, at which for sole answer the Elector
would smile. Upon such an individual as
the above, when thus overcome by his inveterate
weakness, the Eector would call the
very next day, as though he were an invalid,
and would behave to him with as much tender
solicitude as if indeed his affliction had been
involuntary, a disease, and not a sin. How
often had the small spark of the inner consciousness
within the offender been lighted
up by this silent forbearance of a superior
nature ! A sense of grateful appreciation at
this wonderful sympathy had several times
been awakened in a soul apparently dead to
every sacred influence, when not even a word
of expostulation had been uttered.

It had been remarked by some who had
the highest admiration for the man and his
devoted life, that he had no sense of humour,
and this was in some measure true, but in nowise
was this deficiency the result of austerity.
In the laughter of earth, in her joyous moods
with " laughter holding both her sides " he

VOL. II. M

joined not. Noisy exuberance of all kinds lie
was averse to, and possibly his mind had little
kinship with fun as it is generally understood;
but the mirthfulness of Nature in its simplicity
and calm serenity he was no stranger to. A
bright and tranquil soul, so at least he
appeared to be, one who saw only the deep
things of life, but whose heart's love went out
to the farthest and darkest corners of the
earth. A cultivated soul, too, who allowed
none of the good gifts which he had received
to become obsolescent from disuse and
neglect.

In his early manhood Robert Brereton had
chosen the Church as his profession, and at
about the same epoch he had also chosen his
wife. At the time of either choice perhaps
he had not felt the one or the other to be a
necessity of his life, without which it would
always be overshadowed. His deeper nature
was as yet slumbering, the clerical life came
to him from circumstances, and Marion
Crawford became his affianced bride because
he saw more of her than any other girl, and
because she was worthy of a good man's love.
But before he was ordained deacon a change
came over him and his feelings. He doubted

within himself if the married state was one
the most desirable for a Christian priest. The
longing after holiness and the perfect life
grew within him day by day, and the example
of ages, he thought, had shown this to be more
possible in the life of the celibate. And yet
he was under an engagement to be married !
Looking within at the man and his temperament,
it may be questioned whether his
attachment to Marion Crawford was ever of
the nature of love. He himself at that time
knew naught of this. The stronger impulse
being the religious one, he concluded that
divine love was of necessity the highest form
of love, and that it was only to be expected
that the lesser love — the love he felt for
Marion Crawford — should burn within him
with a fainter glow than that other which
kindled his warmest aspirations, but, such as
it was, it was that kind of earthly love which
sufficed for the majority of men. It was for
him, however, a source of many a midnight
conflict, but though his engagement was
unnecessarily protracted, no thought of cancelling
it ever obtruded itself into his mind,
nor ever did he suspect that the love he
offered to this good girl was a secondary

feeling in him. She was twenty-five, and he
thirty-two, when having been presented with
the living of St. Mary's, he was roused to the
consideration that if the marriage were any
longer delayed he would indeed be chargeable
with having behaved untimely to his virgin,
and therefore they were married. In that
home to which he took his bride how smilingly
the years passed ! His wife thanked God
every night for the husband He had given
her. No woman was so blessed as she in her
fond estimation. And the years glided on,
and two daughters were born to them, and
in the fifth year of their marriage Mary
Myles came to Chippenham as the Lady
Principal of the Collegiate School. How the
two women cemented a lasting friendship the
one with the other it needed not to relate.

Marion Brereton was at once dazzled and
charmed in her sisterly communion with a
mind so superior to her own, and yet not so
abstracted as that of her husband ; in this
association with the mind of a friend who
was able to fill up some hours of her life
which were unavoidably spent alone, when
she seemed to be ever the gainer, whilst the
sweetness of the giver removed all sensation

of inferiority. As for the Rector, be appeared
at once to acquire a new vitality out of this
bond between his wife and her new friend.
The poet's happiness in such a partnership
of affection was repeated in this sisterly
friend, his wife and himself; those "two
beloved women." The intellectual calm, the
full soul, the many gifts of that friend were
more to the priest than the beauty of person,
on which he never allowed his own mind to
dwell, and regarding which he answered
abruptly whenever his lively Marion remarked
upon it. The disciple of celibacy in
the abstract, though the husband of a fair
wife, never permitted himself to discourse on
the personal charms of women ; like Job, he
had " made a covenant with his eyes."

Into this happy home where sweet discourse
made glad many an hour of relaxation. Death
came, and the Rector, after ten years of untroubled
married life, was a widower. Now
all was changed; into this desolate house the
companion of his late wife could come no
more. Great was the assiduity of would-be
consolers when the appointed days of mourning
were accomplished, and many were the
aspirants to the task of filling up the void in

his heart. But the typical Protestant clergyman,
followed by a flock of female devotees,
with mothers' meetings, Bible classes, and
Dorcas assembling were not for the widowed
Rector of St. Mary's. The office of overseeing
these was relegated to others. The
pious ladies must carry on their good works
without his co-operation. His duties were
by the altar, in the pulpit, by the sick bed,
in the home of the penitent or the sinner.

The formation of a Guild for working girls
had long been a favourite project with Miss
Myles, and had also been the subject of many
an evening's conversation between the three
friends, when all the possibilities of the
scheme, and the necessary preliminaries to
be used in order to insure its success as a
means for bringing a more feminine development
into the class for which it was designed,
were amply discussed. Opportunities for receiving
evening instruction on various subjects
were to be elaborated and organized ; but
above everything else the cultivation of music
was to receive the greatest attention. The
capability of these girls for studying the art
practically had been abundantly proved.
The Rector was solicited to be the head as

well as the patron of the intended Guild, and
the Lady Principal of the Collegiate School,
as the Foundress, was also elected to act as
Lady President. Its name was chosen by the
Rector, who desired that it should be called
the Guild of St. Mary's, after his church, and
because the institute in which the meetings
would be held was also situated in the parish
of St. Mary's. One of the committee very
pertinently remarked that the name of the
foundress was also Mary, and that decided
it. The musical classes, for which elementary
tuition in singing was given by teachers
selected by Miss Myles, met once a week for
the practice of oratorios in the concert room
of the institute, at which times the Lady
President consented to be present, but with
closed doors. The Eector was also asked to
give to these meetings the double sanction of
his presence, both as a compliment and as a
token of respect due to the foundress, who
would otherwise be unsupported, and to this
he heartily assented. He was theoretically a
musician, and perfectly understood and appreciated
good music.

Thus for four years without a break, except
during the time when an epidemic almost

decimated the town, the Rector of St. Mary's
and the foundress of St. Mary's Guild met
once a week in the hall of the Literary
Institute. There were other meetings, but
they were so brief that they hardly amounted
to anything more than an interchange of
friendly greetings.

Mr. Brereton, outside his life of duties, had
one simple pleasure which savoured of
husbandry, namely, bee-keeping. It had
survived his boyhood, his college days, all
changes, until the time of Miss Myles's arrival
at Chippenham. It was a happy coincidence
that the new head-mistress was found to have
the intention also of keeping bees, as by herself
bringing bees into her little garden she
would avoid, maybe, a continually frustrated
longing that they would come of their own
accord to seek it. The hum of insect life
was as sweet to her ears, as has before been
remarked, as the colours of flowers, and the
forms of plants, were grateful to her eyes.
The mutual taste was the initial bond of
friendship between the Rectory and the
School-house. Here the Rector and Mary
were in the positions of teacher and pupil.
His character possessed in an eminent degree

the patience and clear insight required for
an observer in the natural sciences.

No other distraction throughout his life
had ever brought to bear upon him so many
calming influences as the study of those wise
little people. In the first days there was
much to tell, much to watch over ; and until
the hives were well established the Rector
was almost a daily visitor to the garden of
the Collegiate School. Later on, these visits
subsided to twice or thrice a week. When
the bees, by reason of the wintry season,
were not, as has been observed, the motive
for his frequent visits, there were his two
little girls, in whose studies, as their father,
he was, of course, much interested. And
thus the years sped on, and in all the time
succeeding upon her friend's death Miss
Myles had not crossed the Rectory threshold
but once, except on those official occasions
when the Committee of the Guild met in the
Rector's library for the transaction of business,
and a carriage always took Miss Myles
home, which was an effectual preventative to
any necessity for an escort.

Only once had she crossed that threshold
alone, and upon what occasion ? It was during

the time of the epidemic, when Guild and
musical meetings were suspended and half of
the well-to-do inhabitants were dispersed,
the Rector and Miss Myles, with the medical
staff, being left comparatively alone. Miss
Myles had closed the school some weeks
earlier than usual as a precautionary measure,
holidays not being far distant. The Rector
had sent his daughters to the seaside, and
urged that the mistress should withdraw also
for a time.

"And yourself?" she had asked.

I stay here with my poorer brethren'*
he had said.

And I also," was her quiet rejoinder.

His girls were in safety, and therefore,
without any misgiving, the Rector devoted
himself heart and soul to the work before
him. As the illness was diminishing, and
when all apprehensions for him personally
seemed to be unnecessary, he, however,
succumbed. The strength and fine health
that had warded off the disease at first had
become enfeebled by excessive and continuous
exertions, and all Chippenham was
convulsed to hear one morning that their
Rector had been suddenly laid prostrate.

that he was attacked by the disease in its
worst form, and that his life was in great
danger. A skilled nurse was promptly
procured and the highest medical advice
engaged, by whom it needs not to be stated.
Every day Mary inquired at the Rectory
door, and every day turned away heavy at
heart, for the daily bulletins were not encouraging
: " Delirium great, and excessive
exhaustion."

At last, after three weeks, came a more
hopeful answer. The nurse went down* to
see her herself, and reported with a smile
that there had been no delirium during the
night, that the patient had slept, and the
pulse was fuller and less quick. Was it well
considered that Miss Myles, with a throb of
grateful joy, determined to see him, if
allowed, on the following day ? The disease
was not contagious, and she had no work todo
; the school was closed, and the days were
very dreary.

With a basket of flowers and fruits, she
presented herself on the following morning
at the Eectory and laid her petition before
the nurse.

*' Yes, I think there will be no objection.

He mentioned you yesterday, and seemed
gratefully impressed upon hearing that you
were well. He is sleeping now. Come with me
softly into the room, and when he awakes he
will be refreshed and able to see you for a
few seconds. You may exchange a few
words, no more. And this is only a concession
to you, because you are so well
skilled in all that a sick-room demands ; and
you are, moreover, so valued a friend."

And Mary, standing at some distance
timidly aloof, looked upon the altered face
of her friend with compassion and dismay.
Quietly, and without any sound or rustle of
garments, she deposited her flowers in her
own tasteful way about the room ; and was
still standing with some in her hand hesitating
where to put these last when the sick
man opened his eyes.

*' Who is that?" he said, faintly, but calmly,
to the nurse, who hastened to rearrange his
pillows.

Miss Myles," she whispered, with a reassuring
smile.

Send her away — send her away ! " he
cried, excitedly. '' Go ! go ! go ! " he said,
trying in vain to raise his arms to wave her off.

The nurse made a sign ; Mary stole away
to weep outside the door. Half-an-hour
passed, when the nurse emerged.

It must not be repeated," she said. *' He
does nothing but moan and murmur, ' That
precious life ! ' "

And this was the man who, returning the
second time from the School-louse, bore
with him the maid's remark, 'the gentleman
from foreign parts is with my mistress again
to-day," and now sat down before his writing-table
and proceeded to examine the manuscripts
of his forthcoming works, the one
entitled, " The Crown of Virginity ; or,
Celibacy as an Ordinance of the Church : a
manual for those intending to present themselves
for Ordination to the Diaconate,"
which treatise had been commenced in the
years of his betrothal; and the other, " The
Heinous Sin of Second Nuptials in the
Christian Priesthood," the offspring of his
pen since his widowhood.

The Eev. Robert Brereton turned over
page after page of this latter work in an
absent manner, as though the words there
were perceived by his eyes but received no

intelligent meanings therefrom. All sense in
those manuscript sheets was in reality blotted
out by the shadow of " a gentleman from
foreign parts " which intervened between
his sight and the pages lying before him.

Not one of the group of holy women
gathered into the annals of the Church from
every age had been ever presented to his
mental vision as clad in a more snowy robe
of purity than the foundress of St. Mary's
Guild, and to think that an earthly cloud
under the substantial form of some graceless
husband was about to interpose itself before
that radiance was fraught with sorrowful
forebodings. Why should he conclude that
this unusual visitor, who made such unprecedentedly
long stays, must be a husband ?
Recognizing whence originally came this
suspicion he pushed back his papers with as
much decision as he had flung back the suggestion
of Dr. Swepstone some eight years
since, and leaving his seat by the writing-table
went to the fire and, leaning his arm on
the mantelpiece, gazed into the dancing
flames intently as if seeking through them
some solution for his doubts. From this
attitude he was aroused by the arrival of the

gentleman acting as Secretary to the Collegiate
School, who requested an audience.
Placing a chair by the fire, he drew his own
opposite the Secretary and awaited his
communication, which he seemed in no hurry
to make, but sat without speaking and somewhat
abstractedly all the while twirling
in his fingers what looked like a letter.

Perhaps you have already heard and
know that which I have come to tell you,"
said the Secretary at last, looking at the fire,
a vague and not very lucid observation, and
not certainly one which carried its own
explanation with it.

Heard what ? " said the Rector.

Then you have not heard ? " remarked the
Secretary.

No ; I have not heard."

The Rector's thoughts were quite away,
and he answered mechanically. It was, he
supposed, some question of funds and money
matters connected with the Collegiate School.
The Secretary was a slow-speaking man,
who loved to take his time ; it would come
out presently, but the Secretary most unexpectedly
and contrary to all precedent
abruptly discharged his shot forthwith.

'well, we are going to lose our headmistress."


It was not a shot ; it was a volley in its
effects, for the Rector sank back in his chair
unable to answer. Here was the dark cloud
closing round him with a swiftness quite out
of his calculations.

"Here is her letter of resignation; of
course worded in the sweetest manner, but
decisive nevertheless," and the Secretary
handed the letter to the Eector, who took it,
but held it in his hand without offering to
read it.

No reason given ? " he asked, after a
pause.

*' One that is quite conclusive in its way ;
merely that an event which she had long
contemplated as likely to occur at any time
has taken place, and that she would be
required to leave England for India in the
course of a few weeks."

The scoundrel ! '' mentally ejaculated the
Eector.

If anyone could have any power to
induce Miss Myles to reconsider this decision
it would be yourself, Rector."

"I will see her tomorrow morning; not
that I have much hope about it.

No," continued the Secretary. " I know
that she is not a lady who acts from any
light or trivial motive."

"No."

*sit has no reference to income, or that
could be soon got over."

Yes."

How laconic the Rector was ! The Secretary
had expected some warmer expressions of
regret at the great loss the school would
sustain in this projected withdrawal. The
Secretary rose.

You will see the Lady Principal early tomorrow,
and use your influence ? "

Yes, but it will be of no use."

When the door closed upon his visitor the
Rector sank back again into his chair and
covered his face with his hands.

Lost, lost to me for ever ! '' he groaned.

Half-an-hour afterwards the Rector, having
replaced all his manuscripts in the drawer
whence he had taken them, took up his hat,
which he had cast upon a chair. Summoning
his housekeeper, he said —

** I am going out for sick calls. Take no
account of dinner ; but tell Miss Margaret
that I should like her to come to me in my

VOL. II. N

study this evening after she has prepared her
lessons," and the Rector went forth with
grief at his heart to carry the sunshine of
the good tidings to the heavy-laden and the
weary.

Margaret Brereton, the eldest born, was
the counterpart of her father — a fine nature,
not buoyant and vivacious like the younger
sister Lilian, but thoroughly deep and true,
with somewhat of the repose and sunlit
depths which characterized the foundress
of St. Mary's Guild. She had not inherited
her father's intellectual capacity, but shared
with him in a minor degree

The reason firm, the temperate will,
Endurance, foresight, strength, and skill.

What a pearl of great price art thou, my
Margaret," said the father, as re-entering his
study, he found his daughter already there
awaiting his return. ''If I had had to ring
for you, child, it is just possible that I should
have declined to send for you. I am very
tired, and shall be but a sorry companion.
Nevertheless, I am glad that you have come.
Now don't ask me to talk, my dear. Go on
prattling of your own affairs — school work
and so forth — and I will be the listener," and

the Rector drew lier chair close to his and
took one of her hands in his own, and
Margaret, glancing at her father's face, saw-therein
what she had sometimes seen before,
after sick calls and death-bed visitations.

"Perhaps someone has died this afternoon ;
perhaps old Betty Gummeridge, poor old
soul ; but I won't ask," she thought, and
Margaret, in a subdued voice, recapitulated
all the events of the week in that world
which she alone knew. Necessarily • the
name of the head-mistress was often on her
lips, and frequently she asked questions to
which she got no other answer than a little
pressure of the hand which lay on the knee
of her father; or an occasional "Go on
talking," when she paused to regard him
with wistful looks, being fully convinced that
he had not heard one word of all that she
had been saying. At last the talker herself
succumbed, the broken words came out in
fragments, and her head drooped upon her
father's shoulder.

My poor little Maggie ! What a brute I
am ! " said the Rector, starting. " Go to bed,
my dear. What a shame to keep you up so
long after your usual time."

I am so sorry, dear father," said Margaret,
piteously.

"Your sweet voice bas refreshed me
greatly. Good-night, darling," said the
Rector, embracing her.

*' But you will go to bed too, will you
not?" she asked, pausing at the door.

*' Yes, Margaret, before long."

Before long." When the heart is
oppressed with any burthen, to lie down
to sleep is a vain delusion ; better to watch
and wrestle with the grief until sleep comes
of its own free will.

Mr. Brereton extinguished his lamp and
replenished his fire. He would argue out
the whole matter at once alone, and in the
quiet of night. There was now no doubt
about it — he would soon be deprived of the
light of that woman's presence, and henceforth
he must walk in darkness. This proposition
was not, however, admitted by him
without encountering stern opposition. He
was not a man to lose sight of the first
claims which the Church had to his affections
and to his life devotion ; but the conflict was
severe.

Hour after hour passed, and the last embers

of the fire were dying out when a more subtle
question obtruded itself.

'' If after all she is not married ! "

Abound of the heart followed this thought.

''If it were the will of God," lie pursued,
listening to the suggestion ; but the moment
it was entertained the same moment the
thought was flung aside as coming from the
fountain of evil.

God help me ! " murmured the Rector,
and he wept.

There was a light, scarcely audible footfall
near ; the Rector lifted his head. By the
flickering ashes he saw a glimpse of a figure
clothed in white. At any time his mind was
ready and his heart open for any seraphic
visitant.

Who art thou ? " he asked firmly.

Father," said a gentle voice, as a little
form clad in night apparel glided up to his
side, "father, who has died ?'*

And the father, clasping his daughter to
his breast, cried —

Truly, child, you are my good angel ; but
why have you done this ? "

I thought somebody had died, father,
that you cared for very much. I have seen

you look so before when people have died,
and I thought you would not grieve so for
poor old Betty Gummeridge, and so I
listened, and listened to hear you go to bed,
and at last I came to look for you."

With no thought for yourself ; no dressing
gown, no wrap, this chill, foggy night."

The Eector took from a bureau his
travelling maude with which he swathed
her round.

Now that I have made you like a mummy
I must perforce carry you or you will unroll by
yourself," and he caught her up in his arms,
notwithstanding many a loving protest, which
ended in her laying her head on his shoulder
and clinging round his neck.

Good-night, Margaret," said the Eector,
as he closed his daughter's bedroom door
after him ; " we shall both sleep soundly
after this."

My father did not tell me after all who
has died," thought Margaret, as she laid
her head upon her pillow.

In a word we should look upon all things which may happen tous
as from the hand of God. I say this that we may avoW the
delusions of many who say — If I were in a desert, if I were in a
monastery — if I were anywhere else but here — I should become a
saint. They say I should do— I should do,

St. Alphonsus de Liquor.

Another light had been burning through the
small hours simultaneously with that in the
study of the Rector of St. Mary's, but in this
case the watcher was a woman, a woman to
whom had come that morning, as she herself
had said, '' the supreme joy of her life," the
realization of her hopes, the fruition of love,
for which she had calmly waited, nor
doubted ever, whilst youth, the era of love,
was year by year passing away.

The fine health and the style of beauty
possessed by Mary Myles had warded off the

withering effects of time. Of this she was
calmly conscious. A film of fretful discontent
too often spreads itself over the lives of
women, and, like aphides on flower blooms,
eats away their beauty faster than the usual
decay of time ; and not much less fatal are the
habits of luxury and indulgence to which so
many are pledged. At thirty-six Mary
Myles was still very beautiful. The long life
of work, loved though it had been, was now
over, and the lover for whom she had waited
was come at last. Why, then, did she sit
upon that evening following upon his coming
with clasped hands, hour after hour looking
into the fire with an aspect as if she were
revolving thoughts as grave as they were
deep ? Hers was now a face with whose
gravity was also blended a touch of pathetic
sadness. jN"o such cloud had hung over that
broad brow since the agonizing night in
which, overcome by passion, she had cried
aloud in her anguish, " They have taken
away my love, and where shall I find him
again ? " In that dark hour she had lifted up
her soul to the Eternal and made a compact
with herself evermore to abide in peace.
Daughter, give me your heart," had been

an appeal to her from the Infinite, as it has
been for centuries to the seekers after
spiritual life.

Was it after all a rending of an idealistic
vision, this return of her lover, this husband
of her youth as she always fondly held him to
be ? She, who above all would rather have
been a Beatrice than any living wife, however
happy, could she not recognize in him
the Dante of her aspirations ? Where was
the promise of his youth ? Was she after
all to be the victim of moods and tempers —
she who was conscious of a growth in herself
? She had thought out after her own
fashioning how the glowing, ardent youth, so
full of poetry, must have developed into something
grander and nobler still, more calculated
to command her adoration than the
beardless boy to whom she had dedicated her
life ? Was it all an illusion ? Did she not
recognize in this prematurely aged man the
attributes which had won her ? Was this
suspicious, arbitrary, irritable, and restless
lover the Herbert Langridge who had
thought of her as the hamadryad of the
chestnuts?

These, in sober truth, were the thoughts

that took away all sleep from her eyes on
that night after their first meeting.

Unbidden images of the many worthy men
who had sought in vain to win her affections
passed before her; she could not help it —
memories like dreams come without solicitation.
She had withheld her heart for the
best one ; she " must needs love only the
best," and she had woven round Herbert
Langridge the many rayed garment of her
fancies until he had seemed, indeed, the very
best— the best in his youthful promise — how
far the best in his manhood's prime ! And he
was here, and her heart had been more
troubled, and more tears had come to her
eyes in their first interview than she had been
acquainted with for years. She, who had
thought that she had overcome all weak
emotions, had again succumbed to their
influence, had been betrayed into anger, into
something very like peevish impatience. All
this she reviewed, but she did not swerve from
her fealty to him whom she had for ten years
recognized as her husband. Hers was a
truly loyal soul, but a deep pity took the
place of admiration, and strange it was
that the large compassion and scheme of

compensation that Herbert Langridge had
nursed and brought over with him from
India to be generously poured out at the feet
and for the service of the wasted idol of his
youth, was by a singular reversion to be
dedicated to him by her for whom it was
intended. His early disappointment, if it had
not permanently changed his nature, had
obscured its finer quality. This deterioration,
she thought, would not have occurred had
she been by his side. The remainder of her
life was then at all cost due to him who hard
suffered so great a loss indirectly through
herself.

But warped though he was from a too
exclusive dictation of every faculty of mind
and spirit to means for an end, the Herbert
Langridge of ten years since was not utterly
wrecked in his pursuit of honours and wealth.
His devotion to the memory of one woman
alone, his persistent constancy, his purity of
life were enough in themselves to redeem any
man, and all these he had kept as a sacred
deposit. What then was to hinder him from
calling back to himself again the finer essences
of being that had faded out of sight in uncongenial
surroundings? He reflected with

a shudder upon what might be the possibility
from future daily contact with imperiousness
and restlessness upon the impressible nature
of the woman who loved him. In the silent
hours of communing with himself that very
evening he asked what right he had to dictate
to one who held within herself such evidence
of right-judging and right-doing ? Was it
not unbounded arrogance to ask concessions
to his pride from such a woman ? Could he
not confidently leave to her the maintenance
of her own dignity ? " It is my own
ignorance, my Anglo-Indian prejudices that
alone blind me to the true nobility of her
position here." It was, therefore, in a mood
much less captious and resentful towards
*' girls' Collegiate schools " and guilds, and
all the world in which his future wife had
been dwelling so long, that Herbert sought
her the next day, and in a few manly words
left to her all future arrangements preliminary
to their departure for India ; and
her lamp was not burning that night when
St. Mary's chimes, in slow and measured
cadence, told that another day was near.

Millicent, when Mr. Brereton calls show
him into my private room."

Such a command was another surprise to
Millicent, and almost as great a one as the
long visits of the " gentleman from foreign
parts" on the two preceding days. No
gentleman had entered this sanctuary during
her ministrations, not even the mysterious
gentleman from foreign parts," whose name
she persisted to ignore to herself, although
compelled to repeat it in its integrity when
announcing him to her mistress.

Mr. Brereton felt immediately that something
was going to be revealed, when he was
ushered into Miss Myles's holy of holies, the
very perfection of simplicity and elegance,
yet not destitute of the more enjoyable
quality of cosiness.

I am quite free this afternoon, and T
hope, Mr. Brereton, that you will be able to
give me a little more of your valuable time
than usual. I have great need of your
counsel."

It was coming then ; but nevertheless she
did not look troubled — did not look as if she
were under the thumb of a scoundrel of a
husband ! As Mary had taken the initiative,
he sat down in the chair placed for him
opposite to her, and waited ; but Mary, full

of regrets at leaving Chippenham and all the
associations that bound her to the place, felt
herself restrained at the very onset, and also
remained silent. The Rector noticed her embarrassment,
and said gently —

Is it in reference to your late communication
to our Committee, which was placed
in my hands last night by the Secretary,
dear Miss Myles, upon which you wish to
consult me ? "

"Hardly that, Mr. Breton, as that
admits of no reconsideration."

The Rector looked at her again ; no, she
was not so self-possessed as usual.

'' You have only to command me," he
said, earnestly ; " if my poor services can be
of the slightest use to you — if you are — that
is to say — in any difficulty."

The difficulty is not with myself, save
that, as you may imagine, it gives me no
small pain to be obliged to leave Cheltenham
— to leave you."

Then I infer the obligation to go, as
you conceive it to be, is not of your own
seeking ? "

'' Oh ! I must not say that — I cannot say
that," she replied, with more animation. " It

is no less a joy than a duty which takes me
hence."

These scoundrels are always adored by
the best of women," said the Rector to himself.


*' But there are very few joys quite unmixed
with pain," she continued.

Is your only pain now. Miss Myles, in
the fact that you are going to leave us ?
How am I to help you in that ? What
counsel can I give you here ? That will be
shared by all in Chippenham. This unexpected
resignation is nothing less than a
blow to the whole community. I speak not
of myself ; God forbid that I should express
any selfish considerations on this matter. T
speak for the whole of Chippenham."

It seems almost a treason to say that I
am sorry, or else I, too, would say that I am
very, very sorry."

Mr. Brereton looked full at her, there was
something so sympathetic in that look that
she felt compelled to speak out.

You see, dear Mr. Brereton, that we
have waited so long — we have not even met
for ten years," she said, almost apologetically.


Mr. Brereton made a slight gesture of
impatience.

Something is due," rejoined Miss Miles,
in a firmer tone, as she noticed this movement,
" to my future husband for his almost
unparalleled constancy ; hence it is, that I
feel compelled to consult his convenience
alone, and to leave my post at a shorter
notice than courtesy would otherwise demand,
but Mr. Langridge has to leave England
to return to India in the beginning of
January."

The unconnected and tortuous manner in
which Miss Myles, in a style so unusual to
her, had hitherto evaded a direct explanation
of her motives for leaving, had been misconstrued
by Mr. Brereton into a confirmation
of his suspicions, but he had followed
her last words with attention, and now saw
the whole skein unravelled. She had not
come to Chippenham in the double character
of wife and spinster, and she was clear from
all such imputations. The whole tale of
patient constancy and devotion, which that
one sentence revealed, was one sure to commend
itself to the admiration of such a man
as the Rector of St. Mary's. He did not

Speak ; he was gathering up all the links of
the chain, and his eyes filled with tears.

"Would it not be treason to say that I
am sorry ? " she said, gently, and she laid
her hand on his.

He did not withdraw his hand, as he
would have done at any other time had her
soft palm touched his, but took her hand
and held it in both his own.

*' It would indeed be treason to say you
are sorry, my dearest friend. None of us
may say we are sorry. All who suffer frdra
your departure must rejoice in your joy.
God bless you," and he rose to go.

'' Do not leave me yet, Mr. Brereton. I have
some requests to make. I will ring for tea."

The Rector sat down.

I stay for the oratorio."

'' That is well."

And I wish to be married at St. Mary's."

'* Naturally," answered the Elector, in a
half absent manner, as if he were not addressing
himself to her.

There was again silence.

And you also desire me to perform the
ceremony, I suppose?" he said, without,
however, looking at her.

VOL. II. o

Miss Myles hesitated to give the answer
that was longing to rush from her lips.
Could Mr. Brereton have any objection, that
he manifested no kindly readiness to anticipate
her questions so as to relieve her from
embarrassment ?

*' It is rather an awkward position for meas
you see, Mr. Brereton, to settle this
matter quite by myself. I should not have
undertaken it had you not been so old and
valued a friend, and, of course, I am not a
girl, 'but the Yicar of Sunnyside, of whom
you have often heard me speak, would, I
know, perform this office gladly if you would
kindly lend him your church. Mr. Langridge
proposed him in the first instance, but then
I shall still have to ask you a favour."

Her voice faltered; the attitude of Mr.
Brereton made the having to arrange her own
marriage indeed difficult. Her thoughts at
this juncture suddenly conceived the possibility
that the Rector in his enthusiasm for a
celibate clergy had lost all sympathy for the
institution of marriage, and that perhaps he
would have preferred her own life in the
future not to have been so dedicated. A
slight flush therefore overspread her countenance,

as finding that she was not going to be
helped, she added —

I should have to ask sou to give me
away."

I could not give you away ; no, I could
not give you away," said the Rector, with
abrupt energy ; " that I would not do."

'* Mr. Langridge left all the arrangements
to me ; but I think when I was so ready to
take them upon myself I made a great
mistake. I thought all would have been sp
very easy."

Your tea is very good, Miss Myles ; I
will take another cup," said the Rector.

Mary poured him one out and handed it to
him.

The Rector stirred his tea and looked at it
thoughtfully, as though that was engrossing
his every consideration at that epoch, but
after awhile he put it back on to the table,
and, pushing it away from him, he raised
his head, and, with rather a forced smile,
said — ■

"Do you not think now yourself. Miss
Myles, that it would have a very curious
appearance for me to give you away in my
own church ? "

"Of course it would, Mr. Brereton ; so
indiscreet a suggestion would not have
emanated from me if I had not thought that
you had some objection to perform the
ceremony."

Her voice trembled.

What objection can I possibly have, dear
Missiles:"

The Rector looked full at her.

None that I know of," said Mary, and
tears rose to her eyes.

Any priest would think it an honour.
Then why not I ? "

*' It is myself who will be honoured, as I
have always been, by your friendship, Mr.
Brereton."

Mary here fairly broke down, but she
turned aside and succeeded in checking the
rising sob.

The Rector passed one hand across his
brow.

"Is the room too hot for you, Mr. Bretton
? Shall I open the door ? The fire is
somewhat large."

No, thank you ; we are always used to
large fires here in the north. I have been
working rather hard lately, and have been

sitting up at night a little longer than usual,
so have just got a slight headache. It is
nothing. Your tea is doing it good," and
he drew the teacup nearer to him again.

There is a great deal of sickness about,
is there not, Mr. Brereton ? "

Yes, especially among the old folk,"
said the Eector, as he emptied his cup.
Had I not better call upon Mr. Langridge
and talk it over with him 'f" At what hotel is
he staying ? Or, if he would call upon nee,
would it not be better still ? " said Mr.
Brereton, as he again rose to go.

Herbert Langridge left Chippenham last
night, and will not be able to come down
again until a day or so before — "

Indeed ! then you are to be defrauded of
your courtship after all ? '' cried the Hector,
with a sudden attempt at sprightliness. " I
really did not understand." He paused a
moment as he took up his hat, then, turning
round, he said, '' I will see you again in
reference to this; but when you write to
Mr. Langridge kindly tell him that I expect
that he will make my house his home upon
that occasion — and also your friend Mr.
Ashcroft. It will give me the greatest

satisfaction if Mrs. Ashcroft will also accompany
the Yicar. Yours will be, I presume,
what is termed a quiet wedding, but a lady
will be necessary to preside, be the guests
few or many, for, in a few words, I wish to
convey to you that which I have at heart,
which is, that your wedding be kept at the
Rectory, and my two dear girls be your bridesmaids.
You see I am speaking now very
peremptorily, like an elder brother. It will
relieve you and simplify everything if I take
all this arrangement upon myself, and so I
ask you, in the light of the aforesaid elder
brother, to leave it all to me. You can trust
me, I think, not to do anything at variance
with your own code as regards taste, which,
I believe, is almost identical with my own."

'' My kind, best friend ! " cried Mary, and
she held out both her hands to him.

As they stood there in the fire-glow, who
would not have said that they were a couple
who were designed by Nature for each other ?
The fitness of age, their moral attributes and
intellectual gifts, and the exceptionally fine
personal appearance of them both would have
almost justified the old most-mistaken saying
that marriages are made in heaven.

Mr. Brereton gazed long and fixedly upon
the face of the woman turned to him with
such a beaming look of grateful appreciation,
and whose hands were resting in his own.

An ante-nuptial benediction," he said,
*' rests upon you both for your mutual constancy
and truth — the benediction of the
Church it will be my privilege to bestow.
God bless you, dear Miss Myles." He raised
one of the hands she had resisted to him and
slightly touched it with his lips, '* God bless
you ! "

Mary would not trust herself to speak, but
accompanied him to the door. A cold blast
blew on them both.

Pray go back. Miss Myles, the wind is
chill and piercing," and he shuddered.

As he heard the door close behind him he
drew a long breath. " Thank God it is
over, and I have not betrayed myself. My
path now lies straight before me," and with a
firm step he strode down the dark road
homewards.

Spring days are gone, and yet the grass tve see
Unto a goodly height again hath grown ;

Dear love, just so love's aftermath may he

A richer growth than e'er spring days have known.

S. Waddington.

Although Mrs. Hazelhurst lead felt greatly
relieved after her nephew had called upon
her ; during which interview lie had acquainted
her that his future bride and himself,
after mature deliberation, had arrived at the
decision that it would on all accounts be
more befitting that their marriage should
take place at Chippenham, where Miss Myles
had for so long had so many interests'; yet
she was not without sharing a most lively
curiosity with Helen to know the details of
an event which she still secretly very much
regretted.

Helen had been much disappointed at the
change of plans. She had looked forward
with great pleasure to the prospect of seeing
her beloved friend, for such she always faithfully,
and without any swerving, deemed the
lady who had won her affections whilst she
was superintending her studies. She had in
no way been influenced by her mother's
depreciatory observations in regard to the
change in that lady's personal appearance.
Mrs. Hazelhurst and Helen had both driven
to Dr. Grantham's funeral, and at some
distance had both seen Miss Myles, but as
she was closely veiled it was quite obvious to
Helen that her mother could not have been
able to make very critical or trustworthy
investigations, and that the expressions of
"careworn," "faded," "precise," "middle-aged
woman " which frequently fell from
Mrs. Hazelhurst's lips were more the offspring
of her foregone conclusions than the
results of her own vision. Helen really
knew Mary better than her mother, and had
often suspected that her very severe style of
dress was really assumed as a disguise or
veil for the rare beauty which she was herself
conscious of possessing.

Mrs. Hazelhurst had seen a shade or two
more of sadness in Helen's face after this
alteration of plans ; but Helen had not been
looking well lately. She was silent, pale,
and depressed; the bright smiles and glowing
cheeks, which were the chief characteristics
of her loveliness, were gone. Of
her it might almost have been said that she
was 'faded."

'* No wonder," said Mrs. Hazelhurst to
herself, angrily, " to be thrown over after
all — a girl who has evidently refused all
offers on his account ; and then he comes
back and is as besotted as ever."

If the days of witchcraft had not long
been past and gone, Mrs. Hazelhurst would
quite readily have fallen a victim to a dominant
superstition, and have declared that
sorcery must be at the bottom of such a
delusion ; and who can tell whither such a
belief might not have led her, with the pale
cheeks of her daughter always before her,
and her heart-rooted conviction that her
nephew was being sacrificed ; — for persecutors
have not been necessarily'' more cruel
than other people. They have merely been
possessed of a narrower mental vision, and

have, therefore, not been able to arrive at
any other conclusions than those which were
determined by that limited range, blundering
in their judgments because they took not
fast hold of the raiment of Love as their
guide.

Surely all persecution is but the intensifying
our opinions into actions, and it may
even be possible that the most earnest souls
are therefrom in the more imminent danger
of succumbing to the temptation of employing
force as an auxiliary, when mild persuasion
fails.

Mrs. Hazelhurst, however, could only
wonder at Herbert's delusion without being
able to solve it by any other method than by
the usual belief so very widely spread among
men and women, that there is no accounting
for any absurdity into which a man may not
fall in love matters. Feeling: thus, Mrs.
Hazelhurst had not acceded to the proposition
of the Yicar s wife that Helen should goto
the wedding of her former governess
under the escort of herself and husband.
Helen, indeed, although much wishing it, had
not urged it strongly. She was in all things
a good and obedient daughter, and never

asserted herself, or possibly Mrs. Hazelhurst
would not have withheld her consent. So,
instead of aunt or cousin being present at
the marriage of Herbert with Miss Myles,
they only sent presents and congratulations
through Mrs. Ashcroft. The Yicar had
posted a copy of The Chippenham Gazette to
Mrs. Hazelhurst, which she had read in
silence ; nor had she offered it to Helen, but
laid it on one side in such a manner that her
daughter, supposing that her mother did not
care for her to see it, did not put out her
hand to take it for herself.

How pale the dear girl is looking this
morning," thought the mother ; " I wish
Herbert had not called at all ; she was well
enough before that."

But Mrs. Hazelhurst quite overlooked the
fact that another frequent visitor at her
house for the last two or three years was no
longer able to be there so often, and that
since Reginald Ashcroft had been made the
Eector of Moreton, which was quite a hundred
miles distant from Simnyside, it was no
more possible for him to give to Mrs. Hazel-hurst
and her daughter the benefit of his
ever-cheery society as before.

Mrs. Hazelhurst had remarked that morning
what a loss it was to them all that Reginald
was so far off, adding —

When he was Curate at Glastonbury we
saw so much of him."

Yes," said Helen, coldly, and looked in
an absent way through the window, but as
Mrs. Ashcroft was at that moment announced
she immediately brightened up,
and ran forward almost gaily to welcome her.

Mrs. Ashcroft was not of an enthusiastic
nature, nor much gifted with eloquence, but
she was natural, and devoid of all sentiment
and affectation. The real admiration and.
sincere affection which she had always entertained
for Miss Myles being no longer
restrained in its expression before Mrs Hazel-hurst
(the lovers being now man and wife
and everything irrevocably settled as far as
regarded them), she felt herself at liberty to
say exactly what she thought, and consequently
she launched forth almost volubly into
encomiums on the bride, and on the Rector
of St. Mary's and his girls ; and also gave an
animated and almost vivid description of the
breakfast at the Rectory. Mrs. Ashcroft
seldom left home ; it was, therefore, quite a

new experience to be the lady paramount at
such a house as Mr. Brereton's, and upon
such an occasion.

Helen listened with rapt attention. She
broke in with at last —

'' Oh, dear ! I must never repeat the offensive
word Polly any more. Herbert did not
like it years ago, I remember ; but it is so
difficult to call my once dear Polly, Mrs Langridge."


Very," said Mrs. Hazelhurst, drily.

I suppose there were some speeches,"
said Helen, colouring, it would appear, inconsequence
of her mother's monosyllable.

Only Mr. Ashcroft made anything that
was worthy to be called a speech. Mr.
Brereton's was more like a sermon or a blessing.
It certainly was not a speech. But
you know how very witty and clever Mr.
Ashcroft is," said the admiring wife, "and
what good things he can say when required""

Can you remember any of the good
things?" asked Helen, smiling.

Well, I have cause to remember one,
because the lady who sat next to me was a
little deaf, and did not see the point. You
know how apt Mr. Ashcroft is in his quotations,

and of course you know, also, how
very beautiful he always thought our friend.
He once heard how much she had been
admired down at Girton, and how crazy the
undergraduates were about her ; or, as Mr.
Ashcroft had said, * She made sad havoc
with them all round.' So all this knowledge
of Miss Myles's many conquests was brought
by my husband into his speech very cleverly,
without seeming, you know, dear Mrs. Hazel-hurst,
as if it had been at all premeditated.
I thought it was so well done when he sard,
Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his
ten thousands.' I don't know whether everyone
saw the point. The Rector looked
abstracted, and as far away as if he had been
at the gate of Heaven, and gazed at my husband
in the most lost kind of manner. I
think your nephew understood it, for he
looked steadily with a half-smile at his bride,
but she was immovably composed, as if she,
too, was leaning over ' the golden bar,' as her
own favourite poem says. But the poor
lady near me, the wife of the Treasurer of the
Marigold Guild, who had only heard about
some ' thousands ' of ' slain,' leant forward tome
and asked in a half whisper if I could tell

her where the great battle had been. Was it
not good ?" and Mrs. Ashcroft's beaming face
was still more illumined than before at the
recollections of her husband's opportune wit.

Mrs. Hazel hurst, however, did not smile.
What was all this talk about conquests and
admiration ? In her mind she was " careworn
" and " faded." She had asseverated
these words so often to herself that she
firmly believed them. How weak all these
people were ! As to Mr. Ashcroft, she had
had too often experience of the inaptitude of
his wit, and his similes, and his quotations
to heed them now as being at all worth anything
; and at this juncture, being in a more
severe mood than usual, she highly deprecated
his employment of Biblical quotations,
however metaphorically used, upon such an
occasion as the much-to-be-deplored marriage
of her nephew to her ex-governess, and
therefore looked very grave and was silent.

'' I suppose they will not leave England
without calling ? " she asked, coldly.

No, dear Mrs. Hazelhurst, they will be
here in a few days. It is like Mrs. Langridge
that their first visit will be to the grave
of her husband's mother, to place wreaths

there together, then they will come on here ;
but Mr. Ashcroft and myself shall make a
point of going down to Southampton a few
days before they sail in order to see them off."

You have not said anything about
Herbert himself," said Mrs. Hazelhurst.
Did he look happier ? It grieved me to see
him, poor fellow''

'' He does not need anyone's pity," replied
Mrs. Ashcroft, drawing herself up ;
my husband will tell you all about it, for
he says the grandest thing he ever saw was
the way the two men, Mr. Langridge, and
Mr. Brereton the Eector, both fine-looking
men, stood with their hands clasped in each
other's ; each of them, as far as I can understand,
thanking and blessing the other, with
tears in their eyes ; the one for having been
her protector in the past, the other in that he
had been chosen by Providence as her guardian
in the future, ' the great gift of God,'
I think those were the words, or something:
like them, but Mr. Ashcroft will tell you."

Oh, it's of no consequence," said sirs.
Hazelhurst, in a low voice.

A week later, having knelt together at the
VOL. n. p

mother s grave, the husband and wife drove
over to Sunnyside. Leaving the carriage to
wait at the entrance of the woody glades
skirting the grounds, Herbert lifted his wife
over the ha-ha fence, which he had himself
about ten years before sprung over, gaily
whistling.

Come, Mary, we must go to the shrine
of my hamadryad. Albeit 'tis now a deserted
shrine, and the poor lone tree is no longer
her home or her prison. I verily believe,"
he said, half smiling, half serious, *' that you
were a hamadryad in some former state of
existence. I ain quite sure of it ; perhaps
after all I released you. Who but a hama-dryad
or some other sylvan goddess ever
possessed two such — "

Hush ! " was the laughing answer, and
a gloved hand was laid upon his lips.

'* My fair hamadryad," he cried, when free
speech was restored, '* had always a little of
the prude in her."

She is certainly a very elegant woman.
I have no hesitation in saying that," was
Mrs. Hazelhurst's remark to Helen after her
nephew and his wife had left ; kind Mrs.

Hazelhurst felt her heart relieved from a
burden which had long oppressed it. She
had sometimes argued with herself that
perhaps she was unjust in her estimate of
Miss Myles. She was therefore more content
in her innermost soul after this little
tribute of appreciation. She even took
pleasure in conversing with her daughter
upon the exquisite taste her niece (for she
actually brought herself to speak openly of
such a relationship) had in dress, but traditional
cause of her cheerfulness was due
to her lately awakened perception, so welcome
to her maternal eyes, that Helen was
certainly in no wise jealous of the preference
given by her cousin to the lady who was
now his wife.

Why was it, then, that Helen soon retired
to her own room, and throwing herself on a
couch, buried her face in the cushions and
wept bitterly ? She, who had so often been
eloquent on the debated subject of Miss
Myles's beauty with her mother, had been
silent on this occasion, whilst her mother
was recapitulating the claims of her newly-found
niece to the admiration of everybody.
This contrariety has been noticed before.

Yes, she is beautiful, strangely beautiful,"
said Helen, after the tears had fallen long
and silently. " She is like those women one
reads of sometimes who through a long life,
have always subjugated men ; and she is
pure, therefore has she the greater power.
What hope that the hold once obtained by
her over any man's affections could ever be
relaxed ! It is like an old world story. Ten
years 1 A lifetime, almost, to some, and no
change — a love that will go on for ever !
Who would not exult at being loved with a
love so broad and deep ? But such a love is
not for me ! And my mother could think
that I have thought upon Herbert all these
years ; that he won my affections when I
was but a child, and has no perception of
the truth ! How much better, so that I am
able to mask the reality to her, lest in her
affectionate anxiety she might betray me.
The marigold which I sent to my cousin so
long ago, the marigold out of her garden
which he had forgotten in his grief at martin
jr, he has them still he told me but an
hour since. A dead flower more prized by
one man than a whole heart's love is cared
for by another ! For fourteen years ! for

fourteen years ! " she sighed, after a pause,
*' and she loved him well, how well is
perhaps alone known to me, until Herbert
came, but he— but he is faithful even now,
and loves her still. Who can wonder at it ?
Who would pause to choose between her and
me — although I am ten years younger,
and am an heiress, as they call me, forsooth,
as well ! " A scornful curl of the lip showed
at what rate the good girl valued the wealth
with which she was accredited.

Mrs. Hazelhurst, full of generous impulses,
and anxious to unbosom herself by openly
expressing them, drove out with Helen the
day following upon this, to make sundry
calls, which she said had been too long unrepaid,
but really to talk over the singular
and unparalleled constancy of her nephew.

She had been reticent enough heretofore,
and " the romantic tale " upon which she now
dilated had never been heard of from her,
whilst there was any chance of its being
relegated to the region of myths.

Now, however, that her nephew's wife was
an acknowledged member of her family, it
behoved her, as she thought, to make the

fact as widely known as possible. Wherever
they went that afternoon Helen was
doomed to hear the same praises and the
same descriptions ; and the honest girl
wondered both at her mother and at herself.
She marvelled at Mrs. Hazelhurst's sudden
conversion and change of language, for
whereas for many weeks — ever since Herbert
Lanofrido^e had first called and asserted that
his determination and his feelings regarding
the former object of his affections were quite
unchanged — Helen had heard with an undescribable
sense of weariness the unmeasured
scorn of her mother towards her
nephew and the object of his choice ; and
she was also now surprised at herself,
because she was now almost equally as
weary at hearing their praises. A feeling
of shame oppressed her as she became
conscious of a certain bitterness of heart —
a void — whilst so many encomiums were
showered upon another.

We will just call in for a few minutes at
the Ashcrofts, love. They will be glad to
hear about Herbert and his wife."

You forget, dearest mother, that it was

their intention to call at the Vicarage after
leaving here ? "

Ah, yes, but it had quite slipped my
memory ; nevertheless, we will drive round
there. We will not stay. We may hear
something about Reginald. You know that
he is also a great favourite of mine ; but how
pale you look, child ! Perhaps it has already
been too much for you ; if so, we will return
immediately."

Oh, no, mother ! I always like to go^to
the Vicarage."

But the weary look came again over her
face at hearing the same recital.

"Am I getting envious?" she asked,
between her closed teeth.

Only think of ten years' constancy on a
man's side ! " reiterated Mrs. Hazelhurst ; " it
is, I should think, quite unparalleled, as I am
often saying to myself."

'• It is not so much as fourteen years," said
Helen, gloomily.

'have you ever heard of anyone whose
constancy has lasted fourteen years, Helen ? "
asked Mrs. Ashcroft.

Yes," answered Helen, laconically.

*why, who is that, love?" said Mrs.
Hazelhurst, with eyebrows raised and ia
sheer amazement, lifting her eye-glass as she
turned to her daughter.

But Helen's eyes were obstinately cast
down and her lips compressed, and that washer
only answer.

Helen is not well ; she is out of health,
dear Mrs. Hazelhurst," whispered Mrs. Ashcroft
at parting. " Let her go down to
Southampton with us the day after tomorrow."


And Mrs. Hazelhurst, after a long and
searching look at her daughter, nodded a
smiling assent.

And ther saide ones a clerk. What is better than sold ?
Jasper. And what is better than Jasper ? Wisdom. And what
is better than wisdom ? A good woman. And what is better
than a good woman ? Nothing.

Chaucer.

Man is a talking animal ; and what is better
than good talk ? — who would not go far to
find it ? In this respect it may be assumed
that men have a greater advantage than
women, for from their college to their club
days the facilities for conversation are frequent.
Facilities for conversation ; but how
rare amidst all this wealth of opportunity is
really good talk met with ! To have good talk
there must be good talkers. And are all
these cantered hurling their light shafts at
random — these reproduces of the railleries of
the press — talkers at all ? This love of raillery

which is so rampant amongst young men
especially, strangles conversation. The very
pretence at excess of life visible in all this
punning and counterfeiting of sprightliness,
this retailing of grotesque stories, imposes
silence upon him who has anything to say.
Not but that a good humoured raillery, with
some spice of wit accompanying, is a pleasant
adjunct in discourse when the combatants
are equally matched, but even then it is
better only to be called forth occasionally as
an auxiliary, and, like auxiliaries, generally
requires to be under the stern control of the
regular forces. For what greater bore is
there in the large family of boredom than
the man who gives himself up to habitual
raillery ?

Now Sir Henry Mason was one who had
always through life indulged in it, but as his
flights were generally as destitute of wit as
they were harmless, he was tolerated universally,
for mankind in the aggregate bears its
afflictions with tolerable equanimity, and the
usual way in which " one of Mason's " was
received was all included in the commentary
he's a good fellow." Being thoroughly
good-natured and impervious to snubbing,

he persevered in giving forfcli his sallies year
after year, and his old associates whom he
habitually met at his club heard the oft-repeated
jokes in silence, no longer even
troubling themselves to notice them except
by an occasional furtive smile exchanged,
with sometimes an imperceptible shrug.

Their forbearance was partly due to a
feeling that it was a necessity in the man
to have this kind of safety-valve, although
he had arrived at an age when raillery is less
tolerated than it is with younger men ; for it
was generally widely known that only at his
club was such delectation possible.

Sir Henry Mason was a married man, and
Lady Mason condemned the least approaches
to anything that savoured of levity. A
ponderous woman was Lady Mason, both
in mind and body, slow in speech, and slow
in gait, with a mortal antipathy to the least
approach to a joke. How the glib retailer
of stale puns, and a woman who characterized
laughter generally as the " crackling of
thorns " drifted into the married state was
a never-to-be-explained marvel. Lady Mason
rejoiced in wearing continually the heavy
chains of a dull decorum which never relaxed.

It was always to her an inward source of
extreme satisfaction, when she remembered
how effectually she had at an early stage of
their married life corrected those weaknesses
of her husband, who never now committed
himself to foolish jesting. She reflected with
pride upon the judgment which she had used
in weeding out from their visiting list all those
friends of his bachelorhood who where given
to sing comic songs, or repeat sayings from
the last Punch.

The return to England of that old friend
who had years ago been the pole of attraction
for his rallying propensities, seemed to
awaken from their slumbering depths all the
old frivolities which Lady Mason had once
told him were unbefitting the demeanour of
a Christian gentleman. Once he asked Sir
Robert Carbury to dinner, once, and once
only.

The severe look of astonished reprobation
and scarcely suppressed indignation with
which Lady Mason fixed Sir Robert at his
first " By Jove ! " was only surpassed by the
majestic silent arraignment of her husband
by leaning back in her chair and crossing her
hands in grand resignation, as he, fortified by

Sir Robert's presence, seized the opportunity,
and gave vent to a very small witticism.
Lady Mason that same night in the privacy
of the nuptial chamber, and in a voice as
if she were reading a homily, quoted the
objurgation of Henry the Fifth to Falstaff as
applicable to their late guest —

I know thee not, old man : Fall to thy prayers ;
How ill white hairs become a fool and jester ! "

Quite innocent of the manner in which he
had been thus apostrophized. Sir Robert, the
very next time that he met his friend at the
club, came down heavily upon the table with
the offending fist, accompanied by the sonorous
" By Jove ! " as a preface to his very
decided summary upon Lady Mason. '' I
can't stand your wife. Mason ; she's more formidable
than a fifty-pounder."

So the friends met at the Anglo-Indian
Club and were unembarrassed and happy.
Sir Robert let his old friend have a free field
for his raillery, and the latter availed himself
of his friend's frankness, as it afforded
scope for his wit and inwardly chuckled over
and over again when in the grave solemnity
of his home, by recalling his clever and
sparkling hits at divers times on the subject

of cherries and cherry pies, all of which
Sir Robert took with never failing good
humour.

Two or three days after Christmas the
friends were again in the coffee-room, and
on account of that festive time which
generally draws men more to home-life
than any other season of the year it was almost
empty. They had each been reading their
favourite papers with flying commentaries
on the leaders, when Sir Henry drew one
from his pocket, a county newspaper, which
had evidently come that morning by post,
and had not been as yet looked at.

'' The CMppenham Gazette'' he said, as he
stripped off the wrapper. " That's where
your little girl of the cherry pie went to, you
know. There's a fellow whom I know down
there who sends me a paper now and then ;
but there's not much in it besides local news."

His friend was deep in a speech of one of
the members upon the situation in the East,
and did not hear or heed this remark.

*' I say, Hanbury ! " he shouted, when his
eyes had for a few moments glided carelessly
over its contents, " Hanbury ! "

Whatever is the matter, man ? " said the
Colonel, looking up from his own paper ;
"anything amiss with Lady Mason this
morning, eh ?"

Pshaw ! look here ! Read it for yourself.
First column, at the top there," and
he pushed The Ghijpj^enham Gazette across the
table.

No, no, not I ; I don't want to lose my
place here. Whatever you've found that you
want me to hear, read it yourself, there's a
good fellow ! I suppose 'tis not very long.
I'll listen for five minutes good."

'' You'll listen fast enough when I begin,
I've no doubt ; but don't come in this time
with your ' By Jove,' or I shall just slip the
paper into my pocket again. Now for it :
Picturesque Wedding at Chippenham. — All
Chippenham and its adjoining were in the
highest state of excitement yesterday from
early morn till night on account of the
marriage of Miss Myles, the Lady Principal
of the Chippenham Collegiate School.

No sooner was it generally known that
this lady, who has been among us for several
years, and who has been so universally
esteemed by all classes for her goodness

and sweetness of character, as well as admired
for her beauty and her many and varied
attainments, was to be married this morning
at the Church of St. Mary's, than a large
concourse of people of both sexes and of all
ages thronged to the vicinity of the church.

'' The bridegroom's status as holding a
high position in India had somehow oozed
out, as well as the long period of his and
Miss Myles's engagement, and these topics
were discussed by the patient groups awaiting
the arrival of the bride. The dress of
the bride was a departure from that usually
adopted, and, possibly because she is not in
her first youth, the veil and wreath was
replaced by the form of bonnet called the
Princess,' and her entire costume upon so
cold and wintry a day was more pleasing to
the eye than any glistening white satin or
veil, suggestive of chilliness, would have been.
To be brief, her gown was of a rich dark blue
velvet, trimmed wich ermine, with a long
train of the same, also lined and bordered
with ermine, and the bonnet was of the same
material, with a small aigrette of diamonds
in front. She also wore around her throat a
rare necklet of diamonds, in antique setting,

which relieved the colour of the gown. A
rich, short Chantilly veil completed her
costume, the whole of which was singularly
in accordance with her style of beauty. Her
only two bridesmaids, the two daughters of
Mr. Brereton, the Rector, who officiated,
were also warmly clothed in cream-coloured
plush, turned up with blue, with hats to
correspond.

'' Miss Myles had long been the patroness,
as she was also the foundress, of a guild for
girls and young women, well known in
Chippenham as the ' Marigold Guild,' the
marigold being a favourite flower with this
lady. These girls, to the number of almost
two hundred, in their uniforms of blue serge,
with the marigold device worked with silk in
its own colour on cuffs and collar, were
ranged in a triple row on each side of the
churchyard path leading to the porch, and
upon the bride's alighting at the outer gate
received her with an adaptation of Keble's
marriage hymn, arranged expressly for the
occasion. The effect of their well-trained
voices, and the severe simplicity of the composition,
appealed strongly to the assembled
crowd, and many tears were shed by the

VOL. II. Q

sympathetic feminine portion of the bystanders,
who had very good reasons; realizing
how great would be their loss when the
graceful *Lady of the Marigold,' as she was
familiarly called by them, was abstracted from
their midst.

We must not forget to note that many of
these girls carried baskets of yellow flowers,
and as the garden marigold were not procurable,
the yellow marguerites, grown under
glass, did duty for the bride's favourite
flower, and these they cast before the happy
couple as they left the church.

'' Mr. and Mrs. Langridge will shortly
leave for India, and after a few excursions to
various friends are expected to go to Southampton,
whence they sail."

The reader paused, laid the paper down,
and looked at the Colonel with a smile, who
had, indeed, listened in silence, and without
interrupting this perusal.

I say, Hanbury, this Mr. Langridge had
some of the cherry pie, I expect, eh ? "

Be quiet. Mason, and just hand me over
the paper ; I want to look at it myself."

'' Oh, it's all there ! Don't be suspicious,
Hanbury; I'm not playing any joke upon you

now, and you've lost your chance, even at the
eleventh hour."

** Give it over, I sap, and don't be a fool,
Mason ! "

There, there, my good fellow," cried his
friend, laughing, as he pushed TheGhv^penham
Gazette across the table ; " the lawyer has won
by more than a neck this time''

Colonel Hanbury took up the paper gravely,
and half turning his back to his friend, so as
to face the fire, he very slowly and carefully,
as it seemed, went over the whole details,
often stopping to consider, and then, with a
kind of nod of affirmation, continuing his
reading. When he came to the close he
folded it up with much precision, and instead
of returning it to his friend proceeded to put
it into his own pocket.

"So you are intending to appropriate it,
are you. Colonel? Have you not fully mastered
the contents ? The cherry pie drama is concluded,
I conceive, at last."

*' Confound the cherry pie ! " said Colonel
Hanbury, gruffly.

Amen, say I, if it were leathery and indigestible."


Look here, Mason, be sensible, if you

can, in the absence of your commanding
officer. But, joking apart, this must be a
wonderful woman. It wouldn't have been
much of a mistake, you see, on my part.
She must be well conserved ; they speak of
her beauty as something remarkable."

'Tis no use bemoaning spilt milk, my
friend ; the astute lawyer has won."

An ill-conditioned fellow ! " grunted out
Sir Robert; ''I should think he'd be as sour
as verjuice to live with''

Why, what the deuce can you know about
him ? "

"What can I know ? Why, only just this
much : that I did not find him a very lively or
companionable fellow-traveller. Why, you've
seen him. Mason ; don't you remember the
fellow who bowed to me that morning — the
first morning we met, you know — in this
very room ? I told you then he came over
with me. By Jove ! "

"A handsome, striking-looking man, if I
remember aright," said Sir Henry, maliciously,
" and in the prime of life."

Oh, I've nothing to say against his looks,
nor him in the abstract, except that he seems
to have a disagreeable temper of his own.

He's thought a great deal of over there, an
indefatigable servant, and all that kind of
thing — a rising man — perhaps I ought to say
a risen man, because he's got to the top at
railway speed, so to speak, but I found him
as a fellow-passenger silent and unsociable.'

"He was in love, you see, Colonel."

Nonsense ; a man can't be in love for ten
years straight off."

Whew ! I fancied a certain elderly Colonel
had been wearing the willow for double that
time."

I look like it, don't I ? " replied the Colonel,
jumping up, and, drawing back his head, he
gave his grey moustache a twirl ; " but I'll
keep this paper, if you don't mind. It's
rather amusing to me to see how this has all
come round. I never thought I should hear
anything of that woman again, and here it's
just like the last act of a play."

As I just said, ' a cherry pie drama,' Hanbury."


What do you say, Mason, to running
down to Southampton with me for a few days ?
I've just a little curiosity to see what kind of
woman the curly-haired girl has turned into."

Oh, I could not go, my dear Colonel"

Could not get permission, I suppose,
from your commanding officer, eh ? Well,
thank God I'm not in that case. I own no
superior officer, I'm glad to say," and slapping
his friend on the shoulder he laughed
heartily, and bade him good-morning.

Considered week, how that the harde soon
Under our foot, on which we tread and goon.
It casteth it, as it lith by the were.
The brode river some tyme wexeth di'eye.
The grete tonnes see we wane and wends,
Than may 1 see that all thing hath an ende.

Chaucer.

When you have finished your letter, Mary,
we will go forth into the sunshine. After
the late dull skies it is really life-giving to
look out on such a morning as this. To
whom are you writing so lengthy an epistle ? "

To Margaret Brereton. I promised her
father that I would be a frequent correspondent
with her. He is thinking of removing
her from school and superintending her
studies himself."

I see your counsel in that — it will be a
good thing for them both," answered Herbert,

reflectively, as he gazed from the window
of their hotel on to the sparkling ripples of
Southampton Water. '' Both father and
daughter are — "

He stopped abruptly, leaving his sentence
unfinished, and, going up to the writing table,
laid a gentle hand on his wife's shoulder.

When do you think the Ashcrofts will be
down, Mary ? "

'perhaps to-day, for we have now only
three days before us, Herbert."

'' I should have liked to see Reginald before
leaving. He was an old chum of mine in
childhood, when I stayed at Sunny side with
my aunt, but I suppose he had reasons of
his own for not coming to our wedding."

His wife made no remark upon this observation,
but said, parenthetically —

I think that we left nothing undone, the
omission of which would have caused us after
regret. I am so glad that we went together
and laid flowers on dear Dr. Grantham's
grave. That was your thought," and Mary
looked into his face with a grateful smile.

"Yes, I am very glad. But we have
missed Reginald, and besides being my playfellow
he was also your pupil."

Mary looked back again upon the letter
she was folding.

The '' astute lawyer," sitting down by her
side, took up the hand next to him, and,
kissing it, said, softly —

Was that poor fellow in for it too ? Was
it he who called you ' his Amy ? ' "

Her eyes were raised immediately, and
steadily confronted the searching bat not unloving
glance of the husband.

My pupil call me ' his Amy ! ' " she said.
I have never been called ' Amy ' except by
one — it was merely a pet-name."

'' So, I suppose, the synonym of ' my
glorious girl.' Now, tell me, who was that
privileged one who dared to write thus to
my hamadryad ? — a boy's flight, evidently."

Herbert, as he said these words, touched
the hand which he firmly held with his lips.
His wife, whose eyelids had never drooped
before his gaze, answered quietly and with a
half-amused smile —

Those words, dear Herbert, seem to have
burnt themselves into your brain as deeply
as they are imbedded in my own heart. They
are very sweet words to me. You quoted
them once before, quite unconscious of what

you were saying. They are from a letter of
my mother's which I always keep in ray
Rossetti, a gift from her accompanying it."

<« Why, Mary, I am a convicted villain !
Can you forgive me ? "

I am your Amy. You have made those
loved words your own," she cried.

Mrs. Langridge was just drawing on her
gloves when she observed, carelessly —

This morning appears to exercise a potent
charm over that military-looking man on the
esplanade below. He has been on duty therefor
at least two hours — honos before I began
my letter. I think I observed him before
we began our breakfast. He, too, must be
revelling in this unaccustomed sunshine."

Mr. Langridge took up his glass. After a
long survey he said, as he laid it down —

*' He has the contour and look of one of
my fellow-passengers in the Guatemala. I am
very much surprised to see him here. He
cannot, however, be intending to return to
India, as he was out there twenty years atone
stretch, and is now on the retired list.
I cannot think of his name just now, but if
it be he, he is a colonel's baronet, a K.C.B.,

decidedly soldierly in appearance, but very
noisy. Are you ready, darling ? "

Our friend Sir Robert Hanbury had, in
truth, with military precision, been on duty
since nine o'clock. He had arrived at Southampton
the night before, and having learnt
from the list of visitors in the paper at which
hotel Mr. and Mrs. Langridge were staying
he had taken up his post of reconnoitring at
that very early hour.

She will not recognize me," he had said,
and as for her husband, he will be too much
engaged."

He saw them at once, therefore, as they
descended the steps of the hotel to cross over
to the esplanade. He gave one rapid glance
at the lady with as keen and criticizing a
look as if he had been at an inspection, and
the result, to judge from a sharp little nod as
lie walked on, was entirely satisfactory.

No shawls and tagrags of wraps hanging
about. Just what it ought to be. Women
do make themselves such guys. There's
not one in a thousand could pass muster
were I their inspector. She's all right
so far," he soliloquized, and the Colonel
strode quickly in the same direction, but

walking well ahead of the couple, with
the double view of keeping up his circulation,
and with giving himself, by reaching
the end of the esplanade quickly, an opportunity
of meeting them face to face on his
return march without there being anything
conspicuous in his proceedings.

He was in consequence some thirty or
forty yards in advance of Mr. and Mrs.
Langridge by the time they were following
on his footsteps ; and as at this hour the
esplanade was filling with strollers eager to
get their constitutional before the noontide
sun began to decline — Mary and her husband
being in close converse, they did not
observe that the subject of the few minutes'
conversation as recorded above was near
them, until, the end of the promenade being
reached, he had turned round and was resuming
less hurriedly his march back.

Yes, it is the same," said Herbert, suddenly,
" my fellow-passenger in the Guatemala
I mean, and his name has just come to me —
Colonel Hanbury ! — Sir Robert Hanbury !
How oddly names that are forgotten come
back when you are least searching for them !
Yes, to be sure — Sir Robert Hanbury ! "

Colonel Banbury ! " cried his wife.

Yes, dear. Do you know anything of
him ? "

An old friend of my father's," and Mrs.
Langridge pressed her husband's arm.

The Colonel, as he came up to them,
directed his looks more to the lady than to
his fellow-traveller, upon whose arm she
hung, and it almost seemed as if he were
about to pass without recognition had not
Herbert's raised hat compelled him to a
hasty acknowledgment. Mary again pressed
her husband's arm.

If you do not mind, Herbert, I should
like to speak to Colonel Hanbury. He knew
my father and mother so well."

Before these words had hardly passed her
lips Herbert had turned, and, again raising
his hat, laid a hand upon Colonel Hanbury's
arm.

'' Pardon me, Sir Eobert, but my wife
would like to be introduced to you ; but introduction
seems almost superfluous, as she
claims you for an old acquaintance."

An angry look at first gleamed from under
his shaggy eyebrows ; but it was transient,
like all the Colonel's outbursts of fierceness.

Mrs. Langridge does me too much
honour," he said, courteously, if somewhat
coldly. " It is nevertheless true that I had
the pleasure of knowing her father — a gallant
officer — and her mother, and also Miss Myles,
but it is twenty years ago — twenty years
ago ! "

One must hardly speak of twenty years
of remembrance where a lady is concerned,"
said Herbert, smiling; and seeing that Sir
Eobert stood, nor made any attempt to advance
to Mrs. Langridge, he added, '' but
anyhow you see that you are not forgotten.
Colonel Hanbury, even with such a formidable
reminder intervening."

Not forgotten ! " ejaculated the Colonel,
sternly. " Not forgotten ! "

'how could my father's comrade and my
mother's good friend be forgotten by their
daughter. Colonel Hanbury ? " said a gentle
voice, and Mary, who had heard the raised
accents of those two words, came to his side
and held out her hand.

The Colonel took the proffered hand and
held it for some moments, while he seemed to
be gravely perusing her face, too intently, indeed,
for even Mary's composure and self-control,

for it called an unwelcome blush to her
face which gave it an added beauty, and a
touch of girlhood.

Your husband," he at last said, '' very
properly just now called me to task for my
being so strict an observer of dates. I am a
martinet on that point ; but looking at you,
Mrs. Langridge, I should forget it. Ah !
when last we met you were a little girl in
frocks and were s^atherino^ cherries. Am I
not right ? "

'' Quite right, Colonel Hanbury," and a
deeper glow overspread her brow; "but I
was not exactly a little girl in frocks."

No, no — no, no — it's not fair," said the
Colonel, and a kindly smile illumined his
rugged face as he began to shake the little
hand he held with great fervour and energy ;
*' it's not fair." But the homely and cherished
recollection was too much for him. *' I never
had any of that cherry pie after all,^' he added,
and with a short, good-natured laugh and
another shake he released the hand.

'will you come to our hotel this evening
and dine with us, Colonel Hanbury, just for
the sake of old times ? Perhaps we shall be
able to give you cherry pie."

Made from bottled cherries ! oli ! The
cherry pie I lost was made from cherries fresh
off the tree, but not fresher nor brighter than
the maiden who gathered them," and again
he laughed. " But it's not fair. Forgive an
old soldier, Mrs. Langridge, and allow me to
congratulate you, and you also, Mr. Langridge;
you are a very fortunate man, sir, a
very fortunate man."

But will you promise to give us the pleasure
of your society to dinner. Sir Eobert ? "
asked Herbert, as he warmly shook the
Colonel's hand after this genial outburst.

Colonel Hanbury turned to Mrs. Langridge,
who had not as yet echoed her husband's
invitation.

Yes, do come. Colonel Hanbury ; we
shall both be so glad."

Our talk then, Mrs. Langridge, shall be
only of the home to which you are going. I
love India only second to England, and shall
be happy to add my experiences to those of
your husband if you need any commendations
of the life obtainable there by sober, earnest
folk, which may reconcile you to leaving
England."

Revelations upon revelations ! " cried
Herbert, gaily, as they resumed their walk.
Why, the Yicar seems to have been right
after all. Mary, I've not seen you blush so
vividly since the day you kissed me under the
chestnuts ! I have cause to be thankful to
my dying day that the invincible soldier did
not stop to eat your cherry pie."

'' Do you think that it would have made
any difference?" she answered, laughing.
But, Herbert, see who are coming yonder !
our dear friends, the Ashcrofts, and oh !
joy of joys ! my Helen is with them ! "

My dear girl does not look herself," said
Mary, as, having drawn her old pupil into her
own room, she was herself helping to undo
her wraps. Oh, my own Helen ! this is, indeed,
an unexpected joy ! But why so pale,
dear? Come, let us sit down and have five
minutes' quiet chat. Mrs. Ashcroft will not
be ready yet, and she knows the way to the
drawing-room."

She led her to a settee by the fire, and, as
they sat down, Mrs. Langridge again embraced
and kissed her.

VOL. II. R .

Helen'* she said, softly, as her arm
encircled her waist, " there is one thing at
my heart that I have longed to say to you,
and I am thankful that you have given me
this opportunity."

To do what ? " said her former pupil,
finding that her friend, who had paused, was
regarding her with wistful looks. " What
do you wish to say to me ? "

'* I have reason to believe, from some
observations dropped by Mrs. Ashcroft,
darling, that Reginald Ashcroft loves you !
Oh ! Helen, think what happiness it would
be to me if my two dear pupils could be
united ! I do not believe, dearest, that you
are indifferent to him."

A faint colour tinted her cheek.

"I have known Reginald all my life, but I
see no reason therefrom why you should wish
to unite us, Mrs. Langridge, merely because
we were both your pupils."

The cold, forced tone of this reply caused
Mrs. Langridge to draw Miss Hazelhurst
closer to her. She took one of her hands in
hers.

I love you both as if you were my brother
and ray sister. That love is a stronger one

than can be given to a pupil, however dear.
I know of no better gift which as an elder
sister I could bestow, if it were mine to give,
than to give you to each other."

Spoken right queenly, alike your very
old self ! Bat, Mrs. Langridge, Mr. Reginald
Ashcroft has not himself asked for the hand
that you are so ready to bestow."

Not ' Mrs. Langridge' to you, Helen, but
simply Mary, your cousin Mary, who abjures
all queenly rights, and who only wishes to
make two loved ones happy."

Helen looked up hastily.

You have a right, cousin Mary, to speak
of two loved ones. I never doubted your
love for me, nor at one time at least your — '*

"What''

Love for Eeginald Ashcroft. See now "
and Helen's eyes flashed — '' I am not —
never was, and never shall be queen of
hearts, as you are. But if I ever have one
heart to rule over it must be mine, and mine
only."

My dearest Helen," said her cousin, " I
am much pained. You are in a great
error."

No, no ; I am in no error, and I love

you just the same. But I do know that
Reginald Ashcroft loved you for years, and
that before Herbert came on the scene you
must have loved him ! "

Must have loved him ? Helen ! "
I have seen you kiss his letters over andover
again. 'Tis rather hard that you should
carry off both my lovers. Confess, now, that
it is, cousin," with an attempt to smile.
But 'tis of no consequence. I came to see
you once more, darling old Polly ; let us not
waste our time about such useless talk," and
she laid her head on Mrs. Langridge's
shoulder.

"As you in some inscrutable way discovered
Reginald's youthful attachment, I
shall not deny its truth. Neither you nor
any other person would ever have known it
from me. It was not returned by myself,
however, nor did I ever receive any love
letter from my pupil. If you ever by
accident saw me fondly kiss any letters,
they were those of my dead mother. Helen,
in what a labyrinth your thoughts have been
wandering ! Would you really out of pique
let a man who truly loves you, and to whom
you are not indifferent, as I see more clearly

every moment, be made unhappy? This is
not like my generous, faithful Helen."

'* Eeginald has never told me that he cared
for me."

*' No, Helen ; you are wealthy. Eeginald
would rather be assured that you really did
care for him before he would seek the hand
of one almost reputed to be an heiress. I
verily believe from his character that if you
were absolutely penniless rather than dowered
as you are, he would not have gone to his
Eectory without declaring himself."

«« Forgive my proud petulance, dear cousin.
Could I really believe that Reginald loved
me well enough to make me his wife now, I
could be happy. Had you ever loved him it
would have been quite different. Of course,
he could not help loving you — who could ? "
She put her arms round Mrs. Langridge's
neck. '' Everybody knows that you were
the making of him. I understand it all
now, I understand it all now ; it was his
love for you ! "

Love is a great teacher," answered
Mary, solemnly; "but never speak of that
again, dearest Helen. Both Herbert and
myself want so much to see him before we

leave England. May I write to him to come
and take a farewell of us for the sake of the
old times ?"

But you will not say that I am here ? "

Yes, but I shall, or we should not get
him, I fear. Have I permission ? But no, I
will not ask permission, I take the responsibility
on myself. But what about your
mother," Helen ? "

I think my mother will raise no objection
; she is very fond of Reginald, but I
almost wish I had not come."

I shall not compromise you, darling,
never fear ; wait a moment, it is soon done.
I will not write to your Eeginald anything
you may not like to read." And drawing
some writing materials near her, Mrs. Langridge
hastily wrote —

*' Dear Reginald,

Herbert says that he longs to see
you before we leave England. I need not
say that my own feelings also induce me
to write to ask you to do us that favour.
Your mother and father have kindly come,
and have brought with them another dear
old pupil of mine. Let me have the great
delight to see both my much-loved pupils

here together. The happiness of both is
very dear to me."

There, Helen, there is nothing very
improper in that, is there ? "

'' I had made up my mind that I would
never marry him before I came down here,"
said Helen, with somewhat of a frown.

And the roses of your cheeks had paled
in consequence," answered Mrs. Langridge,
and she sealed the letter and placed it with
others destined for the post.

"You will say nothing, I hope, to Sirs.
Ashcroft?" said Helen.

'' JS'o, nor to my own dear husband ; my
first deception," said Mary, laughing.

The dinner party that evening was bright
and the conversation animated. Almost all
were for the most part listeners, only throwing
in enough of the talking element in the
form of questions to prevent any stagnation.
The Colonel seemed the happiest of the party,
and a few half-hours daily with women so
refined and intellectual would, even at that
late hour of his life, have toned him down
considerably. As it was, his voice was much
more subdued than usual, and only once were

Lis own feelings shocked by the echoes of his
sonorous " By Jove ! " His own feelings were
more shocked apparently than those of anyone
else at the table, for smiles rather than
frowns were the most perceptible expressions
on every face except that of the offender, who
turned fiery red, and was very nearly perpetrating
a dozen other oaths in his stammering
attempts to cover that one into which he
had been betrayed. It was at rather a late
hour when Colonel Hanbury rose to go.

We shall see you tomorrow, I hope ?
You will join us again, Sir Robert ? " asked
Herbert, warmly.

No, Mr. Langridge, tomorrow I go back
to London. I go by an early train, but I
shall carry with me a most enjoyable remembrance
— it will last me. I have had a delights



ful evening. I came down, Mrs. Langridge,"
cried the honest old soldier, " expressly to try
and get a look at you. I am not ashamed of
it. No, by — Forgive me — no, I am not
ashamed of it. I did not expect to speak to
you, much less spend an evening with you. I
am very much gratified. Good-bye ; God bless
you — God bless you both. Your father was
a gallant officer, and your mother — well,

well, I knew them both. Good-bye, my dear,
and again, God bless you."

The old soldier's eyes were glistening.
Could they be really tears ?

We shall come back in five years. Colonel,"
said Herbert Langridge ; " we hope to meet
all old friends again."

'' Only five years ! " echoed Mary, tremulously.


Tears are catching, for there was no mistake
that they were shining in those grey eyes of
hers, and even Helen looked, as if in another
moment her lashes would hold similar pendants.


I am sixty-five," said Colonel Hanbury,
almost fiercely ; " a man cannot count on
five years at that age, though it may be.
Good-bye ; don't come to the door, I'd
rather not," he said, resolutely, and he
went.

'' I like that old soldier," said Herbert,
breaking the general silence which had fallen
upon them all; ''I did him an injustice."

The young Rector of Moreton had just
entered his library, where his breakfast was
laid. It was a library by name rather than

reality, for a few books hardly constitute a
right to any room to have so venerable a
name affixed to it, but this room was intended
for a library, and his predecessor
really possessed sufficient books to warrant
the assumption of the name ; but Reginald
Ashcroft was no book collector, and, notwithstanding
his success, and the almost
unexampled position which he had (certainly
through interest in a great measure) attained,
of a living at thirty-two, he could not by any
possibility develop into a reader. His tastes
were those of an ordinary country gentleman,
upon which was grafted the clergyman. Such
habits were more suitable to the society in
which he found himself ; to whom a studious
man would have been abhorrent, and as
every one of his tastes were moderate in
degree, and held so lightly that it could beat
any time laid down without a wrench, he
was in all respects a man who would always
be at peace with his flock, and this churchwardens
in particular; as no innovations
would unadvisedly creep in ; and although
from his love of neatness and decorum
generally some improvements might be expected,
yet not any susceptibilities on clerical

matters would be ruffled, as every change
would be so very gradual as hardly to be
perceived until it was thoroughly accepted.
A moderate man in all things, but a persistent
one, Avhat he did this year at
thirty-two he might be calculated upon as
doing at sixty-four, if his fine constitution
remained intact. Not a man, as we have
seen, to break his heart for love, but one,
nevertheless, who would hold on to his first
love out of sheer tenacity, until, like the
anemone when torn from its rock, he coi:rld
no longer clutch to any foundation, but be
cast absolutely adrift.

For six years he had held on to the possibility
of making Mary Myles his wife when
he was no longer the objectionable *' boy '*
she seemed to think him, and when he really
had something to offer. We have seen how
this base, to which he had clung, was dug
from under him. For the next four years,
by the force of habit, he had steadily pursued
the road to advancement, although
latterly with no hope of sharing the end
hoped for with the beloved one of his teens.
He rather looked forward as one of the
likeliest possibilities that he should drift (ashe

had told his father) into a sleek bachelor
rector, and never marry.

He liked agriculture moderately, but
enough to take an intelligent interest in the
land belonging to the Rectory. He liked
sport, as it is called in irony, surely, of the
sufferings it inflicts on the lower animals ;
but it was rather from the enjoyment of the
fresh breezes and the open-air exercise it
involved than from any pleasure he found in
bagging game, for he was a humane man,
into whose nature no fierceness could bestirred
up or provoked ; and another impulse
was given to out-door exercises in that he
was above all desirous to restrain within
proper limits an indication that with a life of
indolence he would develop fat.

These were the reasons that caused him to
leave his bed at least two hours before the
townsman expects to be called ; and as he
was punctual, and his habits were, as we have
seen, early, it was at eight o'clock, after some
miles had been gone over in coursing, riding,
or shooting that the Rector of Moreton sat
down to his solitary, simple breakfast in his
library, where the shelves would have been
almost bare had not all papers and periodicals

been ranged on them methodically, and so
helped to cover up some spaces which would
otherwise have been empty. The other rooms
were too large; the house had been built
with a view to the accommodation of the
usually large families appertaining to the
clergy as a rule, and this library was the
smallest and cosiest room for the usual resort
of a single man.

The clock in the hall was pointing to five
minutes to eight as the Rector, ruddier
with a deeper and browner red than heretofore,
took off his shooting jacket and
gaiters.

Any letters ? "

One, sir, which lies on the breakfast
table."

With placid face Reginald walked into the
library. He did not at once hasten to seize
the letter lying on his plate, but went and
stood before the fire in the attitude most
loved by men, but there was none other in
the room from whom his well-developed form
would have blocked out the cheerful flame,
and so far he was in his right.

He looked out for a few minutes on to his
well-kept lawn ; a few blackbirds, thrushes.

and starlings were having the breakfast he
always ordered for them.

I think we shall have a severe winter
after all, Hale; according to the old proverb,
when the days lengthen, the cold will
strengthen.' I shall get you to hang up
some more bones of meat in the shrubberies ;
I see the others are picked almost bare," and
then his thoughts went back to Sunnyside,
and his father's home, where tom-tits
abounded, and from tom-tits his mind by
a natural enough course went to Helen
Hazelhurst. How charming it would be to
see Helen on that lawn as the spring days
returned, in her pretty costumes, culling
some flowers for the breakfast table; but he
shook his head as if so preposterous an idea
ought to be and could be shaken off at a
moment's notice, and turned to the table,
where, his eye falling upon the aforesaid
letter, he quite leisurely stretched out his
hand, and, as was his wont, looked at superscription
and postmark before opening it.
What great study did it require to decipher
the Southampton postmark, and what was
there so enigmatical in that beautifully and
clearly written direction ? Whatever it was

Reginald Asbcroft made no haste to see the
contents, but looked fixedly at its exterior
only, and with an expression seldom seen on
his usually placid countenance. What power,
however, even the superscription on a letter
without reference to the contents can have
upon us, must be known to all who take up
in their hands the faded time yellowed
contents of their bureau, where letters of
some twenty years lie in their cells, tied up
in their severally assorted bundles. With
such a look as the faces of such exhibit
when their fingers touch one, which is like a
telegraphic message from the depths of
buried years, and sends an electric current
through every nerve, so in a minor degree
and in accordance with his character was the
countenance of the young Rector changed
and the more delicate fibres of his feelings
shaken. What now ! he had been asked by
his old friend Herbert to the wedding, but
Herbert knew nothing of his early love, or
he would not have asked anything so preposterous.
His mother had pressed him to accompany
them, and could not understand his
refusal; but she knew nothing also ; his father,
however, although he felt convinced that his

son had quite conquered a hopeless passion,
yet fully comprehended the situation, and
said quietly — " Of course not, my dear boy ;
who could under the lil<:e circumstances ? "
but here was a letter in Mary's own hand.
What would he have given formerly to have
seen such a one on his breakfast table ! But
none ever came. Yes, one had come, but its
taste was as bitter as gall to the youth who
was longing for some sweet medicine for his
ills. And here was one from the lady who
had married his friend after ten years' engagement.
Their constancy had outlived
his own, they deserved to be happy; and as
his thoughts became modified by this suggestion,
he slowly opened it, and very carefully
considered its contents, which were not
difficult to be mastered. " Going away to
India ; his old friend Herbert." There were
two strong motives, and the deterrent one
was the meeting his old love as a married
woman ; but then came in the figure of Helen.
What did Mrs. Langridge mean ? Yes, there
were some sweet reasons in what she said.
Both had been her pupils, and she was going
away. He owed her — why, yes, he owed to
her this comfortable Eectory ; he could not

have gone to her wedding, but now it was
quite different ; he ought to go to bid her
farewell, and then, he should see Helen —
not that he ever intended to marry, but still
he should like to see Helen. It was one additional
impetus to the scale, the balance
declined, he would go, and go immediately.

Five hours afterwards, travelling by an
express train, Reginald Ashcroft was deposited
at Southampton. After a hasty
refection, and some arrangements to his
dress at the railway hotel, the young E,ecfct)r
hastened to make his call, but he had not
proceeded far when he encountered his
father in company with another gentleman
whom only by the circumstance of such companionship
he judged to be his former friend.
The surprise of both at this meeting was so
loudly expressed that Reginald at once
understood that the letter of invitation
which he had received that morning, and so
promptly acted upon, was not a joint production,
but emanated from Mrs. Langridge
only. He consequently immediately restrained
the allusion to it which was just
about to escape from his lips as an explanation
of his sudden arrival. The hearty

VOL. II. s

welcome, however, accorded to him by
Herbert banished at once some rising
scruples.

** Well, old fellow, better late than never.
I should have been sorry not to have seen
you. In fact, I had thought of running over
by myself to your snuggery, only, you see, I
have been married but a few days after all.
Eeginald, you are a witness to the truth that
your path has been through pleasant pastures.
You are two years older than I, and yet
look at me."

I suppose a lawyer's life is a very
arduous one," said his friend, without contradicting
the patent fact that Herbert
Ijangridge at thirty had left the appearance
of youth far behind him ; " and you have
mounted the ladder so quickly."

'' You have not done amiss either, Rector,"
said Herbert smiling.

I have had so many helps," said Reginald,
quietly, and almost apologetically, " and some
patronage besides ; there is not much merit
due to myself."

The ladies are out shopping," said the
father. '' Joe Brunning has at last made up
his mind to marry our Phebe, and has given

me notice to put up the banns ; they will be
read for the first time next Sunday. Marriage
is infectious, I suppose ; anyhow, the
moment Joe knew that his patroness, the
erratum, had really entered the holy estate,
it determined him. I verily believe, however,
Herbert, that through that action of hers
your wife has lost the seraphic position she
formerly held in Joe's brain. I believe he
conceives that to be a erratum one must
be in a state of celibacy. Extremes meet,
and Joe Brunning and the Rector of St.
Mary's seem here to be in accord''

Herbert Langridge had heard of Joe and
his erratum that morning. Reginald was
well up in his father's favourite story, and
both men smiled.

So Mrs. Langridge has gone this morning
with your mother and Miss Hazelhurst — ah,
by-the-bye, she is here," said the Yicar, turning
to his son, " to make purchases of suitable
presents for the couple. If we go in the
direction of the town perhaps we shall meet
them, eh, Herbert ? They were out early, and
it is not far off our luncheon time."

How was it that in a few minutes Reginald
Ashcroft found himself walking between th

lady of his boyhood's dreams and the girl for
whom he was quite conscious of a nascent
affection ? Helen had turned red and pale
alternately at the sudden meeting at the
corner of a road, but she had smiled also.
At meeting her perhaps Reginald would have
reddened also if a stronger power in the
presence of Mrs. Langridge had not put to
flight such evidence of emotion. After a
little while Helen, however, fell back and
rejoined Mrs. Ashcroft, who was walking
with her husband and Herbert. Then and
then only, when he was conscious that there
Alas a vacancy on his left side, did Eeginald
turn with something like a lively interest to
see what had become of the handsome girl
whose skirts had brushed him a few minutes
since, and a deeper red did then dye his brow,
seeing that she had left him to join his mother.
Eeginald," said Mary, in a low voice.
Again recalled to that presence ever so potent
for him, by the mere tone of her voice, he
turned as hastily and inclined his head to Mrs.
Langridge. " We are going away the day
after tomorrow. I wrote to you of my own
accord, because you know that I have always
loved you as a younger brother. I want to

see your life put on its proper footing before
we leave."

What a strange speech ; what could she
mean?

"It is time that you were married, Reginald."


The Eector felt the same momentary repulsion
to be thus advised by Mrs. Langridge as
Helen had done.

"Mrs. Langridge, I am the best judge of
that. I have no thought of marrying."

''Do not be angry. From anyone else's
would be an impertinence, but not from me.
If you think a little while you will see that it
is not an impertinence from me."

Is there any necessity that I should marry,
Mrs. Langridge ? "

Yes ; otherwise you will sink into a self-indulgent,
easy-going country rector, of
whom there are already too many. You have
not the gifts required of a real celibate."

You are complimentary, Mrs. Langridge."

It is true, and you know it."

There was silence. The young Rector
whipped some pebbles away with his stick, as
we once saw him strike at a hedge.

You have always assumed a kind of

censorship over me, Mrs. Langridge. I owe
much to you, and I acknowledge it. What
do you want of me now ? "

'' Follow the dictates of your heart."

It was you who forbade me to follow them
once."

Follow them now ; the past is gone."

I have no doubt about your meaning,
dear Mrs. Langridge. It is meant well. You
have always meant well by me, and not me
alone. But how can you, who have always
scorned wealth, ask me to do this thing —
you, of all people in the world."

** Because in this case wealth is an accident,
and if it did not exist you would not have a
shadow of excuse."

*' Excuse ! "

*' Yes, excuse ! You should not have been
so frequent a visitor at Sunny side, to begin
with."

I am not so conceited a fool as I was in
my boyhood, Mrs. Langridge. You wrong
me if you mete me by that measure."

Mr. Langridge is about to join us," said
Mary, glancing round. " You love Helen
Hazelburst, and your love is returned. You
will lose all the place you have long held in

mj heart as my first, my oldest pupil, if you
allow any narrow sentiments to crush out
feeling," and, turning round, Mary met her
husband and linked her arm in his.

Well, what have you bought for poor
Joe?"

Among other things, which were chiefly
for Phebe, his bride, that which will gladden
him exceedingly, as it will be a possession
hitherto unattainable — a cuckoo clock. There
was one in the housekeeper's room at
Sunnyside, and it was told me once that Joe
declared if that clock were his, he should
think that he was in Paradise."

In Paradise ! I should rather feel myself
somewhere else had I such a possession
always near me," said Herbert, laughing.

'* Ah ! but poor Joe was devotedly fond of
the song of the cuckoo. It was the one bird
that made his eyes glisten to hear, and to
hear the cuckoo all the year round, night and
day. Oh ! I think there is some poetry in
poor Joe, uncouth though he is in appearance."


"Yes; there you are quite right. Joe
had poetry and aspirations, but they were
smothered like those of many another poor

fellow's higher feelings, and could not get
beyond the germinating stage. I think it was
you, Mary, who caused even that early process
in growth, which was arrested when your presence
was taken from him."

When we are in India, Herbert, I must
look out for some curiosity or ornament to
send him direct. Anything coming from
beyond seas,' as Joe would express it, would
lift him to the seventh heaven."

*' So be it. I have cause to remember Joe
as well as you, dearest ; it was he who guided
me to your garden on the most eventful day
of my life. But here we are at our hotel,
and where are the others ? Why, we are all
in pairs, and have left them far behind, and
Reginald and Cousin Helen are the last of all,
and, I think, standing still. How fond that
young Eector is of a stick; he seems to be
pointing out something to his companion
just in the manner that one sees in old
engravings, where paterfamilias is endeavouring
to awaken, by means of his
stick, the consciousness of wife and children
to something like an intelligent perception of
landscape or some architectural beauties.
Why are you laughing, Mary ? "

•* I do not know unless it is that I am so
very happy."

Why is it that after childhood a confession
of happiness is so seldom heard ? Is
it merely because it is not a durable possession
? Suppose it be not, why should not
its temporary visit be, therefore, acknowledged
with thankfulness ? A novelist much
appreciated in his day has said that people
always shrink from saying '' How happy I
am." Possibly, and so they shrink too often
from the expression of every form of gratitude.
Would that they would shrink rather
from declarations of an opposite character,
and spare their friends and relations the
utterances of a whining discontent.

Well, I don't know," proceeded Herbert,
after he had reconnoitred the couple for a
long time through his glass, " but it seems
to me, Mary, that those two young people
are now walking hand-in-hand. Stay," and
he altered the focus, " it's a fact ! Why,
Mary, what does this mean ? " and Herbert
looked with bewilderment into his wife's
smiling face.

It means, I hope, that the will walk
hand-in-hand through life."

And it also means, I think," rejoined her
husband, laughing with almost his old boyish
heartiness, " that, in addition to her other
qualifications, I have secured a good diplomatist
in my wife."

lapse of time ! flying years !

1 will not reckon up the tears
That fell the while.

Nor note thy wintry doubts and fears ;

But numbering thy springs — O years ,

Look up and smile.

Five years later breakfast was again laid in
the library of Moreton Rectory, but the
young Rector had not been out coursing as
upon a former occasion, but had been engaged
in tying up roses, with a handsome woman at
his side who held the necessary implements
and handed them to him when they were
required. The library, too, had undergone a
change ; there were no longer scantily covered
shelves, where papers and periodicals were
mostly conspicuous, but from floor to ceiling,
massive and very orthodox looking volumes

filled the formerly empty spaces. Helen and
her mother had gone over more than once to
inspect the Rectory in the weeks preceding
the marriage, so clearly foreshadowed in the
last chapter, and the first thing that appealed
to Helen was the clerical look of the
Eector's library. Her first silent determination
was, therefore, that it should be
promptly furnished with books, but furnished
without the Rector's knowledge as her
wedding present to her husband, so that on
their return from their wedding trip he might
find his shelves filled with a goodly array of
volumes. To accomplish this she went upto
London and presented herself at a well-known
ecclesiastical bookseller s, and stated
her wish to be supplied with the most suitable
works for a clergyman's library. The
first question disconcerted her —

'' What are the gentleman's views ? "

Whatever does the man mean ? " thought
Helen.

As she looked perplexed, the next question
was put more definitely —

Was the Rector high, or broad, or
low?"

Oh ! I want a good library ! " answered
Helen ; " not where a reader can only find

one thought expressed in different ways, buta
good library ; nevertheless, one especially
adapted for a clergyman."

Here was a good margin.

Was the gentleman a good classic ? "

Helen, remembering who her intended
husband's tutor had been, and his general
success, answered promptly, "Certainly!"
and the thing was done ; no translations were
to be admitted.

The young couple were on the pleasant
shores of the Riviera whilst the library of the
unconscious bridegroom was being weighted
with the ponderous tomes of the Fathers and
Doctors of the Church, all, as Helen prided
herself, being in the original Greek.

With what joyous contentment and satisfaction
did the happy wife regard her husband's
astonished look on the morning after
their return home, as he stood in the middle
of the room and gazed on his lately acquired
literary wealth with amazement. He could
only say —

Why, Helen ! "

"I think you will find them all there,"
she answered, with proud consciousness ;
Tertullian, Chrysostom, Cyprian, Origen,
and all the rest. I am sure I cannot remember

half their names, and they are all in
the originals ; and you see they are all in the
proper church binding. I hope you are
pleased ? "

'' A man would be a stolid wretch, Helen,
who was not gratified at so noble a gift ; but
but — dearest, do you demand me to read
them ? It would take me my life."

Of course you'll have to read them ! "
cried innocent Helen, putting aside his suggestion
as excess of modesty ; " every clergyman
does. But on the other side," she said,
turning him round, " you'll find the works of
all the best English divines when you want a
change from the Greek. Of course there are
no light books here. I have had them all put
into what is going to be our morning-room,
along with my own books. I have a goodly
array of them. We must not have breakfast
here, you know, Reginald, as a rule ; it
would be quite like sacrilege."

Let us breakfast here once or twice a
week, Helen, if it be only that I may enjoy
looking upon your generous gift."

Well," said Helen, somewhat reluctantly,
we'll do so for the present; but, dear Reginald,
do not call it a generous gift again; ita
love gift, and you'll be in their midst often

enough. All clergymen have to pass hours
every day in their studies and libraries."

And this morning, following the rule then
established, breakfast was laid in the library
where the good Fathers reposed in peaceful,
undisturbed rest.

A letter from dear Cousin Mary ! " cried
Helen ; " here's a treat in store for you, Reginald.
What a beautiful handwriting it is ! "

I think it is perfect," said the Rector.

And the writer perfection. Is it not so,
Reginald ? She alone does all things well"

That is true," said the Rector ; " and
never so well as when she made you mine,"
and he looked over her shoulder as his wife
broke the seal.

Shall I read it, or shall we read it
together ? "

We will read it together," answered
Reginald, and sliding his left arm round her
he held the letter with his right hand to
steady it whilst the opposite page was in his
wife's left hand, her right resting upon his
shoulder. We will also, looking over both
their shoulders, read with them.

"Dearest Helen,

The time is approaching when, in all
probability, we shall return to England as was

expected. There have been Tnany difficulties,
which at one time seemed to render that
event still to be regarded as a future one,
instead of being near ; and these have been
hindrances to mj writing to you, as I wished
to pause before doing so in order that I might
know what plans we could decide upon making.
"Herbert and myself have well considered
the matter, though doubtless you will be
surprised at its requiring any consideration
when the fact of his retirement, with full
pension and a baronetcy, was the price held
out to him before he left England ; otherwise
I do not think he had the intention of returning
at all, as it now appears that he was most
averse to bringing me here ; but the bait was
too much [for him, dear fellow. He was so
delighted at the idea of making me a Lady.
Behold, wherefore, he took up this judgeship !
But he regards all these things differently
now. To accept a baronetcy and to leave
India, retiring at the early age of thirty-five
on full salary, is unprecedented. The
baronetcy had no attractions for myself —
quite the reverse. Had it not been for the
children, and for the sake of his own health,
I should have counselled staying the full
term of twenty years ; but our two dear little

ones could not be sacrificed, and to send them
away to England — even to my darling Helen
no, it could not be; or to go with them
myself and leave Herbert there alone indelicate
health (for the climate of India does
not suit him, he is too energetic for it, and it
is wearing him out). How could I consent I
There only appeared to us one honourable
solution — to resign on account of his health
and to decline the retiring pension and also
the baronetcy ; which we have done. I perfectly
understand now the cause of the
departure from ordinary rules in the case of
Herbert. He works as no other man has
ever worked. It is killing him. He would
not have liked it to be thought that the
presence of his wife had made him less
arduous. Sharing this feeling, I have never
discouraged his energy. It would take too
long to explain to you the reasons why he is
so much estimated ; it will suffice to say that
outside his judgeship he has rendered the
Government most important services in pacifying
the native Princes, arbitrating between
them and settling their claims. He is, in
truth, a most valuable servant, but for all
that we will not clutch at the reward. I say

VOL. II. T

we,' because I have worked with him, having
been his secretary all along save when it was
necessary for me to have temporary rest.
Herbert is getting anxious also about me, so
there is no other way.

''I have entered into all these business
matters because you made some allusion in
your last letter to my returning as Lady
Lanofridge. Thank God ! it will not be so.
We shall have ample means for living a
simple country life in England, which was
always my desire. I feared lest Herbert
might be disappointed if he were not 671-
7iohled, but he has cast all that aside quite
cheerfully.

And now, having exhausted all these dry
details, I hasten to reply to a more homely
but more soul-engrossing topic. I am glad
to tell you that Grantham is a fine healthy
boy, and is not at present affected by the
climate. Herbert and myself have lately
agreed to call him by his second name —
Grantham — and not Reginald, as sometimes
it is awkward when the little ones bear the
same names as their elders; and when we
return to England we hope to see a great
deal of you both ; and cousin Reginald will
always be * Reginald ' with myself and husband.

I do not know how it will fare with
mj little girl's two legitimate names — ' Margaret
Brereton,' for she is only called ' Mary-gold
' here. Herbert loses all his careworn
looks when this child is present. He delights
in driving his fingers through her hair,
and making it stand up all round her face,
which it readily does, as it is more wavy, or
rather grizzly, than my own, which you know
always objected to lie down ; and the child's
hair is in fact literally like cried gold
threads from the very roots. I suppose I
have heard a hundred times dear Herbert's
delighted exclamation, ' What else is she buta
marigold ! ' after he has succeeded in
making it stand out like rays around her
fair little face, where the blue eyes laugh out
from the midst of the living aureole. Forgive
me, darling ; you are yourself a fond
mother, and know the garrulous weakness
appertaining to such individuals. Talking of
*Marigold,' carries me to Margaret Brereton,
her godmother by proxy. I had a letter
from the dear girl only yesterday, in which
there were also a few lines to Herbert from
the father. She is carrying on the work of
the Marigold Guild bravely, and helps her
father in every way, studying always with

him. How glad I am for her father s sake !
a holy man, Helen, and a true. I long
for you and Reginald to know him.

I cannot write any more, as being still
secretary, I have much work on my hands.
Kindest regards from both to dear cousin
Reginald, and much love to yourself, from
your cousin

May.

Just a few words to say that I know
nothing about the exquisite water-colour
drawing you speak of as found in Dr. Grantham's
portfolio, labelled in the doctor's handwriting
as ' Nausikaa,' which Mr. Ashcroft
has secured, thinking that it must be a portrait
of myself when a girl. I was certainly
at no time drawn in the character of Nau-
sikaa, nor playing with a ball, although I
was very fond of that simple sport in my
girlish days. Dear Dr. Grantham, I remember,
had an especial admiration for that
young Homeric princess, so much so, that
in his last moments, when his mind was
wandering, and speech had almost failed, I
heard him in broken accents murmur ' Nau-
sikaa.'"

THE END.

^

\0

r'SJfe^-

^S l/^

''^-^ir-^^^m

%^>

K^^kw^MJ'^m^.

;^x '.W^~K'0

BY

MRS EDMONDS

AUTHOR OF

"Fair Athens'' '' Hesperus '' "Greek Lays"

IN TWO VOLUMES

VOL I

LONDON

REMINGTON & CO PUBLISHERS

HENRIETTA STREET COVENT GARDEN



[All Bights Reserved]

Eci57/m

To

MY HUSBAND,

AT WHOSE REQUEST

IT WAS WRITTEN,

THIS STORY IS DEDICATED



CHAP. PAGE

Introductory Chapter — Nausikaa . i

I. Mrs. Hazelhurst's Governess . . 7

II. Modern Hamadryad . . . 30

III. The Cousins . . . . 47

IV. At the Chestnuts 60

V. A Bunch of Harebells, and what came of it "]"]

VI. Could it be possible .? . 95

VII. Misapprehensions . . . . 107

VIII. Dr. Grantham's Illness 122

IX. In a Garden . . 142

X. First Love . . . . 174

XL Retrospection 189

XII. Mrs. Langridge is Indignant 202

Xii The Parting 237

XIV. A Dull Dinner Party 255

XV. A Night's Sorrow 264

XVI, Herbert Langridge leaves Sunnyside . 273

'Pea 6' apiyviora TreAerat, Kakal Se re sacral.
*fls ijy' afi<^i7rdAoi(n jaereVpeTre Trap6evo<; a5ju,Tj?.

'OSvcraeia.

Two friends were strolling by the banks of the
Cam in the pleasant garden of Trinity. The
one was the great classical authority of whom
Oxford was so justly proud ; a man withal of
a goodly presence to whose commanding
figure was joined a face the thoughtful intelligence
of which was tempered by a kind and
genial expression, and if over his head some
fifty years might possibly have already
passed, they had left no trace of any abiding
cares by which to mark their course. The
other, although nearly two years younger,
was spare in person and rather bent, not

VOL. I. B

certainly from bis age, which was but forty
or thereabouts, but from a habit of stooping
contracted in his youth ; but his friend
would sometimes assert with all the warmth
of a son devoted to the Alma Mater of his
choice that the dominant studies of the
colleges by the Isis were more health-preserving
than those which obtained the preference
at the sister university, in evidence
of which he deduced his own portly and
erect figure in contradistinction to the lean
habit of body, and the drooping shoulders of
the abstruse mathematician. Very seldom
could a few hours pass in the scanty opportunities
afforded them of social intercourse
without a lively discussion upon the superior
merits of the venerable institutions to which
each was loyally pledged. Playful skirmishes
these, all of them, with little semblance of
real combats, for the champions on either
side knew full well beforehand that with
weapons so equally tempered, wielded by
skill as equally shared, neither to one nor the
other was victory or defeat possible.

Well, we have beaten you now thoroughly
with our new phalanx of Amazons," cried
the master of Trinity. " You have heard of
the honours gained here lately by a mere

girl, although, to be sure, I must own that
she came out best in the classics."

"I have no interest nor any curiosity
whatever in respect to your female phalanx.
If you reckon upon that you will sustain a
crushing defeat."

But, I tell you, this girl's papers were a
perfect revelation as to a woman's powers."

*' Pshaw ! at what sacrifice ? ''

Sacrifice ? "

'' Yes. I venture to say that she wears
spectacles, is sallow, and — "

"And what?"

Forgive me, friend, round-shouldered."

(The era of the above conversation was, of
course, before Newnham and Somerville
Colleges were established.)

Ah, I know — the old story ; I think that
I have heard you affirm that it was of no
consequence if a truly beautiful woman could
not write her own name."

The history of all time has shown that
the supreme power of woman ]has always
lain in her beauty, not in her learning."

Such an admirer of female loveliness as
yourself should not now be a bachelor, methinks."


My good fellow, there is such a thing as

disillusion. I can go through life, you see,
with my own dream of fair women ever with
me ; but disillusion, the frequent concomitant
of marriage, no, I could not risk it."

You have never been in love, that is quite
clear, unless in your dreams, with the white-armed
Helen."

Heaven forbid ! the white-armed Helen
was never to my taste. Menelaus was a
good fellow ; but a white-armed Helen
would have deposited me in six feet of earth
in no time ; and now confess, father of
goodly sons and daughters, on the confines
of fifty must not one give up the hopes
engendered of dreams ? "

'' You have indulged such hopes, then ?
May I ask in what likeness she was to have
come who could have converted a dream
into a reality ?"

In the likeness of another white-armed,
but also a white-souled woman, the daughter
of King Albinus."

'' Ha, ha, Nausikaa ! NavaiKda \6VK(ok€vo<; ! '*

The great mathematician burst out into a
peal of laughter.

"Does Oxford really give birth to such
phantasies ? But come with me, I have
promised to look in at a tennis party this

afternoon; it is now almost past the time,
and as I do not want to part with you lest
you slip through my fingers, and I lose you
for this evening, come with me ; I shall not
detain you long," and he linked his arm into
that of his friend.

The tennis tournament was, however, over ;
it had only been a tournament of women, and
most of them had left. Whilst the hostess,
after her introduction to the great man, was
gently reproaching her friend for his want of
punctuality, the Oxford professor was attentively
regarding the few girls who remained,
and who, having flung down their rackets,
were simply engaged in throwing and catching
the balls. One of them, with arms upraised,
which served to show to advantage
her tall, slight, but elegantly proportioned
figure, whose hat, having fallen off, left to
view a wind-ruffled mass of bright-waved
chestnut hair overshadowing a broad, white
brow, especially rivetted his regard. As she
turned her head a bright blush overspread a
rather pale face at observing the presence of
the two gentlemen. The contour of every
feature approached nearer to the classical
type than is usually seen in England, and
her fine grey eyes, which, undroopingly and

with a kind of queenly composure, notwithstanding
the belying glow on her cheeks, met
the looks bent upon her, had a singular light
in them, for which the word steadfastness,
however inadequate, is the best interpretation
possible.

By heaven ! " whispered the great
classic, " 'tis Nausikaa herself."

** 'Tis the girl who gained the honours'*
said his friend. " Let me introduce you."

When shows been sheene and shades full fare,

And leaves both large and longe,

It's merry walking in the fare forrest

To heare the small birds songe.

Old Ballad.

Things such as these are ever harbingers
To trains of peaceful images

A linnet starting all about the bushes ;

A butterfly with golden wing broad parted

Nestling a rose.

Keats.

A LOFTY room, flooded with sunshine and
redolent with the perfume of fresh flowers,
books, the best of all possible garnitures,
piled on the tables and smiling on the walls
from every recess, drawings, musical instruments,
and for a central figure a woman of
surpassing grace of form, whose bright and
lofty beauty was tempered by the almost
singular contrast of garments severe even to

rigidity, made altogether a picture which
would have arrested the most commonplace
beholder. The genius of the place, who had
cast the glamour of her personality on every
item of this spot, appropriated to study, was
now resting her elbows upon a table with
folded hands, and looking athwart the
volumes thereon, was gazing dreamily into
the garden whence came floating through the
open French windows the clear jubilant notes
of a blackbird, which seemed as if his very
soul must burst from excess of joy; in that
within the heart of that same thick-leaved
thorn tree were his well-fledged offspring
beating their open wings with impatience for
their first flight. Something very like dewdrops
glistened in those fine grey eyes,
although Mary Myles had left the impressionable
age of eighteen behind her some seven
years since ; albeit, tears were ready to start
at the sound of a blackbird's note, which was,
indeed, like a trumpet note of recall, but
brought back memories only. The lapse of
nearly eight summers which bridged over the
gap between girlhood and womanhood might
possibly have infringed somewhat upon the
first freshness of her cheek, but if Burke is
right when he defines this epoch in a

woman's life as one in which if some of the
bloom tints have faded, the loss is amply
compensated by a look of refined sensibility,
such a result was visible in a marked degree
in the countenance of Mary Myles. It was
an eminently beautiful face, but somehow it
did not always at once strike the beholder
as being so. Critical observers, who also
possessed a feeling for the highest forms of
Art, would pause to consider what it was that
exercised almost a magnetic influence over
them when they found themselves arrested in
the contemplation of that unique figure
occupying some shadowy corner in Mrs.
Hazelhurst's drawing-room at her frequent
receptions. If they were ladies and amiably
disposed, they would compliment the hostess
upon her taste and perception in having
secured for her governess one who possessed
the unusual combination of learning with
grace of person, summing up their commendations
with the moderate praise of,
** What a very interesting face ! " Those of
the masculine gender, on the contrary, after
the first almost startled look of surprise,
would give a second glance somewhat
stealthily to assure themselves of the actual
presence of the highest type of womanly

beauty so unexpectedly brought before them,
and would be silent, as the deepest convictions
are ever slow to utter themselves.

"Whenever some leader of thought, some
college don or literary giant was invited, Mrs.
Hazelhurst, out of the very kindness of her
heart, would inwardly rejoice that she had
ready at hand the very commodity that was
needed ; for Mrs Hazelhurst fell into the
error of believing that a superior woman
would be required for the solace of a superior
man, and was quite oblivious of the fact that,
as a rule, learned men prefer to refresh themselves
with the society of their feminine
opposites rather than to be paired with the
best tripos, medallist, or wrangler Girton or
Newnham may ever produce.

Upon these occasions Mrs. Hazelhurst
would manage to convey in whispers to the
great man who was about to meet Miss Myles
for the first time, what was in store for him,
all unwitting of the sinking at his heart
occasioned by her words. The mental friction
thereby induced, however, seldom lasted until
the dining-room door was reached, for he
would quickly discover that the lady consigned
to him, although reported to be from Girton,
had a slight, elegant, and graceful figure.

and if he had an eye for Art he would realize
that her garments were singularly simple and
flowing, and markedly free from all meretricious
ornamentation. Being encouraged to
pursue his investigations, he, too, would soon
perceive that she had a very interesting face,
if he did not go further, and pronounce it
beautiful, and in less than ten minutes he
would, moreover, congratulate himself on the
fact that she had a very mellow and thrillingly
sweet voice, and whatever there might
be behind, at any rate she was not learned in
discourse.

The result of such preliminary observation
having successfully cleared the air, the professor
who possessed some pet theory which
he was desirous of airing, would inwardly
rejoice that he had at last met with a highly
cultivated woman, who had no theories of her
own, or who, at least, was not voluble upon
them. Here, he mio^ht be imagined as reflecting,
was a feminine intellect which was capable
of understanding and appreciating him. The
evident satisfaction to be derived from the
receptivity of this superior feminine mind was
not diminished by the consideration that it
was accompanied by a face fair enough in its
bare outline to challenge any criticism, whilst

at the same time there was a something behind
which seemed to defy the power of the
analyst. What was that subtle charm ? more
than one wise one had asked himself. Where
lay that power of attraction which that quiet
aspect, and those calm grey eyes appeared to
veil ?

Mrs. Hazelhurst had observed with some
astonishment, not unmixed with pleasure, that
her dear old friend, the wise, wealthy, learned,
and good Dr. Grantham, behind whose name
in print tripped some dozen or more letters
of the alphabet, and whose eyes had always
beamed upon Miss Myles with fatherly interest,
whilst his manners had always shown
the most marked courtesy, was at last
gradually throwing off this attitude of formal
respect, and was assuming one at once more
familiar and tender. She remembered upon
his first introduction to her governess what
an earnest and inquiring look was that which
he had bent upon her, and how vivid was her
blush as he said, *' We have surely met
before ? " She had noticed lately that his
voice would drop almost to a confidential
whisper whenever opportunity brought him
to take a seat by Miss Myles' s side. How
annoying it was that upon the two last

occasions of a visit from him the lady iu
question had made some excuse for retiring
early ! To her absence from the drawing-room
she had attributed the sudden collapse
of Dr. Grantham, who had been previously
unusually animated, and who afterwards remained
in his customary dignified reserve for
the rest of the evening.

I do not think," said Mrs. Hazelhurst to
herself this very morning as she was closing
a note to this same worthy friend of hers, '' I
do not think that there could possibly be a
more suitable wife for him. She will never
rub against any of his angles, and though
they are imperceptible to most people, yet I
know that he has angles," and Mrs. Hazel-hurst
smiled at her own concealed jest on the
rather corpulent don.

Mrs. Hazelhurst paused as she was placing
this in its envelope. " I wonder that she did
not marry six or seven years ago," she again
soliloquized, and with almost a feeling of pity.
"She must have been very pretty — very pretty;
but I suppose that she was always too quiet
to take the fancy of a young man, too quiet,
too fond of study, perhaps, or a thought too
cold. Young men like girls with sprightliness
and vivacity, with something in them, but

when middle-aged and elderly men contemplate
matrimony, too lively a companion
might entail many inconveniences. Advancing
years require repose, and those grey eyes of
hers are a promise of long life to any old
bachelor who will trust himself to their
influence," and Mrs. Hazelhurst smiled again
over her own thoughts as she closed the
envelope. " I shall be very sorry to lose her,
certainly, but it will be a real benefit to both
concerned when Miss Myles becomes Mrs.
Grantham."

A laughing girl in the bloom of early
maidenhood burst into the room at this
juncture, and threw her arms impetuously
around her mother s neck, crying —

Largess ! largess ! "

What now, you madcap darling r " said
Mrs. Hazelhurst, fondly regarding her
daughter's glowing face as she gently unwound
her arms, and held her off with a
hand on each of her shoulders. " I thought
my Helen was deeply immersed in her studies,
and that I was at least safe from one of her
irruptions for an hour or two. What is it
that brings you hither ? What new indulgence
do you claim ?"

Ah ! you will never guess. But I will
not keep you in suspense. Herbert is
coming."

Herbert ? "

'eyes, Herbert — that dear boy, Herbert.
I^ow, are you not as glad as I am, and must
I not have a holiday ? "

*' Herbert coming at last ! Yes, I am
glad, very glad."

Mrs. Hazelhurst stooped to kiss Helen on
her cheek, and her own face suddenly overspread
with a colour almost as bright as her
daughter's.

See, dearest mother, here is a pretty
little note enclosed for you ; but cousin
Herbert has owed me a letter a long while,
and so you will not mind his writing to me
to announce his coming, will you ? And I
may have a holiday ? It would be utterly
impossible to read those dry things Miss
Myles is so fond of, with Herbert expected
to arrive every moment. To-morrow I shall
be more reasonable."

"As usual," laughed her mother. "But
quiet, quiet ; let me read the short note the
dear boy has vouchsafed me, and kiss your
thanks when I have granted your request."

As Mrs. Hazelhurst ran her eyes over the
few lines her countenance brightened more
and more.

"Dear fellow," she said, half to herself;
*' no son could write more lovingly." Then
turning to her daughter, " Go, darling," she
cried, gaily, " and tell Miss Myles that she is
freed to-day from her troublesome pupil, and
be ready to go with me in half-an-hour. "We
will drive to the station to meet him. Your
aunt is good enough to let us have him for
three whole weeks. He has been studying
hard, and needs a change. It shall not be
our fault, shall it, pussy" — and the mother
pinched Helen's firm, rosy cheeks — " if he
does not enjoy himself?"

Helen Hazelhurst clapped her hands in
boisterous delight, and sped swiftly on the
light feet of fifteen to the room where Miss
Myles was still leaning upon her elbows and
the blackbird was still piping on the tree.

He is coming — he is coming — this very,
very day ! We are off to the station to meet
him, and you, too, have a holiday; " and the
pupil with unrepressed affection kissed her
governess warmly.

"Who is coming?" said Miss Myles,
smiling, as she took a hand of Helens in

each of her own, and looked in her face
intently.

'why, my half cousin, Herbert, whom I
have not seen for four years. It really is
too bad, for he is a real brother to me. You
have often heard me speak of Herbert
Langridge, and what a dear, good, darling
boy he is."

Oh, yes ; I have often listened with
great pleasure to your warm praises of your
cousin. But, of course, he's not a darling
boy now, is he ? I thought that he was
about to study for the Bar, so he cannot be
exactly a boy."

'' Well, I believe that he is just turned
twenty; he is four years older than I am.
And when he was here last he did everything
that I asked him to do ; and I do not
think that he has changed one bit by his
letter to me, for he says he is looking
forward to a return of the old days together.
Not," said Helen, laughing, " that I shall
expect he will go fishing for tadpoles, or
swing in the same swing, nor shall I be so
wicked as to ask him to climb and rob a nest
of one of its eggs for my collection. Times
have changed ; " and Helen gaily tossed her
head.

VOL. I. c

But sixteen is rather beyond the age
when a boy fresh from Harrow usually fishes
for tadpoles, is it not ? " said Miss Myles,
turning her clear grey eyes full upon Helen's
beaming face with an amused look.

*' You don't understand, you prim old
dear. Of course he only did it to please his
little cousin, because, you see, he has no
sister, and he is devoted to me whenever he
has had the chance of getting here. I shall
get him to tame that wild pony of mine. We
shall ride out together every day. Will it
not be glorious ? But I am only thinking of
myself. Dear Miss Myles, what will you
do ? You will not pore over books whilst
I—"

Helen paused.

Helen, I have been listening to a blackbird
till I am thoroughly unhinged. It
brought back my old home so vividly that
I seem to be fit for nothing but idleness and
dreams. It is well that I am free to indulge
them, or you would have found me tripping
for once."

A gay peal of laughter at the bare suggestion
of her governess being at fault rang out
from Helen as she bounded from the room.

Half-an-hour later Mrs. Hazelhurst and

Helen were driving to the station. As the
sounds of the carriage wheels died away, Miss
Myles, who had stood at her chamber window
waving her hand as long as they were insight,
closed the casement and threw herself
into a chair.

Free ! " she said, drawing in a long
breath, *' Free ! " and as if to realize what
the full sense of freedom meant to her she
took out the comb round which her thick
coils of hair were gathered and shook them
down somewhat impatiently. As the masses
of rich wavy brown hair, which was usually
held in the most rigid subjection, were
loosened they tumbled in bright ripples over
her shoulders.

But this did not appear quite to content
the physical longings within her. These only
appeared satisfied when she thrust her bared
feet (and what feet they were) into the
prettiest of velvet shoes, and then she
laughed — yes, laughed outright — with as
joyous a laugh as if she were barely sixteen
instead of nearly six-and-twenty. She then
flung off her stiff white collar and cuffs,
and taking a book from her shelves opened
the door and listened. A strange preparation
for an outing.

'* Prim ?" she said, interrogatively, as she
glanced at herself in passing the mirror;
but perhaps I had better take hat and
wrap as a precaution and protection in case
of a surprise." Another subdued but musical
laugh escaped her. " There, now, I shall be
all right whatever may betide," she said, as
she hung her straw hat over her arm by its
strings. Opening the door again, she stood
listening as if irresolute. " There is no one
about — no one will see me," she half-whispered,
and running swiftly down the stairs
she passed out of a side-door into a winding
and shaded path which led out of the garden
into some shrubberies, the appearance of
which showed that it was seldom trodden.
Arriving at the little wicket gate which terminated
it she reached the wild and picturesque
slopes, dotted with clumps of trees
and interspersed with brushwood and bracken,
in the intervening spaces of which flourished
a succession of wild plants from the wind-flowers
of breezy March to the joy-giving
little eyesight and harebells that now
flecked the ground with their delicate embroideries.


As the gate swung behind her, the thorough
sense of unrestrained freedom brought a rush

of colour to her cheek and a brightness to
her eye. As she shook back her waves of
hair with the unconscious action of a young
colt, which, tossing its mane, careers, innocent
of bit and bridle, over the fresh
pastures, she was transformed at once from
a staid governess into a beautiful young
woman abounding in health and spirits, to
whom all conventional shackles were constitutionally
hateful; but as the well-bred
colt under training bears the curb and obeys
its rider with a proud grace and dignified
meekness unknown to, and impossible to be
attained by the mere cob, so this young
woman, bowing to the yoke of circumstance,
could hold her high spirit in subjection with
a power unattainable by the undisciplined.

She no longer walked, but bounded along
in the intensity of her joyous happiness, her
little white feet in their ruby velvet shoes
gleaming on the bright dew-besprinkled turf.
A clump of large chestnut trees which grew
on a slight mound was the point whither her
light footsteps tended. Their large arms
offered ample shade from the sun, which was
already high in the heavens, but the branches
were not too close to prevent some rays from
permeating their foliage, but allowed them

to flicker and gambol on the tufted grass
beneath, where they toyed first with one
flower and then with another, hanging golden
chains on each by turns, whilst they shifted
ever and anon with the waving shadows,
which the lighter boughs bore with them as
they were swayed to and fro by the freshening
breeze.

Here I am safe from all intrusion," cried
the governess, as she reached the knoll ; " no
one ever comes here. No one seems to care
for all this," and her kindled eyes swept
eagerly over the landscape before her. 'alone
with you — alone with you once more ! " and
she stretched out her arms to the sky, to the
trees, to the brightly-glowing noonday sun,
as though she and they were in accord, as
though they were sentient creatures whom
she loved and they knew ifc.

Her cry of joy, however, was hushed on a
sudden, and was almost merged into one of
pain as her glance fell upon the ruddy velvet
shoes, which were saturated with the heavy
dews of the morning. Some tufts of the
shade-loving wood-sorrel, peering out of the
long grass, had tempted her to leave the path.
She had gathered some of the umbels, which,
touched by the sun's rays, were already

drooping in her belt. What trifles are those
which habitually disturb our serenity and
cloud our brightest moments — a pair of
soiled shoes, a fading flower ! The buoyant
cheerfulness, the ecstasy of a few moments
since, fled before them. The shoes were
Helen's gift, and the flowers — Why had she
plucked them ? Was it not a plant rarely
found in that neighbourhood and sparse anywhere
? Why had she plucked them ? They
were withering already, and they had not
fulfilled their appointed task. In her eager
glee, like a thoughtless child, she had gathered
them all, and had left no pods to ripen and
cast their seeds for the wistful earth to nurse
and cherish. Why had she plucked them
all? Was gladness always selfish ?

Subdued in feeling, she slipped off Helen's
pretty embroidered gifts, and laid them in
the sun to dry, and, sitting down at the foot
of her most favourite tree, leaned against its
trunk. The " Blessed Damsel," that exquisitely
mystic poem of Rossetti's, which
always chained her fancy, will not be looked
at to-day. Some thoughts are for the moment
in the ascendency, which are no longer in accord
with the landscape, nor the golden sunshine,
not to be gladdened at the long-armed,

full-leaved chestnut trees, nor the thin-stalked
harebells growing in such profusion at their
base; but they are troublous thoughts which
are now uppermost, whose advent is marked
by a faint little streak between the brows —
thoughts full of some shadowy care, which
had brought tears into her eyes as she heard
the blackbird, which, in far-advanced July,
was celebrating in jubilant song the unwonted
blessing of a second brood, which his faithful
mate had just given him in consolation for
the tragical end of the little fledgelings of
treacherous April. It must surely have been
that letter which the morning post had
brought her, and which she read again and
again whilst the bright bird was pouring out
his very heart in her ears, and which was
nevertheless forgotten at the very first
whisper of the possibility of a whole morning's
communion with Nature, but had now
come back to her remembrance at the sight
of those delicate wild flowers dying in her
girdle, and with the suggestions of future
cares and responsibilities which its contents
offered to her as a prize worthy of her acceptance,
had dimmed that serenity which was
one of her greatest attractions.

At this moment a large scarlet Admiral

moth came fluttering towards her. It hovered
over her head for some seconds as if to claim
her attention, as though it had a message to
deliver, and the faint line between the brows
faded away when at once, as if it were
a creature of thought, it gaily circled round
her with renewed and more lively movements
in its gorgeous wings, and finally poised
itself, as if for a noontide rest, upon the
uppermost of the two bare feet that lay
crossed on the dry herbage. It was enough.
A smile illumined her whole face, and at the
sight of the trusting, lovely little creature,
which, with folded wings, was now sleeping
on her instep, all disquieting speculations 'as
to a choice in life vanished in a trice. By
degrees a delicious drowsiness stole over her
and the lids gradually veiled the eyes that
dwelt with fondness on the friendly insect,
Rossetti slid from her unloved hands, her
head drooped, and she also slept.

Some ten minutes might have elapsed when
a very young man, tall and handsome, with a
frame well and strongly knit together, flung
himself, portmanteau in hand, over the ha-ha
fence some half a mile distant, and walked
rapidly along the woodland path leading to
the clump of chestnut trees.

The place is looking somewhat wilder
than heretofore, and the path is almost overgrown,"
he said, half aloud. " This is what
gardeners abhor as a rule : a real living bit
of Nature, a wilderness, a desert, as they say.
However, I shall remember the way to the
house when T get to those old chestnuts, for
of course they are not cut down ; my aunt is
not so infatuated as to allow Stevenson to do
that, Goth as he is. Ah, here they are," he
exclaimed aloud as, emerging from some thick
underwood, he came suddenly upon them.
*' How grand they look ! but shade of Theocritus
! a wood-nymph sleeping under their
shadows ! "

Herbert Langridge stopped bewildered,
and for a moment or two paused irresolutely,
debating whether he should proceed or
retrace his steps. It seemed as though he
were really an intruder into some sacred
precinct; but, second thoughts prevailing,
he went forward, treading, however, more
slowly, and even on tiptoe, so that he might
be able to pass on without awakening the
sleeper. There were fragments of dead
boughs strewn all about which the winds
of March in their anger had torn off, and
which, dry and brittle as they were, crunched

and crackled under his feet, trod he ever
so carefully. Who could wonder, too, that
as he drew nearer he turned his head in passing
to take a second look at so unwonted a
sight as a woman, young and fair (for that he
saw at once the sleeper undoubtedly was),
sleeping at midday in a lonely place under a
tree with uncovered head and flowing hair,
and — yes, there was no mistake — bare feet;
and what feet ! Had they been the ordinary
kind of feet which girls sometimes display on
the sands at a neighbouring foreign watering
place, it is more than probable, that, averting
his gaze with disgust, Herbert would have
hastened on with no very kindly thoughts to
their possessor for revealing them. But
those feet were as white and as perfect inform
as if just cut from the marble in days
gone by, when the deforming fashion of high
heels and other atrocious feet-coverings of
the same class were unknown. Herbert
Langridge was as modest as any maiden ;
but he could not choose but look. Certain is
it, too, that at this juncture the graceful form,
the uncommon type of face, as well as those
statuesque little feet, so startled him that fora
moment he forgot his precautions, and
treading inadvertently upon a withered

bough it snapped with so sharp a report
that the sleeper slowly opened her eyes and
fixed them, as if in calm unconsciousness, on
the face of the young man who was so steadfastly
regarding her. As their eyes met
thus involuntarily Herbert felt a chill shiver
run through him as the blood rushed to his
face and brow. Hastily averting his head,
without raising his hat, and with the faint
hope that the wood-nymph, or cousin, or whatever
reality the vision might afterwards
assume, might think after all that she had
been unobserved, he strode hurriedly and
rapidly on.

Miss Myles, so suddenly awakened, forgot
for some moments her loosened hair and unclothed
feet. "When this double consciousness
arose within her she hastily gathered up
her tresses into a knot and thrust her feet
into the now dry slippers. As she drew her
hat carefully over her brows, she for the
first time turned her head in the direction
which the stranger who had intruded upon
her had taken. As her eyes followed the
stalwart figure of the young man retreating
in the distance, the fact that he must be the
Herbert Langridge whose expected coming

Helen had announced that morning was self-evident.


"They will be a handsome couple," she
said to herself as she looked after him. A
turn in the path hid him from sight, and
when she saw him no longer she said, half-aloud,
'who could have dreamt of his
coming along this tangled by-path ? He
must have thought that I was a hamadryad
who had lost her way."

Whence came that high perfection of all sweetness ?

Keats.

As with flushed brow, kindled eye, and
hastened pace Herbert Langridge reached
the same wicket-gate through which Miss
Myles had passed some hours before, it might
almost have seemed that he was hurrying
from some unpleasant object rather than a
graceful wood-nymph surprised sleeping ; but
his body obeyed automatically the electric
spark that had suddenly fired his soul.

Dea certes he murmured, as he slackened
his speed only when his hand rested upon
the gate.

Herbert Langridge was fresh from classical
honours, and unwittingly and without
pedantry bis thoughts clothed themselves in
their late most familiar garb. ^^Dem certes he

repeated, as now for the first time he turned
and looked back, but he saw nothing but
the upland slopes, and the top branches of
the chestnut trees. With a long, searching
glance he sought on either side of the copse
if he might catch the shadowy glimpse of a
flowing robe or skimming white feet. Once,
for a moment, his heart leapt into his mouth
as, in good sooth, he did see a white object
flitting among the ferns. Pooh ! it was buta
grey rabbit, and had a gleam of white
merely from contrast with the brown tints
of last year's bracken. Should he not retrace
his steps? Perhaps after all that
charming: creature miofht turn out to be his
laughter-loving cousin Helen, whom he remembered
as dearly loving a prank. But
the vision was all too delightful to admit of
any such solution, or to be lost in a reality,
even if the reality was a girl to the full as
lovely as his mother's description of his
young cousin, and was not in accordance
with his present mood. He preferred to let
his mind roam into the improbable, and
his imagination careered among the wood-nymphs
of whom his loved classic poets had
written, and just at that moment he would
have resented the approach of any disillusive

explanation threatening to strip off the veil
of his fantastic imagery, as though it were
the hand of a rude satyr, stretching forth to
grasp and rend away a hamadryad's vesture.

Slowly, very slowly, Herbert Langridge
bent his way in the direction of the house.
He was leaving, as he thought, poetry and
idyllic beauty behind. Every step that he
took made the late scene appear more idealistic,
more mystic, and invested it by means
of his highly-wrought sensibilities with every
ethereal attribute that has ever been woven
into the intricacies of verse.

Slowly, more slowly, did Herbert Langridge
linger as he drew still nearer to his
aunt's home. The glow of excitement and
surprise had faded away, and he was pale
and very grave; he, who with animated
gestures, had been singing and whistling
alternately before he had leapt the ha-ha
fence. Laugh as some may in their lighter
moods at spontaneity in love, it is nevertheless
the healthy outcome of pure and reverent
youth, when the intellect and feelings in due
subjection the one to the other, listen with
religious awe to every voice of Nature and
of God ; and Herbert Langridge was undoubtedly
in love, not with Mary Myles, the

governess, whose name he had never heard,
and of whose very existence he was ignorant,
but with the wood-nymph asleep yonder,
with loosened hair and bared feet.

Is it credible, it will be said, that any sane
youth whose years have been devoted to real
hard work, and whose demeanour always
suggested the very reverse of a moonstruck
dreamer, could on a sudden have both heart
and brain so unhinged by the momentary
vision of two pretty feet? Doubtful is it,
however, that if the loveliest of faces ever
seen on earth had been presented before the
young man's eyes in the ordinary intercourse
of life whether it would have raised any turmoil
whatever in his breast. The mysterious
is ever a great foster-mother in love. Those
blue-veined, snowy feet looked hardly fit to
tread the earth ; and what a clear, unruffled
heaven shone in those large grey eyes, which
regarded him so calmly when his rough,
coarse tread had awakened the sleeper. Dea
certe.

Pardon me, sir," said a voice close to
him, " but if, as I presume, you are Mr.
Langridge, I beg to say that I have been
sent to look for you. Mrs. and Miss Hazel-vol.

I. D

hurst, who drove to the station to fetch you,
have returned, and it is almost the time for
luncheon. Allow me to take your portmanteau."


Giving up his bag to the servant who thus
addressed him, Herbert followed mechanically.


'' Then it was not my cousin," he said to
himself, with a feeling of relief. " Of course
not; she is but a schoolgirl."

Left alone in the dressing-room to which
he had been shown, Herbert still saw the
figure sleeping under the chestnut trees.
It will never be forgotten ; but of course
I shall never see it again." He said "it,"
as though he were speaking of some phantasmagoria.
" It has spoilt me for all the rest
of womankind." A smile and a shrug accompanied
this muttered ejaculation. He
was young, and had seen so few women.
Those who have lived long in the world can
recall not one but half-a-dozen portraiture
indelibly photographed in their memories,
which have flitted by in the days gone by,
seen once, and never seen again.

A gentle knocking at the door snapped
the magic thread that he was spinning, and
kindly voices called upon his name.

My clear boy, are you ready ? *' " Cousin
Herbert ! luncheon."

Opening the door hastily, he was at once
locked in the arms of Mrs. Hazelhurst and
Helen.

How did you manage to evade us, you
bad boy ? " said his aunt, regarding him
fondly. " I know you hate driving, but still,
having luggage, you need not have run away
from us."

I did not dream, my dear aunt, that you
would have taken the trouble to meet me;
and I only carried my small portmanteau.
But, Helen, what is the matter with me that
you look at me with such amaze ? "

You have grown so big," answered
Helen, laughing and blushing.

'' And Helen, too, has grown ' big,' as she
calls it," said Herbert, smiling on his handsome
cousin.

Yes, she is almost a young woman in
appearance, is she not ? But come and have
some luncheon, you must be very hungry ;
and we are quite alone."

Quite alone," repeated Herbert to himself
as he offered his arm to his aunt.

Mrs. Hazelhurst was delighted to see her
nephew, and a warm glow of pride mantled

lier cheek as she beheld his fine manly form
and handsome face. She had been gratified
to hear of all that lie had achieved at College ;
but although the praises of his mother on
those accounts had been gratifying, jet his
personal appearance appealed more to Mrs.
Hazelhnrst than any honours won for his
learning, and she also, looking upon him and
her darling Helen as they stood side by side,
mentally ejaculated, whilst her eyes kindled,
They will, indeed, be a handsome couple,"
adding, however, "as handsome as they are
good."

It will be seen that Mrs. Hazelhurst was
rather given to matrimonial speculation.
She was a kindly woman, as has been before
remarked, and it was this very kindliness in
her nature that led her to dwell with so
much complacency upon the probable future
of two people in whom, after her own
daughter and nephew, she felt the greatest
interest. The happiness of the two dearest
ones assured, as it would undoubtedly be by
their union, what better than to assist with a
few amiable manipulations to secure that of
her old friend and the lady whom he so evidently
admired ? She thought that the difficulties
which she had foreseen from the learned

proclivities of both, were under her judicious
and dexterous handling disappearing, and
that at this moment both the professor and
the governess were as potter's clay, and only
required her clever moulding to figure as the
model couple of her imagination. Nor did it
ever occur to her that the difficulty after all
might lie not in Dr. Grantham's hesitancy,
but in the lady's reluctance, for she was slow
to recognize that there was some discrepancy
in the ages and appearance of the learned
and portly don, and her delicate-featured,
bright-haired governess.

You have come, Herbert, at the very
right time," said his aunt, as they sat down
to luncheon. '' We are likely to be quite
alone, and we are under no engagements, so
we shall have you all to ourselves, which will
be a great delight to Helen. Dr. Grantham,
with the Yicar and his wife, dine with us
tomorrow; and the latter are good old
friends of yours."

Are not the boys at home ? "

*' Not just now. The two younger are at
their uncle's, and as to Reginald — I should
think that Miss Myles is not within," she
said suddenly, looking across the table, as
she spoke, to a vacant seat. *' Do you know,

Helen, if it were her intention to go to the
Vicarage ? "

Miss Myles does not often confide to me
her intentions," replied Helen, laughing.

Herbert had noticed casually that the table
was laid for four, and once or twice he had
glanced towards the door, whenever it was
opened, for his thoughts were still wandering
away to the chestnuts and the wood-nymph.

I tell you what it is, Herbert," cried
Mrs. Hazelhurst, with emphasis, " you have
been working too hard, lad ; why, you are as
silent and abstracted as if you were going up
for an exam' tomorrow. What are you thinking
of, my dear boy ? Happily you will have
no brain-pressure now for some time to come.
By-the-bye, which way could you possibly
have taken that we missed you ? We were
late, certainly ; but we ought not to have
passed you had you come by the road."

I did not go by the road," he said, curtly,
and stooped down to caress a fine St. Bernard
dog which had just entered the room, and had
laid down by the side of his mistress.

'' What a splendid fellow this is, aunt.
Whence did you procure him ? "

When you have done twining your
fingers in his shaggy coat, Herbert, perhaps

you will let me have the pleasure of introducing
you to Miss Myles."

Raising his head at these words from his
aunt, Herbert found that the hitherto empty
chair was now occupied by a lady. Each
bowed in silence as Mrs. Hazelhurst fulfilled
the usual formalities : after discharofinsf which
she at once hastened to give her nephew the
whole history of the " splendid fellow " he
had admired.

Although as Miss Myles bent her head
there was not the faintest sign of any recognition
in her quiet smile, nor the slightest
flush in her cheek, yet as her eyes for one
moment met his there was no doubt In
Herbert's mind that his wood-nymph of two
hours since was before him, and actually
taking luncheon. Her name had jarred upon
him before he had raised his head at his
aunt's reminder that another lady had joined
them whilst he was caressing the dog. A
feeling of angry disappointment was now
predominant as he admitted to himself that
the wood-nymph, his dryad of the chestnuts,
and Miss Myles were one and the same
personification, and yet how different ! No
nymph, no dryad, met his covert gaze, but a
lady whose style of dress was scrupulously

heat, and almost formal in its entire absence
of ornament, and whose hair was drawn back
from her low broad brow with such rigorous
precision, as if an attempt on its side to
show any of Nature's crispin was a sin to
be strongly controlled. Was it possible that
that most decorous and thoughtful-looking
woman — for evidently she was more than a
girl — could be that charmingly-graceful embodiment
of poetry that had so stirred every
fibre in his frame ? Ah ! Helen's governess,
of course, he acknowledged pettishly.

As he listened, or pretended to listen, to
his aunt, a whirl of conflicting emotions
coursed through him ; but little by little he
found his irritation subsiding. The more
he pondered upon the fact that the two — his
nymph and Miss Myles — were one, the more
his interest began to be awakened in the
duality of impressions conveyed to his mind
by one individual. That which had before
been almost visionary, and when viewed by
his intellect almost an unreality, and only to
be approached through the imagination, was
now converted into a very real and sober fact
indeed. Gradually, however, his thoughts
became ri wetted upon this fact as represented
by Miss Myles, the governess. It was not

beauty now, nor charm of person that engrossed
him ; it was the something behind —
the something not to be perceived that made
him wonder. And whilst wondering, he
strove to recall the vision of the morning
wherewith to clothe the figure before him.

I shall be going to the Yicarage for
dinner, Mrs. Hazelhurst. Is there any
message that you would wish me to bear
to Mrs. Ashcroft ? "

The low, clear tones of the speaker fell
cold on Herbert's ears. Sweet and mellow
were they, in truth ; but how matter-of-fact
they sounded. As she thus spoke Miss
Myles rose to leave the room.

Nothing more than this, dear Miss Myles.
Tell them that Mr. Langridge has arrived,
and is going to give us the pleasure of his
company for several weeks."

Herbert Langridge had arisen from his
seat with the intention of opening the door,
but he hesitated somewhat confusedly; and
meanwhile Miss Myles had left the room and
had closed the door after her, herself.

Quite the governess, is she not ? " said
Mrs. Hazelhurst, turning with a smile to
Herbert ; but he saw not the smile, for, still
standing, he was gazing blankly at the closed

door by which a tall, slight figure, singularly
graceful in the rigid and Guido-like simplicity
of her attire, had just passed out.

Helen laughed outright.

What moves you so suddenly to laughter,
Helen ? You have been unusually quiet all
luncheon-time until now," said her mother.

*why, look at cousin Herbert, my dear
mother ! He is quite dazed — absolutely
frightened by my governess ! He has been
blushing and trembling ever since she came
in, as if he were afraid that she would at any
moment begin to question him about his
studies. I suppose, like most boys — I beg
your pardon, cousin — like most gentlemen,
he has a wholesome dread of Girtoners. You
see he dared not for his life open the door
for her. But I wonder how you knew that
she was a Girtoner, Herbert? Instinct, I
suppose. Now, Alas it not instinct ? "

*' Hush, Helen, do not talk such nonsense.
I can assure you, Herbert," said Mrs. Hazel-hurst,
coaxingly, as if to reassure him, *' that
when you have seen a little more of Miss
Myles you will like her very much ; she is
a superior person — a most superior person.
Well, Helen, laughing again ? "

Because, mother, a * most superior

person ' ought to be forty at least ; and dear
old Polly is not thirty by a long way. That
I am quite sure of."

Helen is incorrigible, and, I fear, utterly
spoilt. Do you not think so, Herbert ? "

But Herbert had not given a thought to
Helen, except to feel annoyed at the turn
the conversation had taken ; the words
'' Grirtoner," " superior person," " dear old
Polly," had severally and equally stung him.
He compressed his lips and was silent.

Of course," resumed Mrs. Hazelhurst,
persuasively, " you have only seen her for a
few minutes, scarcely looked at her, in fact,
otherwise you must have been taken with
her as everybody else always is after a little
time. She is considered ratter pretty, too,
by some people, particularly by gentlemen."

She is very pretty, mother, and a dear
old thing — that's settled — but why could not
Herbert and I walk with her to the Vicarage
this afternoon and make our call ? That
would be very nice."

I intend calling at the Vicarage tomorrow
morning," said Herbert, abruptly, and in a
dry tone.

Mrs. Hazelhurst, glancing at his heightened
colour, inwardly condemned his pride — for

such she deemed it — towards so superior a
person as Miss Myles, "but boys are all
alike " she thought.

'*If you will excuse me, dear aunt' he
said, in his usual equable voice, after mentally
shaking down his ruffled feathers, *' I
should like to write a few lines to my mother
that it may go by this night's mail. Where
shall I have the pleasure of rejoining you ? "

** You will find us, if not just outside here,
somewhere in the garden. Give both our
loves and our grateful thanks;" and Mrs.
Hazelhurst, nodding a kindly farewell, drew
Helen's arm within her own and led her into
the verandah.

So she, the wood-nymph, is the governess
here," said Herbert, half aloud, as weary and
somewhat chafed in mood he flung himself
into an easy chair. " * Girtoner,' 'superior
person,' ' dear old Polly.' " At each expression,
as he repeated them in half-suppressed
tones, he felt a deep shade of resentment
against the speaker, as the idol worshipper's
anger is aroused by a suggestion that his
idol is no divinity, but a mere clump of
wood. And then, after a long pause, his
irritation was aroused afresh by the name.

'* Miss Myles," he ejaculated, bitterly.

He was only a youth, and as that sound
spoken by himself jarred upon his excited
nerves he could almost have wept. But
these objections were soon to be swept away
by the force of his will. The same firm,
determined, almost dogged frame of mind
which never allowed him to loosen any grasp
which he had once laid upon any subject was
already asserting itself. The enthusiasm and
poetry of his nature, which had been hidden
away in his heart and kept hitherto in subjection,
was not suspected by his most
intimate associates; and as for his mother,
she had often laughed at him for the entire
absence of romance which his mental constitution
exhibited. A stern look came into
his eyes and he compressed his lips.

I shall like her when I know more of
her, shall I ? Be it so ; perhaps after all I
may find my wood-nymph again under the
pedantic disguise of the governess, and
then—"

He smiled. The very thought that here
there was a living book to be studied, and
some apparent discrepancies to be explained,
and one page brought into harmony with
another, pleased him. Mysteries have
peculiar charms for the young, especially

when they think that to them will be given the
unravelling of them. He sat down at the
table with cleared brow, and wrote an affectionate
letter to his mother to assure her of
his safe arrival. It was longer than the
occasion required. He dwelt very much
upon the warmth of his reception by his
aunt, and how delighted he was to find
them both looking so well. He even wrote
at length regarding Helen's beauty and
liveliness, and he did not forget to mention
that there was a splendid St. Bernard's dog,
and that the Vicar and his wife, as also Dr.
Grrantham, were coming upon the morrow
to dine, that the country was looking most
lovely ; but he said not a word of his
encounter with a wood-nymph nor his subsequent
disillusion, neither did he make
mention of Miss Myles, the governess.

Does it never occur that we, perhaps, live with people too
superior to be seen, as there are musical notes too high for the
scale of most ears ?

Emerson.

When Herbert Langridge joined his aunt and
cousin be was apparently, to use a homely
phrase, himself again, and Helen, who had
begun to think him completely changed from
her old champion and playmate, was soon
quite reconciled to his identity with his former
self, and trustful as to his capacity for being
as useful to her now as in the former days.

We'll have our first ride this afternoon,
an hour or two before dinner, Helen, if you
like," he said, blithely, " and I'll then see
what the fault really is in your pony — whether
it proceeds from radical ill-temper or radical
ill-treatment, which amounts to the same

thing ; that is if aunt will trust me with one
of her horses."

Oh, Herbert, I do not go in for spirited
horses; lean trust you with either of thera,and
either of them with you ; and as this is really
a whole holiday for Helen upon your account,
it is quite fitting that you and she should
inaugurate your visit by a ride together. You
will only find, I think, that her Sorrel shies a
little ; there is really nothing else the matter
with him. He shies when he sees anything
lying on the road that annoys him, the same
as Helen shies at her lessons when anything
particularly difficult annoys her."

But I never, never shy with dear old
Polly, mother."

Herbert rose from his seat and Mrs. Hazel-hurst
frowned at Helen.

What is the matter, my dear mother ?
Is she not a dear old Polly ? "

Anyone would think that you were speaking
of a parrot, cousin, and not of an educated
lady, as by all accounts Miss Myles appears
to be."

"How testy he seems to be about my
governess ! " thought Helen.

I am sorry I shall not see Reginald this
time," he said, anxious to change the subject.

Mrs. Hazelhursfc, desirous to smooth away
the " Polly " familiarity of Helen, thought
that she had found here her opportunity, and
remarked with emphasis —

Would you believe it that the lady of
whom Helen has thus spoken, actually prepared
Reginald for his matriculation — coached
him, as I believe you call it ? Miss Myles
was governess to the boys at the Vicarage
before she came here — you know they are
all boys there — and when Reginald came
from Rugby, where he did positively
nothing, he studied with her, and his subsequent
success, because he is not naturally
fond of study, the Vicar always says " is
entirely due to her, and sorry enough the
Ashcrofts were when she persisted in leaving
just before Reginald went up for his scholarship,
and equally glad, you may be sure, was
I to be able to acquire her services. The
other boys were then sent to Rugby. Mr.
and Mrs. Ashcroft are both very fond of her,
they seem to love her as dearly as if she were
their own daughter, but I think, although
it may seem absurd to say so, that Reginald
and she must have had some little tiff over
their readings together, for she makes a point
never to go over to the Vicarage when

VOL; I. B

he is at home, and be never calls here
either."

** Reginald is about a year older than
myself, I think ? "

Oh, yes, he is nearly two years your senior,
he is twenty-two, but really Herbert you look
the elder by several years."

Herbert Langridge made no remark ; he
was mentally calculating how old Reginald
Ashcroft would have been at the time of
the coaching. " Umph," he thought, "about
eighteen, and Miss Myles, who might, perhaps,
be five-and-twenty now, was then a girl in
her twenty-first year." A thrill of something-very
akin to jealousy coursed through him
as a picture was suddenly presented to him
of the fair-haired, good-looking Reginald
Ashcroft sitting day after day by the side of
his beautiful teacher and looking into her
limpid grey eyes ; perhaps occasionally whilst
passing a book he might accidentally touch
her hand, or, worse still, his awkward great
foot — (he remembered that Reginald had
large feet) — might blunder against —

*' Coached him," he growled.

"Well, he was but a boy, Herbert, and
you need not look so indignant, for nowadays,
since ladies take degrees, it is not considered

at all out of the way, really it is not," and
Mrs. Hazelhurst smiled at her nephew's look
of disapprobation.

Herbert at this moment bethought him of
the promised ride, and proposed that it should
no longer be adjourned, to which Helen gaily
assented.

Look ! look ! " cried Helen to her companion,
as the handsome pair cantered out
of a side lane into the open road. " Look,
there she is ; let us gallop after her."

Who do you mean ?" said Herbert, checking
his horse instead of obeying his cousin's
injunctions.

Why, Miss Myles. Do you not see her,
Herbert, there just in front ? Let us get upto
her before she reaches the stile; she
must cross that stile on the left in order to
go to the Yicarage. Whatever are you
stopping for, Herbert ? " she exclaimed,
impatiently.

To allow Miss Myles time to get over the
stile," and Herbert held in his horse and
waited.

Helen Hazelhurst held in her pony also, at
first laughing, but noticing the rigidly grave
face of her companion, she became herself on
the instant as serious as her lively tempera-university

OF
illinois Library

ment and her barely sixteen summers permitted.


'' How much longer are we to stay here ?
Miss Myles has disappeared over the stile
many minutes ago," she at last said to her
absorbed cousin.

They went on again in silence at a walking
pace, and passed the stile. Helen was a
little cross, and turned her head resolutely
the other way as they rode past the gap,
whilst her cousin, with a stolidly grave aspect,
looked straight along the road, and Mary
Myles, only a few yards distant, in happy
unconsciousness of their proximity, was
clambering up the side of the hedgerow,
and with childlike delight plucking profuse
clusters of travellers' joy wherewith to fill
the basket which hung upon her arm.

After a few moments of awkward silence,
Herbert Langridge devoted himself to his
cousin with so much assiduity that the girl's
spirits soon recovered their wonted exuberance.
Her merry laugh rang on the breeze
as her companion rallied her upon her spirited
and vicious pony, for Sorrel, as if he had
heard the injurious remarks which had been
made that morning upon himself, seemed
determined to justify himself by not shying

once for the benefit of Mr. Langridge, who,
looking upon his cousin's glowing face with
its Hebe-like youthful beauty, involuntarily
echoed his mother's opinion that Helen
promised to become one of the most lovely
of women. To this passing tribute of
admiration he joined his approval of her
as a horsewoman, for though Sorrel was not
calculated to draw much upon her equitant
resources, Herbert could not fail to observe
how light and erect was her carriage, whether
at the trot, canter, or gallop.

At dinner they were alone, as had been
previously arranged, and Mrs. HazeUiurst was
as much interested as her daughter at the
lively description her nephew gave of his life
at college, and, warming up under the encouragement
of two listeners, as attentive and
pleased as even his own dear mother ever was,
he entered with much ardour into all those
little personal details of his daily life which
have always a special charm to a man's
feminine belongings.

The poor boy was tired this morning,"
said Mrs. Hazelhurst to herself, as she
listened to him with beaming smiles ; "his
ride with Helen has already done him a world
of good."

Alone that night in his chamber the
thoughts of the young man rebounded with
tenfold force to the morning scene at the
chestnuts. It seemed so long ago ; luncheon
and dinner, and talk upon the most vapid of
subjects — for so he now deemed the conversation
which had given so much satisfaction to
his aunt and cousin — had all come between
that vision and the present moment. lie
opened his casement and looked out into the
clouded and silent night, but not even his
most ardent longings could pretend to seethe
tops of those chestnut trees for which his
eyes strained out into the darkness. The
wind blew damp-laden and chilly. Herbert
closed the casement, and sitting down began
deliberately to analyze those emotions which
were so novel and strange to him. Why was
he so disturbed? It was a pretty little
picture, that scene of the morning — a charming
idyll, as he had repeated to himself over
and over again — but it was past, and had
lapsed into a very prosaic reality. He
laughed a little satiric laugh as he recalled
his nymph transformed into a governess of
an astonishingly staid demeanour. Had he
met her for the first time at luncheon would
she now have occupied his thoughts ? Would

he not have listened placidly to his aunt's
commendations of her worth, and laughed
perhaps at his cousin's sallies, and afterwards,
at this very moment, would he not have forgotten
that such a person as Mary Myles
existed ? And yet, merely because of the evanescent
situation which had clothed her with
so much romance and beauty — because of
that only — was he impelled to this continual
absorption of his thoughts upon one who was
only as an actor in a little drama. It was
very strange, he repeated, that this Miss
Myles should continue to haunt his memory.
Herbert Langridge had been a thoughtful
and a hard-working youth ; he had neVer
been betrayed into any frivolities, and he had
sometimes, when questioning himself as to
whether his college companions were right in
their estimate of his character, been almost
compelled to confess that he was deficient in
the graces of life — had no poetry in his constitution.
This recent experience was, on the
whole, not an unwelcome revelation. He was
glad to find that he had a being that was
capable of responding to the calls of the
imagination or the fancy, and that he was nota
mere machine for intellectual work alone.
There is no fear that I shall ever be carried

away by impulse; the danger was of a different
nature. I shall see her again tomorrow, and
possibly I may have some conversation with
her, and perhaps I may be able to unravel
which is her real and which her assumed
character, unless she turns out to be a specimen
of duality, but anyhow, it was a pretty
picture not easily forgotten." And Herbert,
who had just been congratulating himself
upon the discovery of a romantic vein in his
being, seemed suddenly to return to his
ordinary methods of thought, and threw
himself down to sleep with a light and
careless mood, and not once did dream of
hamadryad or nymph come to disturb his
repose.

And whilst Herbert had apparently just
made up his mind to subject Miss Myles to
an analysis upon the very first opportunity,
she, at not much more than a hundred yards
distance, was disquieting herself about the
loss of a book. Where was her dear-loved
Rossetti ? She had been searching for it 
hour or more, but it was not to be found.
Had she left it on the bank beneath the chestnuts
when she was startled out of her foolish
slumber at noonday ? Dissatisfied and annoyed
as she was at the whole of that episode of the

morning, it was not without a smile that she
now recalled it.

A discreet young man," she said, as she
remembered the bow with no show of recognition
in his countenance when Mrs. Hazel-hurst
introduced her, '' and he will find me
discreet enough in the future, but I must go
and seek my Eossetti at the chestnuts sometime
tomorrow."

Dr. Grantham at the same time was sitting
in his well-appointed library. It was a fine
room, with good old carved oak panelling
and choice heraldic escutcheons, for Dr.
Orantham was proud of his ancestry and
had a secret joy in beholding these silent
memorials of his race in the many hours
which he passed in this room alone, but not
lonely. Notwithstanding that a large china
bowl on a table, filled to the brim with
gorgeous roses, testified to its being summer's
prime, yet on the wide hearth logs were
crackling as they lay athwart the worked
iron dogs, and a cloud of sparks were flying
up the broad chimney. No matter how hotly
burned the July's sun, when once it had
dipped to the horizon the fire was bade to
flame in this beloved library. Although this
custom was by many deemed injudicious as

being prejudicial to his volumes, yet in
appearance nothing could be more enjoyable
than this. The magnificent array of the best
books of every age, which is the most soul-contenting
and most perfect decoration any
room can have, was not here alone. The
ruddy light gleamed upon some choice specimens
of armour on the walls. There were a
few original and valuable paintings, chiefly
portraits, and here and there, only sparsely
introduced, some vases for the sake of colour.
The Indian carpet was thick and soft, the
chairs were very easy. Altogether the on-look
was one of quiet, almost luxurious
repose, where the solid aspects of comfort
there presented suggested that study in those
precincts would bring no weariness to the-bones,
and the unbidden thought would often
arise in the breast of a studious friend when
looking around that not here — not with these
surroundings — did Dr. Grantham earn his
reputation for learning.

No, truly this was a sanctuary of rest after
work. Dr. Grantham had been a worker.
He was now in the fulness of his fifty-five
years resting from his labours. Everything
spoke of wealth in the widest, the broadest

sense, in which the word is capable of being
applied.

Dr. Grantham was neither reading nor
writing. He never read now after ten p.m.,
and the midnight lamp that for many years
had seen him poring assiduously over many
a massive volume now only glimmered faintly
on most nights to witness his disrobing. Dr.
Grantham was, however, deep in thought.
He was weighing with logical precision the
advantages and possible disadvantages that
might accrue from a measure which had of
late occupied much more of his attention than
his books, and which this night had reached
almost to a firm and settled resolve.

Anyhow," he said, " I shall see her again
tomorrow, and then I suppose I shall at last
arrive at a final determination — whether it is
to be yea or nay," and Dr. Grantham, as he took
up his lamp to retire for the night, smiled as
if quite content with the result either way,
and, as he closed the door of his library,,
murmured softly to himself, *' Nausikaa."

I met a lady in the meads
Full beautiful.

Keats.

Mrs. Hazelhurst and her nephew breakfasted
alone, and lingered long over the meal,
the aunt being that morning an attentive and
eager listener, whilst the young man recounted
again his college experiences, mingled
with affectionate discourse about his mother,
whom Mrs. Hazelhurst tenderly loved, for
between the step-sisters there had never
existed aught but mutual confidence and
warm regard. Mrs. Langridge had been left
a widow early, but notwithstanding that her
youth, her great personal attractions, and
her absolute power over her small property,
with but one child, and that a boy, had
drawn many most eligible offers of marriage.

she had rejected every proposal with the
utmost decision, and had devoted her whole
future life, herself, and her all to her child
and his education. Full of pride in the
growing boy and his manifest intelligence, she
nursed anew in secret joy all those ambitious
dreams which the death of her husband had
so prematurely annihilated. Year by year
her hopes in a second brighter future seemed
to be justified — a future in which she was
still to reign and to be the most prominent
figure. Without any hesitation she destined
her little son from the first to the Bar ; that
he would make a career such as had opened
out before his father she never doubted.
"It will be the same name," she would say,
'rand in his success all the sad past and
my widowed youth will be obliterated." Asher
loving eyes in these later years had
dwelt with fond pride upon a face and figure
which brought vividly before her the great
loss of her girlhood, a thought not altogether
cloudless would arise side by side with those
which made her cheeks glow with delight.
She was a haughty, jealous-minded woman
notwithstanding her capabilities for devoted
love. With no very pleasurable feelings,
therefore, did she regard that event which,

happening sooner or later, would sap her
sovereignty, and would relegate her to a
second place in her son's heart. He would
marry, of course; she would not wish it
otherwise, but already she looked forward to
that event with dread. To abdicate her
legitimate influence when her Herbert had
achieved a brilliant position through her long
sacrifice, and to surrender all to some young
and scornful beauty who would resent any
prolongation of the mother's rightful sway,
was hardly to be borne even in thought.
For this reason she had inclined to and
fostered her sister's project of a union between
their children. Helen would bring at
least the affection of a niece, accustomed from
childhood to regard her aunt with reverence.
She would not appear to her in any changed
light when she became her mother-in-law.
Helen would have a large fortune of her own,
being, in fact, almost an heiress, and she had
not a grain of imperiousness nor self-seeking
in her character, which Mrs. Langridge saw
would be most desirable in her daughter-in-law
; moreover, she was bright, intelligent,
and promised to be very handsome ; and so
summing up the personal qualifications of the
boy and girl who were thus disposed of by

their parents, Mrs. Langridge herself thought
*' The will be a handsome couple."

As she dwelt upon this theme her heart
would soften, and tears would come into her
eyes as she recalled the very handsome
couple of some twenty years since, one of
whom for nineteen long years had lain in the
grave of his forefathers in Kingston churchyard.
This aforethought of marriage was,
however, never hinted at to the two most
nearly concerned.

The two mothers had wisely determined to
keep it a secret, and to manage that the
young people should meet just often enough
to inspire a growing appreciation of each
other, but not enough to dull the possibility
of love by familiar intercourse. Neither Mrs.
Hazelhurst nor Mrs. Langridge contemplated
coercing their children's affections even by
the counsel of words, but they had a strong
belief that they would be able to manage
matters so skilfully that when the hour came
the desired affection would spring up
spontaneously.

Your Helen is growing very lovely," Mrs.
Langridge would sometimes say to her sister,
*' but beautiful things when constantly before
us lose their power of charming. My

boy must not be distracted from his career
by any precocious falling in love, or, what
would be still more pernicious to our views, a
boy and girl flirtation, which undermines
everything that is lofty in the character. For
this reason I cannot allow Herbert to go very
often to Sunnyside."

These words Mrs. Langridge had written
to her step-sister in the letter which had
announced that Herbert, after an interval of
four years, was to be permitted to visit his
aunt and cousin at last.

Mrs. Hazelhurst coloured with momentary
annoyance as she read those words, and in
her answer remarked, '' You forget, dear
Elinor, that Helen is still in the schoolroom.
When Herbert came last I think she had only
just left the nursery. If a gap of four years
is always to intervene between these visits I
think it is just possible that in the interim,
something may occur for which neither yourself
nor I am prepared. I quite agree with
you that it is quite as well that they should
not be too much together whilst they are so
young, but still I can hardly think that a
week once or twice in every year would be
dangerous to either;" but Mrs. Hazelhurst
was of a more pliant and yielding nature

than her sister, and she received with
wonderful gratitude the precious boon so
long sought and so tardily given of this
present visit of her nephew.

Now, Herbert," said Mrs. Hazelhurst,
'' I give you entire freedom to-day. Helen
is at her studies, and I have some business
to transact with the school and cottages ;
so perhaps you will like to go over to the
Vicarage to luncheon, only remembering that
our dinner hour is seven, and that Dr. Grantham
dines with us to-day as well as Mr. and
Mrs. Ashcroft."

•' Thank you very much, my dear aunt ;
I shall enjoy exceedingly a chat with the good
Yicar and his kind wife. They will find me a
little changed since I was here before, but I
suppose they are just the same hospitable,
indulgent pair now as then. I do think it
was a good thing for Reginald when — " but
suddenly interrupting himself he added, " I
shall take a stroll afterwards, aunt, and seek
out all my old haunts, but I shall be sure
to be punctual for dinner, because of the
portentous Dr. Grantham, who I hear from
Helen is always served to a quarter of a
second."

The Vicar had taken his degree at St.

VOL. I. F

John's, so the two Oxford men had much to
compare and talk about. Themes of much
grave interest to each other made brilliant
by lively anecdote, were mingled with those
mutual experiences between which lay a gap
of some thirty years.

I feel, dear Mrs. Ashcroft," said Herbert,
at last taking advantage of a slight
pause, " that I have been very selfish in
absorbing all the conversation ; but although
I have done so in outward seeming, my inner
thoughts have all the time not been quite
withdrawn from yourself. That could hardly
be, when my eyes were constantly dwelling
upon your tasteful grouping of the lovely
wild flowers and grasses with which your
table is so profusely decorated."

You must not give me the credit of that,
Herbert. That has all been done by Miss
Myles, who is always bringing us baskets of
her own gathering. Of course at your aunt's
there is a regular staff of gardeners, and
plenty of choice flowers, so that the artistic
talent which she undoubtedly possesses for
arranging a table has no scope there, for I
believe that Mr. Stevenson, the head gardener,
after the manner of his race, would
greatly resent any interference, as he would

call it, with his own floral designs, and
which, between ourselves, I presume to
characterize as stiff and formal."

** What a sweet woman she is, is she
not?" said the Vicar, suddenly turning to
Herbert.

A thought similar to la veuve Scarron
again, rushed to Herbert's mind, but he
merely said — ■

"I have hardly spoken to Miss Myles as
yet."

Then there is a poem that you have not
read ! " cried the Vicar.

It had been Herbert Langridge's intention
upon leaving the Vicarage to have taken a
long walk far into the country, but instead of
following out his morning resolution he wandered
slowly homewards, but, strange to say,
in the direction of the chestnuts. Praise
when genuine, and when bestowed with no
latent motive, is a pleasing corroborative of
the justice of one's choice in love.

Poor Mrs. Ashcroft, and the Vicar, in his
usual rather exalted phraseology, had no
suspicion how deep their words had sunk
into their young guest's heart. Annoyed
with himself at finding that the name of his

cousin's governess agitated him at the very-time
when he thought he had schooled himself
into indifference, he walked through the
long grass he had strode over the day
before, with feelings, however, quite the
reverse to those which his wood-nymph had
inspired. Then he was bright and joyous as
one who has just looked on beauty as seen in
some passing vision; now he was troubled.
The vision had become a reality, and he was
angry and impatient, for the truth forced
itself upon him that he was in love.

He was on that same spot again. A thousand
flowers since yesterday seemed to have
rushed into existence, so quickly does life
burst into bloom in warm July. The ground
was sown thick with delicate harebells, and
he knew that at every step the tender little
blossoms were trodden under his feet.

She loves these pretty wildings," he said,
and subdued by their influence he stooped
and gathered a bunch, when the sight of a
book lying on the grass arrested his attention.
He knew at once that it had been dropped by
her, and he hastily picked it up. '' Rossetti's
Poems." Herbert had never read a line of
Eossetti, and, in fact, knew very little of any
English poet. The book opened at "The

Blessed Damsel," the place being marked by
a letter — a letter not enclosed in an envelope,
and evidently not of recent date. Herbert
quickly closed the book, but not before two
or three words of the most impassioned
nature had caught his eye. " My own dear
girl, my Amy, my glorious one, my darling ! "
Herbert closed the book hastily, and his
cheek paled. The blurred handwriting of
those few words was not in the left to right
characters affected by his old playmate, whose
name yesterday, in conjunction with the lady
who had successfully coached him, had caused
for a moment or two such a thrill of jealous
pain. He would not give one other glance to
certify himself upon that point. The book
should be sacred for him ; but as he clutched
the volume tightly he stood rooted to the
spot. One more look — one only look — to
recall all the scene of yesterday, which would
henceforth be but a pleasing memory — a picture
photographed in his soul. He would
give the volume into her own hands, and
then — why, then he would avoid her as much
as possible during his stay at his aunt's, and
he would limit his visit to two weeks only.
The lady was too attractive not to have had
and then recoiling with innate delicacy

from the half-formed thought, he suddenly
checked the rising words with indignation at
himself.

As he stooped to pick up the book he
had let fall his handful of harebells. They
were lying almost on the same turf where
those little white feet had lain yesterday.
He knelt down and gathered them all carefully
up, and as he rose he was about to
thrust them into his vest, when he heard a
light, quick step coming from behind the
trees, and turning round Miss Myles stood
before him.

In her simple blue cotton gown, merely
confined at the waist with a ribbon, and her
plain straw hat, with cheeks glowing from
exercise, and her hair blown across her brow,
Miss Myles had no trace of precision in her
appearance.

For a few seconds they both regarded
each other in silence, whilst a flush as deep
as that which the warm sun and her hasty
pace had spread over the face of Mary Myles
mounted to the very roots of Herbert's crisp,
curly hair. The first who spoke was Miss
Myles.

"I came to look for a book, Mr. Langridge,"
she said, almost timidly, as if some

excuse was actually needed for being on that
spot, and with a blush that heightened her
colour still more.

I had only just found it, Miss Myles,
and — and — I thought it must be yours,"
stammered Herbert.

Mary took it from his extended hand.
Neither had greeted the other. Herbert,
with book in one hand and his harebells in
the other, had not been able even to raise his
hat — if he had remembered to do so, which
he did not.

'* It only wants half-an-hour or a little
more to dinner-time, and that is why I am in
this state. I actually scampered here," said
Mary, apologetically. " You must excuse
it."

The unaffected almost girlishness of her
manner reassured Herbert, and he smiled ashe
said —

What have I to excuse. Miss Myles ? "

*' My untutored and blowed appearance,"
she said ; " but another night in the dews
would have spoilt my ' Rossetti,' so I ran
almost all the way, and now I must hasten
back. Good afternoon, Mr. Langridge, and
I thank you very much."

When Mary smiled every feature was

irradiated, and lie smiled as she uttered
those words.

I, also, must return at once, Miss Myles,
and unless you wish to run very fast back,
and I am quite unable to keep up with
you, we will walk to the house together if
you will allow me to accompany you ? "

A laugh, a bright natural laugh, was the
answer.

With a graceful inclination of the head,
she added —

I shall not run a race with you, Mr.
Langridge."

Permit me to have the honour of carrying
your beloved ' Eossetti.' "

'' Thank you ; stay," she said, withholding
it for a moment, and opening it she took out
the faded letter and placed it carefully in the
folds of her gown quite unconscious of the
change that passed over the face of her companion.


Drawing her hat over her eyes with both
her unloved hands, she said —

Although we are not intending to run a
race, Mr. Langridge, we must walk quickly."

*' Do you like ' Rossetti,' Mr. Langridge ? "
she asked, after they had gone on a few yards
side by side without speaking.

I never read a line of his."

You have never read ' The Blessed
Damsel ? ' "

I never even heard of the young lady,"
he answered, smiling.

Do not laugh, Mr. Langridge."

Why, is it so very serious ? " said
Herbert.

You are not a jester as most of the young
men of to-day are, and you will find no matter
for jesting in ' The Blessed Damsel.' 1 will
repeat just the first lines — if you do not mind,
and then — if you laugh — "

"What then?"

Why, then I have misjudged you, that is
all," she said, gravely. " But listen," and she
-stopped —

The blessed damsel leaned out

From the gold bar of Heaven ;
Her eyes were deeper than the depth

Of waters stilled at even ;
She had three lilies in her hand,

And the stars in her hair were seven.

Her robe ungirt from clasp to hem,

No wrought flowers did adorn,

But a white rose of Mary's gift, — "

She paused.

Go on, go on," cried Herbert, and his
looks were fixed with rapture on her face.

But she saw it not, or if she saw it, she
thought it was all due to " Rossetti," and as
she repeated the verses that followed, her
voice, which was at once clear and mellow,
seemed to vibrate in unison with the poet's
mystic feelings, till she came to the words —

And the souls mounting up to God
Went by her like thin flames."

I can no more, I can no more," she broke
in with, scarcely above her breath, as she
stopped suddenly in her recital, and stood
motionless before him, whilst Herbert found
no words to say, for he saw that her eyes
were filled with tears.

We have forgotten all about the time'*
she resumed, after the pause of a few seconds,
so I think that if you will excuse me, Mr.
Langridge, I will run down this side path,
which is a shorter way to the house, past the
servants' offices."

Herbert took this for a dismissal.

Will you accept these harebells. Miss
Myles ? " he said, hesitatingly, as he gave her
book into her hand.

*' But did you not gather them for yourself,
Mr. Langridge ? " she asked, looking at
him from under her hat.

I was not thinking of myself when I
gathered them."

"But you did not gather them for me'*
she said, quite innocently.

I was thinking of you when I gathered
them," he answered, faltering as he spoke.

A deeper gravity came over her, the natural
unconscious manner fled in an instant. With
the self-possession and reticent demeanour
of Miss Myles the governess, she bowed.

You are very kind, Mr. Langridge," she
said, very quietly'* and I thank you for them;
they are favourite flowers of mine," and she
turned down the side path, but she did not
run, but walked rather slowly away.

*' Only a quarter of an hour to dress in*'
she cried, as she threw herself into a chair
upon reaching her dressing room ; " not a
second of time to waste upon this refractory
hair to bring it into subjection, so it must
have its own way for once." It was with
something like a glance of approval that
with a few touches of the comb she left it
to its own natural ripples. She had laid out
a sober grey silk gown to wear; she now
looked from that to the harebells. "Wo,
they will not go well together," she said.

decisively, " and these harebells I must wear
thinking of me when he plucked them —
another boy ! *' and the thoughts of the
governess went back for a moment to her
former pupil — fair-haired Eeginald Ashcroft.

Miss Myles coming forth from her room
met Helen Hazelhurst running towards her,
holding in her hand a choice spray of stephanotis.
Helen stopped suddenly.

Why, you dear old Polly, how beautiful
you look ! I plucked the loveliest cluster I
could find with my own hands, despite Stevenson
and his grim face. I thought stephanotis
would go so well with your dark grey silk,
but as you are, you are superb."

Put your precious flowers in some water,
and leave them in my room, darling. I will
wear them tomorrow."

Helen stood on [the top of the staircase
and watched her as her white filmy gown of
fine Indian muslin floated down the stairs.

Bluebells," she said to herself — " bluebells
! Then does she actually mean to take
old Dr. Grantham ? "

What private heavens can we not open by yielding to all the
suggestions of rich music !

Emerson.

As Dr. Grantham led Miss Myles in to dinner
he felt a proud and happy man. His look of
pleased surprise at the radiant appearance of
the governess as she entered the drawing-room
had been shared by each member of
the group therein assembled. How charming
was the contrast made by the bunch of blue
harebells with those masses of curly bright
brown hair which to-day had not been
brought into the subjection of tightly compressed
braids ! And was it the consciousness
that she looked well in a garb less severe
than usual that had brought that delicate
glow into her usually rather pale but clear
cheek ? Possibly, for Mary was but a mortal

woman after all. If beauty cannot altogether
be obscured by the vagaries of fashion, it
can undoubtedly be greatly enhanced by
graceful combinations of colour and form,
where Art, in all its true simplicity, reigns
supreme. Mary Myles's gown of soft, creamy
Indian muslin, both in the extreme fineness
of its texture, and in the folds which seemed
to fall at once as an artist would have wished
to arrange them, was the very perfection of
Art — yet of Guido's.

The artistic instinct, like the poetic, is
intuitive. Mary Myles had both, but they
were not brought forward to be paraded.
She held them back rather with so tight a
rein that no one had any ken of the little
flame that burnt so steadfastly in the inner
recesses of her being — a veritable spark,
nevertheless, from the divine fire of inspiration.
Alas ! life here is so short that not one
fraction of the powers lent to us can be
perfected before the material frame begins to
crumble away, and the final development
must necessarily be adjourned to another
state of existence. Mary Myles was considered
to be a learned lady, a lady who was
versed in classic lore — but who had taste,
and there it ended; who, whether man or

woman, had ever looked into that holy of
holies of her deeper nature before which hung
the heavy veil of her restrained personality ?
How swiftly did the mere clothing of the
woman at his side sweep far away all the
professor's intentions of carefully sounding
the mind of the governess before he committed
himself to a proposal. His fifty-five
years did not blind him to the fact that in
the matrimonial market he was very eligible.
No man, however diffident, who happens to
possess wealth or social position, can be long
unconscious of the rather painful truth that
there are always a number of fair young girls
quite willing to ally themselves with men of
fifty or sixty, or even with such who are
beyond that borderland of old age, who can
offer homes of luxurious ease. JN'ot a high
type of feminine character truly, but nevertheless
in the majority of cases fulfilling with
sufficient decorum the position acquired by
selfish calculations. Dr. Grantham, however,
was not a man who could be content to sacrifice
his liberty for such negations. He had
lived long enough alone to be able to value
to the full his literary treasures, and the
peace by which he was able to enjoy them.
If a mistress were brought to Braemar she

must be able to sympathize with bis pursuits
; be bad no idea of giving up a certain
good for an uncertain advantage ; the lady
must therefore bave a cultivated mind. But
that was only one item, and not the chief.
A woman without grace and beauty, bad sbe
been as wise as Atbene, would be as the
waters of Mara to bim. And, above all,
sbe mush be able to satisfy the longings of
bis heart ; for Dr. Grantbam bad strong affections,
and shuddered at the bare suggestion
of himself being part of a plan of expediency.
Tbe extreme caution wbicb this habit of
mind engendered, bad counteracted the effect
of that strong admiration wbicb only one
woman bad ever aroused in bim, and checked,
tbougb with no small cost, the first strong
impulses wbicb one look from ber bad
awakened. He bad torn himself away from
that presence, but bad never forgotten it,
and often in the library of Brae mar that
graceful figure with uplifted arms came between
bim and the classic page before bim.

And be bad met ber again in far less
romantic surroundings, and for a long time
was pained and sorry that the poetic figure
was gone, and that only Mary Myles, the
governess, was left to bim after all ibis

dreams. Mary Myles, and Nausikaa no
more. Then slowly he woke to the fact that
this Mary Myles was most gifted, most truthful,
and most fair, although she no longer
brought back the image of King Albinus'
daughter ; but was she not as cold as that
Athene of whom she now reminded him ?
Silent and calm as a statue, when it was his
chance to be in her company, how could he
contemplate life with so unmoved a companion
at his side ? His books would then
be more eloquent and heart-satisfying.

Sometimes a momentary flash of a quickly
passing emotion led the observant scholar to
suspect that this outer calmness was not the
whole nature, and then he would muse over
a possibility that sometimes dawned in consequence.
He had seen a radiant look of
affection rest upon her pupil. If, then, there
was a spring of love hidden away, and if it
were placid water on the surface only, could
it be possible that that self-enclosed heart
could be touched by him ? At this sometime
thought Dr. Grantham would feel his brain
whirl, and a strange sensation at his heart.
His caution would, however, bring him back
to more sobered thoughts ; he must not ask
too much. A gentle ray of love would suffice

VOL. I. G

to light up and cheer the autumn of his days.
He musc not, dare not, seek for that passionate
devotion which is due to youth alone.
A man of his age ought to shrink from the
turmoils of the divine passion ; but yet he
must be assured that some flicker of love
could be kindled for him in that quiet breast,
or Mary Myles was not for him. He would
make some test by which to gauge her feelings
towards him, and if it failed — well,
there would be grief and disappointment, but
he had his library.

And what was the test that was to disclose
the mind of Mary Myles ? Dr. Grantham,
like many learned men, was childlike in
his simplicity in many respects. He knew
that Miss Myles had a sweet, mellow voice,
and sang with taste, but hitherto he had only
heard her sing classical music of a severe
type.

He would ask her this evening to sing
'' The Blue Bells of Scotland."

The woman to whom this test is to be
applied is on his arm, her soft muslin skirts
are almost clinging to him ; the room seems
to whirl around, a sudden giddiness seizes
him, and the arm upon which her hand
lightly rests is trembling, for he sees for the

first time that she wears at her throat a
bunch of harebells.

Are you unwell, Dr. Grantham ? " said a
soft voice, as she raised her eyes and looked
at him.

"Quite well, quite well; forgive me,"
he whispered hurriedly, as with his other
hand he drew hers tenderly farther on his
arm.

They took their places in silence, and if,
as Mary thought, Dr. Grantham had felt a
momentary indisposition (possibly, as she
surmised, from over-study the night before),
it seemed to vanish immediately after a slight
draught of hock which he took at the earliest
opportunity.

Miss Myles," he said, lowering his voice,
whilst he regarded her with a look of deep
emotion, '' I love my country, and the little
flower that you are wearing is dearer to me
than the choicest flowers of the conservatory.
It is a singular coincidence," and his voice
trembled, 'but I had intended to ask of you
this evening a great favour in connection
with that little cluster of memories from my
native heaths."

Dear old man," thought Miss Myles, ashe
paused. " There is no favour Dr. Grantham

can ask that I will not grant," she said,
softly.

'' Is not that rather a rash speech, Miss
Myles ? " and his voice sank almost to a
whisper.

*' Not to Dr. Grantham," she answered,
and smiled.

Well, then, I was intending to ask you
to sing to me ' The Blue Bells of Scotland,'
that is all."

I will sing that, and any other Scotch
song you like ; I think I know them almost
all."

Dr. Grantham looked at her fixedly. She
was unconscious of his searching glance as
at that moment the Vicar had addressed her.
Dr. Grantham was satisfied. For a moment
he had thought this unusual frankness was
not natural, but her ingenuousness was apparent.


Have you ever been in Scotland, Miss
Myles?"

Never, Dr. Grantham ; I am longing to

go."

You shall not long much longer," said

Dr. Grantham to himself.

*'Dr. Grantham," cried the Vicar, good-humouredly,

" we cannot let you absorb Miss

Myles entirely, nor can we allow you to be
absorbed by her. I have been wanting to
address some observations to you for the
last ten minutes, but your head, like the sunflower's,
has always been turned to its god**

Mr. Ash croft was not witty, but he thought
he had some gift that way ; and Dr. Grantham,
who at this moment was exceedingly
elated, smiled as he bowed and said —

I am entirely at your service, my dear
friend."

Dr. G-rantham now engaging in a conversation
with the Yicar left Mary free. She
looked across the table to where Herbert
Langridge, who had taken in Mrs. Ashcroft,
sat, and their eyes met. The expression in
them, and also in that of the whole frank and
manly face that was fully turned upon hers,
startled her, and the remembrance that it
was he who had given her the harebells that
she was wearing suddenly flashed upon her,
and simultaneously she recalled his words :
I was thinking of you when I gathered
them."

All the low-voiced, tender allusions of Dr.
Grantham to the flower had fallen upon her
ears unheeded. It was quite natural that
he — a Scotchman — should have an affection

for the bonny little bloom; but the face
opposite told another tale. Mary tried to
look quite cold and indifferent as her eyes
slowly wandered from that ardent gaze to
the meek face of Mrs. Ashcroft; but try as
much as she might to appear abstracted she
felt the unwonted indications which presage
what is called blushing. Nothing can repress
the tell-tale blood when it once begins to
surge. Mary's lip curled as if in proud indignation
at herself. She held her head
erect, and commanded her eyes to be steadfast
and not weakly droop their lids, whilst
her whole cheek and forehead were suffused
with a crimson glow. Her haughty attitude
endeavoured to express how utterly she repudiated
this action of her blood. What
cause had she to blush — to show such weakness,
she who was so strong, who was mistress
of herself?

Mrs. Hazelhurst saw it with much complacency,
and interpreting it after her own
fashion smiled discreetly to Mrs. Ashcroft.
Herbert Langridge saw it, and his own face
reflected a still deeper flush; but it was unobserved,
as he took that opportunity to
stoop down and pick up a flower which had
fallen.

"When Dr. Grantham turned again to address
an observation to Miss Myles he did
not fail to observe the irradiation and unusual
expression of her face ; and the heart
of the old man gave a sudden lunge.

The conversation now becoming general
upon the light topics of the day, and upon
matters of local interest, Mary was able by
degrees to lapse into her usual quiet attitude,
and no observation being expected from her
she became silent, according to her wont,
and shortly after the ladies retired.

'' A song without words," said the Yicar,
as the door closed on Mary's filmy gown.

He addressed this remark to Dr. Grantham,
who replied, slowly —

*' Yes : but words which are without song,
without melody or harmony, are the harshest
discords."

When you were down here before, Herbert,
W£S not Miss Myles cc aching my
boy?"

"T never saw Miss Myles until yesterday."

*then how long is it since you were here,
Herbert''

Somewhere about four years and nine
months."

Ah ! then Miss Myles came to us about

three months after that. We had only engaged
her to teach the youngsters, but it
struck me after a week or two that Reginald
would get on better with her than with me,
for lie did nothing at Rugby — a lazy fellow —
as you know. Well, Miss Myles worked
nothing less than a miracle with the boy ;
but she would not stay with us after he went
up for the scholarship. Yes, she was the
making of him, turned him from idleness
and love of ease into a real man, with high
thoughts and aims. I shall never cease to
honour and respect her ; and she wgs but a
mere girl. So much for Girton, say L''

'' Dr. Grantham," said the Vicar, turning
to him, "you remember Riviere's picture of
Circe?" I

'ado. What of it?"

«« Why, I always couple my remembrance
of the figure of Circe in that picture with
Miss Myles."

My good friend, that is surely not meant
for a compliment ? "

"Yes, it is. I think the artist was most
skilful in representing Circe as a simple girl
clad in a white robe — power veiled under
simplicity."

Merciful heavens ! Ashcroft, do you. reverence

a power which can convert men into
swine?"

Ah ! that is what I want to prove. The
men were already swine — swinish in heart
and desires. Circe only showed them as
they were; called out the concealed
swinishness for their discomfiture."

'' Heaven preserve us all from such Circles,
however simply clad, say I," said Dr. Grantham,
energetically.

"I think I should like a stroll in the
garden before joining the ladies, if you will
kindly excuse me," said the young man,
rising.

Certainly, certainly ; we shall not ourselves
be long away from the ladies, shall we,
doctor ? " said the Yicar, gaily. " Entrance
puer," added Mr. Ashcroft, looking after
Herbert.

Dr. Grantham, to whom this quotation
was addressed almost as a question, which
asked for an affirmative response, hardly
heard it. He had just perceived that the
harebells which Miss Myles had worn had
either been laid aside by her, and were left
purposely on the table, or that they had fallen
down accidentally as she rose.

The bonny things are drooping, sadly

drooping ; but I will take them to her*' he
said to himself, and he carefully placed them
in his coat.

Had the Yicar taken as much pleasure in
the "bonny flowers" as Dr. Grantham he
would have noticed that the doctor's fingers
trembled violently as he was placing them in
his button-hole, but Mr. Ashcroft's eyes were
following Herbert Langridge crossing the
lawn.

Quo pulchrior alter
Non fait ^neadum,"

said the Yicar.

Dr. Grantham having succeeded in fastening
in the bluebells, turned his eyes in
obedience to Mr. Ashcroft's gesture, and
nodded assent with a smile.

Dr. Grantham, like all great scholars,
never quoted the Greek and Latin authors
so familiar to him. The habit of verbal
quotation seldom, in fact, goes with deep
scholarship. Boys fresh from successful
examinations sometimes disport themselves
in that way, often to the great delectation of
their parents and sisters. Happily it has
not yet been alleged that the women and
girls who have distinguished themselves in

the classics have made themselves obnoxious
that way.

Singular it was that only when in the
society of the great classic, Dr. Grantham,
did Mr. Ashcroft indulge in that harmless
recreation, and then his quotations were
always confined to the book pre-eminently
associated with his schoolboy days.

And Herbert Langridge still wandered
among the garden paths and alleys, although
the twilight shades had gathered around
him, and although she whom he thought
fairest among women, and who was wearing
at her bosom his gift of flowers, was in the
drawing-room. Why did he not hasten to
her side, and whisper his grateful appreciation
? And she was singing in a full rich
voice of rare truth of intonation, and possessing
in a high degree the quality called sympathetic.
Sometimes he drew near to the
open window to listen ; he could not see her,
he did not wish to see her. Some very lovely
faces are often so marred by their expression
whilst singing, and he did not wish to run
the risk of such a disillusion as might take
place if he looked upon the songstress. He
need not to have feared, the countenance of

Mars Myles when she gave herself up to
song — and what she sung was always either
solemn or plaintive — was rapt ; her whole
aspect that of unconsciousness, as though
she was singing in her chamber alone with
herself and her God. She might have been
a study for one of the heavenly choir of Fra
Angelico. Nothing in her could suggest the
least resemblance to a prima donna expecting
applause, who, with rounded elbows held
away from her plump form, witch many bust
quivering and all the little tricks used for
the production of voice, thinks more of her
audience than the Master whose sublime
strains she is expounding.

The swelling tones of Mary's voice in all
its low vibrations were suggestive of power
held in, and awoke in those who listened to
her breathlessly a far deeper response of
feeling than any long drawn out sharp,
however perfect the trill with which it concludes,
could have done. And Herbert, after
having heard " The Blue Bells," and loving
inquiries after " The Highland Laddie," and
the still more pathetic " Way, way," and
Farewell to Lochaber," came to the conclusion
that Miss Myles, if not herself born
in Scotland, was of Scotch descent or

parentage. He was delighted with them ashe
now heard them sung, and quite understood
how happy they would make the old
Scotchman, Dr. Grantham.

I will go and ask her to sing some
English melody for my benefit now," he at
last said to himself, and emboldened by the
thought he put out his hand and drew aside
the curtain to enter the drawing-room by
the window. Dr. Grantham had just yielded
to the solicitations of Mrs. Hazelhurst, and
was standing by the side of Miss Myles, who
was preluding for him, and as Herbert
stepped over the door-sill the good doctor,
with a face of inexpressible content, and ina
sonorous baritone voice of no mean
quality, rolled out the opening lines of
*mary Morrison" —

0, Mary, at thy window be,
It is the wish'd, the trysted hour,
Those smiles and glances let me see
That make the miser's treasure poor ;
How blithely wad I bide the store,
A weary slave frae sun to sun ;
Could I the rich reward secure,
The lovely Mary Morrison.

The young man had paused where he had
entered, and his first glance was naturally
directed to the two facing him at the piano.
Dr. Grantham was necessarily the more conspicuous

from bis upright posture. Did his
eyes deceive him ? Why, the old Scotchman
was actually wearing in his buttonhole some
rather faded bluebells !

He looked from him to Miss Myles : the
harebells which she had worn at dinner were
gone.

Les jeunes femmes qui ne veulent point paroitre coquettes,
set les hommes d'un age avance qui ne veulent pas etre ridicules,
ne doivent jamais parler de rumour comme d'une chose ou ils
puissent avoir part.

RoCHErOUCAULD.

A phantasy which nestled in my heart, *

And throve upon the magic of a name —

With cruel haste is bidden now depart,
To go into the void from whence it came ;

And dismally the hollow echoes moan,

In that bare chamber where it dwelt alone.

*' My dear Miss Myles," said Mrs. Hazel-hurst,
as she entered the schoolroom the
next morning a little before noon, " I come
to interrupt you again in your studies, but
Dr. Grantham has called ; he is now in the
library and wishes to see you there alone."
Mrs. Hazelhurst's manner was somewhat
elated, and her face a little flushed.

*' What can Dr. Grantham wish to say tome

that cannot be deferred ?" answered Mary
Myles, calmly. "I hope, dear Mrs. Hazel-hurst,
that he does not think it necessary to
thank me personally for singing those little
Scotch airs, but he is ever so punctilious and
courteous ! If you would kindly make my
apologies on account of work so much
behindhand, which he will readily understand,
and for which he will make every
allowance, I shall be very much obliged to
you."

''Dr. Grantham's desire to see you is not
to thank you for the songs you so kindly
sang, and which delighted him so much the
whole of last evening, neither is it solely to
express his gratitude for your gift of bluebells.
It is much more personal than even
that," said Mrs. Hazelhurst, smiling.

Dear Dr. Grantham, what a true old
Scotchman he is ! " said Miss Myles, turning
over the leaves of a lexicon as if searching
for a word, but without offering to rise.
Who but himself," she continued, with a
smile, " would have picked up and laid
store by those little withered blossoms when
I had discarded them, and left them upon
the table ? It would not surprise me were I
to hear that he has put them into water."

'nor me either," said Mrs. Hazelhurst,
archly.

Then must I really go to him, Mrs.
Hazelhurst ? I would not slight him for the
world," and she rose to go. ''I shall not be
absent many minutes, Helen ; you can continue
that subject."

'* Now, dear Mrs. Hazelhurst, what is this
important affair that makes you look at me
so mysteriously ? " said Miss Myles in her
sweet resolute voice as she paused on the
landing, when she had closed the study door.
What does it mean ? "

What does it mean ? Why, that you
are the happiest and most fortunate of any
woman I know." And kind Mrs. Hazelhurst
put a hand upon each shoulder of her governess
and kissed her on her forehead. " Clever
little thing," she said, smiling ; " it was the
bluebells and the Scotch songs that decided
him to make up his mind at once."

'' Decided him to make up his mind ! "

'now, do not pretend that you do not
understand. Really I did not think that it
was in you ; but all women are alike, and, in
this case, I am glad of it. He might have
gone on for two or three years longer if your
skilful tactics had not brought him to book."

VOL. I. H

The colour that had mounted to Mary's
brow now faded away to a deadly pallor.

If I rightly understand you, Mrs. Hazel-hurst,
you are speaking of Dr. Grantham in
the light of a possible husband to myself. If
this be your meaning I am more grieved than
I can possibly express, both upon my own
account as well as his."

Mrs. Hazelhurst took her hands off her
governess's shoulders. " Grieved ! " she
echoed, as her smiles died away.

Yes, deeply, deeply grieved ; and if — as
your words seem to imply — any unthinking
action of mine has led to this — more than
grieved — bitterly repentant."

It is my turn now, Miss Myles," rejoined
Mrs. Hazelhurst, coldly, '' to ask — What does
this mean ? "

It means that I cannot be Dr. Grantham's
wife."

You cannot be his wife ! " said Mrs.
Hazelhurst, recoiling a few paces and regarding
her with fixed surprise. " And, for
Heaven's sake, why not ? " she asked, somewhat
indignantly.

Simply because I must love before I
can entertain any idea of marriage," answered
Mary, firmly, looking straight into

Mrs. Hazelhurst's face with lier clear, true
€jes.

Oh ! is that all ? " and Mrs. Hazelhurst
tossed her head impatiently. " Who would
have expected to hear Miss Myles talk in such
a strain ! But that is a matter that follows,
of course ; it is every woman's duty to love
her husband, and, as Dr. Grantham's wife —
I need hardly remind you that it is a great
compliment — and so much beloved, too, as he
is. There, go ; do not keep the dear, goodman
in suspense. You are not a child not to
know — "

"What is good for me," interrupted .the
governess, smiling, but with a slightly curled
lip. '' Well, I will grant, Mrs. Hazelhurst,
that for another woman — for one who could
love him — that there could be no happier
position than that of his wife — I can say that
feelingly — I, who so love and respect him asa
friend ; but I cannot be that wife."

Mrs. Hazelhurst looked at her gravely upon
hearing those resolute words.

It seems hardly credible," she said, more
tenderly; *but still it may be so. Dear
Miss Myles, are your affections pre-engaged?"


"Always the same question," said Mary,

half-laughing. She paused and looked beyond
Mrs. Hazelhurst through the open windows,
then resumed, slowly, " I am not in
love, and I have never been in love, wherefore
you see that I am still unmarried."

*' My dear Miss Myles, ladies are not supposed
to entertain any thoughts about love
until it comes before them under the form
of a proposal — at least, that was the old-fashioned
idea, and it has been enunciated by
several writers, and you are the last person
from whom I should have expected to hear
such remarks."

Well, then, I suppose, dear Mrs. Hazel-hurst,"
she retorted, with rather a kindling
eye, " that I am no lady — only a woman —
a woman of the people — for I have thought
a good deal about this question, and I shall
recognize what love is when it comes to me,
if not under the form of a proposal."

Mrs. Hazelhurst looked at the speaker with
Unfeigned surprise.

Why, you talk like a Radical," she said,,
laughing ; '' but Dr. Grantham, poor man, is
pacing the library whilst you are arguing and
proving nothing. Come, no more affectation,"
and, giving her a playful pat, Mrs.
Hazelhurst turned away towards her boudoir.

*' It will be all right, I know," she cried, as
she opened the door and went in.

Mary Myles stood for a few moments half
irresolute.

"I wish that I could have been spared
this," she murmured ; " but perhaps he will
not feel it very much — he is a learned man
and a scholar, and has many resources — a
woman's love can't be much to him at his
age. And then," she was about to add, " he
well knows his own worth." But she checked
herself, for she loved the doctor much in a
quiet, homely fashion, and opening the library
door softly she stood before him.

Dr. Grantham was standing in the middle
of the room with his face fixed upon its
entrance. Neither spoke, but a sudden light
illumined the professor's face as gravely and
almost reverently he advanced towards her.
Outstretching both hands he took one of hers
into each of his and held them, looking at her
attentively.

Dr. Grantham had been considering an
elaborate exordium. He loved rounded
periods and flowery phrases. He was going
to tell Mary Myles that he had loved her ever
since that day six years ago when she brought
before him a long cherished Homeric ideal of

woman. Yes, when he saw in her Nausikaa
in the life. But a great change had come
upon the professor in the last few hours.
The caution, which had been stronger than
love, had faded away. All his schemes of submitting
the woman before him to a test were
forgotten. A real and great love had revealed
itself in the eleventh hour, as it were, in his
heart, and had crushed out every selfish calculation
of the expediency of offering her his
hand. For the first time in his life he felt
that to acquire the love of a noble-minded
woman was more to him than his valuable
library — aye, more to him than the whole
universe. Could it be possible that this
beautiful, this gifted, this clear-souled woman
deigned to love him ? This was the question
which Dr. Grantham had asked himself again
and again through the long and sleepless
night. Could it be possible? Unaccountable
as this now seemed to him in all the
humility of this new birth in his soul, yet it
was true. Mary Myles had actually condescended
to love him — him. She had shown
it so truly and yet so sweetly. What a
glorious simplicity the girl had ! And the
professor worked himself up to such a pitch

of impassioned reverence for the lady of his
waking dreams that had he cast himself at
her feet as she came into the room it would
have been entirely in accordance with the
tumult of his feelings and his deep sense of
gratitude ; but he restrained himself with an
effort, and merely took one of her hands in
each of his.

For some moments he seemed unable to
find any words, under the pressure of a strong
emotion. His hands, which lightly held hers
within their grasp, trembled ; and his voice
also had a strange tremor in it as he said at
last —

My dear girl, Mrs. Hazelhurst has told
you wherefore I have come."

Miss Myles did not look up now, and her
lips quivered as she answered —

"It had been better if you had written,
Dr. Grantham."

Dr. Grantham smiled.

Mary," he said, in a low voice, " I did
not write because I would not deprive myself
of an exquisite pleasure," and his hands
closed around hers with a firmer clasp. " I
longed to hear you say ' Yes ; ' to hear your
own dear lips tell me that you loved me well

enough to be my wife. You will be my wife,
Mary, will you not ? " and he essayed to
draw her closer to him.

"Spare me — spare yourself!" was the
only answer.

Dr. Grantham started, and let fall lier
hands.

Your fingers are quite cold, child ! " he
gasped. "You had better be seated; you
are ill."

"No, Dr. Grantham, I am not ill; I am
only very unhappy."

Mary Myles involuntarily laid her hand
upon his arm ; she felt a shudder run
through it.

Speak plainly," he said, somewhat
sternly ; " say you do not love me."

I cannot be your wife, Dr. Grantham !
Why ask more ? "

'why ask more I why ask morel Lookup
— look up, child ; a true, good face, not
one that deceives. It is I, then, who have
deceived myself ! It is I that have been
wrong, and it is I that must suffer — I alone.
I would not ask you to be my wife if you
could not love me, Mary. Dear girl, you did
not like to say the cruel words. But it
comes to this you see, child, that I must say

them for you, ' Foolish old man, Mary Myles
does not love you after all ! ' '*

There was a deep silence of some moments.
The breathing of Dr. Grantham was quick
and laboured from his suppressed emotions.

Dr. Grantham," said Mary, timidly, her
hand still resting on his arm, " have I anything
to reproach myself with ? Have I
been unthinking ? Have I done aught that
will sever our friendship — the friendship I
have valued so much, and clung to ; yes,
clung to ever since you came to Sunnj^-
side''

'' I thought so, I thought so ! Yours is
a virginal heart, Mary, or you could never
think that love could glide into friendship.
The reverse may happen, but never, never
can friendship take the place of love ! No,
child, I can never look upon your face again.
You do not know what love is," he said,
bitterly ; '' and yet — "

And yet, Dr. Grantham had not felt the
possibility of love until his fiftieth year, and
then it was six years after before he was
able to recognize that love meant self-renunciation.


A crimson flush mounted to the very roots
•of her hair at those words ; but she was

silent, although she quailed under their
import. Dr. Grantham looked at her long
and steadfastly.

There is a well of love in your heart's
he said, in dry and measured tones ; " but it
is not for me. Happy the man who shall
sound its depths ! " He gently removed her
hand from his arm. " Your touch burns
like fire. I am a foolish old man, a foolish
old man. Don't look so pitiful child, or
you'll kill me ! Oh, God ! "

A deadly pallor overspread the doctor's
face. He staggered a few steps backward
and sank into a chair.

Mary sprang to his side.

Dear, dear Dr. Grantham ! " she cried ;
but he had fainted.

To sorrow,

I bade good morrow,
And thought to leave her far away behind ;

But cheerily — cheerily,

She loves me dearly ;
She is so constant to me and so kind ;

I would deceive her,

And so leave her,
But, ah ! she is so constant and so kind.

Keats.

Luncheon was served, but there were present
only Mrs. Hazelhurst and Helen.

*' So you have not seen Miss Myles either,.
Helen. Where can she be ? "

Mrs. Hazelhurst had retired to her boudoir
after waving her hand playfully to Miss
Myles as she bade her to hasten to Dr.
Grantham, who was so impatiently awaiting
her in the library. Mrs. Hazelhurst, however,
was too excited to sit down quietly ta

work or read ; she was curious to know what
would be the result of the meeting after what
had just transpired between her governess
and herself. For the first time since Mary
Myles had come to Sunnjside Mrs. Hazel-hurst
was annoyed with her. Unknowingly,
however, she had been annoyed with her for
several days. There was a change in her, a
change in her costume, in her demeanour,
even the arrangement of her hair was
changed. She looked so much younger : she
looked actually girlish ; in fact, she seemed
suddenly to have thrown off five or six years
in her appearance ; she really did not look
so old as when she had first entered her service
four years ago. Yes, entered her service.
Mrs. Hazelhurst loved and respected Miss
Myles very much. One great point in her
estimation of her governess was that, notwithstanding
the familiarity of her pupil, the
spoilt only child, who persisted out of
school hours to call her teacher *' Polly,"
yet this fond disrespect had never led to
any reciprocity in a similar style from the
object of it. She had always been in Mrs.
Hazelhurst's eyes that which she wished her
to be, " quite the governess," and although
out of the innate generosity of her womanly

heart lie would rejoice to see her Mrs. Gran-than
— and when Mrs. Grantham she would
treat her with all the reverential respect due
to Dr. Grantham's wife — yet, whilst she was
Miss Myles and Helen's governess, she did
not desire to see any of the conventionalities
relaxed. Miss Myles, moreover, had not
welcomed with gratitude the promotion in
view, which Mrs. Hazelhurst thought that
she had been instrumental in bringing about.
It is universally felt to be an injury, and to
be resented as such, if, when you have carefully
prepared for another some good thing,
which you consider a most unexceptionable
benefit for the person concerned, the proffered
blessing, instead of awakening a lively gratitude,
be coldly rejected. The ignorance and
folly of such an individual who will not or
cannot grasp a fact so patent to the insight
of yourself is worthy of reprobation and
contempt. How very strangely, too, had
Miss Myles talked this morning ! She had
spoken of love in language that hardly
seemed proper when coming from a governess
to whom was entrusted the education of
well-born maidens.

It was strange for her to have such
thoughts, and to express herself about love

in so commonplace a fashion, and then to
speak of herself as ''a woman of the people."
That phrase brought to Mrs. Hazelhurst's
mind all kinds of abominations — Radicalism,
Socialism, Communism, and the French
Revolution ! She had, she thought, seen
that expression, " femme du peuple *' in
Histoire des Girondistes," and she had
once come across a dreadful book of Emile
Souvestre's where there was a ^'Jille du
peuple'' " She couldn't have learned that
at Girton, I should think," said Mrs. Hazel-hurst
to herself. " I wonder who her father
was ? " It will thus be seen that Mrs. Hazel-hurst
was criticising one whom till now she
had considered to be above all criticism.
I shall be glad to see her well married. I
hope they will make up matters ; they are a
long time about it," and Mrs. Hazelhurst
walked about her boudoir impatiently, occasionally
opening the door and listening.
Nearly three quarters of an hour ! I
never heard of such a thing. Why, it will
soon be luncheon time," and the usually genial,
good-tempered Mrs. Hazelhurst felt irritated,
and this irritation was still present when
luncheon was announced and Herbert — but
especially Miss Myles — were absent.

In her boudoir Mrs. Hazelhurst had made
a mental programme of the course she should
take in the next three years. Miss Myles
married, she should go abroad with Helen and
give her the advantages of studying French,
Italian, and German in their respective
countries. On their return, Helen, being then
eighteen, the cousins might reasonably be
engaged. As she thought of Helen, the
mother's pride in her beauty rose. " A
lucky young fellow if he does but know it,
and with her fortune, too," and then she
wished that Herbert would show more pleasure
in the society of his cousin. This was
only the third day, certainly, of his visit, but
she had not seen him seek Helen's side
voluntarily once, nor had he as yet made
any proposition for another ride. He did
not care for lawn tennis — had never played
it, and did not want to learn — so what was
to be done to bring them into the close
intimacy of cousinship ? And her nephew
did not look happy, he had not come in to
breakfast until all had retired except herself,
and then he looked as if he had been up all
night, and he had confessed to having been
out ever since five a.m., and now he was out
somewhere again. Nothing had gone on as

she had wished since he came down only a
few days ago.

Mrs. Hazelhurst glanced at Helen and saw
that her beautiful face, usually so sunny, was
clouded.

Helen, it is dull work for your cousin, as
the Ashcroft boys are away, for it seems tome
that he does not care much for the
society of us women only. We must see
what we can do to enliven him, and I see no
other way than for you to leave off every
pretext of studies whilst he is here. Nothing
will do him more good than a daily scamper
with you to all his old haunts. He cannot
be allowed to go about moping by himself.
Parker," she said to the servant who was
just entering the room, " will you tell
Bowles to see if Miss Myles is in her
room ? "

If you please, madam. Miss Myles left a
message with Bowles that she had gone to
Braemar with Dr. Grantham, and probably
should not be in at luncheon."

Mrs. Hazelhurst drew back her head, but
merely said —

'' We will not wait, Helen."

When Mrs. Hazelhurst did not lead the
conversation Helen knew that silence was

expected of her, and although a merry
twinkle in her eyes displaced their former
aggrieved expression, she made no remark
upon the last communication as regarded her
governess.

They were about to rise when Herbert
hastily entered, looking very pale and weary
and as if he had not only been up all the
previous night, but every night for a week
at the very least.

Pray forgive, dearest aunfc and cousin
mine," he cried, with an appearance of forced
gaiety as he dropped into his seat ; " I have
been exploring all the old haunts and I lost
my way."

'' You look very ill, Herbert ; what can
be the matter?" cried Mrs. Hazelhurst with
anxiety.

Ob, 'tis nothing — just a little fatigue.
Helen, are you ready for a ride this afternoon
? "

*' You are already too tired to think of it,
Herbert," said her mother, without allowing
Helen to answer.

*' Answer, Helen, for yourself," cried the
young man, as he seized the claret jug, and
pouring out a full tumbler drank it off.

VOL. 1. I

** Shall we have another scamper this afternoon
?"

Mrs. Hazelhurst regarded him with wonder,
mingled with affectionate solicitude.

Why don't you answer, Helen ? Leave
all the musty old books, I say, and come
with me, there's a good little cousin."

''My mother has just given me a holiday
for the whole of your visit, Herbert'' said
Helen, colouring, " but tomorrow will be
better for a ride, as you are already so
tired."

To-morrow ! tomorrow ! I hate tomorrows
; you must come to-day, Helen."

Was this Herbert? Mrs. Hazelhurst beheld
him with perplexity. Was everybody losing
their identity ? He was as much unlike his
own true self as the Miss Myles of that morning
to the quiet, self-repressed governess of
the last four years.

Eat your luncheon, dear boy, for as yet
you have taken nothing. In an hour or two
I will decide whether it be advisable for
Helen to ride with you this afternoon. By-the-bye,"
she said, as if desirous to bring
about a conversation upon that topic which
was underlying everything else, " did you
meet Miss Myles and Dr. Grantham?"

Herbert laid down the knife and fork
which he had just taken up.

Where could I meet Miss Myles and Dr.
(jrantham ? " he asked in hollow tones.

'' Where ? Why, they were walking out
together this morning, so I rather suspect
that Miss Myles has gone with him to look
over his house."

Mrs. Hazelhurst had tried to speak carelessly,
but it was not a success.

I think," she resumed, after a pause, asher
observation elicited no remark, " that it
will not be long now before Miss Myles
becomes Mrs. Grantham."

Why did you not tell me that they were
engaged, aunt ? " asked Herbert, hurriedly.

Helen's face became crimson.

But are they really engaged, mother ? "

There can be no doubt about that, I
should think," answered Mrs. Hazelhurst
with some asperity, passing over her nephew's
excited question ; " the fact alone of Miss
Myles walking home with him after his
proposal this morning is evidence enough.
It is extremely strange that they did not
come to me and announce the glad tidings
in person, but I suppose that they are botha
little odd, like most learned people, or

possibly Miss Myles herself might feel a
little sby after her strong protestations just
an hour before that such an engagement
was impossible."

Mrs. Hazelhurst looked at her nephew
with a smile, but both he and Helen seemed
impervious, and were obstinately regarding
the tablecloth.

'' I am exceedingly rejoiced at it myself'*
she resumed, '* for it is a splendid marriage
for her, and her acceptance of him acquits
her of all coquetry."

'' Coquetry, mother ! " cried Helen, with
some indignation.

** Yes, coquetry. To sing his favourite
Scotch songs to a Scotchman whom she knew
admired her, merely to have the gratification
of refusing him, would have appeared to me
heartless coquetry. I am glad, however,
that all has ended as in all honour it was
bound to end."

I think Dr. Grantham is a great deal too
old for her," said Helen, knitting her handsome
brows.

*' Helen, my dear, you are too young to
understand such questions, and I ought not
to have alluded to the subject before you,,
but as I have done so I can only say that I

have looked forward to this with great pleasure,
as they are both very dear to me."

Notwithstanding the expression of this
kindly sentiment Mrs. Hazelhurst felt somewhat
embittered against Miss Myles on account
of the ingratitude, as she deemed it,
to herself, which feeling had obliged her to
forget the customary decorum by thus pre-announcing
an engagement of which she was
in reality quite ignorant.

My dear boy, surely you have not
finished ? "

Yes, aunt, thank you. I shall be in
better appetite at dinner. I fancy I have
over-walked myself, but I have letters to
write, so I will go to my room, with your
permission, for an hour or so, and then may
I sue for a stroll along some quiet lanes you
may know of, with yourself and Helen ? "

"You will not find me a good companion
for a walk, Herbert," said Mrs. Hazelhurst,
although evidently pleased.

I am only thinking of a little dawdle,
dear aunt, where there are some banks to
rest upon. You must not refuse me."

Yes, indeed, I shall, Herbert, so far. I
intend to order the carriage, which will be a
mutual compromise. We will drive to the

old Abbey, and, although you are usually, as
I hear, an inveterate walker, yet I think you
will confess to the desirability to-day of trusting
to other legs than your own."

Her nephew smiled assent.

At what time will you start, aunt ? "

Half-past four," and as they rose Mrs.
Hazelhurst bent forward and kissed him on
his forehead.

Just as Herbert was about to spring into
the carriage, in which his aunt and cousin
had already been sitting for some minutes
awaiting him, Miss Myles appeared at a
curve in the drive, walking very slowly. At
the sight of the carriage she pulled her
shadowy hat still further over her brow, and
quickened her pace with the evident intention
of speaking.

Herbert, who had paused, stood aside from
the carriage door as she approached.

*' Do you go with us ? " he said, huskily.

I am not in costume for driving," she
answered.

*' Nor for taking a walk with Dr. Grantham,"
thought Mrs. Hazelhurst, glancing at
the cotton gown and garden hat.

"I will not detain you now, dear Mrs.
Hazelhurst. I have something I wish to tell

you, but it will be better to wait until after
dinner."

Mrs. Hazelhurst smiled upon her and
nodded kindly.

'' I hope you will enjoy your drive,
Helen."

Then half-turning away her head she
looked from under her hat straight and
without blenching into Herbert's troubled
face.

Good-bye for the present," she said, ina
very low voice, and as the eyes of the boy
and the woman met each said of the other —

** And you too have been weeping."

When any scene or passing trial has stirred
the deepest and most pathetic emotions of
our being, and is, as it were, photographed in
our very souls, so long as those emotions
remain in their strength, through whatever
phase of life we pass, we see and feel but that
one scene in its entirety and prominence.
All other objects are but backgrounds, mezzo-tints,
throwing up rather than hiding the
well-graven outlines and broad colours of the
chief group.

The kindest of friends, anxious to dispel
a wearing grief or temporary sadness, may

carry lis away to the haunts of gaiety, but
whilst decorum and a grateful sense of kindness
commands the temporary putting aside
of every outward show of that grief which
presses so heavily on the heart, and even
although a smile may flicker on the countenance,
yet the sense of the inner sorrow is all
the more prominent from this unnatural and
forcible suppression. We see not that which
is presented to our external vision. It is not
Permit giving away her flowers or bounding
in the unrestrained rustic dance ; it is the
daughter torn from us in her blossoming
girlhood whom we behold in the graceful
delineation of one of the most charming of
Shakespeare's creations, and so for all the
rest.

Nature is the best physician for every ill
of mind or body, but for the healing of the
former we must seek her — alone.

The carriage rolled on through lovely lanes.
In the hazel coppices the nut-hatch was
already counting the nuts ; the fruit of the
bird-cherry was just putting on a red garb
before donning later on its autumn garment
of sober black; the spindle tree was also
beginning to hang out its pretty capsules on
the slenderest of foot-stalks, which, now only

:a pale green, would, when September came,
give almost a fairy lustre to the hedge-rows
with their rose-pink hues.

Through lanes, over sloping glades, out onto
the broad heath-lands rolled the carriage,
the cheerful voices of two loving women
mingling with the genial song of Nature.
Now it would be Mrs. Hazelhurst, who
would draw Herbert's attention to the rich
foliage of an aged oak, whose heavy branches,
gnarled with the weight of years, flung their
long arms across the road. Now it was
Helen, who would point out the beauties of
;Some graceful ash — the Venus of the woods.

Herbert courteously regarded all that was
pointed out to him with apparent appreciation,
and his words expressed all the admiration
that was due, but ever there intervened
through every shadowy outline one scene —
and one scene alone — Mary Myles kneeling
by the side of Dr. Grantham, his head reclining
on her shoulder and her arm encircling
his neck.

And therefore it seems (though rarely) that love can find'

entrance, not only into an open heart, but also into a heart

well fortified, if watch be not well kept.

Bacon.

Only twenty-four hours ago ! It seemed to
two who met at dinner that night as if it
might have been twenty-four years ! Yesterday,
at the same table, happiness (delusive-guest
though she ever proves to be) had
sunned herself in the hearts of the middle-aged
possessor of erudition and that young
man, there sitting together, and all in
reference to a woman who, with singular
unconsciousness of the import attached by
both to her every word and gesture, had been
merely assiduous to give some passing pleasure
to each — to be kind and encouraging to
the rather bashful young man and grateful
and attentive to the older man. Now, she regretfully

ascribed all the palpable results sofar
as regarded young Herbert Langridge as
due to her folly in playing the wood-nymph ;
for that appellation of his came even spontaneously
to herself. To what had her whim for
indulging in conventionalities brought her,
with her bared feet and loosened hair ? Yet
were not the unshod feet and ungirt waist
but after all a reminiscence of her unclouded
childhood ? What else but a fond memory
had led her to this sportive vagary ? Was it
not her mother who had said, " My little
darling has a form perfect as a child of the
Graces, and no deforming fashions shall mar
its beauty?" and had rejoiced to see * the
tiny maiden disport on the close-shaven lawn
of Hazeldean Lodge when the summer suns
had dried the dews, as she danced along by
her mother's side with feet all unwitting of
sock or shoe.

"And he, too, loves me, poor boy," she
had said, with more bitterness than satisfaction,
as she slowly descended to dinner.
And why ? Because he is under the
dominating sway of those first impressions.
Would he have been borne away by this
foolish love if he had seen me for the first
time as Miss Myles, the governess ? "

And, therefore, the dinner was dull,
although Mrs. Hazelhurst tried her very best
to enliven it. She was curious to hear from
Miss Myles's own lips all the account of how
it had happened that she had consented to
become Dr. G-rantham's wife notwithstanding
her protestations to the contrary. Inwardly
she thought her very tiresome in thus deferring
the announcement until after dinner,
when she could so easily in a small
whisper have conveyed her the intelligence
which she so well knew would please her.
And how dismal she looked ! not a bit like
the radiant girl of yesterday, winning all
hearts. In that retrospection Mrs. Hazel-hurst
was quite ready to confess to herself
that it had not been without some considerable
alloy that in that meeting of two or
three old friends the one point of attraction
seemed to be her governess, instead of her
being an agreeable adjunct merely. Today,
however. Miss Myles was again herself,
according to Mrs. Hazelhurst's estimation of
the quiet, dignified demeanour which, accompanied
as it had always been with an appearance
of sweet and grave submission, had
early won her respect and affection. This
reticent gravity was, nevertheless, to-day

rather inopportune, as it checked Mrs. Hazel-hurst
from alluding playfully, as she was
longing to do, to the engagement to Dr.
Grantham, which had evidently been accomplished
in the face of all the protestations of
that morning.

Herbert, too, spoke little ; but in the
courtesies of the table how studious he
showed himself to show the governess every
attention. So markedly respectful was his
manner when the smallest opportunity was
afforded him for anticipating the servant in
waiting, that if Mrs. Hazelhurst had not been
wholly absorbed by thoughts of Dr. Grantham
she could not but have remarked it. Once,
as he hastened to procure some slight requirement,
Mary almost involuntarily flashed
upon him a kindling glance instead of spoken
thanks, whilst she said to herself, '' A good
young man, with a noble nature."

As her eyes were again lowered to the
level of some flowers that seemed to-day
to chain their attention, she pursued the
thought that had been just awakened.
*' Most young men with similar feelings,
however transient their character, would
have shown some measure of angry scorn ; "
and as she recalled the shadow darkening

the window that morning whilst Dr. Grantham
lay in a faint supported by her arm,
and which had caused her to raise her head,
when her eyes met the fixed, set gaze of
Herbert Langridge, how thankful at heart
was she that her lids had not quivered before
that look, and that she had not withdrawn
from lier position by the sick man's side.

'•' He is worthy of a woman's loves' washer
silent verdict, whilst Mrs. Hazelhurst
was burning to hear the confession of her
engagement with Dr. Grantham.

After the servants had retired it was no
longer possible to refrain from some allusion
to Braemar.

How you must revel in Dr. Grantham's
library, dear Miss Myles ! I suppose its magnitude
impressed you to-day more than ever."

I have not been in Dr. Grantham's
library to-day," answered the governess,
quietly, without withdrawing her eyes from
the tablecloth. ''A large library is a grand
sight, but it awes me beyond sense of
enjoyment. Perhaps, after all, the Times
was in the main, right, although when I read
the remark I resented it as one of the impertinences
so often bestowed upon us poor
women."

May I ask what was the impertinence,
Miss Myles ? " said Herbert, smiling.

Why, that ' Big libraries are not made
for women, nor women for big libraries.' I
acknowledge now that I look with great
admiration on a large library ; but if it
came to reading, why I can read better, and
enjoy what I read more, with half-a-dozen
books in a small, cosy room. I confess with
humiliation how, being left alone once in
one of the finest private libraries our country
possesses — as a great treat with ' three hours'
undisturbed possession,' as I was told — I
actually did not read one line, but wandered
about the whole time allotted to me in a
vague spirit of unrest, only looking at the
backs of the volumes."

Perhaps that was before you were in
ti-aiming," observed Herbert, smiling; 'for
it does require training to know how to
make use of a library."

I think you are right ; it was so."

Mrs. Hazelhurst cared nothing about the
question of big libraries and women's appreciation
of them, and she had failed so far ;
but she was not yet discomfited.

Before we retire, Herbert, I propose
that we drink Dr. Grantham's health, and

may his library never be less," she said,,
laughing.

Herbert reached out his hand to the
nearest decanter.

Stay, Mr. Langridge. Dear Mrs. Hazel-hurst,
I did not wish to distress you prematurely.
I wished to tell you when we were
alone that which will pain you much to hear,
but Dr. Grantham is at this moment very ill."

Very ill ! "

'' I did not leave him until he was reported
to be out of immediate danger — but — *'

Danger ! " echoed Mrs. Hazelhurst, turning
pale ; '' but he was well enough this morning.
What is it? What can be the matter?"

We thought he was well this morning,
but we were in as complete ignorance of the
real state of his health as he was himself,
for he is suffering from hypertrophy of the
heart of long standing."

On the eighth morning following upon this
day Herbert Langridge met Miss Myles at
the hall door, where she was awaiting him,
and placed a letter in her hands.

** I was to give you this. Miss Myles. It
was written last evening, and was laid out
ready for me this morning. Dr. Grantham

was up and dressed, and was in his library,
bat was too busy to see me."

'* This is indeed good news."

As Miss Myles thus spoke she held out to
him the hand that was free, but her eyes had
more eloquent thanks in their expression, had
he but seen it, but his own were averted, and
he made no attempt to retain the hand which
she laid in his.

He had gone very early every morning to
inquire after the doctor's health, and as upon
the first day he had expressly sought out
Miss Myles in order to give the bulletin to
her before anyone else, it was afterwards
assumed that these before breakfast inquiries
were almost entirely on her behalf, as the
one who of all others was more directly
interested in the state of Dr. Grantham's
health.

Poor dear girl," Mrs. Hazelhurst often
repeated, " she will do her duty by him if he
should not be the same man again ; of that I
am quite sure."

After that anxious, sleepless first night,
when Mary with pale, wan face, obeying the
summons of the breakfast bell, had met
Herbert Langridge, who was just entering the
hall, with what inward surprise did she see

VOL. I. K

him hurry to her, and hear him in a voice of
deep feeling declare that he had been over to
Braemar, and was rejoiced to be able to tell
her that Dr. Grantham had passed an excellent
night, and was much refreshed.
Mary, whilst thanking him warmly, had felt
her throat swell, and she knew that tears
were in her eyes ; and Herbert noticed how
strong was her suppressed emotion, and saw
the tears. He accepted the thanks as for
himself, but the half choked voice and the
rising tears he knew were for Dr. Grantham.
But he was mistaken, the tears were for him.
And the next morning, and the next, and
the next, throughout the whole week, Mary
had sat by the open casement of her chamber
window, watching for his coming, and her
fingers had plucked nervously at the clustering
clematis in bloom around it, until she
saw him unhasp the gate at the far end of the
walk. She would then run down to meet
him, to hear from his own lips the glad
reports of the doctor's daily returning health
and strength; and yesterday Dr. Grantham
had sent for the messenger to his bedside,
and had had some minutes' conversation
with him. " Tell that dear girl," he had said,
at parting, " that I feel as well as if nothing

Had ever been the matter with me ; it is only
the doctors who persist in holding me fast
with their manacles and fetters." Herbert
suppressed the " dear girl," but tried to say
gaily, " I have seen him. Miss Myles, and he
expressly enjoined me to impress upon you
that you have no longer any need to be
anxious upon his account," but he did not
look upon her as he said those words, and
hardly stayed for her thanks.

Poor fellow ! " sighed Miss Myles, a little
disappointed ; " how good he is ! "

But he was so late in returning this morning
that she had not waited for the cream: of
the gate, but had stolen down softly, and
was standing looking wistfully through the
stained glass windows.

Poor dear girl," said Mrs. Hazelhurst,
who had seen her from the breakfast-room,
how anxious she is to have the first news ;
but that is natural; much as we all love him
it is more to her than to anyone else."

There is no need to ask you what good
news Herbert has brought you, dear Miss
Myles," said Mrs. Hazelhurst, cheerfully, as
they were seating themselves at the breakfast
table; "and a letter, too. Now, do not lay
it on one side, my dear ; we shall be so busy

with our coffee cups that you will be able to
read it without any observation. All the
gladsome tidings in its contents which it m
befitting us to know, you can give us in an
epitome afterwards."

*' Thank you, Mrs. Hazelhurst, but I have
glanced over it sufficiently to be able to
inform you of that which is of the most concern
to us all, namely. Dr. Grantham's condition,
and you will be delighted to hear that
he is considered to be quite fit to travel ; in
fact, he is at this very moment about to leave
home."

'' To travel ! " cried Mrs. Hazelhurst and
Helen simultaneously; *' but of course not
for long."

Yes, for long. His friends in England
will not see him again for a very long time ;
it may possibly be years. Italy and Greece
will both keep him for many months, and he
will winter in Athens, which he is told is a
favourable spot for those who suffer from any
affections of the heart."

Mrs. Hazelhurst looked at the speaker
with unmitigated surprise. What could it
mean? How could she look so calm — nay,
almost cheerful?

It seems to me to be very strange altogether

to go away without any leave-taking,"
and Mrs. Hazelhurst fixed inquiring and
perplexed looks upon her governess, who sat
there so unmoved.

He takes leave in this letter. It is
charged with many kind messages, which I
will not spoil by repeating at random. The
medical advisers commanded him to go away
without taking any farewells. His future
health will depend upon avoiding all excitement."


Who accompanies him, may I ask ? "
" Only his old servant, Fletcher."

Then who will take care of his library ? "

It is to be locked up."

Mrs. Hazelhurst looked almost indignant,
and as she handed Herbert a cup of coffee
she gave him a Utile confidential toss of the
head, meaning to convey to him the mistakes
in life that are continually made by learned
people where matters of the heart are involved.
It was very perplexing, but the
commiseration which was so ready to flow
from her lips was arrested by the expression
of content so distinctly visible in every lineament
of her governess's countenance.

It has been a terrible week for us all ! "
she at last ejaculated.

Miss Myles made no comment. She did
not ordinarily exhibit any emotion, whether
of joy or grief, in public. It had, nevertheless,
been a terrible week for her. She had
wept and prayed, prayed and wept far into
those first nights when the prospect of the
sick man's recovery was a thing of doubt,
and her thankfulness had been commensurate
with her sorrow when she had realized that
although, through his love for herself, the
good doctor's life had been somewhat imperilled,
yet the first cause of the late danger
had not been due to her, and that with care
many years of usefulness might still be
allotted to him.

For several days, therefore, the weight of
her anxiety had been lightened, and when in
her wakeful hours her thoughts sometimes
reverted to the young man who, loving her,
had striven to serve her by bringing to her
every morning the earliest news of the state
of the sick man whom in all probability he
had been led to regard as her future husband,
who can wonder that she no longer apostrophized
him as " poor boy ? "

But for Mrs. Hazelhurst, anxiety was complicated
with many other feelings that were
bewildering her mental horizon, which always

required to be well defined for her to apprehend
clearly. On account of these diverging
calls upon her sympathies she did not seem
to have realized as much as might have been
expected the critical state of her old friend.
She had, however, realized that it had made
her house anything but a cheerful place for
her nephew's holiday, and had every day
devised plans whereby he and Helen could
ride out together and alone in order that the
young people, at least, might get some healthful
recreation.

The boy did not look well ; he had not
apparently benefited by the visit in * the
slightest degree. He was abstracted — almost
melancholy. If she would allow him he
would be always strolling out by himself.
What would her sister say if he returned to
her looking so ill ; and yesterday he had
positively hinted at leaving in a few days."
Poor Mrs. Hazelhiirst was grieved and disappointed.
*' Of course," she said to herself,
I don't want him to be thinking about
matrimony, and begin to make love to Helen
now whilst they are both, so to speak,
children ; but still, he hardly seems to notice
how beautiful she is growing ! One would
think that even a boy of twenty would have

some remarks to make to her mother upon
her or show some more than ordinary
pleasure when riding by the side of such a
Hebe."

But these thoughts, of late so frequent,
were banished now in the consideration of
Miss Myles's approaching trial.

Poor, dear girl ; another disappointment
for her ! "

As they were dispersing after a very
silent meal, Mrs. Hazelhurst and Helen went
simultaneously up to Miss Myles, and the
former kissed her on her forehead, whilst the
latter put her arms around her neck. Herbert,
not caring to be present at this open
manifestation of sympathy, hastily left the
room.

** We are so sorry for you ; you cannot
think how much we feel for you," said Mrs.
Hazelhurst, softly. '' You see dear Helen
appreciates the delicate position in which you
are placed as much as myself."

A crimson flush overspread Miss Myles's
face as she gently released herself from
Helen's twining arms, but retained her by
taking lier hands in each of hers.

Should it not be an unmixed gladness for
us all that Dr. Grantham is able to travel?"

she asked, gravely looking from Helen to
Mrs. Hazelhursfc. There was no immediate
answer. "I have a greater reason to be
glad than any one else, but if there be cause
for sadness among Dr. Grrantham's friends,
because they lose his society from amongst
them for a long period, it is not one that
attaches to me specially above all others."

Mrs. Hazelhurst regarded her in silence.

If it be possible that you have deceived
yourself in this matter, Mrs. Hazelhurst, I
trust, at least, that it has rested with yourself.
I hope that you have not associated
joy name with Dr. Grantham's when you
have been speaking with your friends."

To be frank with you. Miss Myles," returned
Mrs. Hazelhurst, coldly, '' I have not
considered it necessary to conceal anything
{of what to me, at least, was most manifest)
from our mutual friend, Mrs Ashcroft."

And you too, Helen ? "

I have not talked about what I am not of
an age to understand," said Helen, rather
archly.

Then it is only Mrs. Ashcroft who has
been misled ? "

Well, of course Herbert looked upon the
affair with my own eyes. At least, I suppose

SO ; but it did not interest him, apparently
to consider it at all. Anyhow, I think that
it is we who have been misled," rejoined Mrs.
Hazelhurst, with some irritation.

*' Then, for dear Dr. Grantham's sake
only-will you kindly undeceive them ? I ask
it for dear Dr. Grantham's sake, whom wa
all equally love and respect."

Mrs. Hazelhurst was inwardly very much
annoyed, and in the manner in which Miss
Myles couched her appeal there was something
which brought the colour into Mrs. Hazel-hurst's
face. Gentle as the tones were, there
was no doubt that the speaker implied that a
wrong had been done to an old friend which
must be redressed. It said as plainly as
possible —

"You have been too thoughtlessly hasty
in divulging the secrets of a man's heart.
No man cares to have an unrequited love
blazoned abroad as a theme for women's idle
gossip."

She had always regarded with a zealous
reticence, as worthy of the most sacred confidence,
the smallest indications of confessions
of love, even when they were hardly
entitled to be considered so reverently.

"As you put it in this way, Miss Myles^

certainly for dear Dr. Grantham's sake I
shall make a point of announcing as soon as
possible how greatly I have erred in supposing
that an engagement between yourself
and ray old friend was possible. Helen,
make yourself ready; we will drive over to
the Vicarage on our way to the schools," and
with more hauteur than she had ever before
exhibited, Mrs. Hazelhurst left the room,
followed by the governess.

'* Herbert," said Helen, as she met her
cousin in the hall, " why do you not go this
morning and help Miss Myles to garden ? "

'* Help her to garden ? "

"Yes, in her own garden, where no gardener
is allowed to enter, only the helper —
red-haired Joe — and he only when she is
there, that she may keep her eyes upon him.
It is a pretty, wild place. But surely you
have seen it."

No, indeed, I have neither seen it nor
heard of it until now."

I was telling Herbert about Miss Myles' s
garden, mother. He has not seen it yet."

Mrs. Hazelhurst, returning equipped for
driving, laughed —

A whim of hers, for, oddly enough, she
does not care for highly-cultivated flowers ;.

SO, when she first came here about four years
since, she besought me to let her have a
piece of ground in some out-of-the-way
corner all to herself to remind her of her
childhood, when her mother and she lived
together on a small pension in true Arcadian
fashion. It so happened that I had long been
annoyed at a sly rubbish-place where the
gardeners deposited everything that they
wished to be out of sight. There were
accumulations of years, from broken flowerpots,
spades without handles, and handles
without spades, down to a generation of
superannuated wheelbarrows in all positions
— a very Golgotha of a place. I was
indescribably glad to let her have it, for
I durst not complain to Stevenson about it,
or it is probable that he would have given
me a month's notice forthwith, and I do not
know how I could replace him. Gardeners
are the chief of our tyrants. Every servant
that is worth keeping is more or less of a
tyrant, but a good gardener is a veritable
despot. With what scorn would Stevenson
regard a mistress who could go and ' interfere
' — yes, ' interfere ' is the word — in such
a degrading subject as a rubbish-corner !
Somehow Miss Myles got over him, and he

allowed her to have his helper to do what he
could under her directions ; but I really believe,
Herbert, that Stevenson was all the
while amusing himself with the thought of
the utter discomfiture of the undertaker of
it. He is rather unwilling to see its merits,
and it really is a pretty bit of cottage gardening
— a little bit of wild nature, if it's
nothing else. There you will see all the
homely, old-fashioned plants that are just
beginning to assert themselves again in some
gardens, but Stevenson despises them still.
I generally take my friends to see it, and
wonder that I did not speak of it before.
But go and find it out this morning. I saw
Miss Myles go in that direction a few minutes
ago, and as Helen and myself are going to
the schools to give away some prizes, it will
help to pass away your time until we return.
You will find it out by the tall ash tree, but
any of the gardeners will be glad to show
you the way."

In July come cauliflowers of all varieties — musk-roses, the
lime tree in blossom. Bacon.

Open afresh your round of starry folds,

Ye ardent marigolds.

Dry up the moisture from your golden lids,

For great Apollo bids

That in these days your praises should be sung

On many harps which he has lately strung.

And when again your dearness he kisses,

Tell him I have you in my world of blesses.

Keats.

*' There, go and help Miss Myles to weed
her garden'' had been Helen's laughing
admonition, as her mother and herself drove
away, and it had been received with a half
smile of acquiescence. Herbert looked after
the carriage vacantly, and hardly saw the
waving of Helen's hand as she merrily

pointed out to him the direction in which
the garden lay.

Help Miss Miles to weed her garden."

It had an attractive sound. He had not
spoken with the governess for two consecutive
minutes alone since that afternoon
when he had met her accidentally at the
chestnuts, and had given her some harebells
which he had gathered — those harebells
which she had worn at her bosom, those
bluebells which she had given to Dr. Grantham
!

Dr. Grantham was now gone — gone away
for many months, perhaps for a year, maybe
for ever, an invalid, with a most uncertain
term of life, which any hour might terminate ;
and, of course, she was free again. The
whole seemed like a dream, and yet how
drearily long this last fortnight at his aunt's
had crawled along ! How unhappy he had
been ! and yet what glimpses of joy had
sometimes tinged the clouds with silver
rims.

He stood and looked at the little winding
path indicated, but he did not follow it.
Miss Myles, he had been told, rejoiced in
the absolute retreat her garden afforded.
How could he intrude upon it ? What

excuse had he for so doing ? What did he-know
about gardening, except from Bacon's
Essay," which had been given to him at
some examination to render into Latin ?
How could he assist her ? When he hardly
knew weeds from flowers, could he be bold
enough to proffer his help in weeding ? Of
all the many bores with which this otherwise
happy world is so full, there is no bore so
destructive to one's peace of mind as the
volunteer who offers his help in matters of
which he is profoundly ignorant. Every
experience knows the result of weakly yielding
to the " Shall I help you ? " of incompetence.


So he stood and pondered, leaning over
the gate, and with thoughts akin to the
above was mingled the remembrance of a
few scenes that had almost burnt themselves
into his brain, coming ever as vividly, and
with the living movement of copper-plate
engravings before him, whether sleeping or
waking, whether driving with his aunt or
riding with his cousin. Now it was the
hamadryad of the chestnuts, and now it
was the lovely woman kneeling by the side
of Dr. Grantham with upturned face and
caressing arm ! But to-day, for the first

time since that terrible morning, as that
last scene recurred again, as recur it would,
strive as he might to banish it, there flashed
upon him suddenly and intuitively the conviction
that it was no love scene which he
had accidentally beheld, and that the pale
face that for one moment lifted its intent
gaze from Dr. Grantham and met his own,
was one in which deep distress was alone
visible. Herbert spurned a stone with his
foot.

Fool that I have been ! The good doctor
was ill, and she, angel that she is, was
ministering to him." She had never spoken
of the form which his sudden illness had
taken, nor how nor where it had seized
upon him. She had never breathed a word
of it to Mrs. Hazelhurst; she had walked
home with him, tended him, and nursed him
for hours, and had said nothing. " Neither
will I ask one question concerning what she
has withheld," said the young man.

A sudden accession of energy came with
this last resolve, and Herbert opened the gate
and went through, but not in the direction
which Helen had pointed out, but into the
wider path which led into the gardens of the
house. Mrs. Hazelhurst kept eight gardeners

VOL. I. L

and one helper. The eight gardeners were
professional men ; they always spoke of
their calling as a profession, and one of
them — Mr. Stevenson, the head-gardener —
was high up on the professional ladder, and
expected to be consulted and to be advised
with before the smallest of his rights, as he
conceived them, was invaded, or '' interfered
with " rather. No grapes, not even a peach
or a nectarine, must leave its parent bough
without his permission. Had Mrs. Hazel-hurst
herself been rash enough to pluck any
of those fruits which cost her so much in
their production, Mr. Stevenson would have
resented it as a breach of privilege, and
would possibly have given notice to leave
forthwith. That very particular bunch which
she once unthinkingly gathered for a sick
friend was the very one destined for exhibition,
and which would have carried off the
first prize. Visitors were led solemnly
through vineries and peach-houses, and were
almost tempted to consider themselves as
looking upon the forbidden fruit, so jealously
they seemed to be guarded. One thoughtless
youth, impelled by that inveterate habit of
investigation by touch which infects so many
people, whether they be visitors at museums

or vineries, lead several times during a progress
under Mr. Stevenson s guidance slightly
pinched the pendant clusters.

Excuse me, sir, but you are rubbing off
the bloom and spoiling them for exhibition,"
said Mr. Stevenson at last, testily, and the
humiliated young man made an inward vow,
and never again went near a vinery nor
would touch a grape on Mrs. Hazelhurst's
table, bounteous although the supply was
ever.

Mr. Stevenson was no niggard, but he
rejoiced that in all the liberal gifts of baskets-ful
which issued from Sunnyside to houses
less well supplied, that the whole management
was left in his hands, as was proper.
He reigned supreme, and his right to reign
was unquestioned, although not seldom was
his rule felt to be a galling one by his kind
and liberal mistress. As with the fruits, so
with the flowers. Mr. Stevenson had a great
name for his gloxinias, gardenias, and other
blossoms so dear to exhibitors and seekers
for prizes, and many choice exotics, but he
himself always dressed the table, and in justice
be it said, that there was never any cause
for complaint about a lack of flowers wherever
or whenever needed. When his name appeared

on the prize list Mrs. Hazelhiirst was
complimented by her friends upon possessing
such a gardener, although even each chrysanthemum
at the show had cost her a
guinea in the rearing. These honours and
the compliments of her friends strengthened
her fears, lest losing him, his services could
with difficulty be replaced, and thus every
success only served to strengthen still more
his despotic rule.

But in all these grand gardens, where one
is not free to '' gather the roses while ye may'*
there is a sense of restraint, and a stroll in a
garden where such autocracy is tolerated is
weariness to the flesh. At least so felt Herbert
Langridge, as he walked slowly up this
path and down that, amid a blaze of colours,
artistically enough blended, in the figure
beds that nestled on the velvety turf,
through arches of roses, over sloping lawns ;
in short, in a garden where there was everything
to charm and delight the senses, but
very little to touch the heart. Moreover, to
stroll alone in a garden whilst eight gardeners
and a help are at work destroys any poetry
that attaches to it. The best thing then is
to talk to the workers therein and extract
some benefit that way ; so Herbert, meeting

Stevenson, asked him some trivial question
in relation to bis art.

'' Would you like to see the hot-houses,
sir?" asked Stevenson, eagerly, glad of the
opportunity thus afforded for displaying their
treasures and his skill.

Herbert faintly acquiesced.

I don't think you have seen our gloxinias,
sir. Mrs. Hazelhurst is very proud of our
gloxinias."

Now it so happened that Herbert hated
gloxinias. It seems cold-hearted and ungrateful
in anyone to hate a flower so beautiful
in its varied colours as the gloxinia, but
Herbert had seen them in other houses petted
up with cotton wool round their calices, and
had conceived at once a dislike to them.
They looked, he had thought, like people
suffering from toothache, so he indiscreetly
answered quickly —

I do not care for gloxinias, Mr. Stevenson
; they seem such stupid flowers."

Stevenson had his hand on the door. He
shut it with a bang, and looked at Herbert
with but slightly suppressed contempt and
amazement.

*' Then it's of no use showing you the
orchids, sir?"

'' Yes, I like orchids. They are not stiff
and formal. There is poetry in orchids."

So Herbert was taken through the orchid-house,
and he showed due appreciation, and
as he did not ask for one for his button-hole,
as some " young gents " had done, Stevenson
was mollified. He went through other
houses also, and said that the contents were
all beautiful, and he touched nothing — not a
bud nor a leaf — and then he looked at his
watch. What was all this sudden interest
in the hot-houses and vineries when it was
Mary's garden whither his heart yearned to
go?

Like many other means which are rather
roundabout and complex for an end which,
looked at broadly, seems a simple matter
enough, Herbert was all this time making his
way, as he thought, into that other self-same
garden. He had decided within himself that
he could not go to it alone, and call over or
through the hedge, 'may I come in?" but
under the orthodox guidance of the head-gardener,
when he had patiently been the
round of the hot-houses, if he were then introduced
by him into its sacred precincts, he
felt he would have fulfilled all the conditions
required by a reticent courtesy. They were

at a door leading out of one house into
another.

Now, Mr. Langridge, I am going to show
you our cactus house. There is a night-flowering
cereus I should like you to see. I
expect that it will blossom in about a fortnight,
and it will be well worth anyone's while
to sit up all night and wait for its opening."

As Mr. Stevenson said this with laudable
elation he opened the door. A puff of hot,
steamy air blew into Herbert's face.

Make haste in, sir, if you please. I can't
have the door kept open."

I won't go in, thank you, Mr. Stevenson ;
it is too hot. I am very much obliged to you
for your attention, but I have not much more
time. Will you be so kind as to show me
Miss Myles's garden ? "

Mr. Stevenson with great deliberation
locked the door, and in silence preceded
Herbert back through the house they had
previously passed through. Once or twice
he stopped to examine some plant. Arrived
at the last door he held it open for Herbert
to pass out, and then with a great jingling of
keys locked that also after which he raised a
whistle which hung round his neck and blew
with it shrill V.

"Joe," lie shouted, as the helper appeared,
the gentleman wants to see Miss Myles's
garden," and Mr. Stevenson raised his hat
and turned away.

Joe, the helper, who looked as if he had
been lately steeped in liquid manure, had his
shirt sleeves tucked up above his elbows.
His other chief garment of ribbed cords, the
original tint of which was indiscernible, was
also rolled up on either leg far above the tops
of his thick hobnailed laced boots, which hein
his native Suffolk lingo, designated as
"high-lows." These were well-coated with
some peaty-looking substance, and by the
above arrangement there was thereby displayed
a considerable amount of coarse blue
worsted hose. The legs of the aforesaid
garment were moreover bound below each
knee by a red cotton handkerchief, in order
that they might adjust themselves the better
for a stooping position, and thus it was not
easy to test accurately their fit, but gloominess
rather than style seemed to have been
the object of the designer.

Joe seemed to have a monopoly in red
cotton handkerchiefs, for another was bound
round his waist instead of a belt to hold up
the aforesaid trousers, for he was unbraced.

The collar of his blue striped cotton shirt
was open, whilst his sandy shock of hair was
also uncovered, and the perspiration which
streamed thence down his red and freckled
face showed that at least he had really been
working hard at some labour which required
the putting forth of manual strength.

I didn't know, sir, as how I had to go
along with a gentleman, sir," said Joe, as he
thrust back his sandy mop with his begrimed
hand. " Maister Stevenson needn't ha' sent
for me, cos he gnawed I war a-turning the
muck heap. Hope yow'U excuse me, sir ;
one can't be over tidy when one's a-turning
muck — that's certain, sir."

I can quite understand that, Joe," said
Herbert, smiling.

Fact is, sir, Maister Stevenson is allays a
beetle bit sore along o' Miss Miles's garden.
Me and she did it all of ourselves, you see,
sir, without him — leastways, he jest come
in once or twice to see how we wor a-going
on. An' you never seen it, sir? "

"No, Joe, I never knew of it until this
morning."

Laws, sir, there's a lot of folks come to
the house, surely, but they never go a-till
they've seen it. It be a right pretty place,

though I helped to make it. I don't believe
you'd ha found it by herself, sir. It's all
hidden up so. Miss Miles won't let a pair
of shears come nigh the hedge. Maister
Stevenson say it be all the world jest like a
wilderness, and nowt else. I like it, you
see, 'cause it minds me of my feather's garden
at home — lots o' cauliflowers, snapdragons,
pinks, and coronations — does one's heart good
to see um. She and me made it together.'
Joe paused to take breath. " Miss Miles
won't ha' nothing that won't bide the
winter, and there's ne'er a path 'kept one
that leads up to a seat, and a little bowery-like.
When me and Miss Miles tuk it in
hand, sir, it was nowt but rubbish heaps, but
we let them all bide, and piled good mould
over 'em, and plenty of it, so it's all up and
down — up and down — and covered all over
wi' thine. Fancy walking on thine, sir ;
as if one war on a common, and the flowers
coming up just as they like — that's Miss
Miles' s fancy. She an' me did it all." Joe
again paused, but as no remark was elicited
from Herbert he went on. " I never see in
all my life such a lot o' living' things as thane
in that garden. I repose they ha' a looking
kinder for the thine ; and as for bees,

why they come from miles round. Miss
Miles knows all thar ways, too. She's told
me a lot about bees an' ants. I'd never ha'
bleed if she hadn't told me. Thar's lots
o' singing' birds, too. I tell you what it be,
sir " — and here Joe looked mysteriously and
confidentially at Herbert — *' I think everything
is kinder in love wi' Miss Miles. She
bent a bad looking young lady, sir, be
she ? " he added, in a lower and almost
apologetic tone.

Such a remark coins from Joe, fresh from
the muck heap — a fact which was strongly
evident to at least two senses — was almost
too much for Herbert's gravity, and he smiled.

'* Tha do tell me she be a great scholar,
sir ; but I don't know nowt about that. I
bent much of a scholar myself. I never
tuk to 't. But tha's one thing I do know, sir,
about Miss Miles, and that is that she be
mortal kind — that I do know. I wa' down
wi' the saver, sir, the last summer that's
gone, sir, and it was she got me through — if
anything got me through"* Joe here gave

Joe Brunning's speech is such as was familiar to Suffolk
before the days of Board Schools, with a slight admixture of the
Cockney dialect, which he derived from a friend of his, whom he
strove to imitate, and to whom he looked up as an authority,
because he came from " Lunnun.'*

his trousers an energetic hitch, and looked
rather fierce, as though the fact was being
contested. " I gnawed it then, an' I know it
now. She come every day to see me, and
brought me a lot of things I'd never so
much as seen afore, much less tasted ; and
she brought me a silver spine to eat 'em wi*.
Joe,' she say, ' you must eat um while I stay,
'cause I want to take back the spine and
plate, and bring them again all bright and
clean tomorrow.' Those were just her words,
sir. I'd never had a silver spine in my
mouth afore, sir ; that I'll take my oath on't.
I wasn't born with a silver spine in it, as
they say, sir — that I wasn't. Some days she
actually bring a saucepan wi' her, an' that
war for all the world like silver outside an
in ; an' she made me some stir about stuff
over the foire her blessed self." Joe's recollection
at this point seemed to make his
voice luckier than usual, and his moist
brown hand again passed over his red forehead.
''I thow't then," he said, in a still
lower voice, " that she wor a Erratum who
had got down here by mistake, and I don't
know, but I think so still. But here we are,
sir. You'll 'sense me going any further ;

shouldn't like Miss Miles to see me jest out
ter muck heap as 't were."

But I cannot see the signs of any garden,
Joe."

"Ah, well, perhaps she bent looking this
way'* and Joe pushed back some long trailing
boughs. " Mind your hat, sir. Miss
Miles want have no shears, you see."

Veiled and draped with woodbine and
bindweed, which frolicked over the branches
of a wide-spreading maple, a little rustic
gate peeped out from amid a tall thick hedge
of thorn.

There's a bell by the side, sir, because
Miss Miles often locks herself in."

*' Thank you very much, Joe."

Thank you, sir," said Joe, grinning as his
dirty palm closed over the silver coin placed
therein, which he slipped into his capacious
pocket with marvellous dexterity. " Thank
you kindly, and good morning, sir."

Fairest among woodland trees — truly a
sylvan Venus, as it has happily been named —
the tall ash which Helen had described as
the landmark of Mary's garden threw out
far and wide its graceful branches, and the
feathery lightness of its foliage was still

untouched by summer's scorching heats.
Midway, clambering from bough to bough,
as if with ineffectual yet continuous and
almost playful efforts, as it seemed, it strove
to reach the very top, there hung in profusion
festoons of wild clematis, which rejoices also
in the charming name of " Travellers' joy."
Supported by the strong arms of its chosen
companion, it had grown far beyond the
ordinary height and size of this hedgerow
climber, and had massed itself on the lower
boughs with so great an amount of vigour
and persistence that they were forced to yield
to the persevering gentle pressure, and as
strength is conquered by embracing love,
bent their branches downwards, inclining to
the earth, which the long trailing pendants,
covering with smiling blossoms, caressed
as the slightest waft of wind waved them
hither and thither, as if in sportiveness and
glee.

Under the cover of this pleasant shade,
not too deep to exclude flickering sundays,
was a little log seat from which the whole
garden sloping away could be seen. Like
the heroic virtues, which appear to flourish
best on rough soils, the hardy perennials, in
the gladness of free profusion, hid up the

rubbish and outcasts of Mr. Stevenson's
choicer plots.

Here the old-fashioned bush-roses of
cottage gardens, covered with blossoms to
the very ground, grew in healthy breadth of
comely vigour, nor needed staves whereon to
lean ; masses of sturdy plants were clumped
here and there ; lilies of every kind sprung
out from amid tufts of odorous thyme, or
patches of purple heather, which was the only
carpet bedding. The ruined arch of a disused
water-way, which still, however, owned
a little limpid thread, ever trickling through
it, had offered itself as a fit habitat for the ify-
leaved toadflax, variously named by country
folk as "creeping Jenny" and 'proving
sailor," and this made beautiful the old worn
brickwork with its graceful network of fairy
silken cords, which, fine as a gossamer spider's
web, clung to its rugged home, and hastened
to sip with joy the breath of the tiny runlet
beneath.

A high hedge of hawthorn, here and there
broken by the spindle and wild cornel, in and
out of which everywhere disported the woodbine,
girdled this garden of the governess,
and shut out all other views. The Eglantine
and most of the wild roses, of which there

are so many varieties, here grew or clomb at
their ease. It was all redolent of perfume
and brightness, and a continuous hum as of
the woods filled the air. It was a place to
dream in, a place where a weary soul might
forget for awhile its oppressing cares. The
labour which this cultivated wild required
was nowhere visible ; its charm was that it
seemed fresh from the hand of Stature.

On the low log seat sat Mary Miles ; her
garden gloves — for she had not been gardening
— thrust through her waist-belt; her
hands loosely clasped together lying on her
lap, where also lay Dr. Grantham's open
letter, which we, looking over her shoulder,
will take the liberty of reading.

"My Dear Girl,

I am going away for months,
perhaps years, ah ! who knows for how long ?
It is the doctor's doing ; for days and days
I was obstreperous, as I had not the slightest
desire to expatriate myself, but they insisted,
even asserting that by so doing my life might
be prolonged ten years or more. I doubted
at first whether that was worth the while,
but one thought of you, my dear girl,
prompted me to obey, and to obey at once.
I thank God that by acting thus I may

relieve your gentle hearse of a probable
burden. Yes, I thank Grod for your sake
more than my own that my life has been
mercifully preserved through this attack. I
shudder to think how, if I had succumbed,
you might have tortured yourself by unjust
fears. Many, many thanks, noblest and
dearest of women, for all your sweet
courtesies and loving tenderness on that
terrible day. The medical dictum that
sealed, as it seemed, my death warrant, and
which to some might have brought some
pain, was to me a joy, as though it had been
the promise of life and health. ' The disease
was of long standing.' Thank Grod ! and I
had been saved from intending you a
grievous wrong. When I think of it as I
write I am filled with emotions of gratitude
to the good Grod who preserved me from so
doing. A lovely woman in the pride of
youth, richly endowed with every intellectual
gift, might have been sacrificed — 1 say might
in a qualified sense — if you had not been
true to yourself, or if you had been weak
and allowed the righteousness of your nature,
and your unwillingness to give pain, to
override, as is too often the case with
women, your truth and justice. Thank

VOL. I. M

God ! thank God ! I can look back now,
Mary, to that morning as though then I had
passed over the borderland between my
lower and my higher nature — not from life to
death, but from death to life. I loved you
then, God knows how dearly ! I love you
now infinitely more, but it is as the love of
Dante for his Beatrice, or, if you prefer
another simile, the love of a widowed father
for his only daughter, which you, had I
married in the ripeness of my manhood,
could well have been.

'^ You must not think that I am degenerating
into a rhapsodical old man ; these overflowing
words, these, to use a modern
expression, gushing phrases, will not be
repeated, but I wrong you. Deep down
behind the Athens-like calm of your outward
demeanour is a heart aglow with the warmest
emotions. To you now I can speak freely,
and you will not misinterpret me — you will
read and listen without any dread of future
self-seeking from me. I am full of overflowing
gratitude. I cannot say, as some
disappointed men have said under similar
circumstances — would that I had never seen
you. I bless God that I have seen you. I
bless God for that first vision of you, years

ago, when you burst upon me like the
realization of an old dream. I bless God
that I have known you, that I have loved
you, that I love you still. It is as if a flood
of heavenly harmonies had entered my soul
by you. As once after hearing Beethoven's
sublime ' Pastoral Symphony ' I bowed my
heart and knees at night in thankfulness to
the great God who had bestowed such gifts
on men, so do I daily bless His holy name
for you, Mary.

*' Now, an end to rhapsody and gushing.
I am going first to the Italian lakes.
Fletcher goes with me ; he is a faithful and
tried, as well as a capable servant. My
dearly-loved books will be all covered up,
and my library will be kept locked. Had
you been likely to remain at Sunnyside I
should have asked you to take charge of the
key, and to see that Henderson occasionally
aired it properly, but as it stands I have
handed over that friendly office to our o*ood
Vicar. Regarding your projected departure
from Sunnyside, which you confided to me, I
think it is well thought of. Your high
attainments in the classics are buried there.
You have done well by Helen, and she has
benefited much by your knowledge of the

modern languages, and by your moral influence
; but the offer made to you is a good one.
In a few years there will be less opportunity
of securing such a position, as there will be
more ladies who will be duly qualified, or
else I should hesitate in speaking as I do.
You are almost too young for such a post
with all that it involves, and I do sincerely
hope that you will before long become the
wife of some man worthy of you, if such a
man can possibly be found. I shall write to
you from Florence. My intention at present
is to winter at Athens — an excellent place,
they say, for patients like myself. It is the
thought of visiting Greece that makes the
contemplation of abandoning my home,
surroundings, and my friends even temporarily
tolerable. Devoted as I have been
through life to those great writers, I shall
tread the ground their feet have trodden with
a kind of ecstasy. The difficulty will be to
keep down my enthusiasm, and to be quiet,
as I am commanded to be. I shall not,
however, when in Greece live wholly in the
past. I shall study the present race, the
living sons of that poor Greece once so
great and then so humbled in the dust. I
shall see and judge for myself. I know you

share with me my hopes and sympathies as
regards the little Greece of our own day.
Write to me, my daughter, my friend, from
time to time, and tell me all ; an old man's
advice may perhaps be of use sometimes.
Once in two months will not overtax your
leisure hours. Remember me heartily to
Mrs. Hazelhurst and Helen. Tell them that
wherever I may be I shall often think of
them with affectionate regard, and tell them
also that I am not responsible for this apparently
barbarous behaviour, for this rude,
ill-mannered departure. I am under orders,
and I was enjoined to have no leave-takings,
to say to none. Good-bye.

It is almost as much a discovery to myself
as to my physicians to find that I am not a
grave phlegmatic scholar, imperturbable, and
calm, but really and truly a nervous old man.
May a thousand blessings attend you. Farewell.


Ever yours sincerely,

*' George Bentham.

By-the-bye, what a thoroughly fine fellow
is Mrs. Hazelhurst's nephew."

With reverent attention Miss Myles read
and reread this letter. The shadows that

hovered over her face seemed to come more
from awe than grief. "Kind, good, and
true," she said, as she laid the letter upon her
lap and crossed her hands upon it.

And she sat upon the low log seat, gravely
musing, while the minutes sped on and on.
She looked athwart her little paradise of
flowers and sweet scents, of pleasant buzzing
and twittering of gladsome life, and the
shadows died away, and the sunshine stole
out by degrees from behind the filmy clouds.

"What a thoroughly fine fellow is Mrs,
Hazelhurst's nephew."

It was not an abstruse proposition, nor one
that required much scholarship to unravel,
but over that postscript Miss Myles had been
drifting into hitherto unexplored regions of
feeling rather than of thought.

'' A thoroughly fine fellow ! "

A smile swept over her face.

And he loves me," she said to herself, and
at that juncture of her ideas, she heard her
gate bell tinkle.

'' That's Joe 1 " she cried, and at the unromantic
image of Joe suddenly brought before
her, reveries and day dreams fled. She put
the letter, postscript and all, into her pocket
and walked leisurely towards the entrance.

Plenty of work for us both," she said, as
she glanced around.

She turned the key and opened the gate.

Mr. Langridge ! " she plucked her hat
quickly over her brows. " I thought — I
thought it was Joe."

I have taken Helen's advice, Miss Myles,
and have come to offer my services in weeding
your garden."

'' I could not trust you to weed, I do not
trust even Joe to weed."

Even Joe," repeated the young man.
The comparison with Joe of the muck heap
seemed ludicrous, and he laughed.

'why do you laugh at poor Joe's name?
He is just what I want, he does exactly what
I tell him, and no more; he does not think
what he had better do, but obeys."

And so will I, if I do not know flowers
from weeds. Well — perhaps I can dig, or —
anything you like."

There is no digging to be done, but come
in, and at least see my garden. I myself am
not inclined to-day for work," and she turned
back up the little path, followed by Herbert,
who felt that he had been snubbed.

What a thoroughly fine fellow is Mrs.
Hazelhurst's nephew." That postscript

would repeat itself unasked. What could
Dr. Grantham want to put that in as a sequel
to his letter for ?

It is rather too hot for work, Mr. Langridge.
I have a little bower where I sit sometimes
and read, or pretend to do so, for a
garden after all is not a place for real reading.
Emerson is right in that." But Herbert felt
that he had been snubbed, and thought that
Joe after all would have been the person
whom she would have preferred to see at the
gate.

'' Will you not come into my bower, Mr.
Lang^ridofe ?"

How sweetly those words of invitation fell
upon his ear. He looked her in the face, it
was lighted up with smiles, and she blushed
as her eyes met his.

I am very sorry," she said, turning away,
"but there is only a seat for one; I had forgotten
that."

May I not lie on this dry moss at your
feet ? " asked the young man, somewhat
emboldened by her manner. She knew that
she had snubbed him, she who was generally
so gracious, and she wished to make amends.

Why not? " she said, and she sat down
demurely on the log, and there was silence.

A very young man and a lovely woman, in a
garden alone, the one ardently in love — first
love — the purest of all loves, and the other
conscious of that love, and not rebuking it —
how could it not but foster a quicker growth,
if such were needed to cement it ?

And there was silence ; neither looked at
the other, but some electric current simultaneously
carried both their thoughts to that
first day at the chestnuts.

The tips of two little feet pressed the moss
almost on a level with Herbert's eyes. She
felt rather than saw this, and drew them
gently beneath her gown. And still the postscript
of Dr. Grantham's letter kept repeating
itself, with the persistency of a jingling rhyme
or musical jig, which Locke so pertinently
says a well regulated mind should at once be
able to dismiss.

What a delicious place you have made of
this. Miss Myles," said Herbert, breaking the
silence, and raising himself on one elbow.
*' This is as charming as the grotto of
Calypso."

A grotto ! Mr. Langridge, do you call
this a grotto ? I always thought a grotto was
of stone, damp, grippy, and uncomfortable,"
said Mary, smiling, inwardly glad that the

silence was interrupted by so inapt a comparison.
" And Calypso's grotto too ! Well
I think it is hardly entitled to be called an
arbour ; see how the sundays come through
everywhere. I like sunshine better than shade;
but I have been thinking all this time what
garden work I could give you." Truthful,
clear-souled Mary Myles, was that true ? She
rose as she made that statement. " We will
go and see," she said. And when Herbert,
obedient to her summons, also started to his
feet, she added softly, with a somewhat
averted face, '' If those interwoven boughs,
Mr. Langridge, reminded you of Calypso's
grotto, wherever that might have been, I
hope that there is nothing in me to remind
you of Calypso, or any of her class ?"

'' Iso, no ; it was a very stupid thing to say.
If I wanted to make a comparison I ought
to have said a hamadryad's bower," said the
young man, eagerly.

No, I am not a hamadryad," she replied,
gravely ; " I am only Mary Myles, the governess."


And she left him to follow her.

Stopping before the trunk of a tree from
which a storm had torn the upper stem and
branches, she turned to him —

You look very strong, after all," she said;
I forgot that you had rowed with the
Oxford eight. I really believe that you
would find no difficulty in cutting this down,
and digging up the stump for a second rustic
stool for my arbour. It looks so inhospitable
not to have a seat for a guest. You will tell
me frankly at once if you dislike such a task,
will you not, Mr. Langridge ? "

To work for her, to do something for her,
to make another seat for his hamadryad's
retreat was altogether the one thing which
at that moment was able to bring more joy
into Herbert's heart than aught which it bad
known for some weeks. His was no nature
especially adapted for lengthened, dreamy
contemplations, any more than that of Miss
Myles. He was eager to begin. Where
were the tools ? Mary turned to fetch them.

*' You cannot carry them ; let me go for
them."

"I am not feeble," said Mary, laughing;
but they both went together.

Mary, however, when the tools were
brought could only do the looking on part,
but her spirits rose as she gazed on the
noble and athletic figure of Herbert with his
upraised axe ; and she was glad that he and

not Joe was before her, whilst the postscript
of Dr. Grantham's letter was now remembered
with a physical interpretation. '' What
a thoroughly fine fellow."

I think I should like to live in a log hut
which I had seen built," she said, simply,
following up a train of ideas.

Should you?" answered Herbert, and his
axe paused as he looked in her face, whilst a
new and sudden thought rushed through his
mind.

At that moment a booming, long protracted
metallic sound was borne by the
breeze.

'' The gong for luncheon ! " cried Mary.
^* We must go."

She turned away and walked down the
narrow path, he following. The gate was
reached, and her hand was upon the latch.

'* Will you not give me one flower from
your garden?" he asked, tremulously.

"Gladly," she answered. "Wait here, I
will go back and gather you some roses."

No, not roses ; pluck me some mary-gold."


She did not ask the reason of that preference,
but went without a word. The mary-gold
were gorgeous in their golden profusion,

a very " laugh of Nature," as Herbert
happily called them afterwards. In a few
moments she came back with a large bunch
clasped in both her unloved hands.

I have brought you a great many, Mr.
Langridge, because they look best in masses,
especially if we can find a dark-blue jar or
bowl wherein to place them. But if you do
not care for so large a bunch, pick out those
you prefer," and she held them out to him.

She looked so bright and happy. Herbert
did not take the flowers, but his strong,
nervous hands closed round those which were
holding the marigold.

"Mary!" he said.

O, bliss of blissful hours !

The boon of heaven's decreeing.

While yet in Eden's bowers

Dwelt the first husband and his sinless mate !

The one sweet plant, which, piteous heaven agreeing,

They bore with them through Eden's closing gate.

Coleridge.

*' Once again, Parker."

And for the third time the gong resounded
under Parker s vigorous manipulation, causing
Mrs. Hazelhurst and Helen, who were
both standing in the porch, to hold their
ears, laughing all the time.

'* Here come the two gardeners at last,"
cried Helen. " And see, mother, Herbert
has actually got his hands full of marigold."

Mrs. Hazelhurst held out her watch with
a gentle smile of reproach as the " two gardeners,"
with deprecating gestures, hurried
towards the house.

Whatever do you intend to do with those
marigold, Herbert ? Could not Miss Myles's
garden supply you with any better posy than
that?"

"I chose them mine own self, my dear
aunt. They are a veritable laugh of Nature —
strong, bright, and true. There are no concealed
thorns behind a mask of beauty in
them. See now," cried Herbert, gaily, ashe
held them up against the deep purple
portiere, '* see how they stand out and light
up that sombre background. Find me a
dark-blue basin or pot to place them in,
Helen. They will bring sunshine to my room
in the cloudiest days."

But they have a most abominable smell,"
remarked Mrs. Hazelhurst. " Surely you do
not intend to have them in your bedroom ? "

Do I not. A blue vase, dear Helen, and
you shall see."

Helen looked full into her cousin's face
with wide open eyes, for his boyish, lighthearted
manner seemed suddenly to have reasserted
itself.

I know where there is one which will do
admirably," and as she skipped away to seek
it her clear girlish treble voice rung out —

When winking marybuds begin to ope their golden eyes.

Alone in her room — Herbert and Helen
out riding together, and Mrs. Hazelhurst
writing letters — Mary reviewed all that had
occurred since the morning, whereby it seemed
that from that time all her whole life was
henceforth changed, and a new life, gorgeous
with rainbow tints, had begun. She had seen
the cousins go forth; the merry laugh of Helen
came floating through her open window, but
she did not look forth therefrom to wave her
hand to Helen as she would have done heretofore.
As they turned off from the drive a
bright manly face had eagerly sought that
lattice, and her heart beat quicker as she
saw that glance, although she shrunk back
behind the summer curtains as if to shroud
her joy even from herself.

Mine for ever and ever," was the refrain
now ringing in her ears, and not Dr. Grantham's
postscript.

'Tor ever and ever! " Mary softly repeated
the words, '' Yea, by God's grace,
through all eternity — through all eternity.
I have found thee at last, my love, my own
heart's lord," and she covered her face with
her hands, and wept for gladness.

What was there so potent in that single
word " Mary " that had in a second, cast

down the watch and ward she had held so
long over all emotion ? Unknowing to herself,
however, the small seeds of love had
been sown in her breast on that day when
they had met at the chestnuts, and had
impelled the wearing of his gift of bluebells.


At the mere sound of her name from his
lips she had looked up with a smile, and the
words rushed tumultuously from him.

Do you then love me a little, Mary ? "

And her own true self had spoken out,
when with uplifted face and clear tones she
had said unfalteringly —

I do nothing by little, Herbert."

"But you cannot love me much — not
much." His muscular hands grasped hers
till they almost winced, " not much ? " but
she, still looking at him, said —

I love you very dearly, Herbert," whereat
the marigold were scattered far and wide
as he clasped her to his breast.

I have found my hamadryad again ; she
is my own for ever — for ever ! "

Then they heard the gong again, when
they both, with hearts overrunning with
joy, knelt down to gather up the far-dispersed
marigold, the accomplishment of

VOL. I. N

wliicli, from many interruptions, was unavoidably
delayed.

'how good! how trustful! how generous
! " she exclaimed, as she raised her
head. " He asked no questions, he made
no cross-examinations, he did not inquire
whether I had ever known ' a previous
affection,' that stereotyped question of small
and jealous natures. You believe in me,
and I give you my whole self — my whole
self forthwith, and will follow you over the
whole world," and her gaze went forth from
the little window of her study, over the tall
tree tops to some distant land where she
imagined suddenly a home more free, a life
more buoyant. " I can do so much," she
cried aloud, as the bright future as she
imagined it, sunned her face ; '' he has yet
to learn that I am no mere bookworm."

In her delirium of love she forgot all the
means for the end; she thought not of his
mother, nor of Mrs. Hazelhurst, nor the half
pledge she had made elsewhere. She forgot
all for awhile in one half-hour's dream of
delight, but the whole train of responsibilities,
and a gnarl of duties to be unravelled
and made smooth, came back then with unmistakable
distinctness. Her lover was Mrs.

Hazelhurst's nephew, and Mrs. Hazelhurst,
her employer, had, as she well knew, destined
him for his cousin — her pupil — her much-beloved
Helen, with the approbation also of
his mother. As this truth burst vividly
upon her, her cheek blanched. '' But he has
never heard of the bond, and the child is
heart free. Oh, Helen ! my darling, had I
seen but the faintest glimmer of a nascent
affection in your young virginal heart I would
have ruthlessly extinguished that torch of
love so quickly lighted in your cousin's
breast; yes, ruthlessly, even to the blighting
of my life. Supplant you, dear child !
No, thank God, I have not supplanted you.
Had he and I never met I doubt if your
cousin would have loved you; but, had it,
could it have been otherwise, rather than
sow the seeds of sorrow in that sweet girl's
bosom, I might, God knows, have taken the
first remedy at hand, and might have married
Dr. Grantham, and lived out my life for ever
after for duty, for duty without the sun-gleams
of love. Passion never has, and never
shall rule me, nor lead me astray."

As she thought thus, calm again settled
upon her countenance — that same slightly
stern but sweet look, which sometimes dominated

over the habitually softer expression,
and which had led Dr. Grantham to compare
her to Athene.

Under this sobered mood she considered
what were her relations with Mrs. Hazel-hurst,
and resolved at once that whilst under
her roof, she would not again meet her
nephew as a lover, and determined, in order
to emancipate herself from the duties which
now seemed to her like heavy chains, to
write to Chippenham by that evening's mail,
and accept the offered post provisionally.
*' And to you, also, I must write, my dear old
friend, and open my heart, and tell you all the
honest truth ; but before God I did not lie to
you when I said to you on that bitter day —
so bitter for you and for me also — that I did
not love another man, though I could not be
your v^ife," and her eyes filled with tears.
I knew not, when I thus spoke, that my
heart was full of a newly-found love."

Gardening seems to suit you, Herbert,"
said Mrs. Hazelhurst, as the coffee was being
handed round after dinner. 'Tor the first
time since you have been down here your
brows are not contracted, and there is a
brightness in your eye and a glow upon your

cheeks that have never made their appearance
before. We must try the recipe again. Did
you find him a good gardener, Miss Myles ? "

It was not gardening that I was required
to do this morning, aunt," said the young
man, hastening to Miss Myles's rescue, " it
was more the work of a woodman ; and as it
only required strength, I was able to compete
successfully with Joe. I was told to cut
down the trunk of a tree, and I did cut it
down; so I presume that I may claim to
have achieved a success so far."

He looked across the table as he spoke as
if for approval.

A perfect success," said Mary, smiling.

"Your old pupil. Miss Myles," resumed
Mrs. Hazelhurstj " is actually coming home
for the remainder of his vacation — Reginald
Ashcroft," she said, turning to her nephew.
He seldom now, to the great vexation of
his parents, passes his holidays here ; but inconsequence
of a letter from his mother
acquainting him that you are now with us and
lovingly urging him to comply with his
father's and her wishes, he is actually coming
in a few days. We will then try and be a
little more gay ; it has been terribly dull for
you on account of Dr. Grantham's illness.

You will be very glad to see him, will you
not ? "

Yes," said Herbert, absently.

Why did Miss Myles blush ?

'* I do not think that you have seen him.
Miss Myles," continued Mrs. Hazelhurst,
'' since he won the honours which you
helped him to gain. I cannot imagine how
he could prove so ungrateful."

'' He was not ungrateful," said Mary, as
the blush died away, " for he gained the
honours I wished for him."

Mrs. Ashcroft tells me that he is to be
ordained deacon at the coming ordination,
and he has already got a curacy, whilst a
living is promised him at no distant date
after he has taken priest's orders. All your
doing. Miss Myles, for he was the idlest of
the idle until you took him in hand."

Mary faintly smiled, but did not raise her
eyes from the tablecloth.

Mrs. Hazelhurst had withdrawn her arm
from that of her nephew to caress her
favourite St. Bernard dog, and Helen had
run to the schoolroom to fetch some music,
so Herbert and Miss Myles had entered the
drawing-room together.

Did her eyes deceive her ? Was the hand
of her governess really resting upon her
nephew's shoulder as they stood side by
side in the bay window in earnest conversation
? Mrs. Hazelhurst paused ; the
white, well-formed hand was conspicuous
enough on his black coat, and it was not
hastily withdrawn as Mrs. Hazelhurst closed
the door with some force. It was Mrs.
Hazelhurst's turn now to colour, and that
she did vividly over both cheek and brow ;
but Mary did not blench under the half-indignant
and surprised look bent upon her.
She slowly turned from the window and
approached the chair into which Mrs. H?izel-
hurst had thrown herself, and drawing out a
low seat — one of those three-legged horrors
called a milking stool — sat herself down by
her side in silence ; for Mrs. Hazelhurst,
almost ignoring her presence, was looking
straight before her, wondering whether " a
woman of the people " — for she had never
become reconciled to that expression —
thought nothing of confidingly laying her
hand on a boy's shoulder. The burden of
Mrs. Hazelhurst's reflection was, "I thought
she had been more discreet."

Helen returning with her music, Herbert

at once walked to the piano to turn over the
leaves; and while she played with much
grace and fidelity Beethoven's charming
andante in F, the transient anger of Mrs.
Hazelhurst — with whom anger, as has been
already observed, was always transient —
evaporated, and she turned to Miss Myles
on the stool beside her.

'' Helen does you much credit, Miss Myles,
in her playing, as in everything else."

As she spoke she looked in the face of her
governess, which was raised to her, and for
the first time recognized what a beautiful
face it was — features, colour, and expression
all in such perfect harmony. She felt
annoyed, not pleased at this tardy discovery,
and glanced from her to the tall, well-developed
figure of her nephew. " Dear me,
he is a man of thirty compared with others
of his age," was the result of this investigation
; and the summing-up was, " No more
felling of trees in Miss Myles's garden."

It would do Helen very much good now
if you could take her abroad," were the
undertones which fell upon her ear.

'* I have thought so for some time, Miss
Myles, but hardly liked to mention it,
although it was included in some plans

which, unfortunately, Providence has not
destined should be fulfilled."

You have always been so kind, dear
Mrs. Hazelhurst," said Mary, laying one
hand on Mrs. Hazelhurst' s, which were
clasped together on her knees ; '' but all
your kind forbearance need no longer be
exercised to Helen's detriment. I have had
the offer of an appointment which will spare
you every anxiety on my account, and which
by my acceptance leaves us both perfectly
free."

Indeed ? May I ask to what you refer ? "
said Mrs. Hazelhurst, somewhat bewildered.

I am appointed, conditionally upon my
willingness to accept it, to the post of headmistress
at the Chippenham College for girls,
and I have accepted it, also conditionally."

Mrs. Hazelhurst would have preferred to
have taken the initiative in any projected
separation, a weakness common to human
nature both in employers and employed, so
she answered, with some slight touch of
asperity —

"When do you wish to leave. Miss Myles ? "

Your convenience and yours alone need
be consulted. It will be a wrench whenever
it takes place."

*' On both sides," said Mrs. Hazelhurst,
gently, as she patted her governess's hand.
Say nothing to Helen ; I will think it over."

After a few moments' silence, during
which their ears drank in the ebb and flow
of that pathetic strain. Miss Myles resumed
—

I feel that I can do nothing more for
dear Helen."

That assertion I cannot, and will not,
endorse, dear Miss Mj^les ; but for yourself,
it is no doubt much to be desired that you
should be placed where your classical knowledge
can be made available."

The last tender phrase of the closing
movement died away, and there was a
hushed and not unappreciative pause.
Herbert bent down smilingly to his cousin
and whispered praises in her ears. The girl
was pleased, but generously turned and
nodded to her governess, as if to say : '* It is
your doing," supplementing it with —

Come and sing ' Fascia, ch' io pianga,*
dear Miss Myles. Herbert has never heard
you sing anything that is really good."

'• Not to-night, dear Helen ; I am not
quite in the mood for singing. Give us
another of Beethoven's andante movements.

We are having a nice little chat here by ourselves,
and can listen to you all the same."

Mary looked up to Mrs. Hazelhurst for
approval, who smiled assent, and pressing
the hand laid in one of hers, warmed anew
to her governess on account of Helen's
delicate touch and rendering.

Herbert, however, crossed over from the
piano, and without saying a word put out
his hand with an air of gentle authority in
order to lead her to the instrument, and
Mary immediately obeyed, and resigning her
hand to him, rose and went to the piano in
silence. ^

Mrs. Hazelhurst saw it all.

Play the accompaniment for me, Helen
dear," she said, softly.

Helen had been taught to accompany, and
did so well. As the recitative ended, Mrs.
Hazelhurst involuntarily fixed her eyes upon
the singer.

*' Why, she is perfectly beautiful!" she said
to herself. " How was it that I never saw
it before ? It must be the change in wearing
her hair, and she has on that same creamy
Indian gown which she wore when she
finished off poor Dr. Grantham."

Mary's arm had stolen round Helen's

shoulders during the recitative. She was
moved, she felt that the burning enraptured
looks of the young man were
rivetted upon her face. To hide the emotion
which filled her eyes with tears, she stooped
her head low at the conclusion and kissed
Helen on the forehead.

'' Helen is a perfect accompanied," she said,
as waiving Herbert's offered hand she had
glided back to Mrs. Hazelhurst's side. " Do
you not think so, dear Mrs. Hazelhurst ? I
never sang with so much pleasure before."

Doubtless," said Mrs. Hazelhurst, dryly.

A temper known to those who, after long
And weary expectation, have been blessed
With sudden happiness beyond all hope.

Wordsworth.

So I shall see my old pupil again," said
Mary, when alone. " I suppose by this time
that he is heart-free, whole, and in his right
mind."

Even the best of women can hardly regard
with satisfaction that moment when a former
lover is supposed to have slipped off his
chains.

'' He has heard something from Mrs. Ashcroft,"
she continued, as if almost to excuse
him. " Doubtless she wrote and told him
that I was about to marry Dr. Grantham.
Ah ! that news would effectually blow away
any love sentiment still lingering in his

heart. But I am free from any blame as
regards him. I never gave him any hope.
I even think it would have been more in the
bounds of possibility to marry dear Dr.
Grantham rather than Reginald Ashcroft,
who ever remains in my memory as a
younger brother, and will, I think, always
seem to me a boy, until he emerges before
me some day a full-blown portly rector,
with a well-grown beard, if such be his
taste ; and yet I would rather not meet him
just now. I vexed him so by calling him a
boy ; he thought his youth was the only
obstacle — and now I have given my heart
to one two years his junior ! I hope he is
quite cured, otherwise he may think himself
injured; but between Reginald and Herbert,
who could halt before forming an opinion ?
ISTot I, certainly."

Yes, it was quite evident that Mrs. Ashcroft
had written to Reginald, and had told
him that she was engaged to be married to
Dr. Grantham. That was fully evident, and
the bonds that her fair-haired boy lover of
nearly five years back had made for himself
were loosed, and he was coming. Such was
the turn that Mary's musings took that
afternoon. He was now a man, and no

longer the lad of eighteen, who had told her
so quietly one morning —

All this hard work and poring over books
and striving after honours is only for one
purpose. I hate study as much as ever I
did. You can guess what it is, I suppose,
Miss Myles ? "

Miss Myles was at that moment absorbed
in correcting his theme, with eyes benton
the paper, and had not noticed that the
expression of his countenance was somewhat
more animated than the subject seemed to
demand, and therefore she only carelessly
answered, without raising her eyes —

There can be but one reason — you intend
to pass."

It means a good deal more than that,"
he said, stammering.

I am glad of that. You intend to pass
with honours. I thought you would be roused
at last," she said, smiling, as she dipped her
pen in the ink, still without looking up.

You have inked your white fingers with
that nasty pen of mine," said the boy, hurriedly,
getting a little flurried.

"Yes, it is a bad pen, certainly. But,
Reginald " — and here she raised her head
and regarded him with manifest surprise —

what is the matter with you this morning ?
If you are going to get nervous and begin to
stammer and blush at the viva voce examination
you will fare badly and disappoint us
all. But let go my fingers — see, you have
inked your own," and Miss Myles laughed.

Don't laugh at me. Can't you see —
cant you see — that I love you," cried the
boy, " and that I'm doing all this only for
you — only for you ! "

She looked at him wonderingly, but very
gravely — '' A mere boy," she thought.

Release my hand, Reginald, and go on
with your work. You are behaving very
foolishly."

Foolishly ! foolishly ! in loving you ! Of
course, you think I am only a boy, and you
despise me."

In considering you only a boy I make no
mistake, I think, and as for holding you in
contempt I must tell you, Reginald, that my
respect has been growing for you every day,
seeing how you have worked hitherto."

'' It is only on your account that I have
worked," said the boy, doggedly.

I have not troubled myself to investigate
on what account you have worked. You are
my pupil, and you must not trifle with my

time as you are now doing, or I shall thrown
all my responsibilities as regards you, and
leave the Yicarage tomorrow."

You are very hard and cold. Miss Myles !
Have you no feeling at all for me ? "

I have the greatest interest in you."

Nothing more ? "

"Well, affection, if you like that term
better, but we are wasting time."

You must know how beautiful you are,
Miss Myles. You must know a fellow
couldn't help falling in love with you. It
isn't my fault. Who could help it ? "

Pass me that lexicon," said Miss Myles,
coldly.

Do you think that some day you could —
well, do you think that when I am older you
would let me love you ?" he said, choking a
little.

I have never given that suggestion a
moment's thought, and am not disposed to do
so, Reginald."

How angry you are ! But suppose — ■
suppose I work twice as hard as ever and
get all kinds of honours, do you think that
then—"

I really do not know. Get the honours
first, Reginald, and then — "

VOL. I. o

Are you jeering me ? "

Miss Myles was touched at the tone.

'' I never jeer if I know it. Well, then, in
five or six years hence, when you have gained
all your honours, it will be quite time enough
to reconsider the question.

Then you do give me some hopes ?"

Yes, yes, on one condition, that for the
next few weeks — so long as I am your coach,
do you understand — you never again renew
this — " She was going to say folly, but
she checked herself. " Give me that book,
there's a dear boy."

Could anytliingbe more insulting to a youthful
lover than to be so addressed : " There's
a dear boy ?"

Reginald Ash croft had by nature an even,
sweet, and almost imperturbable temper, but
this was too much, he could not answer, and
his lip quivered.

Mary pushed away the books.

We will have no more study to-day ; tomorrow
you will be more reasonable, dear
Eeginald — let me so call you still ; you have
been in my heart like a younger brother.
You know how very recently I have lost my
mother. My mother was my all — parent,
brother, sister, friends, kith and kin — my

all. Now, see " — she laid the hand which he
had released upon his arm — " I came herewith
my heart full of grief. I found kind
friends in your father and mother, and a
brother, as I thought, in yourself, and a
younger brother, too, which was still better.
Four years, Reginald, make a great gap
between any woman and a boy ; but between
yourself and me a still greater gap than,
perhaps, with aiany others. I have lived
away from home. I have suffered. You
have known no sorrow : you have not even
had the discipline of the short separations
from home which boys have who have been
entirely educated at public schools ; so you
are more inexperienced and younger on that
account." She paused, and then with a
slight tremor in her voice, said, " Do not let
me lose you, Reginald."

'' You will let me love you, then ? And in
three or four years — "

Mary knitted her handsome brows.

"In three or four years there will be the
same obstacle as now. I shall still be as
many years your elder, and you will still be
very young."

Oh, I shall never change — never ! '' cried
the boy ; *' and if you don't see anyone you

like better — perhaps — well, for my part, I
swear that — "

*' Hush ! Here, take the sponge and wipe
off the ink stain your ill-conditioned pen has
made," and she held out her hand.

He wiped out the blot on the fair page,
but his young lips kissed the cleansed little
hand before he released it.

"That will do," said Mary, laughing;
"now it is over; and never again repeat this,
there's a dear boy."

That obnoxious phrase again ! And she
rose from the table to leave the room.

As she passed him where he sat, with
elbows on the table and his head in his hands,
she lightly laid one palm on his fair curls.

For my sake, work ; it will bring you
honour if it does not give you love."

And this episode was not repeated. Miss
Myles put in a little more of the rigidity of
manner which she could well assume when
needed, and it now stood her in good stead ;
but the boy treasured up those last words of
hers in his heart.

He gained the scholarship. Mr. and Mrs.
Ashcroft, in their gratitude, felt as if they
could almost worship the girl coach who had
so transformed their lazy Reginald into the

most indefatigable of workers, and the secret
was kept, and the successful candidate did
not betray himself.

Miss Myles had left the Vicarage immediately
upon a visit before entering on her
new engagement with Mrs. Hazelhurst. She
had carefully avoided any opportunity for
meeting, but a short note reached her from
Oxford.

"Dearest Miss Myles,

My success is yours. I am bound
to you for life.

Ever your grateful and devoted lover,

Reginald

To which Mary had answered almost as
briefly —

My Dear Reginald,

I rejoice with you from the depths
of my heart. I desire not to meet you for at,
least four or five years, and any gratitude
that you think you owe me will be best shown
by the observance of my wish. Meanwhile,
I consider myself quite free, and own no
bonds but those of sister and friend.
'' Your well-wisher,

"Mary Myles."
Reginald Ashcroft had, however, a dogged

pertinacity in his character. His boyish love
had none of the impassioned fire of Herbert's,
but it was tenacious : it held him to his work,
and it kept him safe from all temptations,
but it did not cost him sleepless nights. He
steadily set himself to work out a kind of programme
that he had made for himself. This
first success had so inspirited him that laziness
was no longer possible. Meanwhile he rowed
and he played cricket as well as studied ; he
had a sufficiently fair estimate of himself to
countenance a belief that eventually he should
succeed in making Mary Myles love him as a
natural and well-deserved sequel to his
constancy.

As months rolled into years his love took
the form of sentiment rather than passion,
but it was sentiment held with an obstinate
adherence. The praises so amply bestowed
upon his fair tutor by his father in almost
every letter kept her memory ever before
him in fresh and vivid colours. The time
was not weary — college life was very pleasant.
He took as much interest in his work,
and pursued so dogged and persistent a course
that, although it was not to be expected that
he would become a brilliant light there, yet
he took his degree, and sometimes dared to

think of a fellowship. It was a strange
position. He was obstinately determined
to keep his word till five years had passed.
He did not, now that he was older, think of
himself as the accepted lover of Mary Myles.
No other form had come before him to render
her less attractive than of old. He even
thought it possible, sometimes, perhaps probable,
that she might hereafter accept him, so
that, as far as he was concerned, there
seemed to be a likelihood that, if Miss Myles
did not bestow her affections elsewhere,
there would be another of those half-and-half
engagements which sometimes go on mouldering
year after year till youth merges into
middle age, whilst the promised benefice or
the expected post is still in abeyance.

Eeginald Ashcroft was in all things doing
that which his father most desired, and which
to please that father Miss Myles had so often
placed before him as an ultimate duty. He
intended to take holy orders. No disturbing
elements in reference to Mary often obtruded
themselves now. He knew that he could not
make her his wife at any very near period
if he should ultimately win her consent. He
hardly doubted that his constancy would meet
its due reward some day when his thoughts

went seriously in that direction, but meanwhile
he bad so much to do. He knew that
he must work harder than some men to get
the same results, and so he entirely gave
himself up to study in the quiet, persistent
way which was possible for him, and which
was first made evident when his heart was
set only upon winning the approval of his
girl instructress. But his mother had in no
slight measure disturbed this habitual equipoise
by announcing to him some weeks
previously that it was rumoured that Dr.
G-rantham was on the eve of proposing to Miss
Myles, and that it was confidently believed
that his proposals would be well received.

It was a momentary shock to his sense of
justice, and it shook a little his exalted
estimation of the character of a woman who
had lost none of the attributes of his ideal,
although he could imagine sometimes the
possibility after all that she might never be
his wife, and that he might eventually call
another lady by that name. Dr. Grantham
was wealthy. Could Mary Myles, with that
noble brow and those clear eyes, be mercenary
? He had thought her the personification
of the very spirit of poetry. Could
there be any gleam of such a realization in

portly Dr. Grantham ? He had the advantage
of age, certainly, and he recalled with
some annoyance how he had been repeatedly
apostrophized as " a dear boy."

He was disappointed.

'' Of course she was not bound to me in the
slightest way. She was free, and quite free
to marry Dr. Grantham. But I did not
think it of her," he said, half aloud, and
then he thought how very loyal he had been
to her every wish — how for four years he had
avoided meeting her. '' There is no occasion todo
so any longer," he said, testily; '' I am no
longer bound by anything I said, and therefore
I shall go and finish off my holidays at the
Vicarage with the dear old folks at home ! "

And this decision was hardly arrived at,
when another letter, evidently hastily written,
came from his mother telling him that it was
all a mistake, that there had never been an
engagement, and that Dr. Grantham had
gone abroad for some time, adding —

The gloom that has been enveloping us
all on account of Dr. Grantham's ill-health
has vanished before the prospect of seeing our
dear boy at last. We are all so glad that you
are coming before Herbert leaves, but we have
seen little or nothing even of him as yet."

Tantsene animus collections frae ?

Virgil.

Mrs. Langeidge was sitting at her breakfast-table.
Some newspapers and a pile of letters
had been brought in and were lying beside
her. She hastily tossed them all aside to see
if there was one amongst them from her
dear boy." Yes, there was one underneath
all the others, when it ought to have been on
the top. What were a thousand letters from
friends compared to one from him? The
handsome woman, still in the prime of life,
smiled a happy satisfied smile, as she tore
open the envelope, and leaned back in her
chair the more thoroughly to enjoy the
perusal of its contents, slowly drinking in
each precious word.

I suppose he will tell me here on what
day he intends returning," she said, half

aloud, ere lie began to read the following
lines : —

My Dearest Mother,

You. have often twitted me with
being ' prosaic ' matter-of-fact,' as not
having * a grain of poetry in me,' with other
like phrases. You will not need to call me so
any longer. I have awakened to that higher
life, and breathe in a new atmosphere. Not
to keep you in suspense, dear, dear and best
of mothers, I am in love — in love, too, with
the sweetest type of womanhood the world
has ever seen. You will love her almost as
much as I do — if that be possible, for she is
far dearer to me than my own life — but,
anyhow, you will, and must, love her, firstly,
because you are an admirer of all that is
high-minded and noble, and secondly, because
you must needs love one who is part of my
own life. I almost think I was possessed by
the very genius of poetry the very moment I
beheld her, for fancy, dearest mother, it was
a veritable wood-nymph I fell in love with —
a wood-nymph asleep on the grass !

Happily for me I had to descend from
the exalted pedestal of loving a creature of
some other sphere, for I soon found out to
my everlasting joy that she was a veritable

woman. I could not have married a hama-dryad,
you know ; but I am pledged to marry
sweet Mary Myles, for the wood-nymph
turned out to be Helen's governess. Miss
Myles is two or three years older than I am,
I believe, which is a good thing, you will say,
as I suppose I am ' over young ' to contemplate
matrimony. Nevertheless, I do intend
to marry the moment I reach one-and-twenty.
I know that you will rejoice with me in my
happiness, and do your utmost to forward it,
you best of all possible mothers ! I long to
introduce you to Mary, and as I knew that it
was my duty to tell this news to you first, I
have said nothing to my aunt, and shall
await your reply before doing so. But why
can you not come over — that would be better
still? Miss Myles is as pretty as she is
accomplished. Pretty, do I say ? That is
not the word. She is as beautiful as a
Grecian statue, with the fresh loveliness of
an Englishwoman superadded. I believe she
is also very, very learned, but I only know her
as an angel. I think 1 shall be blessed above
all men to call two such women as yourself and
her, mother and wife.

Ever your devoted son,

Herbert."

Mrs. Langridge had opened this letter with
a smile. The smile was suddenly quenched
at the fifth line.

You goose," she said, pausing, " I did
not want you to begin love-making thus
prematurely. I suppose it has happened
through my sister's imprudence in throwing
the young people too much together. How
tiresome ! He'll be wanting to get engaged to
Helen before he does anything else ; and how
can my sister let the girl go to sleep on the
grass in that fashion ! I thought she had
more sense than that, anyhow ; but Helen is
terribly spoilt."

Knitting her brows impatiently she read
on till she came to '' sweet Mary Myles ! "
With anger and consternation she sprang
from her chair and laid her hand on the bell,
her first impulse being to send a telegram
requiring Herbert's immediate return ; but
Mrs. Langridge was not in her nature either
impulsive or rash.

'' Mary Myles ! " she said, contemptuously,
and paused.

Such anger as now coursed through her
veins she had never felt before. Her life had
been prosperous and smooth. She had ruled
with unquestioned sway the whole household

before she married. In her short married
life she had been the most benevolent of
despots, and her darling Herbert, the sole
reminder of that brief and golden epoch, had
never revolted from her authority either in
childhood or boyhood, nor had recognized any
other law but her supreme will, confident ashe
became older that she had only one object
in life — his happiness, his success. He knew
that his mother would give him all he desired,
and his high aims and purity of purpose had
always gone hand in hand with what she
most hoped and wished for — for him. And
in his eyes, every honour that he had won,
every success that he had achieved, seemed to
be for her, and through her; and thus he so
identified each aspiration, each wish of his
own with hers, that he never conceived that
there could possibly come a time when there
would be some point where their ideas would
diverge. As yet he had had no temptation
to speculate upon such a possibility occurring.
His sphere hitherto, although intellectually
broad, had been peculiarly narrow in all
experience of worldly affairs even for his
age. He only knew of one world — the world
hemmed in by his school and college life.
Mrs. Langridge took her hand off the bell.

** No, no," she said, the usual imperious
manner returning to her, 'this matter is
soon settled ; but what an idiot the dear boy
is to suppose that I — "

A Hfctle scornful laugh cut short her
remark.

"Sweet Mary Myles " ! she said, hissing
out each word separately from closed lips,
and then drawing near her writing-table,
unheeding her breakfast, she wrote to her
sister thus —

Dear Kate,

I enclose you a letter received from
Herbert this morning. It reads to me aa if
written by a lunatic, but judge for yourself,
and afterwards lose no time in sending that
person alluded to out of your house. Say
nothing to Herbert, as I shall be with you a
few hours after you receive this communication.


Your affectionate

Elinor."

Mrs. Langridge immediately ordered that
this short note, insolent alike in its character
and tone, should at once be taken to the
post. She knew that it was insolent, and
she knew that in another half hour her ladylike

instincts would have prevailed over her
anger, and she would have committed it to
the flames; but at this moment her anger
against her sister was stronger than any-other
feeling.

And this was the letter, which brought
to Mrs. Hazelhurst in her dressing-room
the next morning, caused her almost
unexampled absence from the breakfast
table. It brought her an inexpressible
sense of disappointment and grief. Had
it come some two or three days since it
would have overwhelmed her with surprise
and mortification ; but she had been
prepared, in some slight measure, for the
blow. She had not thought, however, that
it had gone so far; she deemed that her perceptions
were acute, and that she had herself
seen the very first lapse into what was,
at the most, an incipient flirtation. She
burst into tears as her cherished designs
thus seemed in danger of overthrow ; but a
feeling of anger dried her tears almost as
soon as they were shed. In our greatest
sorrows there often comes an unexpected
solace from the most trifling incidents, and
perhaps there is no greater consoler for
the moment than a suddenly-aroused indignation.

And Mrs. Hazelhursb's indignation
was deeply aroused by the tone of her sister's
letter. Sbe had been accustomed throughout
her whole life to succumb to Mrs. Lanorridsre,
but the high pressure so continuously maintained
had of late somewhat raised the temperature
of Mrs. Hazelhurst's forbearing
nature to a certain level bordering upon
resistance. As for her nephew, there was
everything in him that promised well ; but
he had all to gain, and was it fair or reasonable
that Mrs. Laugridge should always treat
the hoped-for marriage as if her dear Helen
and she herself would be the only gainer ?
Helen with her good looks and her fortune —
Helen, who might command a man who had
not his spurs to win ! It was often more
than she could bear, and displeased as she
was with the conduct of Herbert and Miss
Myles, Mrs. Langridge this morning came in
for fully an equal share of censure.
Send that person out of the house."
What possible right had her sister to dictate
to her in that arrogant style, and of
whom was she speaking ? Of her scullery
maid ? If it had been that individual, would
she even then have any right to assume so
authoritative a tone, or to order the dismissal
VOL. I. p

of the very lowest menial in a house not her
own? "This is the result of my always
having yielded to her. It is ever the case with
people like her — the more you give in to them,
the more intolerable they become. ' That
person ! ' " It was, therefore, owing to Mrs.
Langridge having absorbed the stronger rays,
that a very small flickering of anger was left
to be expended on the chief offender.

Will you tell Miss Myles that I shall be
very glad to see her if she will kindly come
here to my room after breakfast ? "

Such was the courteously modified request
conveyed to Miss Myles, which received a
very early response, in person.

My mother has had a letter from aunt
this morning, Herbert. I believe she is
coming to-day herself. I hope she is not
intending to carry you off."

What time will she be here ? " cried
Herbert, eagerly.

I think it will not be before the afternoon,
but my mother seems to have a great deal to
think of this morning, and was not disposed
to be communicative. That is why she is
keeping her room."

Then we will have our ride this morning,

Helen, and we will call and take luncheon at
the Vicarage, as we promised to do, after
which we will both canter off to the station,
and have the first look at my dear mother.
Will that suit you, cousin ? How glad I am
to be sure ! "

Helen knew nothing of the mental reserve
which covered the real source of gladness,
she merely thought it one of the many evidences
of his filial love that made his face
brighten up with joy.

I wonder that my mother did not write
to me too," he said, as they galloped off
together. •

And Mrs. Hazelhurst actually rose as Mary
entered — rose and advanced to meet her,
and retained the proffered hand, whilst her
own trembled violently.

You are not well, dear Mrs. Hazelhurst,"
said the latter, tenderly, and with manifest
anxiety.

I am not well. Miss Myles, but be seated,"
as she again sank back into her chair and
pointed to a seat placed near her own ; " I am
pained, very much pained, at some most
unexpected, unwelcome news." Tears were
again rising, and as Mrs. Hazelhurst felt that

she should completely break down in any
attempt to introduce the matter gently, she
laid Mrs. Langridge's letter and enclosure in
Miss Myles's hand.

There, take this letter and read for
yourself, and then you will see why I am so
deeply, deeply pained. Read."

Mrs. Hazelhurst folded her hands on her
lap and least back wearily. Mary hastily
looked at Herbert's letter, and gave a slighter
glance at the note of Mrs. Langridge, but
she saw enough, and a proud look of resistance
in her face was the result. She slowly
and carefully refolded them, and laid them
on Mrs. Hazelhurst's lap.

Those letters were not intended for my
sight, Mrs. Hazelhurst," was her sole remark.

I could not trust myself to speak to you,.
Miss Myles. It is true then ! I am pained
beyond all measure."

My engagement to Mr. Herbert Langridge
is true beyond all doubt, Mrs. Hazel-hurst,
if you refer to that."

*' Miss Myles ! " cried Mrs. Hazelhurst^
warmly, " it cannot be sustained — it cannot
be sustained — you must know that it cannot
be sustained ; you see what my sister writes."

"What Mrs. Langridge has written was

not addressed to myself. I am very sorry
that upon my account such a tone has been
employed towards you. That gives me pain,
Mrs. Hazelhurst, and I feel for you deeply."

Mrs. Hazelhurst might well feel that she
was not equal to the task of catechising her
governess for the sin of entangling her
nephew, as her sister considered it.

*' Mrs. Langridge is coming to-day, as you
perceive. Will you speak to her yourself ?
I am in no condition to argue with her, as
is evident. Will you see her yourself ? "

Mary was silent for some time.

I do not consider, Mrs. Hazelhurst, that
I am in any way called upon to see Mrs.
Langridge ; it is with her son only that it is
befitting for her to confer. I do not say this
in consequence of that sentence in her note
upon which my eyes unfortunately fell ; I
put that aside as if I had not seen it. The
insult, if insult were intended, is not to me,
and is unheeded by me ; but I do not know
Mrs. Langridge, and I do not recognize her
right to arraign me at the bar of her maternal
jurisdiction."

But, my dear Miss Myles, you must
confess that both she and I have cause for
great dissatisfaction at what has occurred."

If I had thought so it would never have
occurred."

"Well, I cannot enter into it with you ; it
is too painful. I cannot understand how you
can be so calm about it. I dread to meet
my sister, Mrs. Langridge, in her present
mood."

"If it will spare you, I will take upon
myself the whole weight of Mrs. Langridge's
wrath. She will, doubtless, soon be mollified.
There are some people who put down the
most offensive things on paper, but who are
quite harmless individuals nevertheless."

Mrs. Hazelhurst in her inmost self felt
rather gratified than otherwise at the tone
of scornful-indifference which Miss Myles
assumed in respect to Mrs. Langridge. So,
as she rose, it was with no ungentle look
that she regarded her, but rather with one
of great surprise.

*' I can hardly understand you ; you do
not seem to realize — "

She hesitated.

Mary Myles took Mrs. Hazelhurst's hand
in both hers and raised it to her lips.

I only realize one fact just now, and that
is that Herbert Langridge loves me. That
happy truth covers all my present horizon.

Perfect Jove casteth out fear; there is no
room in my heart for misgivings." And she
looked into Mrs. Hazelhurst's face with
luminous, unclouded eyes.

"I do not wonder that you are unwell,
Kate," said Mrs. Langridge, after the first
greetings had been exchanged ; " but you
must feel grateful for my advice to send her
away directly. I am convinced that it was
the best thing to do, although I had some
doubts about you because of your mistaken
judgment respecting the person in question.
In my opinion, it only aggravates the case.
It is a most shameless piece of ingratitude
after the very exceptional courtesy
and consideration you have always shown
her."

Miss Myles has not gone ; she does not
leave here until she enters upon her new
appointment," was the answer. Mrs. Hazel-hurst
had been fortified somewhat by her
interview with her governess, and she added,
It would have been a monstrous and 
thing had I done as you suggested;
but I never dreamt of so doing."

Surely, Kate, you have not passed discover
in silence ? "

*' Certainly not. I have had some conversation
with Miss Myles."

'well?"

Miss Myles is willing to see you herself."

See me herself ! For what purpose ?
She must be a bold, unprincipled woman ! "

*' She is nothing of the kind, Elinor; nor
did she desire any interview with yourself
except for my sake, to spare me the unavoidable
excitement of arranging this affair with
Herbert and you."

Is Herbert at home ? Does he contemplate
coming in with her hand in hand, and
asking my blessing, poor dear fellow ! "

'herbert is not within, Elinor; he is outwith
Helen, and Miss Myles is at home and
disengaged. If you wish not to see her, say
so, and I will send Bowles to inform her to
that effect, and in that case she will probably
walk over to the Vicarage for dinner; there,
a warm welcome always awaits her. I think
you will hardly like to meet her at dinner
without first knowing in what relations you
stand to each other."

There is no difficulty about that, I should
think, and governesses are not generally supposed
to be essential requisites at the dinner
table. I will see her, however, as you have

so arranged it, and put things on a proper
footing before Herbert returns."

"It will be far better, Elinor; and if you
will kindly go into the library I will acquaint
Miss Myles that you are there, and expecting
Her."

I suppose, being from Girton, that she
is not given to hysterics?" said Mrs. Langridge,
scornfully.

She is not given to hysterics, Elinor.
Except in this most imprudent and unhappy
business, I have always had every reason to
estimate her as a — "

Very superior person ; a remark that I
have often heard you make regarding her,
the fallacy of which opinion is now evident."

Mrs. Hazelhurst bit her lip.

Mrs. Langridge had raised her eye-glass as
Miss Myles entered the room, but she dropped
it hastily at the first glance, which took in
the whole personality of the governess, with
•a gesture which unconsciously expressed
regret at having subjected the object of it to
such an investigation. She looked down fora
moment at an open letter lying upon the
table before her as if to recover from that,
her equanimity which had experienced a little

shock. Miss Myles, the governess, was not
exactly what she had been picturing ta
herself.

Miss Myles, I believe. Pray be seated'*
and she graciously waved her hand to a
chair.

Thank you, but I prefer to stand, Mrs.
Langridge," answered Mary, coldly.

It is rather an unpleasant duty which I
have to perform, Miss Myles, and which, if
it had been possible, I would have avoided."

And Miss Myles, her sister's governess,.
was standing erect before her, with calm,
clear eyes, looking full into her face, and did
not seem to be one whit ashamed.

I have reason to believe, Miss Myles,
from a most extraordinary letter that I received
from my son yesterday morning, that
he has made you an offer of marriage."

He has done so, Mrs. Langridge."

"And the same letter leads me to suppose,"
continued Mrs. Langridge, in dry, incisive
tones, taking the letter from the table
before her, and applying her eye-glass to the
passage, as if for the purpose of verifying
the remark, " that — that — you have — accepted
him?"

Mrs. Langridge let the letter fall back onto

the table, and relinquishing her eye-glass,
looked at her severely.

*' I have," said Mary, without lowering her
eyes.

Did you think yourself justified in so
doing ? " said Mrs . Langridge, with some
asperity.

Perfectly so."

And Mary, though her voice was sweet
and low, and in strong contrast to that of
Mrs. Langridge, drew back her head as she
uttered those words.

May I ask your reasons for thinking
so ? " continued Mrs. Langridge, in a sarcastic
tone.

'' Because I love him."

Really, you are very frank," cried Mrs.
Langridge, contemptuously, looking at her
this time through her eye-glass. " T infer
from this, that my poor boy told you that he
loved you, and that you believed him. A
person doubtless of some experience in such
matters ought nevertheless to have known
what worth attaches to a boy's love-making."

Mary regarded Mrs. Langridge in silence,,
but the fire was being kindled.

Mrs. Langridge, thinking she had made a
successful thrust, was encouraged to pursue

her supposed advantage, and continued with
a still further measure of scorn —

I don't pretend to be able to analyze the
feelings which you avow with such unnecessary
frankness — to give it the mildest term
it is capable of — but whatever your belief or
your convictions may be as regards my son,
you will please to consider them as null from
this moment. My son is a minor, a mere
schoolboy, and quite inexperienced. He has
yielded to the fascinations of a lady many
years older than himself, possibly an expert
in such little affairs, one who well knows
that very young men, boys, rather, are easily
entangled when beauty weaves the meshes''
Mrs. Langridge having looked up for a
moment had almost involuntarily been betrayed
into those last words. Beneath the
look that she encountered she paused,
thinking this tribute to the charms of the
woman before her would remove the sting
from her words. As, however, they evoked
no answer, she continued with an impatient
toss of the head —

Anyhow, my son returns with me tomorrow.
The sooner this ridiculous affair is
brought to a close the better for all concerned.
As a preliminary, I demand peremptorily,

as his mother and his guardian,
the restoration of all gifts and love letters,
if my poor boy has been so absurd as ta
write any," and Mrs. Langridge gave a little
laugh.

Mary's face was aflame, and at last she
spake with her tongue.

Gifts ! love letters ! You know not what
manner of woman I am, Mrs. Langridge, or
you would have hesitated before speaking
thus. Had I ' gifts or love letters ' do you
think I would surrender them at such bidding?
Do you dare to insinuate that, because
I am nearly six years older thg,n
Herbert Langridge, that it is I who have
sought to inveigle him ; that it is I who
have wooed and won him — I who have tried
to entangle — to entangle him ? You insult
your son whilst you are insulting me. Herbert
Langridge has given me the first love
of a true and fervent heart, and he has
mine. Yes, I am his, and he is mine.
We are pledged to marry, and we have
sealed it with a kiss, and as sure as God
reigns in heaven I will not renounce him at
the bidding of anyone until he shows himself
unworthy of my love."

Mrs. Langridge had not expected this outburst.

From the moment of Mary's entrance
she had steeled herself, as it were, against the
prepossessing figure before her, by rivetting
her eyes upon her son's disturbing letter,
where the obnoxious words, '' sweet Mary
Myles," stood in bold revolt before her ; but
under this apparent defiance of the governess
she pushed the letter aside, and regarded her
steadily, and for a few moments there was
silence.

Mrs. Langfridofe had the feelings of an
artist. As her eyes dwelt upon the woman
standing there, she took in at a glance what
a noble picture she made. After the unwonted
display of passionate feeling in her
last utterances, Mary had turned her head
towards the partially open window, as if she
sought the calming influence of Nature.
The poise of the head, the long lines of dark
blue drapery that fell in soft folds round her
faultless figure, only confined at the waist by
an antique silver clasp of choice design, the
classical arrangement of the rich hair, whose
warm brown tints were heightened by the
fireglow of a July sunset, the deep golden
rays of which bathed also cheek and brow in
that tone of colour which all the works of the
old Italian painters exhibit, leading one to

the conclusion that it was chiefly under the
light of a setting sun that their glowing
effects were obtained, absorbed her.

Mrs. Langridge's thoughts were abstracted
for a few moments from the purpose of the
interview, as her gaze was rivetted upon the
whole outline of the form before her. She
had surely seen some resemblance to it in —
was it not one of Giorgione's pictures ?
Whilst she strove to recall it, Mary turned
her head, and the spell was broken. Against
her will Mrs. Langridge's artistic instincts
had paid a tribute of admiration. She suddenly
felt a new access of irritation from that
unwilling admission of another self within
her, and with still greater asperity and
haughtiness she remarked —

I did not come here to listen to mock
heroics from a lady professor, nor do I
choose to have a scene with my sister's
governess."

*did you then expect, Mrs. Langridge,
that I should throw myself on your mercy,
and make my confession — I have sinned — I
have sinned exceedingly — through my fault
through my fault — through my most grievous
fault."

How aggravating was the quiet intonation

how more than aggravating the smile that
accompanied those words ! Did that governess
hugh her to scorn and defy her ?

Anofer was suroinof at the heart of the
elder woman, anger in which hatred was
mingled. Here was not one whom she could
bring into subjection by contempt wherewith
the weak can be overthrown. Admiration
can find no entrance where we despise, but it
is possible to hate what we admire. Mary,
however, regretting that any show of emotion
had been forced from her, was inwardly
resolving that feeling, however outraged,
should not have entire sway. Mrs. Langridge
meanwhile almost cursed the woman before
her for all those physical and mental gifts
which were a vindication of her son's infatuation,
as she termed it. She looked down.
'' This governess is not to be coerced," she felt
rather than said.

"You did not allow me to finish my
sentence. Miss Myles. I came here as a
mother who was anxious only for the welfare
of her son. Surely you will admit that a
mother has some claim to attention in such a
matter."

Mary started.

Mother is a sacred name for me. Speak

to me as a mother only, and I will listen
reverently."

*' Then as the mother and sole guardian of
Herbert Langridge, I must tell you that what
his career in life is to be, depends upon me,
and upon me alone. He has no means of his
own ; none but what lie derives from me.
All hopes of his success are irretrievably lost
if you do not release him, and the boy whom
you seem so resolutely determined to hold to
his vows will be a be2:o:ar."

"Am I to understand, Mrs. Langridge,
that you could contemplate cutting off this
career by withholding the means so entirely
at your disposal ? "

Most decidedly."

*' No man need be a beggar who marries
me," said Mary, gently, " even were he not
Herbert Langridge ; but for him the possibility
of poverty is a bugbear."

Mrs. Langridge raised her eye-glass. So
bold a statement, so fearlessly put, required
some explanation, and she evidently expected
one, but none came.

You will excuse me for observing. Miss
Myles, that your position here warrants me in
supposing that you have no other funds at
your disposal than those derived from an

VOL. I. Q

arduous and not usually remunerative employment
; and for my son, if you have deceived
yourself into a conviction that as his wife
you would not be necessitated to earn your
own livelihood, it was a miserable delusion.
T am at a loss, therefore, to understand your
assertion, after what I have told you, that
your marriage with my son would not be
absolute beggary."

'' We have both health, and I suppose,
notwithstanding my six years' seniority, I
may venture to say, youth. We are both able
in body and mind. There is no work which
I, at least, despise. We are one in all our
thoughts and aspirations, and the world is
before us. I repeat, that hand linked with
hand, and heart joined to heart, we can both
afford, with Grod's grace, to laugh at the word
beggary."

Mrs. Langridge leant back in her chair.

"Miss Myles, I thank you for the lucid
exposition of your views. You have been
pleased to give me a short compendium of
what you deem your own and my son's
qualifications for matrimony ; and evidently
you have no hesitating opinion as regards
your own. The only sensible deduction,
however, which I am able to draw therefrom

is that you actually contemplate — yes, actually
and gravely contemplate converting my
poor boy into a schoolmaster ! A very respectable
occupation, doubtless, and one in
which you could prove to him a very useful
assistant; but such a position, Miss Myles,
with all due deference to your judgment, is
not for my son."

A slight smile flickered for a moment over
Mary's face.

'' I find myself, Mrs. Langridge, in what
would be an unwonted position for any
woman, but for me, with all my past modes
of thought and habits of life, it is so much at
variance, that I must needs smile, though in
no light or laughing mood. What ! am I
pleading for my fitness to be his wife to the
mother of the man who loves me ? 'No I it is
too much ; I rather prefer to hear you plead
as a mother, with what you deem the
mother's privilege to veto her son's right
to choose his own wife."

'' Thank you. Miss Myles, so far. I entirely
waive the consideration of your personal
fitness, and, as you have suggested, I will
stand solely upon my right as a mother — as a
mother who has sacrificed herself for twenty
years for her son, and who now demands

from him in return, filial gratitude and
obedience. Left a widow when I was buta
girl of twenty-one — mind you, a girl of
twenty-one — to whom her husband, untimely
stricken down, left all his property unreservedly
and unhampered by trustees. Sole
guardian of his infant son — almost the last
exhortation, the last wish uttered by his
dying lips was, that I should marry again,
and so redeem him from the wrong of having
unwittingly been the cause of blighting my
girlhood when he made me his wife.

* I promised you wealth and position, poor
girl,' were among those solemn words, ' and I
leave you a widow with a babe to bring up ;
but I die happy because I have brought
myself to consider your future marriage not
only with composure, but with joy, as a
necessary and most desirable event. I trust
to your own good sense and judgment not to
imperil my boy's future by a rash choice ; but
I impose upon you no conditions. My entire
property — not a large one, as you know — is
unreservedly yours. May God bless you,
and may the man you marry, respect my
memory for the trust I place in him, and bea
father to my boy.'

To you I have spoken of matters of which
even my son is ignorant. I would not
oppress his youth with an overburthening
sense of obligation ; he knows nothing of how
the property is left. I was young, I was
handsome ; I had a competent income, and
only one child, and that a boy. Believe me,
I did not wait for suitors, and — I now confess
it — my heart did not remain untouched.
But what did I do ? What? Why, I crushed
down love, hopes, all. I would not risk
giving the child of the generous husband of
my youth, a step-father. What it cost me
only God and myself knew ; no, not even
my sister ever guessed the price at which
I earned my son's gratitude. I devoted
myself wholly to that boy — wholly — and this
was my consolation — he should go to the
Bar, he should be a leader of men, he should
make a name, and his dead father's should
live again in him ; and when time had brought
the fulfilment of my hopes I could contemplate
still further abrogating myself, and
would have been content to resign the first
place in his affections to the wife whom he
should choose, but that wife — "

*' Must not be Miss Myles, the governess*'

*' You have interrupted me, Miss Miles ;
but you are right — it must not — it cannot be
Miss Myles, the governess'

"As a mother, could you be happy in
imperilling the happiness of your son ?"

Believe me. Miss Myles, that at his age
such wounds are easily healed."

It is character, not age, that determines
the depth of feeling."

My son is not a fool, Miss Myles. Men
who spoil their whole lives for a first love
may be capable of intense emotion, but they
are but poor weak creatures when all is said
and done. My son is not one of such. He
will suffer awhile as I suffered, but he will
conquer as I conquered, and now, Miss Myles,
judge yourself whether you or I have the
best right to the possession of Herbert Langridge
? "

There was silence. Mary's hand, which
had lain lightly on the back of the nearest
chair, grasped it convulsively. It was but
momentary. Clearly, without faltering, came
the words at last —

The first right, Mrs. Langridge, if you
stand upon your right, is incontestably with
you."

She bowed her head low, and turned away.

As her hand touched the handle of the door
Mrs. Langridge said, in softened tones —

Miss Myles," but Mary stayed not, and
the door closed behind her.

'' My dear Kate, my dear Kate, what
could you be thinking of when you engaged
that woman for your daughter? If you had
no discriminating judgment, where were your
eyes ? "

Mrs. Hazelhurst, who had been in a most
nervous state of suspense during the interview,
had hastened to her sister so soon as
Miss Myles left the library.

Elinor," she answered, gravely, " I can
well understand and sympathize with your
annoyance, but not with the tone you take in
this unfortunate affair. Miss Myles, in every
respect — well, I've always considered her a
most unexceptionable character."

Where were your eyes ? " repeated Mrs.
Langridge.

'' What do you mean, Elinor ? "

'' Why, you do not mean to say that you
don't know that your Miss Myles is one of
the most beautiful of women, and therefore
upon that account alone is a most unfit person
to enter into any family as a governess."

"Really, Elinor, it never struck me until
quite lately that she was anything out of the
common. I thought her nice-looking, that
was all, and I choose to have nice-looking
people around me. She always seemed to me
to have no style, to be rather prim ; in fact,
as I have often said, quite the governess''

If ever she did appear in that light it
was put on, and as for style, she has plenty
and to spare — not the style of the fashion-books,
certainly, but she is a dangerous
woman ! "

My dear Elinor ! — "

And not over discreet in her choice of
words," continued Mrs. Langridge, with
asperity ; " ' bugbear ' was not a word in use
among refined gentlewomen when we were
girls. I hope Helen does not indulge in the
word * bugbear,' and I hope Helen has not
been initiated into Judaism by this Girton
governess of yours, for her frank outspoken
talk above love and kisses was decidedly
Ouidaish."

'' My daughter Helen," said Mrs. Hazel-hurst,
with an assumption of dignity, " is in
herself a vindication of Miss Myles."

Have not my son and Helen yet
returned ? "

I think that at this moment they are
entering the gate; but has there been no
result to your long interview ? How did
Miss Myles bear your reproaches ? ''

In the best possible way, for she will
release Herbert from his engagement."

'' She is a good woman, say what you like,
Elinor'*

She must have loved her own mother very
much," said Mrs. Langridge, half in soliloquy.

The door was flung impetuously open.

My dear mother ! my dear dear mother ! "
and her son rushed to her and clasped her in
his strong arms, kissing her on brow and
cheek with passionate eagerness. " How
kind this is ! " He pushed her gently from
him, and held her off by each shoulder that
he might look into her face. '' Have you
seen Mary?" he asked, in tones that seemed
to come from innermost heart depths.
•" Have you been introduced to Miss Myles ?
Have you seen my Mary ? "

I have not seen your Mary, but I have
seen Miss Myles."

*' Well ! and what is your verdict upon
Miss Myles?" he said, laughing gaily.

That she is not a fit person to be your
wife."

Mother ! " He released her shoulders
from his firm but loving grip, and recoiled
two or three paces.

** You foolish boy ! but there are some
excuses to be made for you, only your
flirtation went a little too far. But it is over,
and let all remembrance of it be buried at
once."

'' My dearest mother ! " said Herbert, in a
less exalted tone, " I thought I put it very
clearly. I should not have insulted you by
telling you of a flirtation if I were light-minded
enough to indulge in one; but — but —
I told you — Miss Myles is my future wife. I
wrote to you that you might lose no time
in knowing her, in loving her as your
daughter."

The mother and son looked at each other ;.
both seemed to find in that onlook something
they had not seen before.

'* On this matter I will have no arguments
with my son. I will never give my consent
to any such marriage either now or at any
future time. I have a mother's right to do
so, and I will enforce it."

Mother, I grieve to say it to you, but
when you are unjust and unloving, as now,.

you have not right with you, and I refuse to
acknowledge a motherhood so repellent."

Her Herbert defiant ! Was it not an
instinctive dread when she shrank from the
influence of such a woman over her only
child ?

"Your Miss Myles has shown a truer
appreciation of a mother's right, and has
released you from all that was wrung from
your weakness."

The breath of the young man came short
and quick. He caught his mother by the
arm, and said hoarsely —

*' What do you mean, mother ? Mary is as
true as gold ; Mary has promised to be my
wife."

Miss Myles shall tell you with her own
lips that you are free ; for myself, I tell you
that never whilst I live will I see that woman
your wife."

Put not the grave between us, mother."

Better the grave than that ! "

A note for Mr. Langridge."

Herbert took it from the salver handed to
him, and when the servant closed the door
on leaving the room, he tore it open.

** Meet me at the chestnuts ; I await you

there."

Herbert rose.

Miss Myles seeks a meeting, mother."

Go, and she will tell you your duty."

Mother, you must needs pay some

tribute to her worth ; I thank you."

I could not love thee, dear, so much
Loved I not honour more.

Lovelace.

And Mary stood waiting for her lover by the
tall chestnut tree, under whose spreading
branches she had laid herself down that July
morning some two or three weeks ago, heart
free, and rejoicing in the wayward liberty of
the hour — not as now with the shadows drawing
round it, but as it was then. She saw
it all again under sunlit noon, even to the
bright-winged moth who had soothed her
into slumber by the contemplation of its
beauty. She leant against the trunk; she
was paler than usual, and weary in spirit.
All through the day there had been constant
demands for an outward composure, a continual
strain upon her nerves in her endeavours

to hide away the strong tumultuous
passion throbbing at her very heart's core.

Now, as she awaited this greater trial, she
could not but confess to herself that she had
failed in her encounter with Mrs. Langridge.
She had gone without flinching to confront
the angry mother, proud in her own boasted
serenity of spirit, thinking that she bore
about her an aegis that should ward off all
the shafts of scorn. She thought that she
had long since possessed her soul in patience,
but she had broken down, and given way
before some random-aimed taunts, and had
been betrayed into a petulance which she
despised. In the late strife of tongues she
had held her own, but at what cost ? Had
not her sense of dignity been outraged?
Are these the first fruits of love ? she
thought bitterly, that love for whose coming
she had waited until the early spring time
of life was almost on its wane. How nearly
had she forgotten that all real love is divine,
and flees before the touch of selfishness.
Was it not with almost religious awe that
she had welcomed its approach into her heart,
and now must it be ruthlessly crushed out,
or held fast in very despite of the disappointment
and anguish its retention would bring

to another ? And who was that other ? The
mother of him she loved. But she had made
up her mind. In a few minutes she would tell
the man whom she loved so much, and for
whom she would be content to walk barefoot
over the flints with those delicate feet of
hers through life's most rugged paths, if she
might only have him ever by her side, and
feel the strength of his encircling arm, and
hear the deep tones of his loving voice encouraging
her on, towards some distant goal
and haven of rest ; she it was who was to
tell him the cold truth, that the must at
once bid each other farewell, and part perhaps
for ever.

Had it all been foolishness — one of folly's
frequent dreams, which, clothed in radiance
in the unreasoning hours of the night, fade
into dull grey before the light of the morning?
And would they who deem that the emotions
are always misguiding be wrong if they called
it foolishness on her part ? Had all the delight
that she had felt from the possession of
that young man's affections counterbalanced
the anguish and the mortification of the last
few hours ?

Those stinging, contemptuous words had
pierced her to the very soul. The wounds

that they had made were rankling within
her. she had no fears about her ultimate
victory over herself; tomorrow night she
would have left Sunnyside, and the quiet
life of discipline and duty would again recommence,
but between this time and tomorrow,
what hours of agony were still
before her ! Duty ! duty ! had been the
watchword of her young life, but nevertheless
had she not ever looked forward ta
something that she esteemed better than the
appointed task, the daily round ? Had she
not confidently expected a revelation of a
diviner life ? "I will go whithersoever it
takes me," she had said in her more exalted
moods, " whether it be to the hearth and
home, or to serve at the altar ol God, or to
work for suffering humanity." " Speak, Lord,
for Thy servant heareth," had been the
daily attitude of this true-souled, warmhearted,
but apparently cold, woman.

She had listened unmoved to the friendly
expostulations of some few who thought that
they at least really knew her, and who chid
her because of her self-willed isolation from
a society that she was so fitted to adorn.
She was burying herself," they would
urge, " she, who had only to appear in those

circles where so many inferior lights were
worshipped as stars of the first magnitude,
because she had not been seen." And Mary
had answered with a quiet smile, '' What
could the great world give her to satisfy the
longings of her soul ? " There was one bright
spot in the past, the joy of an unclouded
childhood ; but happiness like to that would
never return. Standing there awaiting her
lover whilst the ruddy brown dimness of the
evening was gathering round her, she recalled
the memories of that idolized mother who
alone, until now, had touched her heart with
the fire of love, and for whom she had felt
such singular and unparalleled devotion that
the very thought of her, though dead, had
compelled the present abnegation.

What pictures of the past rose suddenly
before her, conjured up by that remembrance,
although her eyes looked only on the tall
bracken, golden-cried by many a hot July
sun ! That day, which had set its seal upon
her future, was present once again, that day,
when she had laid her head upon her mother s
shoulder, and had said —

Are you vexed, dear little mother ? You
look sad ; but if I were to say ' Yes ' when I
ought to say * No would you not be still

VOL. I. B

more unhappy? Why, then, so grave today?"


Because, my darling, he was your father s
friend, a good man and a true, because I
know that could you have consented to have
become his wife, although he is more than
twice your age, he would be a loving and
tender protector to my good, my beautiful,
but penniless child, when I am no more."

*' Not penniless, dear, anxious mother.
Have I not a large dowry of three hundred
golden sovereigns ? Let me have my way
and put them out to usury. Let me go to
Girton, and whatever is to be gained thereby
hard work I will gain, and then your
heart can be set at rest, for I have been told
that a Girton girl with honours need not bea
poor governess. Now why do you shake
your head?"

There is one insurmountable obstacle to
that, my Amy."

What ? Am I too stupid ? "

'* You are far too lovely."

Far too lovely ! " and the girl laughed
outright. " Why, then, I must look prim, and
wear very stiff collars, drag my hair into the
tiniest of close little knots, and, if that will
not suffice, wear spectacles. If it is necessary

to be a fright to gain honours, why, a fright
I will be ; but I will gain them, and then we
san live on just as happily as before, with no
doubts to cloud the horizon."

Do not talk in that way, child ; I have
sunned myself in your growing beauties like
the most foolish of mothers, watching their
expansion with delight as one watches the
opening buds of a choice flower — but not to
cast it away afterwards."

What would the wise, discreet ones say
if they heard you talk thus, mammie ? *'

They who do not know a weed from a
flower would condemn me. Pampered weeds
grow the rankest. Fair blossoms well
cherished bring forth fruits worthy of their
promise."

You are like all the rest of them, darling
little mother ; you want to marry your only
daughter as heartily as if she were one of
six ; nay, shake not your head again so deprecatingly.
I know that you would have
cried your eyes out if I had said ' Yes ' to
that very ancient lover, who, I suppose, would
have carried me off and left you to pine
alone. Oh, no, no," and the girl laid her
head on the mother's shoulder ; " we will
live together when I come back from Girton,

as we do now, and I will make the cherry
pies as before." Some recent memory here
flooded her face with laughter. " Look, now,
there is doubtless a schoolboy somewhere to
whom will devolve the task of gathering
some day the flower of your tending ; so, as
I am only sixteen, we will wait for each
other, but if we are not destined to meet on
this planet, and have each of us to wander
through space, and never, never find each
other at all — "

Her mother stopped her mouth with a kiss
at that sally, saying —

** At least take care, my Amy, that you do
not fall in love with the man in the moon."

"It seems to-night that I might as well
have given my heart to the man in the
moon," said Mary, faintly smiling ; but the
mere thought of her mother always brought
a ray of sunshine into any cloud-lands through
which she occasionally had to pass, and now
on the darkening woodlands of Sunnyside
she saw again the cottage home of her childhood
with its roses and its cherry trees, its
bees and the glad rustic life. Still further
away, almost to babyhood, travelled the
swift winged memories; the mother leaning
far back in her chair, stretching herself out

to make an inclined plane, and holding the
chubby arms firmly in either hand, whilst
each little foot lifted alternately unnecessarily
high, cautiously trod the sloping ascent till
reaching the mother's waist in safety, it was
rapturously caught up and deluged with
kisses from its pursed-up lips to its rosy
little soles. This remembrance, only remembered
possibly through a fond mother's
frequent recital of early maternal joys, by a
quick revulsion of feeling brought back the
first beginnings of Herbert's love, and this
thought, which had often lately caused her
cheeks to tingle with blushes, recalled now
again as she stood upon the very spot where
they had first met, threatened to sap her stern
resolution.

I wish it were over," she said, drearily,
*' and that I were away. To say hard things
to him is terrible; but it must be — it must
be — I must this night with my own hands
loose him and tell him he is free. But what
then — "

The outline of a tall figure shadowing the
horizon told her that he was coming.

How cruel he will think me," she thought,
as she drew herself up and compressed herself,
as it were, into an attitude of cold

rigidity, with firm tightened lips though
with strongly throbbing heart; but at the
loud cry of mingled agony and joy that
pierced her ears as her lover first perceived
her presence, all watch and ward fell away,
and as he rushed towards her, as her name
*' Mary, Mary " burst in impassioned accents
from his lips, the woman threw herself into
his arms and buried her face in his breast.

Tumultuous gladness coursed through the
young man's veins. She was his, she had
given herself unreservedly to him, she let
him kiss her brow, her cheek, her lips ; her
own lips returned the pressure of his.

My Amy ! my Amy ! my glorious one !
my own ! " he cried in rapture, still holding
her to his breast.

What name had he called her by ? The
pet name used so often by her mother, and
from him I She started, it was like a voice
from the other world.

You are weeping," he said, in a low-hushed
tone. " There is no need for weeping
now ; even now I make you my own,
never more to part. Come with me, Mary ;
come this moment — now — "

Now, even now, we must part, therefore
have I come," answered Mary, slowly.

raising her drooped head and drawing herself
away.

No one shall part us," cried the young
man fiercely.

No one but ourselves. I, even I myself
say to you that we must part. Listen to me,
Herbert," she cried, staying with uplifted
hand the passionate words which were about
to rush from his lips. " Listen, not so much
to me as to your own better self. Have
you not already told me that you knew not
which feeling of yours towards me was the
greater : reverence or love ? Did you not
say so in the garden ? What reverence
would be left in your heart if I, the slave of
passion, should place my hand now in yours
and say ' Yes, let us flee ? ' Love would remain,
will you say ? Love without reverence
is a base thing which would burn swiftly out
and leave us but its ashes."

Her pleading tones prevailed upon him to
hearken to her whilst she told him how it was
that he owed so great a debt to his mother.
For the first time he heard of those Ions:
years of untiring devotion, of a love which
had been crushed out, and he could not but
recognize that that mother's nature, so like
his own, would have loved as strongly ashe,

and jet lie had conquered it for his
sake.

"What she has done," she continued,
softly, " we can do ; but it is not needful
that our love shall be wrenched up by the
very roots as hers was, and thrown aside to
wither. It can live on tln^ous^h the storm,
and will shine with a steadier and clearer
light when the tempest is hushed and the
whirlwind has passed by."

Herbert answered not, but she felt rather
than saw that his brows were knit and his
lips compressed.

They who will ascend the heights must
first cross the valley. Self renunciation is
the high road to bliss."

"You talk like a woman," he answered,
impatiently. " With women it may be easy,
with men it is far otherwise."

*' With some men rather, not with strong,
good, brave men such as you can grow into ;
and grow into all the sooner for this chastening.
If I had not seen what was in you
should I have loved you ? If I had not seen
that you would choose duty before inclination
could I have loved you ? A woman has joy
in loving and in being loved ; but a woman
loves not him whom she despises, and a man

who can sacrifice bis duty to God or to his
country for love, wins no woman's heart that
is worth the winning. I took note of you,
little thinking whither it would lead me, and
I saw in you one who in troublous times
could be not so much a leader of men as
your mother asks you to become, as one who
would die, if need be, for honour's sake, one
who would choose the higher life first, come
what may, one who would wait for the consummation
of Israel."

Do not fling Bible texts at my head,
Mary ; it is no befitting time."

If I dare not link the holiest truths with
my love it is not for me, it is but a base thing,
and I have staked my life on an illusion."

Since you will have it so, Mary, I too
can make Scripture serve my turn. Do you
contemplate waiting like Anna in the temple,
whilst I, like the aged Simeon, shall be content
to depart in peace, when, after long
years of separation, we have met again as
grey heads, and looked upon each others
wrinkled brows ? Are you a visionary, a
dweller in the clouds, that you speak in
this fashion to the man who loves you, as if
love was a thing of realities, and to be
satisfied with unmeaning words ? "

'* A dreamer of dreams if you will; but
they are good dreams, such as follow upon a
day's work well done."

What are your dreams — that we shall'
be united one day in Paradise ? Is that the
consummation I am to work for ? "

Here is a path of duty clearly drawn
out. Follow it in trust — whither it may
lead neither you nor I can tell. Take up
your crutch, your feet will not stumble on the
road — rugged though it be — for a lamp will
light you through all the way. There is no
place here, Herbert, for the admission of
divine discontent ; here it must be uniformity
with the will of God."

She laid a hand on each of his shoulders
and looked steadily at him.

Forgive me," she continued, in a low
voice, " forgive me for speaking to you thus ;.
but I am older than you — ever so much older
six long years with all their springs and'
summers, autumns and winters. When we
meet again you will be older than I in all the
richer wisdom that comes from a man's more
varied experiences, in all the wider, the
greater knowledge of a stronger, larger
nature. You will lead then, and I shall
follow, shall follow, dear, in silence ! "

Do you know what the term is which my
mother has put between us ? Do you know
that it is her death ? Can we pray for that ?
Oh, my mother ! my poor mother ! "

Mary shuddered.

It was not well said, but she will revoke
that. She is ambitious ; pay the debt which
you owe her, Herbert ; gratify her pride.
Let her heart swell with joy at your achievements
in the path which she has mapped out
for you, and then go and seek her, and say
to her ' Mother, I have done all that you
wished me to do, it is yours,' and the morning
of that day will bring light into her soul,
and gladness into our hearts."

But what of the night ! what of the
night ! "

The night has its countless stars,.
Herbert."

Forbidden to write as though I were still
an unfledged school boy ! " he muttered.
Little did I think my mother could be
so harsh a tyrant."

Even tyrants should be obeyed until the
hour comes when their yoke can be thrown
off without sin. Would any special blessing
come to us, if, braving her resentment, we
should write? Some dross ever clings to

language; if the spoken word can hardly show
of what spirit we are — how much less the
written. Let the submission be total. Herbert,
we will not write to each other."

The spring days of my life are gone,
they have died out, and all before me is
wrapt in gloom. Have you such trust in
yourself and in me as so blank an outlook
demands, Mary ? "

I have."

You are a brave woman ! God help mein
this my need. Give me your hand and let
us go whilst yet I feel within me a small
fraction of your strength."

And hand in hand they walked homewards
and spoke not by the way. At the
door of the house in the twilight stood two
figures.

See, Herbert, where your mother stands !
Had passion triumphed, and had we fled to
an unblessed marriage, what agonies would
have rent that mother's soul this night."

He did not answer; but a strong hand
pressed hers in grateful acquiescence.

What wild, almost frenzied eyes were
those that strained forward and met theirs.
The hands of Mrs. Hazelhurst seemed to be
clutching her sister as if to hold her back.

Fooled ! fooled ! They are gone
together by the night up-train, and tomorrow
will be man and wife. Curse that
woman and her lying eyes which have lost
me my son."

Hush ! hush ! for mercy's sake hush I
See where they come' and Mrs. Hazelhurst,
relaxing her hold, burst into tears. " I put
back the dinner hour until eight o'clock, but
it is now nine; we got rather alarmed,'^
stammered poor Mrs. Hazelhurst.

Neither made any answer, but passed
through the porch together.

I give you back your son," said Mary,
in a low voice.

Mrs. Langridge laid her hand upon the
girl's arm.

''A mother's thanks, Miss Myles."

Do not thank me, it is but a soulless
body." Those words spoken with slow
distinctness, yet scarcely above a whisper,
sent a momentary thrill to the mother's
heart.

Mary, without pausing, bowed and passed
on. The mother turned away from her to
speak to her son ; but his eyes were rivetted
upon the retreating figure. At a bend of
the staircase she stopped, and looking for a

moment back over the balustrade, lie smiled
upon her lover. A flash of light seemed
struck from the young man's face by that
impinging smile of hers, which was at once a
farewell, yet bore in its depths an eternity
of hope and love.

As the form of Mary Myles turned the
angle, the light died out. It was a stern,
grave man who offered his arm to Mrs.
Langridge.

Mother, shall I lead you in to dinner ? '*
he said.

Wrath is cruel, and anger is outrageous.

Proverbs.

There could hardly be anything less like a
social gathering than was exhibited in the
little group of four near relatives assembled
that evening at dinner at Mrs. Hazelhurst's.
Not less than three," is Horace's prescription
as a necessary concomitant for a
lively repast, and here there were four, and
four people who were each and severally
bound to each other by the ties of blood, and
all of them intelligent, and ordinarily agreeable
; two of them being in youth's first
spring time, and abounding in animal spirits.
Funeral feasts are dismal delusions, but
they are not so oppressive as those solemn
mockeries of the table, where people doomed
to dine together with anger at their hearts.

sit through grace, and after grace, with no
bettering of their condition therefrom ;.
whilst the dreary silence all the time that
the servants are present is only broken by
the most commonplace civilities. One has
to be cautious before servants ; serious
matters cannot be discussed before them ;
but servants know all that is thought to have
been so well concealed from them, and it was
quite evident to those who were waiting, and
was afterwards discussed by them in tho
servants' hall, that " everybody at table was
out of temper," for the being " out of
temper " is the only solution at which
servants can arrive, when any unusual
gravity or suppressed display of grief
produces a more reticent behaviour before
them.

Now each of these four people really loved
each other, but just at this particular epoch,
every separate love was held in suspension
from its lawful object. There was an all
round sense of injury, and a swelling of the
organs of combativeness, as decided as used
to be seen by the frequenters of Donnybrook
Fair, when anyone present by the slightest inopportune
remark could have set all the
shillelahs of indignation flying.

Mrs. Hazelhursfc, as the hostess, smiled the
usual conventional and stereotyped smile,
and spoke the customary courteous words
which propriety and etiquette demand even
when the heart is very sore within. The
others, not being constrained by so heavy a
burthen as fell upon her as hostess, answered
the questions put to them as succinctly as
possible, and nothing more.

There was a cover laid for Miss Myles as
usual, but few were in dread that she would
make her appearance. In the opinion of
Mrs. Langridge that was a farewell smile
which was flung to her son over the balustrade,
and full of meaning.

Mrs. Hazelhurst divided her discontent
and displeasure equally between her sister
and her nephew ; that the latter should be
so oblivious to her daughter's youthful
beauty and to her fifty thousand pounds in
her own right, as to fall in love with her
governess instead, was as unpardonable as it
was silly, in her maternal eyes; she almost
felt irritability also towards Helen that such
an occurrence was possible, although she was
but sixteen and a school-girl. Helen was a
little annoyed too, as school-girls of sixteen
are apt to be sometimes, in that she had been

VOL. I. s

thus overlooked; and when Herbert had
made her his confidant that afternoon
during the ride, there was just a little pout
unperceived by him at his glowing words
when speaking of Miss Myles.

But within Mrs. Langridge's breast what
upheavals of the fire pent up beneath were
struggling to the surface, restrained only by
the thinnest cosmical crust ! She had got
her son as a gift from Miss Myles ! She
had even thanked her in that moment of
excitement unthinkingly ; but that quietly
triumphant smile, veiled in sweetness as its
power was, had torn up all feelings of
gratitude.

A dangerous woman," she had muttered,
inaudibly, even while on Herbert's arm, " but
her triumph will be short."

And Herbert ? No one can analyze the conflict
of his emotions. Who has not known that
most difficult of positions when the heart is
rent by two opposing loves ? His mother
hated the woman he had chosen for his wife.
He loved his mother as his duty was, and she
hated where he adored.

Little was eaten, little was said.

After the servants had retired Herbert
was the first to speak.

My dear mother," he said, respectfully ;
but his voice fell upon Helen's ear as the
voice of someone else, and his face, as she
looked at him, seemed to her eyes to have
grown suddenly old. '' My dear mother,
would it be too much to ask you to go by an
early train tomorrow, as I have to be at
Oxford in the evening ? "

At Oxford ? "

"Yes, I have business to transact there,"
he said curtly.

There was again silence.

'* I do not require you to leave so early if
it be inconvenient or distasteful, mother,
although I have to go myself. I trust, dear
aunt, that you will not think me inconsiderate,
but I must be in Oxford tomorrow."


The " must be in Oxford " had never
escaped before ; both his mother and aunt
looked at him inquiringly.

*' The fact is," he said, coldly, " that I
have gained my degree. The announcement
came this morning, but I forgot it."

Your degree ! " cried Helen ; " you are
fortunate, Herbert," but the two elder
women regarded him in silence.

Yes, I do not overlook that, Helen ; but

it is just a question whether I shall avail
myself of it'*

*' Not avail yourself of it, Herbert ? " here
broke in his mother ; " not avail yourself of
it ? And why ? ''

Because I intend to enter into the
Indian Civil Service."

Herbert had not been used to speak in
that incisive way. It was a new revelation
of character. Was all confidence over between
mother and son ? India ! was that to
be the goal, and were her hopes to be blighted
after all ?

"I never heard a hint of India before'*
she remarked, with some asperity.

'* I hope you won't go to India. What
has made you think of going to India all of
a sudden?" asked Mrs. Hazelhurst, inconsiderately.


I have decided to go into the Indian
Civil Service, aunt. Why I do so is only of
importance to myself."

"You have come to this decision rather
quickly," retorted Mrs. Langridge.

Herbert looked down for a few minutes,
and then raising his head he said, without
looking at anyone in particular, but as if
addressing someone outside that circle —

Some decisions in life have to be made
quickly ; they are none the less enduring on
that account. Yesterday I had no thought
of India in my future ; to-day I have."

If you wish to leave early, Herbert,"
said the mother, more gently, " of course I
shall travel with you. I am sure that your
aunt will make no objection."

'* None at all ; any hour that you like we
can have breakfast." She was about to say
how sorry she was they were leaving, but she
was not sorry, and for truth's sake the words
were happily left unsaid.

Will you excuse me, ladies ? I have some
matters I wish to arrange," and he rose.

Of course he was excused.

How odd, how changed he is ! " thought
Helen. " Ladies ! " No, she did not think
she could ever have much desired to have
Herbert for her lover.

This has been a most unfortunate visit."

Do you really think that he will go to
India, Elinor?"

Between now and an appointment in India
worthy of his acceptance, there is a long gap
to be filled up, and determined as he seems
at present, the course of events may be
stronger than his will, which seems just now

to be of the strongest. Once quite away
from that woman he will breathe a different
atmosphere. Should he be besotted enough
to cling overlong to his foolish fancy out of
pure waywardness, as men do sometimes, it
will not then be a bad thing to put the sea
between them. Then all will be obliterated,
like footmarks on the sands. I must part
with him some day," sighed the mother,
why not to India ? He is young, and so is
Helen, they can both afford to wait — to wait
until the years have brought to Herbert
wealth and fame, and the awakening sense
of Helen's superior claims to his love."

My Helen is not to be bargained for in
this fashion, Elinor. That dream of mine is
over. She shall never go to India."

'' Nonsense, Kate. She need not go to
India — India will come to her in the shape
of a wealthy husband."

"Helen will long before that time has
arrived have met someone, I opine, who
will not have needed such an experience to
drive him into loving her. Our bond is at
an end. We can neither of us look forward
to the union of our children."

As you please, Kate ; perhaps they will

do better without our bond, and fall in lovesome
day with each other in spite of it."

It will thus be seen that whereas formerly
Mrs. Langridge had always carried herself
towards the projected marriage with a high
hand, whilst her step-sister was warmly
entertaining the idea; and that now, when
Mrs. Hazelhurst professed to have abandoned
all her previous long cherished hopes, so did
Mrs. Langridge the more strenuously desire
that the well-dowered Helen should some day
be her son's wife.

Some day ! " echoed Mrs. Hazelhurst, as
they parted for the night.

Wer nie sein broad mit threaten ass

Wer nie die kummervollen nachte

Auf seine bette weaned sass

Der kent such night, ir hiinmlischen machine.

Goethe.

What could a willie woman doe but weep ?

Father Robert Southwest.

The chords lately tightened to high pitch
were now slack, and Mary Myles alone in
her little study was prostrate and nerveless.
It was so short a time since her warm and
enthusiastic but long repressed nature had
given full vent to the expression of life-renewing
feelings.

With her head on her young lover's breast
her heart had told all its tale in those
passionate words, " I have found thee at
last, my life's lord," and now this newly-found
life-inclose was to give way to the

"death of separation. When should she look
upon him again ? As she had not striven to
hide her love from him when he had asked
her for it, so now she made no effort to cover
up and hide from herself the dreary desolation
of her heart. They had taken him away ;
where should she find him again ? " What
loan a willie woman doe but weep ? " she had
cried in the words of the Jesuit Father, as
with dishevelled hair and streaming eyes she
threw herself on the very ground in her
despairing grief. " Let me weep ! let me
weep ! " she cried, again and again, as if expostulating
with supreme reason and ber
religious sense. " Let me weep to-night — tomorrow
I may give thee thanks, oh my God,
but to-night let me weep in the dust ! " And
as in her voluntary abasement, she felt the
full meaning of the uprooting of many
earthly hopes, whilst her cheeks were wet
with tears, she groaned, " Oh that I could
fiend a harbour of refuge in some recluse's
cell, where I might weep forgotten and unseen
! "

But the day was gone and the night had
come, and noiselessly — noiselessly, as messages
from the spirit world enter the prepared
soul, the moon-rays flooded the room

with silver light, and placidly enfolded the
prostrate form of the girl lying on the floor
in all the abandonment of undisciplined
grief; but the storm winds that had lashed
the calm transparent lake into a sea of
tossing waves, were subsiding.

Through the temporary hush, as if borne
by the midnight breeze that came in through
the open casement, the awakening soul heard
one word, '' Daughter." The half-rising sob
was driven back ; half in awe, she held in her
breath, and raised herself on one arm,
listening. And, again as though in a soft
whisper, came to her the appealing word,
'' Daughter."

It was enough, she sprang to her feet, and
all the sense of miserable failure and the
shame of defeat, brought a rush of warm
blood in crimson glow to her pale tear-stained
cheeks. That noble pride of the woman on
which she had ever rested as her sheet-anchor
had not availed her in this late-assault.
'' Mother," she said, softly and
humbly, " thy voice has spoken in my heart.
I thank Thee, God, for this Thy message
of love," and she knelt down and bowed her
head in prayer. " I thank Thee for this-discipline
of humiliation."

The first shrill far-off crow of an audacious
bantam, eager to announce the coming of the
morn before his larger rival, who triumphed
over him daily, solely from the vulgar accessory
of size, found her still communing with
herself. The very homeliness of this voice in
the silence was a means of strength to her, so
small are the adjuncts which in some of our
exalted or despairing moods, sway our unhinged
souls. Had a nightingale's note
thrilled through the stillness, the tender
chords might again have been loosened in a
fresh overflow of sorrow ; had an owl's
screech awoke the night, a dark foreboding
of future woes might have been conjured up,
but at the cry of a barn-door fowl Mary
smiled. How often had she seen the ardent
little fellow, tiptoe and eager for combat,
blown aside by a gust of wind in the very
face of the haughty tyrant whom he was
vainly defying, and challenging to mortal
combat? Yes, Mary smiled. "Surely," she
said, '' it is in mockery of my egoistic claims
to superiority, that my recall to the duties and
labour of life is thus delivered by the humble
denizen of the poultry yard." But the day
came back at last, and the moon stole away,,
covering herself with a filmy mantle at the

coming of the sun, whose messengers of
ruddy clouds were like the torch-bearers
who herald the approach of majesty. On
the table stood the untasted meal of last
evening, which she had ordered to be set
forth in her study. No one had appeared to
remove it. Was she already of so little consequence
?

On the window sill was a blue vase, and
within it were two or three of those same
marigold which she had offered to her
lover. These were some which had lodged
in the folds of her gown when she had let
them all escape from her grasp beneath her
lover's embrace, and which, when she had
found them afterwards, she had transferred
to this vase.

How cheerful they look*' she cried, " as
fresh as when they were first gathered —
hardy, brave, steadfast flowers ! I am glad
that he chose them ; how would roses have
looked now ? " and she stooped her head
down to them and kissed them ; they were
wet with night dews, and they left a moisture
on her lips. " I have kissed away your
tears," she whispered, '* so will perfect love
kiss away all sorrow."

Coming out from her bedchamber one
hour afterwards she found Helen in her
dressing-gown and slippers, waiting at the
door. The girl said nothing, but with a cry
of jos rushed to her, and flinging her arms
around her burst into tears.

I have been going backwards and forwards,
backwards and forwards, all through
the night'' she whispered. "I thought that
you must be dead, for I could not hear a
breath, and there was no answer, although I
knocked several times."

I was not there, darling," said Mary,
taking Helen's face between her two palms
and looking at her ; " but you look ill and
wretched. Go, child, and get an hour's
slumber in peace. See, I am well ! '*

And Gibson tells me that you ate no
dinner last night, and that you have not been
to bed, and yet you look — "

A little cold water does much, darling,
and, upon second thoughts, I advise you to
have a good sprinkling of it at once, and then
come and join me in a cup of tea, which I am
now going bo make ; it will do you more good
than to lie down now that the sun is high.
Will you come, dear ? "

Helen smiled through her tears.

I shall like it much. Poor Gibson is
fretting terribly."

"Ask Gibson to leave off fretting; and if
she will kindly remove the untouched feast
and place a few teacups and biscuits in its
stead, I shall be very much obliged. By the
time you are freshened up I shall have prepared
our early breakfast."

Few words were spoken at the light meal,
but those few were words of gratitude and
love.

Dearest Polly," cried Helen, as she rose
to go in order to complete her toilet\(being
sufficiently reassured to be able to adopt her
old familiar epithets), '' you are a marvel tome
; you do not seem as if — as if — ''

"As if what, Helen?"

Helen blushed.

Well, as if you had been awake all
night."

Mary smiled at the evasion.

Just one word, Helen. As I cannot leave
before tomorrow, I should like to spend this
last day at the Yicarage, that is, with Mrs.
Hazelhurst's permission. I think that will
be the best plan for us all."

Reginald is expected home to-day," stammered
Helen.

And what if Reginald be expected home
to-day ? " asked Mary, bending quiet, earnest
eyes on Helen's face.

Oh ! I hardly know — only that I
thought —"

You have been thinking overmuch lately,
Helen, I suspect, upon matters that have
been, and are, outside your powers of control,"
she added, gravely.

If I have caused you any annoyance, dear
aunt, forgive me." As her nephew said this
he raised Mrs. Hazelhurst's hand to his lips,
but as quickly resigning it, he took her in his
arms and kissed her. '' Too formal a vegetating
for a long good-bye," he whispered.

Dear Cousin Helen, have no fear of your
pony ; he has no vice — none. Good-bye,
dear; thank you for all kindness," and so
Helen received his unwonted salutation of
being kissed on both cheeks without any
maidenly tremor of surprise. It might have
been the kiss of a father or uncle, so grave an
impress was set upon that face of his, from
which all youth seemed to have died out in
one night. He had become so old, as Helen
said.

He had handed his mother into the carriage

and was about to follow her when a
sudden memory came to him. He looked at
his watch; it was too late to return to the-house.


"Have you forgotten anything, Cousin
Herbert?"

"Yes," he answered, and he whispered a
few words in Helen's ear.

As the carriage wheeled round and passed
those windows, before which he had paced
the livelong night, he did not turn his head,
but he thought to himself, " Loving eyes are
looking upon me in my anguish."

He was mistaken. The woman he loved
was on her knees with her face buried in her
hands. She had said, " I will not trust myself
to look upon his face again."

So in all this
We miscall grief, bale, sorrow, heartbreak, woe.
What is there to plain of.

Alphonsus de Liquor.

•

With basket on arm, Mary, an hour later, set
out to walk towards the Yicarage. She was
closely veiled, for she cared not that curious
eyes should detect that she had been weeping.
Had the news already flown before her ? the
tale of that quickly-wrought love and. its
sudden catastrophe ? She felt as if the ashes
of abasement were sprinkled over her head in
the sight of every one, and was she to meet
the boy-lover in her old pupil thus ? — she, to
whom so often had been offered the crown of
love, and who had put it aside with indifference,
and now to be contemned as unworthy ?

VOL. I. T

Not yet had she risen to those sunt heights
which await the toiler climbing the flint-strewn
paths of self-renunciation. It was all
too soon as yet, whilst the sounds of those
departing carriage wheels seemed to be still
vibrating and wounding her ears with their
discordant grating.

Unhappy mother ! " she said, bitterly,
you have spurned me, and you have lost a
son's best love. You will know it on the
day when you discover that there is a void
in your heart, notwithstanding what you
willed has been obeyed to the letter."

When duty and love walk side by side, the
path, however long, is always aglow with the
sunlight of golden noontide, with the flutter
and songs of birds, and the glory of wide-open
flowers; but to travel the road of duty
divorced from love, is like a pacing of the
sands in twilight when the sea is low and
the darkened waves give a hollow sound.
Heavily cast down as she was, the victory
of a perfect uniformity with the will of God
which she desired was near. In exceeding
bitterness of soul she had cried out in the
spirit of St. Augustine, " Not yet, not yet."
But she wrestled no longer in vain ; the

triumph was at hand when she could think
of her lover's mother with sorrow and pity
rather than with anger.

"To-day be Thy will accomplished in
me," she murmured. '' This earthly love
shall be consecrated to Thee and laid upon
Thine altar — not thrust aside or annihilated,
but united to the divine love, and made one
with it."

A robin, gay and intrepid in heart, with no
lament because summer days were nearly
over, and autumn blasts and winter snows
were impending, trolled out its brief refrain
above her with exceeding joy. Her eyes
had hitherto been bent on the ground, but
she now raised her heavy lids, for the little
bird's cheerful notes sounded to her as if it
were a messenger from the spirit of Nature ;
and for the first time she noticed how heavy
laden with blossoms was the hedge row,
whilst her basket hung empty upon her arm.
Responsive to these messages from the external
world she stopped, and, placing her
basket on the ground, raised up both arms to
gather a long trail of " Travellers' joy." A
sound as of a quick footstep approaching
arrested her; and at the same moment the

Yicar, opening the gate of an adjoining field,
appeared before her.

"I did not expect to meet you here, my
dear," he said, kindly, as he seized both her
hands and shook them warmly.

This unusually familiar greeting and the
Vicar's manner told her that he knew all.

I am going to ask Mrs. Ashcroft to take
me in for the day," she answered, " my last
day at Sunnyside."

'' And I am going over to Sunnyside now
to see Mrs. Hazelhurst, and, it maybe, to
expostulate with Mrs. Langridge, her sister."

Upon what subject ? " asked Mary,
quietly.

Oh, my dear, use no reserve with an old
man, a priest and a father. I received a
note from Mrs. Hazelhurst last evening. It
was not like her; her sister's influence was
in it. I was much surprised at the subject
of it ; but why should I have been surprised
? " and the Yicar hesitated as he
looked at her. " I ought not to have been
surprised, except at the wording of that
communication."

Now, as you have met me, there is no
need to go."

"Why not? Indeed, but there is. I
could not allow such a note to pass unquestioned,
and I might, perhaps, be able to
influence Mrs. Langridge herself."

Mrs. Langridge and her son both left
Sunnyside early this morning."

Left Sunnyside ? Then I am too late ? "

Not too late to take me back with you.
Let us walk to the Yicarasfe together."

o o

'' No, no, my dear. If Mrs Langridge has
left I have at least a duty as a Christian
priest to perform as regards Mrs. Hazel-hurst."


"Dear Mr. Ashcroft," said Mary, softly,
I want no intercessor here. Turn back,
dear friend, and the rather plead my cause
with Mrs. Ashcroft that, unannounced, I
may yet hope that she will receive me this
last day."

As he looked into her true face, where a
smile was struggling to the surface, he
thought, " If it could only have been
Reginald ! " and he suffered her to link her
arm in his, and they walked along in silence.

I wished," she said, after a short pause,
painting to the empty basket which she had
resting upon her arm, " to have decked your

table with wild flowers for one time more.
But, perhaps, it is well as it is ; when I
looked upon them they would have seemed
like the flowers that clothe a recent grave.
Do not fear," she whispered, as upon reaching
the Vicarage she laid her head for a
moment upon the shoulder of sympathetic
Mrs. Ashcroft, who had begun to weep ; *' I
am not bringing you a broken heart, nor
wounds which I am asking you to bind."

Mr. Ashcroft, after depositing his companion
with his kind wife, who felt a thrill
of youthful emotion and interest in this
unexpected episode of romance breaking
through the monotony of her calm uneventful
life, set out to meet Eeginald at the
railway station.

After warm greetings between father and
son, Mr. Ashcroft said —

You will be glad to hear that we have
Miss Myles with us for the day."

His father did not notice a greater accession
of colour to the usually florid hues of
his son's face.

Indeed ! I shall be glad to see her."

We have been lately in one influx of

excitement after another," continued the
father, '' on account of Miss Myles, poor
girl. We are really quite upset by it just
now ; no sooner have we got over one surprise
but there comes another."

"Why, what's the matter now?" said
Eeginald, turning aside to tear off a hazel
rod, which he forthwith began to peel.

Well, your mother told you all about
my dear old friend's disappointment and his
illness, and how it is that we have lost him
from among us."

'* Yes," said Reginald, continuing to peel.

Wasn't that all sad enough ? "

Yes," said Eeginald, absently.

Young men have no sympathy with old
men's heart troubles," said Mr. Ashcroft,
somewhat sadly.

Perhaps not."

Eeginald, as he said this, threw away his
half-peeled stick, which had revealed a hidden
scar, and was about to select another.

"So Miss Myles is at home, is she?" he
said, almost in soliloquy, as he tore down the
chosen one with a sharp crack.

'• Yes, poor girl ! poor girl ! "

** What ever do you say * poor girl ' for,

father? I don't know anyone to whom that
epithet is more misapplied. Surely you
don't call her ' poor girl ' because she failed
to appreciate dear old Grantham ? "

^'JSTo, worse than that ; worse than that."
Reginald, with penknife in one hand and
rod in the other, turned quickly round.
** What ever do you mean, father ? "
You'll be sure to hear all about it, and
so I'd better tell you at once, and then you'll
not stumble on to awkward ground. The
fact is, that your old friend, Herbert Langridge,
and Miss Myles have had a most
determined love affair, and that it has been
cancelled and brought to an end by the
mother and aunt in the most summary and
harshest way possible ; of course, there was
some little justification on their side, as it
was indiscreet in the young people. The
two women wanted him for Helen, and that
complicated matters and made their wrath
more terrible; but I am very much grieved
Miss Myles is leaving Sunny side tomorrow,
so you'll be cautious in talking with her.
There, that's all ; and enough, too, poor
girl ! "

The hazel stick and the penknife had both

fallen to the ground. Reginald stooped topick
them up.

Well," said the Yicar, in amazement,
*' have you nothing to say upon it ? "

"I wish you had told me of it before."

How could I tell you before, Reginald,
when I did not know it until last night ? "

Reginald thrust his hands into his pockets.

I've not seen Miss Myles for over four
years," he said, moodily.

*' The more shame for you, you owe more
to her than to anyone. She, girl as she
was, gave you your first impulse to work —
made you what you are. What were you
before ? "

A numskull, as I am now."

I cannot think," said Mr. Ashcroft, disregarding
this irrelevant comment on his
present self, " and your mother and myself
have often talked it over, what cause for
quarrel or dislike you could have against
Miss Myles. It has annoyed us at times
very much. Something estranged you, that's
quite certain, but how anyone with a grain
of sense — well, well — we have tried to show
our gratitude if you have failed to do so."
Mr. Ashcroft spoke angrily.

The young man put his hand upon his
father's arm.

Miss Myles performed miracles with a
stupid pupil. She was very kind — too kind
she even loved me as if I had been her
younger brother." He paused. " But, you
see, father, boy as I was, I wanted something
more."

Something more ! What could you have
more ? "

Bless me, father ! " cried Reginald,
letting fall his father's arm, '* do you think
that old Dr. Grantham and Herbert Langridge
are the only beings on earth likely to
fall in love with Miss Myles? "

Mr. Ashcroft looked at his son for a few
moments vaguely, as though he did not
comprehend his words, and both were silent.
At last the truth burst upon him.

My poor boy ! " he cried.

I don't think, after all, that I need
very much pity," he began again, in slow,
measured tones, after they had gone on a
few yards side by side without speaking.
It's quite certain that if I had not fallen
head over ears in love I should have been
only fit to be shipped off with other failures

to the far end of the world, out of sight ;
for, of course, I should have been of no
more worth at the Antipodes than here, only
I should have been out of sight, which
is a great boon to the relatives of a ne'er-do-weel.
I believe that laziness is an inherent
part of mj constitution. I always envy
people who can lie in the sun all day and
feed upon bananas, so that it's quite evident
to me that I should have enrolled myself in
the great army of the 'no wish to be
employed ' ones, to the great comfort of
father, mother, and brothers, if you, in a
fortunate moment, had not thought of a
feminine teacher who happily turned out to
be young and lovely. How you came to doit,
my dear father, is beyond me. You are
generally cautious, but it was an inspiration !
If it were not that I still feel her a power
over me — I believe that I should even now
sink into the deep slough of sloth."

What are you talking about, Reginald ? "
"Don't be afraid—don't be afraid — my
good old father, I'm all right. I could not
become an idle vagabond now — because of
her. I wanted more of her than I had any
right to expect after receiving so much ; but

never mind, I shall now go in for being an
old bachelor, and will dream over my delusion
in my leisure moments while indulging
a whiff in a comfortable easy chair in some
snug rectory. No, don't call me ' poor boy.'
I was a bit down just now, because when I
heard that she would have none of Dr.
Grantham — I thought, well, I felt almost sure
that she was thinking of me, and that if I
asked her again — silly, vain fool ! But 'tis
over — say nothing to my mother, and never
think or speak of it again. Now, before we
go in, let us have a good long walk together,
father, and that will put me all right again."

The rather thick-set and robust figure of
Eeginald Ashcroft, with his ruddy, healthy
face, and fair closely cropped hair, showed a
type of development more physical than
intellectual ; but, nevertheless, there were
some signs of capability and resolution in
head and brow which counteracted a certain
heaviness in the lower features. He was
altogether in strong contrast to the high and
refined style of feminine beauty impersonated
in Miss Myles, who at this moment was more
-etherealized than ever by her extreme pallor

and by her heavy Hds, and the violet shadows
beneath. Their opposites in the female sex
have generally an attraction for men, and no
two people could be more unlike in appearance
than those two, who were now exchanging
greetings at the Vicarage. For a few
moments Reginald, seemingly absorbed and
absently gazing into Miss Myles* face, retained
the hand she gave, but, recovering himself
with a slight start, he dropped it suddenly
and concealed the sigh which involuntarily
rose by taking a long inspiration which was
an attempt to show that he was merely out
of breath in consequence of having walked
quickly, and said, as he turned to his mother
again —

We were sadly afraid that we should be
keeping you without your luncheon a shamefully
long time, and so we hastened our pace
over-much. We have had a splendid walk allover
the hills. I never enjoyed a walk so
much in all my life."

You are really a very cool fellow, E-eggie,"
said the fond mother, " to go for a long walk
before coming home. And your father, too ;
how did you manage to decoy him who had
already had rather a long one ? *'

Mr. Ashcroft patted his wife on the
shoulder.

We are here at last, my dear. We are
late, and we are dusty. Give us leave to
absent ourselves for a wash and brush up,
and reserve your scolding till after luncheon,
for we are also — hungry."

END OF VOL I.

^"SCf*:



%i

M

■■^'I'v^'v-tr^

,;^^->

h T>i^l

^:^-

mm^Si^^

-VK
