¥fik

j^^mMM^

y'M

mm

im^^mm-

-.^•iMi^^y^

'S^S^JrarJOLkJrr

/WW

iniin

s'Ws^'^S

.^. :>w,. ,.J 1^(1

m

'^i

,UJ^«'V

vwwvyw,wwi

i

.^Y

'i»-r^*i

OF THE

U N I Verity

or ILLINOIS

8:23

BY

Hon. Mrs. FETHERSTONHAUGH,

AITTIIOR OP " KILCOERAN," " KINGSDENE," " ROBIN ADAIR.'

• Earlier the ground that's deep enough for graves,
Rather the stream that's strong enough for waves,

Than the loose sandy drift
Whose shifting surface cherishes no seed,
Either of any flower or any weed.
Whichever way it shift."

Owen Meredith.

m TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. 1.

LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

NEW BURLINGTON STREET.

1880.

(sall rights reserved.)

S CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

^V Introduction . . . 1

^ I. Grahamstown . . 11

\) II. Alan Bering . . . 27

""^ III. Lord Ercildoun's Daughter . 41

^ IV. EucHARis Lilies . . . 55

|y V. MoN Neve . . . 7«

^ VL Chabot . . . 94

^ VII. Lady Helens . . 113

>

cyVIII. Miserere Domine . . 136

^ IX. What is Fate? . . 148

4^ X. Time trieth Troth . . 167

^^y, XL A Woman's Nay . . 180

^ XII. Brighton . . . 197

P^XIII. Madge Lee . . . 215

i/»

•^XIV. Brown Eyes . . . 229

^ XV. Blue Eyes . . . 243

o>

Introduction.

It was late on a summer afternoon, and
a hot June sun was blazing down on the
long and dusty highway, which would;
about a mile on, lead into the neighbouring
county town of Heversham. At this
point of the road a massive stone archway
marked the turning off of a side way
into the beautiful park of Beechwarden,
and it now gave its cool and welcome
shelter to a tired little figure crouching
under its shadow, and listening dreamily
to the whispering sighs which rustled

VOL. I. 1

through the branches of the grand old
beech trees surrounding her, and from
which the place had taken its name.

A sunburnt, dark-eyed little gipsy girl
was this, apparently; her clothes were
coarse and woefully tattered, but clean ;
and the battered straw hat, which sat
with such a rakish cock on one side of
her unkempt head, had evidently seen
better days ere it wandered through
sunshine, storm, and rain, with this little
wanderer of the earth, ^' homeless, ragged,
and tanned."

The arms of the stately Dumaresques,
and still prouder Derings, looked down
from the old grey archway in haughty
contempt on this presumptuous waif and
stray, which dared to lean its weary head
against their cold magnificence ; but the
child was content, and recked little of
aught else in the world so long as it

could rest its tired limbs until the sun's
rays had lessened somewhat at least in

intensity.

With her knees drawn up to her chin,
and her small brown hands clasped round
the former, she sat staring intently at a
large white placard which some bill-poster
had stuck upon a wooden shed
opposite to her. Slowly she spelt out
the announcement that the *' world-renowned
circus of Messrs. Pantaloon would

•

appear at Heversham for that night
only," and laboriously her eyes travelled
steadily down the list of attractions set
forth on the programme until they
reached a line which contained only five
words: ^^ First appearance of little
Madge."

The red blood rushed into the weary
little face, the dark eyes flashed fire, and
as the child's hands unclasped themselves

from lier knees, and lie rose with a
vague feeling of astonishment to approach
nearer the object of her interest, a proud
mnrmm^ of ^'That's my name!" burst
forth from her lips.

She too had her stake in the world
now; she too might play out her little
play on its great stage, as well as those
many other actors and actresses which
already jostled each other day and night
upon it. And Madge raised her sunburnt
head with childish pride, nodding contemptuously
back at the grim and stately
coats of arms which had seemed to deride
her; and, with a murmur of ^'the good
time '11 come yet, maybe," she resumed
her way once more with sturdy little
steps towards the town, where already
the ^* Company " of which Messrs. Pant a-
long's circus consisted had arrived and
taken up its quarters, and were preparing

all things for a great entertainment to be
given that evening, under the patronage
of the nearest magnate, Mr. Romanesque,
of Beechwarden.

And as the child passed from out the
shadow into the sunlight again, the grand
old beech trees waved their green branches
softly to and fro, seeming to say, ^* Godspeed,
God speed ! " to the weary little
wayfarer as she left their cool refreshing
shade and wandered out into the hot and
dusty world once more.

*****

Six hours later, and the brilliantly
illuminated circus is crowded. The
manager, taking a surreptitious view of
the audience, smiles complacently as he
watches the seats filling steadily, and
glances with much satisfaction at certain
^^ reserved seats " on the right, which had

been curtained off expressly for the nse
of the patron of the night. The front
row of these is occupied by three children
alone — a slim, dark-haired boy of fifteen,
with a younger boy beside him, and
farther on, a flaxen-haired, blue-eyed girl
of ten, who all three chatter and laugh in
merry glee at the sights and sounds
before them. The clown's jokes are not
stale to tliem^ the gold is not glitter only,
and the bright colours and tinsel, the
beautiful pink and white goddesses on
spotted Arabian steeds, the striped harlequins
in fools' caps and bells, are one
and all received with enthusiastic clapping
of hands and ringing laughter by
these youthful and still insatiate minds.
The evening is growing later, and the
performance seems at last all but concluded,
when into the circus arena is leda
little white pony, and riding on it a

small shining figure, resplendent in star-covered
apparel of silvery white. Few
would recognise in this gorgeous fairy
the sunburnt tatterdemalion so lately
resting her weary limbs against the rich
man's gates; but ^^ Little Madge" it is
in truth — and the hour of her debut has
come.

Not a shadow of fear is in the child's
face, as faster and faster the white pony
flies round, and she stands erect on the
saddle with bright burning cheeks and
flashing eyes, and her dark hair streaming
down about her shoulders ; and as she
bounds through paper hoops, and performs
demi-volte after demi-volte, the
crowd roar and clap their hands in
vociferous approval, and the manager
smiles a satisfied smile as he notes the
success which this new ^* attraction " is
likely to prove.

^'Oh, if I could but do that too''
murmurs the Httle flaxen-haired girl in
the reserved seats above, clasping her
hands in ecstasy.

'' She's lovely ! " ^' She's like a fairy ! "
burst forth simultaneously from each of
the boys beside her.

And the little circus-rider hears all,
and smiles up at them brightly as she
rides on and on, for what cause has she
to envy those above her ? Can tlieij feel
the glorious throbs of excitement which
even now are tearing her young heart
to pieces ? can they, too, ride, and spring,
and bound, in all the mad enjoyment of
childish spirits encouraged by the wild
plaudits resounding from every side ?
No ; and truly there is no prouder and
happier mortal on earth to-night than
this sunburnt, ragged child of sin !

^ * ^^ TfS 7^

• About the same hour, in the gloaming
of the summer night, a slender, pale-faced
-child sits on the surf-beaten shore of a
wild northern coast. Above her towers
the facade of an old Norman keep, with
sone single light gleaming out afar from a
high and narrow tinct window ; below
her lies nothing but the wild stormy sea.
Weird and desolate beyond description is
the scene, lonely and sad sounds the
ceaseless roar of the foaming surf, but
the girl looks out afar, to where the
setting sun's last ray has left its gleam
still upon the horizon, and she can scarce
see the darkness which lies between, for
the brightness which lies beyond. Who,
save a child, can see the silvery lining to
every cloud ?

The same night wind which moaned
^0 sadly and drearily round the wild
northern shore, swept soft and lovingly

through the branches of the great trees
at Beechwarden, far away in the sunny
south. The brie-eyed, flaxen-haired child
and her companions were asleep, and
dreaming of the evenings' bye-gone happiness
; the little circus-rider lays tossing
restlessly to and fro on her humble pallet,
dreaming dreams which no kindly fate
would ever realise !

And the grand old beech' trees looked
down on all, and murmured softly: 'sit
must be so ; it must be so ! "

CHAPTEK I.

GEAHAMSTOWN.

Few the days so dark and dreary
But are brightened by a gleam.
Seldom night so long and weary

But 'tis lightened with a dream ;
So the fruit that never ripens

Blossomed once for me, •

Far away in bonny Scotland,
Down by the sea."

Commune Malum,

^^ A Queen boy, but a regular brick," bad
been the verdict at Eton, and *' a thorough
good fellow, only a bit dreamy," was the
verdict a few years later of the 30th
Hussars, on their schoolfellow and brother
officer Alan During.
And yet there is little of dreaminess

about that said individual at this moment,
as he stands on the wide lawn, smooth
and green as a huge strip of emerald
velvet, which lies in front of the windows
of Grahamstown House, straining and
struggling with all his might at a refractory
tent rope, upon which mainly
depends the stability of the small tent
itself, destined, later on, for an asylum to
harassed but affectionate couples, at Mrs.
Graham's garden party, which takes place
this very afternoon.

*^ I think that's tight enough now," he
observes, presently, turning to address his
hostess's daughter, who is standing near,
anxious to supervise all arrangements for
the impending festivity.

'eyes, I'm sure it is," answers Mary
Graham, looking up with her cherry-cheeked
honest face, and broad, beaming
smile.

The relatives of Mr. Graliam, the well-known
millionaire, were apt to declare
that his daughter showed a sad lack of
dignity and pride in her blunt, straightforward
manner, and universal geniality
of disposition. Little mattered it to
good-hearted Mary whether she were
entertaining the Dowager Duchess of
Doldrum or little Miss Twitches, the
village schoolmistress ; her mode of performing
her duties would in both cases be
precisely similar, and though the former
austere lady might find fault with her
brusque manner and somewhat plebeian
appearance, the latter would feel at home
with Mary at once; and this fact had
perhaps done a good deal to assist the
reputation for pleasant sociability which
the garden-parties at Grahamstown House
invariably enjoyed.

Mary, I can't find another single

blessed chair for this last tent, so the
distressed parties who are likely to
occupy its peaceful shelter must sit
on their thumbs ; " and a short, fair
young man, with a merry, cheery face,
saunters idly up to where the last finishing
touches are being put to the striped
red and white marquee in question.

^^ Oh, dear, dear, Teddy; what shall
we do ? I must find something to put
in this tent, for its colours look so bright
and nice in the sun; I wouldn't have it
taken down for anything."

Teddy Graham looks perplexed, and
wrinkles his brows in a vain effort to
try and think of some way in which to
solve the difficulty.

^'I know. Miss Graham!" interrupts
Alan Bering. *^ There is that garden-bench
which we discarded from the lawn-tennis
ground yesterday, because it had

such a rickety leg; we'll get it back,
and prop up the corner on bricks or
something."

"Yes; and we'll cover it all over with
mamma's big Algerian rug," exclaims
Mary, delighted, "and then it will look
all right, and will be as comfortable
a"

Booby-trap as can possibly be made,"
concludes Teddy, finishing the sentence
for her. "However, don't let me interfere
with your humane intentions, Molly*
and we'll get the bench down here at
once."

Shall we put a placard on the seat —
With care ' ? " suggests "Alan During,
"as a label of 'Kicker' is put on a
man's back out hunting, whose mount
is erratic with its heels."

Alan always speaks quietly, and with
a somewhat insouciant manner ; so Mary

Graliam fails to see that he is not in
earnest, and ponders the question carefully
with one finger on her lip.

*'No, I think not," she remarks, after
due consideration; *' we'll trust to lucky
and hope that whoever may come to sit
in this tent will not be energetic in their
movements or demeanour."

*every well, my dear," laughs her
brother. ^^I'U remember that I must
make no rash declarations or reckless
love here, likely to test the frail constitution
of that blessed seat. Nor will
I shake it by the violence of my emotion
when I shed a tear later on for the ghi
who left me behind her ! "

'you'll first have to find the girl who
is worth weeping for, in this desolate
^ North Countries,' " suggests sensible
Mary.

'' Is the race of pretty girls extinct in

these wild Border Lands ? " asks Alan
Dering, with a natural and becoming
interest in the possible beauties of the
future."

'^No, not a bit," answers Mary Graham,
who is one of those women that
can see some good in everybody, and
some beauty in every face ; ^* only Teddy
is so particular in his views on that
subject."

^' ^ Teddy ' hasn't forgotten your last,
so-called ^ beauty,' Miss Molly, whom
Venus was popularly supposed ^ not to bea
patch upon,' but who turned out in
reality to be as near a mulatto as an
English climate could permit her to
be."

*^ Oh, Teddy, you hnoiv that was only
because her mother had been a Creole !
And I'm sure you didn't look as if you
were not admiring her either, for you

VOL. I. 2

never spoke to any one else the whole
evening at Lady Hopping's ball ! " vadcls
Mary, with sisterly dictatorialness.

** There is now going to arise a little
unpleasantness," murmurs Alan Dering,
sleepily; *' suppose we change the subject.
Your sister has fully verified her
statement, my dear Teddy, that, whatever
your taste in female beauty may be, the
opinions which you express of the fair
sex behind their backs are not carried outby
your behaviour to them before their
faces."

Teddy Graham laughs, and resumes his
previous question with a plaintive enquiry
as to whether there is no one coming
with whom he can dance with satisfaction
for many of the expected guests are to
stay for dinner, and finish up the evening
by dancing.

swell, of course you know all the

usual people likely to come' ponders
Mary, ^' but I daresay there might he a
few London people here that you know,
Teddy, for just now, at the end of August,
so many people are passing to and fro
from Scotland."

*^ Hem," observes her brother in a doubtful
tone.

^' Oh, but we've one real curiosity
coming, though ! Somehow I had quite
forgotten her until this moment. Just
imagine, Teddy — old Lord Ercildoun's
daughter is coming, Cecil Euthven ! "

^'Whew!" whistles Teddy Graham,
almost in awe.

^^Yes, she is really and truly coming!
We wrote to her, of course, out of sheer
politeness, because mamma used to know
Lady Ercildoun long ago, before the
latter died ; and we expected to receive
as usual a curt reply from that terrible

old man, declining for his daiigliter and
self. But instead, I received this note
from the daughter yesterday, accepting
our invitation ; and look, Teddy ! it's not
so hardly written, nor even hardly spelt,
is it?"

'' No, not at all," coincides Teddy
Graham, as the brother and sister both
lean their heads together over the note
in question, scanning the fair, legible
handwriting with some curiosity.

'^ What is the mystery about Lord
Ercildoun's daughter ? " inquires Alan
Dering, who has been watching the
speakers' faces and listening to their
words with quiet interest. *^ There is
nothing very remarkable in a young lady
being able to spell her own name correctly,
Teddy."

u There is, though, in this case, my
dear fellow. So far as any one knows.

the said young lady has had no education
whatever."

^*You know, Lord Ercildoun is considered
a most wicked, weird old man,"
continues Mary Graham, explanatorily;
^^ and no one would live in that haunted
old castle of his if he asked them. So
this poor girl has lived there from year to
year utterly alone with him, and has had
no teachers at all, they say, since the
death of the old French chaplain who
used to live with them at one time."

^^ Why do they say that Ercildoun
Castle is haunted ? "

'soh, strange lights are seen in the
window of an old ruined chapel which
looks down on the sea, often and often.
And in the great hall of the castle there
hangs the picture of a certain lovely
ancestress, whose lover sailed over the
sea, and I believe came to an untimely

end, and so she died of a broken heart.
Every living soul within thirty miles
round Ercildoun will tell you that this
lovely ancestress appears at the window
of the ruined chapel which hangs over
the sea, on certain nights of the year,
wringing her hands and singing urges
over her lost lover."

*^ And the odd part of it is," adds
Teddy Graham, "that those particularly
^ keen and canny ' fishermen which drive
their trade round that part of the coast
close to Ercildoun Head (as they call the
high, rocky promontory upon which the
castle stands), all swear and declare that
the ghost of a vessel, quite a repetition
of the ^ Lying Dutchman ' once more,
can distinctly be seen on such nights, far
out at sea, and that after a time it fades
away into the mist again and disappears,
and no one can say whence it comes or
where it goes."

But Alan Dering seems to be no longer
listening to his friend's discourse, for a
grave speculating look crosses his face,
which leaves its shadow there like a
cloud, and his thoughts are obviously
wandering far away into the realms of
Fate, and not reality.

In a little while he lights a cigar, and
saunters slowly away across the lawn,
leaving the brother and sister engaged
in a hot argument respecting the most
desirable spot in which to locate the
small band destined to pipe the tunes to
which Mrs. Graham's guests will by-and-bye
dance.

^' Do you know, your friend Mr. Dering
is rather odd, Teddy," observes his sister,
when the knotty point under discussion
has at last been settled to their mutual
satisfaction.

^'In what way odd?" demands Teddy

Graliam, indignantly, ready instantaneously
to take up the cudgels on behalf
of his favourite brother officer and very
best of what he calls ^' pals."

^^ Well, I mean he changes so. Sometimes
he is so cheery, and quite amusing,
and I'm sure he is clever; but just as I
am laughing at something he says, such
a sad, dreamy look crosses his face, that
I feel half afraid of having done the
wrong thing somehow."

'^ Oh, that's nothing ! I know what
you mean ; but it's only because he gets
strange ideas into his head sometimes,
and I think it makes him dreamy. He
inherits that sort of nature from his
German mother, who fairly killed herself,
I believe, with dread of ghosts and longing
for the unattainable before she was twenty.
So they say, at least."

"I wonder what sort of ideas he gets

into his head," speculates Mary Graham,
whose prosaic mind cannot conceive any
sane individual being troubled with flights
of fancy.

^^ Well, I know that he is a fatalist, for
one thing. He does not believe that any
powerful influence in life, of whatever
sort it may be, is anything save simply
what he calls 'Fate'"

'but he must be a heathen!" expostulates
Mary.

"No, he isn't; at least, I don't tliinlv
so," responds Teddy, feeling that on this
subject he is perhaps scarcely capable of
offering a sound opinion. " Any way, he's
a thundering good sort — I know that,"
continues Mr. Bering's attached brother
of&cer with warmth ; " and, whether he's
a sinner or a saint, he's the best fellow I
know, and a thorough good officer, too,
I can tell you."

^' Oil, I'm quite willing to believe him
everything you like," laughs Mary. ^'I
couldn't have believed, though, that so
clever a man as Mr. Dering would have
faith in that sort of stuff," she adds,
contemptuously.

'^ I can't say I agree with his views
on that subject, any more than you do ;
but yet I know one thing — that if I had
to pick from all the earth my beau ideal
of a man of the world, a sportsman, and
a gentleman, that man would be Alan
Dering." And Teddy Graham walks
leisurely into the house, as if to put a
stop to any further detracting comments
which it might possibly be his sister's
intention to utter concerning the Fidus
Achates of his honest heart.

Chapter II.

ALAN Seeing.

I stand on the brink of the river,
The river that runs to the sea."

Over the Water.

The words, '^ a man of the world, a
sportsman, and a gentleman," were no
bad description of him who now stood
leaning his arms on the small wicket
gate leading out of the wood behind
Grahamstown House, and lazily surveying
the beautiful valley, bounded faraway
by a high range of purple, heather-covered
mountains and fells which lay
before him.

The tall, slight, sinewy figure vouches
for strength and activity whensoever

either may be called iij^on ; the easy,
graceful manner gives an impression of
belonging to one who has mixed much
in society and with the world at large ;
and the good-looking, dark face looks
most essentially thoroughbred."

Any one glancing casually at Alan
Bering's face, would simply receive the
impression of its being a handsome and a
kindly one ; but those who scanned it
closer, and discerned the strange mixture
of feverish wakefulness and apathetic
sleep which looked out from those dreamy,
hazel-grey eyes, were often prone to
think, 'that man is one who will see
ever before him glorious visions of name
and fame, but who will never in this
world have power, resolution, or energy
enough to turn those bright fanciful
visions into a proudly conscious reality."

And yet, sentimental as is his attitude,

and touchingly serious as is the expression
of his face, Alan Bering's thoughts
at this moment are simply intent on
solving two very ordinary problems
generally given to mankind each year by
Fate, i.e., whether the now waning grouse
season had after all proved a
game worth the candle, and, secondly,
Jww many of the Leger favourites would
successfully stand their last fortnight's
preparation for that great race, should the
hot August sun continue to bake the
earth into the consistency of bath bricks,
as it was doing at present.

As no amount of silent speculation or
impatient tilting of his hat on to the back
of his head served to clear up young
Mr. Bering's doubts on these two most
important subjects, he unlatched the
wicket-gate at last, and walked slowly
back towards the house, which could be

seen gleaming out from amongst the trees
and bracken-covered ground, in a linge,
imposingly ugly and utterly shapeless
white mass of stucco and bad taste.

^' I wonder who the devil ever invented
garden parties byway of an amusement ! "
he muttered discontentedly, as stray blots
of red and white dotted over the landscape
recalled to his mind the marquees
which had been arranged for the shelter
of society at large later on. Like most
men, festive gatherings of this description
found small favour in his eyes ; especially
when, as to-day, they might reasonably
be regarded as taking the place of a
possible *^ grouse drive."

And there will certainly not be a soul
here that I shall know," he continued,
with rather self-satisfied contempt ; *' and
the women are expected to be ugly
enough from all accounts, and I shan't

be allowed to go and entrench myself in
the smoking-room, for they're sure to be
short of men — these sort of entertainments
always are ! " and Alan's spirits
sank lower and lower, and his steps
became slower, as he neared the fatal
portals of the millionaire's mansion.

However, the great clatter of knives
and forks and rattle of plates, which fell
on his ear as he entered the hall, had a
more exhilarating effect upon his nerves,
and he felt so far recovered a few minute's
after as to be capable of eating his
luncheon with much apparent comfort
and peace of mind. These were perhaps
a little disturbed by the somewhat near
vicinity of Mrs. Graham's little motherless
twin granddaughters, who are permanent
residents in the heart and home
of that kind-hearted dame, and whose
singular capacity for unconscious mischief

is only equalled by their imperturbability
to all entreaties or persuasions.

Posy, otherwise Penelope, and Rosy,
otherwise Theresa, are the names by
which these two plump and flaxen-haired
imps are known ; and each is almost
fatter than the other, and each one seems
more blue-eyed and rosy-cheeked than
its fellow mortal, until one wonders
whether any human being could have the
heart to chastise or correct such engaging
little souls, whatever might be the mischief
which Satan found for their fat little
idle hands to do, until that mischief took
the shape of personal aggression and
aggravation to one's own self.

Having made them thoroughly to
understand and digest the fact, that he
must draw the line somewhere, and that
he draws it at ^^jammy fingers'' Alan
Bering remained unmolested whilst the

twins partook of some Gateau ii la
Neapolitan, well smeared with apricot
preserve. But as soon as lunch was
over, and their fat and fubsy little paws
had been well polished in an adjacent
finger-glass, they set upon him with one
consent, and with much coaxing and
dumb show prevailed upon the young
man to let them accompany him to the
billiard-room, where he intended indulging
in a peaceful after-lunch smoke.

No sooner did they arrive in this
coveted haven than a bewildering sense
of decorum stole over both of the little fat
maidens, and solemnly they seated themselves
upon two footstools exactly opposite
Alan's arm chair, and fixed their
round blue eyes on him with a most
harassing and pertinacious stare, denoting
much awe and interest.

^^ What makes de 'moke so long coming'

VOL. I. 3

out of oo's mouth?" observed Posy at
last, with grave curiosity.

Before Alan can reply, Tosy settles the
question by observing.

'^ 'Cause de 'moke goes down 'is inside,
of course ! " with which explanation they
both remain perfectly satisfied.

^^Does 'ou love sweeties? " asks Tosy,
after a pause.

'^ No, not very much ; why ? "

'^ Posy loves sweeties lorry much,"
remarks Tosy suggestively.

Posy sighs deeply, and folds her little
fat hands over her waist firmly, as if to
carry out the role of suppressed longing
which her sister assigns to hers

'^ You wicked little humbugging brats ! "
laughed Alan Dering at last, as he produced
some chocolate sugar-plums from
his pocket which he had hidden there at
luncheon time, but not so cautiously as

to have escaped the two pair of brie eyes
intent upon his movements.

^^Mr. Bering," and Mary Graham's
cheerful, bustling face appeared at the
door, ^' this is the only room in the house
which is not occupied by a whole lot of
people, and would you very much mind
if I left Mrs. Jinks' baby (she's our
curate's wife, you know, and this is her
eleventh) in here for five minutes, whilst

she gets some luncheon '? It's as good as

•

gold, and will lie flat on the floor without
giving any trouble. Now mind, Posy
and Tosy, that you don't tease it ? "

^'Us wouldn't for de world ! " assured
the twill in a breath, with much solemnity
; and Mary departed to cater for the
comfort of the infant's maternal parent,
who apparently was quite contented to
leave her offspring to its fate. But as
this latter was said to be Mrs. Jinks'

eleventh achievement in that Hne, her
callousness was perhaps not quite so
much to be wondered at.

For a minute or two all went well,
then the baby began to wriggle and to get
very red in the face, obviously preparing
to ^'boil up " a most stentorian roar.

^'It's going' to cwy ! " remarks Tosy to
Alan, solemnly.

*^ Good Lord ! what am I to do with
it ? " exclaims that much perplexed young
man, as the baby gives unerring proof of
the truth of Tosy's statement.

^^ Suppose 'ou carry it to de sofa?"
suggests Posy.

So lamentably ignorant is Mr. Dering
on the subject of infants that he grasps
at even Posy's advice with a gleam of
hope, and tries hard to collect the baby
and lift it up from off the floor.

Hardly has he progressed two steps

with his burthen ere he feels the task
to be one which it is utterly beyond his
nerve to accomplish.

^'Oli, Lord, its head is coming off!
I must let it drop," he wails piteously,
and deposits the baby once more hurriedly
on the ground, right in the middle of
the room ; then, sitting down in his chair
and resuming his cigar, he surveys it
with disgusted astonishment.

^^I'ates babies, doesn't 'oo ? " remarks
Tosy, sympathetically, reading the expression
on his face with all a child's
quickness.

'indeed I do!" groans her much
enduring auditor.

But the infant had been so much
startled by its sudden elevation, and
equally sudden subsequent degradation,
that it maintained a profound silence,
and Alan Dering resumed his interrupted

cigar and disturbed meditations with
some prospect of peaceful calm once
more.

Before many minutes had passed, however,
his reverie was suddenly disturbed
by odd little '' squires " and other strange
noises, and looking round he perceived
Tosy and Posy intent on balancing the
baby in a sitting position against the
wall, near to which they had carefully
dragged it.

^' What are you about, you children ? "
exclaimed Alan indignantly. " What are
you doing with that wretched baby ? "

''We'se only teaching' it to 'sit up,'
same as we reached the terrier puppy this
morning," responded Posy calmly, letting
go of the unfortunate baby as she spoke,
and allowing it to roll summarily on to
its face. Tosy righted it with a vehement
shove, whereupon the long-suffering

infant once again got somewhat red in
the face and prepared for a wail, the very
prospect of which caused Alan's fingers
to be clapt nervously to his sensitive ears.

At this juncture Mary Graham bustled
in once more, and picking up the baby
she quickly hushed it in her kind motherly
arms ; whilst darting a scrutinizing look
at Posy and Tosy, she inquired —

*have you children been teasing this
baby?"

''Oh, no, indeed we hasn't!" asseverated
those fat little mortals, with such
a look of convincing innocence in their
round blue eyes as caused Alan Dering
fully to realise how singularly early in
life the female mind becomes capable of
deception.

It being, however, rather a case of
"honour amongst thieves," and as to
tell of the baby's enforced acrobatic feat

might also entail the revelation of his
own unsuccessful attempt at transporting
that ill-starred eleventh hope of the
house of Jinks, Mr. Dering was reduced
to the silence which means consent ; and
so Miss Graham departed in peace,
followed in silent dignity by the plump
little twins, whose back view, as they
receded from sight, left nothing but a
vision of two huge blue sashes and two
mops of ^' crepe " golden hair, which
would not have disgraced the heads of
the most mediaeval saints on record.

Chapter III.

LORD ERCILDOUN S DAUGHTER.

*' Pink and white the blossoms fell,
Quivering down through the summer air,
On the shaven sward so trim and bare.
Oh, I remember well
The very network of the tree,
And its shadows dancing; on her and me.

'Tis strange to think of now, and yet
'Twere stranger, harder, to forget."

Lost.

Two hours later, as Alan Deriug sauntered
across the wide lawn, now crowded
with chairs and tea-tables, bright dresses,
and occasional clerical black coats, or
still rarer light coloured ones, he discerned
from afar the blue dress of Mary

Graham, who was apparently surrounded
by a bevy of protectress fair ones — a
sight which awoke in his heart some
sense of duty, though possibly little
sympathy.

The tone of relief in which poor Mary
at once introduced him to the two Misses
Gobang, who were fast and flighty, and
the two Misses Sandbag, who were heavy
and cumbersome — showed that he guessed
the situation aright ; and so he put a
good face on the matter, and fetched and
carried, and procured tea for all, with an
apparent alacrity which won him golden
opinions in the mind of his harassed
young hostess.

But the general conversation languished
and proved a most uphill task,
for as the Misses Gobang laughed superciliously
at each inane and proper remark
made by the Misses Sandbag, whilst

the latter in their turn shrugged their
shoulders sneeringly at every word of
slang (and these were many) which fell
from the lips of their rivals, it became
a work of real ingenuity to find any
subject in common which should please
all parties, and both Mr. Dering and Miss
Graham glanced at each other in comic
despair.

Suddenly a new arrival appeared on the
scene, and amidst a dead silence, full of
mingled surprise and curiosity, all eyes
were turned on a tall, slight figure,
dressed in white, which emerged from
the shaded trellis-work alley close behind
the group.

Though opinions might have differed
as to what claims on actual beauty were
possessed by the new comer, no one could
have denied that her appearance was
beyond measure striking. Father above

the usual height of women, and with a
head carried singularly erect, there was
an air rather of proud defiance, not only
in her attitude, but also in the fearless
dark grey eyes which calmly surveyed
the party before her, resting with tranquil
scrutiny on each face in turn. There was
singular resolution and powder in every
feature of the pale, quiet, and somewhat
sad face, and a look of stern capacity,
more befitting a man's expression, perhaps,
than a woman's, gave the only
index to their possessor having already
reached the age of three-and-twenty, for
in all else she looked nothing more than
an overgrown child.

But her mouth was the new arrival's
most striking characteristic. Finely cut
lips, which each instant could scarce
restrain a sensitive quiver, and a strange
€ver- varying expression, sometimes bright

and gay like a merry child's, sometimes
sad and sweet like a weary woman's, the
capacity of feeling pain and yet bravely
enduring it, made itself realised in some
indefinable way whilst looking at that
beautiful mouth. In all other respects
her attributes were pleasant enough
though there was nothing out of the
common in either the dark hair, arranged
neatly and close to the head, or in the
grey eyes, with their royally fearless-glance.
And yet this same fearlessness
was not that of frankness and confidence,
but rather the fearlessness of some wild
animal which knows no fear simply because
it knows no human beings, and
rocks not of the pain and sorrow which
a knowledge of their world and its ways.
must bring into its own.

No ardent disciples of the 'fleshly
school," no sensual worshippers of mere

outward beauty of form and face, no
votary of rank and fashion, as portrayed
by frizzled tones or "school of art"
vesture, would ever have allowed their
eyes to rest more than an instant on a
face so utterly free from all these advantages
as was this one so pure, refined,
and proud; but an artist or a dreamer
would have glanced at it again and again,
and each time that he did so would have
discovered fresh attraction in the strange
strength of mingled sadness and sweetness
to be found there.

Her dress, too, was quaint and unlike
that of others. Simple white, and plain
to a fault ; yet the lace scarf wound
across her shoulders was of extraordinary
rarity and fineness; whilst in each
of her little shell-like ears, and glancing
out like small sparks of fire from under
the shade of a large, old-fashioned black

ft

velvet hat, shone two single diamonds,
which alone would in olden days have
been worth a king's ransom.

^'I am Cecil Enliven," said the new
arrival, in a low, clear voice, and after
a moment's hesitation, holding out, as
she spoke, a small but gloveless hand to
Mary Graham, who had courteously advanced
to welcome this fresh acquisition
to their party. And straightway kindly
Mary smiled on her with cordial satisfaction,
and introduced her to the other:
four young ladies, who were now standing
a little apart, engaged in discussing
Miss Kuthven's quaint style of dress,
with a vicious zest which proved that
here at least was a neutral ground on
which the opinions of all the fair antagonists
could safely meet.

Miss Kuthven made 'a deep and old-fashioned
curtsey to the company at

large, in acknowledgment of her introduction,
and a perceptible smile of sarcasm
crossed the countenances of the four
fashionable young ladies confronting
her; but it died away abashed before
the stranger's steady scrutiny, as her
eyes travelled from face to face and
rested quietly on each for the space of
a few seconds, with the look of one
who expects to meet naught but foes,,
yet still seeks for the face of a friend.

Perhaps there was a shade more kindliness
in Alan Bering's eyes than in any
others, for those of Miss Euthven rested
on them with slightly more confidence
than could • be read in her own as she
met the hard bright orbs of the Misses
Gobang, and the dull leaden ones of the
Misses Sandbag, relentlessly fixed upon
her.

^' Won't you have a cup) of tea'*

inquired Mary Graham of her new guest ;
and straightway she despatched Mr,
Dering in quest of that luxury.

On his return he found Cecil Euthven
delivered over to the tender mercies of
the four fair sisters, for Miss Graham's
manifold duties as hostess had soon
called her away, and numerous were the
questions and cross-questions with which
they plied her, each after their kind.

"Do you like garden-parties?" asked
Miss Gobang the elder, '' or do you think
them awfully slow ? "

'^I hardly know," hesitated Cecil; "I
never was at one before."

'^ Oh ! " in an accent of frigid amazement.


I dare say you'll like it much better
when the hop — I mean the dance —
begins later on," suggested Miss Gobang
the younger, more kindly.

VOL. I. 4

*^ I can't dance," was the reply, in a
brusque tone, which told plainly of the
mauvaise honte felt by the speaker in
making such an acknowledgment.

*'0h!" was again the only comment
made in return.

The Misses Sandbag stared at her
stupidly, and made no attempt a^ yet
towards starting any subject of conversation
whatsoever.

^^ Have you had a long drive ? " pursued
Miss Gobang categorically.

** About eleven miles."

*' Oh ! I call that immensely long.
Had you a fast gee — a fast horse, I
mean? "

^' Yes, he goes fast."

*' Do you drive yourself? "

^^Yes."

By this time Alan Dering arrived with
Miss Kuthven's cup of tea, an sundry

expressive glances and secret shrugs of
the shoulders from her fair examiners
gave him to understand that the duty
of entertaining her was likely to be an
arduous undertaking.

But, little as he felt inclined to struggle
through a dreary attempt at amusing a
young lady whom it was apparently impossible
to amuse, Mr. Dering felt still
less inclination for the wearisome chatter

and stolid inanity of his late fair come


pinions ; so, when Miss Kuthven had

drunk her tea and consumed her square

inch of bread and butter, he politely

proposed to show her the conservatories,

and they were soon slowly wending their

way towards the less crowded part of the

grounds.

^'Do you care much about flowers?"

inquired Alan, as they neared the first

of those great glass palaces.

UBR^R^

nC

^'I think so," answered his companion,
shyly ; then added, with a little hesitation,
"you know we have no conservatories
at Ercildoim, and so 1 have never seen
any but common flowers."

*well, these are scarcely common, I
suppose," laughed Alan, as he flung wide
open the door of a large conservatory and
ushered in Miss Ruthven.

In truth, the sight presented to her
now was very far from common. The
high walls at the back were one mass
of foliage and moss — crimson and grey
bignonias, feathery "maiden-hair " ferns,
and shining deep emerald green "harts
" — all vied with each other how
best to please the eye with their glory and
colour. And on an artificial bank below
the wall grew every sort and kind of
moss, surrounding a marble basin, on
which floated cold, quiet water lilies in
serene content.

In the middle of the conservatory was
a glorious array of tropical plants, and
under the shadow of two large palm trees
was planted a perfect mass of small
orange trees, the heavy, intoxicating
odour of which crept over the soul like a
honied sleep.

^^ This is my favourite seat ; one can
never tire of this place," remarked Alan
Dering, after a pause, and pointing to
a low, well-cushioned hence close to the
orange trees.

Like all men of sensitive nerves and
temperament, he was more keenly susceptible
to the influence of their languid,
drowsy sweetness than he himself knew,
and for the moment he almost regretted
having brought a stranger to disturb his
solitary appreciation of the scene.

But he regretted it no longer when, on
glancing towards Miss Euthven, he saw

the rapt delight and childish enthusiasm
which was legibly written on her face.

Oh, how lovely ! I never dreamed
of things like these ! ' ' she exclaimed ina
tone almost approaching to awe; and
as her pale face lit up, and her eyes
shone with a new bright glow of dreamy
pleasure, Mr. Bering caught himself
wondering how he could have set her
down at first as '^ nothing out of the
common," which had indeed been the
result of his first inspection of Miss
Kuthven following their introduction.
And so he was nothing loth to persuade
his companion into sharing with him the
comfortably cushioned seat already mentioned,
and, whilst he smoked a cigarette,
to endeavour to extract what ideas nature
might have bestowed on this most unsophisticated
maiden of the ^^ North
Countries."

CHAPTEK IV.

EUCHAEIS LILIES.

Since then,
He had made it a law, in his commerce with men,
That intensity in him, which only left sore
the heart it disturb' d, to repel and ignore.

He H( 4« * !H

Yet, indeed, deep within him, the spirits of truth, *

Vast, vague aspirations, the powers of his youth.

Lived and breathed, and made moan — stirr'd themselves —

strove to start
Into deeds — though deposed, in that Hades, his heart."

Lucile.

''I NEED not ask now-whether you like
flowers, Miss Kuthven, for your face
alone tells me that," observed Alan, after
a pause, during which he had studied the
fair face beside him with more attention
than the occasion appeared to warrant.

Cecil Ruthven started, but instead of
the becoming blush which orthodox young
ladies are supposed to cultivate when
suddenly finding themselves the cynosure
of masculine eyes, she only looked at him
calmly with her clear, candid eyes, and
answered leisurely —

^' I suppose it is the flowers which I
admire so much, but it almost seems tome
as if their scent had even a stronger
influence over one than their beauty. It
creeps over me so strangely that I feel
quite dreamy and stupid."

That's just what I like, but I thought
no one confessed to that weakness save
myself ; " and Mr. Dering turned and
looked curiously at his companion's face,
as if striving to read there her innermost
thoughts.

These baffled him, apparently, for erelong
he began to discuss the past events

of the afternoon and the forthcoming ones
of the evening, over which they both
exchanged mutual confidences, and became
most excellent friends.

'^Mr. Dering," and Cecil's face looked
ruefully earnest, 'sis it quite hopeless forme
ever to learn to dance, now that I am
so old ? " Evidently the contempt of the
Misses Gobang and Sandbag had somewhat
rankled in Miss Euthven's mind.

'^ Of course not ! Why, I should think
many people never learn before they are
twenty, perhaps," replied Alan reassuringly.


*but I am three and twenty," said
Cecil in a disconsolate tone.

'' Are you really so much as that ? "
'^ Yes. Why do you look surprised ? "
**I scarcely know; but somehow you
look so much younger that I can scarcely
believe you are the same age as myself! "

Truly, it did seem strange that each of
them should have lived the same number
of years in the world which had set its
seal so forcibly on the face of the man
but had left the woman's deathless.

Mr. Dering caught himself vaguely
wondering where and how the difference
between himself and his companion lay ;
but one glance at her eager face and
bright, speaking eyes, brought home to
him the wide gulf which lay between this
unsophisticated and insatiate young
soul, so keenly anxious to take its part in
the strife and turmoil of life's battle-field,
and his own already half-wearied, wholly
disillusionised heart and mind.

On Alan Dering, with his sensitive,
reserved nature, and singular intensity of
character, the many minor disappointments
of life, the endless Dead Sea apples,
which Fate deals to those who in their

hot-headed youth beg and pray for life's
experience, had not been without sore
effect. True, the common sense, of
which nature had given him no small
share, allied as it was to youth, strong
health, and a great love for active outdoor
occupations, had come to the rescue
and saved him from that morbid feeling
of utter distrust in men, women, life,
and all things, so common to weaker
minds ; and though he possessed a good
deal of the dreaminess and idealism which!
is the usual accompaniment to refined
and unconsciously artistic natures, still
his habits and pursuits, his whole line in
life, had simply made-him what his friends
so justly described : ^^ a man of the world,
a sportsman, and a gentleman." In
heart, temper, and passions, he was
listless and difficult to arouse; a man,
who, though realising to the full the

pleasures of life, could never be really
touched save through the purest and
most chivalrous side of his nature ; but
capable, when once the 'open sesame"
should have rung out its command over
his soul, of the most reckless loyalty and
devotion which human heart ever gave to
its ideal ; a man with all a man's weakness,
redeemed by unswerving strength
and faith when once his hour should have
come.

He was quite willing to believe that
there were roses in the world worth
gathering, but for his part he could not
see them ; perhaps they were hidden
from him, perhaps they were after all
only 'blue roses;" certain it was that
they were not worth the pain and trouble
of a search. Yet, whilst drifting aimlessly
down life's current, and laughing
with easy, careless cynicism at the world

and its ways, there were times when
Alan Dering felt scarcely content with
his own share in the wild tangled dream
which we mortals call ^^Life." Momenta
there were when a yearning for something
to believe in, some power strong enough
to rouse him from his natural dreamy
indolence into clear and active purpose,
took possession of his soul, to the great
disturbance of the latter's peace for the
time being ; and then a feverish unrest,
and an unsatisfied craving for some
deeper and truer aim and purpose in life,,
seemed to pervade his whole being. But
these phases of feeling were seldom of
any long duration, and the old dreamy
listlessness of heart and mind seemed to
creep over him ere long once more, for
the one great *open sesame" remained
as yet unsounded.

** But can you really not dance at all ? ""
inquired Mr. Dering, after a while.

^^ Not the least bit," answered his companion,
truthfully.

*^ Then I shall ask you to sit out one or
two dances with me this evening, if you
will, Miss Kuthven?" observed Alan,
feeling that it was a feat quite beyond
his energy to teach an ignorant young
woman her first steps in dancing.

Cecil looked a shade disappointed, as
though she had expected him to volunteer
greater assistance towards solving the
momentous problem than this quiescent
submission to fate seemed to promise.

^' I suppose it is just because I can't
do it, that I think so much of being
able to dance," she said with a wistful
smile.

*^ No fear but what you will know how
to dance some day. Miss Euthven ; " and
Alan Dering almost regretted to think
what a change a few more years would

probably make in bis present frank, unsophisticated
companion.

The conversation drifted gradually off
to the subject of Miss Euthven's own self,
her pursuits, occupations, and interests ;
and stranger grew the revelations of life
and character which each moment she
unconsciously laid before her listener's
wondering gaze.

Her naturally proud and reserved nature
made it a considerable effort to her to
speak frankly and openly to a stranger ;
yet her singular ignorance of the world
and fearlessness of all criticism, gave hera
great longing to accept the quiet, unobtrusive
interest and sympathy given to
each recital of hers now.

'^ I have heard of your father," said
Mr. Dering once, when Cecil paused fora
moment in her vivid description of
Ercildoun and its grand weird beauty;

^'I think that he and an uncle of mine,
whose name is Dumaresqiie, were once
great friends in the days of their youth."
He did not add that probably Lord
Ercildoun's well-known eccentricities of
temper and disposition had succeeded
in estranging him from one and all of
those who might once have called him
friend.

^' Do you think so really ? It may be
so," answered Miss Kuthven thoughtfully;
^' but I never hear him mention
any one, friend or foe."

*' And you live always alone ? "

^^ Always, ever since Father Dunois
died. He was our chaplain and my
tutor, and he taught me Latin and
French and everything."

^*Do you care for reading?" asked
Alan, inwardly wondering how soon he
should cut his own throat were he too

condemned to such a life of solitary confinement.


*^ More than all else in the world ! "
and Cecil's face lit up like that of a
mother who speaks of her favourite child,

^' And what sort of books do you read?"
inquired her companion curiously.

"^ Well, ' Shakespeare,' ' Hannah More,'
Travels,' in every part of the world,
endless 'Legends,' both Danish and
Norse, and — oh ! and then I often read
such a pretty French book called ' Les
Amours d'Adolphe.' "

'^ Good heavens ; that sounds rather
a mixture ! " exclaimed Alan aghast. ^' I
shouldn't have let you read that last book
if I had anything to say to it," he adds
severely.

Why not ? It's such a pretty story
you can't think how pretty."

'' What's it about ? " asked Mr. Dering,

VOL. I. 5

suspicious and unconvinced. '' Is
Adolph ' a good young man on the
whole ? "

sewell, I hardly know," said Cecil
slowly and thoughtfully. '* I should have
described him as very, very good indeed,
for he has such charming sentiments
always, especially about ' sa mere'' but I
think it's odd the way he makes love to
so many ladies at once, or is that right
in France?" and Miss Euthven's clear
eyes look calmly at her companion's face
for instruction.

*^ I suppose they do it there," assented
Alan gravely. "And in other countries
as well," added his conscience inwardly.
But doesn't it make the situation
rather a complicated one for * le crier
Adol:phef'''

"■ No, oh ! no," said Cecil reassuringly,
*^ for he never marries one of them in the

end, and so of course there's no harm
done to any one."

^^ Of course," assented Mr. Dering
again, gravely. sand so this 'ladies'
man' M. Adolph, is your beau ideal of
what a man should be, I suppose?" he
continued after a pause, during which his
thoughts had been engaged in philosophical
reflections on the advantages
and disadvantages of a thoroughly unsophisticated
mind.

'' Oh no ! very much no ! " Cecil's
face changed instantly from gay to grave,
and an expression of sternness and almost
of contempt crept over it.

^'Keally not?" and Alan Dering
watched this same change with a half
amused, half interested look.

*' Most truly not ! I should like men's
characters to be so strong and true, that
we women should recognise their strength

and lean on them in perfect trust; I
should like them to wear their lives out,
not rust them out, to live and act, not
only to think and dream. In a word, I
would have men to he men, and then we
should be loosens true and good perhaps ! "

In deep astonishment Mr. Dering gazed
at the eager face and darkening eyes of
the speaker, whose voice shook slightly at
the conclusion of her sentence. Evidently
this was a subject of importance out of
the common in the thread of her young
life, but he was too courteous to press for
further information out of mere idle
curiosity, so he only remarked quietly —

'•^ I'm going to be really good and to do
my duty now, Miss Kuthven, in the way
of carrying you off from this garden of
Eden. You know, or perhaps you don't
know, that we are all to dine soon after
seven to day, with a view to the dance

later on. Such are our hostess' orders,
and so we must, I fear, go and dress'*

^^ Dress!" exclaimed Cecil in dismay,
^' why, I brought no other dress with me,
only a pair of shoes and stockings. I did
not know anything about it, you see," she
added in a humble and yet vexed tone.

^' Then let me reassure you with the
information that hardly any of the other
ladies will change their dresses either.
It is only we men who are to be allowed
the luxury of bond fide evening clothes.
And for this arrangement Mrs. Graham's
masculine visitors may chiefly thank me,
for I believe that it was my rooted and
openly expressed objection to dancing in
any other garments which turned the
scale."

^' Can't a man dance in anything but
evening dress ? " asked Cecil, doubtfully.
^^ Are the others too heavy, or tight, or

what ? Yon see, I don't know how to
dance myself, so it's hard to understand
it all."

Well, no, it's not exactly that, perhaps,
but you see one loolis such a fool."

^^ Oh, yes," said Cecil, with much
interest. (The ways of the world were a
fruitful source of curiosity to her unenlightened
mind.) '^ I see ; it's not that
you really canH^ but because it doesn't
look so nice ? "

'^ Just so," assented Mr. Bering, with
as seriously thoughtful an expression on
his face as if it were a homily on the
tactics of the Government, of which he
was delivering himself. '' Of course a
man could ride to hounds in a frock coat
if he tried, I suppose, but a pretty fool
he'd look."

*^ Of course," replied Cecil, ignorant
but acquiescent.

*i'll tell you something you might
wear, though," exclaimed Mr. Dering, as
they rose to depart ; " some of these
lovely Eucharis lilies," and he pointed
to a cluster of those beautiful flowers ashe
spoke.

'^ May I have one or two, do you
think?" asked Cecil, joyfully. Already
the spirit of coquetry and of feminine
vanity, which had so long lain dormant,
was waking up in her woman's heart.

*^ Yes, I am sure you may. Mrs. Graham
is kindness itself about everything.
There — now with a little maiden-hair
fern mixed with it, though I'll confess
that I don't know lioiv, this will make
as pretty a bouquet for the hair as anyone
can desire."

*' Indeed it wil ; thank you so much ; "
and Miss Kuthven took it from him with
frank and sincere gratitude.

They were Alan's favourite flowers,
and lie had always nourished a sort of
silent and half-unconscious ^* sentiment "
for them, all of which he had forgotten
for the moment. But now it suddenly
recurred to him ; and it was with a feeling
of slight chagrin that he pursued his
way towards the house, seeing his pet
flowers in the careless and unrecognising
hand of a stranger.

Chapter V.

MON Neve.

"** Then she answered : * We are our own fates. Our own

deeds
Are our townsmen. Man's life was made not for men's

creeds,
But men's actions.' "

Jjucile.

<»
This leads us, the other pushes us."

Montaigne.

The gorgeous and over-gilded drawing-room
at Grahamstown House looked one
Haze of glitter and of gold in the flare of
alights innumerable, as Alan Dering
sauntered up to the doorway and looked
in, after the dancing had commenced
about an hour.

He had beguiled the first part of that

hour, if the truth must be told, by smoking
one or more cigarettes in his former
refuge, the billiard-room ; after which he
had been captured by Mary Graham and
told off to three duty dances running,
during each of which his temper became
inwardly worse and worse ; and it was
with a decidedly morose, if not positively
sulky, expression of countenance that he
now stood in the doorway contemplating
the scene of the festivities.

He looked about for his afternoon's
companion, but nowhere was Miss Euth-
even to be seen ; and he was far too indolent
by nature to take the slightest
trouble in finding anything or anybody,
even were it conducive to his own comfort
or amusement.

Close beside him stood a bevy of stout
chaperons, male and female, who were
actively engaged in admiring the airs and



graces of their own offspring during each
mazy dance, and criticising pityingly the
less favoured progeny of their neighbours.

^^ I'm glad now that I let Pamela wear
a fashionable fringe on her forehead, it
looks so nice and simple," murmured
Pamela's proud mother to a sympathetic
maiden aunt. ^^ But it cost many lessons
from Truefitt," she added regretfully,
having evidently paid dearly for the
*^ simplicity " of her ingenue.

*eyes; very different to that tall ghi
in black dancing opposite to her, whose
hair is done as tight and plain as if she
were just going to wash her face."

'^ Some countrified hoyden, who knows
nothing of the fashions, I suppose,"
suggested the mother of Pamela, pityingly,
whose ormolu mansion at Bays-water
gave her a right, she opined, to bea
judge on these subjects. ^^ Can you

tell me, who is the young lady in black,
dancing vis-a-vis to my daughter ? " she
asked of her host, who came hurrying
past at this moment.

Mr. Graham was a kindly, jovial little
soul ; a clever and conscientious man of
business, and withal far too much of a
gentleman to be in the least above acknowledging
the source from whence he
derived his wealth, or to lower and raise
his standard of courtesy to others according
to their weight in this world's
great social scale. So he now turned his
attention at once to the fair Pamela's
mother (whose husband was head manager
in the great house of Graham and Co),
and after much polishing of spectacles,
in which process he included his face for
luck, he at last succeeded in focussing
the black-robed unknown.

^^That? Oh! that is Lady Margaret

Esmond, one of the bridesmaids at the
recent royal wedding, you know;" and
Mr. Graham passed on his way, leaving
surprise, not to say consternation, behind
him.

How dowdy Laura Green looks tonight,"
murmured another ample matron
to the lord of her bosom. *^ So different
from Julia ! Who would think now, that
they were own cousins ? "

^^ Quite so, my dear," assented her
obedient spouse ; then, asserting his
manly right to some sort of an opinion,
he added, ^^but doesn't Julia stick out
too much behind, my dear ? I've no
doubt it's all right, and of course it's the
fashion, and you know best, my love ;
but — she does stick out in such a queer
way ! ' '

*' Nonsense, my dear, nonsense. I'm
sure Julia's dress is extremely pretty;

and I can assure you that it's the fashion
to * stick out ' as you call it, behind, and
not in front;" and the excellent lady
gave a nervous glance at her own figure
as she spoke, to judge whether that was
also equal to the serious task imposed by
fashion.

At this juncture a voice fell on Alan's
ear, saying —

'soh, I'll try to find Mr. Dering,
mamma. He's so good-natured, I'm
sure he will dance with Miss Podge."

*the gods forbid! " murmured Alan
to himself, as he executed a sauve qui
20Gut through the mass of chaperons behind
him. '^ A worm will turn," — he
added, as the inviting name of Podge
recurred to his memory.

Once in the long cool corridor outside
the drawing-room he felt pretty safe,
and stopped to consider whither next he

should bend his steps. At that instant
the band recommenced playing in the
ball-room, and the glorious dreamy notes
of ^' Mon Eve " stole softly and gently
out into the hall. It was Alan's favourite
valse, and he turned into the semi-darkened
library which adjoined the ballroom,
with the intention of enjoying its
strains in peace and quietness.

A crimson sofa had been pulled across
the doorway leading into the ball-room,
to prevent that exit being used instead
of the other door leading into the hall,
and on the sofa sat Cecil Euthven.

Just as Mr. Bering advanced across
the room, the girl leant forward for an
instant, so that the light from the ballroom
beyond fell full on her head. The
white Eucharis lilies in her hair were no
purer than that pale, proud face, with its
sweet, half sorrowful expression ; and the

clear, grey eyes looked wistfully tender
as they gazed with longing at the giddy
crowd of dancers beyond. Such a look
of sehnsucM as poor Mignon's might have
borne, when thinking of the Elysium she
was never more to see.

Quietly Alan watched her, struck with
a strong feeling of half surprise, and half
admiration. Though he had almost forgotten
his companion of the afternoon,
tJiis face could surely not be hers — that
pleasant, unsophisticated child's ! TJiis
was the face of a woman who could feel
and think, who could strive and suffer;
a noble and a true face, but a face
stamped with the sadness only kin to
natures which are born to suffer here, if
not hereafter.

She leaned her cheek on her hand, and
earnestly watched the scene before her,
but with non-seeing eyes ; for the sweet

tones of the valse sounded in her ears
like some far-off song from another
sphere ; and weird legends of the old
Norse land were wafted before her mind
with each rise and fall of its soft, sad notes.

*' Mon rev," mm^mm^ed Alan to himself,
and started as the idea suddenly
occurred to him : what if this girl with
the Eucharis hies in her hair were fated
to become the ideal and the dream of his
life ? Bah I he laughed to scorn a fancy
so absurd; and with one more earnest
glance at the proud, fearless face, with
its clear, far-away eyes — a picture he was
destined never hereafter utterly to forget
he advanced to the sofa, and took his
place quietly beside her.

^'How well you have hidden yourself
all the evening. Miss Euthven ; even
your best friends would have failed to
find you."

VOL. 1. 6

^' I have no claim on any friends, small
or great," answered Cecil Eutliven, with
a touch of regret in her frank voice ;
** and you know I cannot dance, so
should only be in the way in there," and
she nodded her head towards the hall-room
as she spoke.

*but wouldn't you come and sit there
and talk to the other people ? Aren't
you bored here ? " asked Mr. Dering,
with well-meant kindness.

^^ Bored? Do you mean emiiiye, dull?
Oh, no ! How could I be, with such a
lovely sight to look at ? And then the
music ! " And Miss Kuthven pressed her
hands together tightly, as if to pinch
herself and make sure that she were
not really in the fairyland where her
thoughts had erstwhile flown to.

^' That is my favourite valse," said her
companion, feeling a sudden and unaccountable

desire for her sympathy, even
on this trivial topic.

^asit? What is it called ? "

^'MonKeve."

"I shall not forget." And Alan felt
quite content with the rapt admiration
betrayed in that laconic response.

A feeling of very decided regret came
over his mind as he remembered how
unlikely it was that he would ever again
meet his companion of the hour, and it.
was with almost a smile at his own folly
that he asked her —

^^ Don't you ever leave home, Miss
Kuthven ? Never go to London, or anywhere
? "

'^ No, never."

^'But isn't it woefully dull, living in
this wild uninhabited country ? I should
cut my throat if I were left here even
half a winter."

'soil no, yon wouldn't," laughed the
gui. " There's plenty to do, I can tell
yon, and no time to think of suicide.
Why, Ercildonn is one of the most
dangerous headlands on the northern
coast ! And many a time I've been
woke np at night by the sound of those
terrible minute guns at sea, and then
there's hurrying to and fro, and we dress
ourselves in hot haste — Janet (that's my
old nurse) and I — and we rush down to
the rocks below the castle, where the
rockets are blazing up. And sometimes,"
here Cecil's voice grew hushed
and low, 'rit is very, verj^ terrible, for
the wreck of a ship comes drifting in,,
and one can, perhaps, see some of those
on board still clinging to her; and one
can almost hear their wails of despairs
rocket after rocket is sent over towards
them nth the rope, only too often

just to light up the scene of their agony
for one instant, and then to fall into the
sea and extinguish — leave black darkness
over all."

Cecil Kuthven's face looked pale and
set as she spoke of these things, and
Alan asked quickly —

'^ Why do they let you see such scenes,
so young as you are ? "

'« Why am I there, you ask? " and the
girl's voice rings out in clear and almost
reproachful tones. '^ To liel;p — why else
should I go?"

^' But how— to help?"

because when the tide sets in to
shore, it sometimes washes some poor
soul on the rocks, and once or twice
there has been some spark of life left
even then. And Janet and I can at
least send the men back to their work
of rescue, and sit beside the poor half

drowned soul in the rough hut built on
the sea shore, and do what little we canto
bring them back to Hfe and save it."

*^ Still I maintain that it's not a fit
thing for a child like you to meddle in
such scenes as those," exclaimed Alan,
with unusual energy.

'don't say that," answered Cecil,,
eagerly. 'rit is the one only little bit
of good in the whole world that I can
ever do — there is nothing else," and a
wistful, half-despairing tone crept into
her voice as she spoke.

Alan remained silent. After all, what
right had ho to find fault with her?
Then' ages were the same, and it struck
him oddly that though an occasional act
of kindness or generosity to some friend
in trouble had been the sum total of Ms
"help" to others in the weary battle of
Life, yet that sie had done much more

than this in giving hours of pain and
weary watching, fighting to the last, with
womanly tenderness and with almost
manly courage, the fell destroyer's power.

But still, he had all a true Englishman's
dislike to women mingling in
scenes such as these, and so he answered
shortly —

^' Well, I can't help thinking that
Janet, as you call her, might do all this
without your help. Miss Kuthven. Such
experiences as these must surely harden
a woman's heart, and deaden much
sensitive feeling."

There was no answer, but a world of
reproach looked up at him from two tear-laden
grey eyes, and the quivering mouth
looked sad and tender enough, as the
girl turned and faced him with an
anxious, wondering gaze.

^' I beg your pardon ; I should not have

said that*' said Alan quickly. ^' Of
course nothing can lii; a true woman,
and I honour you for doing you' hest
in so good a cause," he added, in contrite
apology to her obviously Wounded
feelings, more than fi'om any change of
opinion on his own part. ^' T\H1 you
forgive my hasty condemnation ? "

Of comes ! " and a little white hand
was offered him fi*anMy, as its owner rose
to depart. ''I must be going now, Mr.
Bering, will you be so very kind as to
help me find my carriage ? "

"Yes, of course I will, if you really
wish to go so soon, Miss Euthven." And
they both rose and went out into the
great hall, where stray couples of dancers
were parading up and down trying to
cool themselves after their exertions.

"I'm afraid you will have to dive into
that Pandemonium of glare and heat to

say good-bye to you* hostess, Miss Paitli-
even," said Alan, nodding his head towards
the ball-room as he spoke.

A look of dismay crossed Cecil's face
at sight of the crowd, but she evidently
realized the just rights of courtesy, and
quietly dropping her companion's arm as
they arrived at the doorway, she advanced
straight to where Mrs. Graham
sat in state, sounded by the more
honor-able guests of the hour.

'* Good-bye, Mrs. Graham;" and ian
Dering could detect no mauvaise honte in
the clear decisive tones as they fell on
his ear; "I thank you for the great
pleasure you have given me in showing
me my first ball."

'not at all, my dear, not at all!"
exclaimed Mrs. Graham, with good-natured
fussiness. 'rand you mustn't
call this a ball you know, for it's only

just a little dance. Your father must
let you come again to see us, if he
will?" she added kindly, as she remembered
the desolate life led by her young
guest.

^^ Oh, indeed, I should so like it ! " and
no truer flattery was ever offered a
hostess than lay in the girl's honest
joyful tones as she spoke.

'that's a bargain then, my dear,"
said Mrs. Graham, shaking hands with
Miss Kuthven heartily, and as she turned
and went her way, little did both surmise
inter what changes of time and
circumstances they should meet again
in after years.

^' Now, will you wait in the hall
whilst I go and find your servant, Miss
Euthven?" suggested Alan Dering, as
she once more rejoined him.

*' Oh, the dogcart will be quite ready,"

assured Cecil. ^^ It is nearly teu o'clock
and I sent Davie a message to bring it
round at half-past nine. Yes, there it is,
standing under that big tree," she added,
peering out into the moonlight from
where she stood in the great house porch,
putting on her hat.

Even as she spoke, the vehicle mentioned
moved out into the moonlight and
drew up before the hall-door. A strange
old-fashioned conveyance it was, with an
equally strange old servant driving it,
whose shrivelled, wizened face gave one
the impression of a resurrectionised
mummy.

Mummy-like, also, he never uttered a
word, but crept down from his place in
the front and up to his place at the back
of the dogcart, like a noiseless old ape,
and with apparently just as little
manners.

The gaunt, grey horse which had the
honour of drawing Miss Euthven's carriage,
was as strange looking as everything
else ; he had the look of an animal
which might be used to many odd
Journeys and queer occupations, and his
startled look, and the nervous cock of
his long and restless ears, betokened
much uneasiness at the sights and sounds
of civilized life to which he was evidently
little accustomed.

The violent plunge also which he made
into his collar, when finally started, and
the pace at which he rattled the crazy
old vehicle down the avenue leading from
Grahamstown House, left no doubt in Mr.
Bering's mind that the old grey horse
was quite aware of his own and his
cargo's unsuit ability for scenes of lightness
and festivity ; and as the last stroke
of his fast-trotting hoofs resounded faraway

on the high road, Alan Dering
turned to re-enter the house with the
inwardly spoken comment in his hearty
*^ so ends lion rev I "

Chapter YI.

Chabot.

■" Down drops the red sun ; through the gloaming
They burst — raging waves of the sea
Foaming out their own shame — ever foaming
Their leprosy up with fierce glee ;
Flung back from the stone, snowy fountains
Of feathery flakes, scarcely flag
Where shock after shock, the green mountains
Explode on the iron-grey crag.

The salt spray with ceaseless commotion
Leaps round me. I sit on the verge
Of the cliff — 'twixt the earth and the ocean —
With feet overhanging the surge ;
In thy grandeur, oh sea ! we acknowledge.
In thy fairness, oh earth ! we confess,
Hidden truths that are taught in no college,
Hidden songs that no parchments express."

Ashtaroth.

But Mr. Dering erred in this idea, as
lie found out a very few mornings later.
When he descended into the diningroom

for breakfast, and glanced in passing
sat the numerous collection of letters lying
on the sideboard there, his own name
written in a strange handwriting caught
his eye. Taking the letter up, he studied
its address with some curiosity and with
a faint remembrance of having seen
somewhere before the odd, unconventional
telegraphy visible thereon. Finally
he opened it, and read as follows : —

Ercildoim Castle, August 30tli.

'dear Me. Dering,

'' My father desires me to say
that he well remembers your uncle, Mr.
Dumaresque, and, for his sake, will be
most glad to give you a cordial welcome
to Ercildoun, if you have leisure to come
there for a few days at any time ?

'yours truly,

Cecil Euthven.
^'P.S. — I'm afraid you will find Ercil-

doiin very different to Mr. Graham's
beautiful house ; but, please, will you try
not to mind much, for I never knew
father to ask nne one here before."

The first half of the letter had evidently
been written from dictation, but
the latter half was plainly Cecil's own;
and with a vague wonder as to whether
there were any fishing to be got at
Ercildoun, if he went there for a few
days just to kill time until he should go
south for Done aster, Alan Dering rushed
upon his fate by writing an acceptance
to Lord Ercildoun' s invitation, and
naming that day week for the time of
his arrival, if convenient to all.

One day being much the same as
another at Ercildoun, and to those who
were its inmates, it where needless to say
that the one selected by Mr. Dering

proved also to be the one on which the
strange dog-cart, and still stranger old
man and grey horse, came over betimes
to convey him back there.

Many times during the course of the
journey did Alan try to gain indirect
pieces of information concerning his
future host, or the latter' s place of
residence, but all in vain. The '^ mummy "
either could not or would not speak save
in monosyllables, and his short '' I cinna
ken," or ^'I canna tell," effectually
extinguished Mr. Bering's attempts at
affable converse.

So, what between the taciturnity of
Lord Ercildoun's henchman and the scant
information which his friends, the Grahams,
had been able to offer him anent
that eccentric peer and his wild domain,
Alan found himself more in the dark
respecting his prospects for the next few

VOL. I. 7

days than had ever been the case in his
life before.

It was past six o'clock when they drew
near to Ercildoun Castle ; for nothing
would make Mrs. Graham consent to her
guest's departure before afternoon tea.
^^ You may be glad of it, for who kigows
whether you will get any dinner?" she
said, lugubriously.

*not so bad as that, I hope," Alan
had laughingly answered; but now he
began somehow to feel less certain of this
fact; and his spirits sank at first view
of the eerie old castle which they were
fast approaching with every stroke of the
big grey horse's rapid trot.

The road, which as yet had led chiefly
through great desolate tracts of heather-covered
moorland, now began to wind
upwards in gradual gyrations ; for Ercil-
down Castle stood very high — so high

that the great shoulder of rock on which
it was built quite shut out all view of the
sea until one had almost reached the very-place
itself. Within one hundred yards
of the wide entrance into the old paved
courtyard, which lay at the back of the
castle on its land side, the road swept
round a sudden curve on to a wide rocky
plateau, from whence a strangely glorious
view met Alan Bering's wondering eyes.

At last the sea itself lay before him,
but so far down below that the sea-gulls
floating on the white-crested waves,
looked like mere specks of foam in the
distance. Sheer and straight, from out
of the very waves, rose the grand rugged
cliffs known as Ercildoun Head, on the
very highest of which towered the old
C££S tie, [grim and grey. Half of the immense
pile was obviously in ruins, and
Alan could see the setting sun shining

right through the great arched windows
of a smaller tower like a chapel, which
being built on the outer cliff, seemed
hanging over the very sea itself. Long
bits of broken, crumbling walls, and twa
or three ruined towers, joined the old
chapel on to the main building itself
and here again a strange desolation met
the eye. For every window that had
lattice panes in it, there were at least
three or four perfectly guiltless of either
glass or anything else ; and the ivy hung
in masses over these ruined casements
giving an impression of utter darkness
and loneliness within.

Not a living creature seemed about tho
place, not a sound stirred the air, save
the hoarse cry of the sea-birds as they
flew to and fro below the cliffs, and truly
Alan's heart sank within him at sight of
the wild and desolate abode where he had

SO rashly consented to entomb himself
for many indefinite hours.

The gaunt grey horse never slacked
pace until he had swung into the great
courtyard, rattling the crazy old vehicle
behind him most ruthlessly over the
rough 'cobble-stones which paved it
throughout.

Mr. Dering sprang out of the carriage
and looked about him helplessly. The
^' mummy," without speaking a word,
proceeded slowly to unharness the horse
and then to lead the latter into a place
looking more like a dungeon than a
stable, — so dark was the entrance, so solid
was the stone archway leading into it.

Finding no one inclined to take out his
luggage, or even his wraps, fishing rods,
gun cases, and other innumerable small
comforts with which he invariably
travelled, Alan came to the conclusion

it were better to do it himself; and then
having accomplished this task at last
he stood shivering and disconsolate in
the keen antrim air, looking vainly
around for the welcome which apparently
had on this occasion totally failed him.

*^I am so sorry you have been waiting
here, Mr. Dering," said a quiet voice
behind him at last. ^^ I did not know
you had come ; the sea-fowl are so noisy
to-night, that they quite drowned all
sound of wheels."

As Mr. Dering turned round, Cecil
Kuthven stood before him holding out
her hand in the so long retarded welcome,
and a sudden changed feeling of confidence
and rest seemed to creep over him
at sound of her clear soothing voice.

'eyes, their voices aren't of the most
melodious," he assented laughingly;
*' but I suppose you are too used to them
to mind ? ' '

^' Oh no, I don't mind them. They
are ' company ' you see," and the simple
words brought home to her auditor's
mind a realization of what life must belike
midst such loneliness as this !

Cecil Kuthven looked much the same
as on the day of Mrs. Graham's well-remembered
fete, only instead of the
white dress worn then, she now wore one
of plain brown Holland, but with the selfsame
black velvet hat which Alan could
well recollect hearing severely criticised
by the Misses Gobang and Sandbag on
that memorable day.

"Let us go in, you must be cold," said
Miss Kuthven, and she led the way
towards a heavy oaken door studded with
large iron nails, which was evidently the
only usable entrance into Ercildoun
Castle.

The door creaked dismally on its

hinges and opened itself slowly, as if in
surly discontent at the intrusion of
stranger steps within its portals, and then
shut to again with a reproachful crash,
which irresistibly reminded Mr. Dering
of a peevish, ^' I told you so ! "

They wound their way through long
and vaulted stone passages; up stone
steps did they mount, down stone stairs
did they descend, and still no living
creature save his conductress and himself
seemed to inhabit this cheerless pile of
ruin and desolation.

At last they reached a wide staircase
of black oak, surmounted on each side by
a quaint balustrade, ornamented with
carven cherubim in impossible attitudes —
and turning short to the right, Cecil
threw open a door and led the way into a
large high hall, the warmer temperature
of which gave notice that it was one

of the residential spots in the huge
mansion.

In reality, it was almost the only
habitable room in the castle, a fact which
had not dawned upon Mr. Bering's mind
as yet, and so it were as well to describe
it.

In length about eighty feet, in width
nearly forty, and of a height apparently
incalculable, there was yet an air of
rough comfort about this vast room
which was pleasing to the eye and soothing
to the senses. The entrance door
was right in the centre, and at each end
of the hall was a large open fireplace,
and the great turf and wood fires roaring
in each, gave a bright, cheerful aspect to
the huge chamber, lighting up the dark
panelled walls as the narrow turret
windows alone could assuredly not have
done, and bringing out strange lights and

shadows on the many iron shields and
suits of armour with which the walls were
covered.

On a carpeting of coarse matting, and
before one of the two fireplaces, stood a
long table covered with its white cloth,
obviously the general dinner table ; whilst
at the other end of the vast hall, several
armchairs pulled round the fire, a few
bookcases and small tables, and a general
litter of books and work, made it evident
that this side officiated as the '^ drawing-room
" of the mansion.

Between these two ends of the room
here was no furniture at all save an
occasional strip of matting on the floor,
and one great long table running lengthways
to the halls on which lay a mixed
assemblage of guns, fishing-rods, dog-chains
and couples, and many other implements
of sport.

The only noticeable difference between
the two ends of the grand old hall, was a
deep recess and bay window which jutted
out of that one looked upon as a '^ ,"
the well cushioned seats of
which were most suggestive of repose and
comfort to the weary.

** Come and sit by the fire and get
warm," said Miss Kuthven, moving a big
armchair comfortably near to the blaze.

*' What a glorious view!" burst from
Alan Bering's lips, as, advancing to the
bay window, he found himself looking
down sheer and straight on to the sea
beneath, wreaths of spray mounting high
into the air with the concussion of each
great wave as it shattered and divided
against the face of the steep cliff. The
casement window was half open, and the
keen salt air blew into his face like the
very breath of the sea. The unutterable

wildness of the scene, lit up as it was by
the red rays of a fast dying sun, had a
strangely saddening effect upon him, and
he turned almost shudderingly from the
desolation without to the glowing embers
of the log fire within, close to which
Cecil Euthven had already ensconced
herself.

^^Is Lord Ercildoun out shooting?"
inquired Mr. Dering, becoming suddenly
mindful of the fact that he had a host
somewhere.

''No; but he is shut up in his study
right at the very top of the old tower
which you can just see from the far
corner of that bay window. "When he
isn't shooting, he always spends all his
days there, and sometimes his evenings,
too," added Cecil resignedly.

'' And what do you do then ? Are you
always alone ? ' '

Generally. But if it's very lonely of
an evening, I make old Janet come up
from downstairs and sit with me, and lie
tells me some of her stories. I'm so glad
you've come," added the girl frankly,
^^for now I shall have you to talk to
instead."

'til do my best, Miss Kuthven,"
responded Mr. Dering, as in duty bound ;
but truth to tell, most grievous misgivings
were coming into his mind regarding his
own chance of amusement in such a life
as the one just described.

^^Does your father read much then?
or write? or what?" inquired Alan
further, casting a curious glance up at
the ivy-covered old tower which he could
just catch a glimpse of from where he sat,
and where the weird old Lord was supposed
to be sitting up aloft, like an owl
in an ivy bush.

^' He's an astronomer," said Cecil ; '^ at
least that's what they call people who
study the stars, don't they ? "

^' Yes, I think so," answered Alan,
aloud ; and to himself he muttered,
*' truly, my prospects of a lively visit are
on the increase ! "

Curses on ye, Janet ! " broke in the
sound of an angry voice on the stairs
outside, and a heavy shuffling step was
heard approaching the door. ^* Have ye
no a tongue in your head, woman, that
ye might have told me of a stranger's
arrival ? Ye 're little like the rest of your
sex if ye haven'' t^ curse them all!" and
the voice died away in a growl as of
muttering thunder.

'that's my father," observed Miss
Kuthven ; and Alan was scarcely surprised
that he could detect little of filial affection
in her tone.

The door opened, and Mr. Dering
almost started at sight of the weird-looking
old man who now advanced
towards them.

Towering far above the ordinary height
of men, but with a bent head sunk almost
on to his breast, his white hair hanging
over the collar of a long black velvet
coat, and one hand shading the small,
suspicious dark eyes which peered rapidly
on every side of him as he walked. Lord
Ercildoun was perhaps as strange a specimen
of the human race as ever eye fell
on. Nor was the harsh rasping voice,
like the grating of a rusty saw, much
more genial than his whole appearance
when, giving Mr. Dering his hand, he
said:

*^ Welcome to Ercildoun, as any relative
of my friend John Dumaresque must ever
be."

In spite of the kindly sounding words,
the suspicions little dark eyes travelled
ceaselessly up and down Alan's face and
figure with an '^I-don't-trust-you-or- anybody"
look, highly aggravating to the
latter ; and it was with decided relief on
the whole that, before many minutes had
passed, he accepted his host's offer to be
shown his own room, with a view to
preparing for the approaching festivity
of dinner.

Chapter Iii.

LADY HELENE.

What wonder that I loved her thus, that night ?
The Immortals know each other at first sight,
And Love is of them.

I knew in a moment what our lives must he ^

Henceforth. It lighten'd on me then and there.
How she was irretrievably all mine,
I hers — thro' time, become eternity. ^
It could not have been otherwise,
Gazing into those eyes."

Eros.

The room in which Alan found himself
was nearly as large as the great hall just
"beneath it, and like the latter it too
looked straight down on to the sea,
further below than ever.

The floor and the plain white-washed

VOL. I. - 8

walls were both almost totally bare, save
where a strip of matting, or a square
of fine old tapestry, made an occasional
oasis in the desert of general desolation.
Another large open fireplace well filled
with burning peat, and piled up with bits
of log, lent some sort of cheerfulness to
the otherwise intensely dreary apartment ;
but the immense, funereal-looking bed,
with sombre, dark-green curtains all
round it, gave a most sinister aspect to
the darkest corner of the room.

"It's as well I am not of a nervous
disposition," observed Mr. Dering to
himself, on being left alone in this lugubrious
apartment ; but as he had been
informed by the "mummy" (alias Davie
Murray, and the sole surviving servitor
of the house of Ercildoun) that dinner
would be ready in ten minutes, there was
little time to think of anything save how

best to struggle into evening clothes
within the time appointed.

Alan Dealing was one of those men who
invariably dressed well and suitably on
every occasion in life, a fact upon which
in his secret heart he was apt extremely
to pride himself; but to-night he put
away decisively the spotless white tie
which as a rule would have completed
his toilet when encountering strangers,
and laughed aloud as he thought of the
^^ mummy's" probable bewilderment at
sight of an article of apparel which, so far
as old Davie's experience went, was confined
to the minister alone as yet.

When he once more descended into
the great hall, Alan found his host sitting
exactly where he had left him, and
evidently the matters of the toilet were
of small account to Lord Ercildoun.

Wandering to and fro at the farther

end of the hall, engaged in laying plates
and otherwise busying herself, was a
grey-haired old crone in a black gown,
with a high, white coif on her head, and
a white handkerchief crossed over her
breast. This was old Janet, once Miss
Euthven's nurse, and now general manager
and purveyor to the small establishment.
Close beside her father sat Cecil herself,
in the selfsame white dress which
she had worn on the occasion of Mrs.
Graham's fete but instead of Eucharis
lilies, a bunch of scarlet rowan-berries
was placed in her neatly braided hair.
The latter attempt at ornament was
viewed by old Janet with most evident
disfavour, for as she drew near to put
fresh logs upon the smouldering embers
of the fire, she muttered angrily, *^ The
lass is daft to mak' sae licht o' the fairies*
ain berries ! "

Apparently Miss Eutliven was quite
accustomed to the prejudices and superstitions
of her ancient handmaiden, for
she vouchsafed no comment, but only sat
staring into the fire with the far-away
look of old in her eyes, which made
Alan realise more vividly than ever
what a strange and perplexing community
he found himself condemned to
dwell amongst.

Had he only known it, perhaps the
most incongruous figure of those now*
assembled in old Ercildoun's great hall,
was that of Alan himself; for a stranger
contrast than his graceful, highbred face
and figure and thoroughly well-fitting
modern evening clothes, with the rough,
old-fashioned furniture and quaint old-world
figures surrounding him, could
scarce be imagined.

But though the menage was of the

simplest, and the staff of attendants
confined to old Davie and Janet alone,
Mr. Dering was fain to confess that
little fault could be found with either
the ^^ cock-a-leekie " soup, the sea-trout,
Scotch mutton, and grouse, which
formed the staple portion of his dinner,
backed up by the orthodox north country-delicacy
of cranberry tart. The wine,
too, was good enough, and the Scotch
whiskey, which he tasted at the earnest
solicitation of his host, was simply sans
reproche, perhaps even suspiciously excellent,
when the near vicinity of contraband
traders was considered.

Before half the evening had passed by,
Lord Ercildoun rose up unceremoniously,
and without even a word of apology beyond
a brief ^^ good night," took himself
off to his lonely tower once more, leaving
to Cecil the task of entertaining their
somewhat astounded guest.

That Miss Euthven felt the absence of
her father to be on the whole somewhat
of a relief, was proved by the brighter
gaiety of her manner and speech the
instant that the door was closed on that
worthy old autocrat; and with a case
full of cigarettes placed, by permission,
conveniently close to his arm-chair, Alan
felt there might be many less satisfactory
situations in the world than his own at
this particular instant. The wind was
rising fast outside, and the iron-framed
casements rattled drearily as it howled
through their chinks and crevices ; but
inside there was warmth and light in
plenty, and a girl's clear, low laugh,
making the old hall re-echo with the
glad sound.

*^ I must say this old fireplace is charmingly
comfortable," remarked Mr. Bering,
complacently, and giving one of the big
logs a kick with his foot as he spoke.

sending a shower of sparks flying up the
wide chimney.

'' I'm so glad you're comfortable,"
answered Cecil, anxiously, 'for I feared
it would be so miserable for you hereafter
such a splendid house as Mr.
Graham's. But there really is good
fishing, Mr. Bering — splendid sea-fishing
and shooting too ; so I hope you won't
be very dull."

"I'm sure I shan't. Miss Kuthven.
Why should you think so?" And indeed
Cecil looked so pretty and rare as
she sat leaning her chin on her hand
in the flickering firelight, that Mr. Dering
felt quite convinced in his own mind of
the truth of his asseveration.

"Well, that's all right, then," responded
his young hostess, cheerfully,
and quite unconscious of her visitor's
evidently fast-deepening admiration.

*^ Tell me the story which, is attached
to this place, Miss Euthven, will yon?
the ghost story, I mean," said Alan,
after a long panse, only filled np by the
dreary moaning of the wind through
each crack in the doors and windows of
the great hall.

Cecil laughed. ^*Are you a believer
in ghosts, Mr. Dering? I should have
thought you were too prosaic for that."

This accusation caused singular displeasure
to Mr. Dering, as at that
moment he was conscious of an unusual
feeling of dreamy excitement, and even to
be in a frame of mind bordering almost on
the sentimental. So it made him cross
a not unusual result when a companion's
spirit is not akin to one's own —
and he answered rather shortly —

^^ I'm not going to rehearse the articles
of my belief in a7iyt]iing, Miss Kuthven,

especially as I have doubts whether I
possess any."

*^ Not believe in any tiling ! " and Cecil's
eyes opened wide in calm surprise.
*' That's quite impossible, Mr. Dering,"
and some indignation crept into Miss
Eutliven's tone, as she decided in her
own mind that her visitor was trying to
make fun of her.

"What should I believe in?" asked
Allan, looking amused in spite of himself.

Your friends, for one thing," answered
Cecil, gravely.

'^ Yes, I have one or two friends worth
almost everything in the world, certainly,"
assented Mr. Bering, "It is not my
friends which I do not believe in, it is
friendship y

Cecil looked puzzled, and Alan continued
:

"Friendship of the nineteenth century

is a thing to be held in great contempt, to
my thinking. Men or women have only
to make themselves thoroughly notorious,
no matter how, for half the world to
have their name on its lips, and for their
acquaintance and their society to be
dearly treasured by fashion's followers
and fledgelings. No, friendship is too
great a name for a thing so slight ! ' '

'^ I agree with you, if that were friendship,"
was Miss Kuthven's quiet answer.

*^ You are too young yet to judge of what
is and what isn't," went on Alan, forgetting
for the moment that their ages were
the same, and that it was the difference
between thorough knowledge of the world
and total ignorance of it, which alone
made the gulf between them seem so
wide. *but, tell me, what is your idea
of friendship ? ' '

"I hardly know myself, but I think

the strongest point Avonld be that it
should never change''

And if your friends changed to you ?
If they were at the top of the wheel and
you at the bottom, and they wanted you
no longer? "

'' The wheel might turn," said Cecil
gravely ; and then added in a tone more
humble than Alan had ever heard her
speak in, ^^I know that one's friendship
would not be wanted perhaps were one's
friends what you call ^' at the top of the
wheel ; " but once the wheel has turned
it makes all even, for any one can give
sympathy or be sorry for others, even if
that is all they have to give."

Once more Mr. Bering felt a doubt
recurring to his mind, whether he were
altogether right in measuring his companion's
views of life by a much lower
standard than his own ; but before he

had quite satisfied himself on this question,
Cecil went on speaking, her hands
idly clasped across her knees, and her
eyes fixed on the embers of wood as they
blazed and blackened alternately with
every strong gust of wind that blew down
the wide, open chimney straight on to
their hot, red faces.

*^ I cannot understand why notoriety
should make one care more for a friend,
when even fame could not."

^^ Do you mean that if you cared, really
cared, for some one, you would not care
for them still more if they succeeded in
gaining fame and honour ? "

No, I should not. I should value it
for their sake, but for nothing else. But
I should care for them for their own sake,
and no height or depth to which they
might climb or fall would alter the fact
that I did so care."

The look of trust and resolution on the
speaker's face made it for the moment
absolutely beautiful, and Mr. Bering's
eyes unconsciously watched it so long,
that a hot blush rose at last to disturb its
paleness ; whilst Cecil, putting a hand
up to each cheek in merry defiance, said
laughingly —

*' Don't look at me as if you thought I
were a wild woman of the woods, and
wholly irreclaimable, Mr. Bering ! I
know th?.t all my ideas must seem strange
and old-fashioned to you, but remember,
I have time yet, and hope to know better
some day."

''I hope you won't," answered Alan,
more earnestly than the occasion appeared
to require. ^'But we've quite forgotten
the ghost story ; do tell it me, for I'm
quite as likely to believe in that as in
anything else, perhaps."

" Well, do you see that picture behind
you? You must turn right round else
you can't look at it well," and Cecil
put a few more logs on the fire as
she spoke, to make the illumination
greater.

Alan turned his chair and saw, hanging
on the wall near to him, a picture which,
till then, had escaped his attention.

A fair and somewhat childish woman's
face, with a curl on the sweet, sad mouth,
and a look of proud despair in the grey
eyes — the face of one who might have
sinned, but who assuredly must have
suffered. The heavy black velvet hood,
bordered with pearls, which, falling back
from her head, still entirely covered her
shoulders and arms, threw out in even
greater contrast the dazzlingly fair face ;
and the mournful expression of the latter
had a strange resemblance to Miss Kuth-

even's own, as Alan acknowledged to
himseK somewhat unwillingly.

The sad eyes were so haunting, too ;
they seemed to follow every movement
of his, and to turn as he turned, move ashe
moved, until he felt glad to look away
from them and listen to Cecil's clear
young voice as she told the legend of
Ercildoun.

'many years ago there lived a lord
of Ercildoun, who was a most strange,
morose, and eccentric old man." (''Not
unlike his successor, "thought her listener.)
'' Many months of each year he spent in
foreign countries, which, as you know,
was not a usual proceeding in those days,
when each journey took many weeks and
days to accomplish; and then he would
return suddenly, and when least expected
to Ercildoun Castle, and would shut himself
up there in solitary gloom without

any other living soul save the few retainers
who always dwelt within its
precincts.

'^ One day, just about the usual time
when Lord Ercildoun's yearly visit might
be expected, a messenger arrived bringing
somewhat strange tidings : the old lord
had wed a fair maiden in some *far
countries,' and rooms were to be got
forthwith in readiness for the bride and
bridegroom.

^'They arrived, and loud were the
whispers of astonishment at the extreme
youth of the golden-haired bride, whose
almost infantine face and form made in
truth a strange contrast to her grim
lord's saturnine visage and dark, grizzled
locks.

'helen — so he called her — seemed
happy enough, however, and long and
loud were the praises bestowed on the

VOL. I. 9

young Lady Ercildonn ; for wherever
her sweet face shone it left for sure a ray
of sunshine behind, and the sorest heart
or the deepest wound seemed to heal
irresistibly under her bright magic influence.


^' There was sorrow in Ercildoun when
the usual time for their lord's departure
drew near ; for would it not also rob them
of the only thing which lent life and
light to their sad existence ? But, after
many months of weary waiting, the day
of return came at last.

'^ Could this be the beautiful, bright-hearted
child Helene, Lady Ercildoun —
this weary, stricken girl, whose mournful
eyes seemed twice too large for her
pale and shrunken face ? whose mouth
trembled and quivered piteously with
each word she spoke, who cowered and
shivered at every sound ?

^' Truly it was she; but what had
caused the change none ever knew, for
the grim old lord had grown more taciturn
than ever, and the girl herself seldom or
never spoke. For hours each day would
she remain in the little chapel of the
castle, built on the furthest rock of all
hanging over the sea, with her hands
clasped on the window-sill, looking out
across the ocean, and with eyes ever
fixed on the far-distant horizon, watching
patiently, watching sadly, — never
ceasing.

^^ Humours there were of a strange ship
being seen off Ercildoun Head, which
dared to sail so near in to that dreaded
headland as to cause the simple fisher-folk
to believe it to be a phantom vessel,
and that its crew must bear charmed
lives. The bright lamp burning night
and day in the chapel window cast its

steady light out to sea, and was replenished
with anxious care whensoever
the oil sank low by the devotional hand
of the Lady of Ercildoun.

^^For several months the phantom ship
had come and gone, and the time again
drew near for Ercildoun to temporarily
lose its lord ; when a strange messenger
came to the castle one day and craved
speech of him.

^'What passed between them history
says not, but the messenger departed
with a sardonic smile of triumph on his
black, evil-looking face, and the old lord
grew grimmer than before.

^^ At midnight as the young Lady Ercil-
down stood trimming the oil lamp m the
chapel window with careful hand, she
started in affright to hear a loud heavy
step echoing on the stone flags of the
aisle, and turning, she saw her husband
standing before her.

Not one word did lie speak, but in an
instant the lamp was extinguished, and
intense darkness reigned throughout the
chapel, save where a ray of moonlight
lit up the towering dark figure of the
husband, the shrinking form of the wife.

'''Now we will wait and watch together
! ' laughed he, in harsh merriment.
' And we will see what the night
brings forth.'

'' Not one word answered the terrified
girl; but she buried her face in her
hands, and only a heart-broken moan
escaped her white lips.

' The time has come,' said Lord
Ercildoun at length ; ' rise up, Madame,
to see the last of the gay young lover
who wooed so well.'

'' More dead than alive, he dragged the
miserable girl to the window, and in the
false, hazy light, a ship could be seen

close in to the land, and dangerously
near to the cruel, terrible rocks. No
saving light was there to warn them of
the danger, no hope should they approach
even half a cable's length nearer to the
treacherous Ercildoun Head !

*^A few minutes dead silence, broken
only by the steady surging of the wild
waste of waters on the rocks below, and
a woman's quick hurried breathing, then
the suspense is ended. One terrible
crash, a cry of many voices in despair,
re-echoed by one from a broken heart
above — and all is still.

^^When morning dawned, a sad and
sorrowful sight was seen on Ercildoun's
rocky shore. A few shattered timbers
lay there, telling of the wreck of some
goodly ship, and bound to a mast lay the
body of a fair-haired, Saxon youth, with
a lock of long golden hair clasped tightly
to his breast.

^^ They carried him into the castle hall
and old Lord Ercildoun laughed grimmer
than ever, as he noted the colour of that
love-lock held so close to the dead man's
heart ; hut never a word issued from the
pale lips of his young wife. For hours
she sat there, still, as one who is stunned
by a mighty stroke, then towards night
she staggered back to the chapel window
above the sea, crying and moaning and
wringing her hands, for him who would
return no more.

'^ All through the livelong night, resounded
her sorrowful wailing, but with
morning light it suddenly ceased. Moved
by curiosity, they entered the chapel with
failing hearts and trembling feet, only
to find the morning sun shining down on
the altar, and on the still, dead face of
one w4io lay before its cross — Helene,
Lady Ercildoun."

Chapter VIII.

Miserere DOMINE.

White steeds of ocean, that leap with a hollow and wearisome
roar

On the bar of ironstone steep, and not a fathom's length
from the shore,

Is there never a seer nor sophist can interpret your wild
refrain ?

You come, and your crests are hoary with the foam of your

countless years ;
You break, with a rainbow of glory, through the stray of

your glittering tears.
Is your song a song of gladness ? a paean of joyous might ?
Or a wail of discordant sadness for the wrongs you can never

right ?
For the empty seat by the ingle? for children reft of their

sire ?
For the bride, sitting sad, and single, and pale, by the

flickering fire ?
For your ravenous pools of suction ? for your shattering

billow swell ?
For your ceaseless work of destruction ? for your hunger

insatiable ?

Not far from this very place, on the sand and the shingle

He lay, with his battered face upturned to the frowning sky.

When your waters wash'd and swill'd high over his drowning
head,

When his nostrils and lungs were filled, when his feet and
hands were as lead.

When against the rock he was hurl'd, and sucked again to
the sea,

On the shores of another world, on the brink of eternity,

On the verge of annihilation, did it come to that swimmer
strong,

The sudden interpretation of your mystical weird-like song."

The Song of the Surf.

A LOUD heavy noise awoke Mr. Dering
after lie had been asleep a very short
time, and as he sat up in bed and listened,
vainly did he try to remember where he
was and what was happening.

Vague remembrances of the legend of
Ercildoun floated through his mind, and
they seemed of a surety coming to life asa
distant, but plainly audible, cry of
despair rang out above the furious blasts
of wind which were still raging round the
old castle walls.

^^ What the devil's up?" muttered he
to himself sleepily.

The answer came in a repetition of the
heavy dull sound he had heard before,
and there was no mistaking it now, it
was the sound of a minute gun at sea.

To spring out of hed and rush to , the
window was the work of a moment only,
hut nothing could be seen in the great
darkness save a blinding spray of foam
and surf, and the black outline of the
ruin crested headland.

Sounds of much hurrying to and fro,
and the loud harsh voice of Lord Ercil-
down giving his orders and commands,
told Alan that the household was on the
alert, and hastily dressing himself, he
descended as quickly as possible.

Not a soul was there, and the great
oak door which led into the courtyard
was wide open, and creaking in loud

protestation as the wild wind swayed it
to and fro at will. Judging rightly that
his companions had already made their
way to the rocks below, Mr. Dering
followed them there.

In a very few strides he had reached
the scene of action, guided thereto by
the faint light burning in the window of
a rough hut, built for shelter to the living
and the dead. He shuddered when, in
passing by, he glanced in and noted the
withered form of old Janet moving to and
fro, stirring the blaze, and laying out a
table v/ith blankets — for luliat f

Silent and awe-struck, Alan Dering
joined the small group now standing on
the outermost ledge of rock which wa
safe from the waves' powerful reach.

The inky blackness of the night, the •
blinding spray which every instant dashed
over all, the loud, continuous roar of

both wind and waves, broken every now
and then by the sullen despairing voice
of the minute gun, seemed almost to
stun him and render him powerless to
move. But as his eyes got more accustomed
to the faint light from the fire
within the hut, he saw Lord Ercildoun
standing with the end of a rope in his
hand, and close beside him was his *
-daughter, shading her eyes with her hand,
and peering out anxiously into the darkness.


A cry louder than before rings out.
*' Good God ! how near they are!" bursts
from Cecil's lips.

'ewe canna do owt," observes old
Davie, sotto voce.

'try once more; quick!" thunders
out Lord Ercildoun's voice ; and in an
instant the loud wdiizz of a rocket makes
Alan involuntarily start back.

High into the air Hke a narrow arch of
fire, it flies on its mission of mercy, and
reveals for one instant the last act of the
impending tragedy, then falls hissing into
the waves, leaving the black night even
darker than before. In that momentary
glimpse a woful sight is seen. A large
dismasted schooner, her deck crowded
with loudly wailing and madly despairing
forms, is drifting slowly and steadily onto
where masses of white foam, thrown
high into the air, reveal the presence of
the jagged rocks which are waiting even
now for their prey.

There is a loud, terrible crash, like the
falling to earth of some mighty tree ; — one
wild, heart-broken cry resounds, and then
a still more terrible silence reigns overall.


^^ Another rocket!" commands Lord
Ercildoun, a tremble of horror and excitement

even in his harsh voice ; and once
more the fiery messenger goes on its way.

Close to them now is the wrecked ship,
with one end looming high out of the
water like some gigantic rearing quadruped,
the other concealed hy the huge
rollers which each instant are dashing
over it, and over the sharp, sunken rock
which has gored its way into the side of
the doomed ship. But no living soul is
to be seen on the broken, splintered deck;
and though a mass of floating timbers
darkens the foam around, nothing human
is visible amongst them.

For many minutes the terrible watch
goes on, and Alan Bering marvels vaguely
at the awful dreariness of the scene ; the
two old men, with hands shading their
eyes, peering anxiously into the wild
surging mass of water before them, and
the slight girl at their side, leaning forward

with pale, set face, to lend the
assistance of her young eyes to their aged
ones.

At last there is a rent in the clouds, as
far away in the east arises the faint light
of dawn ; and the first sight which greets
the new-born day is the face of a drowned
man, as his body drifts slowly backwards
and forwards on the swell of each great
angry sullen wave.

^^ Tie an end of the rope to me, there
night be life in him ! " says Alan, hurriedly
; and almost before they have time
to grasp his meaning his coat is off and
he has plunged into the foam.

'shave a care! ye'll no live an ye
touch the rocks," roared old Davie, in
terrified warning ; and Cecil's brave heart
seemed to fail her then as she watched
the hard and desperate struggle between
the swimmer and the sea.

Twice lie is beaten back, and rolled
over and over, by the headlong violence
of the waves ; but young, strong, and a
practised swimmer, he at last reaches the
drowned man's side. As he nears him,
battling for each inch of space which still
lies between, he can see that it is the
body of a sailor, and for an instant he
almost believes that there is life and hope
there yet, for as the body rises and falls
with the swell of the tide, the long arms
sway backwards and forwards with an
almost lifelike movement, as if beckoning
a welcome to the rescuer. But as Alan
grasps the sailor's body with one arm,
the lifeless hand accidentally touches his
own, and the awful deadly cold of that
touch convinces him shudderingly that
his errand has been a fruitless one. But
tied tightly with a scarf to the dead man's
shoulders is a very young child, its little

waxen-white face bearing still the impress
of terror stamped upon it by that night
of horrors to which it had woke up suddenly
from its peaceful sleep.

The double weight tells heavily on
Alan Dering, and he can now see a deep
red scar across the drowned man's forehead,
which precludes almost the possibility
of any hope for his existence ; but
still he will not give up the struggle yet,
not whilst life and breath are left to him.
Twice are they torn asunder, the living
and the dead, by the wild fmy of the
waves, but the same tide sweeps them
both in towards land, and Alan regains
his grasp immediately. It is nearly over
now, and he can plainly hear the hoarse
tones of old Davie Murray (the ^' mummy"
had apparently found a voice when wanted)
exhorting him to hold on, and giving
incoherent instructions, which Alan is

VOL. I. 10

too bewildered and blinded with foam and
spray either to hear or heed ; and then all
at once he feels himself sinking, feels his
breath labouring agonized for an instant,
then a dull sound of rushing water in his
ears ; and it is nearly two dead men, not
one alone, which Lord Ercildoun and his
trusty henchman pull with help of the
rope on to shore at last.

When Alan Dering once more recovered
consciousness, the early morning
light shone through the pale and shadowy
mist wreaths which hung over land and
sea ; lighting up the rocky shore, and the
sold grey castle towering above, — the
weather-beaten faces of two living menthe
calm still face of one dead.

In a short time he felt able to walk,
and at Lord Ercildoun's suggestion,
staggered on to his feet with the intention
of returning to the castle and to

bed; more especially as it was not in
the power of mortal man to do more
for the crew of the ill-fated schooner
which had only too steely earned the
terrible epitaph, ^^ All hands lost."

As he passed the rough hut, he glanced
in, and on the table, so carefully prepared
by Janet, lay the body of the little
drowned child, and by its side knelt Cecil
Kuthven. Her face was buried in her
hands, and her whole form shook convulsively
as she struggled to restrain the
bitter tears which were falling fast. No
sound broke the stillness save the dull
monotonous drip, drip, of the water, as
slowly it oozed its way from off the table
and trickled on to the floor.

Was this the sort of experience ^^ likely
to harden a woman's heart," as he himself
had once said? And Alan Dering
went on his way with a grave, downcast
face.

Chapter IX.

WHAT IS FATE ?

0, what was once to me

Mere matter of the fancy, now has grown
The vast necessity of heart and life."

Vivian,

*' And this is an old fairy-tale of the heart.

It is told in all lands, in a different tongue ;

Told with tears by the old, heard with smiles by the young.

And the tale to each heart unto which it is known

Has a different sense."

Lucile.

The sun had run half its course ere, late
in the day, Mr. Dering descended into
the great hall of Ercildoun, with a sound
body and mind, but a somewhat shaky
gait, having scarcely even yet recovered
from the desperate struggle of the previous
hours.

He found Cecil busily engaged in copying
out some almost illegible notes,
written on a scrap of paper in her father's
cramped and crooked handwriting ; but
her pen was hastily thrown aside, and a
frank, warm welcome given to the newcomer.


^^You look a bit shaken yet, Mr.
Dering," she said, anxiously.

** Oh, I'm all right," returned Alan,
with British untruth, and trying to hide
how excessively glad he was to sink into
the arm chair, which she had hastily
pushed into the sunny bay-window for
him.

But Miss Enliven was a quick observer,
and with infinite tact pretended
to be deeply occupied in putting away
her paper and writing things, until her
visitor should have time to recover from
the evident exertion which the descent

of a long, steep staircase had been to
him. Still, to stay upstairs in his own
room he had felt to be utterly impossible,
for every hour, and each minute of the
hour, was there growing upon him more
and more the power of a strange new
fascination.

It was the faint evidence of greater
strength in Cecil Kuthven's character
than in his own, which so attracted his
somewhat dreamy, indolent nature ; for
like all men who are at bottom thoroughly
resolute and determined, he was easily
led in trifles by any stronger character
than his own, if only the reins were in
well-loved hands. There lay the secret
of Alan Bering's character : drive him,
no one on earth could, but to lead him
was easy enough, for he liked letting
himself be led.

They had discussed the terrible events

of the night before, sadly and seriously;,
and as Cecil's voice trembled in speaking
of bis unsuccessful attempt at rescuing
those whom no mortal hand might rescue,.
Alan felt in his heart that he had at least
earned her respect, if he might never lay
claim to anything more. ^

But, '^ could he be satisfied with that
much alone ? " was the question which in
all surprise he now asked himself; for
only so short a time ago, few things had
seemed more unlikely than that he, Alan
Dering, should fall in love with Lord
Ercildoun's daughter, like the veriest
schoolboy shut up for the first time in a
country house with some pretty face.

Vainly he tried to turn his eyes from
that fair frank face opposite to him, and
to devote his attention to the sea, as the
tide rolled in far down below in great
green, white-crested waves. The peace

after the storm had come, now too late,
and the sun shone down on a smiling sea
all glowing with lights and shades, as if
the last night's tragedy were surely buta
sleeper's half-waking dream. Yet even
as he gazed, a dark mass of timber drifted
on to the rocks and was shattered into a
thousand fragments against their iron
face, the last remnant of the ill-fated
schooner.

^' Didn't you say you had some sketches
to shew me ? " asked Cecil after a
while.

Only a few very rough attempts at
it," answered Alan.

*' Then may I see if I can find them ? "
replied the girl eagerly, and before Mr.
Dering had time to apologise for his
inability to go and fetch them for her,
he heard her light step in the room overhead,
and in another moment she reentered

the hall, holding out triumphantly
his little portfolio of sketches.

They were, as he said, rough, but with
a true touch of art about them ; and yet
one could plainly note that the artist was
far stronger in perceptive power than in
executive, for though the wild dreaminess
of each sketch was strangely fascinating,
the effect was often marred by false
strokes or impossible lights and shades.

One by one they turned them over;
here a sketch of some Highland loch, set
like a gem in its frame of crimson-brown
heather, and with no living thing save
one lonely heron to disturb its utter
stillness ; there, a sunny vineyard in
Italy, where the dark-eyed children of the
South are playing with the clusters of
purple grapes; then again, some scene
taken where the Mediterranean's blue
waves glide curling into a shore overhung

with gardens full of myrtle and orange
trees, like a child's dream of some far-off
fairy land.

'soh, this is the best of all, Mr.
Bering!" exclaimed Cecil at length,
holding out a sketch on which her eyes
were riveted with a sort of unconscious
fascination.

In truth, it was a strange enough
scene. A clear sky, without one single
cloud to break its monotonous expanse,
a scorching, tropical sun, shining down
on undulating hills covered with long
grass of an uniform dreary brown, and a
fierce grass fire spreading sullenly over
one hillside, leaving a wide black track
of devastation to mark its course. Close
to this, but as yet untouched by the fire,
lay the bodies of two dead bullocks ; butin
the whole picture there was not one
bit of life visible, nor any living thing

save a large vulture almost motionless
in the air, hovering like some bird of ill-omen
over the fire's black and deadly
track. Underneath the sketch was
written one word of ominous import,
*^ Desolation."

*' What an odd picture for you to take
a fancy to ! " laughed Alan Dering. ^' I
can't say that it was a very cheery scene,
the day I saw it. But you, do you not
also draw. Miss Euthven? "

'eyes, as much as I can. But since
Father Dunois died, there has been no
one to give me even the few useful hints
which he always gave, and so I have
struggled on alone, but I don't get on as
well as I could wish."

I've shown you my sketches, withall
their faults and failings. Miss Euthven;
won't you let me see yours now? "

*^ Oh yes, gladly Perhaps you will be

able to help me, if yon do not mind the
trouble ; " and Miss Knthven rose at
once to fetch a bundle of drawings which
were hidden in the very farthest corner
of the room.

Alan Dering positively started with
astonishment, as one by one they were
laid carelessly before his wondering gaze.
Not that they were anything save the
roughest of oil-paintings, the most unfinished
of works, but there was originality
and a rare power in each study, and he
was true enough artist to recognise this
fact. The sketches were all either
heads'' or figures; most being evidently
the embodied ideals of Miss
Euthven's favourite heroines; for the
sweet bright face of rosalind" shared
the same canvas with the weird, unearthly
sadness of '' Undine's," and the
loving, passionate eyes of *' Juliet " looked

askance at the wild dusky face of ^^ Falling
Water," the pride of a Comanche chiefs
wigwam. But each sketch carried a
strange, subtle power with it, rough
though they all might be as a whole — the
power of reality ; and no one reading the
marvellous, living embodiment which
those simple lines and careless touches
gave of each ideal, could fail to recognize
a master hand therein.

'' But they are perfect, quite perfect ! "
exclaimed Mr. Dering, wonderingly.
'^ They seem to live, they seem to
breathe ; I don't know how it is, but I
never saw anything like these sketches
of yours before. Miss Kuthven ? "

*^ I dare say not," laughed his auditor.

*' No, I am quite serious. Of course
I don't mean to say that they are finished
works of art, that would be nonsense ;
but they have a power and a reality about

them wliicli fascinates me beyond everything.
You might be a great artist, Miss
Enliven, if only you would study hard."

'' Would ? It is ^ could,' you ought to
say. I'd work night and day if it were
possible ; I'd give up every pleasure on
earth for the sake of studying painting,
if only I might ensure success at
last!"

The last words were spoken in a dreamy
undertone, but the light which had
dawned in the eyes of the speaker revealed
how deep down in her heart lay a
wealth of dormant ambition.

x\lan Dering was watching her face
narrowly and observed, " I should not
have thought you would have cared for
study or really hard work, having always
been accustomed to a solitary, dreamy,
idle life — more like some idyll in a poem."

'^ Perhaps that is the very reason why

I long SO much to be 'up and doing'"
said Cecil eagerly.

*' Believe me, standing still is much
pleasant work than running," remarked
Alan Dering in a tone of nonchalant and
heartfelt idleness.

*' Believe me, that standing still '^ is
only a prettier and more poetic version
of the verb *to retrograde'" was the
quick and grave response.

Mr. Dering remained silent, and
wondered in his heart how it came fo
pass that his companion's views of life
were so much sterner than his own.

Was it that, having been cut off from
all human sympathy, nature alone had
formed her? For the rivers and mountains
of that lone Border Land seemed in
some strange way to have imbued her
spirit with their own clearness and
strength. Trusting and fearless as a

savage who knows no clanger, having
a wild code of her own of honour and
justice, which might drive her to do
grand, unselfish deeds, such as wreck so
many lives and save so few, the words
which could best describe such a character
as Cecil Euthven's now, were
surely, *^ sans peur, et sans reproche."

A slow shuffling step was heard ascending
the stairs ere long, and old Janet
entered laden with an apron full of fir
logs for the fire, and curtsying gravely,
asked after Mr. Bering's health.

^' Oh, I'm all right, thank you, Janet,"
said Alan. ^^ Only your North sea is a
little rough in its play at times ! "

^'It was no plain' the night," answered
Janet, looking round her superstitiously
lest there were other ears hearkening than
she wot of. ^^I tell auld Davie three
hours afore, that there was aye mischief

brewing', but whether by land or by sea,
wha could tell ? "

*' How could you know there was
mischief brewing, Janet ? " asked Cecil
impatiently, to whom the woeful prophesies
of her ancient handmaiden were
no novelty.

^^ Didn't I see the rowan-berries in yer
ain locks?" retorted the old woman,
almost fiercely. 'san' I tried to tell
ye, an' ye wadna heed ! But they — ^ the
familiar spirits wha peep and mutter,'
as the book says — they hard, and they
heeded'' she added, significantly. *ewe
canna hold our ain when the spirits o'
the Lord are again' us;" and the old
crone left the room at last, semi-praying,
semi-cursing, and wholly grumbling.

** Janet seems perturbed," laughed
Alan, as the door closed behind her.

'* Yes. I'm afraid it is more my un-vol.

I. 11

believing spirit than her credulous one
which has put her out. I don't believe
in such things, and can't pretend that I
do — do you? "

^'I scarcely know what I do and what
I do not believe in."

^•But you can't possibly think that
there are such things as * spirits""
exclaimed Cecil, with profound astonishment.


**No, I don't mean spirits, perhaps
so much as what I call *luck,' and sentimental
people would call ^ Fate.' "

*'I scarcely know what that means, I
think. My ideas of ^ spirits ' are taken
from Janet's familiars, who appear to no
one but her own self, and seem always
to do harm — never good. I can't believe
in those."

'look at the reproachful eyes of your
ancestress, on the wall up there, watching

you as you speak. Isn't she, too,
supposed to leave her well-earned rest
in the grave, and wander about the
chapel at night, bewailing the past ? "

Cecil turned and confronted the picture,
its sad eyes meeting her own with
an almost living look of reproach. She
said, gravely —

'^ Now that you say it, I see the lookin
her eyes which you mean; an odd,
reproachful pleading. No, Lady Helene,
I cannot believe the fishermen's stories
of either your appearance in the chapel
window at midnight, or the phantom
ship sailing below ! Unless," and Cecil
laughed merrily, 'the phantom ship contains
smuggled goods, and the light is
one not placed by ghostly hands."

"Yes, I dare say it is something of
that sort which has gained Ercildoun its
reputation," said Alan, carelessly.

*' But what is tout ghost, Mr. Dering ?
What is it that people call Fate ? "

'^ It is a power we cannot fight against,
I know that ! It means that, perhaps,
two people who are strangers to each
other and never likely to cross each
other's paths, will, if fated to do so,
not only meet, but probably love or hate
each other as Fate has willed it. It
means that every strong will may be
bent, every strong resolution be broken,
before its fatal power ; that aU our
striving from the cradle to the grave
may avail us nothing, and that across
the failure of our highest hopes and the
ruin of our bravest hearts is ofttimes
written the one word, 'Kismet'"

Cecil looked very grave now, as once
more she glanced up at the picture hanging
above her, and, nodding her head toit,
said slowly —

*'Yoii need not look so reproachful,
Lady Helene, if this be true, for your
revenge will surely come."

^^ What are you speaking about ? "

*^ There is a saying, *who weds a
Kuthven tempts Fate,' and I never
understood what it meant before. But
if it is as you say, and there ^5 such a
thing as Fate, well it's a bad look-out
for my future husband, isn't i± ? "

Had the unconscious speaker glanced
for one instant at Mr. Bering's face, she
could scarce have misconstrued the expression
legible thereon. How gladly
would he chance any fate on earth, so
that were the reward ! And yet, so great
was the control which this girl's calm
frankness of manner had over his perturbed
spirit, that he, who ere this
moment had scarcely known what it was
to either welcome or dread a woman's

answer, had no power left to speak one
word of all the passionate longing and
devotion which shook his very heart and
soul, as surely it had, ere this, never before
been shaken.

Chapter X.

TIME Teeth Teeth.

Not in Hades alone
Doth Sisyphus roll, ever frustrate, the stone.
Do the Dandies ply, ever vainly, the sieve.
Tasks as futile does earth to its denizens give.
Yet there's none so unhappy, but what he hath been
Just about to be happy, at some time, I ween ; •

And none so beguiled and defrauded by chance.
But what, once in his life, some minute circumstance
Would have fully sufficed to secure him the bliss.
Which, missing it then, he for ever must miss."

Lucile,

Bright dawned the morning of Alan
Bering's last day at Ercildoun; and ashe
stood in the courtyard after breakfast,
waiting for his host, he could not but
deem shooting, or any other sport likely
to lead his reluctant steps far from that

domain, a most unmitigated nuisance,
even a decided bore.

True, an arrangement lead been made
that Cecil should bring out their luncheon
to the two shooters, but, having overheard
a brief consultation between that
young lady and old Janet, he was fain to
confess that this plan originated more in
the scarcity of idle hands at Ercildoun
than in any very earnest desire on Miss
Kuthven's part to join their society.

It was always the same, thought Mr.
Dering, discontentedly ; no one could be
kinder or more hospitable than was his
young hostess, often even sweet and lovable
to him, like the warm-hearted friend
she was, — but nothing more. No single
memory of any tenderer feeling, whether
true or false, could he call up to soothe
his anxious mind, for there was no denying
it now, that Alan Bering's hour had
come at last.

Lord Ercildoun's harsh, voice broke in
abruptly upon his meditations.

^^ I canna shoot with ye to-day, Mr.
Dering, for the post has brought me
many hours' work," said the old man
with his usual scant courtesy and with
not one word of apology or regret.

Before Mr. Dering had time to express
his outward sorrow, or to realize his inward
joy, at this turn of events, his host
continued :

^^ But ye can shoot all the same, la,
for eben' there will work for either
stranger or friend so long as they carry
a gun."

eben," a gaunt, ill-kept black setter,
was tugging at his chain behind them
with frantic yelps, as if in confirmation of
his master's words ; and from sheer lack
of pluck to say **No," Mr. Dering found
himself marching down the road away

from the castle, accompanied by his host,
and cursing his host's dog inwardly with
much vigour.

Had that confounded brute been of a
less affable disposition, the chances were
that he would have been left in peace
within those castle walls; and a grim
desire to let off one barrel of his breech-loader
at this now boisterously capering
delinquent, crossed his mind frequently
during the next eye minutes.

^^ I'll miss ye, lad, when ye're gone,"
observed Lord Ercildoun, with a kinder
glance than usual at the young, upright
figure pacing beside him.

Alan's heart beat quickly; this was
not the rose, but it was next thing to
the rose, and a rash thought entered his
brain ; why not sue for the daughter first
at her father's hands, as in the good old
times of long ago ?

There was a long pause, broken twice
by Mr. Bering's efforts to make a suitable
start on this hazardous topic ; but the
keen glance which he each time encountered
from his incipient father-in-law
quite drove his happiest speeches from
out his head.

At last, when Lord Ercildoun came to
a halt with the intention of returning on
his steps once more, the situation became
desperate, and Mr. Dering spoke out like



a man.

In a few short sentences he expressed
his desire to marry Lord Ercildoun's
daughter, giving quiet and reasonable
surety for her happiness in the future,
and of the sufficient means which were
his to secure her every ordinary luxury ;
and there was something so thoroughly
frank and loyal in the brave young lover's
speech, that the harsh, angry look which

at its commencement had crept over
Lord Ercildoun's face, disappeared, and
gave place to a much kinder one, as his
lordship's little dark eyes were riveted
on those of the speaker.

^^ Ye don't know maybe, Mr. Dermg*,
that my daughter will inherit Ercildoun
when I am dead? " and a ray of the old
suspicion returned to the small, sharp
eyes.

But there was no mistaking the lookin
the honest hazel-grey ones, which met
his own so quietly and fairly, as Alan
said —

'^ No ; I had not thought of that."

^' And it's just best ye should have the
real answer at once, my lad," continued
the old man hurriedly, but in a kinder
tone. '^ Ye see, though my daughter
will have Ercildoun, the money will go to
lier cousin. Sir Francis Kuthven, and so

we trotted her to him, and they will
marry when he comes back from foreign
parts, where he has lived these four years
back for health's sake."

Like one in a dream, his listener stared
at him.

^^ Engaged to be married already''
and Alan's stern set face involuntarily
told a tale of how bitterly the blow had
gone home.

'aye, is she," was the laconic
response. *

After a moment's silence Mr. Dering
began to recover his scattered faculties
a little, and the utter improbability of
Cecil's having ever as yet met any one
worthy or likely to win her heart struck
him forcibly.

'' Does Miss Euthven know her
cousin?" he eagerly enquired.

''No just. His father, mad Sir Philip

as we called him, and myself, we agreed
to make the match, and the children
consented."

'^ Then you will marry your daughter
to a man she knows nothing of ? " exclaimed
Alan in hot indignation.

*just so," acquiesced the imperturbable
old lord.

"But if she should care for me, Lord
Ercildoun, may I have no chance ? " was
the proud, anxious rejoinder.

Not one. Were Cecil to love ye as
sir as woman could, she would never wed
ye, nor break her plighted word. My
daughter is a Euthven, and will aye be
true to her troth."

There was a stern grandeur in the old
man's evil-looking face, as his pride of
race spoke out.

None could appreciate the feeling
better then Alan Dering himseK, and for

an instant he kept silence, wrestling with
his own bitterly hopeless thoughts, then
he spoke —

*lord Ercildoun, I give you warning
frankly, that if I stay here another
twenty-four hours, I shall do my living
best to make your daughter break off her
engagement. It's inhuman, it's wicked,
that such a thing should be ! How can
she know her own mind about a man
whom she has not even seen ? "

^^ Your pardon, Mr. Dering. Sir Francis
Kuthven came here four years sin' as a
blithe lad o' eighteen, and stayed a day
with us; and I mind weel that my
daughter and he seemed well affectioned
one to the other."

Alan gnashed his teeth inwardly, and
felt in his heart how dearly he would
like to see the figure of this " bathe lad
o' eighteen " go bumping down the side

of the rocky precipice on wliicli they
stood. But a remembrance of Cecil's
calm and always friendly manner disarmed
his thoughts of their bitterness,
and turning to the old man he said —

^^ Well, I shall try my luck. Lord
Ercildoun, for it can be no question of
honour in such a case as this. If you
do not care enough for your child to save
her from a loveless marriage, I care
enough to face anything in the whole
wide world that she may be free. It
shall be one trial only, and a fair one
to both ; if I win, your daughter shall be
my wife as surely as 'this pebble will
reach the sea " (a splash far down below,
echoed the speaker's hot words) ; ^^ if he
wins, then I shall quietly bow before
Fate, and go my way, and will try to
forget the mad folly of the dream I have
dreamed to-day ! "

The young man's stern defiance seemed
to please the grim old peer far more
than any humbler tone would have
done, and he laughed the low harsh
cackle peculiar to him, as, laying his
withered old hand on Alan's shoulder, he
said —

*' Ye're a braw lad, there's no denying,
and had my word not been given, I'd as
lief see yersel lord and master here, as I
would that pair delicate lad Francis
Euthven. Were ye John Dumaresque's
son, and not his sister's son only, I'd
have liked ye better, though I cinna ken
if even he has one."

*^ Oh, yes ! he has a son, Geoffry,"
answered Alan, absently, 'who has just
joined my regiment."

'' And his grand auld place, I canna
remember its name ? "

'' Beechwarden."

VOL. I. 12

^^ Aye, Beechwarden. An' will that goto
John Dumaresque's son ? "

^^ I suppose so. He has only one
daughter, besides, — my cousin Isabel,"
answered Mr. Dering, impatiently, family
statistics being scarcely to his taste at
that moment.

^* Weel, weel ; " and the old man woke
up out of the dream he was weaving of
possible consolation for Alan in the future,
and turned now to wend his way home.

The dog capered on to Alan's legs
affectionately as he saw the latter take
up his gun once more, and, sad to say,
was rewarded for this attention with
something rather like a curse and decidedly
Hke a kick.

I shall have a fair try, Lord Ercil-
down!" called back Alan, half cheerily,
half defiantly.

^ Ye may. My daughter is a Euthven, ' '

was the sole response, as Lord Ercildoun
set his face homeward towards the grey
and ruined tower where were spent the
happiest hours of his grey and ruined
life.

Chapter XL

A woman's nay.

With all other men
First love, though it perish from life, only goes
Like the primrose that falls to make way for the rose.
For a man, at least most men, may love on through life :
Love in fame ; love in knowledge ; in work : earth is rife
AVith labour, and therefore with love for a man.
If one love fails, another succeeds, and the plan
Of man's life includes love in all objects ! But I ?
All such loves from my life through its whole destiny
Fate excluded. The love that I gave you, alas !
Was the sole love that life gave to me.

*****

By the laws
Of a fate I can neither control nor dispute,
I am what I am ! "

Lucile.

It was scarcely one o'clock yet, [but
Alan Daring had been for more than an
hour at the try sting-place appointed for

luncheon that day. By kick rather than
good management he had contrived to
kill two brace of birds, and decided that
these would be quite as much as he could
carry comfortably; so, to the immense
disgust of the black setter, "Ben," a
wiry, hard-working dog, who liked to run
all day, — he wended his steps to the said
trysting-place, and there sat down, trying
to put in order his scattered thoughts
before they should be called upon to face
the ordeal likely to be in store for them
later on.

The question which chiefly perplexed
him was, had he any chance ?

Not for an instant even did any thought
of the '^puir delicate lad" in foreign
parts disturb his conscience, for what
could a boy of eighteen, who had seen his
promised wife but once, care for her in
comparison to himself, who had lived

with her in daily and sweet companionship
for nigh two weeks. No ! let the
*^ blithe lad" retain his blitheness, but
not by such means as these. And his
dark rival looked most vindictively determined,
as he sat there pulling off the
poor crimson heads of each heathery
spray beside him, and girding at the fate
which had overtaken him at last, when
least expected.

Vaguely his thoughts reverted to the
past and to

The loves and hours of the life of a man —

Hours that rejoice and regret for a span.
Born of a man's breath, mortal as he ;
Loves that are lost ere they come to birth,
Weeds of the wave, without fruit upon earth."

But their memory brings little save half
regret and yet half cynical satisfaction at
the very little he had, ever loved in those
days gone by. No sentimental leave-taking,
no pleading letters long unanswered,

no wild reproaches to the
lover ^^who loves and who rides away,"
have power now to stir his soul one whit ;
and whatever may have been Mastering
sins in the past, they are most surely well
avenged in this the present, as each
moment he raises himself on his elbow
to scan the horizon with the eager
anxious glance of one who awaits another's
coming with dire longing.

But the noonday sun is high in the
heavens, and its warm rays rest lovingly
on the dismembered and bleeding heads
of Alan's heathery victims, and all is so
still that even a hawk hovering high in
the air above, has almost made up its
mind to dare a pounce on the merry little
yellow-hammer that sits pluming itself in
the sun, ere a flutter of petticoats is seen
in the far distance, advancing slowly over
the rough broken road ; and Alan starts

up with an eagerness which puts the
hawk to flight for evermore, a sadder and
a wiser bud.

*eben" looked up with a low growl,
quickly changed to a deprecating smile,
as Cecil Euthven drew near, and offered
her well-laden basket to Mr. Dering with
the laughing words —

^' If you are as weighed down for want
of your food, as I am with the weight of
it, you'll find plenty here to lighten your
care, and mine too I hope."

^' How good of you to toil all this way
with that heavy basket. Janet seems to
have rationed us up for a week, by the
look of its contents. Egg sandwiches
too ! My most coveted delicacy." And
both the young people sat down on the
heather and discussed their luncheon as
calmly as if no moral and mental thunderbolt
were waiting to descend at any
moment on their heads.

'shave you only shot two brace ?'*
asked Cecil with surprise, when their
repast was concluded

** I didn't try for any more, after I had
got those. They'd be so heavy to carry,
you see, and besides, I had something
else to think of."

His grave tone awed his listener, and
her intended merry rejoinder died away
on her lips.

^' Cecil, will you listen to me quietly
for a few minutes ? " and Alan's eyes
were fixed on her face with a very reckless
light slowly dawning in their depths.

The girl looked surprised at the sound
of her name, but bowed her head in
assent.

'' I heard from your father this morning
that you are engaged to Sir Francis
Euthven ; I did not know it, I had not
dreamed of such a thing! "

Again a look of calm surprise, as these
hurried and disjointed sentences fall from
Mr. Bering's lips.

*' But, Cecil, it must not be, it shall
not be ! Oh, m}^ darling, can you not
guess how I love you, how every pulse in
my heart beats for your sweet sake alone,
and how can I give you up to another ?
Darling, say you do not wish it, that you
will be mine, mine only, — never his ? "

In truth, the absent boy is being shown
small mercy now !

^*But I cannot, indeed I cannot," and
honest tears stand in Cecil's clear eyes
as she reads the despair creeping into
those which are looking so anxiously into
her own.

*why not? You cannot love him,
surely?"

A crimson blush spreads over the girl's
face as she answers hesitatingly —

'^I think I do. But what right have
you to ask, Mr. Dering ? " The old lord's
haughty pride of race shines out now on
his daughter's face.

** The right of a man who loves sou
as he loves nothing else in heaven or
earth," is the steadfast answer.

For one instant the girl hesitates.
Surely, this indeed must be what men
call ^' love ; " could the ^i blithe lad " who
was far away, ever offer her such love

«

as this, the very breath of which seems
to startle and rouse her from her childhood
and maiden years ? But yet, the
absent boy had been very kind and loveable
to her, and the few hours which she
had spent in his society shone out in
her desolate young life like a bright light
seen in the gloomy twilight; and so
she magnified this vague memory into
a clear and beautiful reality, and come

what might, she must assuredly love
him some day if not now.

So her words are low and decided, and
no tremor shakes her voice, as she speaks
the death-how to Alan Bering's hopes —

'^ I will not dispute your right to speak
any words you choose ; but, Mr. Dering,
I may not, till not listen. My father
wills that I should marry my cousin, and
I am content."

^^But could you not learn to love me,
too, a little, Cecil — ever so little — and
then choose between us?" Involuntarily
the words brought to his hearer's
mind the piteous petition for also a
blessing, uttered by a defrauded brother
so many centuries ago.

^' No, I feel sure not." And then asa
recollection of her companion's undeniable
charm of character crosses her
mind, Cecil adds, ^* whoever in this world

ever learns to care for you, Mr. Bering,
will care very, very much, I am certain ;
and then you will find a love worthy of
you, but not till then."

"What do I care for the many, so I
am robbed of the one only woman in
the world to me ? " retorts Alan During
bitterly. " Thank God, you at least do
not offer me that last refuge of the
destitute — friendship I ' '

"No," says Cecil, humbly. "I know
that mine is not worth having."

Oh, darling, forgive me ! I would
take even that much thankfully, fool that
I am ; " and something almost like tears-stand
in the pleading, desperate eyes
which meet her own. After all he is
but a boy still, and twenty-four years
of life are scarcely enough to teach us
how to show a callous front in dire pain.
Perhaps, in all future time to come,.

;would Cecil Eiitliven never again receive
so pure and true a homage as those same
tears in the eyes of her first true love.

^^ We two can never be friends, Mr.
Bering, not for a long, long time," she
replies sadly, wiser in her unsophisticated
judgment than many a more
worldly-wise woman would have been.
Hers was a character which would never
allow itself to be blindfolded, and then
say, *^I see not."

There is a silence of some minutes;
then Cecil rises to her feet and prepares
sadly enough to return home once more,
with downcast face, like the very culprit
that she feels. For had she not unwittingly
done a mortal injury to one
who had been so kindly a friend, so
pleasant a companion to herself? And
Cecil turns and looks back at him with
anxious, irresolute eyes.

Then she goes quietly up to where he
stands moodily apart, lays her hand on
his arm and says with honest frankness,
** Mr. Dering, indeed I would so gladly
like you ; I mean, as you ivislied me to
like you," here there is a hesitating falter,
and a crimson wave floods over the girl's
pale sale, " but somehow, I think I cannot
and — and there is my cousin to think
of too, you see."

'^ Your cousin ! He must truly care
for you a deal, to waste every day and
hour of his life far away fi'om you,"
replies Alan, scornfully.

^'He cannot help his delicate health,"
answers the girl with uplifted head and
a touch of indignation in her voice.
The weaker cause would always find a
staunch ally in Cecil Kuthven.

^* Perhaps not. But were I he, I'd
risk losing the longest span of future

years wliicli trio gods might promise me,
sooner than lose one single moment of
life by your side, whilst I had it ! Oh,
darling, darling, have you no thought for
my darkened life, for the weary years of
living and longing which lie before me,
for the dreary end of a loveless life ?
Is there no feeling in you?" and he
clasped the girl's hand in passionate
entreaty.

^'How could I guess that you would
care for me ? " murmurs Cecil, in humble
see-defence.

*how could any one live with you
even a day, and not do so ? "

-But there are so many others in the
world besides me," urges the girl simply,
trying vainly to point out a few mitigating
facts for his comfort and consolation.

^' I will have none of them ! " is Mr.
Bering's reckless and virtuous rejoinder ;

and as Cecil does not fathom the improbability
of this resolution being adhered
to, she feels an even more terrible culprit
than heretofore.

Well, I must go home now," she said
slowly; ^' but if oily I knew what to do or
say to comfort you, Mr. Bering, how
gladly would I do or say it ! "

^^ For God's sake, don't torture me,
child ! " burst out her listener with angry
vehemence. '' Do you think that a stone is
of any use to a starving man, when bread
is denied him ? Ah, darling, forgive me ;
I feel so utterly and madly miserable, that
I no longer even know what I am saying !
Dear one," and Alan's voice now is quiet
and self-controlled enough, as he goes on
speaking, with both his hands clasped
close over one small white one which
vainly struggles to be free, " I know that
you are truth itself. I feel that you are

VOL. I. 13

not as other women are, and that you .
swill be all or nothing to whomsoever may
love you, and I would not wish it otherwise.
Hoi great the happiness of him
whom you must one day love will be
I cannot dream of even ; I cannot fathom
such unutterable joy ; I can only say,
would God it were mine ! ' But you
cannot help it, dear one, it is no fault of
yours, and so I must bend before my
accursed fate as best I can."

^' Aye, bend if it must be, but do not
break ! " and a proud, eager look crosses
the girl's pale face. ^^I do not know
much about these things," she adds,
wistfully and sadly, " but I never yet saw
a great grand pine-tree broken by the
storm if only it bowed before it. There
is the world, and there is Hfe hidden in it
somewhere, — it must not be wasted."

Alan is silent, for he cannot fathom

this gifts strange nature, so bright and
passionate in all dreams of life, so dead
and cold to all dreams of love. Nor does
he attempt to follow or recall her, as
slowly she walks back on the homeward
way, for what more was there to be said ?
The absent boy had won the day !

At an early horn* next morning Alan
Bering took his last look for many,
many a year at Ercildoun's old towers,
as the gaunt grey horse bore him swiftly
and surely away from the place where* he
had suffered so keen a joy, so dire a
sorrow.

The morning was dull and gloomy, no
ray of sun could pierce through the
dreary black clouds ; and as wreaths of
mist and sea-fog drifted slowly over the
grand old ruined pile, winding shadowy
grey arms round tower and turret, it
looked like some enchanted faint castle

slowly disappearing and dissolving into
thin air at the touch of a wizard's wand.
Grander in its departed glory, more
desolate in its weird loneliness than
speech could tell, as the very last of its
ruined towers was slowly blotted out from
view, Alan Dering experienced a strange
feeling creeping over him as of one who
had been living in some enchanted region
full of haunted lives ; and there was
something almost like relief in his voice
now, as lowly he murmured to himself,
'^ Surely this must be the end of ^ mon
rev ! ' "

CHAPTEK XII.

Brighton.

Behind him a Past that was over for ever ;
Before him a fiitm-e devoid of endeavour
And pm-pose. He felt a remorse for the one.
Of the other a fear. AVhat remain'd to be done ?
Whither now should he turn ? turn again, as before,
To his old easy, careless existence of yore
He could not. He felt that for better or worse
A change had passed o'er him ; an angry remorse
Of his own frantic failure and error had marr'd
Such a refuge for ever. The future seem'd barr'd
By the corpse of a dead hope o'er which he must tread
To attain it."

Lucile.
The doves are censured, while the crows are spared."

Translation from Juvenal.

More tliau two years had passed and
gone, leaving but slight traces behind to
track their way, when once again Alan
Dering found himself brought face to

face with old friends, the very sight of
whom carried him back in remembrance
to the days he had spent in the wild
^' North Contrive," the memory of which
had even yet some power to move him.

Not that Captain Dering, as his rank
now was, had gone about the world a
saddened and wearied man ; not that
even his best friend ever guessed how
sorely deep had been the wound which
he bore so silently and so well that none
could tell the knife had begone home; "
yet in his dreams by night, in his
thoughts by day, one face alone was forever
and ever before him, and do what
he would its shadowy presence never left
him.

At first he had welcomed it, and, with
his fantastic views of life, had looked
upon it as a guardian spirit to be evoked
at will ; but time wore on, and he grew

harder and colder in his judgments as
the visionary presence of his spirit-love
grew less and less distinct. Even her
trick of turning her head to look one full
in the face when speaking, even the
restless quiver of the sensitive lips when
she was pleased or excited, even the
clasp of her frank true hand, all these
things were of the past now, forgotten asa
dead man out of mind.

The days that were ! Are there any,
save the very young, to whom they are
in reality the golden past?" It is to
be feared that to most in this world they
have little glitter left, and that the links
in the golden chain have a strange resemblance
to the iron fetters of imprisonment.
For each bright memory of health,
happiness, and kindly, well-loved faces,
there rise up others of long and weary
hours of pain, of happiness which was

fain to have lasted a lifetime, and yet
scarcely lasted a day, of friends who have
forsaken us, of trust betrayed.

There is a problem hard to solve in
youth, but harder still to solve as life
goes on — whether memory be a curse ora
blessing ? Naturally, the answer would
much depend on the " memories of the
past " which each life holds ; but apart
from this, and given even the very
brightest, it is still a question hard to
answer ! There are times when " dark
memories" seem almost the happiest, for
one may at least realize that they are
all over and done with, and can return
no more ; whereas the thought of the
bright " ones brings with it a terror lest
they shall fade, or a still wilder regret for
their past and unforgotten sweetness in
^' the days that are no more."

Whether memory were a curse or a

blessing to Alan Dering, he himself could
scarce have said. That he had found the
only woman on earth who should ever
have sway over his soul, he knew ; that
he had found her only to lose her again,
he could not, hould not realize. Truly
has it been said: ^'It is so strange; vv^e
see a million of faces, we hear a million
of voices, we meet a million of women
with flowers in their breasts and light in
their eyes, and they do not touch us.
Then we see one, and she holds us for life
and death, and plays with us idly often —
idly as a child with a toy. She is not
nobler, better, nor more beautiful than
were all those we passed, and yet the
world is empty to us without her."

Vainly he tried to work himself into
feelings of wrath and indignation against
Life, Fate, all things, even against her ;
it was of no avail. Life might look

dreary, Fate might not shine on him, but
the memory of clear true eyes and a
frank, loving smile rent away the clouds
from his heart and bade him remember
that after all the world loss fair.

It had been well could he only have
also remembered the yearning after a
nobler life, a life of work as well as pleasure,
of power and strength in place of
weakness and indolence, which had arisen
so strongly in his heart when the might
of a great love had awoke all that was
noblest and best therein. But with the
loss of his one great irredeemable stake,
an indolent and yet reckless carelessness
seemed to have come over Alan Bering's
mind and soul ; and though he had no
longer ^^ gold " left to stake, still he
ventured the ^' silver " left him with careless
prodigality on every turn of the great
game of Life ; and yet there was no pleasure

in anything, no satisfaction to be
bought on any side, and the requiem of
each night and day was for ever the
same — ^' this also is vanity."

To how many of this world is the earth
in blank and utter darkness because their
sun does not shine on them, and because
they will have none other gods save that
one alone ? And it is strange to think
that a heathen's prayer should most perfectly
realize the ideal of a blessing which
is longed for unutterably and yet as surely
despaired of — ^' for the jewel in the
heart of the lotus ! "

It was October, and the Brighton season
was coming rapidly to its height. The
heterogeneous mass of human being
which crowd it during the later summer
months, had more or less disappeared ;
and that all-pervading element, which is
rendered conspicuous by its money and

its profile, had returned to captivity in
the counting-houses of mighty Babylon.

The 30th Hussars, now quartered at
Brighton, were about to give a ball ; and
as Captain Dering and his Fidus Achates,
Mr. Teddy Graham, stood leaning one
afternoon against the rails which hinder
promenaders on the King's Road from
precipitating themselves on to the beach
below, they passed in review the many
matrons and maids who either walked,
rode, or drove past their criticising eyes,
with a view to ascertaining the quantity,
not to say quality, of their impending
lady guests.

Apparently they each and all found but
little favour in Captain Bering's fastidious
eyes, for he so derided the taste of his
more easily pleased companion, that even
Teddy Graham's imperturbable good
temper became a little ruffled at last,

and lie expressed his conviction, in somewhat
terse and nervous English, that if
Venus herself were to walk up and down
the Parade, he, Alan Dering, would not
so much as cast a glance at her charms.

''I daresay I shouldn't, if she were
dressed in the fashion of the day'*
responded Alan with equanimity. *^ Of
course, if she affected the costume in
vogue at her receptions on Mount
Olympus I probably should look at her
with m such attention,, and so would tlfe
police, no doubt. But, Teddy, I'm very
sorry if it hurts your feelings that I can't
admire those everlasting *fine women'
you are given to raving over. My idea
of ' a fine woman ' is the Fat Girl in a
show, or a woman whom one can see half
a mile off down a road."

snow look at that tall girl with the
fair hair, — on the chestnut horse, I

mean ! " bursts in Teddy with enthusiastic
■vvarmth, as a party of three or four persons
ride leisurely past them ; *^ did you ever
see a better figure than that, now ? "

*^No; it's not so bad," acquiesced
Captain Bering, more from a desire to
please his companion than from any
admiration which he felt for the fair
blonde's ample charms. ^' But I don't
think that chestnut horse is quite up to
her weight, Teddy, do you ? I should
say, now, that he was an eleven stone
horse."

Mr. Graham flashed an indignant glance
at the speaker, and an admiring one at
his fair one's receding form, and then
remarked discontentedly —

^'I can't think what she can see in
that great lout of a young lord who is
always dancing attendance on her now.
Bid you ever see such an unlicked cub in

your life ? And lie's as big a fool as lie
looks, too, which is saying a good deal."

'^ Teddy, what fervour there must be in
your Sunday morning devotions, when
they pray that the nobility may be endued
with ' grace, wisdom, and understanding.'
Do you ever think of him''
enquired Alan, sympathetically.

'^ Think of the brute ? I wouldn't
waste a thought on him ! " exclaimed Mr.
Graham in hot indignation, and quite
ignoring the fact that since the sais
stout of a lord's had attached himself to
the fair blonde's train, he, Mr. Graham,
had been ignominiously ousted from his
position as first favourite, and consequently
had given that usurping sprig of
nobility a good many more thoughts, not
to say hard words, than he would care to
admit.

'halloa, Geoff, where are you off to

in such a hurry ? Come here and help us
criticise the natives," said Teddy Graham,
laying his hand on the shoulder of a fair,
gentlemanlike boy, who was hurrying
past without perceiving them.

A vexed look crossed the latter's face,
but it was quickly changed to an irresolute
smile as he recognised his interlocutor.

^'I'd like to, old fellow," he said
hesitatingly, "but I'm afraid I can't wait
now. Why, Alan, when did you get
back?" he added in surprise, as he
caught sight of his cousin.

Late last night, Geoff," said Captain
Dering, in the kindly tone which he
always used to those younger than himself,
and with whom he was invariably
popular. "I like Alan Dering, he gives
himself no airs, and yet stands no
nonsense," was the general verdict of
the junior members of Her Majesty's
30th Hussars with respect to Alan.

Geoffry Dumaresqiie was a well-looking
young fellow enough, and to many his
fair, girlish face would even seem to have
a claim on beauty, of an effeminate type ;
but physiognomists would have shaken
their wise heads as they noted the weakness
of his mouth and chin, and the
irresolution expressed in the handsome
blue eyes. Even the vacillating good
humour to be read on his face told its
own tale ; and the tone of his soft and
hesitating voice stood out in great contrast
to the strong, cheery one of Teddy
Graham, no less than to the low, decided
tones of Alan Bering.

^^I can't stay; I'm awfully sorry, but
I canny' and Geoffry Dumaresque took
a step forward, then stopped and hesitated,
as if considering a change of mind,
and then finally went on his way once
more.

VOL. I. 14

His two brother officers looked at each
other significantly, and Mr. Graham
began to whistle in a soft and chastened
tone of dubious satisfaction.

What's up with Geoff? " asked Alan,
quietly ; '' you know I've hardly seen
anything of him, though he is my cousin ;
but I suppose that now we are in the
same regiment I shall know him better."

^^ What's up with him ? " repeated
Teddy Graham, ruefully. ^^ Exactly that
which is at the bottom of most mischief
in the world! "

"Quelle est la femme?" was Alan
Bering's laconic comment on this intelligence.


*' That's the worst of it. She's not
even a lady, and they say the young fool
will in all probability lead her to the
hymeneal altar too."

"The devil! " exclaimed Alan, aghast.

*eyes, it just is the devil to pay, I
can tell you ; but the only consolation
I get out of the business is that old
Dumaresque will cut the young ass off
with a shilling, and I know that you are
the next heir to Beechwarden, etc.,
aren't you?"

^' I believe so," answered Captain
Dering, absently. ^' Teddy, I must look
after this boy, and put a stop to all
this tom-foolery, if I can," he added,
earnestly. ^' Tell me all you know about
it."

sewell, it began about two months
ago, when you were away so long on
shooting leave, and the girl belongs to
a London circus which is down here for
the winter."

^' A circus ! Do you mean to say that
she rides bare-backed and jumps through
hoops?" ejaculated Captain Dering, in
utter dismay.

"No, no; not so bad as that, my
dear fellow. She rides, certainly, but it's
on a saddle, and she's always dressed ina
habit, too. Her business is to show
off the bucking and kicking part of the
haute ecole style, and right well she does
it too," added Teddy, with grudging
fairness.

"And do you know anything about
what sort of a girl she is ? "

They say quiet enough. I know that
nobody tries to make up to her without
regretting it, for she can hold her own
well."

"Pretty?"

"Very, in a gipsy sort of style. And
the black horse she always rides is as
near perfection as any light-weight
hunter I ever saw; none of your pink-nosed,
spotted devils, I can assure you!
I tell you, my boy, it's very serious, and

the sooner yoii or this other friends interfere,
the better. Geoffry Dumaresque is
a good-hearted lad enough, but as weak
as water ; if he wants this young woman,
he'll try to get her somehow, you may
depend ; and if he happens to be in a
softened mood, or it's after dinner, or
anything dangerous like that, a woman's
tear carefully shed at the right moment
would extricate any number of promises
of matrimony from him."

For a minute or two both men
remained immersed in contemplation,
pondering over what steps it were best
to take in so intricate a matter.

*^ I should like to see her," said Alan,
at last, decidedly; ^' then one could judge
better of the dangers in the case."

*^ Well, come with me to the ^Eoyal
Hippodrome,' as the proprietor calls it,
to-night, and you'll certainly see her."

'sall right, I will. Wliy, Teddy,
surely that is your sister coming towards
us now, isn't it ? "

*' Of course it is. They live only three
miles out of Brighton now; didn't you
know that? "

^^ No, I didn't."

*^ You see, Grahamstown was always
too damp for my mother in the winter,
so they've let it for a year or two and
have taken a place called Elmleigh, close
by here. It's all right for me, of course,
as we're quartered at Brighton, and so
we're one and all pleased, which is a rare
occurrence in family circles," concluded
Mr. Graham complacently, as both men
advanced to meet Mrs. Graham and her
daughter, who were now approaching.

CHAPTEK XIII.

Made LEE.

The same dull toil — no end, no aim !
The same vile babble in mine ears :
The same unmeaning smiles :

4i ^ * 4«

But now and then, her name will fall
From careless lips with little praise, •

On life's parch surface, shattering all
The dry indifference of my days."

One Morning.

Two years had made little alteration in
Mary Graham's kindly face, and it was
with a sensation of real pleasure that
Alan Bering met her good-humoured
bright smile once more, as he received a
most hearty welcome from both her
mother and herself.

*' Whenever you've nothing particular
to do, mind you come over to us, Captain
Bering, for you know we live quite close
to Brighton now."

** Indeed I will, gladly, Mrs. Graham.
And my old friends Tosy and Posy, how
are they ? '

*' Oh, quite well ; hut you must see
them for yourself. Let me think — we've
some people to dinner tomorrow night,
and Teddy is coming, too ; don't you
think you could drive over with him ? "

'^ I should he delighted," began Alan,
and looked inquiringly at his friend.

sand it will 'do me proud' to bring
him, mother ; so you may expect us both
in time for the feast. By the way, what
time do you dine, Mary ? "

*' At a quarter to eight. And, Captain
Bering, your cousin Isabel comes today,
to stay with us for a while, and so

you can make her acquaintance again,
for you have not met since you were both
children have you ? "

'*No; I shall be quite curious to see
what she has grown into now, for she
was only a pretty, fluffy-haired little doll
when I saw her last."

An almost imperceptible glance was
exchanged between the brother and sister,
favouring an idea that the same words
which described Miss Dumaresque in her
earlier years, would describe her as weil
in these her later ones.

^^ Where are you both off to, mother ? "
inquired Teddy, presently.

'' We were going to walk as far as that
big Berlin wool shop, right down the
King's Road, you know, Teddy? "

'^ No, mother, my acquaintance with
Berlin wool shops is very limited; however,
I shall escort you as far as that

emporium of bliss, for old acquaintance'
sake; " and Mr. Graham takes his mother's
feeble arm into his own strong young one,
and mother and son pace on slowly together,
whilst Mary Graham and Alan
follow behind, talking over friends and
scenes of the past.

Several times the name of Cecil
Euthven came to his lips, but always
remained unspoken ; even yet he could
not say it with the shrinking calmness
of one to whom it was but an ordinary
word. Besides, what need to ask about
her more ? It was six months now since
an announcement in the newspaper had
told him that Sir Francis Euthven was
married to Cecil, the only daughter of
Thomas, ninth Lord Ercildoun.

Mrs. Graham emerged from her wool-shop
at last, with a countenance of
radiant satisfaction over the fleecy articles

purchased therein, and as Mary and lier
brother walked on first this time, Captain
Dering saw and seized this judicious
moment for approaching the subject
which was still on his mind, encouraging
his somewhat failing courage with the
recollection of his kind old friend's general
obtuseness, which he hoped would raise up
a sheltering barrier to his own shyness.

Miss Euthven, did you say, Captain
Dering ? Oh yes, she's married ; married
her cousin, you know, that delicate boy
who could never live in England. They're
abroad again now, I believe, for his
health."

'^ Where was she married? " Do what
he will, he cannot speak save in short and
laconic sentences.

** Oh, at Ercildoun, by special licence,
of course. It was a queer wedding altogether,
for they asked no one to come toit

; tliougli I'm sure, poor girl, I'd have
gone willingly enough if I could. It
seemed so sad for her to be married off
like an ordinary village girl, without
either friends, or trousseau, or wedding
favours, or anything nice and comfortable,
you know."

^' And Lord Ercildoun, I heard that he
had died almost directly afterwards ? "

^^ Within a month of his daughter's
marriage. They found him at early
morning, sitting in some queer little tower
of the old castle, where he spent most of
his days and nights they say, quite dead.
His was a strange life. Captain Dering.
But, I forgot ; of course you know that
well enough, for I remember you went to
stay there after you left us two years
ago."

*eyes, I did." He had not quite forgotten
the circumstance even yet.

sand what was it like? And was
Miss Euthven nice, when you came to
know her better ? I always liked that
girl, Captain Dering, since she came to
that garden party at our house, do you
remember? "

Yes, he remembered !

^' She was so graceful, and shy, and
natural, all in one ; I thought of her often
afterwards, and wished I could have her
to stay, but the old lord would never let
her come again."

At this moment Mrs. Graham's carriage
overtook them, and the two ladies forthwith
took their departure homewards ;
whilst Alan and his friend returned to
their interrupted occupation of studying
the different styles of beauty submitted
to their gaze, as each party of equestrians
or pedestrians paraded past.

A few hours later on, both men saunter

into the gorgeously gilded building which
rejoices in the appellation of ^^ The Royal
Hippodrome," and take their seats where
a close view of the performers in that
sawdust arena is ensured to them.

The evening's performance is more
than half over ; the clown has cracked
his jokes ; the pantaloon has cracked his
skull ; the star-spangled ladies on cream-coloured
coursers have come and gone ;
and only one more incce de resistance is
there to offer to the public now. The
dull thud of a horse's hoofs on boards is
heard, the curtains are pulled back, and
into the arena advances a girl on horseback.


^' That's her ! " exclaims Teddy, excitedly
and ungrammatically ; and Alan
Bering watches the new comer with
interest.

Anything less "professional" it were

difficult to find, for the quiet black habit
and neat hat of the rider were only in
keeping with the plain double-bridle and
unornamented saddle which adorned the
horse. The latter, too, was a strange
contrast to his other equine friends of the
circus ; well-bred, clever-shaped, with the
free, easy stride of a thoroughbred horse,
he walked round the arena with an occasional
confidential toss of his handsome,
lean black head, as if to say, ^'this is a
different class of thing altogether, I cal
tell you."

That the girl in the dark habit was
both well-known and popular, made itself
soon apparent to all, for a storm of applause
greeted her arrival, and much
rapping of sticks from the *' golden
youths " in the front row fell on the ear.

She bowed in return repeatedly, but
with a weary, distrait look, as if her

thoughts were elsewhere. Beautiful she
was without doubt ; beautiful with the
dark flashing beauty of her gipsy blood,
and yet with far more refinement than is
usually to be found in that same type.
No paint, no rouge disfigured her bright,
dark face ; and her lithe, active form
seemed the very incarnation of wild
freedom and grace.

But it was not her beauty alone that
made the greatest impression on Alan
Dering, as steadily he watched her every
movement ; it was the softened, loving
look on her face as if she were dwelling
on some inward thought which was too
pure and deep for the outer world's ken.

^^ Teddy, you were right; that's a dangerous
face," says Alan Dering, low.

^' I told you so, my boy ; and yet it's
hardly one that your uncle would care to
see reigning at old Beechwarden, eh ? "

'^ Her name, what is it ? "

** Madge Lee. It's a good gipsy name,
but hardly good enough, I think."

Now the band strikes two or three loud
chords, and the black horse paces solemnly
into the centre of the arena and stands
still expectantly, both he and his rider
motionless. Suddenly a merry clash of
music breaks forth from the orchestra,
and the horse bounds high into the ah,
giving an impression to the lookers-on m
general that he has most certainly taken
leave of his equine senses for ever and a
day. Down to the earth he comes, only
to leave it once more in a series of Australian
'buck-jumps" that would have
tried the nerves of even the most experienced
stock-rider, but which seem
powerless to shake the equilibrium of the
slight figure on his back for an instant ;
and he diversifies this performance with

VOL. I. 15

occasional perpendicular rears, varied by
some decidedly horizontal kicks. Louder
and louder crashes the music in the
orchestra, to a wild ^'Walpurgis yacht "
tune, known to fame as '^ La dernier
valse d'un fou;" and Madge Lee seems
to have woke up to her work at last.
The distrait look has all disappeared, her
face lights up with wild excitement and
pleasure ; and as the maddest plunge of
all brings the black horse and its rider
close under the spot where the two friends
are sitting in state, a low, merry laugh,
like that of a pleased child, falls on Alan
Bering's ear.

If I didn't know that she taught that
brute herself, and if I didn't see that she
keeps working him with her hand every
minute, upon my word I shouldn't like it
at all ! " exclaims Teddy Graham, at last.
*^ What a devil of a funk I should be in if

my first charger took to doing that sort
of business," he adds feelingly.

The music ceases suddenly, and in an
instant the '* Prince of Darkness," as
the black horse is not inappropriately
named, stands motionless once more;
and only his heaving flanks and distended
nostrils tell of the frightful exertion which
that fiendish equine can-can had in reality
been to him. Madge Lee's face, too, is
calm and quiet once more, ant the old
distrait look creeps over it again. Before'
half the rounds of applause have died
away, she bows quietly to the applauders,
then turns her horse's head, and rides
out of the ring.

Alan Dering watches her with attention.
He notes how careless is the glance
which she gives to the admiring audience,
how childishly fervent is the embrace
she bestows on the good black horse,

when, through an opening in the curtain,,
he can just see her jump Lightly off his
back behind the scenes ; and he turns to
his friend, as both rise to leave the place,
with a remark which is the result of most
profound conviction.

Teddy, that girl will defeat all our
plans ; she is too reals''

CHAPTER XIV.

Brown EYES.

"Honour is courage, and that sweet self-forgetfulness
which hastens to bear its own blame, and to accept the
consequences of its own mistakes. Honour is that energy
which rises to all the emergencies of life. Though, in nine
cases out of ten we are beaten by the material events of ou
lives, we can always be its spiritual masters. Against
events, and their odd unforeseen combinations, we may be
helpless enough, but against ourselves we can be all-powerful,
and it is against ourselves that, nine times out often,
the effort must be made."

Author of Very etc.

"^^ Oh ! please help me, will you? " And
as Captain Dering saunters slowly along
the beach by the ^^ sad sea wave," next
morning, his reverie is abruptly interrupted
by a piteous voice, whose owner
is in some extremity.

The tide is coming in fast, and the
boat in which the speaker sits has not
only begun to float, but has swung out
to the full reach of its short anchoring
chain, and is bobbing up and down on
the swell of the surge most unpleasantly.

^' Of course ! Don't move until I pull
the boat up as high as I can ; you'll be
up to your waist in water if you jump out
now;" and Captain Dering struggles
manfully at the end of the chain, and
finally succeeds in extricating the young
lady from her moist, if not exactly
perilous, position.

A glance suffices to show him that the
rescued fair one is none other than Madge
Lee herself; and he feels a decided satisfaction
at this opportune meeting, which
may assist him in gaining some idea as
to the extent of the danger now threatening
Geoffry Dumaresque.

*show lucky for me that you came
by!" exclaims Madge, joyfully, as she
jumps lightly out of the boat. **I must
have been asleep," she adds, laughing;
'for though of course I knew that the
boat would float soon, the tide was ever
so far off when last I looked at it."

^^ I'm glad too, that I came by, Miss
Lee."

*' How do you know my name ? " and
a quick, distrustful look crosses the girl's
face at his words. •

because I had the pleasure of seeing
you act, I mean — er — er "

*you mean ride'" finishes Madge
calmly, and cutting Captain Bering's
rather lame civilities ruthlessly short.
^' Of course, every one in the town knows
me, I suppose," she adds in a voice
wherein pride and a sort of sadness fight
for mastery.

'^ Don't yon like that ? " inquires Alan,
cautiously feeling this way.

'well, I like the work itself," answers
Madge frankly, '' and I wouldn't like to
think I had made a mess of it, and that
no one praised me ; but then, no one
does praise me whose i)i'^ise I care
about."

As Captain Dering is quite unaware
of the fact that her nightly performance
in the '' Royal Hippodrome " is a source
of unmixed aggravation to Mr. Geoffrey
Dumaresque, an aggravation too which
he takes no pains to conceal from her,
he feels somewhat puzzled at the saddened
look which crosses Madge Lee's merry
dark eyes for a moment.

But she soon forgets her grievance, and
chatters on as gaily as before. Her
instinct tells her that the man before her
is a thorough gentleman in all ways, and

SO the curt ^' good morning " which would
have followed her grateful thanks, had
she been addressing any man in her own
rank of life, remains now unspoken. No
fear of vulgar attentions or broad compliments
being paid her here, she thinks,
such as she has learnt to dread from the
counter skippers in the town, or even from
^^ golden youths" in good society. And
so she plays into Alan's hands unhesitatingly,
and amuses him much by her
shrewd, quick criticisms on things and
people in general, whilst she also
decidedly surprises him with the unmistakable
refinement and superiority which
she evinces over those usually to be found
in her own station of life.

But the girl's true fascination lay in
her strangely mingled character, a character
which could be read at a glance, so
clear and simple was it. Loving and

tenderhearted to the children and the
weak ones on earth, passionate and reckless
were her wild gipsy blood once
roused, as careless of to-day as a bird in
the air, as heedless of the morrow as a
child at play, yet the proud self-respect
of her race keeps her free and untainted
in an atmosphere which would have
proved fatal to most.

^^ And who are you, please ? " she asks
with a merry laugh.

*'My name is Dering, and I'm in the
30th Hussars, which regiment is, as you
know, quartered here."

** Oh yes, I know ; " and a pleased little
quiver at each corner of the mouth tells a
tale.

'^ Do you know any of my brother-officers
? " inquires Alan quietly, firing
the first shot into the enemy's camp.

*' No — that is — eyes, I know one,"

answers the girl. And after an instant's
hesitation, she adds shyly, ^^it is Mr
Dumaresque."

*^ There's no doubt she likes liim^''*
thinks Alan to himself, on whom the shy
reserved tone in which she spoke the
name, so different from her usual light
gay accents, had made an unpleasant
impression.

'^ Geoffry Dumaresque is my cousin""
he says aloud.

^^ Is he ? " and a look of eager interest
comes over Madge's face as she inspects
him with far greater attention than she
has apparently vouchsafed his good-looking
self as yet.

** He's a good boy is Geoff, but as weak
as water," continues Captain Dering,.
leading up recklessly to the topic uppermost
in his thoughts.

*' He doesn't give one the idea of that'*
responds Madge drily'.

'^Ah, but he is tliougli ! And it's a
great pity, too ; for a lad like that, who
ought to be heir to a great property, is
the last that should run any risk of getting
into scrapes."

Alan feels that he is going to be rather
hard on his young companion, and to be
hard on any woman whatsoever goes
sorely against his grain, but his heart
hardens at her next question.

"" Is Mr. Dumaresque really rich ? "

Oh no ! he has very little now ; but I
mean that he ought to have a lot of
money some day, when his father dies,

unless " and Alan emphasizes his

words by a slight pause, ^^ he does anything
foolish enough to cause his father
to disinherit him."

By the sudden start, and the quick,
anxious glance which he encounters from
the girl's dark eyes, Captain Bering feels

that his shot has gone home ; but how
deeply home he little thinks.

You mean," and each word falls
slowly from the speaker's lips in the
monotonous tone which tells of a desperate
struggle for composure, '^ that if
Mr. Dumaresque were to do anything
which displeased his father, say that he
married a girl whom nobody knew, or
anything of that sort, — he would be
ruined ? "

Alan scarcely likes to meet the eager,
wistful eyes which are raised to his own,,
and as he afterwards tells Teddy Graham,,
when recounting the whole interview to
his friend, ^^I did feel a brute; but you
see, as next heir, I was bound in honour
to do my living best for the boy," and
so he does not hesitate.

certainly; a bad marriage would be
fatal."

'sand what is ^a bad marriage'"
bursts in Madge Lee, passionately. ^' Is
it marrying a good, honest girl, who,
though maybe she isn't a lady born
and bred, can love him every bit as
much as if she is ? "

'^ It's not the girl herself," replies
Alan, gently, ^^it is that if her station
in life were much lower than his own,
there could be no happiness for either in
such a marriage."

'^ No happiness for him ? " and a pained,
despairing glance creeps into the dark
eyes now.

'' How could there be ? " is Alan's sole
rejoinder.

There ensues a long pause, and when
Madge Lee turns and confronts him at
last, he fairly starts at the expression
of her face. The sullen determination,
the vehement passion, have all died out

of it now, and in their place is left a look
of indescribable, resolute calm, such as
makes Alan Dering say to himself, '' that
is the face of one preparing to renounce
something great — she loll give him up."
Little does he know the depth of the
renunciation which has brought that look
on Madge Lee's face !

captain Dering, I understand you;
I understand your words better than
you think; but I'll not be the one to
owe you a grudge for them, for you meal
it well and kindly. Besides, I know that
it is just for your cousin's sake you're

speaking, and so " the soft look of

forgiveness in the girl's eyes speaks even
plainer than words ; how easy is the task
of forgiving anything done or said for
that one dear sake !

Captain Dering remains silent, and
Madge resumes — " But you need not

fear, for I'll save him yet ; and will take
care of him ; aye, and maybe better care
than many a fine lady in his own rank
of life would," and the girl laughs loud
in bitter scorn.

Alan Dering holds out his hand to her,
*^ I thank you for his father's sake, and
for his own too. God bless you, child
for your true woman's heart ! "

Madge is sobbing piteously now; all
the fire has faded from out the large,
dark eyes, and a broken look of despair
sits strangely on her bright young face.

^' Captain Dering," she says, at last,
*^if you hear hard things said of me —
if I don't seem to do as I say, just at
first, you must trust me on and on, it'll
all come right in the end."

*^I trust you fully," answers Alan,
quietly.

As if the implied trust was sweet

and soothing to her proud young heart,
Madge throws hack her head once more
and looks fearlessly into his grave, serious
face.

'' Well then, good-bye, Captain Dering.
There is nothing more for us two to say."

^'But shan't I see you again? Can't
I "

'help me, you were going to say.
No ; you can't. What help could you
give me without hurting him?''' answers
Madge, with bitter truth. ^'No," she
goes on more softly, ''no one can help
me now; but a good times come some
day if only I hold on!" And it is many
a day ere Alan forgets the bright, hopeful
look on the speaker's face, as she turns
and walks away from him, and is seen no
more.

During their drive to Elmleigh that
evening, Captain Dering confides the

VOL. I. 16

result of this momentous interview to
his friend and confidant, Teddy Graham,
speaking in subdued tones, with due regard
to the British batman sitting behind
them. And Alan feels chafed somehow,
because the astute Teddy declines to
believe in the honesty and good intentions
of ^^the little circus-rider," as he
calls Madge Lee, and so the subject drops
for a time. Teddy Graham is a good
fellow enough, but the higher and finer
natures of this world are invariably beyond
his powers of comprehension; and
so he condemns them, not Imomng.

Chapter XV.

BLUE EYES.

To doubt her fairness were to want an eye,
To doubt her pureness were to want a heart —

:{: N: "«: * *

Your beauty is your beauty. . . .
. . O grant my worship of it
Avoids, as we grant grief tears." •

Elaine.

A PLEASANT party of about twelve in all
was congregated in the drawing-room at
Elmleigli before dinner, when the son
of the house and his companion were
solemnly ushered in with due official
announcement by a dignified old butler,
who considered it evidently beneath him
to claim previous acquaintance with Mr.
Teddy Graham on any account.

They were all strangers to Alan ; three
or four were relatives of the Grahams
themselves, others he recognized as
Brighton residents ; hut each and all
looked commonplace and uninteresting,
and inwardly he groaned in spirit.

A country dinner-party was never Captain
Bering's idea of hiss at the hest
of times, nor had he yet arrived at that
age when the chef-d'oeuvre of a cordon
bleu was fain to outweigh all other considerations
in his mind; and so he had
just made up the latter to the inevitable,
and was preparing to he bored to death,
when a pair of lovely blue eyes looked
into his, and presto ! in an instant all
was changed.

^' You are my cousin Eosabel, I know,"
began Alan, somewhat eagerly ; and who
would not have been eager to claim acquaintance
with those liquid blue eyes ?

*^ I should have known you anywhere,
I think, although it is so many years
since last we met ! "

*^ Should you?" and the bright, vivid
blush on his cousin's cheek showed plainly
how much she appreciated this strength
of memory.

Isabel Dumaresque was lovely, of
that there was no doubt ; lovely with the
pure pink-and-white of a piece of porcelain,
and eyes as large and blue as those
of the shepherdesses painted on a Dresden
vase. A tender-hearted, soft, foolish
little girl in all things, made to be a toy
and a plaything, but never a strong, true
wife, or mother, or friend ; one whose sins
would always be those of omission, never
commission, and yet whose very weakness
might bring much woe on the lives
of others. It needed not the singular
likeness to her brother in the weak mouth

and irresolute eyes, to convince all beholders
that, beautiful though Eosabel
Dumaresque was, her 'face was her fortune
" so far as all great mental attributes
were concerned.

The dinner gong sounds ; the stately
butler appears once more and announces
dinner, as if conferring a favour on the
assembly at large, and Mary Graham, on
whom this duty invariably falls, proceeds
to pair her guests off suitably to their
rank, age, and infirmities.

^' Captain Dering," she says, when it
comes to Alan's turn, and is obviously
just going to join the name of an adjacent
dowager to his, when a pleading look on
Alan's face, and an anxious one on his
companion's, catches her eye, and being
good nature herself she instantly adds,
^' Will you take in Eosabel ? "

^^For what we are about to receive,

may oiir hearts be truly thankful ! "
murmurs Alas, sotto voce, as he feels his
pretty cousin's arm safely in his own, and
watches with awe the fat back of the
receding dowager aforementioned.

Isabel laughs prettily, and says, '^ You
naughty boy ! " She is aware of the fact
that conversation is not at all her forte,
and so she trusts a good deal to her
beautiful face and musical laughter to
make up for this deficiency.

When all were at last seated at table,
and husbands and wives safely rescued
from the calamity of sitting next to one
another, etc Captain Dering turned and
made a careful and minute inspection of
his newly discovered relative ; and truly
he found her fair.

Her black net dress fitted to perfection,
throwing out in dazzling contrast her fair
*' fluffy " hair, and delicate rose-leaf complexion

; and as her colour came and
went, and lier blue eyes darkened and
softened at each word which fell from her
companion's lips, what wonder that he
saw himself magnified into almost a demigod
by her loving, deferential gaze, and,
manlike, liked her all the better for it.

Truly was there here a most striking
contrast to the frank, calm gaze of Cecil
Euthven, as clear and cold as moonlight
on the water; why, then, should even
now her memory return unto him ; and
why should a strange longing to wake up
one instant's life in those beautiful, faraway
eyes of hers, outweigh the pleasure
of sunning himself in the unconcealed
admiration plainly apparent in those of
his present companion ?

'show is it we have never met before,
I wonder, Eosabel? " asks Alan, thinking
what a pretty, soft sounding name hers is.

^' I don't know. But I'm glad that we
have met at last." And the blue eyes
steal another shy glance at her good-looking
cousin.

*you are going to staj^ here sometime,
aren't you ? "

^^ Yes; nearly a month, I believe."

^' That's all right. Then I shall see
something of you. Mrs. Graham has
given me carte-blanche to come over here
whenever I like." •

"And you will come?" Oh, Eosabel,
were jojx a wiser woman, you would e'en
suppress the unmistakable anxiety apparent
in that question ; for is it not the
way, all the world over, for the conquered
to plead, the conqueror to grant ?

"Need you ask? "

I did not know if you would care to,"
answers Eosabel, demurely.

"Of course I shall come," is the

brief rejoinder ; but Alan's hazel-grey
eyes had a way of saying more than his
tongue, and the poor little girl feels
thoroughly triumphant and satisfied.

Decidedly he is interested in this newfound
cousin, and for the next half hour
Captain Dering devotes himself to finding
out her ideas on men, minds, morals,
and the world in general. This is not
difficult, for Isabel has lived a happy
and innocent life, hedged in by proprieties,
and the records of her past are
fair and clear indeed.

Alan — who has come to that state of
life when fair blank pages seem immeasurably
superior to those on which
Fate has scored black letters full of life
to some and of death to others — is quite
content with his discoveries; he heeds
not the fact, that those same fair pages
often mean that no one as yet has taken

pen in hand to trace any line or word
upon them. In that day when the
records of each Hfe shall be read out and
judged, perhaps the pages which are
written over throughout, but on which
each line is written fair and true, may
hold their own with even spotless records
of the past, to whom no stain has e'er
some nigh !

shave you seen your brother yet?"
inquires Captain Dering of his cousins,
when, dinner being well over, he finds
himself sharing a comfortable and sequestered
sofa with that young lady,
*far from the madding crowd."

'' No, I wish I had, Alan ; I can't help
thinking the poor boy has got into a
scrape or something horrid ; for Mary
looks so grave if I even mention his name
now. Do tell me what it is, if there is
anything wrong."

*^ Oil, no ; there's nothing the matter,
Eosabel ; at least, I hope not," answers
her cousin.

^^ But what? 5 it?"

'^ Oh, only a little flirtation of master
Geoff's; nothing you need trouble your
head about I assure you."

'but I can't help troubling about it,
Alan. If his father thought he were
silly, or — or — luilcl,'" here an expression
of awe comes into Eosabel' s pink and
white face, '' I don't know what he
wouldn't do to Geoff!"

'' Couldn't you make peace between
them, ma cohere cousin and Alan's
eyes imply that surely anything could be
done by herself.

*'No, indeed I couldn't," sighs Eosabel
helplessly.

'' Well, time enough to try when
it's really necessary, which I, for one,

think will never be the case. The girl he
has lost his heart to is a right good sort,
though she isn't a lady, certainly ; and I
think her own common sense and good
taste will rescue the position."

'^ But those sort of people never have
any ^ nice ' feelings," murmurs Eosabel,
shaking her pretty ^'fluffy" head disconsolately.


A sudden vision of Madge Lee's proud
dark face, wearing the same expression as
when she had said to him, ^' It'll be all
right yet, he shall be saved," crosses
Alan's mind abruptly, and he opens his
lips to speak up for the absent and
defenceless, when Eosabel once more
turns her lovely blue eyes on him, and
inquires into his plans for the ensuing
winter with a tender warmth which
drives all other considerations from out
his heart at once.

There was something so naive and
genuine about his pretty cousin's decided
admiration for himself, that though her
somewhat ostentatious evidence of the
same, would have imperilled her chance
of winning most men, Alan's heart,
being still unconsciously sore with the
memory of his first great losing hazard,
was decidedly touched by this transparent
devotion, so lovingly and sweetly
tendered.

Also the process of being made love tOy
instead of making his own compositions
in that line, had a very soothing charm
to his indolent and dreamy disposition,
hating trouble as if it were a cardinal sin;
and therefore he devoted himself to her
with increasing tenderness, and by the
time all '^ good-nights " where exchanged,
her lovely blue eyes had left an indelible
impression on his memory, which accompanied

him all the way on their moonlight
drive home to barracks.

His silence and general absence of
mind attracted even his companion's
observation at last, though by no means
of an observing disposition.

^^ Was that after-dinner claret corked? '^
inquires Teddy Graham anxiously.

^^I don't know, I stuck to champagne, "^
responds Alan absently.

'then what ^5 the matter with you?
for I know that the paternal ' cham ' is
good enough for anybody!" exclaims
Teddy, whose views of life are prosaic.

'' There's nothing the matter with me,
my dear fellow. By the way, Teddy, I
think your rival, the ' lout of a lord,' has
been sent to the right about at last."

'what makes you think so?" And
Mr. Graham's ideas are instantly averted
from the present.

'^ Oh, because I have met the blonde
goddess riding every afternoon this week,
and she has set up quite a new escort
altogether.

'who was it?" inquires Teddy
anxiously.

Sir W G ," responds his

friend, mentioning a name which it were
little credit for any woman to have her
own bracketed with.

I give her up ! " exclaims Mr.
Graham fiercely.

"Why? Because the poor young
woman is not superior to the attractions
of what is called ' a fashionable attachment
? '"

Mr. Graham maintains a sulky silence,
and Alan Dering continues speaking ina
sort of quiet soliloquy.

Of all tidings on earth to me the most
contemptuous are ' fashionable attachments.'

It is not that I look at them
from the moral point of view and say
they're wrong ^ but simply that as a rule
they are so undefinable vulgar ! Men or
women seem never happy unless their
especial weakness is made evident to the
British public at large, and to all those
whom they honour by the name of
^ pals,' — and then they call that caring;
they knew better in the days of old, I
fancy, but now, is there left one single
soul on earth which can realize that there
is a higher side to love, ^ life,' all things,
than that portrayed by a fashionable
attachment ? "

Even as he speaks, the innocent blue
eyes of Isabel seem to look at him
reproachfully ; and as the dogcart rattles
over the streets of Brighton, he not only
finds himself making a mental reservation
in favour of young girls who own blue

VOL. I. 17

eyes and innocent faces, but also tries
to stimulate Teddy to take him over to
Elmleigli again on the following afternoon,
ostensibly to try a new horse in
harness, in reality to see those particular
blue eyes once again.

And yet he was surely right when he
said that it was ^' the days of old " which
taught men and women to know and
realize what was a true, pure love. Now,
they drag the purest things on earth
through the mire of public comment, and
then wonder why they should become
common clay, — of the earth, earthy. How
can the loyal chivalry of old exist when
what ought to be prayed for and given, is
bought and sold? Truly, we are ''a
nation of traders," in this as in all else !

END OF VOL. I.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM Closes AND SONS, LIMITED,

Eccles AND LONDON. S. &* H.

Zff

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 045833925

Lii

Mm

^^m,

mim?.

^S^^-^

SSPIp»^

m^^!^^\jM^^

?^^rw^yywwwvwwvr

Wwyy^y?S^?g^^|^^^^^^-

j,^Uv-^

'immmmM

'^l^^^smt^mMmmm

wwyy

"^^^^iTriNm^^

m^

^VA^'W.-.Sii

g'WWyV:^',:

vwvvvuwvvi

vwyy/,,

vw/w/MHi^M'

;U\Ju. i^J.JlJr iiA'A'ir^ii A-. ^rfM^ji ^A-ja-riuyWikM t

OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS


F43a.

J to O^t."^

BY

Hon. Mrs. FETHEESTONHAUGH,

AUTHOR OF "KILCORRAN," " KINGSDENE," " ROBIN ADAIR.

Rather the ground that's deep enough for graves.
Rather the stream that's strong enough for waves,

Than the loose sandy drift
Whose shifting surface cherishes no seed.
Either of any flower or any weed,
Whichever way it shift."

Owen Meredith.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

NEW BURLINGTON STREET.

1880.

fall rights reserved.)

CONTENTS OE VOL. II.

CHAPTEK PA(iK

I. The 30th Hussars' Ball . . 1

II. A Woman's Yea . . 16

III. A Memory of the Past . . 32

IV. "NON TI Scorner DI ME " . 46
Y. Donna WAKEN SLEEPING DOGS . 61

\1. "Where'er I c.\me I BROUGHT Calamity" 77

VII. Good-bye . . . 90

VIII. What might have been . 103

IX. Beechwarden . . . 122

X. A Summer Morning . . 137

XI. Lady Euthven's Conquest . . 150

XII. Sunshine before Storm . 160

XIII. The Storm breaks . . 171

XIV. The Round Pond . . 184

XV. Judge not . . . 199

XVI. Three Visions . . 214

XVII. In the Gloaming . . 227

Chapter I.

THE 30th hussars' BALL.

And peradventure had he seen her first
She might have made this and that other world

Another world

but now
The shackles of an old love straightened him."

Elaine.

Midnight had struck, and "the lamps
shone o'er fah women and brave men; "
for the ball given by the 30th Hussars
]had reached its height, and was universally
acknowledged to be a most brilliant
success.

Given a good floor, room, and music,

VOL. 11. 18

excellent champagne, courteous hosts,
and pretty women, it was little wonder if
this entertainment were destined for ever
after to take a high place amongst the
annals of such festivities ; and as Alan
Dering and Miss Dumaresque paused to
rest for a while, turning an unheeding
ear to the "Or et Azur's " entrancing
notes, it needed no close observer to
fathom that here could be found two of
the very happiest hearts of even all the
many happy ones now beating time to
that gay valse tune.

Eosabel Dumaresque was the acknowledged
beauty of the evening, and though
her cousin's monopolising attentions of
late had rather damped the ardour of
sundry would-be adorers at that same
damsel's shrine, still they seemed one
and all to have recovered their spirits
to-night, and rallied round her with renewed
and ostentatious vigour.

'shave you promised all your dances,
Eosabel ? " inquired her partner, suddenly
recollecting his own remissness in
not having as yet secured permission
from the favoured beauty to enrol his
name on her card more than once.

"It serves you quite right that I have
given them all away," answered Eosabel,
pouting. " You did not care to ask for
more than one, and so I did not keep
more than one for you."

'' That's a story. What are those
blanks left on every other line all down
your card ? "

'well, if they are blanks," and a
merry laugh rippled forth from the beautiful
red lips, " they are not reserved for
you," she said mischievously.

'' That we'll see about when the time
comes. At present we will go into the
tea-room and refresh our bodies and

minds by a little rest, whilst the good
people here dance the lancers.' "

But I think I am engaged for them,"
hesitated Eosabel ; ^' and to your Colonel,
too."

"That's awkward; hut still it's na
reason you should not drink a cup of tea
in the most deeply secluded corner we
can manage to find."

"Very well;" and the conspirators
departed from the hall-room with an
ostentatious "we're going to return " air,
which would be quite sufficient of itself
to condemn them.

As they passed out they encountered a
rival pair entering in to the doorway — •
Teddy Graham and his blonde goddess.

"Alan, I want to speak to you presently,"
whispered his friend as they
passed each other.

All right ; " and Captain Bering wondered

to himself what could have brought
so serious an expression to Mr. Graham's
cheery countenance. 'the flout of a
lord' interfering again, I suppose," he
murmured, as each passed on their way.

The night wore on, and still Alan
Dering devoted his time and attention
most assiduously to the lovely Miss Du-masque.
Involuntarily he seemed to
relinquish the idea of quiet tetes-d-Utes,
though lucy he could scarce himself have
told ; but, somehow, they never seemed
to have anything to say under those circumstances,
and instead, they danced a
-sufficient number of dances with each
other to cause the eyebrows of all discreet
matrons to raise themselves in
pained surprise, and even Teddy Graham's
faith in his brother officer's anti-matrimonial
precepts sank to a very low
ebb indeed.

In the ball-room, surrounded with
crowds, glitter, and excitement, Eosabel's
beauty had an all-absorbing effect on the
man so constantly beside her ; but in
quieter moments all seemed to vanish
into thin air, and she was merely to him
the pretty plaything and sweet little
cousin of his earlier years once more.

The first deep tone of music which
had sounded in pretty Eosabel's nature
made her humbly aware of her own deficiencies
in being unable to give back the
re-echo of an answering chord ; and so
she avoided all seriousness, or what she
herself called ^^ talking grave," and
gave the rein to her light merry laughter
and bright girlish spirits, until Alan
Dering felt himself fascinated and enthralled,
not only by her marvellous
loveliness, but also by her gay sweet
tones.

^' We've danced quite often enough
together, I think," she laughed merrily,
'' and I must do some duty dances, now,
if you please ! "

'every well; then I will go and speak
to Teddy Graham, who, I believe, wants
me ; " and Alan left her side with what
Miss Dumaresque considered to he evidently
somewhat scant regret. So she
bit her rosy-red lips, and beat a " devil's
tattoo" on the floor with one little satin-shod
foot, and considered herself to the
last degree insulted and slighted ; consequently,
one of the many other adorers,
who were waiting to pick up such crumbs
of kindness as fell to their share, found
himself suddenly raised to quite an elevated
pinnacle of most unlooked-for
happiness, and the possessor of at any
rate quite sufficient crumbs to make a
fair-sized quartern loaf.

But vainly did his fair cousin gird inwardly
at lier late partner's neglect, and
quite lost were the direful and indignant
glances which she occasionally flashed at
him, alternating with the looks of melting
approval which were now being cast
at her present adorer. For Captain Dering
and Mr. Graham stood earnestly
conversing, with apparently no thought
for anything save the topic of their converse.


^' I've got some bad news for you, old
boy," began Teddy Graham, in so grave
a voice as to make Captain Dering lookup
quickly, with a hasty exclamation of —

What the devil's up now ? "

^' Well, don't you miss a certain young
man who should have been here tonight
? "

Geoff Dumaresque ? " questioned
Alan, hastily.

^* Exactly. And do you know ivhj lie
is not here ? "

'*No; I heard to-day by chance that
he had applied for a fortnight's leave and
had got it ; but what of that ? "

^^ Simply this : he has gone off with
^ the little circus-rider ' at last ! "

^^ Good God, what a fool!"

^^ Just what I think," returned Teddy,
calmly ; and unable to resist the luxury
•of saying, ^'I told you so," he added:
How about that young woman's charming
sentiments and promises noio^ my
boy?"

Alan remained silent. He felt various
at the apparent deception of which he
had been made the tool, and deeply hurt
to think of the terrible blow which the
news would prove to both the father and
sister of this foolish, hot-headed boy, who
had set the world and all its prejudices

SO much at defiance. Would they altogether
absolve himself too, he wondered,
for not having warned them in time of
the threatened danger ? And yet he had
done all that friendship could entitle
him to, in a case which apparently had
such slight evidence to support it.

^' Who hould trust a woman ? " he said
bitterly; and so savage was the glance
which reached even his blue-eyed enchantress,
as she twirled and pirouetted,
in an adjacent ^^ Ladies' Chain," that
the said damsel felt quite restored to
good humour in thinking how dire had
been the punishment inflicted by her
latent encouragement of those other
adoring worshippers.

'' Who told you of this, Teddy ? Does
every one know it ? "

Not a soul as yet. The Colonel himself
told me, and wished it to go no

farther at present, for the sake of Miss
Dumaresqiie, you see."

''I think nothing can he done until
tomorrow," said Alan decidedly. ^^ Then
I will try to find out every particular
and must go to my uncle and break it
to him. To he on the spot might
possibly save that fool of a hoy from any
rash vengeance which the old man might
take into his head."

^^ I must say, you take a deal of trouble
to stand in the way of your own prospects
! But of course you're right, old
boys, and good luck go with you!" rejoined
Teddy, making off once more to
where his blonde goddess sat in state,
surrounded by a devoted bevy of '' shawl-carriers,"
as Mr. Graham irreverently
termed her staff of admiring satellites.

Captain Dering remained where he was
for many minutes, pondering deeply over

the lately heard intelligence. Had his
cousin really married this girl ? and if
so, when and where had the marriage
taken place ? These were the problems
to he solved.

There was no one there to tell him of
n certain little church in one of the very
shabbiest and poorest parts of the great
metropolis, where, more than a month
ago, on three several Sabbaths running,
the banns had been solemnly published
between ^' Geoffry Haughton Ducked,

bachelor, of parish, Middlesex, and

Madge Lee, spinster, of Brighton, Sussex;
" and where, on one dark November
day, a plainly dressed young pair stood
before the altar, whilst the curate in
charge read out to the surrounding
clerks and pew-openers, that he 'geoffrey
Haughton" was willing to take her,
^' Madge," to be his v\^edded wife ^' until
death should them part."

But of this Captain Dering knew
nothing, and so he could only make the
wildest conjectures concerning his relative's
faiix-'pas^ the extent of which was
lost in doubt. Still, as a vivid remembrance
crossed his mind of the expression
on Madge Lee's face when she had so
bravely defied his doubts and questions
on the first and only occasion they had
ever met, — in spite of appearance, in
spite of common sense, and all other
praiseworthy reasons and things, — Alan
Dering felt that he trusted this girl yet,
in spite of all and everything. Could
thoughts but travel, how dear to at least
one proud, aching woman's heart would
have been the knowledge that the selfsame
trust which she had so prayed for
was hers, even now !

At last Captain Dering aroused himself
from his meditations and bethought him

that surely he must have missed one, if
not several, of the remaining dances for
which his name had been written down
on the beautiful Eosabel's card. Hastening
to redeem his apparent neglect, he
encountered that young lady herself just
re-entering the ball room, and one glance
at her so lately bright face, now clouded
and sad, was sufficient to convince him
that his unintentional rudeness had most
assuredly been regarded in the light of
a very capital offence indeed,

^' Forgive me, Isabel," he whispered,
taking possession of her arm in his own
and leading her off with an air of proprietorship
most galling to the young
sub-lieutenant with whom she had just
danced, and which caused muttered words
of strange import to proceed from the
mouth of that extinguished but smouldering
junior officer.

^' Come to the conservatory, dear,
where it's quiet," said Alan kindly, 'for
I have something to tell you which you
ought to know, which I viicst tell you."

Eosahel's Httle heart beat quick, and
her rosy lips trembled woefully as she
seated herself on a low sofa, shadowed
over with palms and ferns, by her cousin's
side.

Chapter 11.

A woman's yea.

Nay, too steep for hill-mounting ;
Nay, too late for cost-counting ;
This downhill path is easy, but there's no turning back""

*' Eosabel," began Alan Dering gravely,.
'^ I'm afraid it's not a very pleasant thing
I have to talk to you about ; but I can't
help it, dear."

'' No, oh no ! "

'' I can't bear to be the means of bringing
pain or sorrow to your bright little
heart, but I must speak; so forgive me,
will you?"

There's nothing to forgive," murmured
Miss Dumaresque brokenly, the

quiver in lier soft voice telling of an effort
at the calmness which was belied by her
twitching hands and lips.

^' Can she know already ? " thought her
cousin to himself, in great surprise, and
the doubt became a certainty as Eosabel
continued —

''Of course it was very wrong; and,
oh ! I am so sorry, Alan. But how could
one know you would care ? "

I not care, Eosabel ! You must be
mad, child. Why, one would hate to see
even an utter stranger, with whom one
had no connexion, playing the fool like
that ! " exclaimed Alan indignantly.

No answer from Eosabel, only a suspicious
trembling became visible in the
averted little head ; and Captain Dering
continued —

It isn't as if there were any real
strength of feeling or love to trust to ;

VOL. II. 19

but in such a case as this, where the
acquaintance has been so short, what is
one to judge by save outward appearances,
and certainly they don't tend to
give one much confidence," he added,
bitterly.

But he started in untold dismay as a
piteous sob burst forth from his companion's
lips, and she cried out passionately
—

'' How could I know that you realty
cared for me? How could I tell that I was
making you angry when those stupid boys
hould dance with me, for you never
showed it the least bit ; you looked as if
you hardly ever saw me. Oh, Alan — dear
Alan, you must forgive me ! Now that I
know you really do love me, I would goon
my bended knees to show you how
humbly I regret having made you angry,
dear!" And a warm, clinging hand is

laid on his own, whilst hot tears of
mingled sorrow and happiness roll down
his young cousin's beautiful, rose-leaf
face.

To accurately describe Captain Bering's
feelings at this supreme moment, no
words would prove sufficient. His first
concise thought is, that there are other
fools in the world besides his cousin
Geoff ; his second, sincere shame for this
thought itself. Whether he had ever
decided on ultimately marrying his pretty
cousin was strongly doubtful ; but that
he has accepted all the devotion of her
loving little heart he cannot even to himself
deny ; and truly the Fates have well
avenged her faith in him !

Being a man of the world, he reads the
girl's innocent mistake clearly enough,
and loves her all the better for the
glimpse which it has given him into her

soft, trusting heart. Being a gentleman,
he sees but one course to pursue, and so
pursues it.

^'Eosabel, little darling," he says tenderly,
^' it is for me to ask forgiveness?
not you. But don't let our first happy
hour together be marred by even the
sound of such a word as that. Let us
forget as well as forgive, and remember
only that we are happy now."

Do what he will, Alan Bering's voice
was strangely joyous for that of an
accepted bridegroom ; but what man was
ever proof against tears, when the latter
are shed for the first time ? And so he
puts a protecting arm round Isabel's
mignonne figm^e, and draws her little fair,
"fluffy" head down on to his shoulder,
and tries not to wonder what people
will think and say at sight of the swelled
eyelids and the nose of somewhat roseate

hue, which stress of feeling has implanted
on the lovely face of his inamorata.

What is this low, soft, dreamy air
which the beautiful band of the 30th
Hussars is doing full justice to in the
ball-room far away ? It steals out at the
door, it comes wailing up the corridor,
and pealing into the conservatory, where
rest the new-found fiances dreaming of
happiness to come. Its low, sad notes
reverberate in the heart of the man resting
there, until it opens to their touch
as it had not done for either a fair
woman's love or tears !

Once more he sees before him the pale
and noble face of the only true love his
life has ever known ; and as the beautiful
valse tones rise and fall with slow sad
rhythm, echoing in his ears lille some
far-off call from a spirit-land, — his mind
conjures up the vision of a dark proud

head crowned with Eucharis Hies, and
the steadfast look in the deep grey eyes
when he told her the name of the valse,
and she had said, *'I shall not forget."
Did she remember it still ? he wondered.
Where was she, — what doing ?

Over his soul there swept a very agony
of longing to see her once again, were it
only for a moment, to clasp her hand
once more, again to meet the kind true
glance of her honest eyes ; and a low
despairing murmur of ^' Mon rev, mon
rev ! " broke forth, as Alan Dering forgot
for an instant where he was, what
doing, and gave himself up to the tide
of past recollections which now swept
over him with irresistible power.

eyes, that is ^ Mon Eve ' which they
are playing now," said Isabel, sitting
up and smoothing her pretty hair; '^ and
I'm engaged for it, I'm afraid; and oh,

dear me, what did become of your Colonel
and this ^ Lancers ! '"

"■ I should think he did without it,"
answered her cousin laughingly, trying
to shake off the feeling of utter unreality
which was making itseK so forcible to his
senses at large. '^As those lancers'
took place about an hour ago, you can
hardly wish him to be wearing the willow
still, can you? "

'"■ No, certainly not. But have we
really been away so long Alan ? What
ivill everyone think and say? "

'let them think, and let them say,
my daring ! Are you not my future wife,
Eosabel?"

The girl glanced shyly up at him, but
failing completely to understand his
nature, she only wished he were less
grave, and could feel more like herself,
a very ray of sparkling, happy sunshine ?

More than one significant glance certainly
does greet them on their re-entrance
into the ball-room, and still the same feeling
of unreality clings to every thought,
word, and deed in Alan Bering's mind.
Like one in a dream he sees Isabel seat
herself beside Mary Graham, and notes
the bright smile and blush with which
she answers the latter's rather grave and
questioning look. He understands and
returns the kind congratulatory pressure
of Mary's hand when he takes her to the
carriage later on, and he observes the
many half pleased, half mischievous
glances cast in his direction by his
friends and brother officers. Even when
Teddy Graham inquires eagerly, shave
you told her?" he nods his head in
vague assent, quite forgetting the real
news which he had had to break to
her.

Aid so the night wears on. The ball
is over, the lights are out, the good-nights
have all been said, and Alan
Dering stands in his own room at last
alone, trying to think over the events of
the past hours. But after several fruitless
efforts to arrange his thoughts clearly,
and to judge deliberately of the wisdom
or folly which the record of those past
hours laid before him, he gives up the
process with savage impatience ; and
consigning the world at large, and himself
in particular, to many strange and fearsome
localities, he proceeds to take the
only really wise step under the circumstances,
and to go to bed.

A letter, lying on the table before him,
catches his eye, and he takes it up.
Giving a perplexed glance at the scratchy,
bad handwriting, smeared with blots, and
the almost illegible London postmark, he

opens and reads the missive, which is
short enough :

^' Don't think worse of me than you

can help, Captain Bering, though things

look very, very bad, I know. But honour

bright I have kept my word, and you may

tell Geoff's father and all of them that

I am not his wife, so they must forgive

him and love him still. Maybe a good

time will come some day, but — I do not

know!

"Madge Lee."

That self-same day a strange scene of
woman's courage, and man's weakness
is being played out to the bitter end.

It takes place in the small comfortable
sitting-room of a quiet London hotel,
and two actors alone are there ; one, a
woman, stands leaning her arm on the
marble chimney-piece, with a proud look

of unconquerable love and devotion on
lier face, — the other, a man, sits opposite
to her in a low arm-chair, with an expression
of mingled relief and shame on

his 0^\TL.

''I tell you it's best so, Geoff," and
the clear decisive tones are those of
Madge Lee." ^' Besides, haven't I already
^\Titten so to Captain Dering ? It's
too late to alter it now."

^'But it's so d — d hard on you Madge! "
says her boy-husband, in a weak irresolute
voice.

^'It would seem very hard to me if I
were not your wife, Geoff! " and the fire
in her dark eyes blazed up for an instant
like summer lightning. But a beautiful
soft look conquered the flame, as in a
voice shaken by deep feeling the girl
continues hurriedly: *' Oh, my dear, my
dear, what would I not do to shew you

how grateful I am to yoii for marrying
me ! Now I can stay with you, hive with
you, watch over you, never leave you,
and yet can know in my heart that in
doing so I sin against neither God norman
! "

^' There's nothing to thank me for,
Madge," and Geoffry Dumaresque's voice
sounds forced and husky, like that of one
who speaks the truth in spite of himself.

Surely now too late does the memory
reproach him of a false part played; of
banns called and of register signed it is
true, but the name given and signed
was that of Geoffry Haughton DunJceld,

'nothing to thank you for!" echoes
Madge, crossing over and laying her
hand on his shoulder. " Nothing to
thank you for in that you have stood
by me and loved me though all the world
was against you ? Aye, and far more

than that, Geoff! Is it nothlmj do you
think, that such as you should marry me,
Madge Lee ? — giving me as proud a
place as any lady in the land, and, above
all, giving me your love and honour and
respect as your true wife ? Oh, Geoff,
daring Geoff, is'nt it a small enough
sacrifice to give up my claim on the
world's respect, so only I keep yours ?
What is it to me, if I let your uncle and
all the world think evil of me, so it will
help them to make excuse for you 'I "

Geoffry Dumaresque answers no word,
and the girl continues more quietly :

I know they must of course hate me ;
and had I known earlier how wearily
sore my heart would ache some day for
yom' sake, God knows I would never
have become your wife. But I knew
nothing until Captain Dering spoke to me
that day by the sea shore, when it was
too late ! "

^^ Yes, it is too late now," assents lier
hearer slowly.

^^But Geoff, it will be all right, now
that I'm going to give np my claim to
be recognised as your wife ? " urges
Madge eagerly.

"Of course it will. But Madge," and
Geoffry Dumaresque turns his head and
looks up into her face with a strange
expression of dawning reverence on his
own, "how will you bear the sights and
insults which the world may give you,
and which I cannot shield you from ? "

T shall bear them bravely, as I would
any torture on earth, for your sake,
Geoff; " and the girl's beautiful dark face
is laid down on his own with a caress full
of the most passionate love and tenderness.


What are the words which Geoffry
Dumaresque' s good angel whispers now

in his ear — pleading for truth and honour
as if for life and death ?

For an instant he hesitates, but only
for an instant; the next, he glances up
into her face, and then lays his head
down on her breast with a deep-disown
sigh of utter happiness and content.
What matters truth or untruth, so long
as victory is his ? "

CHAPTEK III.

A MEMORY OF THE PAST.

A love large as life, deep and changeless as death,
Lay unsheathed : and that love, ever fretting its sheath.
The frail scabbard of life pierced and wore through and

through.
There are loves in man's life for which time can renew
All that time may destroy. Lives there are, though, in

love,
Which cling to one faith, and die with it ; nor move,
Though earthquakes may shatter the shrine."

Lucile.

More than two years had passed and
gone, and many a change had come and
gone with them. Directly on Geoffry
Dumaresque's departure had followed his
sister's marriage to Alan Bering; and,
hy a strange coincidence, the same newspaper
which gave a long and eulogistic
account of that most important and

fashionable ceremony, contained also the
short and simple announcement of the
death of Sir Francis Kuthven at Nice.

A little later, and death's hand touched
one more victim, and John Dumaresque,
of Beechwarden, was carried to his long
home, deeply and deservedly regretted."

When his son, who had been hastily
summoned home from abroad in time to
take his last farewell of a most kind and
indulgent father, stood, by virtue of his
sad right as chief mourner, beside the old
man's coffin, and listened to the solemn
words: ^'We give Thee hearty thanks,
for that it hath pleased Thee to deliver
this our brother out of the miseries of
this sinful world ; " for the first time, perhaps,
he realized how great in truth was
his own especial cause for thanksgiving.
Not a word had the old man ever heard
of Madge Lee ; not a syllable had been

VOL. II. ' 20

breathed to him of his son's folly; and
so he died at peace with all the world,
and with his hand close in that son's
clasp, and Madge Lee felt that her renunciation
had not been in vain.

As soon as all things could be arranged,
Geoffry Dumaresque returned once more
to Italy ^^for just six months or so," he
said vaguely, in answer to any questions
from anxious friends ; and his name soon
died away and was forgotten, as those
months sped by, and no sign of any
return home was evinced by the new
master of Beechwarden.

It was a hot, sultry day in May, far
too hot for so early in the year, and Alan
Dering turned in under the cool archway
which shadows the entrance into Burlington
House, with a sigh of relief at
his temporary escape from Phoebus's all
too scorching rays.

^' It'll be hotter still inside that Pandemonium
! " groaned Captain Dering discontentedly,
as his glance rested on the
crowd of carriages which were ^^ taking
up " and '' setting down " before the
entrance of the great building containing
our yearly national contributions to the
fine arts.

But Alan was honestly fond of pictures,
and of all classes of drawing, from
the highest to the lowest; and so not
even any consideration for his personal
comfort could deter him from a visit to
the well covered walls of the Royal
Academy.

After tacitly surrendering his pet ,
though not without some
misgivings as to ever beholding that
treasured article again, and after slowly
mounting the dark staircase which leads
to the realms of art above, he at

last found himself, catalogue in hand,
solemnly entering upon the business
before him. "'No. 1 — Portrait of Mrs.
Plantagenet Jones.' By Jove ! I hope
Plantagenet Jones had a will of his
own, else he must have had a rough
time of it with that lady, to judge by
her affable countenance ! " soliloquised
Captain Dering, after a careful study
of the dame in question's portraiture »
'^'No. 3 — The Alps, from the balcony

of the Belle Vue Hotel at Gr , a

sketch taken after sunset.' Hem ! and
after dinner too, I should say, to judge
by the apparently rosy view which the
artist took of life. 'No. 4 — Apollo
and the Nymphs.' Well, even in this

weather "

'' Halloa ! Dering, who would have
thought of meeting you here?" and
Alan's pictorial studies and meditations

were suddenly interrupted by the
arrival of a genial, if somewhat boisterous,
ai-tis friend.

'^Do come and act showman to me,
my dear fellow," implored Alan languidly.
^' This heat is trying to even the 
constitution that I can boast
of, and it '11 save me a world of trouble
if you'll come with me and tell me what
I ought to admire, though I reserve to
myself the right of doing so in reality
or not."

'well, of course you've seen Ans-dell's
' Shorn Lamb, with the wind
untempered,^ Mrs. Butler's ' Out at
Bul's Eun,' and Pointer's 'Gilded
Innocence,' haven't you? No? Then
you must come at once to see those !
And there are a few very charming
pictures by nobody knows who, which
are quite worth looking at, though the

colouring is too vivid and inharmonious
and the whole work of course crude."

Before many minutes had passed
Captain Dering was fain to confess that
he had made a sad mistake in enlisting
the assistance of his active and energetic
friend in 'doing" the pictures properly;
and involuntarily he began ere long to
turn an almost deaf ear to the copious
flow of criticism and information which
the latter dealt forth to him unmercifully
and without ceasing.

'' What a wonderful expression that
face has ! " murmured Alan sotto voce
at last, attentively studying a half-length
picture which hung in an obscure
corner of one of the rooms.

'that? Oh yes, that is one of the
pictures painted by ' nobody knows who,'
which I told you of; only in this case
one does know who painted it, for she

belongs to your world-par excellence y
the world of rank and fashion," returned
Alan's friend, with his jolly Bohemian
laugh.

The picture under discussion, obviously
intended for a sketch of Joan of Arc, is,
though fanciful, powerful in the extreme.
The foreground consists of a bright ^
riante landscape in sunny France ; and
in the centre of the picture, on a low
ruined wall, rests the tall upright form
of the Lorraine peasant-gui. In her
hand she holds a shepherd's staff, but
involuntarily she holds it as would one
who grasps a sword; and on her grand
heroic face there gleams an unearthly
light, "the light that never was on sea
or land."

The glorious sad eyes, with their rapt,,
devotional expression, half woman's and
half saint's, are fixed on the far-distant

horizon, where the first icays of dawn
begin to show; golden bright do they
appear at first, Hke a glorious promise
of might and honors, receding in the
far distance to a fierce, fiery red, which
involuntarily recalls the vision of a
burning stake and of a martyr's crown;
and, faintly looming through that lurid
colour, tower high the spires of Notre
Dame de Rouen. Underneath the picture
stand only four words : ^' The Dawn
of Fate."

^' Yes, the depths of passion and yet of
asceticism in that face are simply marvellous,"
commented the artist, taking a
critical survey of the picture which had
apparently so fascinated his friend. '' It
gives one a rare idea of the brave, devoted,
but self-sacrificed woman-hero, the
^ maiden warrior ' whom our countrymen
^ tried as by fire ! ' "

'' Who is the picture by ? " asked Alan,
unaccountably interested in that strangely
pure, fanatic face.

^^ By the young Lady Kuthven."

'^ Who and Captain Dering felt quite
surprised himself at the vehemence of his
sudden interest.

^^Lady Kuthven. She is a young-widow.
I think her husband died somewhere
abroad about two years ago, and
she Ives in London now. All the time
she was abroad, and whilst in mourning,
she studied painting almost night and
day ; but this is the first picture of hers
which has ever been honoured by being
hung here. It's a picture which is full of
faults, but it possesses something which
to my thinking condoned nearly every
fault — and that is power."

'rand I fancied she could not feel''
muttered Alan to himself, taking one

more farewell glance at the brave, strong
face of the warrior maiden, whose weird,
sad eyes seemed looking and longing for
the far-off future, which to her would so
surely bring a deathless fame.

Absently enough did Captain Dering
continue to make the round of each
pictured wall, and, for once, it was from
a sheer sense of duty and not one whit of
pleasure that he completed his task. So
much in fact had his thoughts wandered
from the present, that on arriving at the
end of the last room, he mechanically
sauntered into the very first one once
more, and was unconsciously just about
to begin his torn' all over again, when
a hand was laid on his shoulder, and
Teddy Graham's voice broke in on his
meditations.

^^Why, Alan, you look a bit moonstruck
to-day. What's the matter, old
boy?"

'^ Nothing," answered Alan Dering
curtly, for with him as with most mena
sentimental frame of mind invariably
produced a correspondingly vile temper.

*' Then for heaven's sake don't look so
sadly cheerful, for it's enough to give one
the darkest of blues to look at your affable
expression of countenance. Now, if you'd
had the broiling which we poor devils had
in the Long Valley this morning, you'd
have some reason to look glum ! It quite
weighed on my spirits, so I put myself
into the train for London town."

^'You don't look exhausted, Teddy,"
answered his brother officer laughing :
^'but I know that this morning was not
altogether suitable for the 'great lone
land ' of the Long Valley."

I assure you it was worse than even
you have ever seen it. The sun seemed
hotter, the dust more choking, the colonel

more fussy, and my boots tighter than
ever ! " moaned Mr. Graham, refusing to
he comforted.

'^ Well, forget it now, my dear hoy, if
you can, for we'll both have a benefit of
it again on Monday. Come and look

at the little house in L Street, which

I have just taken for two months, and
give me your opinion on it."

^^ Taken a house up here? Oh, I forgot
though, you've been given leave for a bit,
haven't you, after next week ? "

^^ Yes ; and as Eosabel wished to see
more of her friends than she possibly
could at Aldershot, you know, I thought
it easier to take a house for a few weeks
than to live in an hotel."

*how does Mrs. Dering like the idea
of going out to India in the autumn ? "

^' Oh, she doesn't mind anything,"
answered Alan quietly, and there was

perhaps a shade of impatience in his voice
as he spoke.

'^ Where shall we go this evening?"
resumed Mr. Graham after a pause. ^^ If
it wasn't so long and so serious I should
rather like to go to the opera to-night,"
he added doubtfully.

'' Well, let's go ; what is it to-night ? "

*' Only the everlasting old * Trovatore' ;
but it's such a comfort to know all the
tunes, for you see one can feel quite
at home then."

^^ Yes, I see. Very well, we'll attend
at Co vent Garden to-night, so that's
settled ; and now, here we are at my new
mansion."

Chapter lY.

NON TI Cedar DI ME."

Meanwhile, I was thinking of my first love,

As I had not been thinking of aught for years,
Till over mine eyes there began to move
Something that felt like tears.

And I swear, as I thought of her thus, in that hour,
And of how, after all, old things were best,
*****
I turned and looked. She was sitting there,

In a dim box over the stage ; and drest
In the dress that I knew — with that full soft hair,
And that jasmin in her breast.

*' But the smell of that jasmin flower !
And that music ! and the way
That voice rang out from the donjon tower
Non ti scorner di me,

Non ti scorner di me ! ' "

Yerdi's music was ringing through the
house, when Captain Dering and his
friend made their way, stepping dexterously
over trains and toes innumerable,

to their allotted stalls. ^'La Diva's"
brilliant soaring voice was holding her
hearers spell-bound as usual, and Mademoiselle
S 's glorious deep contralto

filled up each pause like a distant clarion's
cal.

For many minutes Alan Dering looked
neither to the right nor to the left, but
sat drinking in those exquisite tones withall
the devotion of a passionate lover of
music. The face of the 'joan of Arc,"
which he had that day seen in the
Academy, haunted him strangely still, he
knew not why ; and it was with a feeling
of real impatience at his own folly that
he aroused himself to answer his companion's
comments, as the curtain fell at
last.

"There's nothing like music to make
one feel full of soul," observed Mr. Graham,
pathetically.

*^ There's nothing like a good dinner —
such as I'll admit yon gave us to-night,
Teddy — to make one feel on good terms
with all the world, my dear hoy," returned
Alan, satirically.

^^ Now, that's so like you, Alan ! Just
as I'm getting sentimental and working
myself up to the proper frame of mind
for a tragedy, you go and snub me," said
Mr. Graham, much injured.

But his companion neither answers nor
turns his head. His eyes are steadily
fixed on the stage-box nearest to them,
and there is an odd look of constrained
anxiety on his face.

^' Teddy," he says slowly, 'scan you
tell me who it is that sits in the lowest
box over there ? " and the speaker's head
gives a slight nod towards the place mentioned,
though he never once removes his
gaze from the locality in question.

'^ Oh. yes, it's Lady Borrowdale, the
biggest magnate round Grahamstown.
She was the old earl's second wife,
and he left her everything — castles
and country houses without end. Did
you ever see such diamonds as she's
got?"

''No, no; I don't mean her, I know
her ; but who is that with her, a tall
woman in black, sitting almost behind
the curtain, and facing this way ? ' '

Even as he asks the question, the
wearer of the black robe leans forward
into the light and gives him a quiet smile
of greeting, and Alan Dering and Cecil
Euthven have met again at last.

Half an hour later, Mr. Graham, much,
against his will, found himself seated
beside the somewhat overpowering form of
the Lady Borrowdale; whilst a little in
the background were his friend and Lady

VOL. II. 21

Euthven, actively engaged in trying to
find the broken threads of their lives to
rejoin them once more.

^'I don't know how I recognised you,
Lady Kuthven," Alan was saying in his
low quiet voice ; ^* for you are much
altered."

It would not have been like Cecil to
make any answer which implied a desire
for complimentary speeches, and so she
merely said :

^^You see, I am getting on in life; I
am eight and twenty now, and when you
knew me first I was only a child, or at
least a child in everything except years,
perhaps."

Could this beautiful, self-possessed
woman really be the shy, proud Cecil of
days gone by ? Was it possible that the
clear soft tones which were stealing into
his mind like an intoxicating draught,

were the same which had so coldly said
him 'nay" long years ago? And the
little white hand lying idly on her lap,
was that the ideal of all his dreams, long,
long ago ?

Silent and perturbed he sat there, his
gaze riveted on the face of the woman
he had once loved so well, and with the
terrible conviction growing each moment
stronger in his heart that his true first
love must prove his only one, for ever and
aye.

Sad and solemn proceeds the music of
the "Miserere," — the clear high voice of
"La Diva" ringing out Hke a silver bell
at eventide. And as the answering
notes of "A che la morte " peal forth
in the tenor's sweet full tones, Alan
Dering unconsciously envies the power
which music gives to breathe foii:h a
heart's wild sad longing in glorious,

LIBRARY

passionate sounds that can reach to the-very
hearts and souls of men.

*^ Non ti scorner di me ! " The notes
ring in his ears with a strange significance.
Has she forgotten, he wonders ?
But at this instant Cecil Kuthven turns
and meets his eyes at last, and her own
fall with a half shy, and yet half-proud
look of gladness, such as for sure he had
never seen there in days gone by. But
with the wild glad thought ^' he has not
forgotten!" came another, driving out
the first with loyal and sorrowful justice :
^^ she does not know all, it is for me to tell
her!"

He thought of pretty Isabel, his wife,
whom he had tried so honestly to honour
and to cherish, but for whom his love had
proved so fleeting.

(Poor little Isabel ! even now she is
sitting in Mrs. Graham's drawing-room,

entertaining that lady and her daughter
with an account of the dresses and
bonnets purchased by herself that day,
and in which her innocent soul delights
to revel, and here was an inexorable
Fate advancing down on her and hers
with steady relentless strides.)

But Fate was doomed to defeat this
time, vanquished by a truer, purer, and
higher power than its own, the might of
^' barren honour ! "

"Lady Euthven," and Cecil starts at
the tone of the speaker's voice, "may I
some day soon introduce you to my
wife?"

Your wife ? I did not know, I had
not heard;" the pleading look in the
sorrowful eyes which meet her own,
agitates her strangely, but she reads the
meaning at once with all her usual clearness
and truth, and it is in the kind

frank tone of old that lie goes on to
say:

'' Oh yes, I should like it very much
indeed ; when can it be ? "

^' Are you engaged tomorrow nighty
Lady Kuthven?" interposes Teddy
Graham, who has overheard both the
question and answer, and has drawn his
own conclusions from the same ; ^4f not,
do dine with tiny mother, for Alan and his
wife are coming too. I know that my
mother would be so glad to get a chance
of seeing you again, Lady Euthven, for
she is always talking of you, and she
shall send you a note in all proper form
tomorrow morning," urges Mr. Graham,
with a tact for which his brother officer
blesses him most heartily in his own
mind.

*^ I shall be delighted to come," says
Cecil frankly. '' That is, if you are sure

I shall not prove one woman too many
for the symmetry of your mother's dinner-table?"


'' I can answer for my mother," returns
that long-suffering lady's much-indulged
son, and so the matter is concluded.

*'I have been looking at your picture
to-day. Lady Kuthven, in the Academy,"
said Alan Dering a little later on, when
another fall of the curtain gave him a
chance of further conversation.

'eyes? Wasn't it good of them to
take such an amateur's picture ? Do you
like it?"

'* Like it ! It has haunted me all day,
I can't forget that girl's look. Where
and how did you learn to paint such an
expression on any mortal face ? ' '

"I don't know," said Cecil dreamily.
** I think I just thought and thought it
all out, what it would be Hke to feel a

great heaven-sent power growing in one,
and a still greater determination to brave
all tidings in life and in death, sooner
than prove disloyal to the might of that
glorious power! "

^^ You have succeeded," answered Alan,
in the short concise words of one who
feels that asseverations are not needed.

^' Not to my own satisfaction. In faces,
as in most other things, I suppose, we all
have our ideal, and we all fail to reach
it!"

The deep tone of sadness in which she
spoke was surely little like the Cecil
Euthven of days gone by; it unconsciously
revealed the secret of yet
another soul's search for ^^ the blue
rose," which is as uncontrollable as it is
vain.

^^ Where do you live in town? May
I come and see you ? " was Alan Bering's

sole response ; intuitively he read the
longing for kindly sympathy, which had
caused that almost bitter cri de coeur to
break forth.

'ein C Street, I have a small house

of my own there. But I work very hard
at my painting, and am often at Kensington
for whole days together, copying
heads and figures in the Gallery there,
as studies."

'then you must let me know when
I shall find you at home, Lady Euthven ;
for I am not anxious to stop short at
depositing a little piece of pasteboard at
yom door."

Cecil laughed, and promised in course
of time to appoint an hour when she
should be at home, and as the opera was
about concluded. Captain Bering and his
friend proceeded to escort the two ladies
down the crowded staircase to their

As many a glance of unconcealed admiration
was levelled at the tall, graceful
figure, and beautiful high-bred face
of the young Lady Euthven, Alan Dering
felt his soul thrill painfully with the
thought, that to any one of those careless
hearts she might some day be all in all,
whereas to his tenderly-loving and sorrowing
one she must for ever be a
stranger.

*well, Alan, I hope you think I did
my duty to-night," grumbled Teddy,
savagely, as arm-in-arm they pursued
their way together. another time, if
I am expected to make one of a partie
carries' I hope you'll provide me with
some one a little more entertaining to
devote myself to. Lady Borrowdale hasher
good points I've no doubt ; but she's
as ugly as sin, and not half so pleasant ! ' ''
wound up Mr. Graham aggrievedly.

'cheer up, Teddy. Everything lias
gone wrong with you to-day, I think.
Why, man, there's many a worse world
than this one of ours ! " and Alan
laughed out gaily.

'rit's not the world itself, it's the
people in it that annoy me," answered
Mr. Graham, philosophically. " But
you're in rare good spirits to-night, my
boy," he added, looking critically at his
friend's usually quiet face.

"Yes; I feel a little off my head, I
think ; " and Alan laughed as lightly as
most gamblers do when playing for the
highest stakes.

Take care that you don't lose your
head," said Teddy Graham, with quiet
significance, standing still on the steps
of the club to give more force to his
words. "Alan, it's no business of mine,
I know, but there are women and women

in this world; some, one remembers for
about a week, — but some, one remembers
for many a year ! Now let's have a
brandy and soda."

CHAPTER V.

Diana WAKEN SLEEPING DOGS.

"However, when I reflect upon this woman, I do not
know whether in the main I am the worse for having loved
her : whenever she is recalled to my imagination, my youth
returns, and I feel a forgotten warmth in all my veins. This
affliction in my life has streaked all my conduct with a
softness, of which I should otherwise have been incapable.
It is owing, perhaps, to this dear image in my heart, that
I am apt to relent, that I easily forgive, and that many
desirable things are grown into my temper, which I should
not have arrived at by better motives than the thought of
being one day hers, I am pretty well satisfied such a
passion as I have had is never well cured." — Spectator,

*' Lady Ruthven," was announced in
solemn tones, to the large assembly-gathered
together under Mr. Graham's
hospitable roof on the following night,
and many curious eyes were turned in
the direction of the new arrival.

Mary Graham, advancing cordially to
greet her, felt profoundly struck with the
change which a few years of life had
wrought in the unsophisticated maiden
'^of the North Countries," whom she so
well remembered coming to her first
party at Grahamstown House, now so
long time ago.

Cecil Kuthven never wore colours, but
she had given up wearing positive mourning,
and her pure white dress, with no
ornaments save one large diamond star
at the throat, suited singularly well with
the pale face, dark hair, and deep grey
eyes of the wearer.

'^ Oh, yes, indeed, I do remember Gras
and all your kindness to me
there ! " said Cecil, heartily, in answer to
Miss Graham's cordial welcome; and
then she stood there for a minute, the
unconscious centre of interest to everyone,

acknowledging each fresh introduction
with a graceful and courteous
smile, and shaking hands brightly with
old Mr. Graham and his granddaughters,
who clustered round her.

^^ Mrs. Dering — Lady Euthven," said
Mary Graham's voice in introduction,
and Cecil found herder face to face with
Kosahel.

Her first impression was one of profound
admiration for Mrs. Bering's perfection
of pink and white loveliness, set
off as it was by the delicate pale blue
shade of one of her most bewitching
toilettes ; the next instant she seemed
to read through and through the vapid
inanity of poor little Isabel's mind and
character, and a soft look of pity stole
over her face as she frankly extended
her hand to her new acquaintance, with
the courteous words :

"Your husband and myself are old
friends, Mrs. Dering, so I hope you will
some day consider me the same ? "

And Isabel lost her heart then and
there to the beautiful new-found friend,
and forthwith presented her with all the
trust and respect of her kindly shallow
little soul, a trust which was destined
never hereafter to be shaken, for verily
was it founded upon a rock.

Alan found himself sitting opposite to
Cecil at dinner, and in spite of the attentions
expected of him on one side by
a languid beauty, and paid to him on
the other by 'tune jolie laide'' he found
many opportunities of listening to the
conversation of his vis-a-vis.

After all, she seemed the Cecil of olden
days once more ; frank and true in
speech, kindly and courteous in manner,
and withal, a face which embodied the

ideal of time-honoured words : *' sans
peiir et sans reproche."

*' She is a woman who would make a
rare friend," thought Alan, watching
how her face changed and strong earnestness
of purpose crept into her eyes
as she spoke with Mr. Graham of the
^^ dreams forgone," and ^^ deeds forlorn,"
such as the daily records of each newspaper
so often hiring forth.

And as he so thought, a bright vision
crossed his mind of a future, in which
this woman should share all his thoughts
and feelings, should guide him, strengthen
him, help him to redeem his hitherto idle
and wasted life, and be unto him the
guardian angel of which he had so often
vaguely dreamed. But would this be for
her good ? And yet, save when the words
^' non ti scorner di me " had seemed to
call up an answering tenderness for one

VOL. II. 22

instant into the far-away grey eyes (that
instant ere she knew all), he could not
certainly call to mind any wise or potent
reason why Cecil Euthven should wish
to gainsay him her friendship.

And so, when dinner was over, and the
superior and inferior sex were once more
gathered together, he adroitly established
himself on a sofa beside Lady Euthven,
and ere long they were talking merrily
and happily of Ercildoun and old Davie
and Janet ; or conjuring up reminiscences
of Cecil's first appearance in society, on
that never-to-be-forgotten day of the
garden party at Grahamstown House.

^^You are not so much altered since
those days as I at first thought, Lady
Euthven," said her companion.

No ? And yet I must have altered a
good deal too," answered Cecil quietly.

^^ Why so''

shave I not lived my life out?" responded
Lady Euthven gravely.

'^ No ! People think so sometimes,
when they feel down in their luck, or
lonely and sorrowful perhaps ; but it's
not true. It is only those who may
never look on sunshine again that have
the right to feel they have lived out their
lives, and to cry out that utter darkness
covered all."

^'But how can any one tell, when the
sun has set and sunk below the sea,
whether it ever in this world may rise
again? "

One can't tell for certain, but all the
laws of nature, philosophy, and commonsense
make one believe that it will."

Cecil was gravely dreaming and pondering
over his words, and her thoughts
had wandered to the past. Truly her
married life had been a great failure.

The ^^puir delicate boy" soon degenerated
into a fretful and selfish, invalid,
with whose heart and mind she had no
thought or feeling in common. And so,
ere long, the little love there ever had
been was merged into a deep and profound
pity ; and though no more patient
or kinder nurse could have been found on
the face of the earth, than the true and
faithful wife who tended young Sir
Francis Euthven through the last few
years of his ill-fated existence, it were
impossible to deny that the depth and
strength of loving which such a nature
as Cecil's was capable of feeling, had
never for one single instant been
awakened in her heart.
Her companion continued speaking :
'for some of us in this world, the sun
may rise again in all his glory ; for many
it can but set ! "

The tone of the speaker's voice, more
than his words, perhaps, unconsciously
told that here was another searcher after
the

blue flower, which Brahmins say
Blooms nowhere but in Paradise,"

and Cecil's kind heart was instantly
touched, and in her low, clear voice she
said :

*' Do you remember my once telling
you in my young, rash ignorance, that
there must be life hidden somewhere in
the world, and it should not be wasted ? '
I have become a sadder and a wiser
woman since then, but I hold to the old
faith still. Have you not a profession to
work at, and many interests in life to
work for ? So long as this is the case,
your life is one to be envied."

Envied ! Well, perhaps. Lady Kuth-
even," answered Alan quietly. Then,

after a slight pause, lie looked up at lier
with the question : '^ I want to"ask yon a
great favour, may I ? "

'^Of course."

'^ May I come and talk to you sometimes,
quietly and as a friend? I don't
think I am a * society man,' orjof much
good in a crowd at the best of times ; but
if it will not bore you too much, I should
like to come and be lectured over my indolence
and all other crimes by you .^ In
fact I'll invent fresh ones for the pleasure
of having them exorcised, if you will
consent?"

^^Of course I'll consent," laughed Cecil,
and added honestly: ''I also should like
you for a friend, because we're such old
acquaintances, and you are about the
only person left in the world who can
talk to me of Ercildoun and the past life
there."

** You don't regret that life, surely ?
You speak almost as if you did."

*' I wouldn't dare say so to any one
else, for they'd think me crazy, but I do
regret it sometimes. I don't mean to say
that it wasn't miserably lonely, and those
long cold winters, when I couldn't live
out of doors, were inexpressibly dreary
perhaps ; but, I don't know how it is,
that Hfe seemed ^ life ' to me far more
than this one — this is ' existence.' "

^' You'd hate it now, though, if you
had to live that life again. Perhaps the
secret lay in the fact that then you knew
no better."

^^I dare say that was it," agreed Lady
Euthven frankly. ^' But if ever I am ill,
or lie awake at night (not that this happens
often, for I work too hard), I seem to be
haunted by the cry of the sea-birds, and
the thundering of each wave on the

rocks, as they resounded night and day
under the windows of the great hall at
Ercildoun, don't you remember ? I can
never get that sound out of my ears,
somehow."

As she spoke in her dreamy low voice,
her hearer's fancy conjured up a vision
of that grand old ruined ^* castle by the
sea," on its spray-covered cliff, and with
wreaths of mist and sea-fog shrouding
ifs gloomy turrets, as he had last seen
it on the morning of his departure from
Ercildoun, and involuntarily he exclaimed,

No ; it's not a place to be very easily
forgotten ! "

Cecil looked pleased, and said eagerly :
^' If you too can understand this, you may
imagine how its memory must cling tome,
who lived there nearly all my life ! "

'^ Yes, I can. But surely you are
happier here. Lady Euthven, with thousands

of friends and many pleasures, than
you could have felt there, where you had
neither ? I know you too well to think
that these alone could satisfy a nature
with such energy as yours ; hut even work,
your painting for instance, all this is also
to he had in your present life."

^^ Work ! Ah yes, there you are right.
My painting is all in all to me ; hut
friends who are one's friends ? "

^'I should have thought that you had
only too many," said Alan, half bitterly.

^^ Indeed I have not. I have many
acquaintances whom I am very fond of,
and very kind and good they are to me
too ; hut the fact that they would perhaps
do me any ^ good turn ' they could, just as
surely as I should do the same to them,
does not constitute what in my mind is
friendship."

'^ Tell me your ideal of it."

'' Briefly this : nothing but united
trust. Half the friendships of the world
are broken by simple want of faith ; and
where there is often found endless pity,
love, admiration, or sympathy, there still
too often lacks faith."

'' Faith gets broken, sometimes ! "

^* The faith of lovers may, but never
that oi friends'" said Cecil in her clear
decisive voice. ^^ Jealousy, coldness,
pride, fickleness, all these may come
between us and our heart's ideal; but
real true friends should, like Gallic, ' care
for none of those things.' "

^'- You rank friendship higher than
love or any other feeling, then ? "

*^ Yes," answered Cecil slowly ; ''• I
think I do. If one cared very much
about anybody, and they did the same
you see it would be so easy to make
sacrifices for them and to forgive all their

faults, for one would get the same in
return, all fair. But any day one maybe
called upon to do all this for a friend
and yet to receive no thanks, and often
to know oneseK even quite forgotten."

^^You speak sadly. Lady Kuthven; I
should have thought that any one you
honoured with your friendship would
scarcely prove to have a short memory."
And Teddy Graham's words came back
vividly to Alan's mind, when he had
said, ^ some women one remembers for a
week, and some for many a year.' "

** True enough," he thought inwardly
and then said : ^^ I quite agree with you
in all you've said as to that much abused
feeling called friendship. Lady Euthven.
I, too, think that it stands highest of all
in some ways, for where there is no
passion, there is no unrest ; where there
is no love, there should be no jealousy ;

and where there is a thorough and yet
exacting faith, there can be no broken
Vows. Well, will you promise me, Lady
Kuthven, that if ever I can prove myself
worthy of being your friend, you will try
me?"

"I will try you now," answered Cecil
quickly, and then hesitated, as if about to
say more, when Mary Graham came upto
them with some photographs of Gras
and its surrounding scenery,
for her visitors' inspection, and no more
was said. Only when later on Alan
Dering escorted Cecil to her carriage he
simply remarked —

*' I shall claim your promise soon, Lady
Kuthven, so I hope you will not forget
it."

Chapter VI.

Since all that I can ever do for thee
Is to do nothing, this my prayer must be,
That thou may'st never guess or see
The all-endured this nothing-done costs me."

The Last Wish.

Several weeks passed, and the Derings
were still in town, Alan running down
occasionally to Aldershot when a stern
fate called upon him to remember his
duties as a soldier.

Eosabel was in the seventh heaven of
bliss, and inspected and pmxhased garments
and millinery of every description
throughout the livelong day. The impending
departure to India of her husband's

regiment gave her an extra excuse
for a careful selection of *^ outfit ; " and
the patience of Lady Euthven, to whom
she had taken a strong fancy, and of even
good-tempered Mary Graham, was often
sorely taxed to preserve an unflagging
interest in the narrative of each fresh
acquisition to her wardrobe.

And yet Kosabelwas so soft and pretty,
and so charming, that no one had the
heart to gainsay her the sympathy and
applause she craved ; least of all young-lady
Euthven, who, to her kindly liking
for the little soft-hearted soul, added a
most genuine admiration for her marvellous
pink and white loveliness.

She had also drawn a rough portrait of
Mrs. Dering, which pleased that little
lady much, for she saw herself etherealised
therein into a positive dream of beauty.
The large and somewhat vacant blue

eyes had been deepened and brightened
by skilful touches of the painter's brush ;
the beautiful complexion had full justice
done unto it; and the crisp, ^^ fluffy "
hair had been artistically reduced into a
crown of soft golden braids, the whole
completed by a fanciful dress of cloudy
grey and white. One day it was destined
to take its place in a certain picture on
which most of Cecil's time and interest
was at present centred — an artist's realization
of Tennyson's ^' Dream of Fair
Women" — and Eosabel's sweet face was
to be immortalized on canvas as

that Rosamond, whom men call fair,

If what I was I be."

In spite of the quiet life which Lady
Euthven led, generally working or studying
hard at the occupation which to her
was now almost a profession, Alan Bering
saw more of her than is the fate of most
friends during the London season.

By dint of carefully avoiding those
hours when he felt sure that a conclave
of visitors would be assembled in Lady
Kuthven's cool, shady drawing-room, he
was perforce admitted by virtue of old
acquaintance to her far hotter and decidedly
more uncomfortable painting-room ;
and many an hour he spent there talking
to her whilst she worked on steadily,
never once lifting her eyes from her easel,
and therefore perfectly ignorant of the
unconsciously steady observance which
her visitor took of each change of expression
on her ever varying face. Now
grave, now gay, now bright, now tired,
now laughing, now sad; there was no
single look on that face which Alan
Dering had not learnt by heart ; and yet,
with that strange soul-blindness so often
to be observed where the heart's innermost
depths have been sounded, he

honestly thought that what he felt for
this woman was true friendship alone,
whereas it was in reality love so pure and
full of reverence, that scarce any earthly
passion was as yet mingled with it ; and
so his eyes were blinded that he could
not see the rock on to which his ship was
drifting.

There are only two sorts of love in this
world ; one, light, and gay, and transient,
and much the happiest, hut which ends
as all such things end, in either bitterness
and loss of respect on loth sides, or else
in a careless indifference which redeems
nothing; the other, strong and deep and
lasting, alle from sheer truth and strength
to forgive and forget when wanted, and
to see gold instead of glitter through the
might of the old faith.

To Cecil Kuthven, also, the danger was
all invisible. Her frank, independent

VOL. ir. 23

nature made her naturally less subservient
to les convenances than many a
more worldly woman would have been ;
and to her the friendship of an old friend
seemed simply a matter of course, even
though that friend had once upon a time
tried to turn this friendship into love.
But Cecil was one of those women who
can sometimes forget their beauty, their
power over mankind, and even their
vanity, and try to prove attractive and
pleasant companions for the simple pleasure
of knowing that they are so. She
was conscious, too, that the last few years
had done much in forming and bringing
out what powers nature might have
granted to her ; for let the mind be
whose it may, it cannot but be strengthened,
though it must be saddened, by
intercourse with the world.

Conversing with clever men or women

is like the whetstone wliicli polishes the
steel ; the quality of the metal is already
there, its shape may be beyond all praise,
but it serves to sharpen and to smooth
the steel, and so render the whole work
more perfect.

Therefore, Lady Euthven accepted in
all honesty and earnestness the position
of Alan Bering's friend and oftentimes
companion, especially as Eosabel too
made her her confidante to a far greater
extent than even her husband did, and
many a friendly evening did all three
spend together at each other's houses.
But the Derings' sojourn in town had
almost come to an end now, and Cecil
too ere long was going to the north for
several weeks, with the Grahams; so
already the half melancholy pleasure of
"last days" had begun to shed a chastened
shadow over each happy hour.

Captain Dering happened on one of
these days to be lunching with some
friends living in the South Kensington
district, and whilst he was there, a discussion
arose anent the painter of some
picture exhibited in a certain Gallery
close by. Some said it was by Jones,
others said by Robinson, whilst the most
ignorant, and therefore the most obstinate
connoisseur there, swore to its being
the work of that rising young artist,.
Brown.

*' It's only a step to the Gallery, let's
go and see it for ourselves," suggested
the wisest and most energetic of the
party, and so a straggling start was
effected, and without quite knowing how,
Alan found himself straying with the rest
into the dingy and rather cheerless rooms
apportioned to art in the Gallery.

Being fond of pictures, he devoted his

attention for some time exclusively to
the walls, and with careful courtesy tried
not to interrupt the work of the sundry
artists who were here and there engaged
in copying some especial painting.

As he stept backwards, with his eyes
heed on a picture that had been most
unkindly '^ skies" almost out of reach of
human eyesight, the sound of a weary
little sigh which seemed strangely familiar,
caught his ear, and looking hastily
round he saw Cecil Euthven standing
before an easel, and studying attentively
the picture on it, quite unconscious of
his own or any one else's observation.

Her hat was pushed back from her
forehead, leaving the pale, clear-cut face
fully exposed to view, and a vexed, disappointed
expression was on it as she
glanced from her easel to the wall and
back again many times, beating an impatient

tattoo with the obviously offending
paint-brush.

Alan Dering watched her for long, but
she neither moved nor turned her head
save to take a cursory glance at the party
of whom were his late companions, and
whose somewhat noisy remarks and criticisms
only served to deepen the look of
vexation on her expressive face.

^' You look perplexed, Lady Kuthven,"
and Cecil started at the sound of Alan's
familiar but unexpected voice.

Could he feel otherwise than rejoiced
as he noted the [sudden brightening of
her face, and the frank look of joy in her
eyes as she exclaimed —

^^ Oh, I'm so glad you've come ! I've
been working and working all the morning,
and have just arrived at the stage
of being thoroughly disheartened with
my work, and 'perhaps you can help me."

'what is it?" asked Alan, watching
her face and not the picture as he
spoke.

'' Well, it's a sketch I am making for
the principal figure in my picture, ' The
Dream,' you know." Alan nodded ; did
he not know by heart each subject of
interest to hers? 'rand I thought I
could idealise that lovely face on the wall
there, into hers who said of herself,

I had great beauty : ask thou not my name :
-^ * * *

Where'er I came
I brought calamity."

"And so 3'ou have. Lady Kuthven,"
answered Alan, turning his attention at
last to her picture ; " that's the most
unearthly loveliness I ever saw, and one
which I could easily imagine might
bring calamity.' "

"Do you really like it? Oh, I'm so
glad," exclaimed Cecil, eagerly. "You

see, I had looked and looked at it so
often and so long, that I couldn't make
out at last whether the face itself had
grown idiotic or whether I had ! "

^^ Then I should say it was quite time
that you gave up painting for to-day, and
went home," answered Captain Bering
decisively. ^^ Really, one would think
you were working to support a whole
tribe of aged and bedridden parents, to
see the way you devote all your energies
to daubing on canvas."

'now don't scold me;" and Cecil's
sweet smile softened his indignation ina
moment ; and he watched her gather
up her brushes and paints, and prepare
for departure, with the strange dumb
fascination of a dog as it watches each
movement of its best loved friend on
earth.

'i'll get you a cab, or is your

brougham coming for you?" asked Alan
as they proceeded to leave the room.

Oh, the brougham will be here ; at
least I ordered it at half-past three.
Yes, there it is, so good-bye until this
evening; you and Isabel dine with me
sou know ? ' '

^' I shan't forget."

^^ And I feel so grateful to you for
having sent me home happy, and with
renewed faith in the realisation of my

Dream,' " she said laughingly.

"I only spoke the truth." And as
Alan lifted his hat to her, when the
carriage rolled away from the door, he
murmured sadly to himself, ^' your

dream ' is more likely to be realised
than vine can ever be. Oh God ! how
it haunts me still — ' mon revel mon
river''

CHAPTEK VII.

Good-bye,

*' I may be worse than friends would prove.
Who knows the worst of any man ?
But, whatsoe'er it be, my love
Is not what they conceive, nor can."

One Morning.

"Let me thank you for that which ennobled regret,
When it came, as it beautified hope ere it fled, —
The love I once felt for you. True, it is dead,
But it is not corrupted."

Lucile.

^'You left lis all nicely in the lurcli^
Captain Dering, at the Gallery yesterday
! " and Alan found himself confronted
in the park next morning by a member
of the previous day's party.

The speaker was one of those women
whom every one feels bound to turn and

stare at by virtue of her somewhat ^no-
nonce style of dressing, and her own vivid
colouring, slightly embellished by art,
but whom no human being of refined
taste could seriously have admired. For,
as a defeated but more patrician rival
once sarcastically said of her, " if
Nature had sat up all night to do it,
she could never have made that young
woman a lady."

Captain Dering did the only thing to
be done inter the circumstances, and
tried hard to hint that lie had felt the
aggrieved party, and the one who was
^4eft out in the cold."

*' No, no, that won't do. We all saw
you talking to a mysterious female in
black, whom you escorted out of the
room with as much solemnity as if she
were a princess. Now, tell me who it
was ? "

In addition to a decided and most
cordial dislike to his questioner, Alan
Dering felt a positive loathing against
mentioning Cecil's name in any conversation
of this sort; but he knew the
woman he had to deal with too well to
make any mystery about so simple a
matter, as the faintest suspicion of any
other woman being attractive besides
herself would, he knew, be like a firebrand
thrown on her overweening and jealous
vanity. So he merely answered, ^' It
was an old friend of mine, a Lady
Euthven, who painted that picture of
Joan of Arc in this year's Academy, you
know."

''No, I don't know. Oh, she's an
artist then ? " And apparently this fact
proved a very uninteresting one to the
fair speaker, or else the unconcealed
glances of admiration levelled at her by

the 'golden youths" leaning over the
rails, proved more interesting, for to
Alan's great relief she dropped the subject
apparently satisfied, and he T\'as
allowed to proceed on his way unmolested.


But the words so lightly spoken had
taken root ; the ordinary chatter of
society had struck home where it was
scarcely meant, and to Alan Dering lay
suddenly revealed the undeniable fact,
that the dream of his youth was also
the dream of his manhood, and that his
first love would be his last, let Fate do
what it might.

He thought over the past few weeks,
the events of each day, and the dreams
of each night ; the quiet and perfect
happiness of those hours which were
spent beside her, the wasted excitement
and feverish unrest of those which were

spent apart. He could feel that the life
he had lately been living had not done
him much good, morally or physically;
but that was no fault of hers, no fault
of any one's save the goddess Fortune.
(Perhaps it shewed kindness on the part
of the ancients to represent that same
goddess as blind, for at least she was
spared from witnessing the many wrongs
and sorrows wrought in her name ! ) And
India, too. A separation of many months
stared him in the face ere long ; how
should he, how could he, live without
her ? Never to meet her bright smile,
never to clasp her hand, never to hear
her voice for long weary years ! How was
it to be borne, how even lived through ?

Alan Dering had woke up to a sense
of his danger at last, and he tried to
look it bravely in the face. There could
be no doubt that to leave England as

soon as possible was the wisest course
to pursue under the circumstances, in
fact the only right one ; but knowing her
to be heart-free, feeling sure that the
bitterest pang Iter heart could know
would, undoubtedly, be parting with her
friend and companion, made him hesitate,
and finally resolve to bear any torture on
earth sooner than rob her of even the
smallest pleasure which it was in his
power to afford her.

She was happy and heart-whole ; then
what need to think of him '^ How should
she know that from henceforth each kind
word or smile would be a torture like
unto that of Tantalus' cup to this man ?

'^ God knows I would do far more than
that for her if I could," thought Alan
to himself, with the reckless, unselfish
generosity of a love which is deep and
true enough to count no cost.

'' My dear fellow, this is the third time
I've spoken to you, and nothing but a
dig in the ribs with my umbrella is left
to me now ! " and the speaker suited
action to word.

^' I beg your pardon, Teddy, but my
wits were wool-gathering, I suppose."

^^ That's a way they have of late," observed
Teddy, drily. ^' Well, when's
your leave up, and when do you rejoin
us parboiled mortals at Aldershot ? "

^'To-morrow. I shan't get much of
that Pandemonium though, for we'll be
sent to Colchester soon, ' previous to embarkation
for India,' as the papers say."

^' Ahemnecl good job too, else there'd
be very little of me left, I can tell you,
if I had to disport myself much longer
in that anti-heaven yclept the Long
Valley."

'' It's a turn of luck for both of us that

Hamilton doesn't want to go to India,
and has sent in his papers."

^' Yes, you'll be a 'would major ' then,
and I shall be a proud ' casting.' I've
ordered extra suits of clothes at my
tailors' already, on the strength of it.
Tailors are good fellows, really, if you
take 'em the right way ! " added Mr. Graham
in a burst of enthusiasm. 'i'm
sure I hope they'll get a Promised Land
some day, for at present they get a deal
more of ' promises ' than anything more
substantial."

That evening, the last evening they
were all to spend in company for many a
weary day, Alan Dering, for the first time
in his life, felt distrait and ill at ease in
the society of Lady Euthven. Since he
had discovered the secret of his own
reckless folly it seemed to him almost
impossible but what every one else should
VOL. II. 24

discover it too ; and therefore he naturally
ran into the opposite extreme, and was so
cold and reserved in demeanour that
Cecil's frank eyes opened wide in astonishment
at last, and her laughing challenge
of his being in ^^the most indigo
of blues " was made in a half vexed spirit
of disappointment at the unusual taciturnity
of her generally so pleasant companion.


^^I do think that as this is our last
evening all together you might help me
to make it a recollection of brightness,
and not of dullness," she said entreatingly,
in a low voice, under cover of Mary Graham's
brilliant fantasia on '' Scotch Airs"
in the distance.

Ah ! how often do we unconsciously
make others ^^ pull the chestnuts from
the fire," unfeelingly and unthinkingly,
and it is only when some day our own

hands are sadly burnt and scarred, that
the memory strikes home to ns of what
they too must have suffered !

'^ I am sorry, Lady Enliven, if I am
assisting to spoil the festive spirit of your
last dinner-party ; but, somehow, I do
feel a bit down in my luck to-night, I'll
confess it to yoii. ^ Last nights' are
never very cheery things, do you think?"

^'Oh, no; " and Alan, as he watched
her, felt an unreasonable joy at the deep
and grave regret in the far-away grey
eyes, which accompanied Cecil's answer.

*' But I shall see you before you sail ? '*
she asked eagerly. ^' Isabel says she
must come to town the week before, just
for a few last * shoppings,' " added Lady
Ruthven, smilingly.

Of course she must. No, this won't
be quite 'good-bye' yet," answered Alan
slowly, Hke one in a dream.

'swell, that is to be in November,
isn't it? I shall be in town then too,
for my long holiday will be over and I
shall be anxious enough to get to work
again."

I envy you your work. It will bring
you occupation, triumph, even forgetfulness
; " and there was a tone of pain in
the man's voice that struck to Cecil's
heart.

^'And you, too," she said quickly; ^'you
will have plenty of work, and change of
scene, and change of faces. It is true
that I have had a small share of success
in my way, which may be the promise of
more to come in the future ; but that
doesn't bring perfect happiness. Else,
why should laurels taste bitter ? "

She spoke in the low dreamy tone he
liked best, for a careful observation had
assured him that unconsciously it was

never used save when speaking to himself.


At this moment Eosabel claimed her
hostess's attention to settle some trifling
dispute with regard to a colony, and the
minutes flew by, and the time of farewell
arrived without Alan Dering exchanging
another syllable with her.

The Derings were to leave town early
next morning, and many were the last
words and injunctions given and exchanged
between Eosabel and Lady
Euthven, with regard to their' next short
meeting in the autumn, ere the gallant
30th Hussars would leave then native
shores for India's coral strands.

Mrs. Graham and her daughter are
surrounding Eosabel at the last minute,
for these three are not to meet again,
and Alan crosses hastily over to where
Lady Euthven stands somewhat in the

background, delicately afraid of being in
the way of those affectionate and kindhearted
relatives.

^' Cecil," and his voice sounds forced
and unfamiliar, ^^ I must thank you for all
you have been to me, have done for me.
In giving me your friendship, your companionship,
so frankly and truly, you unconsciously
exorcised a madder devil than
man was ever yet possessed of. I cannot
explain or say more, I can only say, ^ God
bless you, dear, now and ever! ' "

CHAPTEK Viii.

WHAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN.

' But may there not be
A friendship yet hallowed between you and me ?
May we not be yet friends — friends the dearest? '

'Alas!'
She replied, ' for one moment, perchance, did it pass
Through my own heart, that dream which for ever hath

brought
To those who indulge it in innocent thought,
So fatal and evil a waking. But, no ;
For in lives such as ours are, the Dream-tree would grow
On the borders of Hades : beyond it, what lies ?

To your eyes, friend of mine, and to your eyes alone,

That now long-faded page of my life hath been shown.

Which recorded my heart's birth, and death, as you know,

Many years since, how many ! A few months ago

I seem'd reading it backward, that page ! Why explain

Whence or how ? The old dream of my life rose again.

The old superstition, the idol of old !

It is over.

*****

I bury it here by the sea
Which will bear me anon far away from the shore,
Of a land which my footsteps shall visit no more.
And a heart's requiescat I write on that grave'"

Lucile.

November has come, and to one person
in this world it seems as if the end of
all things had come with it.

Strangers say that Alan Dering looks
worried and ill, but Isabel sees it not,
and only answers pettishly, ^' so like
people to try and make a man think
he's ill, before he ever tries the climate
even! "

But great and serious was her dismay
when one day her husband gravely
broached to her the possibility of his exchanging,
and not going out to India after
all ; for Eosabel had set her little heart
on the Hfe of flattery, admiration, indolence,
and comfort, which she felt sure
awaited her on those far-off eastern
shores.

^^ Not go to India ? Not go out at
all ? " and tears rolled down the lovely
pink and white cheeks copiously. They

had arrived in town the night before,
and were breakfasting previous to Mrs.
Bering's final raids on dressmakers and
outsiders in general.

Alan did not answer. His bad angel
had got the best of him at last, and he
was conscious of but one wild desire left
on earth, i.e., never to leave the land
where dwelt the one and only love of his
life.

*sand to think of all my thin clothes,
trimmed with real lace too ; how am I
to wear them in this detestable climate ?
Oh, it's too hard, Alan ; what can you be
doing it for?"

^* I hate going, now that it comes to
the point," he said shortly.

^'But you must have some reason V
persisted his wife not unnaturally.

^^None, save what I tell you." Truly
he had no reason for his folly !

From tears Mrs. Dering changed abruptly
to hot indignation.

^^ I shall go to Cecil at once, and tell
her what you say ! I'm sure she'll agree
with me as regards your folly."

'^ Of course she will," answered her
husband, quietly and sadly.

'* But then why do it, Alan, if you
yourself think it is folly ? Listen to me.
I know I'm not clever, and never can
give any one good advice, but go to
Cecil, do go to Cecil, and see what she
says," urged Isabel, with tearful persistence.


'^ I will, if you wish it ; " and inwardly
he thought grimly how little likely was
such an expedient to have the desired
result.

^' Well, when will you go ? " asked
Mrs. Dering, with feverish impatience.

I can't go till ^yq o'clock this afternoon,

for the chief wants me, I think,
until then."

Well, I shall go and see her at once,"
said Isabel, complainingly ; ^' and I hope
that by the time you do come, she will
be better able to persuade you to do your
duty than I am ! ' ' And a fresh remembrance
of the lovely ethereal trousseau
prepared for those hot eastern climes,
added a tenfold pang to her aggrieved
spirit as she departed indignantly on her
errand.

Vaguely and wearily did Alan Dering
struggle through the manifold duties of
that day; never before had his colonel
seemed so fussy and exacting ; never had
he himself felt less capable of understanding
the simplest subject. Everything
resolved itseK in his mind into two
momentous facts — that once more he
should meet Cecil before the day was

done, and that then and there he must
make up his mind either never to see her
again, or never to leave her.

At last he was free ; and, quite forgetting
that he himself had stated five
o'clock as the earliest hour when he
should make his appearance at Lady
Euthven's house, he started off for thereat
once, and received a positive shock of
astonishment when the servant who
opened the door calmly said, ^^Not at
home," to his first inquiry.

But being a well-known visitor, some
further information was vouchsafed to
him in the words —

'' Her ladyship left word that she'd beat
home for certain by five; and I believe,
sir, she's gone to Kensington."

'^ Of course, to the Gallery, no

doubt; " and Captain Dering sprang into
a hansom and ordered himself to be
driven to that locality at once.

The first person he encountered at the
entrance was Lady Euthven herself, and
her joyful exclamation, ^' Oh, I am so
glad to see you," gave him time to recover
himself and to answer with discreet
indifference.

*^I was going home, for Kosahel told
me you were coming to see me at five
o'clock, and it's got so dark I can't see
to paint any longer."

She spoke loth fast and nervously, two
very unusual things with Cecil, and it
was with a strange feeling of warding
off some unknown pain that she proposed
to him to walk home to her house, instead
of loth driving.

^* I've a weakness for walking in London
through a gaslit fog," she said,
trying to speak lightly, as they made
their way into the park by Prince's Gate.
But Alan scarcely answered, and long

and pre-occupied silences took the place
of the usual steady flow of talk which
these two friends had, as a rule, maintained.


At last Lady Euthven's house is
reached, and both the firelight and
pleasantly shaded lamp look bright and
cheerful after the gloom and fog outside.


Not so the faces of those who now
sit facing that fire-light, each one wondering
how soon the other will broach
the important subject.

^^ You saw Eosabel this morning ? "

^^Yes."

^^ And she told you of my change of
determination as regards going out to
India?"

*eyes; but I cannot see ivlmj you
should change your mind ? "

He looks keenly at her, but troubled

as her face appears, her eyes are as clear
and true as a child's.

'then I will tell you;" and Alan
Dering draws a deep breath, then goes
on speaking steadily: '^ I don't want to
leave England, because there is but one
human being to me on earth, and lie
lives there. Cecil, Cecil, are you so
blind as not to have seen it all along ?
And yet, why should you, for was I myself
not equally blind ? How could I
tell that the love I felt for you long years
ago would come back to me now tenfold,
nay, a thousand-fold stronger than
before ? Oh, my darling ! my darling I
I cannot live without you ! I cannot
toil through all the long weary days and
hours alone, without your dear eyes to
strengthen and help me. I cannot ! Oh,
God, I cannot I ' '

A deathly silence reigns throughout

the room, save for the flicker of the
flames, and the monotonous ^' ticktack"
of Cecil's little French clock. A
still more deathly silence reigns over
Cecil Enliven's soul, for at last she
knows full well the meaning of that
strange and dreary ache at her heart,
which she has felt through all the past
months; at last she realises the sorrow
and unutterable despair of the words,
^' too late!"

And lie J too. Before all things she
must think of him ! It was true enough
that her influence over him was very
great ; how best could it be used — by
forsaking him, or staying by him ? Truly,
there are some natures over whom the
power of good has sometimes a stronger
temptation than the power of evil ;
natures which are as proof against the
assaults of sin and temptation, as a

strong calm rock, which throws hack
the sea-foam that dashes vainly against
it, hilt which may yet go down before
the power of a great faith and love, oran
unselfish dread of dealing pain to
others.

There is one strong desperate struggle
in her soul, the struggle between happiness
and misery, right and wrong ; between
strength and honour, and a woman's
love and weakness ; then, the strong high
sense of honour which breathed forth
in every fibre of her nature asserts itself,
the old nature wakes up again at the
first call of pain or trial, and the woman
of the world is as stern in her uncompromising
justice to her own faults, as
the wild uncultured girl was great in her
unselfishness and savage honour so long
ago.

'' It is all my fault, Alan, not yours ; "
VOL. II. 25

and her voice sounds strange and hoarse,
and unlike itself, nor will her eyes meet
his. *^I ought to have thought of it, I
ought to have seen the danger, hut I was
so happy that I did not."

^' Hush ! I will not hear you reproach
yourself for what is only my wild folly.
How could you tell that each light word
or smile of yours sank into my heart like
an ineffaceable record ? Cecil, you can
guess, if you do not know, at the dreariness
of my life, the loneliness of my
heart, the weary suffering of each day
and hour. Only let me breathe the same
air as you do, meet you sometimes in the
crowd, clasp your hand as a friend, and I
am content ; aye, more than content ! "

'^ It cannot be." And something in
that stern, hut most ineffably sad voice,
recalls to Alan's mind an old man's
prophecy long years ago : *^ My daughter

is a Euthven, aud will aye be true to her
troth."

'rit is easy for you to say so," bursts
out her listener in hollow, despairing
tones. '' You never heeded, you never
cared, years ago, when you scorned and
rejected me, though T loved you so truly,
so dearly ! Why should you care more
7101U, when I have only the self-same love
to offer you which I gave you tlmi^ true
and loyal to you at least, if to nothing
else on earth."

Did she not care ? What means the
trembling of body and soul, the agonized
longing of a breaking woman's
heart to tell the truth, and the awful
temptation to say 'eyes" where honour
to God and man compel her to say "No " ?
Sometimes one may wonder, ivill there
ever be a mete reward for all the pain
suffered on earth? for it must surely bea

stupendous one if it can drown all remembrance
of the agony which went
before !

'you are right, I do not care;" an
involuntary shiver runs through the
speaker's voice, but each word is slow
and distinct; ^^so don't waste a thought
on me. Remember, you have your life
and all its duties before you. Remember
that there is a future as well as a past.
Forget this wild folly of to-night, and let
us be the true good friends we always
have been. Oh, Alan, dear Alan, do go
away and live out your life happily and
truly, with no thought of me, for what
can I bring to you now save sorrow and
suffering ? "

'^ Sorrow ! suffering ! Those are household
words in my life not ! "

'^ Why exchange a sorrow which has
been wrestled with in many a sore strife,

and has been conquered and trodden
under foot, for a sorrow the height and
depth and strength of which you know
not, and cannot know ? "

^'I should be near you'' is the man's
only answer.

Two sentences from a book which she
had read that day rise before Cecil
Euthven's mind, and sound in her ears
I^'ke some prophetic spirit's muttering :
'^ Dans tes bras je perds le sens de tout,
meme Honneur ! " and the steadfast
answer: ^* N'importe, je men souviendrais
pour toi."

If she prove weak now, what chance
is there for him'^ What hope here and
hereafter ? What shadow of happiness in
all days to come ?

'alan, it must be, dear. There is no

other course for us save to say good-bye."

'' How can I say it, when it means

death in life to me ? My darling, were
it for your happiness you were pleading,
then indeed would I listen. But what
does it hurt you if I choose to throw
away my life in worshipping an old
dream? "

Cecil starts and turns round abruptly,
facing him at last.

^' Alan, if I told you that it was for my
good, for my peace's sake that I wished
you to go away, would you do it ? "

The honest eyes meet his as trustingly
as of old, but the world of loyal love and
faith in them almost unman him.

^'What do you mean; what is it,
Cecil?" he falters.

^' I do ' care ' Alan ; God alone knows
how much ! Now, will you go away, for
my sake, to help me ? "

''■ Yes, so help me God ! "

Solemnly are the words spoken which

sound a death knell to Alan Bering's
heart, and with a feeling of unutterable
reverence and love he takes the small
white hand in his which he has coveted
so long, and draws her gently towards
him.

"Good-bye, Cecil; good-bye, my only
love on earth, my first love and my last.
Yon have conquered, child, and I will do
all you tell me now. I would face years
and years of endless torture here and
hereafter, for the sake of knowing that at
least you love me at the last ! Cecil, I
feel I ought to pray that you may forget
me, but I cannot. Oh, God, but it is
hard to give you up ! "

"It is hard, bitterly hard ; " and a low
moan breaks forth from the girl's white
set lips; "but, Alan, it is right ; we
must ask no more. Will you promise me
one thing only' ? "

^'iVny thing on this earth."

I won't ask you to forget me ; natures
such as yours and mine cannot forget.
But I do ask you for my sake to live a
true and loyal life, and never to despair.
Will you do this ? "

^a'lltry."

"mind now, good-bye." Her strength
was failing her fast she felt ; it must begot
over soon.

^'Good-bye," he answered mechanically,
and in a strange hoarse voice ; then, ashe
reached the door, he turned and came
back hastily, took both her hands in his,
and brushed her forehead with his lips
in a caress which was like a mute farewell
to love, life, all things ; then, the
sound of a closing door rings in Cecil's
fast deafening ears, and with a low wail
of sorrow the conqueror in that hour of
strife falls on her knees, with face hidden

in her hands, trying vainly to realize the
price at which that victory has been
gained, and the sorrow which no future
years will ever efface from out her heart.

CHAPTER IX.

BEECHWAEDEN.

A man's first care should be to avoid the reproaches of
his own heart ; his next, to escape the censures of the world."
Addison.

If you break your plaything yourself, dear.
Don't you cry for it all the same ? "

*ris this home at last?" and the
speaker's bright gipsy face lit up with
excitement as the carriage, which had
been sent to the station to meet Geoffry
Dumaresque and his wife, turned in
under the old stone archway, grim and
grey, which commanded the entrance into
Beechwarden.

*' It's strange, Geoff, but I seem to
remember this place ! " exclaimed Badges

with a sudden and superstitious shiver, as
she glanced up at the massive stonework
above her head. The arms of the Duma-rescues
and the Derings looked down
more impassively than ever, in calm contempt
at this storming of their stronghold
by a nameless waif and stray ; and the
girl's wistful gaze had something strangely
beseeching in it, as she glanced up at those
time-honoured monuments of pride of
both, almost as if imploring their forgiveness.


'you caiiH have seen it, Madge,"
answered Geoffry pettishly. ^' What in
the world should take you to Beech-warden?
"

'nothing. Unless I had passed it by
travelling," answered Madge hesitatingly.
Those days of yore were a most uncongenial
subject to Geoffry Dumaresque's
mind.

'* Nonsense. Why can't you let those
past days alone, Madge ? You're always
thinking of them, and you know how I
hate their very remembrance ! Try to
forget them in those of the present."

Madge Lee did not answer, but looked
out into the fast gathering darkness with
a weary feeling of disappointment in her
heart ; so many illusions had been dispelled
lately, so many a golden dream
turned to grey. Was this long anticipated
*home coming" to prove a
failure too ?

Above the roll of the carriage wheels
and the tramp of horses' hoofs resounded
dreary rustling and whispering amongst
the branches of the old beech trees all
around, and to the gipsy girl's wild
superstitious nature, there seemed almost
a sound of warning in that low sad
moaning.

But all fears and all ills seemed to
have vanished as if by magic, when a
few hours later the travellers found themselves
seated at dinner in the cosy little
*' breakfast room" of the mansion, considered
more befitting to a Ute-astute
entertainment than the huge, oak-panelled
dining room which was used on state
occasions. Both were in the best of
spirits, blest with youth, health, and
strength, and each apparently fully satisfied
with the other ; what more could
any young couple want ? And yet there
was an expression on Geoffrey Duma-rescue's
face now which had not been
there before, a deeper look than his weak
and vacillating features had once worn
but, withal, a sadder look too.

As he passes his slight thin hand
lovingly over his wife's dark hair, whilst
she kneels beside him in the firelight, it

needs no great power of observation to
fathom that the love which the boy so
rashly ventured in the folly and hot
haste of youth, has strengthened, not
weakened, as the years went on ; and that
the one true deep chord in Geoffry
Dumaresque's weak and facile nature is
his passionate devotion to the girl he
walls his wife.

What would he not give novo to undo
the past, to dare to claim the love of his
life honourably and nobly as a man
should, to shield that slight form against
the storms and tempests of a weary world ?
And yet he, her most loved and trusted
friend on earth, has proved himself her
bitterest enemy ; and there is no chance
of retrieving past errors now !

Well may Geoffry Dumaresque dread
the inevitable discovery of the truth
which the light of each day may perforce

bring forth, and small wonder is it
that his wife's bright hopeful words, when
speaking of the future and all its joys to
come, should make his heart sink within
him, and his spirit to quail in utter and
impotent despair.

"If it were not for the child, I should
not care so much," he said to his
own feeble, miserable heart. '' But when
that is born, she must know all, and then,
God help us both ! "

^* Geoff, dear, you look tired and badly
to-night," says a sweet low voice anxiously
; and laying one arm around his
neck, Madge rests her little dark head on
his shoulder lovingly.

"It's nothing, Madge. I suppose one
does get a bit tired after travelling so
long ; and I haven't been here for so
many years that it makes one tliinli a
bit, somehow."

^^Yes, I quite understand," says the
girl quickly and sympathetically.

^'And I don't know how it is, but I
seem to feel the loss of the good old man
who is gone, more to-night than I ever
did before. I wish to God I hadn't vexed
and crossed him as often as I did, in days
gone by ; " and the tardily repentant son
stares moodily into the fire with sad and
anxious gaze.

*' But Geoff," pleads the loving voice
beside him once more, " you never
vexed him much dear, you never did
anything really bad except when you
married me, and lie never knew that I
was your wife." Do what she will, a
tinge of sadness and regret creeps into
the girl's voice.

'■'' You don't repent your sacrifice,
Madge?"

'never! It was a little enough price

to pay for what it bought. But why talk
of all that now, Geoff? Aren't all the
dark days over? and isn't my 'good time'
coming at last ? ' ' And T^ith a tearful
laugh of deep happiness, Madge lays her
head against his knee and kisses the
slender, effeminate hand which lies carelessly
on it.

'poor little woman! It doesn't take
much to make you happy, Madge," says
her lover, tenderly.

"Not mucli^'" re-echoes Madge, lifting
up her head now and speaking sith
fast and passionate utterance. " I
tell you it is just ' life ' itself which
you have given me, Geoff, and without
you I would sooner die ! But don't
let's talk of dying, dear, for we are
both young, and there is no fear of
that yet a bit, unless," and the girl's

voice becomes hushed and low, " I
VOL. II. 26

may chance to die when my baby is
born."

Geoffry Dumaresque's heart stood still
with fear and dread. How could he realize
a life without her in it ? — and yet how
could he drown the voice crying out in
his innermost soul with impotent anguish,
'' 'Twere best so ! "

'^ Madge, don't talk of such things,
dear," he says huskily, and involuntarily
drawing that dear head nearer to him,
in vain protection against the relentless
Nemesis which is pursuing him in
thought both night and day.

^' Well, I won't, dear boy," answers
Madge brightly and caressingly. *' Suppose
you tell me something about your
own people, Geoff, for, maybe, I shall
know them soon now, you see."

Geoffry stirs uneasily in his chair, and
then answers absently —

'' Oil, I've only got one sister, and no
other relation in the world scarcely, save
her husband."

'rand who is he?"

You know him. Alan Bering."

Captain Dering ! Oh, did your sister
marry him? I am so glad, for now he'll
know all about me, and will know, too,
that I kept my word to him true enough,
for all that I seemed so wicked and bad."

The girl's face is rendered gloriously
beautiful by its expression of radiant and
proud satisfaction now ; but the man
beside her seems to take little heed of its
surpassing beauty, nor does he even seem
to hear the triumphant ring in the clear,
low voice.

And is there no one else ? " she continues
eagerly. " I know your people
won't like me at first, Geoff, dear, but
perhaps they will some day, don't you

think ? " and the loving brown eyes plead
timidly for their imagined and long-coveted
rights.

perhaps," answers young Mr. Duma-rescue
shortly.

He evidently feels sure that they
never will," thinks the girl sadly in her
own heart. *swell, so long as I have
7wm, what does all else matter?" and
it is with a sunny and untroubled mien
that Madge pursues her questionings.
'^ Whose house did you say that was
which we passed just before arriving
here ? — that pretty little cottage, with a
stream running at the foot of the
garden ? "

^' You mean Eiverside, as it is called.
That belongs to young Lady Kuthven,
I believe, but she has always let it for
the fishing ever since it became hers at
her husband's death."

'^ I'm sorry. ^ Young Lady Kiithven '
sounds Eke some one who would be a
nice friend," says Madge with speculative
frankness. A friend to /^er P Where
would lie find a friend of any sort to give
her a kind hand clasp or even a friendly
greeting ?

'^ I've heard that she is very charming,"
says Geoffry Dumaresque absently.

For a long time there is a deep silence,
then Madge speaks again :

Geoff ! I have a great favour to ask
of you, a veris great one."

^' Speak out, dear," and he smiles at
her gravely anxious face.

There was a girl in our troupe, I
mean in our company, you know," and
Madge blushes hotly as she sees a frown
gather on her young husband's face,
^^who was a great friend of mine, and
I should so like to see her again," says
Madge, wistfully.

'sand I should so much like to ask
her to stay with me some day, if I might.
She's as good and honest and true as the
day, Geoff, and she nursed me once when
I was very bad with fever, and oli, she
was so kind to me ! "

^' That may be ; but you can show your
gratitude to her in some other way. By
giving her a handsome present for instance,
or something of that sort."

^' Give her a present / '^ and the dark,
gipsy eyes blazed with indignant fire.
^' How could any present this world
might give, equal what she gave me ?
No ; let me ask her to come and see my
grand home — to share my bright days,
even as she shared my dark ones, and let
her know that Madge Lee never forgets
old kindnesses, even though she may be
so proud and happy that there seems

scarce room in her heart for any other
joy save her o^\ti."

*well, well, let it be as you like,
Madge," answers Geoffry Dumaresque,
unwilling, but still half conquered by the
beauty of the imploring face raised so
eagerly to his own.

'soh, thank you again and again, dear
Geoff!" she exclaims delightedly. *sit
seems just like a beautiful fairy tale," she
pursues more soberly and with a grave
reflective face; '^ to think that I shall
be able at last to return the kindnesses
of others, and brighten their' lives by
sharing with them a bit of my own bright
glory;" and the girl laughs aloud from
pure joy and gladness, as she revels in
the blissful thoughts which her mind has
conjured up.

But the ring of that clear, joyous laugh
seems to sound as a knell in the ears of

Geoffry Dumaresque ; for he starts up
with a troubled countenance and proposes
to shew his companion anything and
everything on which his perturbed mind
can lay hold as an excuse, and so the
dangerous conversation drifts safely over
this time, and the hand of Fate is stayed
for a while.

Chapter X.

A SUMMER Morning.

The woman who loves should, indeed,
Be the friend of the man that she loves. She should heed
Not her selfish and often mistaken desires.
But his interest, whose fate her own interest inspires ;
And, rather than seek to allure, for her sake.
His life down the turbulent, fanciful wake
Of impossible destinies, use all her art
That his place in the world find its place in her heart,"

Lucien

this occasion Mr. Geoffry Diimaresqiie
made a mistake, Yflien he gave it as his
opinion that the pretty cottage known to
the neighborhood in general as Riverside,
was let to strangers. That it was
ordinarily so let was true, but at the
present time the late tenant having taken
his departure, and a new one not yet

having been found, Lady Kuthven herself
was in occupance of the pretty mansion,
and enjoying country air and country life
to the full, after the wearily hot London
season had drawn to a close.

To a casual observer there was little
change in the pale earnest face which
now looked out on the bright August
sunshine, as its owner stood in the rose-covered
porch of the cottage this summer
morning, trying to solve the important
problem where and how the next few
hours of idleness should be spent. Buta
change there was, and a great one too,
though no stranger's eye might mark it ;
for the change lay deep down in the
woman's very heart and soul.

For days and weeks after her last parting
with Alan Dering had Cecil striven
nobly to fight down all dangerous memories,
all weak regrets, and to be her own

true loyal self. Feverishly, iimveariedly
she toiled at her '^ work," her occupations,
even her amusements, trying to
drown in a ceaseless life of action the
still small voice of '^ what might have
been."

And slowly and surely the succour
came, came with returning health and
strength, with hardly-won peace and rest ;
and now, on this August morning, though
in the depths of her heart she realizes
how impossible it would be ever really to
forget the past, her brave spirit is joyous
and at rest at last, for she feels that the
struggle is over now, the victory won.

Cecil Euthven was a woman who when
she loved, gave all as women do once
and once only in their lives, lavishly, ungrudgingly,
and never counting the cost ;
but who, did she lose that all, had power
to do the hardest thing which life can

give to mortal man to do, i.e.^ not to
*^ forget," but to '' live down."

"Forgetting" is often but another
name for hurt vanity, lowered pride,
and the temper which shews itself in
extra emphasized " dead cuts," only to
be revenged by weeping and wailing in
softer moments, when some chance meeting
again brings the old sorrow face to
face. But when a life's story is "lived
down," after many months or years of
honestly acknowledged and weary strife
against its power, then and then alone
comes rest, for there is no peace like unto
that of the dead !

And so a soft bright look rests on Cecil
Ruthven's face to-day, as once more she
peruses the long Indian letter which this
morning's post has brought her. It is
from Alan Dering ; and though here and
there a stray word in the epistle tells an

unconscious tale of sadness and loneliness
to the woman who can so well read every
vague thought or idea of his, on the
whole the news contained in it is cheery
enough, and Lady Kuthven's heart feels
happy in her friend's welfare.

A dreamy chain of old memories draws
out its slow length before her gaze, and
as the letter lies idly' on her lap, her
thoughts wander far away to the sunny
Eastern climes, where its whiter is even
now obeying the behest so earnestly
urged upon his remembrance long years
ago: ^^ there is the world, and there is
life hidden in it somewhere, — it must not
be wasted."

She sighs half sadly as the reflection
crosses her mind how widely sundered are
their several interests now ; and vaguely
she envies poor pretty Eosabel the grace
which a kindly fate has accorded unto her

of sharing that loved one's life wheresoever
its destiny may lead him. And
Isabel seemed to value all this so little !
A new dress or a new trinket would have
power perhaps to rouse her soul unto
enthusiasm, but she seemed either wilfully
or unconsciously blind to the great and
untold well of happiness which the love
and respect of such a man as Alan Dering
must assuredly have brought her had she
cared to keep it.

For Lady Ruthven, in the rash and
unthinking judgment which we so often
mete out to others, never doubted that
this man's love had once been all Rosa-bel's
; and in her true honest heart she
grudged the latter not one whit a treasure
which had been so fairly won. How
often in this world it is the second in the
race which has fought the bravest fight
and striven against the heaviest odds !

Cecil put ou lier hat, and collected her
book, sunshade, and other necessaries for
the enjoyment of an idle summer morning,
and strolled along the smooth trim
lawn, to where a clear trout stream
bordered the small domain.

Helter-skelter rushed the brown trout
and silvery minnows in every direction
in the water, as on its surface became
reflected the vision of a white-clad young
woman, sheltered by a large green sunshade
; and even an old water-rat, possessing
much stability of character, not to
say most unblushing effrontery, — sprang
off his pollard root nth a splash and
betook himself hastily to the opposite
bank, at sight of so unusual an apparition.


Lady Kuthven sauntered slowly on
through the wicket-gate at the end of
the lawn, and into the great green

meadow beyond, and finally through the
glaring hot cornfield which now alone
lay between her and the cool shady
mass of beeches that marked the boundaries
of Beechwarden.

It was becoming most oppressively
hot, and though gathering poppies in
the corn " has a most bewitchingly rural
sound, Cecil was mindful of the fact that
this process is usually accompanied by
sticky fingers and a crick in the back,
so she let those ^^ scarlet ladies" flaunt
on in peace, and hastened her steps until
a high wooden stile led her safely into
the park of Beechwarden.

Here there was no glaring sunshine,
here all was cool and still, and an indescribable
feeling of rest stole over Cecil
Kuthven's heart. It was a joy even to
live on such a day, she thought, as each,
step on the soft yielding moss, sprinkled

^vith fallen beeclinuts, seemed to stir up
fresh fragrance from earth and flowers.
On and on she wandered until at last,
upon reaching a sudden opening in the
wood, she found herself standing by the
edge of a small deep pond hinged with
alders and willow-trees. Close around it
towered the great beech-trees, shutting
out every gleam of sunshine which sought
to reflect itself on the water's dark bosom,
and even the water-hies floating in its
midst seemed less pure and white than
usual, as if nothing innocent or bright
could flourish in so dark and weird a
spot.

Involuntarily Lady Euthven shuddered,
and the thought crossed her mind, how
appropriately melodramatic this dreary
place would be for the commission of
some deed of darkness or the haunt of
some ghostly victim of crime ; and as she

VOL. II. 27

sat down on a fallen tree to take a few
moments' rest, involuntarily she looked
furtively towards the reassuring sight of
a tall pile of chimneys with columns of
smoke issuing therefrom, betokening the
near vicinity of man, and which could
plainly be distinguished through the
farthest grove of beech trees.

evidently the owner of Beechwarden
has come at last," thought LadyKuthven
to herself, and straightway fell to wondering
what this brother of Isabel Bering's
would be like, and whether all the stories
told of him and his escapades were true ;
above all, whether rumour had erred in
saying that when he returned home at
last he had not returned alone.

But her thoughts soon flew back to
the past once more, and old memories
crowded over her thick and fast. Once
more, the water-lilies before her seemed

like unto those which even now were
floating in sumptuous and peaceful content
in the marble basin of the well-remembered
conservatory at Grahamstown
House; again she heard the trickle of
the cool water, dropping slowly on to the
ferns and the leaves, again the drowsy
sweetness of the orange-blossoms seemed
lulHng her heart and mind into dreamy
oblivion, and once more she heard Alan
Bering's low soft tones murmuring in her
ear.

Cecil Euthven was no dreamer on life's
great battle-field, for her was there no
drifting down the stream from sheer lack
of courage to take out the oars. But
there are times when one is tired of
rowing, and weary of always looking
ahead, when it is very sweet to gode into
the sunshine and rest, and dream of
sunny memories gone by.

Her reverie ends abru23tty, for a sKglit
figure, dressed somewhat fancifully in a
pale creamy colour, much ornamented
with deep crimson ribbons, has suddenly
advanced to the edge of the water on the
Beechwarden side, and with a start of
surprise, stands looking at Lady Euth-
even's recumbent figure with dark eyes
full of curiosity and interest.

Cecil rises to her feet, and with an
involuntary haughty grace entirely her
own, advances to the new comer and
says apologetically :

*i'm afraid that I am intruding, but
being a near neighbour to Beechwarden,
I strolled in here to get a little rest and
shade just now. Can you tell me if Mr.
Dumaresque has returned home ? " she
adds hesitatingly, wondering who her
new companion can possibly be.

'eyes, he returned home two days.

-ago," answers the other quietly, seating
herself on the fallen tree from which
Lady Ruthven has just risen, and from
sheer lack of energy to do anything
else, or from a dread of appearing uncourteous,
Cecil also repeats herself, and
each woman looks furtively at the other
with some admiration and a decidedly
rapid growing interest.

Chapter XI,

LADY EUTHVEN S CONQUEST.

** Where the storm in its wrath hath lighted.
The pine lies low in the dust ;
And the corn is-withered and blighted,
Where the fields are red with the rust ;
Falls the black frost, nipping and killing,
Where its petals the violet rears,
And the wind, though tempered, is chilling
To the lamb despoiled by the shears.

The strong in their strength are shaken.
The wise in their wisdom fall ;
And the bloom of beauty is taken —
Strength, wisdom, beauty, and all ;
They vanish, their lot fulfilling,
Their doom approaches and nears.
But the wind, though tempered, is chilling
To the lamb despoiled by the shears."

AsMaroth.

** You say that you live near here"'
inquired Madge Lee, for it was none
other than she who now sat sharing the

impromptu bench, created by a forest
giant's downfall.

'* Yes, at Eiverside."

*'01i! then you are Lady Euthven,"
exclaimed Madge frankly. '^ I'm so glad,
for I quite longed to see you."

*eyes?" And Cecil marvelled more
and more who this girl could be, with
the beautiful flashing face and rich dress,
and yet with a strange accent which
scarcely bespoke pride of birth.

*ewe came home two days ago, and my
husband had to ride over to his agent's
this morning, so I came out to get a
little fresh air by myself. And I am so
glad, for now I have seen ?sow."

The ring of bright, unconscious flattery
in the speaker's voice went far to disarm
Lady Kuthven's gradually growing
mistrust ; it was impossible to help
responding to" such frank overtures, made

with that honest smile and bright loving
gaze, though Cecil shrewdly suspected
that the person before her was none
other than the half-credited, half-doubted
wife of Beechwarden's new possessor.

For many minutes they talked on; of
the country around them, of the trees
and flowers before them, and of the many
trifles which strangers use as a means
of becoming en rapport with those to
whom they converse ; and on the mind of
each was left one dominant impression:
that on Madge Lee's being deep and
sincere admiration for the noble-faced,
courteous-mannered woman beside her,
and that on Cecil's, an overwhelming
pity for the loving, honest child's heart,
so freely spread out before her.

^'And so you live all alone?" mused
Madge in some wonder, as she unconsciously
realised how many could surely

be found only too anxious to invade this
enforced solitude of the pale proud
woman beside her. 'rare you never
lonely?"

'not often," but a quickly repressed
sigh somewhat beheld the speaker's
words.

"I coiilcMt live alone, and that's all
about it," laughed Madge gaily. 'why
it would be Hke living in this dark, dreary
place here, with never a ray of sunshine
to warm one's heart," she added gravely.

So you value the sun beyond all
else ? " asked Cecil, m the vague dreamy
tone so often used by those who Overmuch
alone.

"Indeed I do. That is," and the
bright gipsy face softened quickly, "I
value the sunshine which others can shed
on my life, for it will surely bring me a
good time some day too ! "

Cecil glanced curiously at the bright
hopeful face, and said half sadly —

My experience is, that it is not well
to depend too much on someone else for
the sunshine of one's life ; the day may
come when the sun will set, and darkness
reign over all ! "

^^ That can never be for me not''
exclaimed Madge involuntarily, and then
stopped and coloured crimson at her own
apparently incomprehensible speech.

For a moment she debated in her
mind whether she should tell this newfound
friend who she herself was; but
no, she dared not. What if the other
turned from her with that cold, stony
glare, before which so many Christian
matrons abroad had made her ofttimes
wince ? Little recked she of them, but
this, this was different, — and unshed tears-rose
to Madge's eyes as she pictured to

herself a stern, contemptuous look on
that pale, sweet face, which now glanced
at her so kindly and lovingly'.

As she turned her head again, she
caught the earnest pitying gaze which
Lady Euthven's deep grey eyes involuntarily
wore, and ere she could speak a
word, Cecil's hand clasped hers with
quiet force, as she said —

^' I am a good many years older than
you, so perhaps there is less sunshine forme
in life than I hope and pray there
may be for 3'ou ; but if ever your sun is
behind the clouds, and those clouds look
thick and dark for want of a friend's hand
to tear them aside and let the Hght shine
through, will you come to me and let me
try to help you then ? And now, goodbye."


Something rises in the gipsy girl's
throat and chokes her utterance, and

something else rises to her dark eyes
and obscures her vision ; but though she
answers never a word, and only waves
her hand in farewell to the tall, slight
figure in white, which is once more returning
from whence it came, long does
she stand there watching the eddies and
ripples on the dark, dank waters before
her, as her mind travels over and over
again through each moment and incident
of the bygone hour.

That night at dinner, after the servants
have left the room, Madge comes
out with her great piece of news :

'^ Geoff, I saw Lady Euthven to-day."

*^ Did you, little woman ? And is she
as pretty as they say ? "

^'I thought not at first; but directly
she spoke to me, she seemed lovely — I
never saw a face so fascinating."

^^ SpoJve to you?" echoed Geoffry 

in surprise ; then recollecting
himself, lie added, *but where on earth
could you have met Lady Kuthven ? "

^' Oh, I went out for a walk this morning
after you had started for Mr. Drainer's,
and I rather lost my way, I think, for I
got thicker and thicker into the trees,
and at last reached the most gruesome,
desolate-looking pond I ever saw in my
life, — oh, a horrible place ! "

^' I know; it's called the Found Pond,
and is supposed to have already been the
watery grave of two or three suicides,"
laughed young Mr. Dumaresque.

Just what it looks Hke," exclaimed
Madge, shuddering; ^' but, to go on with
my story, what should I see sitting on a
fallen tree close to the water's edge, buta
lady dressed in white, with a big, green
parasol."

^'I suppose you thought it was the

ghost of one of the Eoimd Pond's victims?"


'' No, I didn't ; my nerves are too good
for that ; but I loss surprised when she
came over and spoke to me, so kindly
and nicely too 1 " Poor Madge, the latter
experience had seldom been hers at the
hands of her own sex.

^' And what did you talk about ? " asked
Geoffry, curiously, wondering in his heart
how much, or rather how little Lady
Euthven could have known of her interlocutor.


So Madge recounted all, and as she
finished her recital, and with broken
voice told how Cecil had taken her hand
and spoken words of kindness and promised
help, should such ever be required, —
Geoffry Dumaresque realised that Lady
Euthven must surely have divined to
whom she was speaking ; and as he noted

the gleam of womanly satisfaction which,
flooded poor Madge's dark face at the
recollection of those same kind words so
gently spoken, a fervent blessing went
forth from his very heart and soul in the
lowly muttered words ^' God bless her;
she must be a good woman, I think ! "

CHAPTER XII.

SUNSHINE BEFORE STORM.

I desire your good,
But, plot as I may', I can find no way-how
a blow should fall, such as falls on men,
Nor prove too much for your womanhood."

The Worst of It.

The hot August sun blazed down with
undiminished vigour next day on the
heads of Mr. Dumaresque and his young
wife, when an hour after koch found them
starting for a long drive, with the intention
of inspecting the county town, and
other objects of interest to local residents.
Madge was charioteer, and her early
training in the haute ecole stood her
in some stead, for she found little difficulty

now in carrying the thoroughly-broken
stepper which had been bought
for her especial use. Moreover, she
looked well driving, plainly dressed in
neat grey homespun from head to foot ;
and as the showy, well-bred chestnut
horse she drove, bent beneath her Hght
hand on the reins and stepped with
additional vigour, as if proud of his new
owner, Geoffry Dumaresque was fain to
acknowledge to himself, with almost a
sigh, ^^no fairer woman ere was seen"
than this, his wife.

^' Geoff, how grave you look!" exclaimed
Madge's joyous voice. '' You're
enough to give one bad spirits for ever
and a day. Very different to my little
swill o' the Wisp' here," added she,
patting with her whip the restless little
chestnut who was shying and dancing at
every real and imaginary object which he

VOL. II. 28

met en route, *' for he's quite determined
to have a ' good time ' to-day and so
am I."

'^ So I see," answered Geoffry, smiling
back at the brightly beautiful face turned
to him. ^^ But take care, Madge; he's
rather a treacherous brute is this little
chestnut, and though all he does is from
fun, it is decidedly * horse play ' sometimes.
He gave me plenty to do yesterday
morning when I drove him to the
station, and had I known of his lighthearted
disposition before, I should not
have bought him for you, I can tell
you."

^*0h nonsense, Geoff, he's a charming
little beast, and I won't let you speak
evil of him. It'll soon take his spirits
down, dragging me about these nasty
heavy roads, I'm sure ! "

swell, as long as he doesn't tke you,

or make you nervous, I don't care," said
the young husband with solicitude.

'nervous," laughed Madge, gaily;
^'I never was that in my life except
once, when the big drum behind him
frightened a new piebald leader just in
the narrow streets of a town, and he
backed bodily into a jam and tart shop.
And then I only trembled for the windows
and the tarts, because I feared
having to pay the damage out of my
salary."

Geoffry looked as gloomy as any allusion
to her past Kfe of toil, which the girl
so honestly and innocently prided herself
upon, usually made him ; and with quick
intuition his companion changed the subject
at once.

'^ Geoff, did you say that some one was
coming to see you tomorrow ? "

*^ Yes, our family lawyer is coming over

from Hevershani to see me tomorrow
morning ; " and again young Mr. Duma-rescue
sighed involuntarily as lie remembered
for whom the provision was to be
made, the arrangement of which necessitated
the man of law's presence.

^' How vexing ! I wanted you to take
me to the keeper's cottage on the other
side of the big wood tomorrow morning,
to see all the yoimg pheasants you told
me about."

'* Never mind, dear. We'll go there
later in the day, after Parchment has
gone; it will be cooler then for walking
too. You don't seem to take a bit of
care of yourself, Madge," he said with
anxious reproach.

'* Every bit as much as I'm worth,"
laughed the girl, righting "Will o' the
Wisp" with a judicious touch of the
whip, as he showed symptoms of wheeling

bodily round at the sight of an unoffending
ass led by an old woman in a
poke bonnet.

*ras much, as she was worth to him?
Ah, how could words or thoughts ever
define tliat^'' thinks the man beside her,
with all the fervid devotion of his weak,
loving heart.

They drove through the streets of
Heversham, and though she remembered
it not, Madge looked once again on the
very spot where her childish heart had
throbbed with the pride and pleasure of
a first success so many a year ago, and
where, all unknowing, the very man who
now sat by her side, had lost his youthful
heart to the little fairy rider on her snow-white
pony, never to find it again in this
world.

^^ The very names of the streets seem
familiar to me, Geoff, though I can't

think why. And that old stone cross in
the market-place has appeared to me in
my dreams I'm certain, for its face
looks Hke that of an old friend ; " and
Madge leant eagerly forward to scan
the said antiquarian remain with deep
interest.

*^ Nonsense, Madge. You're always
fancying that sort of thing now," answered
Geoffry, in the indulgent tone one
uses to an invalid or a child. In truth,
this idea of hers only struck him as a
fanciful whim.

'' No, it's no * make-believe ' of my
own," said Madge, shaking her head
gravely; but just then, a series of renewed
frivolities on the part of the little
chestnut turned her attention to other
matters.

After a long drive, which had embraced
every place or thing worth seeing far

many a mile round, Mr. Dumaresque and
his wife were nearing the turn off the
high road to Beechwarden, when, in
passing by the white wicket-gate belonging
to the little cottage called Riverside,
they saw a lady standing with her arms
leant idly on it, apparently wrapt in
serious meditation.

'^ That's he' ! " whispered Madge, in
ungrammatical eagerness; and at sound
of the quick-trotting hoofs and rolling
carriage wheels, Lady Euthven started
and looked round.

'what a glorious face ! " thought Geoffry
to himself; '' and yet it's not a happy
one," he added, after another fleeting
glance.

And when Cecil, — instantly recognising
in the bright dark face looking so
earnestly and anxiously towards her, the
stranger of the Bound Pond, — waved back

a brief and kindly recognition, Geoffry
Dumaresque lifted his hat with almost
reverent courtesy to the woman who, by
that one small act of kindness to the girl
he loved so well, had raised her whole
sex in his eyes more than he himself
could perhaps have realised.

Cecil, too, felt all the happier, as she
walked slowly back to the cottage, and
sat down once more before her easel, upon
which stood a picture that she fondly
hoped might even some day be admitted

within the sacred walls of B n House

itseK. For it was a striking picture
enough, though as yet rough and unfinished
; but the power of the conception
stood out boldly and clearly, and to an
artist's eye condoned much that was left
undone.

The scene pictured was the celebration
of vespers in some monastery chapel, and

it seemed as if its key-note yere the same
as that of Gustavo D ore's well-known
*' Neophyte," though there the resemblance
between the two pictures ceased.
Here was a dim, shadowy aisle with
vaulted roof, and a long row of dark and
motionless kneeling firm-es, with hands
clasped and faces hidden, all save one.
That one face is raised, and is looking up
eagerly at the flood of light which pours
down on it from the high, narrow window
above, with a wild longing in the miserable,
passionate, dark eyes for light somewhere
— only light !

He is but a boy, and earth looks very
bright and sweet to him still. Is this
living tomb really necessary for salvation?
and can only the death of his
heart gain the life of his soul ? The
answer seems to stand out in letters of
fire on every side, in the motto and

formula of his order: 'brother, we must
die!"

And written on a scrap of paper, pinned
to the canvas, were a few words in Ladj^
Knthven's handwriting, words which had
evidently given the first vague idea of
the young monk's despairing soul-agony —
'for we wrestle not against flesh and
blood, but against principalities, against
powers, against the rulers of the darkness
of this world, against spiritual wickedness
in high places."

Chapter XIII.

THE Storm Breaks.

Tot on tard tout se salt."

Meme. de Gentis.

Der Menscli erfurt, er sei aucli wer er ma,
Ein letter Gliick, und linen letztcn Tag."

Goethe.

*'I WISH that good, prosy old man would
take his departure," thought Madge to
herself next morning as luncheon time
drew near and there were still no signs of
the long interview between her husband
and his lawyer, Mr. Parchment, drawing
to a close. It had been held too with
closed doors and much solemnity, and
Madge was beginning to feel '' out in the

cold " morally and physically, and to long
for some one or something to talk to. So
she sat on the window-sill of the hall and
waited impatiently for the first sound of
an opening door or a dearly-loved footstep
and voice ; and as the moments flew by,
and none of these came to her rescue, she
began to consider her sad case only a
few degrees less dark than hers of the
^^ Moaned Grange," who at least had the
advantage of being apparently able to
express her woes in perfect metre and
rhyming verse.

When luncheon was announced shortly
after, Madge rose languidly to obey the
summons for mere form's sake, but the
instant she was left alone the old listlessness
crept over her, and an impatient *^ I
do lush he would come," showed that one
advent alone, could brighten her heart and
face. Weary of waiting, after a time she

strolled into the billiard-room, wliicli led
out from the room where she was, and
finding a sofa behind the entrance door to
look most inviting and comfortable, sat
down on it to rest and wait, listening
intently for any sounds of approaching
footsteps.

But, sad to say, this modern mariana "
did not possess the exhaustless fount of
patience and of tears which so distinguished
her time-honoured example,
and so, after a time she fell asleep, and
dreamed of old days when she was still
a little child in a tattered frock, wandering
along hot, dusty highways, and
leaning her weary little head against a
cool, great stone archway to rest, whilst
the murmur of many voices seemed
rusting in the surrounding trees.

With a start she wakes. Surely that is
a real voice now, and no dream ? Yes, it

is lier husband's, speaking in the room
next to the one she is sitting in, and for
an instant she stays quiet to hear whose
may be the answering voice.

It is said that on the eve of some great
crisis or misfortune, the future sufferers
ofttimes feel a strange foreboding of the
danger to come, and are conscious of a
sad prophetic warning of their coming
doom. But no warning was there now
for Madge Lee ; and the stride from sunlight
into darkest shade was but a man's
step.

A clatter of plates, an hospitable '' Try
some of this brown sherry. Parchment ; "
and hearing this Madge rises to her feet
with a smile on her laughing mouth, and
smooths her ruffled brown hair preparatory
to making her appearance.

Again Geoffry Dumaresque's voice is
heard. *^ I need not tell you. Parchment,

how anxious I am that Mrs. Dumaresque
should know nothing of all we have
spoken of, until the child is born ; the
shock might kill her almost."

I see no reason why she should know
it, Mr. Dumaresque," and the answering
voice falls sadly and gravely on the
listener's ear. ^^ Until the child is born
there can be no legal necessity for declaring
matters. But have you thought of
another thing? Why not go to Mrs.
Dumaresque, and tell her all which you
have told me, and have the marriage
ceremony quietly performed in London,
whilst there is yet time ? "

show could I tell her?" and Geoffry
Dumaresque's fair young face looks the
picture of despairing irresolution.

'you ought to tell her," answers his
good angel's kind grave voice. ^' I'm an
old man, Mr. Dumaresque, and I've

daughters of my own, just the age of
that poor lassie yonder, and I judge for
her as if she were one of them."

^^ I wish to God I had told her long
ago ! " bursts out the lad in his bitter
repentance. *but I feared at first that
she would leave me, if she knew all, and
that I should never see her again; and
afterwards, lately, I was afraid for her own
sake to tell her."

stake the advice of an old man, Mr.
Dumaresque, and do it noiu^ though so
late. Even let the shock prostrate herat
first, she will try to rally for her child's
sake and be strong to save it. Trust to
her love for you and for it, and speak
whilst there is yet time ? "

^^I cannot'' groans Geoffry Dumaresque^
with a shrinking look of fear in his blue
eyes. ^* How can I tell her, so proud as
she is, that all this while she has been

no wife ? I tell you, that ever since the
day when she so unselfishly offered to
sacrifice name and fame for sake of my
interests alone, and I realised the wrong
I had done her, which could never again
he righted, I have not known one
moment's peace ! "

^' It's a had business, but don't make it
worse, Mr. Dumaresque, if you'll pardon
my plain speaking. Go to her, tell her
that the marriage ceremony was invalid
and must at once be gone through again,
and trust to her true noble heart to forgive
you all. A woman who could voluntarily
suffer as she must have done, for your
sake, will be equally strong in bearing involuntary
suffering, or I mistake me
much ! "

A strange low inarticulate sound breaks
forth from behind the half-closed door
beyond, but so low that neither man

VOL. n. 29

hears it. It is like the cry of one suffering
from the effects of some horrible
dream, struggling vainly to find voice to
speak, but the words will not come.

*'I know you are right. Parchment,
and I'll take your advice, I think," says
Geoffry Dumaresque at last, in a tone of
steady decision.

^^You won't regret it, Mr. Duma-rescue,"
answers the lawyer kindly.
'sand of course I shall be prepared to
act instantaneously in the way of making
every necessary preparation when you
once tell me to begin doing so," he adds
rising.

'rare you off? I'll drive with you to
Heversham I think, and sign those things
you want at once. Mrs. Dumaresque is
out — at least she is nowhere in the house
that I can find, and to tell you the truth,
I'd sooner not meet her until I tell her
all."

'but you icill tell lier ? " Geoffry's
evident despise for procrastination makes
the lawyer a shade suspicious of his
probable strength of mind.

I swear I will, Parchment. She is
all the world to me and if I lose her now,
God help me ! But I will be true and
honourable at last, and trust to her to
forgive me."

Again that low inarticulate cry, full of
a soul's wild speechless agony ! Ah, why
cannot it penetrate to Geoffry Duma-rescue's
ears, that he may tm*n and seethe
agonised entreaty of the outstretched
arms and pleading face ? But Madge
Lee has neither power to move or cry
out, the shock has seemingly stilled the
very life in her body, only the heart is
living on in its dire agony.

There comes to her the sound of a
closing door, and of receding voices, a

cry of '^ Madge ! Madge ! where are you?"
re-echoes through the house, and she
dumbly answers it by a weak, piteous,
effort to rise, but all in vain. She hears
the sound of a carriage on the gravel
drive before the hall door, the clattering
of hoofs and scattering of gravel, as
'will o' the Wisp" is evidently indulging
in his old tricks once more, the fast
receding sound of carriage-wheels disappearing
into the far distance, and then
with a low moan of impotent anguish
she falls prostrate on the floor, mercifully
insensible to all things bad or good.

A great quiet reigned over the old
house of Beechwarden, — the lull before
the storm. Outside, flowers bloomed,
birds sang, the sun shone, and the drowsy
sweet-scented summer air pervaded heart
and soul with serene content; inside, there
seemed a deathly stillness, befitting the
last weary struggle of a dying heart.

But the peace was soon broken. A
message came in lot haste, telling of
a terrible accident to Beechwarden's
young master, — a confused account of a
frightened horse, an overturned carriage,
and a young man lying on the road with
white still face and blue eyes closed for
oyer, and that was all.

All? But who was to tell her? the
servants whispered to each other, fearfully
; and even as they spoke, a girl with
white wan face and despairing eyes,
passed by them like a shadow.

"Can she know?" was the silent
wonder of all, but none spoke.

"What is it?" says Madge, turning
round at last to face the crowd of
frightened faces. More than one there
present notices the strange want of
interest and absence of fear which is
apparent in her tone.

'ma'am, there has been an accident,"
stammers the old housekeeper hurriedly
'' Mr. Dumaresque has been thrown out
of the carriage;" the woman stops and
her voice dies away in a sob.

"Will none of you tell me what it all
means?" says Madge, in the same odd,
constrained tone as before.

"Well, ma'am, you see, it was just as
we got near the railway station," begins
a groom, whose livery is torn and covered
with dust, and whose face looks shocked
and terrified beyond words ; " and that
little chestnut 'horse, 'e took fright at the
London express which came by just then
and bolted down a side-road, and ran into
a coal cart standing there. And the dogcart
tilted over, so that master fell outright
on 'is 'eat, you see, ma'am."

For a moment there is no answer.
The wondering servants cannot comprehend

this strange unnatural stillness,
and look at each other in fear. How
can they know that the heart which
they essay to fathom is already broken?
There is a limit to human suffering
beyond which even fresh x^ain can leave
no mark.

^'Is he dead?" the dreaded question
comes at last.

'eyes, yes, my dearie," murmurs the
old housekeeper, taking Madge by the
arm and leading her away like a child ;
but she need have feared no resistance
from the passive swaying form of the
miserable girl, for once more a merciful
oblivion stole over her senses and lulled
the terrible aching agony in her heart,
and she lay hour after hour, in a state of
semi-unconsciousness, knowing nothing,
hearing nothing, feeling nothing, — blind
even to all pain and sorrow.

Chapter Xii.

THE Found POND.

** Gone ! wholly gone ! How cold and dark,
A cheerless world of hope bereft,
The beacon quenched, and not a spark,
In all the dull grey ashes left.

** Ay, if the cup be crushed and spilt,
More than the sin, the loss I rue ;
And if the cloud was black with guilt
The silver light of love shone through.

And though the price be maddening pain.
One half their raptures to restore,
And live but half those hours again,
I'd pay the cruel price once more.

Dreams ! dreams ! Not backward flows the tide
Of life and love. It cannot be.
Well ! thine the triumph and the pride.
The suffering and the shame for me."

Void.

It was past midnight when at last Madge
awoke from her almost unconscious sleep,
and she sat up in bed and stared

blankly around her. The sound of some
sleeper breathing near attracted her
attention, and her eyes fell on an impromptu
couch arranged at the foot of
her bed, whereon lay quietly sleeping the
young housemaid who as yet had been
Madge's own attendant since her arrival
at Beechwarden. The girl had feared to
leave her mistress all alone, and so had
evidently taken off her dress and lain
down on the sofa to snatch what rest she
could, relying on being easily aroused by
the first sound or sign of movement on
the part of the latter.

But, weary with the excitement of the
past day, and rendered heavy and drowsy
by the many tears which her kind heart
had caused her to shed, she heard
nothing, saw nothing, when a small,
trembling figure crept stealthily out of
bed, and began to dress in hot haste. ^

There was no one to mark the feverish
agony in the wild dark eyes, the unnatural
strength of the hands, as they
tore rather than Hated each garment as it
was wanted in turn ; no ear heard the
incessant mutter, '' I must go, I must go.
"We shall have no right here, neither my
child nor I. Oh, the shame ! the shame ! "
in despairing heartbroken accents over
and over again.

With the quick, cunning instinct of
her gipsy blood, Madge throws aside her
richer garments and dons the plain cotton
dress of the sleeping girl beside her.
Then with a large grey shawl wrapped
close around her, she glides noiselessly
out of the door, down the stairs, and past
the very room where lie now lies, stiff and
stark ; but in her feverish madness she
remembers this not, neither heeds, and
the sad moaning creak of the big hall

door, as it revolves slowly on its hinges,,
is the only sound of farewell which accompanies
Madge Lee out into the darkness
of the night.

For a few hours after sunrise all was
wonder and confusion in the household at
Beechwarden ; then their mistress's disappearance
was more or less explained to
them as the secret of her true position
there became unavoidably disclosed.
Even Mr. Parchment, though his kind
heart sorrowed much for the desolate
girl, and he took every pains, for sheer
charity's sake, to ascertain where she was
to be found, felt powerless to do much in
the matter; for the deed prepared the
very day on which Geoffry Dumaresque
came to an untimely end, had never been
signed, and so no provision had been
made for the future of either mother or
child, and the next heir to Beechwarden^

Alan Dering, was far away in India, and
out of reach of all consultation.

So, though there were many to wonder,
there were few to care what became of
poor ill-fated Madge, and even Lady
Euthven's anxious zeal on her behalf
met with but little help or encouragement.


What mattered it to the world at large
that not twenty miles distant, on a pallet
bed in the workhouse of a large manufacturing
town, lay a mother and her
newly-born child ? or that the pale wan
face, tossing to and fro in restless delirium,
was the face of Geoffry Duma-rescue's
idolised love ? It was but one
more miserable woman, one more act in
the tragedies of this world ; what need to
lament over so very common a case —
would not the hours bring .many more
such ?

And so she struggled back to life once
more, though scarce to reason ; and
when the time came, that, with a small
pittance in her hand, Madge Lee was
bidden to depart and go on her way, with
her baby at her breast, — a strange and unconquerable
desire took possession of her
to have one last look at the scene of her
past happiness.

At first the hot sun and the glaring
chalky highway seemed to dazzle and
perplex her ; and, though fairly strong
now, her limbs seemed to have lost all
their old freedom and elasticity, and she
dragged herself wearily along like one
who carries a burthen almost too heavy
to bear.

And yet the burden was light enough.
A little pinched, fretful, baby face peered
out from under the grey shawl now ; a
low, melancholy, crooning cry made itself
heard incessantly.

^' Hush, liusli 1 " murmured the girl
fondly, patting the ugly little head with
gentle hand ; but the wail ceased not,
and neither did the sun allay its scorching
heat, and yet Madge Lee tramped on
resolutely and untiringly.

^^ What a pretty girl!" remarked a
gentleman to his wife, as they drove past
her on the road.

eyes; but how ill she seems, and her
eyes look so wild, too," answered his
companion pitifully.

But Madge neither saw the kind look
nor heard the kind words ; her brain was
dulled and deadened now, and the only
sound which seemed to penetrate it vas
the fretful and ceaseless wail of the child.

Three times she stopped and sat down
by the wayside to rest, and as often staggered
once more to her feet and held on
her way determinedly. The hard training

of her youth stood her in good stead
now, and the tireless endurance of her
race kept her energies unfledged, her
strength exhausted. Towards evening
she neared Beechwarden at last, and
looked towards its distant line of trees
with the agonised gaze of some hunted
animal which sees in the far distance a
sanctuary.

Lady Kuthven, plapng softly to herself
in the summer twilight, little knows or
guesses ivlio is now leaning against the
little white wicket-gate, so near by, and
Hastening to the music with dreamy, uncomprehending
ears.

She was good to me, she said she'd
help me ; " murmured the white wan lips
yearningly, and for an instant the girl
hesitated whether to enter.

But the remembrance of the past drove
her back, for her proud, gipsy blood felt

maddened beneath the taint of shame,,
though in the days when she had felt
sure of her own innocence, this taint had
seemed scarce worth a thought if suffered
for his sake. What the world's harsh
condemnation, or her fellow-mortals' cruel
words and deeds had failed to do, the
knowledge of her unconscious shame, so
innocently horn, had achieved at last ;
for the proud, desolate young heart was
almost broken now, the light in the fearless
eyes was quenched for ever ; the gay,
laughter-loving mouth would never smile
again.

Across the meadow and over the stile,
she wanders on, each step growing more
faltering and weaker than the last, whilst
the baby's voice wails on and on in a
feeble moan of pain.

She forces her way through briars and
thorns, unheeding and unknowing; she

lays the child down on the grass at last,
and sitting a little way apart, puts her
fingers in her ears, to try and still that
terrible ceaseless cry which seems eating
into her very brain.

No food all day, and the girl's weak
frame seems almost spent now; but her
eyes shine like coals of fire in the dim
starlight, and she rocks herself to and fro
in restless, wakeful misery ; and still the
dying baby's pitiful cry, wails on and on
ceaselessly.

Two hom's she sat there, hugging the
child to her bosom, and staring before
her with glazed, unseeing eyes, and its
Httle cries grew fainter and fainter at last,
its waxen face grew whiter, its little
hands almost ceased to struggle.

When the moon rose in all its quiet
glory, and its silvery Hght penetrated
even through the thick branches sur-vol.

II. 30

rounding the lonely Round Pond at
Beechwarden, its rays shone down on a
sad and pitiful sight.

On the bank, by the water's edge, knelt
a despairing woman, from whose white
lips burst forth a heart-rending cry : ^^ Oh
my baby, my Httle baby ! It was all I
had left me now!" and on the moonlit
water, floating peacefully amongst the
sweet white water-hies in their unsullied
purity, was the body of a little child,
whose waxen face upturned to heaven
looked even as pure and innocent as
they.

When morning broke, with the instinct
of a brain almost verging on insanity,
Madge Lee fled from the desolate spot,
and going to a farmhouse, begged for
food. All day she wandered about in
lonely fields and copses, but the wail of
a dying child still sounded in her ears.

Vainly she strove to drive away the
sound ; despairingly she threw herself on
the ground and clasped her clenched
hands to her head, in a vain effort to
shut out all sense of hearing ; the weary
little voice wailed on, ever on, now louder,
now fainter, hut never ceasing.

Night saw her once more tottering
towards the spot where she had left her
child's body, its fancied cries seemed to
urge her footsteps back to the place
where lay the last thing left her on earth
to love, and like a hunted animal that
when night falls flies back to its murdered
offspring unseen by man, the gipsy
girl bent her steps again to the fatal
place where lay buried the last and only
hope which this world had given her.

Swaying, staggering, gesticulating like
one demented, she walked faster and
faster, breaking into a feeble run as she

neared the fatal Eonnd Pond at last, and
still in her ears rang the cry of her child,
wailing on ceaselessly.

^^My God! if it should be gone!"
bursts forth a hoarse cry, and the wild
savage blood of her race rises in her veins
at thought of being robbed of even that
one last look her mad heart was now so
set on, and the sweet, laughing face
wears an expression strangely akin to
that of a tigress robbed of its whelps.

But no. Amongst the water-lilies
there les one poor little broken flower,
the love of which will never gladden
human heart again.

Lady Kuthven, as she strolls out in
the calm September night, so refreshingly
cool after the burden and heat of
the day, turns her steps by chance towards
Beechwarden, and approaches the
stile into the wood. Leaning on it, she

pauses, for a strange wish lias come over
her mind to see the weird and desolate
Eoimd Pond by moonlight, divided by a
very distinct womanly fear of so dark and
ghostly an expedition.

At last, with a laugh at her own
childish folly, she crosses the stile and
enters the wood, making her way to the
well-known spot. It is scarcely more
than nine o'clock yet — too early for
possible poachers or other nocturnal
marauders to be about, she assures herself.


But as she nears the Found Pond, a
stranger and more startling sight than
poachers or midnight marauders greets
her eyes ; for on the edge of the sedgy,
reed-covered bank, stands the tall and
helmet ed form of a myrmidon of the
law, and opposite to him is kneeling a
girl, whose face wears an expression only

of utter and apathetic despair, whilst
between them both, lying wet, cold, and
still, in the moonlight, is the body of a
little child, with a spray of water-lilies
entangled in its arms.

Chapter XV.

JUDGE NOT.

There's a "bonny wild-rose on the mountain side,

Mary Hamilton.
In the glare of noon she hath drooped and died,

Mary Hamilton.
*****
There's a lamb lies lost at the head of the glen,

Mary Hamilton.

Lost and missed from shelling and pen,

Mary Hamilton.
*****
The mist is gathering ghostly and chill,

Mary Hamilton.
And the weary maid cometh down from the hill,

Mary Hamilton.
*****
Too late for the rose, the evening rain,

Mary Hamilton.

Too late for the lamb, the shepherd's pain,

Mary Hamilton.

Too late at the door the maiden's stroke.

Too late the plea when the doom hath been spoke.

Too late the balm when the heart is broke,

Mary Hamilton."

The county town is Ml to overcrowding,

for it is the week of the Assizes, and
more than one important trial is expected
to take place. A pale, anxious face looks
out of an hotel window in a quiet street,
gazing listlessly at the passers-by as they
hurry to and fro.

Lady Kuthven, for it is she, has left
no stone unturned on behalf of the unhappy
girl who this day is to stand forth
and take her trial at the hands of her
countrymen, for the murder of her own
child.

Ever since the night she was arrested
has Madge Lee preserved the same unbroken
stupefaction of heart and soul,
always silent as the dead, never weeping
or moaning. Vainly has the prison chaplain
exhorted her to confess, if need there
be for confession ; vainly does her counsel
urge her to at least state something
upon which he may build his defence;

vainly does Cecil Euthven weep and
plead to her, to listen and to speak, were
it but one word.

The iii hears all with ears that hear
not, sees everything with eyes that see
not, and is as one bereft of speech or feeling
; a dumb animal simply, but in dire
pain.

Lady Euthven has exerted herself to
the utmost to secure a good counsel for
the unhappy ghi who seems so utterly
deserted and friendless, save for her own
true self; and hour after hour, whenever
allowed, does Cecil sit with her, striving
in all loving-kindness to arouse some
sense of feeling in that poor, numbed,
and frozen heart.

The trial of Madge Lee is expected to
come on this very morning, and though
unwilling to be present in court. Lady
Euthven has determined to remain somewhere

within its precincts, to be near the
unfortunate girl should occasion require
it, and is even now waiting for a promised
escort to take her there.

It is three o'clock in the afternoon, and
the trial is almost over. There have been
so few witnesses to examine in the case
that it has only taken one-half of the
usual time, and when the very last of
these has left the witness-box, all attention
is riveted on the opposing counsel.

From first to last the prisoner has sat
unmoved, with the same weary, hopeless
look on her small childish face, which no
longer sparkles in bright, laughing mirth,
but is pale and sad, and deathly quiet.

A murmur of unwilling admiration had
greeted her first appearance in court, but
she heeded it not ; nor did the pitying
words of many a kind-hearted man and
woman in the crowd reach the ears which

were deafened to almost every earthly
sound. Silent and pale she remained
there like one in a dream ; only an occasional
quick glance round the court from
her wild dark eyes, like some hunted
animal looking eagerly for an outlet by
which to escape, gave notice that hers
was still a living, breathing human life.

No shadow of a change crossed her face
when the learned Q.C., who conducted
the prosecution, made his able and eloquent
speech, which seemed to shut out
all hope of her innocence. Link by Hnk
he forged the awful cham of evidence
which would see her doomed ; word for
word he recapitulated the narrations
which swore her young life away.

As his solemn, powerful words resounded
to the farthest limits of the
court, perhaps the only unmoved person
there was the beautiful, wan-faced gui,

almost child, who confronted him so
quietly, — the prisoner at the bar.

The case for the prosecution is now
closed, and the prisoner's counsel rises
for the defence. He is a young beginner
only, and this is almost his first great
case, though rumour speaks more than
highly of his previous efforts. His heart
is in his work now, partly from ambition
to distinguish himself, and partly from
a great pity for his beautiful, friendless
client, whose innocence he cannot doubt.

For nearly half an hour he has spoken
his young, earnest face lit up with zealand
pity; and every word which falls
from his lips is listened to eagerly and
attentively. He draws a vivid picture of
Madge's first days of happiness, of the
love borne her by her boy husband, and by
all those beneath her, of her own sweet,
bright self. Anon he passes to the

terrible day of Geoffry Dumaresque's
death, when the prisoner's mind had
so surely become unhinged ; and he
recounts her sudden midnight flight and
long disappearance from the few good
friends who sought her sorrowing.

Then his voice sinks low, and quivers
from strong excitement, as in touching
accents he draws another picture of a
poor distraught gui wandering to and fro,
with her wailing and dying baby clasped
to her breast. Carefully he makes the
most of even the smallest bit of evidence
which can tell on his hearers ; and many
a sob is heard in court as he describes the
bitter despair of the lonely young soul,
struggling hard in its death agony.

For the first time now, a change has
come over the prisoner's face, such a
change as has never been seen there since
the day of Geoffry Dumaresque's death.

The wild, wandering look has left her
large, dark eyes, the colour deepens on
her face, a soft, loving smile plays round
her mouth, and once more she looks a
child again, the sweet Madge Lee of
long ago.

Not a glance does she give to the
crowded court, its sea of faces is hid from
her sight ; but as one in a dream she
listens to her counsel's stirring words,
her eyes never leaving his face for one
instant even, drinking in each syllable as
one who hears a tale of strange, vital
interest.

At last, when he reaches that part of
his sad story, where the heart-broken
young mother had wandered into the
cold, dark wood, still carrying the wailing
burthen whose cries were driving her to
the very verge of insanity, and appeals
to all there present to picture to themselves

a mother's agony over her child's
death struggle in the dark and silent
night, a cry rang forth, an exceeding
bitter cry; and the prisoner's head is
buried in her hands as she moans out in
heart-broken accents, ^' Oh, my baby!
my little baby ! It was all I had
left ! "

There was a sound of suppressed sobs
throughout the comet, and even the grave
stern face of the judge looked pityingly
down on Madge's bent head, as she continued
to weep convulsively.

Her clever young counsel saw the
chance given him, and seized it at once.

'gentlemen of the jury," he said, in
his clear earnest voice, '^ this is no acting
on the part of the prisoner, no well-timed
display of emotional thought and feeling ;
it is the cry which comes straight from a
mother's heart ! Cast your eyes for one

instant on that slight, shrinking girl,
almost child, before yon; does site look
like a cruel, implacable murderess ? Think
of the days and nights of ineffable torture
which she had endured, of her weary
wanderings to and fro on the face of the
earth, homeless, houseless, friendless, an
outcast from society, and can you wonder
that her brain should have reeled at last ?
Think too of how her miserable soul
must have writhed in sorest anguish to
witness the pain and suffering of her
little innocent child ; think of the agony
with which each small feeble cry must
have re-echoed in the mother's soul, and
condemn her not ! Ye who are fathers,
husbands, can ye not feel for this young
child in her deep despair and agony, can
ye not believe that if crime there was
committed, it was committed when all
reasoning power had fled ? And was the

crime truly committed? Can any one
say of that weeping child yonder : — there
stands that most terrible, most unnatural
of earth's abortions, a mother without
a mother's love and mercy, a dread infanticide
? The medical evidence laid
before you shows that the infant's Hfe
must have almost, if not quite, ebbed
out, ere ever its body was placed in the
water ; how dare we to judge of minutes
or seconds, where a human life is at
stake ? No having eye looked on at those
last sad hours of this poor infant's life,
save that of a woman from whose distraught
mind all reason had fled ; who
can say at what exact moment its little
life was required of it ? Gentlemen of
the jury, I have no more to say. For
the sake of justice and right, for the sake
of mercy, an ye have hearts in you, I
entreat for mercy to be shown to this

VOL. 11. 31

child. But so convinced am I of her
innocence, so sure am I that all the
world will re-echo the fiat of ' not guilty,'
which I pray to God I may hear this
morning given forth, that I leave her
case in your hands, gentlemen of the
jury, with all solemn trust and confidence
in your mercy, and may God defend the
right ! "

A great stillness reigns over the court.
The jury have not left their places, but
sit whispering together earnestly, and
before many minutes have elapsed, the
foreman of then number intimates that
they have agreed upon their verdict.

Then is heard the sonorous voice of the
Clerk of Arraigns, as he puts the momentous
question : ^' Gentlemen of the
jury, do you find the prisoner guilty of
murder, or not ? "

And midst a breathless silence, the

foreman's answer rings out solemnly and
clear : ^' Not guilty, my lord."

An almost sob of relief breaks forth
from the listening crowd, but is instantly
hushed as the judge's clear calm voice is
heard speaking his short confirmation of
the jury's verdict, and adding a kind
word of advice and encouragement to the
pale and silent prisoner at the bar.

Perhaps of all the persons there assembled,
the one who looks least interested
in all going on around her is
Madge Lee herself. As soon as she had
succeeded in controlling the bitter fit of
weeping which the past reminiscences,
called up by her counsel's stirring words,
had brought forth, her attitude and
manner were as calm as before. Everything
seemed but as a vision seen in the
fire, or dreamt of between the Hghts, to
her dazed, half-blinded senses ; and even

the words, ' not guilty,' which to others
were fraught with such deep and thankful
significance, to her sounded only as a
fragment of some waking dream.

Her dark eyes fixed themselves on those
of the judge with almost painful intentness,
as he spoke his few solemn words
full of kindness and warning, hut the
blank expression of her beautiful face
told plainly enough that the shock of
the past terrible weeks had never as yet
passed away, and though striving eagerly
to see light, her whole soul was still in
darkness, weighed down almost beyond
recall by the shadows of the past.

Only once, at the very last, did a more
human look cross Madge Lee's face,
brought there by a simple act of kindness.


The attendant gaolers motioned to her
kindly to leave the court, that she was

free ; but Madge looked from one strange
face to the other crowding round her, and
shrank back involuntarily towards her old
captors.

Her young counsel came forward
hastily and exclaimed, ^^Has she no one
to take care of her, no friend in all this
wide world? "

Yes, she is imp friend," answers a
clear, low woman's voice, as a tall figure
in black advances to Madge's side and
puts one arm protecting round her.

The girl looks into the new-comer's
face with an intently anxious gaze, as if
trying to recall some lost memory of long
ago ; and then a new light, the dawn of
recognition, beams in the wild dark eyes,
as with a low sobbing cry of, 'lady
Kuthven ! oh, I'm so glad you've come at
last ! " she throws her arms round Cecil's
neck like a worn out and tired child which
has gained a haven of rest at last. •

CHAPTEK XVI.

There VISIONS.

Where the houseless shall seek a shelter, the lonely shall

find a friend,
Where the heart's desire shall be granted, that hath trusted

and loved to the end ;
Where there's fruit in the gardens of heaven, from hopes

that on earth were betrayed,
Where there's rest for the soul life-wearied, that hath

striven, and suffered, and prayed."

Soul Music.

The scene changes to eventide in a far-off
Eastern clime, and the soft light of the
gloaming is battling silently but surely
with the last rays of the fervid Indian
sun which are still lingering over a wide
sandy plain, where the only shelter for
many a mile is a little grove of plantain
and of palm trees, under the shade of

which is now grouped a small party of
men and horses.

They are evidently returning from a
hunting expedition farther up country,
and to judge by the bronzed faces of the
few Europeans who are amongst their
number, and the jaded look of the wiry
little horses which are stamping their
hoofs impatiently at the end of their
picket ropes, the toil has perhaps on the
whole proved almost equal to the pleasure.
Still, one man there, at least, looks little
exhilarated at the prospect of approaching
civilisation, for on Alan Bering's face
rests a weary, saddened look, not alone
the result of a long day's march over a
hot and dusty plain, under the rays of an
Indian sun.

For many a year now has that selfsame
look rested on his dark handsome
face ; so long, that few can say when first

it came there. And yet, to-night, it is
surely blended with another of strong,
but sternly suppressed anxiety and suspense,
the look of a man who awaits
some messenger that brings almost life
or death in his words, to whom he
were fain to cry aloud in his fear, as
did the Israelitish king of old, *^ Is it
peace?"

Fast fell the shades of evening, and
already the bright moonlight threw out
in bold relief the delicate tracery of each
palm-leaf and flower, as it became reflected
darkly upon the glittering sand ;
and one by one, each man there, native
or European, had sunk into a wearied
slumber, dreaming of many a pathless
tangle of forest and jungle, where the
wild beasts of earth take their stand ina
world-long struggle against mankind.
One man alone was waking there, waking

and watching ceaselessly ; and yet even
those many sleepers lying all around him
dreamed not such visionary dreams as
were flitted through his thoughts now !

He dreamed, in his waking dream, of
England and of home ; of an old mediaeval
mansion, amidst a mass of glorious
beech trees shining all russet and golden
in an autumn sunlight — Beechwarden —
now in truth his home. And visions rose
thick and fast before his mind of life in
England, the life of mingled work and
sport which all men love ; of the swirl
and swish of the line on a rippling trout
stream in the ^^ merry month of May;"
of the purple, heather covered hills in
August, and the whit of each pack of
grouse as it rises in affrighted obedience
to the warning '' luck, luck, luck " of
some old patriarch of his tribe ; of the
tramps over stubble and turnips in 'the

golden harvest time ; " of the cheery sound
of the horn, and the joyous music of
hounds' voices on a dull November day,
^^when the face of all nature looks hlack,'*^
and when the flash of scarlet is reduced'
by the exigencies of time and pace into
one ^'thin, red line," and the powerful
swinging stride of a well-bred horse seems
carrying us away from all trouble and
sorrow for ever.

Hark I was he really dreaming ? And
that sound now trembling on the still
night air, was it only the wailing bark of
a hungry jackal prowling around ? Colonel
Dering stirred restlessly, and looked
anxiously out across the desolate moonlit
plain, but all to no purpose ; and, with
a sigh of impatience, he once more
resumed his waking dream.

A change had come o'er its spirit now,
and he thought of his dead wife lying at

rest in her quiet grave under the Neil-cherry
Hills; poor little Isabel, who
had drifted out of life as happily and
aimlessly as she had drifted through it.
He thought, too, of the woman who had
so loyally helped him to make that same
feeble and aimless life at least a happy
one ; and he blessed her in his heart even
as he had done oftentimes before, ever
since that belong, long ago."

It would indeed be passing strange if
he thought not of her to-night. Might
not each minute now bring the long expected
messenger h-om a station which
was distant but a day's march, and to
where his letters had been forwarded, one
at least of which would bring him a
moral life or death. Which would it be ?
And over and over again he repeated to
himseK the few short hues whose answer
was now to come : 'write me one line.

Cecil, to say if I may come home. If it
be eyes,' then shall I start for England
without so much as one hour's delay ; if
it be ^ no,' I dare not even think of what
the future will be to me ! "

Yes ! surely that rapid, regular beat
can be but one thing on earth, the stroke
of a horse's hoofs at full gallop? And
Colonel Dering rises eagerly to his feet
as the sound draws nearer and nearer, and
the moonlight now plainly reveals an
advancing figure on horseback. The
sleepers arouse themselves to bid a low
welcome to the new-comer, who, after
handing a packet of letters to his colonel,
leads his panting little flea-bitten Arab
away; and Alan Dering stands there
alone with an open letter in his hand and
in his eyes the light of a dawning happiness,
unfathomable as the sea.

*****

On this self-same night, at this very
hour, the turbulent North Sea is dashing
itself high in foaming strath against the
cliffs of Ercildoun ; and the grey, ivy-covered
towers look more desolate and
weird than ever, as they rear their heads
above it in stately pride, each turret
shining like silver under the rays of the
harvest moon.

All is still, save for the clamour of the
sea-birds, which rest not day or night,
and the ceaseless sound of many waters ;
all is dark in the old building, too, save
for one light brightly burning in the
ruined chapel which overhangs the sea,
the last resting-place of ill-fated Helene,
Lady Ercildoun.

Far out at sea the fishermen see the
light, and murmur to each other in superstitious
fear, ^'It is the lady who still
keeps watch and ward, praying for her
lover's return from over the sea''

Perhaps there was greater truth in
their low-muttered words than they
dreamt of in their philosophy; for a
woman with pale, noble face kneels before
the altar there, praying to meet him once
again, who inst cross so many a weary
mile of land and sea ere his hand clasps
her own once more.

One more vision, and then the tale is
nigh told.

The scene lies in the simony Hieland,
where vineyards crown the slope of each
hill, and meek-eyed dun cattle browse in
the fields, and rosy, flaxen-haired children
laugh and cry with each alternating
moment's fate.

But a sad and dreary change has come
over the sunny landscape now ; the vines
are torn down and lie ruthlessly trampled;

the meek-eyed dun cattle have been confiscated
by the foe ; the children have
fled, or else have no longer the heart to
laugh and play.

Truly, " an enemy hath done this."
And it is the result of deadly hatred and
national animosity which fills that roughly
organized military hospital on yonder hill
with wounded and dying soldiers.

For the Franco-German war is at its
height. Within a dozen miles from this
very place the ^^ Bed Prince's " heavy
cuirassiers only yesterday have utterly
annihilated a small band of heroic men,
fighting to the last against overwhelming
odds in defence of their tri-coloured flag.
That flag, torn and rent, is now in the
hands of their enemies ; and they, too,
almost as torn and rent as itself, are lying
wounded or dead in a military hospital in
this sunny Hieland.

The hospital wards are crowded to
suffocation this same evening, and endless
rows of hastily arranged beds are
filled with an indiscriminate mass of
wounded soldiers of either nation, and
of all ages. Many are silent enough;
some, sleeping the sleep of returning
convalescence, — some the sleep that
knows no waking.

Here, the rough-bearded face of an
Uhlan raises itself up from the pillow in
dire agony, and wondering vaguely at the
calm stillness of the comrade who lies
beside him, a trumpeter in the light
cavalry brigade, for whom the last call
has already sounded. There, a delicate-looking
boy in his teens, the little
drummer of a French light infantry regiment,
calls aloud on his mother's name in
heart-rending accents, and yet not even
her beloved face could have looked down

on his sufferings with more loving tenderness
than can be read in the beautiful,
dark face of the woman who now bends
over him. And when, soothed and tranquil,
his cries die away in sleep at last,
she who has tended him so long and
so unweariedly, crosses over to a bed
whereon lies the sleeping form of a little
peasant child, accidentally trodden underfoot
by some restive troop-horse, and
throwing herself down on the floor by
its side, she pillows her tired head against
the little one's couch, and sinks into the
dreamless rest of utter exhaustion.

All night long the moans and cries
continue to resound at fitful intervals, but
towards morning's dawn everything becomes
more still ; and when the hospital
surgeon, accompanied by what small
assistance he can procure in his arduous
work, comes to go his rounds, — a strange

VOL. II. 32

sight greets him in one corner of that
great fever-stricken ward.

A ray of bright sunshine Hghts up the
curly golden hair of a little child, sitting
upright in its bed, with the light of
returning health in its blue eyes, and a
half-smile on its rosy lips ; another ray,
gleaming through the high, narrow hospital
window, rests lovingly on the dead,
still face of a weary woman, to whom
death has brought peace at length; for
verily to Madge Lee has the *good
time " come at last 1

CHAPTEK Xiii.

IN THE GLOAMING.

Will they forget us when we drop behind them ?
When we have done with fair and stormy weather?
When there is nothing further to remind them
Of all we thought, and did, and spoke together ? "

In the gloaming, oh, my darling, when the lights are dim
and low.
And the quiet shadows falling, softly come and softly go,
When the winds are sobbing faintly with a gentles unknown
woe,
Will you think of me, and love me, as you did once long
ago?"

Two months later, and towards the close
of a dull autumn day, Colonel Dering was
sitting by the fire in the billiard-room at
Beechwarden, with much the same expression
on his face as it had worn when
last we saw him waiting and watching.
But it was a happier face which turned

to greet Mary Graham as she entered the
room shortly after, though still it wore
the self-same look of eager um-est, a look
which would probably rest there for ever
now, until Alan Bering's dream should be
fulfilled.

Mrs. Graham and her daughter were
Colonel Bering's guests at present, having
principally come to play the joint part
of hostess and chaperon to all whom
it might concern, and on the strength of
this, a hurried telegram had been dispatched
to Lady Euthven at Ercildoun,
begging her to come and join them all at
Beechwarden without a minute's delay.
Eiverside having again been let, rendered
this arrangement the best for all concerned.


*' I've got a telegram from Cecil at
last'' exclaimed Mary Graham, bustling
into the room with effusion.

'what does she say?" Colonel Dering's
face looked lined with a strange,
wistful anxiety, which spoke of a strength
of love and longing known to himself
alone.

That she will be here now very soon.
It seems, her first telegram was never
sent off, through some mistake ; for this
one, you see, has been despatched from

W , and that is only two hours'

journey from Heversham."

'' Then she may be here any moment,"
observes Alan, in a dazed, wondering
tone, which causes Mary Graham to
glance at his face curiously.

But she can read nothing there, and
goes on speaking presently —

"I took the liberty of speaking to Mrs.
Keys, Alan, as I came to this room, just
to beg her to get Cecil's rooms ready at
once. Was that right ? "

'^ Quite right," answers her companion,
in the same dreamy, absent tone. He
was thinking how strange it seemed that
Lady Euthven should he coming to stay
with him.

Mary thinks to herself, ^^ Well, he
doesn't seem to care as much as I
thought, so perhaps they never mean to
be anything but friends after all," and
goes away quite disappointed at the
failure which her news has after all
proved.

*^ Mother," she said, seating herself by
the fire in the drawing-room, and arousing
that estimable old lady from a siesta,
the more sweet because stolen, *' do you
know, I almost think we were all wrong
in believing that Alan and Cecil would
ever care a bit about each other."

*^ My dear, what makes you think so ? "
inquired Mrs. Graham, in the dismayed

tone suitable to a national misfortune.
It was very evident that these two ladies
had been plotting for such an event
assiduously.

^^ Why, when I went in a great hurry
to tell Alan just now that Cecil had
accepted, in fact would be here very
soon, he didn't look a bit glad," said
Mary, indignantly.

'perhaps hQ felt glad, though," observed
Mrs. Graham meekly; and her
remark irresistibly suggested the idea
that ^^ a post sometimes points out the
right road."

*^ I always thought that Cecil Kuthven
seemed cut out to be Alan's wife," maundered
on the old lady, addressing her
remarks partly to her daughter, as the
latter wandered restlessly about the large
room, and partly to her own knitting-needles
; '^ and I never could see what

made him marry my niece, Eosabel,
never ! "

*^ Poor Eosabel ! " sighed Mary.
'^ Neither her brother nor herself were
fated ever to enjoy this grand old place ;
it seems hard."

^^ My dear, it can't be in better hands
than it is," responded the old lady,
always keen in defence of Alan Dering,
for whom her king had only grown
stronger with successive years.

*' I don't say it could, mother," said
Mary, smiling; ** only it makes me sad
to think of that handsome young brother
and sister dead and gone, poor things ! "

^^Mary," and Mrs. Graham pushed up
her spectacles in her excitement, and
spoke in a tragic, half fearful whisper,
*^ Mary, do tell me, my dear, what became
of Aer?"

Of whom, mother ? "

Of her — of she — I mean of Madge
Lee," stammered the old lady, with a
prim mixture of modesty and desire for
knowledge.

Mary had no such modest scruples,
and spoke out frankly, '^ She's in heaven,
mother, if anybody is, I think."

*' Oh, my dear, you mustn't say that,"
exclaimed poor Mrs. Graham, aghast.
Kindly and good as her nature was, she
had a code of her own on such subjects, a
code which admitted not of black sheep
mingling with the white.

^' Well, it shall be as you like, mother
dear," said Mary, quietly; 'but I shall
keep my faith in that idea through all
time. Poor Madge Lee ! how hard she
worked to redeem the past, when Cecil
Ruthven got her started as nurse in that
London hospital."

Poor Madge, indeed! Even now she

is not credited with the truth and honour
which so surely should have been hers !

'' And when and where did she die, my
dear ? " asked Mrs. Graham half fearfully,
for the subject was to her as alarming as
it was engrossing.

'' At E , a little village in Germany,

and only about a month ago, mother.
They had arranged a rough sort of hospital
there for all the poor wounded
soldiers, but could hardly get nurses
or doctors enough at first to do the work.
And they say that Madge Lee worked
day and night with the strength of ten,
and neither fever nor any other danger
had power to touch her, for she seemed
to bear a charmed life. But at last the
end came. There were three days of
terribly hard work in that hospital, for a
disastrous skirmish between the French
and German regiments near there had

filled the whole place with dead and
wounded; and Madge Lee never rested
night or day, but worked amongst them
hour after hour. And towards evening
on the fourth day she complained of
feeing very weary, but there was no one
to take her place, and when the doctors
came in the morning they found her dead,
with her head resting against the bed of a
little child."

^^Yes, yes, my dear, she must be in
heaven ! " exclaimed Mrs. Graham, tearfully,
convinced even against her strictest
precepts.

'' God grant it," said Mary, gently ;
and then, anxious to turn her mother's
thoughts fi'om such sad events, she went
to the piano and began playing.

Lost in her own thoughts she played on
and on, whilst the old lady dozed gently
in her chair, and she played so long that

she never even heard the sound of
carriage-wheels, or that of an arrival at
the hall-door, which lay at the farthest
extremity of the old grey mansion.

Some one else besides Mary Graham
also fails to hear these sounds. Alan
Bering is wrapt in dreams of the past and
of the future, and so can spare no time
for the present; therefore the distant
clang of doors as they open and shut falls
as meaninglessly on his ear as do the
far-off strains of Mary's music, or even
the voice of some servant speaking his
master's name in the hall beyond.

But now a light, firm tread is heard
crossing the adjacent room, the door
opens gently, and as Alan starts up from
his seat by the fire, almost he thinks himself
a boy again, and returned by some
strange stroke of fate to the boyish days
of long ago.

By the doorway, in the light of the
gloaming, stands a woman, on whose face
the world has set its seal in giving toit
an expression of deeper and nobler
thought than perhaps had once been
there; but in little else is she changed
from the Cecil Euthven of long ago. The
same hae-proud, half-shy glance is there
now, with which she had first met Alan
Bering's gaze in the Grahamstown garden
so many years gone by ; the same royally
fearless eyes meet his again, which urged
him on to duty and to right when the
strife was sore and the struggle long.

^' Alan, you wanted me, and so I have
come," says a low, clear voice, the echoes
of which have so often closed Alan
Bering's ears to all other music.

'^ At last ! Oh, my darling, my dream
has come true at last ! " exclaims a deep,
passionate voice in answer, as Alan

Bering's arms close round her fast and
sure ; whilst a tender, dreamy strain of
music comes floating down from the far-off
distance in echo of his low, murmured
words, ^^ Mon rev, mon rev ! "

THE END.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM Closes AND SONS, LIMITED,
Eccles AND LONDON.

/

/^

6-. &' If.

llllilillllii

3 0112 045833933

gm\^''W\jm)'fX

VVVUt>;

'mmmf

mA

•/^r

"■^r^? lie

w'V ^ IJ^t^

5¥:/si

;W;

1^

,**;:

sw*i/ii^^^:^

i^^fife-

ffi
