■HBBHPI

for disciplinary action and may
tllr^Te-ephone C««r. 333-840O

JUL 2 9 «

L161— O-1096

BY

GEORGE FLEMING

AUTHOR OF
A NILE NOVEL,' ' MIRAGE,' ' THE HEAD OF MEDUSA,' ETC.

VOL. I.

Vestigia nulla retrorsum '

ILontiott

MACMILLAN AND CO.


%Z3
Ft3SV
v. /

DEDICATED TO

i- F. H.

(of marigold),

to know whom is indeed a ' liberal education ' in all
that is gracious and good — in loving memory of that
bright March morning, years ago, when we met in a
certain street in Leghorn.

London, 1884.

cs

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

Mother and Son t

CHAPTER II.

Father and Daughter . . . 31

CHAPTER III.

The Young Master . . . .76

CHAPTER IV.

The Circle Barsanti . . . .106

CHAPTER V.

Retrospective . . . . .134

CHAPTER I.

MOTHER AND SON.

It was nearly five o'clock of a raw and
windy afternoon in the month of March,
187- when a young man, Bernardino de
Rossi by name, came hastily out of an
inner room of the Telegraph Office building
at Leghorn, letting the heavy swinging
door close sharply behind him with a
disagreeable sound.

The room which he entered was one
reserved for the use of the Government
clerks. Its floor was bare ; its high walls,

painted the same dull uniform yellow as the
vol. 1. B

rest of the building, were lighted from
above by a row of small square windows,
crossed with rusty bars of iron — an arrangement
which involuntarily suggested a prison
ward ; and there was little to contradict this
fancy in the appearance of the line of high
desks ranged along three sides of the room,
or in the expression of the figures bending
over them. The names and dates and
rude caricatures scrawled over every available
space of plaster and woodwork seemed
indeed an indication that such absorbed
industry was not the invariable rule ; but
on that especial afternoon a dead silence
prevailed. To one accustomed to the
ways of the place it was a significant
silence, broken only by the monotonous
ticking of the telegraph wires heard
through the half-open door of the adjoining

room, and the rapid scratching of many
pens.

At De Rossi's entrance one of the
younger clerks, a mere lad, with pale watery
eyes and a Jewish profile, looked up from
his writing.

'Well, Dino?' he murmured anxiously.
De Rossi glanced at him and hesitated.
It is all right. Only— I'm off.'
Not — not dismissed, Dino ? '
1 Dismissed. Turned out. Turned off.
Sent away without a character, like a bad
cook. Put it any way you prefer it, it all
comes to the same thing. But it really
does not matter in the least. It was sure
to come to that in the end. There is nothing
for — for any one to be sorry about.
So don't trouble — don't let any one trouble
himself on my account,' the young man

added rapidly, his face lighting up with a
sudden very pleasant smile.

< But— Dino '

1 Who is making that noise ? I ask you,
who is making that noise there ? By
Heaven ! you are enough to drive a man
mad amongst you. Chatter ! chatter ! chatter!
Nothing but gossip and chatter, like
a parcel of idle women after mass. Government
employees you call yourselves ; my
word, it is a useful kind of employment
that interposed the large pale-faced man,
who occupied a desk by himself, in the
warmest corner, beside the stove, at the far
end of the room. ' You were not speaking ?
Don't tell me, sir. I say you are always
speaking — and to no purpose. Chatter,
chatter, chatter ! and slamming doors — — '

Come, come, Sor Checco. Come now ;

the lads mean no harm by it. Ill answer
for them. They mean no harm,' observed
another large, middle-aged individual, who
was elaborately filling up an empty telegraph
form, standing beside one of the
desks provided for the use of the public.
He spoke in a good-natured, husky voice.
Despite the cold, the yellow fur collar of his
enormous cloak was thrown wide open upon
his shoulders, and from time to time he
paused heavily in his writing, to rub his
forehead with the blue and red checked
handkerchief which he carried, rolled up ina
ball, in his left hand. ' And as for their
talking — as for their talking,' he went on
soothingly, ' why, what can you expect ?
Every donkey prefers his own bray. And
our young friend's little accident with the
door there '

Accident ! accident ! Who believes in
accidents ? Any fool can call a thing an
accident,' retorted Sor Checco, with increasing
irritation, standing up and giving
an impatient push to his chair. The chair
immediately slipped back against the
nearest end of the fender, bringing the fire-irons
to the ground with a loud rattle and
crash.

There was a general laugh at the head
clerk's expense, under cover of which Dino
walked quietly over to his old place under
the window, unlocked a drawer with a key
which he took from his pocket, and began
putting together some loose papers and a
manuscript book.

One by one the clerks suspended their
work, turning their heads to watch him,
but no one ventured to speak again until

worthy Sor Giovanni — having written out
his despatch and read it over carefully,
checking off each word on the thick square
fingers of his right hand — turned about
with a satisfied air, and catching sight of
young De Rossi's occupation, ' Why, lad,
lad,' he said, reprovingly, ' you're never
packing up your things to go on account
of six cross words and a sour look ? Come,
come, my boy, leave that sort of thing to
the women folk — God bless them ! But a
man can't afford to catch fire every time he
strikes a match. Come now. Here is
something different for you to do. Why,
lad, if bad temper were a fever there
wouldn't be hospitals enough to hold us
all. Come now. Send off this despatch
for me like a good fellow. And no nonsense
about mistaking the address. Visconti,

Giuseppe, No. 20, Via Tordinona,
Rome. There it is all written out for
you as plain as the blessed cross on the
roof of the Duomo. And here is my franc
waiting to pay for it. Fifteen words. You
may count it over, you'll find no cheating.
I'll answer for it you won't.'

He laughed a good-natured satisfied
laugh, and dabbed at his forehead with
his checked handkerchief. * Come, my
boy,' he said very good-humouredly, leaning
confidentially across the top of the
desk, and pushing over the paper and the
money.

Dino looked up with a sharp gesture of
impatience. ' Oh, go to some one else ! '
he began ; and then seeing the other's
beaming face so near his, and being
always ready to be affected by a kind

word or a kind look, ' I would serve you if
I could, Sor Giovanni,' he added quickly ;
'but the fact is — I'm no longer a clerk
here. My name was taken off the books
this morning. I'm dismissed.'

1 Dismissed ! Why, lad — why, God bless
my soul ! what have you been doing then ?'
cried Sor Giovanni huskily, bringing his
hand down heavily upon the table.

Dino's face flushed ; he gave a little
laugh. 'Ah, that is the question!' he
said, turning away with some slight embarrassment
and beginning to fasten up his
papers : they were letters chiefly.

1 It is the question ; there I quite agree
with you. It is very much the question,'
added the head clerk, Sor Checco, coming
forward and resting both hands upon the
back of the desk. He looked at the young

man with a hard glance. £ Before you
leave — and, as I had the honour of telling
the Director this morning, it is a question
of your leaving or of mine, — before you
leave you will perhaps have the goodness
to explain the nature of those documents
which '

I shall have the goodness to explain
precisely nothing at all,' retorted De
Rossi promptly, standing up and thrusting
the package of papers into the breast
pocket of his coat. With the change of attitude
every vestige of hesitation seemed to
leave his bearing. ' To you, Sor Giovanni,'
he said, looking at him very gratefully, c I
have to express my regret that circumstances
prevent my doing you so trifling a
service '

But — God bless my soul ! But I don't

understand. Come now, lad, what is the
row all about ? I don't understand in the
least ; upon my soul I don't. Why, look
here. Here am I, so to speak,' — he unfolded
one corner of the checked handkerchief,
— ' here am I writing my despatches
as quiet as a sleeping babe. And there is
Sor Checco, poor man ! busy in his own
corner and thinking of nothing. And here
are you '

Dino smiled. ' Was Sor Checco thinking
of nothing ? It would be a pity to
interrupt him. Besides, to him I have
nothing to say. He knows my opinion
of him,' the young man added sharply,
with a sudden light of indignation flashing
in his eyes. ' To the others here, — to my
old companions '

He looked down the long room, but at

the sound of his words each head was
bent lower over its work. De Rossi's face
flushed and turned pale like a girl's. He
bit his lip, where the smile seemed suddenly
to have grown fixed and unnatural, and
turned to a peg on the wall from which
was hanging a long gray ulster coat. He
took down this coat and put it on, buttoning
it across his breast with a deliberation
which could not entirely prevent his fingers
from trembling. He took down his hat,
and stood there for an instant facing the
entire room. The light had almost faded
away from the small high windows, but
there was not a corner of those sordid
yellow walls, not a face among those averted
faces with which he had not felt familiar.
Why, even the chief clerk's fault-finding
had its associations with many an old

foolish light-hearted joke — he had grown
accustomed to the discontent, as a man
grows accustomed to the rough handle
of his daily tool. ' I wish you a very good
afternoon. And — and I'm very much obliged
to you for your kindness,' the young
fellow said abruptly, turning to Sor
Giovanni and putting out his hand. And
then yielding to an impulse for which he
never quite forgave himself, ' I have worked
here every day for the last four years,
and there is not a man in this room whom
I would not have called my friend,' he said
bitterly enough, and put his hat upon his
head and walked out of the room before
them all.

As he passed before the young clerk to
whom he had spoken on first entering, the
boy moved uneasily in his chair, muttering

some indistinct word ; but at the same
moment Sor Checco's voice was heard
giving a harsh command that the gas be
lighted without further delay. ' And 'tis
time surely for more light, when we lose
so brilliant an example,' added a tall
cadaverous-looking youth, who had hitherto
sat silent, keeping a small but wary eye
upon the stormy countenance of the patron.
Dino could remember years after the pang
of bitter and impotent resentment which
made him start and clench his fist outside
there in the long cold corridor at
the echo of the sound of their laughter.

It was a cold clear night, with many
stars and a piercing March wind, which
set the gas lamps flickering in the deserted
Via Grande ; for it was a Saturday, and
all the Jewish shops were closed; and

even the few Christian vendors scattered
here and there along the street seemed for
once to have renounced both orthodoxy and
profit, and were for the most part engaged
in putting up their shutters with cold and
hasty hands. As he turned, with the automatic
accuracy of a man going homewards,
out of 'the main thoroughfare into
one of those many narrow streets which
lie between the Via Grande and the port,
it was indeed a wintry blast which
struck the young man full in the face
making him catch his breath with a gasp
and thrust his hands deeper into the
pockets of his long thin coat ; but what
was this violence of the outer air in comparison
to that other fiercer storm, that
tumult of hurt pride, of wounded disregarded
sensibility, the passionate indignation,

the hundred mad impulses
and promptings which tore at each
other and contradicted each other inside
his breast ? The recollection of his
own last words came back to him, and
every nerve quivered. He could have
struck himself with anger and disgust
at his own weakness in having spoken
them. ' To have called them — them — my
friends V he muttered half aloud. * If
they were laughing at that /' he thought,
and his face grew hot and cold again ashe
remembered their laughter.

It was not until he had actually quitted
the street, and was rapidly running up the
dark stair of a narrow building, that another
thought seemed to strike him with a sudden
power to slacken his impatient footstep
and hold him, hesitating, outside a closed

door. f And the mother ? what will she
say to it all ?' he asked himself, and looked
at the latch-key in his hand. An expression
of mingled weariness and defiance, the
expression of a man who expects to find
but short and scanty indulgence between
the four walls of his home, crossed his face
for an instant. He opened the door and
went in.

First came a little hall, a mere passageway
; beyond that again was a large low
room, somewhat empty of furniture, with
blackened rafters which divided the ceiling
into squares. The walls were whitewashed,
scrupulously clean, and quite
devoid of character, but here and there a
touch of faded colour, — the blurred outline
of a flying figure, some heavy tracery of

fruit or flower, or line of tarnished gold,
vol. i. c

still spoke of the original painting of the
roof. Facing the door a narrow window
led out upon a rickety iron balcony, high
hung beneath the eaves of the old house,
and from thence in the daytime the view
was superb, stretching across the Old Port
and the New, over the sea, to the pale
vision-like peaks of Carrara.

But to-night the curtain was close drawn.
A single oil lamp, with a long wick, was
burning on the mantelpiece ; its light fell
upon the bent gray head of an elderly
woman, who was knitting busily, and only
occasionally moving a little to cast an
anxious glance at the contents of an earthen-vessel
which stood before the fire.

She looked up, with an air of almost
painful suspense in eyes which had once
been celebrated for their beauty, and which,

even yet, shone clear and dark beneath the
troubled brows ; she looked up, still holding
her knitting with both hands, as her
son entered.

c Well, Dino ? ' she said breathlessly.

'Well, mother. You see I was not
mistaken. I thought I should come home
rather later to-night,' the young man
answered, with an attempt at speaking
easily. He came and stood before the fire,
spreading out his chilled fingers to the
warmth of the blaze. 'It is a cold night.
I don't know when I can remember so cold
a night,' he said absently. And then,
rousing himself with an effort, 'Where
is the little one ? where is Palmira ? ' he
asked, glancing around him.

'She has gone to spend the afternoon
at Drea's. Italia came for her. It is

Italias birthday, and they said you had
arranged to call for the child,' returned his
mother slowly. She bent her head still
lower over her knitting. 'You will want
your supper before you go out again. It
is spoilt now, with keeping. It has been
ready for you this hour past. I knew
nothing about it. I knew nothing of when
you intended to come back. Perhaps that
is one of the things which you had already
settled — with Italia.'

1 Dear mother, I am so sorry. But
indeed it was unavoidable said Dino
soothingly. He added in a lower voice,
1 Even this morning I did not think there
was much chance for me. And the moment
I heard the Director's conditions I saw it
was all up. They wanted to get rid of me,
my being at the demonstration was a

mere pretext. Don't worry yourself about
it, mother ; pray don't. It must have come
to this in the end. They wanted — they
all wanted to get rid of me. And perhaps,
all things considered, it is not so much to
be wondered at.'

1 Wonder ? Do you think I have lived
until now to wonder at any trouble overtaking
us — at any misfortune ?' interrupted
Sora Catarina passionately. She took a
few hasty impatient stitches, holding her
work up close to her eyes, which burned
painfully with hot tears of repressed disappointment.
Then she rose abruptly,
sweeping the balls of wool into some inner
pocket ; she took up the lamp, placing it
upon a centre table. ' You are cold. You
had better eat,' she said briefly.

Thank you, mother. I am not hungry.'

1 There were potatoes, too, cooked as
you like them. But that was an hour ago
she went on, taking a dish from the warm
hearth and looking into it.

1 Oh, it is sure to be good. It is my
own fault that I am not hungry,' said
Dino. He threw off his outer coat and
drew his chair nearer to the table,

1 Mother.'

'Well?'

She turned her head slowly towards
him, and for the first time that evening
their eyes met, — dark serious eyes, almost
the only trace of resemblance between
mother and son, the only feature they had
in common. * Well ?' she repeated after an
instant's pause. She was still standing ;
now she crossed the room to fetch another
candle, which she lighted and placed before

him. ' There is no reason you should
eat your supper in the dark. It is little
enough pleasure that comes here in the
daytime, goodness knows. But you never
did care about being made comfortable.'

Mother, I think — I have been thinking
of asking Drea if he does not want another
hand at his work. - I can manage a boat if
I can do nothing else. And it will be
something to go on with for the present.
That is, if you have no objection,' said
Dino, still looking at her rather anxiously.

1 And if I had, what difference would it
make ? Will you not go your own way as
your father did before you ? What good
has ever come of my objecting ?' She had
taken up her knitting again, and was turning
it over and over between her trembling
fingers. ' It is the same story — it began

in the same way. It began so with your
father. I have seen it all before,' she said
in a hopeless* sort of voice, and with a half
sob.

Dino looked up quickly at the sound,
and seemed about to speak, but her face
was turned away from him. He remained
silent, pushing away the untouched food
before him, and leaning both arms upon
the table.

'Are you going to that — to that place
again to-night ? I will never mention its
name — to that club of yours ? But of
cour you are. It is the same story over
again. I tell you, like father like son.
And sometimes — sometimes I ask myself
what is the use of it all ? Though I
should work my hands off she said passionately,
'though I work my hands off

trying to keep the place comfortable
for you ; trying to be respectable
and keep up appearances, what is the
good ? As your dear Drea says, can one
man lift both ends of a beam at the same
time ? And I'm tired of struggling against
what I cannot help. Have your own
way. I've tried hard enough, God knows,
but there are no sails will keep a stone
from sinking.' She got up restlessly from
her place and walked over to the fire and
came back again. ' Italia ! 'tis my belief
the girl has bewitched you all, with her
baby face and those great eyes of hers. I
spend my life, I make a slave of myself,
for you and the child, and for what good ?
Why, even the child, even Palmira, it's
little enough she troubles her head about
me if she can get Italia to do so much as

look at her. Italia ! I don't say she is
not a good girl — '

Mother ! '

I tell you Dino, I will not have

you looking at me in that way. I will not
have it. I am not saying anything against
Italia, I tell you. I have not waited until
now to have my own son teach me how
to know a good girl when I see one,
though, mind you, there's many a lass
will sweep out the corners of the balcony
while she's waiting to be married, and
when she's got a husband — you'll not find
her so much as wiping the dust off her
own plate. Not that I am saying that
Italia is of that sort. She is a good girL'

Yes,' said Dino lifting up his face.
And then, as if there had indeed been
some spell of comfort and of healing in

the very sound of her name, he rose with
a new look of light and gladness in his
young eyes.

'Mother, dean' He stood looking
down upon her bowed gray head for a
moment, and stooped and kissed it. ' I
will oro for Palmira first. But I will
come back as soon as I can,' he said
simply. ' Poor mother ! it is hard for
you I know. What you wanted to make
you happy was a very different sort of
son — the kind of fellow who never
troubled his head about other people's
doings, and who would have found out
long ago how to get on with Sor Checco —
confound him S Poor little mother. But
we must even make the best of what we
have. And you will see it will not turnout
so badly as you fear. Come, mother,

dear, look up before I go, and let me see
that you are not angry ; ' he slipped his
arm about her neck, forcing her to raise
her head and look at him.

But although she yielded to the caress
' I am not like you ; I cannot change as
the wind blows. When I mean a thing
I mean it she said, sadly enough. And
long after he had gone she sat still, as he
had left her, gazing fixedly at the closed
door. That door! how much of her life
had she not seen pass through it, not to
return, since the time when the years
seemed long before her and she had
found her chief pride, her chief plaything,
in her handsome boy! Now, it was as
if with every month that passed he were
going more and more away from her, as
the likeness to his dead father deepened.

And the knowledge of this was like the
painful pressure of a heavy hand upon her
bruised mother's heart.

Disappointment, discouragement, and
the rebellion against that discouragement,
and all the weariness of a hard strenuous
nature, for ever struggling, and for ever
thrust back upon itself, were expressed
in every line of her worn yet insistent
face. She sat thus for what seemed to
her a long space of time before she roused
herself to take up her work. But before
she did so she blew out both the candles.
1 He likes plenty of light. They will do
for him when he comes back. His eyes
are young still, let him save 'em while he
can,' she said half aloud, bending her own
gray head still lower over her work as she
knitted on and on in the darkened room.

She let the fire go down to its lowest
ember ; what was the good of wasting
warmth if Dino was not there to enjoy it ?
But, indeed, she was scarcely aware of the
increasing cold, her mind was already so
full of new plans for the future — projects
in which she unconsciously disposed of the
future action of her son as confidently as
if he were still the little child she remembered,
her docile bright-eyed boy, knowing
no other law but the imperious rule
of her anxious and exacting love.

FATHER AND DAUGHTER.

As he reached the quay, and even before
he was so near it, from the steps above,
looking across from the bridge, Dino
could see the light shining like a welcome
behind the curtained window of old Drea's
house. The wind had fallen a little, but
not the sea. The flight of stone stairs
leading down to the landing from the level
of the street was wet and slippery with
the salt spray ; even here, in the shelter of
the Old Port, the black water was tossing
and heaving in the light of the rising
moon. There was a continual movement,

a backward and forward swaying, among
the ships at anchor ; a shifting of the level
of the signal lights.

As he came nearer Dino could see
that the friendly scarlet curtain had a
great rent across the middle of it ; he
halted by the window, looking in with
smiling eyes at the little group by the
fireside. A young girl was sitting on a
low stool beside the fire, with her back to
the window ; she was talking to a child
who knelt beside her and was looking up
intently in her face. The young man
could not see that face, which was turned
away from him, but only the outline of the
dear round head, with its heavy dark twist
of hair ; he could not hear what she was
saying ; he could only watch the quick
motion of her little brown hands. She

appeared to be telling some story, which
the child was listening to with bated
breath. All about them were scattered
books and pieces of paper ; there was a
guitar — an open inkstand — upon a neighbouring
chair. ' Ah, the idle child ! the
idle little girl ! ' the young man said to
himself with a half tender laugh, looking at
those fallen papers upon the floor. And then
he rapped once, twice, upon the window.

Italia sprang to her feet at the sound.
Dino ! it is Dino ! ' she cried joyfully, and
flew to the door to meet him, with two
little outstretched hands, and welcome
beaming in her eyes. She led him in,
away from the wind and cold and darkness.
' Father is coming, and we have
been expecting you, oh, for hours. I know
it has been such a hard day for you, you

VOL. I. D

poor, poor Dino/ she said, in that sweet
low voice of hers, which seemed made
only to express the pity and goodness and
loving-kindness of her gentle heart. She
did not let go his hand : to the young
man's fancy it was as if all the new light
and warmth about him were radiating only
from her look. As he gazed at her it
seemed to him that he had never fairly
seen her before : when she turned away
again, blushing, he started as if he were
awakening from a dream.

■ We were speaking of interesting
things. Italia was telling me a story. It
was a fairy story — out of a book — but
now you have come in and interrupted it,'
observed little Palmira quietly, looking
gravely up at both of them from where
she still knelt upon the floor.

But hush, you bad child. Why, Mira,
surely you would not have our Dino think
we are not glad to see him ? And if we
talk about fairies do you think our hard
taskmaster will not begin to ask us about
our lessons?' said Italia laughing, and
still with that softest rosy flush upon her
cheek. ' There ! that is what we have
done for you, signor Dino,' as she pointed
to the scattered papers upon the floor.
It was I who threw them down there,
because — oh, because I had not done one
of them. And I hate learning to write, it
hurts my fingers ; and then I can't hold
my guitar. And this is my birthday, and
Lucia is coming to supper with us — father
has just gone over to fetch her — and see,
I have put on the new dress she made forme
; do you like it ? But Lucia will scold

me. I have not mended the hole in the
curtain, and I tore it a week ago,' cried
the girl with another laugh.

'Tis a pretty dress. Have I never
seen you in it before ? but you always
look the same in my eyes, and whatever I
see you wear is what I like the best,' Dino
answered, looking at her fondly. He put
out his hand and touched the sleeve of her
cotton frock. ' You will wear this the day
we go to Monte Nero '

For the pilgrimage ? ah, yes. And
this year we must take poor Lucia with
us. And the Sora Catarina ; — it would not
be like Monte Nero if you and your
mother were not with us. Do you remember
the first time we went there
together, Dino ? I was twelve years
old.'

And you carried your doll into the
church for the benediction; I remember '

'Ah, but it was a very pretty doll. It
was the old Marchesa gave it to me, one
day your mother had taken me with her
to the palazzo. I remember it so well :
I had never been in such a big room before,
and when Sora Catarina left me
alone I was frightened, and I cried. And
then the Marchesa herself came in and
spoke to me. She had a long train to her
gown that rustled, and it had gold things
on it, like the dress of the Madonna.
And when she dropped her handkerchief
I picked it up for her. It was fine, oh, so
fine ! and white, like a cobweb, and it
smelt of flowers.'

1 Why did she not give you that instead
of a doll ? I would not have taken the

doll. I despise dolls,' said Palmira, lifting
up her little pale face again from her
book.

As if I had ever been as wise as you,
you little monkey. Oh, Dino, I know I
have been very idle all the week. And
it seems so ungrateful to you after all your
trouble. But I can't write, I really can't.
I am like father, all my fingers are thumbs,'
said Italia mournfully, shaking her head
and looking down on her lap at her little
sunburned hands. ' But you are not
vexed with me ? really not ? I did not
mean to disappoint you, Dino.'

No, dear ; I am sure of that. But
now let us see these famous exercises.
Perhaps they are not quite so bad.'

She gathered up all the books and
brought them to him instantly, standing

beside him with perfect docility as he
turned over the blotted pages. 'Of course
you write so beautifully yourself she said.
And at that young De Rossi gave a
sudden start. ' Indeed I had forgotten.
When I am with you I can think of nothing
else. But, Italia, there was something
— I knew there was something I
wanted to tell you — and, what will Sor
Andrea say ? For I have left the office.'

1 Oh, Dino F

'Not that I mind that so particularly;
but what will your father say ? I came
down to consult with him about it. I '

1 There he is ! ' said Italia, quickly turning
her head at the sound of a heavy step,
and adding hastily : ' Do tell him, Dino —
tell him everything ; you know how good
he is ' — she sprang to open the door.

The first person to enter, blown into
the room, as it seemed, by a stronger gust
of wind, was a small, thin woman of about
forty or forty-five. Her face and shoulders
were closely muffled in a woollen shawl,
which Italia promptly removed and threw
into a corner.

Dear Lucia, how good of you to come
to us on such a horrible night '

If you would not mind — if you will
give it to me I will fold it up properly ;
things get so easily worn,' the new-comer
murmured, looking apologetically at them
all. And then she put up both her hands
the thin, white hands of a sewing woman
and patted the bands of her shining
black hair ; her dress, too, was black, and
scrupulously neat, with many shining beads
and buttons upon it.

1 I am so glad to see you,' Italia repeated,
looking down at the little woman with an
indescribable friendliness and compassion
in her own kind eyes.

1 Ay, it was rough work getting here
for the poor little woman. I left her for
half a minute while I stopped to look at
the boat, zxAper Bacco! she came in ahead
of me in the race. I could not find her out
there in the dark ; I thought she had been
blown clean away, I did,' observed Sorrel
with a loud, good-natured laugh. He
fastened the door and came up slowly to
the fireside, — a short, strongly-built figure,
with a decided lurch in his walk. He came
up and laid his hand upon Italia's shoulder.
1 Well, my little girl ? Ah ! this now is
what I like,' the old man said, glancing
over with a broad, cordial smile at Dino ;

this is the sort of thing that does a man's
heart good, to come in and find supper
ready, and a good fire, and all the old faces.
Who wants to eat alone ? Alone ? Why,
one isn't comfortable alone even in Paradise
; one needs an angel or two if it was
only just for company. The blessed saints,
they know better than to live separate,
they do.'

'How do you know, father?' asked
Italia, with a laugh.

1 Perhaps I've met them. Perhaps I've
had an angel or two to live with — there's
no telling,' said her father, looking down
at her fondly. 'Ask the youngster over
there. Why, Lord bless you, my girl,

when I was his age But there, there,

a sound man is a young man, and the only
old men are the dead ones. What's the

matter with the lad ? What ails you, boy ?
Surely no one here can have been vexing
you ? You can't have been quarrelling
with my little girl ? ' But at that —

Quarrelling with Italia!' and 'Father!'
they both protested in one breath.

Old Drea laughed good-humouredly.
1 Well, well ; 'tis a young sailor who does
not keep ready for a change in the fairest
wind. There's no such great harm in a
friendly bit of a quarrel. And, bless you,
lad ! you and the girl there are too like
brother and sister not to have found that
out long before. There's no such great
harm done, I tell you. Women, they are
like caterpillars ; they curl up if you do
but touch them, but they go creeping on.'

Italia and De Rossi exchanged glances.
1 Father the young girl began ; she hesitated

for a moment. ' Father ! ' She went
up to him and took one of his hard and
knotted hands into both of her own, looking
up into his face with the sweetest look
of entreaty. ' Indeed you are always right,
dear, and our poor Dino is in trouble,' she
said simply. ' He has left — he has been
sent away from his office, and he has come
to his oldest friends. You are not going
to be angry with him, father ? ' Her sweet
eyes were full of tears.

The fact is, there has been a row about
a demonstration. I don't know if you
heard about it. It was last month, when
they were enlisting the new recruits. And
some of the republican clubs got up a
counter procession and marched down the
Via Grande with flags, and cheered Garibaldi.
And then there had been a skirmish

with the police — nothing very serious, but
still It was a foolish business altogether,'
the young man confessed, hanging
his head.

Foolish ? By I call it by another

name than foolish ! ' the other man broke
out with sudden passion. ' Nonsense, Italia ;
let me speak. What does a woman know
about such matters ? I tell you it was a piece
of rank mutiny aboard ship. You ought
to have been clapped into irons, every
man of you ; and so you would have been
if I'd had ought to do with you. So you
would have been. What, sir ; do you
mean to tell me that you — you, a lad I've
known, ay, and been fond of too, since
you were a little chap as high as my knee,
do you mean to tell me, Dino, xhakyoiive
been and joined a company of shouting

fools with nothing better to do than insult
the Government that pays and keeps 'em ? '

If the Government paid me the
Government got my work in return,' says
the young man, turning very red ; ' and I
was not the only one. I was only carrying
out my club's orders.'

1 Then I say, damn your club, sir ! '

Father ! '

Gesu Maria ! Gesu Maria ! ah, those
men ! ' sighed Lucia under her breath, and
grasped Palmira's shoulder convulsively.
The child shook herself free with a contemptuous
movement. ' Let me be. What
are you afraid of? Look at Italia,' she
said quietly, turning her small pale face and
great eyes full upon the young girl. De
Rossi, too, had turned towards her.

Perhaps I'd better go now, sir. I am

sorry I came in. I am sorry I troubled
you,' he began in a formal voice. ' I ought,

I suppose, to apologise '

'Oh, damn your apologies!' said Sor
Drea, starting up to his feet again, and
taking a hasty turn across the room. ' Bea
man, can't you ? What is the use of
apologising— of— of apologising, per Bacco!
for what you are perfectly ready to do
again — for what you mean to do again ?
Apologies ! — yes — they're cheap enough
in every market ; — a good wind to torn
sails. I believe in actions myself; in doing
your duty by your masters and betters,
and not hurting the people who love you, —
not in fine gentlemen apologies — damn
'em,' said the old man, bringing his knotted
hand down heavily upon the table, and
glaring from under his shaggy eyebrows

at Dino with an unspoken world of troubled
reproach in his keen old eyes.

There was a moment of silence, and
then, ' Father, dear ? ' said Italia beseechingly,
going up to him and slipping her
arm about his neck.

Ay, ay, my little girl. You're a good
girl, I know it. A good girl, though I say
it as shouldn't. But not even you — you
can't think I am going to put up with this
sort of nonsense from a youngster like that,
a fellow who comes to talk to me of '

Who comes to ask advice of his oldest
friends. And in your own house, father

Oh, Lord help us ! ' said old Drea
with a groan.

And if you knew the whole of the
story as I know it — I mean why it is that
he has lost his place to-day. Stop, Dino.

I know it is a secret, but I think it is a
secret which I ought to tell my father. If
you knew why he was sent away,' said
Italia, in her sweet low voice, looking
with beaming eyes full of affection from
one man to the other. ' It is quite true
what Dino told you about the procession,
father, but there is more than that. There
was another man in Dino's office who
joined in the procession too. And they
could not find out who it was, and they
wanted Dino to tell them his name. And
he would not. And that is why he had to
leave.'

1 There, there. Say no more, child, say
no more. I spoke too soon and forgot to
listen. My words were like so many kittens
that are born in such a hurry they're
born blind. No offence, lad. There, shake

VOL. I. ' e

hands over it. Lord bless you ; and so you
wouldn't tell 'em that other chap's name —
not to save your own place, eh ? Ay, that
was right, boy, that was right. But Lord,
Lord, what a chap that one must be who
let you do it

'He's a mere boy. He doesn't know
any better. And it does not matter so
much to me. I was not so anxious to
stay — only on my mother's account,' said
Dino slowly.

Ay, she'll be fine and disappointed,
she will. She takes things hard, does
Sora Catarina. She always did from a
girl. Have you told her yet, Dino ?'

'Yes,' he said, glancing over at Italia.

'Ay, she'll be disappointed, she will,'
the old man repeated slowly, wrinkling
his brow, and looking at the fire, while

he fumbled absently in the pocket of his
pea-jacket for his pipe. ' So you came
and told my little girl here all about it,
eh, Dino?'

I told Italia.'

Yes, and he told me not to repeat it
to any one,' added Italia quickly.

Ay, ay. I'll warrant you he did.
Ah, he's young yet is the lad ; he's young,'
said Drea with a quiet chuckle. ' When
you find a woman who keeps a secret for
you, my Dino, you may rest pretty certain
she's got some of her own to look after.
And even then you need not think yours
will last her. Ah, they're a queer rigged
craft are women, and a secret is the ballast
they think first about throwing overboard
if there's ever such a capful o' wind to
make the sea a bit roughish. Your mother's

LIBRARY

University OF ILLINOIS

the only she-thing in petticoats I've ever
seen who can hold her tongue still between
her teeth — and even she can only do it by
not speaking. They're a queer rigged
craft, and no mistake, eh, Sora Lucia ? isn't
that your experience ? You'll have a deal
to do with their tempers in the way of
your business, I'll be bound.'

1 Well, Sor Drea, it's rather like the pins
and needles — there are all sorts. And it
just makes the difference how much you
can pay for them,' said the little woman
primly, smoothing down the neat cuff of
her sleeve.

Lucia likes women better than men ;
they walk about the room without making
a noise ; and they understand about trimmings
remarked Palmira, with a toss of
her head.

1 Eh, little one, and who asked your
opinion ? Little girls should be seen, you
know, seen and not heard of — not heard of,'
said the old man in a voice of affected
rebuke. He put out his hand, and the
child came up to him instantly, nestling
against his shoulder, and rubbing her thin
little cheek on the rough sleeve of his coat.
1 1 don't mind, I'm not afraid, if you do
make a noise,' she said softly in his ear.

1 Nay, nay, child. But you should mind.
Little girls must mind what is going on
about them, else how are they ever to learn
their manners before they grow up ? ' said
Sor Drea, still in an admonitory tone, but
patting the little face near him as he
spoke with a smile which the child understood
better than his words. And then he
looked about him, 'Well, Dino — Italia, my

girl ! — and how about our supper ? are we
not ready for that birthday supper yet ? '
he said aloud.

Italia had moved away, and was standing
beside the window. She was perfectly
aware that Dino had followed her there,
but some sudden new shyness kept her
silent and wondering at herself. She had
pushed back the scanty curtain, and stood
leaning her forehead against the coolness
of the window-pane. Outside all was
darkness, and one heard the sound of the
breaking waves. It was a rough night, she
thought to herself : and tried to say it, but
somehow she could not speak : the words
stuck in her throat, and would not frame
themselves. In that singular moment she
seemed to be leading a double life ; — the
old existence was there, the old safe habit

of home and her father's voice heard beside
the fire ; and here — here was something
different, an unknown feeling of oppression
— an anguish of self consciousness,
pierced with sudden flashes of a new unfamiliar
joy. And yet this was only Dino,
whom she had known all her life; Dino, her
old tyrant and protector and playfellow

You are not angry now ? My father
did not mean all that he said ; he did not
mean to be unkind — to you,' she said
abruptly, turning her face still farther away
and looking out into the blackness.

There was no answer for a moment, and
her heart began to beat faster.

'It is — it is a very rough night,' she
said in a still lower voice, the words forcing
themselves out at last. And then she
turned her head slowly towards him.

She did not lift her eyes to his face, but
she was aware that he moved. He had
been leaning one arm against the window-frame
; her own hands were clasped together
and resting upon the ledge. She
saw him move his arm — and felt the warm
pressure of a strong hand laid upon both
of hers. She stood quite still, breathing
very softly.

'Italia!'

He was gazing at her with all his soul
in his eyes — with a transfigured face which
she had never seen before — he spoke in a
new voice. ' Italia ! ' Was it a prayer— a
command ? The girl shivered from head
to foot. She turned very pale, and then,
slowly, she lifted up her glorious eyes full
of a new resplendent light of joy, and they
stood silent for a long, long moment, gazing

at one another with the full, serious inquiring
look of familiar souls new met in
some strange heaven.

'Italia!' said her father's voice again,
and she turned to him at once with a
simultaneous movement of her whole being.
These last moments were not a thing to bethought
of now ; she put them entirely on one
side with a feeling of definite possession ; it
was something to be remembered and realised
later on, when she was alone. She
went up now to her father and laid her little
hands upon his shoulder caressingly, with
something of the sensation of having returned
to him from afar. Her face was a
little pale perhaps, but she smiled, and no
one noticed her paleness. It is the way
with the great crises of our mental experience
: they pass us by in silence. Angels

CHAP.

visit us for good or ill ; the shadows of
night gather deeper, or our dawn grows red
with promise — and nothing has taken place
which was noticeable even to very affectionate
eyes. It is not all insensibility in
the lookers-on. At every marriage procession,
as at every funeral, there must be
some person present whose chief interest
lies in the trappings — in the workman-like
manner in which the wheels go around a
corner, and how the horses carry their
heads. And life teaches that, as it teaches
patience.

It was some time before anything more
was said concerning Dino's prospects.
When a man's daily food is the measure of
his degree of success in the world, conversation
at table means chiefly an interruption.
So that it was some time before

old Drea pushed away his plate and drew
his glass nearer, rubbing the back of one
hand across his lips with a deep-drawn
breath of satisfaction, while with the other
he fumbled in his pocket for his pipe. It
was only a small flask of cheap thin country
wine which stood upon the table before
him, but he passed it over to Dino with an
air of simple satisfaction and pride, a cordial
and affectionate pleasure in his own hospitality,
which might well have softened a
harsher beverage.

Drink, lad. Don't stint yourself. Wine
was made for drinking. Lord, 'tis one
more reason for not being a woman. Look
at Italia there. You'd think an old sailor's
daughter would know better than to care
for any water that isn't salt-water, eh, boy ?
And Sora Lucia, too, sip, sipping, with her

head on one side like a fly. But there, she
is not to be laughed at, for a pluckier little

woman Lord, how she did fight that

wind ! You didn't well know which of you
was running away with the other, eh,
Lucia ? Well, well, after all, a fly kicks as
hard as it can '

Did Lucia kick ? I should have liked
to see her,' said the child Palmira, looking
up. A smile like her brother's smile lit up
with a sudden brightness her pale, small
face.

Indeed, Sor Drea was far too busy
thinking of his boat — he knows nothing
about what I did,' the little dressmaker
retorted briskly, with a toss of her head,
which made the black beads glisten. Her
face, too, was warmed and dilated by the
sense of plenty about her — the wine and

fire and supper. Her black eyes shone
demurely, the hollow cheeks were flushed,
she had lost for the moment something of
her habitual air of suppression — an air of
decent disappointment with life.

The old man laughed good-humouredly.
Hark to her — hark to the child, will you?
Ay, quick and sharp, and down on you
before you know where you are. She's
her mother's own daughter — in all but
looks. She was always a tall girl, was
Catarina, and a step and an eye like a
queen, an eye that went through you. But
never you mind, Lucia ; 'tis better to bethe
head of an eel than the tail of the biggest
sturgeon, to my way of thinking. Ay,
do your best in this world as you find it,
and if any one else can do better, why, let
'em show you how 'tis done. That's my

way of thinking. And now ' he leaned

back, thrusting both hands into his trousers
pockets and shifting his pipe to the other
corner of his mouth. ' And now about this
business of yours, lad ? '

Dino looked up with a start from his
occupation of drawing patterns upon the
table with a little heap of bread crumbs. ' I
wanted to ask your advice about that,' he
began doubtfully.

'Well, ask it. Advice costs no headache,
boy. You may borrow another
man's compass to steer by even when he
can't lend you the wind. Stop a bit,
though. We'll begin with the beginning,
by your leave.' His face, which time and
exposure to the weather had so stiffened
and tanned that it had grown well-nigh
impossible to detect any of the slighter

changes of expression upon it, his face
looked as rigid and impassive as a piece
of wood. ' It's really all over with you
now at your office ? no chance of making
it up again with the masters ? they wouldn't
take you back again, eh ? '

'Why, as for that,' said Dino hastily,
1 I would not go back if they all came
here together, in a body, to ask me.' He
looked across the table at Italia. ' I aman
eel's head too, sir,— like Lucia there,'
he said smiling. ' I've been a sturgeon's
tail long enough. I'm tired of being
wagged when I'd rather be quiet.'

And so you want to show your teeth,
you young rascal ! ' called out Drea, with
another great laugh, and filling up his
glass. l Nay, lad, but it is a pity you were
not bred for a sailor. You've a good

notion of your own, too, about handling a
boat. But your mother would never have
heard of it, not she. Bless you ! she's been
up too much to the Villa to see the old
Marchesa — by her leave and meaning no
offence — to listen to reason. That's the
way with women : they want a bit of every
shining thing they see. And nothing's
too good for them. It's my belief they'd
use diamonds to fasten up their sleeves
with if they could get at 'em, and think
nothing of it.'

1 1 know we should want to begin by
fastening up yours, father,' said Italia in
her soft gentle way. Her glance met
Dino's as she spoke, and she looked down
again with smiling lips and cheeks grown
suddenly red.

'Your mother was always a proud woman,

always,' the old man went on meditatively,
staring at the blue rings of smoke curling up
from his pipe. ' She took life hard. And
she meant to make a gentleman of you
from the first. She was proud ; that is why
she married your father. And she did not
want you down on our level. She meant

to make a gentleman of you, you see '

1 A fine gentleman ! ' Dino burst out
eagerly. ' Sor Drea, is this fair ? Have
I ever had, have I ever wanted, other
friends than you ? I don't know what you
mean by talking about different levels ; but
Italia knows — you ought to know — if I have
ever done anything to deserve to have this
said to me. Why, all the happiness I have
ever had in my life I have had here,' he
said, with a quick comprehensive glance
around him at the old familiar walls. All
VOL. i. f

the associations of his boyhood seemed
lurking in those shadowy corners. ' I can
understand that you are not particularly
well satisfied with me now. I'm not particularly
well satisfied with myself. It's
not a brilliant look - out for the future.
But why shouldn't I work as well as
another man ? They never found any fault
with my work in that infernal office. Why,
even the head clerk there — Sor Checco —
he hates me — if he owned a donkey he
would call it Dino for the pleasure of
kicking it ; but even he could never find
fault. There's plenty to be done. My
mother, now, her one idea is to go up to

the Villa to talk to the Marchesa '

Ay, 'tis a good plan — a good plan.
Look there, now ! I should never have
thought of that. But she has a head on

her shoulders, has your mother,' the old
man said admiringly, clapping the palm of
his hand down heavily upon the table.
Fill up, boy, fill up, and we'll drink good
luck to her going. That's right and as it
should be. For one works for the masters
here as one prays to the saints in Heaven,
and they know best what's wanted in both
places. Lord bless you ! if one had to
stop to discuss matters with 'em, there 'd be
no time left to work in. That's my way of
thinking. Command chi pol e obidisca chi
eve. 'T would be a poor way of travelling
if all the crew wanted to steer.'

1 Why, as to that ' began Dino, pushing
away his glass impatiently. ' Look here,
Sor Drea. You were speaking of my
father a moment ago. I was very fond of
my father '

< Ay, lad

You never knew him well. You never
understood him.'

Old Drea took his pipe out of his mouth
and looked at it carefully. 'Perhaps not
he said.

1 You never understood him. You
thought he was aping the manners and
customs of his betters, when all the while
poor father! But let that pass. He
taught me one thing, at any rate, for which
I am more thankful to him every day that
I live. He taught me that there are
wants and wishes in a man — yes, and
rights too — that are too strong to be
choked off with a good dinner, and too
old to be taught to drop curtsies to every
fine dress and fine title they may chance to
come across. I'll have nothing to do with it

all, for my part — nothing. And I ' ve told my
mother so. If she chooses to depend upon
the old Marchesa's protection, well and
good. Perhaps it suits a woman's nature
to sit through rainstorms waiting for the
sun to shine. I know nothing about it.
I only know it doesn't suit me. I went
into that office to please my mother, and
I'm ashamed of having been in there.
I'm ashamed of having held my tongue
for three years for the sake of w r earing
a black coat and having the office boy
answer, " Yes, sir ! " when I told him to
fetch me a glass of water. They were
quite right to turn me out for taking part
in that demonstration : it was a foolish
thing in itself, but what it meant wasn't
foolish. And it meant more than they
knew. As for myself,' the young man

added vehemently, with a sudden flush allover
his pale dark face, ' I agree with
my father, if I had the power. I would
make every [ title in Europe a thing to
put into a museum, along with the other
dead things in the dust. I am a Republican.'
He looked straight across the table
at Sor Drea. ' I am a red Republican,'
he repeated.

'Ah!' said Italia quickly, and turning,
laid her hand in mute appeal upon her
father's arm.

But he only patted the little hand
kindly, looking back at Dino with more
of amusement than surprise in his keen
old eyes. 'Ay, lad. We've all been
young in our time,' he said simply.
Things never struck me in that fashion ;
but there ! it's all a matter of chance, like

having the fever. Perhaps if they'd
fastened me up in a black coat and tied
me by the leg to a desk when I was a
youngster like you, things 'ud have seemed
different to me. I might have been longer
finding out for myself that the sun goes on
shining just the same if you keep your own
umbrella shut or open. The good God
lets us do, but he doesn't let us overdo.
Mind that. There's things that are settled
for us ; settled before we were born ; but
it takes a baby a good while to make quite
sure that the walls of the house can't begot
to move by its pushing at 'em — that's
one way I used to keep my little girl there
quiet when she was a mite of a thing, so
high, when she used to cry to come and sit
beside me in the boat while I was cleaning
the fish, and believed she was making the

water rock her by shaking the rudder with
her soft little fingers. Ay, so she did — so
she did

He puffed slowly away at his pipe as if
he had finished speaking. But when Dino
leaned forward as if about to reply, the old
man checked him with a warning movement
of his finger. He was evidently
ruminating some plan, for presently he
added :

I'm not blaming you for what you've
done, lad — though, Lord, Lord, what a chap
the one must be who let you do it ! But
there — it takes all sorts of days to makeup
one week. And I'm not saying you
are not as well out o' that place as in it.
There are some men that its cheaper to
lose 'em than to find 'em ; — ay, and places
too. The bread of service is baked with

seven crusts; — it's not suited to every man's
stomach. Look, my Dino,' the old man
added slowly. ' We are all friends here —
Lucia and all of us. And I've known you,
man and boy, since you and the child there
used to play i' the old boat together. I
never had a son of my own, but if I had
had there 'ud be two of us to keep, and
two of us to look after the little girl ; that
'ud be all the difference. And if you're
minded, now you're out of other work, if
you're minded to come and have a try at
it, lad, why, there's my hand on it. There's
plenty wouldn't let another man set his
foot in their boat unless they could clap
a plaister o' stamped paper on the spot he
first stepped on, but that's not my way o'
thinking. An old ox keeps a straight
furrow. We don't need 'agreements, you

and I. We'll just have Sora Lucia thereto
witness, and there's my hand on it if
it pleases you to say " Done !"

The three silent spectators of this scene
had been listening to what was said in
feminine fashion, watching the faces of
the two men rather than their words, and
now, as they clasped hands across the
supper table, Italia could no longer control
her excitement. Her hands turned cold :
she rose from her seat : she went up to
Lucia and threw her arms about the
good little woman's neck.

'There, my little girl, there. It's nothing
to cry about,' the old father said tenderly.
He turned to Dino. ' There's two of
us to look after her and take care of her
now.'

'So help me, God, I will,' the young

man answered passionately. He looked
at Italia full in the face.

I am her servant. I would give my
life for her, and she knows it,' he said
simply, with all his soul lighting up his
eager eyes.

Her hand was hanging loosely by her
side ; he took the little hand in his and
looked at it for an instant, and raised it to
his lips and kissed it.

I am her servant, if she will have me,'
he said.

Before any one had time to answer there
came a loud sharp knock at the outer
door.

THE YOUNG MASTER.

The young man who entered — not waiting
to have his knock answered, but throwing
the door wide open before him with an easy
air of good-natured authority — this newcomer,
was dressed in the uniform of an
officer of the King's Guards. As he came
into the low smoke-embroiled room he
was at once the brightest object there ; the
firelight caught and flashed upon all manner
of resplendent buttons and knots and gold
facings, and on the shining hilt of his
sword. His long, glittering spurs rang
sharply against the bare stone floor. ' It

is the Prince out of the fairy tale, Italia;
the fairy Prince said little Palmira breathlessly,
and stared with her great brown
eyes, clutching at Italia's hand.

The Marchese Gasparo ! the young
master !' old Drea cried out in a loud voice,
pulling off his round woollen cap.

They all stood up, even Dino, who
strolled away a few steps from the table to
the fireplace, where he began fingering a
small dusty model of a boat : it had stood
in that same place, between two handfuls
of shells, as far back as he could remember
anything.

I only came home to-day. I've lost
no time in looking you up, old Drea. My
mother was not expecting me back so soon,
and half the rooms are shut up at the Villa
the house is as musty as a tomb. It

was so dull I couldn't stay in after dinner,'
the young Marchese said, with a quick,
comprehensive glance at the two women
present. His open face grew still more
frankly bright at the sight of Italia; he
took a step forward and doffed his cap,
and made her a profound and smiling bow.

And this is my little playmate, then ;
this is the little girl who used to go outwith
us in the old boat while Drea was
teaching me to fish,' he said, looking at her
hard.

Ay, she's grown, she's grown, my little
girl has. Per Bacco ! it's six years now, or
more, since you have seen her ; it's no
wonder if you find her changed, signor
Marchese.'

I find her — changed ! ' the young man
echoed, smiling. The tone of his voice

was a rdsimid of all unspoken compliments.
There could be no doubt of what he
thought of this alteration ; and Dino, by
the fireplace, looked around with a sudden
sharp pang of jealousy and wonder.

He had not spoken, but no movement
seemed to escape the soldier's quick keen
glance.

What ! Dino ?— Dino de Rossi ? Why,
man, what is the matter with you ? You
look like a thunder-cloud. Aren't you glad
to see me home again, then ?' the young
Marquis asked laughingly, and was pleased
to hold out his hand to his old acquaintance
and foster-brother, bidding him cheer up
and not stand there sulking, 'if it were
only out of respect to the signorina's beautiful
eyes.'

Nay, she is no signorina ; her name

is Italia, at the signor Marchese's service,'
old Drea interposed, gravely enough.
Young men would be young men ; but it
would be well if the Marchese Gasparo
should recollect the difference, and to bespoken
of in this way by one of the ' patron'
brought with it an uneasy sense of
incongruity : it was like one of the gods
walking upon the earth and claiming human
familiarity. Old Drea probably cared more
about pleasing his young master than for
any other thing in the world unconnected
with Italia. He was very susceptible to
the influences of education and rank. ' Ay,
there are differences between us workingmen
just as there are differences between
the donkeys ; but your cleverest donkey
will only think of seven tricks, while
his master can think of eight,' he had

said to Dino only a day or two before ;
and the fact that 'the masters' knew
best was a quite unquestioned source
of comfort and satisfaction to the loyal,
simple-hearted old man. All genuine reverence
implies a certain poetry of nature ;
there was a good deal of romantic admiration
— the old feeling of the clansman
to his chief — mixed up with the affection
and respect with which he contemplated
his young guest. And Gasparo was well
aware of the fact. He liked the old man,
too, in his way ; above all, he liked to be
liked. All pleasant sensations were natural
to him, and the simple admiration which
surrounded him now was warm and agreeable,
like the sunshine. Things had not
been made quite so pleasant to him at the
Villa. He had found the household un-vol.

I. G

prepared to receive him, the house in disorder,
and the old Marchesa, his mother,
more grimly logical than complaisant on
the subject of his gambling debts. But
here, at least, there was no fear of encountering
irritating criticism. He was always
ready to do a good-natured thing en bon
prince ; and now, as he took a seat beside
the table — it was Drea's chair — and let the
old man fill him up a glass of the sour
wine, it was impossible altogether to resist
the charm and gaiety of his manner. There
was something satisfactory and winning in
the very tones of his voice, in the glance
of his quick smiling eyes, in the firm ready
pressure of his hand. When he asked
Italia to sing him a song, which he did
presently, it was with the air of pleading
for some favour.

1 The child's ready enough to sing ; and
proud enough she ought to be to think you
should have remembered her voice all these
years. But she was always like a little
singing bird, when she was no higher than
my knee. Lord ! how well I can remember it
taking her out with me in the old boat, and
she, no bigger than that, sitting on the nets
and singing away to herself, soft like, till you
could think of nothing else but a summer
morning, when the boat is anchored off
shore, and the larks are just rising in the
meadows. But there ! 'tis I am keeping
the Captain from his music after all,' old
Drea said, with an apologetic laugh.

Italia had taken her guitar from Dino's
hands ; she took it with a smile and a blush,
as she had taken the Captain's pretty
speeches, and moved away to the other end

of the room. Her voice was the lowest,
sweetest contralto. When she began to
sing her face grew serious and composed.

'Why does Italia look so unhappy as
that ? She looks like one of the saints on
the cathedral window, as if she were saying
her prayers,' Palmira whispered into Lucia's
ear. She was awe-struck with admiration
of the Captain's sword, which he had taken
off before sitting down at the table. ' Do
you think, Lucia ; do you think he would
let me touch it if Italia were to ask him ? '
she said.

The Captain did not seem in the humour
to object to anything. The song — or was
it the singer ? — had given him far more
pleasure than he had expected. He told
her so, after a moment's hesitation.

■ Indeed, I am very glad, sir. I shall be

very glad to sing for you as much as you
like, and father pleases,' Italia answered,
looking at him with a great deal of kindness
and pleasure. Indeed, every instinct of her
nature was always prompting her to do
some kindness to some one. As she sat
there on her low seat, bending over her
guitar, the firelight shining full upon her
small dark head and flushed cheeks, and on
the movement of her little brown wrists,
Dino could not turn his gaze away from her.
Another man's admiration is a background
against which many an ordinary woman has
shone clad in unaccustomed graces to her
lover's eyes. But in this case Dino wanted
no confirming in his devotion : it was only
that seeing her there, listening to another
man's compliments, had given a slight shock
to the sense of unquestioning security which

had grown up with him since the very first
earliest days of his love. Already he began
to look back with some jealous uneasiness
at the past years when Italia had seemed
as much his, and as much a necessity of his
being, as the breath he drew. True, he
had never spoken to her about it, at least
not in so many definite words ; that was
partly because she was still so young — only
eighteen on this birthday, and partly too
that there had seemed no need for vexing
his mother beforehand : he had not money
enough to marry upon as yet, and his mother
was sure to object ; she had always discouraged
his being so much at Drea's. But
now all these considerations seemed to go
for nothing, to become futile and irrelevant
seen in the light of this new possibility that
another man could step in and attempt to

carry away his own especial treasure from
before his very eyes. Dino had but little
of old Andrea's capacity for personal reverence
; there was not enough modesty in his
own nature for that ; so that it did not
strike him as so utterly preposterous that a
man in the young Marchese's position should
fall seriously in love with a fisherman's
daughter. On the other hand, there was
always a certain doubt lurking at the bottom
of his strongest assertions of equality.
He had no weight of simple conviction
to steady his possession of the theories
which attracted him the most. There was
always a struggle between his intelligence
and his instincts. Things outside and away
from his creed of conduct appealed to him.
He could not take life simply : there was
the exaggeration of effort in his innermost

beliefs. He looked at Italia : he looked
with almost more than a woman's sensitiveness,
to material impressions at the gallant
and determined bearing of the man beside
her, whose frank and noble beauty was only
like an additional distinction — an emphasis
of class differences. No devout believer
in the divinest rights of kings could have
recognised those differences more keenly
than Dino did at that moment. For there
is nothing ambiguous in the secret language
of jealousy : 'And they say — we say — that
one man is as good as another without regard
to his rank ! I was a fool — a fool,'
De Rossi reflected bitterly.

Gasparo seemed to have a talent for
seeing everything. He took his cigarette
case out of his pocket and asked old Drea
for a light ; then he said : ' There are

changes. Why, even the old gardens up
there at the Villa seem to have grown smaller.
I remember I thought there was no end to
them when I was a boy.'

1 Ay, there's something in a place, but
there's more in the eye that looks at it.
And you'll have seen a many fine places
since then, sir, and a many fine people, I'll
warrant. It's only the little people and the
little places in life that don't change much ;
they're away down at the bottom, in the still
water, out o' reach o' the tide. You'll not
find much change in us, sir. There's not a
question if we're proud and glad to see you
back.'

1 Oh, if there's any change among you
it's not of the kind I'm finding fault with,'
the young man said, glancing again at
Italia; ' only it makes one feel how much

time has passed. Why, you must be getting
an old man now yourself, Drea — beginning
to think about giving up work and settling
down for a bit — while you look out for a
husband for Italia. You'll need to find a
good fellow. But perhaps you have done
that already.'

Nay, as for that, — the little girl can
wait for a bit, — she can wait a bit yet,' her
father answered slowly, taking his pipe
out of his mouth and knocking the ashes
on the table. ' Our girls are not like the
young ladies you're accustomed to, sir, —
with nothing to do but sit in their chairs
while they pick and choose. Gentlefolks
Lord bless you! they've got one paradise
here on earth, and, as for the other
one, they've got plenty o' money to spend
in masses — they've only got to pay for it.

But with us 'tis different, you see.' He
took up his glass of wine, looked at it
thoughtfully for a moment, and then
emptied its contents down his throat with
a sudden jerk of his wrist. ' And I'd
never be one to urge a girl to jump at the
first comer,' he said cheerfully, leaning
across the narrow table to emphasise his
remark. ' No, no, patience never spoilt
any man's luck. And the biggest fish —
they're often nearest the bottom — they're
nearest the bottom, eh, Sora Lucia ?'

1 Gesu Maria! how should / know?'
the little woman murmured hurriedly, with
an apologetic look at the young Marchese.
1 In my time we did not think these things
should be discussed before young — young
persons,' she said primly ; it would have
seemed a familiarity to her if she had used

a common expression such as, ' before
young girls.'

1 Nay, nay, Lucia mza, you won't make
us swallow that ! ' retorted Sor Drea, with
another chuckle of supreme good humour.
You won't make us swallow it, my dear.
For you'll sooner find an old man without
an ache than a young girl without a lover,
eh, signor Marchese ? 'Tis the good
Lord who made us all, who chose to make
us in that way, and where's the harm in
speaking of it ?' He filled his glass up
with a more unsteady hand. ' There's
Dino over there looking at me like a
black thunder-cloud, — but I suppose I may
say what I like about my own daughter
in my own house, — eh, boy ?'

I was not contradicting you, Sor
Drea,' the young man answered quietly.

THE YOUNG MASTER. 93

Nay, lad, nay, I meant no malice.
But it's a poor sort of business to waste
your breath whistling for yesterday's
breeze. Cheer up, lad ! There's always
plenty o' good work to the fore when a
mans ready to do it. Ready and cheery,
even the dog can earn his dinner by
wagging his tail.'

Gasparo laughed. 'Well, I must be
going,' he said, and stood up and put out
his hand for his belt and sword. As he
was buckling it about him his eye fell
upon Palmira's pale intent little face. He
sat down again.

k Come here, child,' he said, and held
out his hand.

Go to the gentleman, Palmira. Go
and tell him what your name is, like a
good little girl, and don't be frightened,'

said Lucia hastily, with a general tug at
the child's frock.

Palmira looked at her with flashing
eyes. ' I am not frightened she said
indignantly, and went and stood composedly
beside Gasparo's knee.

When he asked, ' Shall I show you my
sword ?' her eyes flashed again. She
held her breath, and the colour rose in her
thin little cheeks.

'May I touch it ?' she asked, and drew
one small forefinger carefully across the
shining blade. After a moment's consideration,
' Have you killed many giants
with it?' she said; 'you know — like the
fairy Prince.'

1 Ay, hark to that, will you ? there's a
brave little girl for you ! ' said old Drea
with an inward chuckle, and an irrepressible

wink at Dino. 'She'd kill giants,
would she ? It's her mother all over.'

Gasparo laughed again. ' And what
do you know about the fairy Prince ?'

1 Italia told me. He wore shining
clothes, and a sword, and he carried away
the Princess from the enchanted tower.
And he was beautiful to look at, — like
you, Italia said '

1 Palmira !'

1 Look here, my small friend, — oh, your
name is Palmira, is it ? Very well, then ;
look here, Palmira. Did no body ever
explain to you that one is not allowed
in this world to repeat what other people
say until one is old enough to know
better ? No ? Well, then, remember
that. No girl is ever allowed to have
her own way until she is old enough

to do mischief. And now, look here.'
He drew a ring off his finger, a plain
band of gold set with a large turquoise.
Do you think that is pretty ?'

'Yes, sir.'

1 Very pretty ?'

Yes, sir.'

'Well, then, — under the circumstances,
do you think if we asked Sor Drea,
you and I, to let us give it to Italia, because
it is her birthday, and because I
have not brought her any other present,
do you think he would let us do it,
Palmira ? Here, take the ring and ask
him.'

Italia put down her guitar and stood
up. She gave one rapid glance at Dino,
and turned very pale. ' The Signor Marchese
is too kind, father. Indeed, I do

not want the ring. It is — it is too beautiful
for me. I should lose it.'

1 Nay,' said Drea simply, * since the
signor Marchese wishes to give it to you,

child ' He turned the bauble over

curiously upon the curved and hardened
palm of his hand. ' Craving your pardon,
signor Gasparo, but is it gold ?'

Gasparo put his hand up to his mouth
and twisted his moustache to conceal a
smile. ' Certainly,' he said.

1 Real gold ? Divine ! it is not often
that I've handled it. And that little blue
thing there in the middle, has that got a
name of its own ?'

'Tis a turquoise. They are said to
bring good luck and happiness,' the young
man said carelessly enough. And then
he looked with a certain reproach at Italia.

VOL. I. H

1 If I had known I might have found you
something that would have pleased you
better '

'No one ever made me a present before.
I — Father knows that I am not used to
them,' the girl said shyly. She took Palmira's
hand in hers, and began stroking
the little fingers.

Nay, take it, my little girl, take it.
And put it away in some safe place. Keep
it to be married with. 'Twill be so much
money saved when we come to think of
your wedding. And 'twill be a fine thing
to remember — when you've got children of
your own — that you were married with a
gold ring off our young master's own finger.
It was very kind of you to think of it, sir ;
it's not every one would ha' thought of anything
so kind. You must excuse my little

girl if she didn't seem to thank you properly.
It's only that she is not used to
being made so much of; it's not that she's
ungrateful or lacking in her duty.'

He spoke with a simple earnestness
which was not devoid of dignity.

1 1 like old Drea. He's such a good
old boy. There's not a more honest old
fellow in Leghorn,' Gasparo said cordially,
a few moments later, as the two young men
came out into the cold night air together.
The devil take that wind if it is not beginning
to blow a libeccio ! That child will be
blown over the steps if you don't look after
her. Been out in Drea's boat much this
winter, Dino ?',

No, sir.'

Too rough, eh ? Yet I remember you
used to beat me at managing a boat when

we were little chaps together. Che diavolo !
how time flies ! It seems only yesterday
until one looks at that girl in there.
There's a beauty if you like. What eyes !
and did you ever notice how she smiles
with 'em ? '

Palmira felt her brother's fingers closing
with a sudden thrill upon her own. He
did not answer for nearly a minute. ' If
you are speaking of Italia, sir '

Gasparo burst into a wild laugh. ' Oh,
no ! How could you think it ? I was
speaking of the other woman, of course.
Maria — Lucia — what's her name ? Your
little dressmaking friend with the beads.
How she did look at me, per Bacco ! you
would have thought I was in league with
the very devil himself.'

1 The women are not accustomed to

your manner, sir. You must be indulgent
enough to make allowances for our ignorance.
No doubt when they have found
out how much your kind interest is

worth '

1 Look here, my good fellow. You're
my foster-brother and all that. And my
mother is very fond of yours — by the way
you must tell Sora Catarina to come up
and see me at the Villa. But as for noticing
anything which you may choose to
say — why, my good Dino, you are really
asking too much of me ! There ! Don't
lose your temper — and don't swear. It's
not the child's fault — is it, my dear ? And
so good-night to you, little one ; and here's
something to buy yourself sugar plums
with. Good - night ! An revoir, friend
Dino ! '

He turned abruptly on his heel and
strode off down the street without waiting
for an answer, the wild stormy moonlight
shining full upon his handsome face. He
walked on, humming an air from the
new opera, and then, ' Poor devil ! ' he
said aloud, and smiled with an easy insolent
amusement.

Before her brother could speak Palmira
had flung the silver coin upon the pavement.
' I don't want it ; I won't have it,'
she said passionately. ' I would not keep
it, not — not if Italia told me to ! '

She clasped both her small cold hands
about one of Dino's. ' Why did he speak
like that ? and why did he laugh at you ?
He is not like the fairy Prince at all — he
is like some wicked enchanter who has
come to spoil everything. Oh, I liked him

so ; and now I wish he had never come ! '
she said. ' Oh, Dino, I wish he had never
come ! '

And at the door of their house she still
clung to her brother. ' Must you go to the
club to-night ? Can't you wait for some
other night ? Won't you come upstairs
with me ? Must you go ?' she asked wistfully.


Dino looked down at the small earnest
face and patted her cheek. ' Good-night,
little one. Run along upstairs. You ought
to have been in bed hours ago. Do you
know what time it is, and what the mother
will say to you ? '

1 But, Dino, are you going ? '

He glanced out at the dark street.
Yes.'

1 Dino, I want to whisper to you.'

He laughed. 'You little torment he
said, but he bent his head obediently.

I Dino, does Italia know about your
going there — about the club ? '

She felt him give a sudden start at the
question. ' What do you mean ?' he asked
roughly.

I I know that every time you go there
you come back looking so angry — oh, so
angry! And mother cries while you are
away. I've seen her when she thought I
was asleep. And, Dino/ she laid her little
cheek against his, ' Italia told me to take
care of you. " Take good care of Dino,"
that was the last thing she said to me tonight.
And I said I would. I wonder if
I ought to let you go there ? ' the child
said gravely.

Did Italia say that ?' He drew a long

breath, and then stooped down and kissed
her. ' There, run along now. There's a
good child.'

He stood waiting at the foot of the
stairs till the sound of the small footsteps
had stopped at an upper landing, and a
shrill childish voice was heard calling out,
I'm here. Take care of yourself, my
Dino ! '

Then he went out again into the
street.

THE Circle BARSANTI.

The wind, which blew so freshly in from
sea across the open space of the parade,
was moaning like a wild thing, trapped and
caged, in the narrow streets behind the
Duomo, towards which Dino was now
taking his way, with a mind full of doubt
and rage and suspicion. Italia — God bless
her! — at least her last words had been of
him. But to think of her now was also to
remember the young Marchese's look at
her, the poor child ! as she took his ring :
his laugh as he had turned away by the
quay. The remembered sound of that

laughter made Dino clench his teeth and
break out into some wild bitter imprecation.
' I am like Palmira,' he said to himself
scoffingly. ' I can't even hate him,
and he knows it. I too wish he had
never come back, because — because I liked
him so !'

As he walked on his mind was full of
remembrances of their old days together,
when he and Gasparo had been playmates,
companions, and always with that difference
between them. They had quarrelled
scores of times before now, and yet the old
charm had never lost its power : Dino was
always ready to be brought back by a look,
a word, the first word of apology or regret.
Regret ! was it not enough for him to feel
that his dear old comrade counted upon
him, wanted him still, despite all his newer

friends ? ' I let him whistle me back at
his good pleasure, like a woman, like a
dog he told himself moodily, and even ashe
said it he felt in his heart that he would
let himself be called back again. Nor was
he the only one : there was not one human
being out of all the little circle which made
up his world who did not in some degree
conspire to pet and spoil the young
Marchese. ' I'm a hundred times cleverer
than he is,' Dino reflected for the hundredth
time. ' Ay, and better read, better
educated. I can feel and understand a
thousand things, books, ideas, emotions,
which are so many dead letters to him.
And what does it all amount to ? What
good is it? At four-and-twenty I'm dependant
on old Drea's good-nature for a
chance of earning my living by doing a

common sailor's work, while he Why,

if he were to change places with me here
to-night, by tomorrow he would be the
most popular man in Leghorn. Fortune
is as much at his beck and call as any of

the rest of us. And now there's Italia '

He thought how she too would recognise
the prestige of the young soldier's
successes, and in what a different spirit !
How often in their long talks together had
they arrived at the same conclusions, but
by what divergent ways ? What was careless
ease in her, in Dino was pure recklessness
: on the one side was the freedom of
unconcern, and opposed to it the freedom
of desperation. And how could it well be
otherwise ? He was sensitive, imaginative,
unlucky. And he took life hard. He
could never make her understand his view

of it ; it was not in her temperament to
understand it. ' While the sun is shining
it cant be dark ; and she lives in the sunshine
— my darling!' he thought, with a
sudden revulsion, a rush of tender feeling.
And she had bid the child ' take care of
Dino.' He smiled to himself as he crossed
over, out of the moonlight, into the great
shadow of the cathedral wall.

The cafe to which he was going, and
where his club met, stood at the corner of
two of the narrowest streets, a small, low
room, lighted from the ceiling by a row of
gas jets in the form of a cross. On three
sides, against the wall, were large mirrors
in tarnished frames ; a narrow divan
covered with faded red velvet ran all
around the room, and in front of this was
ranged a series of small marble-topped

tables ; three or four men were seated
there, drinking coffee and playing a game
of dominoes.

There was nothing at first sight to distinguish
the place from any other establishment
of the same rank and kind. It was
a shabby second-rate cafe, of the stereotyped
pattern ; and even the police did not
take much interest in it, although it was
true that the landlord professed republican
or at least liberal — political sentiments.
But in a seaport town that was to be expected
; and if Jack ashore preferred
drinking his glass of vermouth with the
conviction that all men are free and equal
so long as they can pay for what they
are consuming — why, it was not to be
wondered at if the owner of a small public-house
could be found to agree with him.

The ' Cross of Savoy ' was shrewdly suspected
to be the headquarters of one of
the branch Societies belonging to the great
net-work of the Circoli Barsanti. But
then, again, these said Circoli, founded early
in the '70's, to commemorate the name of a
certain Sergeant Barsanti, accused, whether
falsely or not, of having caused the death
of his commanding officer during a trifling
mutiny in the barracks at Padua, and himself
accordingly tried and sentenced and
shot ; these very Circoli, were they not
existing under Government permission, if
not patronage ? And if Government chose
to ignore the fact that some freak of popular
opinion had made of the murdered sergeant
a popular hero and martyr, with a name
that was useful to conjure by — in a word,
if the authorities saw fit to connive at the

existence of these breathing-holes, these
safety-valves, so to speak, of the public
discontent, how in the name of commonsense
were the Leghorn police to be
justified in interfering ? And what, indirect
consequence, could be more assured
than the peace of mind and general prosperity
and safety of Signor Prospero Neri
respectable householder and landlord —
actually seated at one of his own tables,
drinking some of his own coffee with an air
of confidence in, and enjoyment of, the
beverage which was more than equivalent
to a testimonial ?

Master Prospero's peace of mind was
naturally a matter of some importance in
his own estimation ; and yet — such a difference
can be obtained in the final result by
so small a change of the point of sight —

VOL. I. j

within a few yards of his complacent head,
in an inner room divided from the cafe
proper by a swinging door, painted over
with cupids and arabesques, a discussion
was going on at that very moment which
would have filled that worthy host with
horror and dismay.

Three men were seated in that inner
sanctum about a small round table ; above
their heads a gas jet, turned up too high,
flared unnoticed in the draught ; there were
glasses on the table before them, and a
dingy carafe of water, and a pack of
cards. But they had not been playing.
Their attitude seemed chiefly one of expectation.


After a longer silence than had hitherto
fallen upon them — a silence during which
the wind was distinctly audible, rattling at

the window-shutters, and they could hear
an occasional laugh and the click of glasses
in the outer room, — ' Who was it made the
appointment with him ? Was it you, Pietro
Valdez ? ' asked the oldest man present.
He spoke slowly, and with a strong
German accent.

The man addressed looked up from his
occupation of rubbing his moistened finger
around the brim of his glass and thereby
producing a series of minor musical notes.
Ay,' he said ; ' I told him.'

And then, after a pause, ' I'll answer
for the lad,' he added slowly.

1 Do you mean for his coming to-night,
or altogether ? ' the German asked abruptly,
fixing a pair of piercing light blue
eyes upon his interlocutor.

Valdez picked up his empty glass ;

looked into it ; then put it down with a
sudden movement upon the table.

I mean — altogether,' he said gravely.

The other two men exchanged glances.

Per Bacco ! I wouldn't do it ! no, not
for my own flesh and blood brother, — not
I ! ' cried the third man present, bringing
the open palm of his hand lightly down
upon the table before him. It was noticeable
that they all three moved and spoke
with a certain caution and in the quietest
tones possible. ' / would not do it. I
wouldn't answer for '

The German checked his rising voice
with a look. ' I have taken note of what
you are prepared to do, friend Valdez.
You are prepared ? ' he added sharply, with
another searching glance.

Pietro Valdez lifted his melancholy eyes

from the table before him and stared the
speaker straight in the face. Then his
head dropped again, and he shrugged his
shoulders wearily : ' I am prepared — yes.
But I look like joking, don't I ? It is so
probable that I should select this occasion
for a jest ! '

I ask your pardon, signor Valdez. I
will make a note of what you have
said.'

1 Ay, notes, notes. But / see nothing
done,' broke in little Pierantoni irrepressibly.
' It is all very well to say the people
can wait. Santa Pazienza ! the people
have waited. They are getting tired of
waiting now. Once, the lower down you
ground them the better they submitted.
We know all that — at Naples. But it's a
mistake to grind a man, or a people, down

too far ; — 'tis so easy to grind all the
humanity out of them and leave only the
beast. And some beasts have teeth, and
object to being baited

He got up and sat down again, holding
his hands straight out before him
and shaking his ten hooked fingers with
a gesture as if he were sowing corn. ' If
you shoot at the Czar of all the Russia —
well, 'tis a kind of logic. You pit one
autocrat against the other : Death against
the Imperial Will : and the best man wins.
And there's no more unanswerable argument
than a rifle ball. It was our lords and
masters taught us that long ago — at the
Paris barricades. I say, if you shoot the
Czar you prove nothing new. But to fire

at a popular Prince To take a man at

the apex of his power, in the midst of his

people, to teach him that there's no popularity,
no moderation, no amount of good
nature, or good intentions, or good luck
even, that can alter the eternal justice

of things That's not stabbing at a

King : it's putting your knife into the Institution
; cutting the throat of royalty
itself — and not merely royalty as a political
institution, but royalty as a symbol of social
inequality. Is it vengeance ? I protest
that it is no more an act of vengeance than
the sentence of a judge. Have we not
tried them, these Kings ? Crista Santo !
have we not tried 'em and found 'em
wanting ? Is it a murder ? do you call
it murder when a man shoots down a
bandit — an outlaw — with a price upon
his head ? And they are outlaws,' he
added with a short laugh. ' Ay, and they

wear their crowns for a purpose. 'Tis a
shining target at the least '

'Bene' The German contemplated
him for a moment with an air of faint
amusement ; then rose slowly from his
place at table and moved with a catlike
step towards the door. He stooped
his shaggy head and looked long and
deliberately through the keyhole at the
various occupants of the adjoining room.
1 Bene. 'Tis all safe. But eloquence like
our Pierantoni's is apt to attract — crowds,'
he said, looking up again with a sudden
peculiarity simple and artless smile.

The little Neapolitan leaned half-way
across the table, his black eyes flashing.
Per Crista ! — you suspect some one ? some
traitor ?'

■ Traitors ? 'tis a word you are fond of

using, you Italians. I look at things
differently. Why should we expect a new
experience in life from that of other men ?
A man lives with his enemies ; if he is
lucky, he may meet with his friends.' He
looked at Valdez as he spoke : he was
always looking at Valdez, who bore his
scrutiny with the most unaffected unconcern.
'As for suspecting, I suspect,
every one,' he said. 'It is my business
to suspect. And for convenience
sake I begin with the suspicion of our
worthy landlord.' And, with a quick side-glance,
he added lightly, ' Valdez, you see,
our friend Valdez does not answer for him?
1 Nay,' said Valdez slowly, ' I say nothing
for or against him. He is one of those
men in whom necessity is the mother of
virtue. He'll walk straight enough if you

watch him carefully. He won't run off
the line so long as there are no corners.'

At this the German made some inarticulate
sound of assent, and for a time
again relapsed into silence. Finally, as some
neighbouring clock struck the hour of
eleven, he looked up with another grunt.
This place closes in half an hour. The
young man is not coming,' he said.

He will come,' Valdez repeated calmly.

Per Bacco ! if he doesn't '

But even as Pierantoni opened his lips
to speak the gaily-painted door behind
him opened quickly and softly, and was as
softly shut.

Am I late ?' asked Dino, looking all
about him.

There was more curiosity than excitement
in the expression of his face.

I thought you told me it was to bean
especially important sort of meeting ?
Why, where are the others ? There's no
one here !' he said, in a hurried aside to
Valdez as he drew up a chair and took
his place at the table beside his friend.
Pierantoni's face he knew by sight already,
but he gazed at the stranger present with
considerable interest and wonder, noting
each personal peculiarity of his appearance,
his careless dress, his broad shoulders and
large very white hands ; he wore a large
and valuable ring upon one of them, and
there was an ugly scar, the red mark of an
old wound, across his wrist. Dino could
not keep his eyes from it. He had always
longed to see this man. The German
leaned back quietly in his chair.

'Your name is Bernardino de Rossi.

You are Livornese by birth, — twenty-four
years old. You have belonged to this
Society for nearly three years, having been
introduced and vouched for by Signor
Pietro Valdez, here present. And for the
last four years — for the last five years, if I
mistake not,' he hesitated for an instant
and appeared to consult his memory, 'you
have held a position in the Telegraph
Office of Leghorn. I believe I am right
in all these particulars ?'

Perfectly right. It is nearly five years.
I was nineteen when I went into the
office,' said Dino promptly, though not
without a little inward astonishment.
What had this meeting then to do with
him ? and why had Valdez not spoken
more clearly ? But he was soon to know.

'And three weeks ago a slight disturbance

— a vegetable disturbance — connected
with a small demonstration in
favour of General Garibaldi, took place.
The procession was dispersed by the
police, but not before you had been recognised
as being implicated in it. Inconsequence
of this, and partly, also, because
of your refusing to give up the
name of one of your fellow-clerks who
was known to have been there with you,
you were unfortunately dismissed from
your post this morning. I say unfortunately
because, for some few weeks at
all events, you will now be placed under
police surveillance. You should have been
more careful, sir!' the speaker concluded
brusquely.

This man had the power of assuming
at will an indescribable air of ease and

authority. All traces of his former manner
of lounging good-nature had vanished.
His voice even was changed. He spoke
now with the clearness and rapidity of a
man accustomed to undisputed command.
'You should have been more careful, sir.
You have lessened your chance of being
useful.'

Dino felt himself going red and white
by turns.

'There was no other choice, your —
your — sir ! I mean,' he said after a moment.
' The man you speak of — he's no
friend of mine — depended upon my holding
my tongue. I was bound as a gentleman
not to betray him.'

1 The Society has nothing to do with
your being, or not being, a gentleman,
sir!' the great man interrupted sharply,

and looking at Dino with not unkindly-eyes.
'You will attend to what I say, if
you please, as at present you are merely
wasting my time in this matter.' He
glanced across at Valdez, and then
tapped the table before him thoughtfully
with his finger-tips : it was the hand on
which he wore his great signet ring, and
the brilliant which surrounded it glittered
oddly enough among the heaps of tobacco
ash and burnt-out matches which littered
the mean little table.

1 H — m/ he said thoughtfully; and turning
his eyes abruptly upon De Rossi, ' You
know who I am ?' he demanded. 'Ah — I
see you do. Well, that simplifies matters.
You will understand how it is that I am
giving you these orders. I suppose there
is no need of my reminding you of the

new — the special engagements you entered
into on the day following the little dilute
we have spoken of ?'

1 Ah!' said Dino, suddenly straightening
himself upon his chair.

Valdez lifted his eyes quickly, then
let them drop again. The lad was beginning
to understand.

1 You and one other man placed yourselves
on that occasion on the Society's
list of volunteers. I don't know how much
you meant by doing so, but that's not my
affair. You would not have been accepted
if you had not been considered a fit person
— and properly vouched for. It seemed
hardly probable at the time that any very
especial service would be demanded from
you, but of course you took your chance
of that. I have known men wait for

years and years without getting such a
chance ; but you are to be congratulated,
young man, you are more fortunate than
they.'

There was a dingy carafe standing in
its little saucer on the centre of the table.
Dino reached over and poured himself out
a glass of water ; he swallowed it down at
a gulp. Then he leaned deliberately back
in his chair. He had turned very pale,
and his eyes were shining.

'What is there to be done, sir? I'm
ready,' he said quietly.

The German looked at him grimly
enough for a moment, and then for the
first time his face relaxed into its wonderful
child-like smile.

School he said approvingly. Then,
with a sudden reassumption of his former

VOL. I. K

manner, ' Have you any present means of
support ? What are you going to do with
yourself at once ?' he demanded.

Dino told him.

1 Very well then. For the next fortnight
you will go about your work in the
boats, and you will be careful to give cause
of suspicion to no one. You observe that
I say to no one. If you have a — a mddchen
whom you fancy yourself in love with, you
will remember that the Society does not
admit of rivals. At the end of the fortnight
you will be sent to Rome, means
being provided for your journey. And in
the meantime you will not show yourself
again at this club. Whatever orders you
may need will reach you through Signor
Valdez.'

There was a moment's pause. ' And —

and what am I to do in Rome when I get
there ?' Dino asked presently. His lips
had turned dry again : he found a certain
difficulty in speaking.

1 You will leave Leghorn on the nth or
1 eth of next month. On the 13th of April
His Majesty, King Hubert, will hold
a grand review of his troops in the new
quarter of the Macao, near the railway
station. The Queen will be present at the
ceremony with the court and the young
Prince. The King will appear riding at
the head of his staff. You will take up
your place in the crowd at the corner
nearest the Royal carriages. His Majesty
will pass you twice — coming and going ; the
second time he passes '

They had all drawn nearer the small
table as he went on speaking in lower and

lower tones ; and now the four faces were
very close together.

And then ?' Dino tried to say, but his
lips only moved. He had no voice in
which to frame the words.

Signor Valdez is nearest to you. Tell
him, Valdez,' the German said peremptorily,
and threw himself back in his
chair.

And then Dino felt Valdez's warm breath
in his ear. He heard certain words which,
for a moment, seemed to convey no meaning.
He looked straight across the room
at the foolish painted door through which he
had entered. He felt thirsty again — that
intolerable thirst! and the gas flickered
and made a curious sound — like a whistle ;
and — and

He stood up suddenly in his place, and

stared at the three impassive faces before
him. They were all watching him.

My God !' he said in a broken whisper;
great God ! you want me to assassinate the
King P

RETROSPECTIVE.

In less than half an hour he had left the
place. Valdez accompanied him as far as
the cafe door, but there, with scarcely the
exchange of a word, they parted.

1 Are you not going home, lad ? Go
home and get some sleep,' the elder man
said, speaking in a tone of great kindness
and friendliness. And yes, Dino admitted,
he was tired. And with that they separated
: but he would not go home yet.
With the instinct of one born and brought
up by the sea, it was to the sea he turned,
naturally and unconsciously, as another man

might have turned to an open window. He
walked fast until he reached the low parapet
which runs along the embankment of
the public walk ; but, once there, his pace
slackened. The night was growing quiet ;
the wind had fallen perceptibly with the
setting of the moon. There were many
clouds still, but broken and moving ; and
clear dark spaces of the sky where the
stars sparkled frostily. Below, the water
was still restlessly leaping and falling
beneath the low sea-wall, a dark unquiet
surface crossed with long pale streaks of.
foam. He walked up and down, slowly,
by the edge of a clump of ilex trees, his
hands in his pockets, his head a little
bent, in the attitude of a man who is
thinking intently. Now and then, at the
louder splash of some wave which broke

higher than its fellows, he lifted up his
face automatically and looked about him
with a blank, confused stare. In truth he
was feeling little more than an overwhelming
sense of confusion ; nothing seemed
real, within or without ; he was only
conscious that all was changed around
him, and he could not realise the blow.

Dino's strongest personal impressions,
all his most treasured boyish remembrances,
were in some way connected with
his father, who had died young, and when
the boy was not more than twelve or
thirteen years of age. Any one else remembering
Olinto de Rossi — had there
indeed been any one left in the very least
likely to speak of him — any other person
would, in all probability, have summed
him up briefly as a handsome, fickle, enthusiastic

young man, who — having begun
life with a tolerable fortune, a persuasive
tongue, a singularly equable and lovable
temper, and an absolute incapacity for
denying himself the smallest satisfaction —
had ended by dying miserably of consumption
at thirty-five ; having in the interval
married ; spent all his money ; and earned
for himself some measure of local notoriety
as a sort of popular demagogue, a speaker
and leader at democratic meetings.

Chance having thrown him, while very
young, among men of determined political
sympathies, he had insensibly acquired so
many of their opinions, which he afterwards
retailed and amplified with so much
natural ingenuity and eloquence, as to
have earned no slight fame for himself asa
radical patriot of extreme views. In

point of fact, he had taken to speech-making
in the first place, almost by accident,
and as he would have taken to
drink, or to gambling, or to any other
form of excitement which appealed to his
pleasure-giving, pleasure-loving, nature.
And having once begun to taste the sweets
of popularity, he was fascinated by them ;
he required no especial convictions, the
applause and admiration he received were
quite enough to determine his vocation.

But it was not to be supposed that a
reputation obtained in this manner could
last for ever, or indeed for very long.
Before many years had passed there had
come a sensible diminution in the number
and the fervour of De Rossi's political
adherents. The elder men of his party
had long since ceased to take serious

notice of his impassioned prophecies ; and
now even the editors of the fiercest socialistic
papers — the compiler of II Lucifer
of Ancona, and the gentleman who was responsible
for the appearance of the Leghorn
Thief-even they had begun to fight
shy of their old and brilliant contributor.
By the time little Dino was old enough to
become his father's companion, following
him about from meeting to meeting with
undoubting, enthusiastic admiration and
love, it is probable that the faith and awe
the elder De Rossi excited in his little
listener was very nearly the sum total of
the credence he received.

On the whole, this defection did not
depress him seriously. Perhaps he never
thoroughly believed in it, or that he had
in any way deserved it ; one's own account

of one's motives, and the way they strike
a friend, often bearing much the same
relation to each other as a photograph
does to a portrait. Each represents the
same individual ; but one is fact ; the other
may be a poem. And from first to last
Dino saw nothing but the poem ; his
father treating him throughout with a
gentleness, a pride in his clever boy, and
an amount of expansive affection, which
cost him nothing, and which bound the
lad to him with a more than common
reverence and love. As for his wife, for
Dino's mother, she was by nature a silent
woman, who did not need to express all
that she thought ; and this, Olinto sometimes
reflected, was perhaps fortunate : the
view other people take of the less admirable
consequences of our actions being apt to

strike one as morbid. After all, her husband
was never positively unkind to her.
He had never purposely deceived her. He
was simply an ordinary man ; selfish, good-humoured,
eager for any new amusement ;
a creature of fine moments and detestable
habits. And, after all, when his wife had
married him it was because she wanted todo
so ; because nothing else could or
would satisfy her. If she had made a
mistake, well ! perhaps he too had had his
illusions. And it is the law of life — a
woman loves what she can evoke, but
what she marries in a man is not his best,
but his average, self.

Being gifted with a perfect, an unalterable
good humour, De Rossi accepted his
wife's altered opinion of him as he accepted
the reduced circumstances of his material

life : both were more or less of his own
making, and between them they troubled
him but very little. His experience of
life was a succession of easy contentment.
He enjoyed his own emotions.
He liked sinning as he liked repenting,
and in both phases he was alike sincere —
and unreliable. He was capable of the
deepest enthusiasms — the tenderest emotions
— but he was unable to master his
own shifting moods for a week. His facile
nature lapsed away from the highest points
it reached with the inevitableness of water
which seeks its level. He was attractive ;
he was weak ; he was untrustworthy ; —
and yet he was always attractive. ' The
sort of man,' Valdez said of him, ' the sort
of man who orders his dog " to come
here," and when the beast lies down in a

corner, — " Ah, the clever dog ! he knew I
was going to tell him to do that next ! "
says my amiable gentleman.'

Before her marriage — she was five
years older than her husband — Catarina
had been the confidential maid of the
Marchesa Balbi. She had never wholly
lost her place at the Villa. When the
young heir was born, a month or two after
the birth of Dino, she was, at her own
earnest entreaty, made the bahia of the
little Marchese. Whenever the family
came to Leghorn she was always going upto
the Villa ; the Marchesa was perpetually
sending for her. There was no great
mental barrier between the Italian lady
and her old servant : both were convent
bred, with much the same sort of education
and what hopes and fears had they not

shared since then in common ! Catarina
would stand for hours at the foot of her
old mistress' sofa, talking to her in undertones
of things which every one else had
forgotten. The two women were bound
to one another by a whole world of recollected
emotions — the night young Gasparo
was ill ; his first steps ; the day he had
first moved alone from the arms of his
nurse to the arms of his mother, — to each
of them these had been events in life.

As the years went by Olinto objected
less and less to his wife's frequent absences.
1 She is a good woman, my Dino, but hard
hard,' he would say sometimes to his
boy — and by the very passion with which
the child loved him he could see how much
he had inherited of his mother's loyal
and serious nature. He began to fear

vaguely lest, his boy growing older, he
should begin to learn to judge him — and
he had grown strangely dependent on that
one unhesitating faith.

Things were then in this condition,
when one day, Dino being at the time
some twelve years old, he was taken by
his father to a political banquet, a sort of
subscription supper given by one of the
clubs to which Olinto had at some time
belonged.

Dino never forgot that supper. There
had been some objection made to his own
presence when he was first taken in ; high
words exchanged between some of the
men present and his father ; sneering references,
which the child only half understood,
to other debts, and former feasts
unpaid for. In the midst of the confusion

VOL. I. L

Dino saw his father rise suddenly from his
place at the table ; he looked about him,
waving his hand to command silence : his
face was very white.

There was a general outcry of ' Sit
down ! sit down ! ' — ' It's too early yet !' —
We don't want any more speeches ;' and
then Dino saw the man who was sitting
on his other side lean well forward and
put his hand upon his father's shoulder.
Don't try and talk to them now. Wait
till after supper. And — sit down, De
Rossi, do. There's a good fellow,' he
said. And then, as Olinto yielded mechanically
to the pressure, his neighbour
drew back, looking kindly enough into
Dino's terrified face.

Don't be frightened, my little fellow.
They often make a noise at these suppers.

It means — nothing,' he said, with a half
contemptuous smile.

Dino looked at him for a moment in
silence. Then the boy's face flushed
scarlet, and his eyes filled with tears.

It can't mean anything,' he said desperately.
' My — my father would never
have brought me here if he did not
mean to pay for it.' But he did not
look at his father, who was arguing
eagerly across the table with his opposite
neighbour, and there was a lump in his
throat which seemed to choke him as he
spoke.

What, are you Olinto's little chap ? Is
De Rossi your father ? And what's your
name, then ? What do you call yourself,
my little lad ? ' the stranger asked good-naturedly


My name is Bernardo. But they call
me Dino at home,' the boy said, rather
huskily.

'Well, then, Dino, my boy, eat your
supper, and don't trouble your head about
what doesn't concern you. Your share of
it shall be paid for, never fear. Now then,
what's the matter now ? Don't sit and
stare at your father. He won't notice you.
He's — busy. If you are wise you'll tell me
what you want,' he repeated, with the same
equivocal smile.

There was something in his kind and
melancholy face which had won the boy's

entire confidence. ' I am afraid, sir I

don't think my father has got enough
money with him,' he said hastily, with
burning cheeks and downcast eyes. When
he ventured to look up he met his neigh-hour's

glance fixed full upon him with a
certain friendly amusement.

1 So you are Olinto de Rossi's son,' he
said slowly ; and Dino wondered to hear
him say it, for surely he knew that already.
'Well, well. Per Bacco ! if the evolutionists
are to be trusted, why, here's a
curious experiment of Dame Nature's.
Well, look here, my boy, did you ever seeme
before ? '

1 No, sir.'

1 Did you ever hear your father speak
of Pietro Valdez ? '

No, sir.'

1 H — m. Well ! that's my name. And
I spend my time teaching people how to
play the guitar, and tuning pianos : that's
my trade. So now you know who I am.
And I've known your father a good many

years now, first and last, a good many
years. Just tell him to turn around for a

moment. I say, De Rossi You lookout

for yourself; I don't want to crush
you, my boy.'

He leaned well forward, and spoke in a
low voice to Olinto. Dino was crouching
back in his chair : he could not hear what
passed between the two men ; but half an
hour later, and having in the meantime,
and at the instigation of his new friend,
partaken heartily of his supper, he had the
satisfaction of seeing his father carelessly
fling a gold piece into the subscription
plate, where it lay and glittered obtrusively
among the pile of meaner silver coins.

The boy's eyes sparkled with triumph
at the sight. He looked up with a frank
laugh into the face of his new companion.

1 Did you see that, sir ? ' he asked eagerly,
his face all aglow.

'Ay,' Valdez answered almost indifferently.
He leaned back on his chair and
contemplated the row of faces before him.
Presently they will begin their fine
speechifying. Look here, my boy, I see
signs — never mind what they are — but
I see symptoms of a coming row. It will
be nothing to speak of, I daresay, but all
the same I want you to promise me this :
If I send you home, I want you to cutaway
at once without stopping to ask
questions, do you see ? Now promise me
you'll do that, like a good little chap.'

1 I'll stay with my father, sir. I must
stay with my father. And if you please,
sir, I'd rather stay, really. I'm not afraid.'

Now, who ever supposed you were

afraid, my little man ? But that is not
the question. Now, look here — ah ! '

He stopped short. A sudden silence
had fallen upon the room. A man near
him roared out ' Hush ! ' and smote the
table before him with his clenched fist.
For the last time in his life Olinto de
Rossi had risen to make a speech.

He had been very quiet all the previous
part of the evening ; sitting most of
the time with his head leaning upon his
hand, hardly speaking to any one, not
even to his boy. As he rose slowly to
his feet a wild burst of ironical applause
greeted him from every part of the room,
only Valdez sat silent and motionless,
staring down at his plate with a moody
troubled face. De Rossi stood leaning
a little forward ; his thin cheeks, which

had grown so deadly pale of late, were
burning now with vivid spots of red.

1 Friends,' he began, ' Gentlemen ' He

hesitated for an instant, then burst into
wild invective against Church and King
and State. ' The State — the State, I
tell you, is the very negation of liberty
he cried, 'and no matter who command,
they make all serve. You talk, some of
you, of changing the political regime. How
will you change it ? For what good ? If a
man among you has a thorn in his foot,
will it help him if he change his boots ?
I tell you, it is the thorn, the thorn itself,
that you must get out, wrench out, cut
out, if need be. We, the people, how
often have we asked our rulers for bread
and they have given us a stone ? Yet this
is scarcely prudent, friends, for a stone

CHAP.

is a fair missile. What! will they live
on in their princely palaces and offer tous,
to the people, the bare right and
privilege of labour ? Labour ! I tell you
that God Himself has set His curse upon
labour. I — tell — you '

His voice had failed him suddenly.
He put his hand up to his head, staring
wildly about him.

1 Go on, go on. That's the right sort
of stuff. Down with everything. A
general mess and scrimmage, and myself
dancing on the top of it ; that's your
real radical programme. That's what
you call reform ! ' a man in the crowd
at the foot of the table cried out derisively.
There was a general laugh ; some indication
of a wish to hustle him into silence ;
some shouts of ' Viva De Rossi ! ' The

men had all been drinking freely, and
were ripe for any mischief.

I say, De Rossi, get up on your chairman.
We can't hear you,' some one
called out again ; the suggestion was received
with another hoarse roar of approval.
Two or three men moved towards
the orator as if with the intention of forcing
him to adopt this new position.

1 For God's sake, can't you let the man
alone ? Don't you see that he is ill ? '
cried Valdez, suddenly starting forward.

Some one, more humane than his
fellows, had poured De Rossi out a glass
of wine. He lifted it to his lips now,
facing them all, with flushed face and
wild glittering eyes, ' I drink to your
health, gentlemen ! '

He stood so for a second amidst frantic

shouts of applause, with one hand outstretched.
To Dino's eyes he looked like
some demi-god mastering a whirlwind. And
then all of a sudden the brimming glass
slipped from his nerveless hand, and was
dashed into a thousand pieces. He watched
it fall with a half-bewildered laugh ; he
staggered, and clutched at the table ; a
sudden red mark discoloured his smiling
mouth, and he fell heavily forward, face
downwards, without a word or a groan.

He had broken a blood-vessel ; he was
still insensible as they carried him back
to his home through the dark and empty
streets ; and Dino walked beside the
litter and held his father's hand. His
wife met them at the door with Palmira,
who was then a baby, in her arms. Her
face seemed turned to stone as she

listened to Valdez's explanations. Only,
as they laid her husband gently down
upon his bed, and uncovered his face, a
quick spasm contracted her rigid mouth,
and she stooped and kissed the dying man
upon his forehead.

1 1 knew it would come. It had to
come,' she said drearily. And after that
she scarcely spoke again, turning away
from all consolation, and seeming to find
relief only in the few practical cares which
were left to her.

And so, like some impatient wave
breaking too far from shore, whose
troubled existence reaches its climax in
but one instant of wasted force, in the
midst of a sea where every wave which
lifts itself must fall, so Olinto died, and
his idle raving was hushed, and his place

knew him no more. Of mourners he had
few or none ; it was only to his boy that
he left so much as a memory. That was
almost the lad's entire heritage, that and
the friendship of Pietro Valdez.

As little Dino grew up every other
detail of his life seemed to change about
him, as things do change in the lives of
people too poor to order their surrounding
circumstances. The Marchesa came less
and less often to the Villa Balbi ; he had
lost the familiar companionship of his
foster-brother ; of his first childish recollections
there was only old Drea left, and
the dear face of Italia, to illuminate the
past. But, whatever else was altered, he
had never lost sight of Valdez. Indeed,
since that night the man seemed to have
taken a strange fancy to the boy ; as the

RETROSPECTIVE. 159

years went on those two were always
more and more together ; an arbitrary
friendship, in which one was ever the
leader and teacher and guide.

Even to Dino there was always a
certain mystery about Valdez, but it was
the mystery of pure blankness ; there
were no secrets about him, chiefly because
he seemed to own no history. He never
willingly spoke of himself, or alluded to
former acquaintances or habits. If he
had any one belonging to him, if he had
ever been married, no one precisely knew.
He never spoke to women, or appeared
interested in them. He lived alone, where
he had lived for twenty years, in two small
rooms in one of the narrowest streets of
Leghorn. His wants were few and unchanging,
and the money which he earned

amply sufficed for them. In his working
hours he followed his trade, as he called
it, with the sober exactitude and indifference
of a machine. He was a Spaniard
by birth, and a Protestant by conviction ;
and he believed in a coming universal
republic as he believed in the rising of the
sun. After a dozen years of companionship
that was the most that Dino knew of him.

As he paced up and down there by
the sea, a hundred confused images and
impressions came floating back out of
that past to Dino. His father's face, and
the unforgotten sound of his voice, — Sor
Checco, Gasparo, Drea, dear old Valdez,
and those men at the cafe to-night, and
the scene this morning at the office, and the
scene at the banquet, that other night, long
ago, — how long ago it seemed ! It was as if

some storm-wave breaking over his life and
soul had stirred the very depths of old remembrance,
until he could scarcely distinguish
the actual from the past, the living
from the dead. They were all mixed up with
the darkness and the wind and the sense
of the restless seething water about him.

When he thought of Italia he stopped
short. He could not, he would not think
of Italia — not then. He could bear nothing
further to-night, he told himself,
with a curious sense of relief and quiet.
The measure was full ; he could realise
nothing more. And, indeed, beyond
great pain as beyond great joy, there
is this mysterious region of rest. Great
passions end in calm, as the two poles
are surrounded by similar spaces of silent,
ice-locked sea.

VOL. I. M

THE MORNING AFTER.

A woman's anxiety is always awake, always
asking. She entreats to know in direct
proportion to her dread of the coming
knowledge. How could it well be otherwise,
while her life is one frail tissue of
delicate probabilities, in the midst of which
she waits, like a spider in its net, for the
possible gifts of fate ? And the web may
glisten as it will in the sunlight ; it makes
but a poor shield against a blow.

As Catarina busied herself about her
ordinary household work that next morning
there were faint new lines of care about

her close shut mouth, and the orbits of her
eyes were darkened as if with sleeplessness
and long watching. But, whatever had
troubled her, she made no direct mention
of it to Dino, — setting his belated breakfast
before him carefully but in silence. It
was not until he pushed aside his plate and
stood up, reaching mechanically for his hat,
ready to go out, that she admitted to herself
that if she wanted an explanation she must
ask for it ; or seemed to notice his movements,
and even then it was only to say
indifferently,

Shall you be home to dinner ? Or do
you mean to stay at Drea's ? is that a part
of your new arrangements ?'

Nay, but, mother, I am sorry to have
given you so much more trouble. The fact
is I — I over-slept myself this morning.

When I came in last night I was more tired
than I knew,' said Dino cheerfully.

Ay, when you came in ! When you did
come ! It was after ten o'clock when you
brought home that blessed child, so worn
out with the wind and what not that she fell
asleep on my knee, bless her little heart !
before I had fairly time to get her clothes
off. And after that I sat up for three hours
in that chair, Dino. It was striking one by
the Duomo clock before I went to bed.'

She turned to the dresser by the wall
and began reaching down plate after plate,
and looking at each one as she wiped it.
1 I had this china before you were born ;
the signora Marchesa took me with her to
choose it — and it was my wedding present
from the Villa — sent down by one of the
footmen the day after I was married. I

was sitting by that window when it was
brought in — a great heavy basket that the
man could hardly lift upon the table — only
your father helped him. And there was
never a piece of it broken until you knocked
down the saucer the day I asked you to
help me with the cups. But it's ungrateful
work taking care o' things that just end by
being used by others who don't see any
difference. There's a plenty o' people in
the world have got brighter eyes for looking
at their sweethearts with than for looking
after their husband's house. Palmira tells
me that my boy, my young master, is at
home again, Dino?'

'Ay, signor Gasparo's here.'

And went to see Sor Drea on his very
first evening ! He used to come to me.
Tarda quest a ! But young men will be

young men. And 'tis true that Andrea has
sense enough to look after that girl of
his. She's given you enough encouragement
'

Mother ! ' said Dino in his severest
voice ; a voice which secretly awed her.

He faced around suddenly, and stood
looking at her as she moved to and fro.

Mother ! it is not generous, it is not
kind, to speak of Italia in that fashion. And
you know it hurts me. I love her,' he said,
his voice changing. ' Of course I love her.
I don't care who knows that I love her.
But encouragement! I don't know what
you mean. Encouragement from Italia!
She has never thought of such a thing ;
she would not know what you meant '

Eh, don't tell me, lad. I've been a girl
myself. 'Tis a poor dog that doesn't know

when he's wagging his own tail,' cried
Catarina bitterly, stooping to wipe the
dust off the leg of a chair with the corner
of her apron. She made a busy pretence
of it for a moment or two, and then her
hands dropped helplessly ; she stood up and
looked at her tall son. ' An* so you love
her ; — you love that little girl ! You never
told me of it before, lad.'

1 But, mother dear, you never asked me.
I always thought you knew it. It was
plain enough. And how was I to guess
you wanted to be told ? I have never
even told — her,' the young man said.

And she was to come first ? Nay, 'tis
but natural. The young birds build new
nests. Ah, but, Dino! Dino! I've lost you.
I've lost my own boy '

Her voice broke : she turned abruptly

away, and hid her gray "head upon her
clasped hands.

But, mother dear, — dearest mother !'
He stood with one hand on her shoulder,
looking down at her bowed head with a
curiously-blended feeling of distress over
her grief and impatience at its unreasonableness
: ' Mother ! After all, you must
have expected it sooner or later : it is but

natural '

Yes, lad. I know. 'Tis as you say :
'tis natural,' Catarina said meekly ; and
then she turned her face away again with
a sob and a feeling of utter inevitable loneliness.
How could the lad understand ?
He was young, and she was growing old ;
and to him what was natural was easy, and
to her it was hard. That was all the
difference.

She swallowed something in her throat,
a lump which seemed to choke her, and
stood up. ' Covering ! I won't tease you
any more : don't be vexed with me, lad,'
she said soothingly, looking into his perplexed
face with a quivering smile. She
put up her hand to brush off an imaginary
speck of dust from his coat. ' Nay, 'tis no
wonder if people love you. Go, my Dino,
go to — her,' she said ; and as Dino bent
his head and kissed her, ' It's because I am
sending him away,' she thought, bitterly
enough.

4 And how about Monte Nero, mother ?
The pilgrimage, you know. Italia was
asking about it last night,' he said cheerfully,
glad to see her beginning to accept
things more placidly.

'Ay, lad, I'll think of it; but go now,

go. I will not — I cannot — I mean, do as
you please. Make all your plans, and I
will help you carry them out. It's what
I'm good for now, I suppose. I must
learn not to stand in your way — and hers.'

Mother ! '

I — Don't mind me, my Dino. Don't
be angry with your old mother, my own
boy. It was only a — a surprise. I shall
be all right when you come back ; for you
will come back to dinner, my Dino ? I
am good for that much : I can take care
of you still.'

She followed him to the door, and then
went and stood by the open window,
shading her eyes from the bright March
sun, to watch him as he passed down the
street. Perhaps he would turn his head
and look up. But no. From that height

she could not distinguish his face ; she
felt a pang of idle regret at the thought ;
he seemed to get so soon beyond her
reach. After a while she went into her
son's room, and opened all his drawers,
and began to turn over his possessions.
She folded an old coat which she found on
the back of a chair : she folded it carefully.
I am not sure that she did not kiss it.
Everything belonging to him with which
she had anything to do was kept in the
most scrupulous order, and she wanted to
find something to mend, some work which
she could do for him.

There was a small faded photograph, a
portrait of his father, hanging over the
young man's bed. She went and looked
at it as it hung against the wall, then took
it down and stood with it in her hand. It

was the likeness of a man who had been
in every way a disappointment in her life ;
but she was not thinking of that now.
The faded face looked at her out of the
past with its easy confident smile. She
only remembered the first year or two after
her marriage, and her young husband's
kindness to her, and his first pride and
pleasure in their boy. ' If he had not gone
there would have been some one left to
understand,' she thought. Her own personal
life seemed ended : she gazed with
the strangest pang of regret and companionship
at this fading likeness of the dead face
she had loved in her youth. What if
afterwards he had neglected her ? At
least he had come to her once of his own
accord, for her own sake — and they had
been young together.

She felt herself quite alone, this austere
and self-contained woman — alone in a
world which could never change for the
better now ; in which each new morning
would only bring new deprivations in place
of fresh joys.

Dino had dressed himself in workman's
clothes that morning. Drea did not expect
him yet, but it was just possible there
might be something which wanted doing
in the boat. It was such a bright fresh
morning after the storm ; a morning to
make young hearts beat lightly and young
blood run fast with a quick sense and joy of
dear life. But as he turned mechanically
down the busy Via Grande he saw nothing
of all this. His mother's words, the way
in which she had taken it for granted that

if he loved Italia, Italia must love him,
and how there could be but one possible
solution to their lives, all that would have
been so natural, so full of hope and radiant
happiness last month, last week — last
week ? only yesterday, only one day ago !
And now ; oh, the bitter irony of fate ! it
was he himself who had forged the chain
which bound him. He cursed his own
folly. Why could he not have been contented
? was he not deeply enough involved
before then ? why could he not
have let that last crowning piece of madness
alone ?

The look of the commonplace crowd
around him, the presence of those scores
of hurrying, interested, contented, busy
men, the very look of the shop windows,
all things seemed to conspire together to

discredit and ridicule the devoted side, the
dramatic side, the only possible side, of his
situation. In a world like this — a world
of common - sense and convenience and
keen enjoyments, a world of sunlight and
youth and possibilities, to choose deliberately,
at four-and-twenty, to throw away
all one's future, all one's love, all one's life
in doing — that. Damn it ! Even to himself
he would never mention that accursed
plan, he would never think of it.

He thrust his hands deeper into the
great pockets of his rough jacket, and
threw up his head defiantly, as he glanced
about him. And each house he passed,
each soldier, each policeman, each lamp-post
even — every visible sign of peace and
law and order — seemed a tangible ironical
comment on his folly. And why, in God's

name, had he done this thing ? He remembered
so well that evening — it was
after their demonstration had been dispersed
by the police, and he was hot with
a sense of battle, and wild with excitement,
with bitter baffled indignation. It had
seemed so easy a thing then to pledge
away his future. He had done it without
consulting Valdez — suddenly, madly, on
the desperate impulse of the moment. He
had done it in a moment of mental crisis ;
because he was imaginative, because he
believed in the cause, heart and soul, because
he had been a fool. And as he said
that to himself some old words of Pietro
Valdez came back to him with sudden
force out of some old forgotten talk of
theirs. ' How can any one believe in your
highest emotions ? ' he heard the familiar

voice asking him, ' how can you expect
any one to believe in your highest emotions
if you question them yourself ? '

The softest wind blew in his face and
he did not feel it, the sunlight rested on
him, the sky was blue and white ; but he
had ceased to look even at the passers-by.
He felt like a man awakened from a dream,
when a hand touched him, and a voice
spoke in his ear, and he looked up and
recognised the Marchese Gasparo.

Hallo, old boy, are you asleep ? are
you dreaming ? what the devil is the matter
with you ? '

They had met in front of the Giappone,
the fashionable restaurant of Leghorn,
where Gasparo had been breakfasting with
a couple of his friends. The two other
men strolled off a few paces and waited,

VOL. I. N

smoking their long thin cigars, and eyeing
Dino with a languid curiosity. Gasparo,
too, looked at his altered dress with some
exclamation of surprise.

'What is the meaning of that new
toggery ? ' he demanded. * I had to look
twice to make sure it was you. What are
you up to now, old fellow, eh ? Is all that
to oblige our good Andrea?' And then,
without waiting for an answer : ' See here,
Dino, you're the very man I want. But
stop a moment. First of all, are you going
anywhere in particular ?'

I am going to Drea's,' Dino said.

'To wish our pretty little friend good
morning, eh, my Dino ? Jove, how pretty
that girl looked in the firelight singing! But
never mind that. You can do something
for me before you go there, can't you ?

Women are never the worse for being kept
waiting ; in fact, it does them good, and
their hearts get softer with time, just asa
peach softens when you leave it for a bit
to ripen on the tree. I say, Dino, be a
good obliging fellow for once. You are not
really in a hurry ?'

■ No, sir.'

Benissimo ! Then you can go and do an

errand for me. I want Look here ;

it's a letter I want carried. Rather an important
letter. It's — it's a love-letter, in
fact,' said Gasparo, beginning to laugh,
1 and I want it taken to the woman with
the most beautiful eyes in Leghorn — the
most beautiful ? well, at least I thought so
until yesterday. She is — her name is
written on the envelope. But it is not to
be taken to her house, you understand ?

She is at Pancaldi's this morning, at the
Habiliments. Go straight in to the platform
where the baths are in summer ;
you'll find her there, looking at the waves.'
He laughed, brushing up his moustache.
So there you are ; and now right about
face — march ! Why, man, what are you
staring at ? There's the letter ; and I say,
Dino, mind you give it to her quietly ; just
slip it into her hand, you know, as if it
were the answer to some commission.
Faith ! they are pretty eyes, if they're not
so bright as Italia's.'

Dino turned red ; he drew his shoulder
away from the Marchese's careless touch.

1 1 You must excuse me, sir,' he said

roughly. ' Get some one else to carry
your letter. I won't go.'

Hullo ! ' The Marchese threw back

his head. l Then — oh, go to the devil ! '
he said, and turned lightly on his heel.

He walked off for a pace or two and
stopped, irresolute. It was really very
awkward about that letter. He wanted it
taken ; he could not carry it himself, and
to find another trustworthy messenger at a
moment's notice He turned back.

I say, old fellow, don't you think this
is treating me rather badly ? It is not
every one whom I'd ask to do this thing
for me, but you — why, we've been boys
together, you and I.' A smile lighted up
his handsome face. 'I'd do as much for
you any day, old Dino ; for you and your
sweetheart'

Among all the men of his time, the
young Marchese, Gasparo Balbi, was one
of the most personally attractive. He was

the most popular man in his regiment ; he
fascinated the very orderly who cleaned his
boots, and all women and all children loved
him. Wherever he went — in a ballroom,
or in the streets, — people turned in the
same way to look at him. His mere
presence was an irresistible argument.
When he talked it is possible that what he
said was neither particularly fresh nor particularly
new, but that did not matter ; his
silence and his speech were alike persuasive.
He had all the qualities of a ruler
and leader of men, — strong animal magnetism,
an irresistible audacity, an implacable
will. He was like one of the English
Stuart in his wonderful faculty of awakening
passionate loyalty and enthusiasm in
all who came into personal relations with
him ; perhaps he was still more like them

in his power of using his friends, his capacity
for charming and — forgetting.

He stood there now smiling in the sunlight,
like a young prince whose good
pleasure it is to explain when he need only
command.

Come, my Dino ; I know you better
than you know yourself. Surely you are
not going to refuse to do this for me ?' he
said.

He smiled again as De Rossi went off
with the letter. If the Contessa did not
like it — well ? He thought of her pleasantly,
holding, as he did, the easy Italian
creed that, if money is the root of all evil,
women are at least its flower. Still, if the
Contessa did not like it, if by any chance
she cared to make herself disagreeable —
she could get into a rage ; that was certain

well ? He adjusted his sword belt a
little and strolled back to his friends,
whistling softly in an undertone.

1 Been giving that young fellow a rating,
eh, Gasparo ? He looked at you at one
moment as if he would not be sorry to
measure the length of his knife against
your ribs remarked one of the men who
had been waiting for him.

I was only giving him a commission.
He's my foster-brother, by the way, that
chap, and would go through fire and water
to serve me. So much for your powers of
discrimination, my Nelly,' said Gasparo
carelessly.

He linked his arm in that of his friend,
and they lounged slowly away together
through the crowded street.

Dino meanwhile was walking down the

empty parade, on the farther side of that
straggling, weather-beaten row of trees
which stands between the Passeggiata and
the low sea-wall. It was the same ground
which he had trodden the night before in
his despair, and now he was being sent
over it again to carry a note at Gasparo's
bidding. It was as if Fate had determined
to ridicule each turn of his fortunes. He
was tasting that experience which is common
to all people who get into the way of
considering their lives from the outside, —
dramatically, as it were — the experience of
those who, having many gifts, yet lack
simplicity. He contemplated and criticised
any mental crisis in which he found himself
involved until it lost all sense of reality
and became a situation. He was, if possible,
too clever, too sensitive. He frittered

his attention away on the by-play of life.
As he walked along in the sunshine of that
morning, beside the blue and placid sea, it
was still very much of an open question
with Dino what real role he was to enact
in life ; it would depend so much upon
whom he met ; upon association and circumstance
; perhaps chiefly upon some
secret pressure of influence ; the gift or
the curse of some unconscious soul.

He walked slowly, but it was not far
to the entrance of the Habiliments. Two
men were lounging in the gateway. One
of them looked hard at Dino, at his preoccupied
face, and the careless workman's
dress.

'Here! Give me your letter and I'll
take it in for you, giovanni mio] he said
good-naturedly.

Dino threw back his head with an involuntary
expression of annoyance.

1 I carry my own messages he answered
shortly.

A thousand pardons ! Evidently the
Signor — the Signor Carpenter, shall I say?
or the Signor Facchino ? — evidently he
wishes to pay for his entrance, then ? For
let me tell you that Pancaldi's is like the
gate of Paradise ; you don't go in without
a proper lasciapassare!

1 Nay, can't you let the fellow alone,
Beppi ? Can't you see that he is carrying
a message ? Let him in, you idiot, else we
shall have the Padrone himself down upon
us,' the other man added in a voice like an
intermittent growl. He moved back a step
or two, making room for Dino to pass.
1 Come in, come in, bel giovanni. You need

never mind my comrade here; you cannot
quarrel with a dog for barking at his own
gate. Via! he said, with a wave of his
hand, ' put up your purse, my lad. Save
the money to buy your sweetheart a fairing.
Nay, if you won't believe me, you
can read, I suppose ? and there it is
written up on the board in front of you,
Children and servants, admittance free.
And so put up your money, I tell you.'

And pray who the devil told you that
I was a servant ? ' demanded Dino, thrusting
his hand into his pocket and drawing
out a crumpled bit of paper. It was the
last five-franc note he had in the world ;
he tossed it contemptuously across the
wooden ledge in front of him. ' Pay yourself,
and try to know a gentleman the next
time you see one, will you ? '

'Ah, a fine gentleman, truly,' said the
man called Beppi, picking up the note and
contemplating it with a sneer.

1 Perfidy added his companion, ' a man
with money is a man in the right. So put
that in your pipe, amico mio, and smoke it.
Ay, money, it's like one's other blood;
a man with empty pockets, 'tis but a deadman
walking.'

1 Oh, that's all very fine, but / like consistency.
A gentleman's a gentleman, I say.
It never was so much of a world to boast of
at the best, and when it comes to a new
tax upon the wine, and not so much as the
prospect of half a day's holiday just to
make a feast for the blessed Madonna of
Monte Nero, — and common workmen who
go about throwing five-franc notes in your
face, as if the world had gone mad. / like

consistency, that's what I say,' retorted
Beppi, in a voice which grew gradually
lower as he looked from the note between
his finger and thumb at Dino's receding
figure.

It was scarcely more than a moment
before De Rossi had come upon the object
of his search. He recognised her immediately
; indeed he had often before seen
her passing in her carriage, a beautiful impassive
figure, wrapped in her costly
Russian furs. She was alone now, leaning
over the balustrade with her eyes fixed
vaguely upon the changing ripples of the
sea. At any other moment Dino might
have felt a certain timidity in approaching
her ; but the irritation of that challenge at
the gate was still strong upon him. This
woman here was only another of those

aristocrats whose privileged existences made
life intolerable. Was it intolerable by conviction
of its injustice, or only by force of
contrast ?

But he troubled himself with no such
inquiry as he went up to her. He lifted
his hat : ' Pardon my disturbing you ; but
I bring a message — a letter — from the
Signor Marchese Gasparo Balbi,' he said.

She was a tall young woman, nearly as
tall as himself ; that was the first thing he
noticed. He saw her gloved hand start
and shut more closely over the railing of
the balcony at the first sound of his voice.
But that was the only sign of surprise
which she gave. There was not a quiver
of perceptible emotion on the pale inscrutable
face which she turned so slowly
towards him.

Bene. You may give me the letter.
Thanks.'

She held out her gauntleted hand with
a gesture of superb indifference, and then,
as her dark glance rested for the first time
upon Dino, she raised her perfect eyebrows
with a slight expression of wonder. She
had expected to see Gasparo's soldier
servant. She turned her face away from
him.

Madame Helwige ! '

A little old woman dressed in black,
who had been quietly seated in a sunny
corner, reading a Tauchnitz novel under the
shade of a large parasol, rose quickly and
came forward at this call.

The Signora Contessa desires '

My purse. Yes. I want some
money,' the young woman said impatiently.

She made no secret of the letter she had
received, holding it by one corner, and
tapping the top railing with it to the
measure of an inaudible tune.

1 Then, if I can do nothing more for
you, I will go. I have the honour of
washing you good morning,' added Dino
quietly, turning away.

1 Stop a moment. This lady will give
you something for your trouble. Or —
stop ! Who are you ? What is your
name ?'

Bernardino de Rossi.'

Ah. The Marchese Gasparo's foster-brother.
That explains. I have heard
him mention you : he says you are one of
the discontented people, — a radical, a
red republican, que sais je, mot? Is it

true ?' she asked calmly, fixing her large
vol. i. o

disdainful eyes upon the young man's
face.

He bowed gravely. ' Since the Signora
Contessa does me the honour to inquire.
I am a radical ; that is my belief.'

Really ? And you think we are all
equal ? We are all equally discontented,
'tis true enough ; massacres She struck
the balustrade lightly with her letter. ' Do
you see the water beating against that wall
of rock, Signor de' Rossi ? Twice a day
the tide comes in, and before the waves can
climb half-way up the cliff, twice a day the
tide goes out. 'Tis the same way with the
people's anger — ebb and flow. And the
greatest storm can only wet the rocks ; it
can't uproot them. What do you Italians
know about such things ? But I, I am a
Russian, and I know.' She looked out to

sea again. ' When the waves beat too
fiercely against the shore the rock breaks
them,' she said.

Then she looked at Dino tranquilly.
1 I have heard the Marchese Gasparo speak
of you; he takes an interest in you. It
would be a pity if you should disappoint
him,' she added, and moved away slowly
with a careless bend of her head.

Dino stood as she had left him for a long
moment, holding his hat in his hand, the
wind just ruffling the thick hair on his
forehead, gazing fixedly out to sea. He
stood like a man under the influence of
some spell. Then, as he looked up and
caught the curious glance of the Countess'
companion fixed full upon him, he hastily
replaced his hat and turned away.

Just outside the gate he came upon

Valdez with a roll of music in his hand,
going about his work. Dino nodded to
him ; he would not stop to speak. The
older man slackened his pace, looking at
him rather sadly, as if he were sorry for
something, then passed on. Afterwards
it struck Dino that they had never happened
to pass one another in this silent
way before. He stopped, looking down
the long street at the old familiar figure.
But what had they to say to each other
now, even if he should turn and overtake
him ? Dino was like a man under sentence
of death ; all the minor obligations of life
seemed annulled and suspended; where
they clung still it was by force of habit,
like the withering tendrils of a vine cut
down at the root.

A great impatience of trouble had fallen

upon him : he wanted no more emotion,
no more effort. There was a clear fortnight,
perhaps three weeks, before — before
he would be sent to Rome. Well ! he
wanted that time to himself, and he intended
to have it, he intended to be happy.
The first great shock of the surprise was
over : his nature had already re-adjusted
itself to these new conditions with the
supple strength of youth. And in this
fixed interval of quiet — this interval, which
seemed all the longer by very reason of its
being fixed, — all the light, joy-loving instincts
of his age were alert within him,
making music in his heart, like the rapturous
song of birds between two storms.
The habit of life, its careless young incredulity
of the end, had never been more
strong upon him ; he had never felt more

irresponsible ; had never looked, perhaps
had never been more like his father, than
on that morning, as he turned down from
the broad sunny Passeggiata towards old
Drea's house on the quay.

ITALIA.

Seen by daylight, the entrance to Drea's
house was not unlike the entrance of a cave.
The house itself was in a corner of the
canal, flush with the water, below the level
of the street, and consisted of two rooms
the long, large entrance room where the
table had been laid for the birthday supper,
and another much smaller chamber beyond,
which belonged to Italia, and was lighted
by a very small round window like the
port-hole of a ship, which looked out upon
the water on the other side of the bridge.
The whole place indeed had been originally

designed for a Government boat-house
and store-house, and was sunk in the thickness
of the massive stone pier.

On a sunny morning like this, when the
door was thrown wide open, any painter
passing that way would have been charmed
by the mysterious look of the interior, the
dark raftered ceiling, the smoke-embroiled
fireplace, above which a row of bright brass
plates made round spots of light in the
darkness, and then the heavy coils of rope
and the spare oars, arranged with all a
sailor's habit of neatness, against the whitewashed
wall. At dusk, and when the fire
was burning, it was like looking at an interior
of Rembrandt's to watch the play of
light and shadow over the rich ruddy
brown tones of the room ; but on this particular
morning the fire had been allowed

to sink to a mere handful of red embers,
and the room was full of the fresh smell of
the sea air and the brightness of the March
sunshine.

At the foot of the stone steps leading
down from the street before Drea's door
there was a narrow strip of stone pavement,
and a floating wooden stage where the
boat was moored. In the corner there,
where the angle of the great granite buttress
made a sheltered spot, was Italia's
favourite seat. By sitting well back in the
shadow one was entirely out of sight, unless
indeed some especially adventurous spirit
bethought himself to take the trouble to
lean bodily over the parapet of the bridge
overhead. But it was too busy a part of
Leghorn for much idling : all day long the
tramp, tramp of hurrying feet, and the hoi-low

rumbling of the weighted carts rolling
towards the lading ships, made a dull, continuous
bass, which effectually covered any-sound
of voices. Italia could sing thereby
the hour over her work, sure of never
being heard, save perhaps by some taciturn
weather-beaten fisherman poling his flat-bottomed
boat into the quieter water of the
canal. It was Drea's own landing-stage,
and he was jealous of his rights to it, giving
but few boats the privilege of mooring
there for an hour. Since the building of
the railway, now that the canal has ceased
to be of use for the heavier traffic between
Leghorn and Pisa, a quieter spot than this
could scarcely be imagined. For even the
supposititious idler would scarcely be tempted
to look this way when, just across the
bridge, by leaning over the opposite balustrade,

one could look down upon all the
hurry and interest of the Old Port, and
watch the slow heaving of the anchors, the
puffing excitement of the blackened vessels
getting up steam, or the continual 
of the little boats among the shipping.


The noise and the hurry passed like an
unheeded stream around Italia s sheltered
corner. Dino had compared her once to
an enchanted princess, and her quaint
rooms, with the silent, sunny platform in
front of them, to a strip of enchanted
ground set apart from the disturbing commonplaces
of life. The remembrance of
the old fancy brought a smile upon his lips
as he ran lightly down the steps that morning.
Drea was not there, and the old boat
was not at her mooring, but Italia was sitting

just where he had expected to find her.
She held a book in her hand, but she was
not reading, she was looking dreamily at
the lazy lapping of the water against the
old wooden stage. She wore the same
blue cotton dress as on the previous night,
but she had taken off her beads and clasp,
and tied a scarlet handkerchief about her
neck. Her hat was lying on the ground
beside her ; Dino picked it up, and his first
greeting was one of playful reproof.

Bareheaded in this March sunshine, my
Italia ? Pazzarella ! Your father was right
indeed when he said it required two of us
to look after you.'

'Dino mio ! '

She looked up at him with a wide,
dreamy glance, which suddenly grew bright
and loving. The hot colour rushed to her

cheeks, and she put up her little brown
hands as if to hide them, while she laughed
and shook her head.

'Marco pazzo, ah, yes, I know it. But
indeed, Dino, this is much more likely to
drive me to distraction.' She opened the
book on her lap, and turned over half a
dozen pages. ' I have really tried to learn
it, really. But it is so difficult ; you have
no idea how difficult it is, Dino.'

1 Poor little thing ! It is a shame to give
it such hard lessons,' said Dino in a caressing
tone, looking down at the rough brown
hair. He threw himself down on the pavement
in the shadow at her feet, and put up
his hand for the book.

1 Here ! let me have a look at it, and
see if I can't do something to make it
easier for you. What is it ? Arithmetic ?

Oh ! but this is what I gave you to do long
ago. No wonder you find it difficult ; you
have had time to forget all my explanations.
Let me see now ; have you a
pencil ? '

■ Yes ; but you can't write with it. I've
broken the point'

Give it here, then, you helpless baby ! '
He took a knife out of his pocket, and
picking up the pencil began to sharpen it
while she sat watching him, her dark eyes
full and bright with such an expression of
unquestioning content as one is not accustomed
to expect on faces which have outgrown
their first childish calm. The water
of the canal w 7 as as blue that morning as
the stainless sky which it reflected, and it
seemed almost as still ; only now and then
the faintest ripple breaking against the step

ITALIA. 207

with a weak splash and stir which made
the sunbeams sparkle under the wooden
platform. Beyond the dark archway of the
bridge the white-sailed boats came and
went ; her glance followed their movement
with a vague sense of happy peace. She
was realising for the first time the ideal of
all loving-natured women : she was feeling
her happiness depend upon the will of the
man she trusted. When Dino looked up
at her inquiringly she started, as if indeed
awakened from a dream.

1 Have you understood ? Is that plain
enough? Oh, Italia! Italia! for shame!
Is that the way to treat a learned professor
? You have not been looking
at the book after all,' he said laughing,
but shaking his head with mock

severity.

The colour rushed back to her cheeks.
Oh ! I am so sorry, Dino ; I forgot.'

Now, if I were your father I should tell
you that one does not carry flowers to the
mill when what one wants is bread ; and
the quickest way to become an arithmetician
is not to sit watching for the boat.
By the way, speaking of the boat, Sor Drea
must have gone out early this morning.'

1 Yes ; he went at daybreak ; he woke
me up to tell me he was going. He took
Maso with him to help with the nets.'

'Ah! I wish I had known,' said Dino
quickly.

Father thought of going for you ; then
he said you would be tired — you had a
hard day yesterday. And Sora Catarina
would not know yet of your arrangement ;
she would have been frightened if you had

been fetched away suddenly in the middle
of the night.'

She glanced quickly at him, and added,
1 1 am glad they did not go for you ; you
look so tired this morning, Dino, as if you
had not slept.'

I did not sleep — much,' he said absently.


He threw his arm up and laid his head

against it. His face was almost on a level

now with the blue ripple of the water.

There was a handful of loose straw floating

about among the piles : he watched it come

and go as the current sucked in under the

landing - stage. What was the good of

thinking — of remembering? Why had

Italia alluded to last night ? Was he never

to forget it for five minutes ?

He sat up abruptly, brushing the hair
vol. i. p

out of his eyes ; but as he moved she
spoke.

Won't you give me the book now,
Dino ?' She bent her head down over it :
I did not mean to vex you ; I did not mean
to tease you when you are so tired.'

She looked so like a child submitting to
some half understood reproof that Dino
could scarcely restrain the impulse of
mingled tenderness and adoration which
made him long to take her in his arms and
kiss her. But he forced himself to answer
lightly : ' What nonsense, little one ; as if
anything you did could vex me!' He
looked about him : ' I suppose I ought to
be going now. There is no telling when
Sor Drea will be in if he has taken the
nets ; but I wish you would sing to me —
just one song before I go.' He took the

book away from her and closed it gently.
After all, you are right ; it is better to have
music than to do one's lesson on such a
morning. Sums are made for different
weather, are they not, Italia mia f For
days when the libeccio blows, and one
does not mind wasting a whole morning
over one terrible bit of multiplication.'

1 Oh, but even I am not quite so bad as
that,' said Italia quickly. ' I had only just
brought out my book when you came ;
before then I had been talking to the
signor Padrone.'

'What!' said Dino, in quite an altered
voice. He noticed the change himself, but
he could not prevent it ; it was all he could
do to ask the question quietly, ' Has — has
the Marchese Gasparo been here ?'

1 Surely,' said Italia, looking at him with

some surprise ; ' he came here about an
hour ago to speak about the boat to my
father. He wants to take a party of his
friends out for a sail She added : ' I
thought you knew he had been here ; he
told me he had met you

No, I did not know it,' said Dino, speaking
between his teeth.

All the radiant sweetness of the day
seemed blotted out before him. It was
very well for that child there innocently to
accept this fiction about the boat ; but did
not he, Dino, understand Gasparo better ?
A dozen stories of the handsome Captain's
powers of fascination flashed back across
him. He thought of the woman to whom
he had carried the letter that very morning.
The letter! It was a trick to get
him out of the way ; that was why Gasparo

had turned that friendly smiling face upon
him, and talked of ' old times,' of ' days
when they were boys together,' and all the
while he was planning this visit to Italia —
damn him !

He forgot all about Italia's presence.
With a sudden prophetic feeling he seemed
looking straight ahead into the future. He
could see exactly what would happen, such
an old, old story ; and to think that such
misery could even come near Italia, his
little playfellow, his little girl. If he had
only known in time ; if he had warned that
strange lady when he spoke to her this
morning, that would indeed have been
fighting Gasparo with his own weapons !
And then he remembered the tone of her
voice when she spoke to him ; to him, a
man, not a girl, thrown upon her mercy.

1 When the waves beat too fiercely against
the shore the rock breaks them she said.
And he was to go away, he had sworn it,
and it was in such hands that he was to
leave the future of Italia !

He had been silent so long that she
thought him very tired. Perhaps he was
depressed, too, about this sudden change
in his fortunes. His mother might have
been finding fault with him ; Italia was
always a little afraid of the Sora Catarina,
who was associated in her mind with dark
reproving looks and a generally grave and
joyless view of life. It was always a matter
of secret wonder to her when she heard
her father allude to the days when Dino's
mother had been a young and handsome
girl. In her heart Italia could never imagine
her looking otherwise than imperious

and miserable. It seemed quite probable
now that she should be the cause of Dino's
look of unhappiness.

1 1 think you would be pleased to hear
one thing,' she said gently. 'Signor Gasparoo
was talking to me this morning about
my father. You know the old Marchese
always used to say that he should leave
my father something in his will because of
the service he did that night when the
steamer was wrecked. You know, Dino ;
when we were children. And Signor
Gasparo says that since his father forgot
to put it into his will in writing, it makes
no difference at all. He is going to speak
to the lawyers and to the Signora
Marchesa about it, and my father will
have the money just the same. It is a
great deal of money, three hundred francs,

in gold. Father can buy a new boat with it
dear father ! Are you not glad, Dino ? '
She was silent for a moment, and then, for
the first time, a shadow came across her
face. ' I thought you would be so glad.
That was half the pleasure of it, — the
telling you,' she said rather wistfully.

1 1 am glad,' Dino answered, in a harsh
mechanical voice.

And then the blank look of disappointment
on the sweet face bending over him
struck him like a pang. He sat up, rubbing
both hands over his head, and ruffling
up his thick curly hair. ' My Italia, you
must know without my telling you if I am
glad to hear of any good fortune coming
to you or to Drea. But you must be
patient with me this morning, carina. I have
things to vex me ; and I am very weary

'Poor Dino ! It is my fault for tiring
you. But I will sing to you now. That
will rest you better than anything else
she said soothingly, gazing down at him
with frank loving eyes.

Dino smiled faintly. This sudden reawakening
of thought was like the clutch
of a physical pain. ' Sing to me with
your guitar. That is more formal. It is
more like making a stranger of me,' he
said, answering her look. As she moved
away he shut his eyes, and buried his face
again on his folded arm. The last hope
was gone. After this what would be the
use of warning Drea ? The simple loyal-hearted
old man was as incapable of
tempering his gratitude for a gift, with
a criticism of the giver's motives as
the veriest child. His little store of

wisdom held no formula for such a case.
It would be next to impossible to make
him believe in any form of treachery connected
with the handsome open-handed
young master ; and, even if it were possible,
Dino foresaw only too clearly what
would be the first — the immediate result.
For had he not pledged himself to care
for and protect Italia ? And what more
natural than that her father should turn to
him in this emergency ?

He lay so quiet that Italia believed
him to be half asleep. She looked down
at him two or three times as she sat there
tuning her guitar ; but as he did not move
she did not speak to him. Presently she
began to sing.

She sang song after song ; odds and
ends of old ballads ; love-catches such as

the peasants sing to themselves while the
sheep are grazing; full rhythmical snatches of
modern Greek she had learned from .
She sang softly, a mezzo voce, with
an exquisite liquid tenderness in her voice,
like the lowest notes of a brooding bird.

Once, as there came a sound of dripping
oars, she broke off suddenly. A boat
passed very near them, and she nodded
with a smile to the stout man in the faded
uniform who was seated in the bows.

'What is it ?' asked Dino, without lifting
his head — he too had heard the sharp
click of the rowlocks.

1 Dino ! are you awake ? And I thought
you were sleeping so sweetly. Did that
boat wake you then ? It was nothing ;
only the custom-house men rowing old
Captain Piero home to get his dinner.

See ! there he is still waving his hand tome.
I see him every day ; he always
passes at this hour.'

But he does not always see you singing
a visitor asleep,' said Dino, sitting up
rather hastily and looking after the departed
boat. 'No, I was not dreaming,
my Italia ; unless it be a dream to feel
one's whole heart and soul full of you.'
The words slipped out unintentionally ;
an instant later he would have given anything
to recall them. He felt sure she had
taken in their full meaning by the very
silence which fell upon her. She sat absolutely
motionless ; he was sure of it, but
he would not trust himself to look at her.
He only added, in a tone which he tried
to make quite impersonal, ' I am afraid
your Captain Piero will only have a poor

ITALIA. 221

opinion of my politeness. Do you think
we could explain to him that I was not
quite so insensible as I seemed ? '

I don't know,' said Italia, rising and
laying down the guitar. She moved away
a few steps and stood leaning against the
gray buttress, her scarlet neck handkerchief
making a vivid spot of colour there
like a flower.

1 1 can see — I think I can see my father's
boat,' she said, bending forward and taking
hold of the edge of the bridge's arch.

1 Take care ! '

Dino got up and went and stood beside
her.

Don't lean too far forward, dear. Is
that Drea's boat ? What eyes you have,
my Italia! See, the wind is against her;
she will have to come in on another tack

The patched sail bent and dipped ashe
spoke. The boat seemed gliding away
from them.

He looked down at her. They were
standing so close together now he could
see the quick rise and fall of her breath ;
the stirring of the wind in her roughened
hair ; the quivering shadow where the long
lashes rested on her cheek.

One hand hung loosely by her side. He
barely touched it, with fingers that trembled.

'Italia!'

What were resolutions or remembrance ?
All the world had faded away ; there were
no living presences now but himself and
this girl beside him, and that far-off winged
boat moving slowly towards them across
the shining water. ' My Italia ?' She
turned a radiant face towards him. The

momentary shyness which had made her
leave her place was gone now ; there was
only left a deep look of rapture in the dark
loving eyes.

1 Yes, Dino. You do love me. I know
it,' she said simply. She did not change her
expectant attitude ; but she moved her hand
until the little brown fingers clasped his.

They stood so for fully a minute without
speaking, their eyes fixed on the approaching
boat. 'And you love me too, Italia?
You will say that you love me?' Dino
said in a half whisper. He had not meant
to say this. He had resolved not to say it ;
but what was the good of prudence now ?
The patched sail was drawing nearer ; there
was only this one moment left in which
fearfully to snatch at perfect joy. He held
his breath lest she should delay to speak.

But Italia answered him with grave simplicity.
There was not the shadow of a
doubt in her heart, not a cloud upon her
heaven of content. Perhaps they had never
been farther apart, these two, in all their
sensations, than at this first moment of
supreme understanding.

T do love you,' she said, in her clear full
voice. And then at the sound of her own
words she started ; Dino felt the movement
of her fingers in his ; her eyes filled with
happy tears, and the colour swept in a quick
wave over her pale face and throat. ' I
think I have always loved you — after my
father — always, since I was a little girl, my
Dino,' she said softly.

Only — after your father, Italia ?'

She hesitated ; but he had asked his
question an instant too late, for now the

wind had really caught the flapping sail of
the Bella Maria ; they could see the quick
movement of old Drea's hand on the tiller,
and hear his voice calling out an order to
Maso. In another moment the two men had
brought the old brown boat cleverly alongside.
Dino made a quick catch at the rope
that was flung to him ; there was a momentary
struggle of strong-armed Maso with
the heavy sail.

1 Well, lad,' said Drea, standing up at his
place by the helm and looking about him.
Well, my little girl ! '

1 Was it a good morning's work, father ? '

4 Mali ! . . . I've seen worse days, child,
I've seen worse days. Mind what you are
about with those nets, you Maso ! That's
right, lad ; give him a hand. We wanted
another man with us, but I've seen worse

vol. i. Q

hauls for all that. You'll be ready to go
out with us to-night, eh, Dino ? '

Yes, Sor Drea.'

'Ay, ay. You'd have come with us this
morning fast enough, I'm thinking, but the
girl there wouldn't hear of my sending for
you. "He has had a hard day ; he will be
so tired, father," she said. Tired ! Satis
Vergine! and she a sailor's daughter !'
The old man chuckled, straightening his
back and rubbing his stiffened shoulder
joints. ' But, bless you, they're all alike,
and even one's own daughter is a woman.
Women ! they'll pray all day for rain, and
be frightened the first minute they see a
cloud in the sky. — You'll get your dinner
here, Maso.'

Maso, a broad-backed young fellow in a
blue jacket, looked up from the wet heap

ITALIA. 227

of nets with a smile which showed all his
white teeth. 'Ay, Sor Drea.'

'And I must be off home,' said Dino,
looking at Italia.

'Ay, lad. You'll stay another time likely.
There won't be too much dinner to-day for
three of us,' the fisherman said simply, ' and
Maso has earned his share. The chestnut
is for the man who takes its shell off : that's
my way o' thinking.'

1 I could not stop in any case ; thanking
you kindly all the same, Sor Drea. I told
my mother I'd be back to dinner. By the
way, I was to ask you if it is all settled
about our going up there ? ' he nodded in
the direction of Monte Nero.

Ay, ay. Tis settled for Sunday fast
enough. Sora Catarina has only to get
herself ready. We might have had worse

luck, Maso ; we might have had worse luck.
'Twas stiffish work with only two of us,'
old Drea said, sitting down on the edge of
the platform with his feet in the boat to
light his pipe. ' Mal ! . . . che volet ?
There's nothing like the day after a storm
for finding out the colour o' the bottom o'
things. There's good in every wind that
blows, lad, for a man who knows how to set
his sail.'

He thrust a heap of the wet shining fish
aside with his foot.

'When there's not so many o' the big
there's more o' the little. You know what
I'm always telling you. The Devil himself,
con rispetto parlando, the Devil himself hasa
curly tail.'

END OF VOL. I.

;f

«■■■■

IH ill

Hi S$3£

|i :,#vtf Wet

1 ^Hl nil

■ ■ H

■

H 1 1 H I *&a& I

■n

chill

m^^i

«■

HHHL

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

Illlllllllilll

3 0112 045841811

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

%



f

L161— O-1096

BY

GEORGE FLEMING

AUTHOR OF
A NILE NOVEL,' ' MIRAGE,' ' THE HEAD OF MEDUSA,' ETC.

VOL. II.

Vestigia nulla retrorsum '

Pontoon

MACMILLAN AND CO.



CONTENTS.

CHAPTER III.
By the Light of a Torch . 46

CHAPTER IV.
La mort dans lame . . . .62

CHAPTER V.
Choosing 91

CHAPTER VI.

PAGE

On the Buoy . . . . .117

CHAPTER VII.
Believing . . . . . .138

CHAPTER VIII.

A last Chance . . . * .156

CHAPTER IX.
With Valdez . . . . . 168

CHAPTER X.

Good-bye . . . . . . 202

CHAPTER XI.

The Firing of the Shot . . . 225

CHAPTER XII.

Vestigia nulla retrorsum . . . 245

CHAPTER I.

INCIDENTAL.

There was a letter waiting at home for
Dino. ' It stands there on the dresser ;
give it to your brother, child. One of
Lucia's little nephews brought it, maybe
half an hour after you were gone,' Sora
Catarina said.

1 It was Beppi brought it, Dino. He
came with it on his way to school. He
likes going to school ; I asked him, and he
said, "Yes." Mother, why don't I go to
school ? I wish I went to school,' said
Palmira, in a complaining tone.

VOL. II. B

1 School indeed ! and a nice place you
would find it, bambino, mia. Nay, you be
content to stay where you are looked after
and get plenty to eat. Gesu Maria! 'tis
all very well for such as Lucia's nipotini,
poor children — 'twill maybe take their
minds off their hunger, learning to read.
But learning's a poor sauce to empty plates
in my opinion."

Doesn't Beppi have anything to eat
but empty plates ? ' asked Palmira, opening
wide her eyes. She added, after a
moment's reflection, ' But you gave him
some white bread to-day, mother. I saw
you do it.'

Nay, eat your dinner, child, and talk
afterwards. Don't you see your brother
is reading ? ' said Sora Catarina, in a
lowered tone, passing her two hands over

the little girl's hair under pretence of adjusting
her pinafore.

The letter was from Valdez. All the
time he had spent in walking home Dino
had been thinking of Valdez, planning
about him, rehearsing in his own mind the
words of some wild appeal which was to free
him once for all from the intolerable burden
laid upon his life. Last night seemed
so far away. He had passed through a
whole world of emotion since then. He
had put Italia between himself and his
promises to those men ; he had made
himself responsible for her happiness, and
it was impossible, even Valdez with all his
fanaticism must see that — it was impossible
she should be made to suffer for him.
Out-of-doors there, looking at Maso's
good-natured simple face, with old Drea's

cheery voice in his ears, it had somehow
seemed such an easy natural thing that
matters should arrange themselves. But
this note was like a death-warrant. Before
he opened it he knew there was no
hope : the shadow had closed around him.

There were but three lines :

I have reason to fear we are watched.
Do not try to see, or communicate with,
me until you hear again. Be prudent and
patient : you will hear in good time. The
child who brings this lives in my house,
and is a safe messenger.'

There was no signature.

Dino crushed the note up in his hand
with an impulse of personal enmity. He
turned away from the window and took
his seat at the table without a word, but
no effort of self-control could keep his lips

from turning white, or alter the fixed look
of pain about his eyes.

1 The letter was from Pietro Valdez,
surely ? Was it bad news, figliuolo ?
What has happened, in the name of all
the blessed saints ! ' said Sora Catarina,
clasping her hands and looking at him.

He made an effort to smile as he said,
Nothing, mother ; it's nothing. Valdez
only writes to say I shall not see him ; he
will be busy for a day or two.'

1 And is it not seeing that man could
make your face go the colour of a piece of
linen bleaching in the sun ? Nzy^figlhiolo
mio, I am not one of those people who
think they are seeing through a wall when
all the time they are looking at their own
reflections in a looking-glass. 'Tis nothing
an old man could write you would

turn your face that colour.' She lowered
her voice. 'Tell me the truth, Dino.
You have been having a quarrel with
Italia?'

No, indeed, mother said Dino, pushing
away his plate and standing up. He
could not swallow the food before him.
He could see that his mother was not convinced
by his denial, but it was easier to
leave her under any delusion rather than
to submit longer to the worry of a cross-examination.
He took refuge in saying,
I am not well ; my head aches. I don't
want any dinner. I shall go and lie
down.'

1 Yes, my Dino, yes. Lie down.
Santissima Vergine, that it may not be the
fever ! ' said Sora Catarina, crossing herself
devoutly.

She kept going to the door of his room
to look at him at intervals all the afternoon.
About six o'clock Maso called
with a long message from old Drea. The
Marchese Gasparo had hired the boat fora
three days' trip to Viareggio. If Dino
was coming, he was to be ready immediately
: the wind was fair, and Drea proposed
to start before seven. ' He said I
was to tell you the boat would be back on
Saturday night, in time for Monte Nero,'
Maso concluded, looking carefully into the
crown of his hat and shaking it, as though
to assure himself that he had forgotten
there no part of his commission.

He waited for Dino at the door, and
they walked down to the pier together.
Gasparo was standing smoking a cigar at
the head of the steps under a gas-lamp.

He nodded cheerfully to Dino. ' That's
right, old fellow. Glad you are coming
he said. The two men were with him
whom Dino had seen at the door of the
Giappone ' that morning.

They seemed to have many friends at
Viareggio. The Bella Maria was kept
in constant readiness, for there was no
telling at what hour a message might not
come down from some neighbouring villa,
to be followed shortly by a company of
pleasure-seekers bound for a sail. On one
occasion Dino saw a face he knew among
the cloaked and furred figures whom
Gasparo was handing so carefully onboard.


There was an unsteady wind that afternoon,
and the boat was heavily laden : it
was some time before Dino could look

away from his task of watching the uncertain
half filled sails, but when at last
the breeze struck them fully and the
Bella Maria ran out of harbour on a
long smooth tack, he could not resist his
wish to see if he too had been recognised.


The Contessa must have been watching
him, for the moment he turned his
head their eyes met. He took off his
woollen cap hastily, without speaking.
She kept her dark eyes fixed steadily
upon him for a moment.

1 You have taken my advice then ?
This is wiser than building barricades
she said in a low voice.

She looked as if she might have
added something more, but at that moment
Gasparo, who was sitting beside

her sheltering her from the sun by holding
up her parasol, — Gasparo leaned forward
and repeated some remark.

The Contessa laughed. 'You think
so, vraiementf It is not my experience.
I find it is not only the virtues which
require a certain elbow-room in which
comfortably to expand. Some people
fight against their own selfishness in this
world, but mostly they fight the selfishness
of their neighbours.'

And why not ? After all, it's other
people's selfishness that one objects to,'
said Gasparo gaily.

And that is only out of disinterestedness,'
struck in another man, who had
not yet spoken. 'You are too severe
upon us, Contessa. One never tires of
virtue.'

She lifted her delicate eyebrows inquiringly.


Well — not of other people's virtue :
one tires of one's own perhaps.'

1 But it's so seldom one has the chance
of that! added Gasparo lightly, pulling
with one hand at the fringe of the big
parasol. He had distinctly heard what
had been said to Dino ; but now, as his
eye rested upon him, he nodded in a
half-careless, half-friendly manner. ' She's
going better now. We shall get more
wind beyond the breakwater, eh, lad ? '

1 Yes, sir,' said Dino, putting on his
cap again and going forward to coil
away a loose rope.

Everything he had noticed in the last
day or two made him feel safer about
Gasparo. The young Marchese was an

excellent sailor ; he was absorbed in his
present amusement ; the two young men
had not exchanged a word unconnected
with the management of the boat.

Those three last days had seemed to
Dino to pass like a dream. After his
sedentary habits of life between the four
walls of an office, the mere fact of being
always out-of-doors and always actively
employed would have sufficed to change
all his impressions. He was intoxicated
with fresh air, with sunlight, and the
exhilarating sense of energetic work.
There's no life like it, lad ; no life like
it,' old Drea told him more than once.
1 Other men may make a better living,
I'm not denying it ; but to be content
with what one gets in this world is to
be the master of it. When you're as

old as I am you'll find that you can't
put one foot in two shoes, boy ; it's a
good plan to know what you want and
be contented with it when you've got ita
rare good plan.'

1 If only wanting were enough to get
it,' said Dino bitterly.

1 Lad, lad ! Bologna car tempo al
tempo — give time time enough to work
in. But you youngsters are all alike ;
you expect to smell fried fish before the
nets are even cast into the water.'

'That 'ud be a poor look-out for
supper,' observed silent Maso with a
grin.

1 What ! were you listening to what I
was saying? Then I'm bound you'll be
whistling for a wind before long, my
boy ; — you know the old saying, when

you see a donkey listening it's a sign
the weather is changing,' retorted old
Drea, shifting his pipe in his mouth and
giving vent to a dry chuckle.

But presently, as Maso moved away,
Dino looking up found the old man's
keenly inquiring glance fixed full upon
him.

We've known each other a good many
years, and each of us knows pretty well
what timber the other's boat is built of.
Without wasting breath, boy, — is there
anything troubling you ? '

Dino doubled up his fist and struck
one of the rowlocks tighter into its place.
Oh ! every one is more or less troubled,'
he said evasively.

Ay ; but there's a difference, there's
a difference, boy. Little worries, Lord

bless you ! they're everywhere. And
they're like a grain o' sand in your eye,
no use to any mortal man, out or in.
But real trouble's a different thing. I'm
not saying there's no use in it, or even
that a man ought to hope to escape it ;
it's only a fool would expect the wind
always to be blowing from the same
point o' the compass. And a real sorrow
an old sorrow — I've known it to act
like ballast. It's heavy; ay; but it trims
the boat. There's many a man wouldn't
sail so straight about his day's work if
there wasn't some dead weight o' that
sort at his heart to steady him.'

He was silent for a moment, and then
once more he looked with a kindly affectionate
glance at the young man's flushed
and averted face. ' I'm not asking for

more than you want to tell, lad. When
a real friend has got two eyes to look at
you with, sometimes the best service he
can do you is to keep one o' them shut.
There's nothing easier than to sail when
the right wind's blowing ; you'll tell me
all about it fast enough when the time
comes. Animo ! correggio, palazzo !
It's a poor business looking at the sun
with a cloudy face.'

He gave a searching look at the horizon,
"We'll be in in half an hour more
if the wind holds — we'll have her snug
in harbour before sunset. And then, hey !
for a clear sky tomorrow and a day at
Monte Nero. To-morrow'll be the finest
day we've had this week, and I'm glad
o't, I'm glad o't. I don't like having my
little girl disappointed.' He turned his

head towards the sunny semicircle of
houses of the distant city, ' She'll be
waiting there now to see us come in, che
Dio la bene die a ! '

Dino, too, was secretly preoccupied
with the prospect of that approaching
meeting. He was the first to see her as
they ran the long oars out to pull the
boat in across the smooth water of the
inner port. He saw her scarlet handkerchief,
a spot of colour a long way off
beneath the shadow of the bridge. She
was standing in the same place as when
he had last seen her, and it was like a
good omen that he should have been the
first to discover her at that distance.

She spoke first of all to her father, but
as she put her little hand into his Dino
was exquisitely conscious of the quick

VOL. II. c

tremor of joy which made her heart beat
at his touch. There was irresistible delight
in the mere fact of being near her.
And there was no lack of brightness now
in the face which turned towards her, orin
the voice which wished her ' Goodnight
! '

Until tomorrow, Dino,' she said, following
him to the foot of the stone steps.
A domini, care ! '

There was a bright fire and a welcome
waiting for him in the old room at home.
He stood before the blaze talking for
several moments before he crossed the
room to look at the shelf above the
dresser where the letters were put. '

Are you expecting anything ? There
are no letters for you, my Dino ; no, not
even one little letter. Are you sorry ?

Do you mind ? ' Palmira asked, rather
anxiously.

He stooped to kiss her. ' No, little
one. I was only looking. I don't really
want it at all he said laughingly.

It seemed like another good omen
that there should be no news from
Valdez.

ON THE WAY UP.

The small stone-paved piazza of Monte
Nero was crowded with men, women, and
children, gathered together for the yearly
pilgrimage of the Madonna. On one side
of the. square a flight of stone steps led upto
the door of the church : the heavy
leather curtain was rolled up half its
length and fastened back to be out of the
way of the coming procession ; and massive
wreaths of flowers and fruit swung
from cornice to cornice above the open
door. It was too early in the year as
yet for many bright - coloured flowers,

but the wreaths were white with the bloom
of the first almond trees that had blossomed,
and long rows of ripe oranges and lemons,
threaded like beads upon a cord, were
fastened in festoons about the old gray
stones. The gold and softest pinky white
looked very pretty hanging high up in the
afternoon sunlight above the heads of the
people.

It wanted a good hour and a half yet to
the time appointed for the procession, and
the cafe which stood on the opposite side
of the square, and the open-air booths
which clustered about its lower end, were
alike full of eager, laughing, pushing,
hungry holiday-making folk. The most
correct place to be recognised in by one's
friends was, doubtless, at one of those small
green tables in the shade in front of the

caffettieres ; but for that matter there were
people enough everywhere, people all over
the place, not to mention the two constant
streams, one ascending and one returning, up
and down, the worn old steps of the church.
These were composed for the most part of
women, leading small dressed-up children
by the hand. The men were content to
wait outside until the church bell itself
should put an indisputable end to the little
friendly glasses of bitter vermouth and the
gossip. They stood about in groups, a
sunburned hardy lot of fishermen and
sailors, for the Santissima Madonna of
Monte Nero is known to be the especial
friend and patron of seafaring men ; the
church is crowded with votive offerings,
rude pictures of sinking barks and drowning
men, and always, in the corner, the

glorified vision of the Virgin descending
upon the waters to bless and save. The
ceilings of some of the side chapels are
completely hidden from view by rows of
these representations.

Monte Nero itself can hardly be said
to deserve its name of a mountain, being
nothing in fact but a high grass-grown hill,
rising behind the city of Leghorn and commanding
a superb view of the sea. Near
the top the country presents the appearance
of a succession of grassy downs, across
which a narrow path takes a short cut from
the winding carriage road to the summit,
and at this particular moment Lucia and
Italia were walking hand in hand along this
pathway, while Dino followed on the grass
at Italias side. The old people had remained
in the castella with Palmira.

I don't think much of your plan of chartering
a ship to get out before the voyage
is half over, children. But do as you like,
ragazzi, do as you like. What, you too,
Lucia ? Nay, I gave you credit for more
sense than that, my woman. You'll not find
Sora Catarina here getting out of a comfortable
carriage to walk up a devil of a hill.'

But Lucia is perfectly right. Some one
must go with Italia. It would not look well
if she were to be met walking alone with a
young man,' interposed Sora Catarina very
decidedly.

E — e — h, burn anima mia, the scandal
would be bigger than the sin.'

Catarina looked at him a little scornfully.
You were different once ; long ago. I
wonder if there is anything that you would
really trouble yourself about now, Andrea?'

Well, there's my little girl. There isn't
much else, I suppose,' said Drea good-naturedly.
' You know the saying we have,
we sailors, — a wide shoe and a full belly,
and take the storms as they come. That's
my way of thinking.'

1 Ah murmured Catarina, drawing her
shawl more closely about her.

They had been young together, these
two. Catarina could remember a time
when to be alone with her, as now, would
have been the measure of happiness to the
hopeful, ardent young lover whom the slow
years had changed into this weather-beaten
old man. To a woman's eyes there is
always an atmosphere of youth left about
any man who has made love to her, no
matter how the years have passed since
then. And it made no difference to her

secret feeling of reproachfulness that she
herself had perhaps much to answer for in
this general lowering of Andrea's estimate
of life. A woman betrays and remembers
where a man betrays and forgets. And at
that particular moment faithfulness seemed
to Catarina to sum up all the virtues.

In autumn the morning freshness of the
wood lingers late : there is something of
the coolness of the dawn in the pine shadows
long after the fruitful warmth has fallen
upon the fields. And in some natures,
growing old, there is left somewhat of this
same touch of virginal freshness and charm.
I think it is oftener the case with women
who have been unhappy in their youth —
who have missed the placid midsummer fruition
of content. They bear in their hearts
an eternal unsatisfied belief in the spring.

She looked at Italia and Dino walking
away across the sunny grass slopes: it
seemed not so many years since she too
had been walking there, going on the same
errand to the same old church. She watched
them with eyes grown bitter with a dreary
sense of loss : it was like watching the
mocking phantom of her own youth.

But to them the day seemed lengthening
out into uncounted hours of pleasure.
The sky was cloudless. The spring wind
blowing over their faces held a magic of
its own. ' Come and walk on the grass,
Sora Lucia. Never mind the path — there
is no place in the world like these downs.
The air changes as it blows over the
grass ; it is like some one breathing ; like a
breath that comes and goes,' said Dino, taking
off his hat and turning to face the wind.

1 Look at the sea now. How far it is
below us,' said Italia, stopping too and
looking back.

1 What a sea-bird it is he said, meeting
her eyes with a smile of happy confidence.
'What would you do if you had to live
inland, Italia ?'

1 Oh, I could not do it. I should
stifle. I am always thirsty where I cannot
hear the sound of the waves.'

1 How can you possibly tell where you
may have to live, filia mia f It is true
one does not go away from one's own
town if one can help it, but a girl before
she is married is like a bit of thistle-down,
who can tell which way the wind will blow
her ?' asked Lucia in her subdued voice.
She, too, was dressed for the festa, and
her neat black gown contrasted with the

blue and scarlet of the girl's holiday dress,
much in the same fashion as her thin face,
with its unvarying look of decent disappointment,
served as a background for the
young radiance of the face by her side.
1 How can you tell whom your father will
wish you to marry ? It might be someone
who came from a long way off, — like
Dino's friend, the Signor Valdez, who
lodges in our house. He comes from a
country where they do not speak Italian,
for all he looks so like a Christian.'

I have not seen old Valdez lately,'
Dino began.

If he wished to ask any questions
Lucia spared him the trouble.

'He is a kind man that, — the blessed
saints reward him,' she said, with a sudden
fervour. ' And to think how long it took

us to find it out, — and the world is hard
enough, God knows, without one shutting
one's mouth the days it rains comfits.
But, via ! we knew he was a stranger from
over sea. What would you ? when he
said " burn giorno " or " felicissima note "
as one passed him on the stairs it was
like a bear growling ; it did not sound
like real Italian. Many and many a day
have I gone away to my work with the old
nonne locked in our room, and my heart
in my mouth, not knowing if it were
better to leave her there, with all the
children, and not a soul to go near them
in case of fire. And me never so much
as dreaming of asking Signor Pietro to
stop sometimes when he passed the door
to give them a look. Ah, he is a good
heart, he is. And, as for his never speaking,

well, there's evil talking enough in the
world, God knows ! a man can do worse
things with his tongue than keep it quiet.
As for those children, they are fairly bewitched
; there's that Beppi, he follows
Signor Pietro about like his shadow. It's
Signor Pietro who pays now for his schooling,
and such a bright lad as it is ! You
should have seen him the other day when
Signor Pietro told him first about his
going off on a journey. Nothing would
content the boy but bringing back his
geography book from the school to show
the nonne all the places.'

Does — does Pietro talk of going away,
then ?' asked Dino, his heart beating
faster.

See that, now ! and you such friends.
But I always knew that Signor Pietro

could keep his own counsel. Perhaps ita
way they have over there in the countries
he comes from. Yes, he is going away.
To Pisa first, and then perhaps to Rome.
He says he wants a holiday, and no
wonder. Come lunge diventan serpe, —
drag a thing out long enough and it becomes
like a snake. And it's two years
or more since he has had a day's outing
from Leghorn.'

They had been sitting down to rest on
the short dry turf as she talked, but now,
as they rose to climb the last shoulder of
the hill, her sharp black eyes were turned
scrutinisingly upon Italia. She gave some
slight ejaculation of surprise. ' Vergine 
! Italia, you have lost your ring —
your beautiful ring. What a misfortune !
Madonna mia, what a misfortune !

Italia blushed scarlet. ' No, I have
not lost it. I did not put it on,' she
answered hurriedly. And then, after a
moment's consideration, ' Old things are
best,' she said in her sweet full voice ; ' I
did not want a new gift, — I told my father
I did not want it. He will keep it for me,
he will give it to me to wear when I am
married.'

And you will wear it that day, my
Italia?' asked Dino, looking at her and
speaking in a very low tone, yielding yet
this once more to the perilous delight of
saying what he would have said, what he
would have had the right to say, if only
he could have hoped to escape from all
the consequences of his past actions. The
instinctive conviction that this proposed
journey of Valdez's was in some way con-vol.

II. D

netted with the disposal of his own future
gave Dino a still more intense longing to
grasp at present happiness. He knew
that he was acting ungenerously ; yet, as
the girl turned her face shyly towards
him, — her red silk handkerchief tied about
her head in peasant fashion made a soft
shade about her temples and her little
ears, coming down in front in a bright
silken fold across her low forehead, hiding
all her hair, and giving an almost Oriental
look to the dark straight eyebrows and
the dark lustrous eyes. The wind and
the sun had brought a soft pink colour
into her pale oval-shaped cheeks.

She was really looking very beautiful
as she said, ' Why make plans for the
future, my Dino ? Surely we are very
happy ; we do not want things to change.

The old things are the best. Why, even
this pilgrimage to-day, — one would always
care to come, of course, just to show the
Holy Mother that one is grateful, — but
it would be so different, it would be so
sad, if we were to forget the other years
that went before. This is the happiest
year of them all, I know, yet I should not
like not to have the memory of the times
we have been here as little children. I
like the old gate there at the top because
that is the spot where we have always
waited ; I could open it myself quite
easily, but I like to remember the days
when it seemed to me wonderful that you
could unfasten the lock. It is like that
picture of my father's shipwreck, — you
know, Dino, — the ex vote up there in the
chapel. When I was a child I believed

CHAP.

it had all happened exactly like that.
Now I know it was painted by a man
who has never even seen my father, but
it makes no difference. I could never
care for a fine new picture as I do for the
old one.'

Anima mia /' said Dino passionately,
bending a little towards her, as she stood,
leaning with folded hands against the old
wooden gate. When she ceased speaking
there was something almost childlike in
the serene unconcern of her face. But
there was nothing hard, nothing self engrossed,
in this insouciance of Italias. It
was merely the expression of a nature accustomed
to a large and frank acceptance
of daily life — a genuine indifference to
petty devices. This fisherman's daughter,
in her little cotton frock, had something in

her of the wide-eyed serenity of an elder
world ; she had inherited from her father
something of his cordial simplicity — 'a
princely disregard of little things.'

It was only a minute or so before the
castella overtook them by the gate : they
all entered the crowded piazza together.

The three women hurried away to look
after the room which had been promised
them for their night's lodging, but only a
very few minutes were past before they too
were back in the piazza, for now the bells,
which had been silent all afternoon, were
pealing together with a short and merry
stroke. The procession was about to begin.

Inside the dusky church there was an
unwonted shuffling of little feet ; a wavering
of lights clutched by uncertain little hands ;
an anxious movement to and fro of blackened

/rati, marshalling and adjusting the
unruly lines of brown and flaxen heads.
It was the children's part of the procession;
and more than one woman in the crowd
felt her heart swell and her eyes grow
moist as she watched them, poveri angels !
A long broken line of small human creatures,
in brightest holiday dress, and each with
its burning taper, following the great golden
Cross as it passed solemnly, borne on men's
shoulders, out of the gloomy aisles, out
under the wreaths of spring blossom, and
down the steps into the warm afternoon
light. That was perhaps the prettiest sight
of all, as the twinkling tapers grew dim in
the sunshine. And then came rows of
young white-robed choristers, and the impassive
faces of the officiating priests ; the
low sunlight burned like a jewel upon the

tinselled stoles, and the reds and purples
of the vestments were vivid and deep like
the colour of garden flowers. The blue
cloud of incense rose straight up, with
scarcely a waver above the bent heads of
the kneeling crowd, as the Blessed Sacrament
was slowly carried around the piazza.
The afternoon was windless, and the people
so hushed, that even from the farther side
of the square the priests' solemn chanting
was distinctly audible, and the warning
tinkle of the bell.

The last to descend the steps were a
white-robed company of Brethren of the
Misericordia, with masked faces and hands
hidden away under the long folds of their
garments. They passed like a little company
of the sheeted and forgotten dead,
between the gay ranks of the holiday-makers

; and, as they emerged from the
shadows, the bells rang joyously overhead,
a peal which set them rocking from side to
side, in a visible triumph, in the old open
belfry.

This was a sign that the procession was
ended. There was an instant rush for the
now empty church ; there was just time to
visit the holy pictures before supper, and
if one had any especial prayer to offer, why,
it was but natural to expect a little prompter
attention from the saints, who might easily
be supposed to be still looking down approvingly
upon what was going on in their
honour.

Drea and his party were among the first
to re-enter the shadowy portal. There was
scarcely light enough now in the side
chapels to distinguish any unfamiliar object,

but the old fisherman walked straight
to where his own ex vote offering had hung
these many years.

Ah ! that was a night, if you like ; that
was a night to remember ! '

1 Were you frightened, father ? ' said
Italia, speaking in a whisper, not to disturb
the people kneeling all about them, and
asking the same question she had asked in
this same place, at every recurring festa of
the Blessed Madonna, since the first time
she had been brought there, a small wide-eyed
creature clinging to her father's hand.

Nay, child, nay. It 'ud be a poor
business if one's courage did not hold fast
in the right place. It 'ud be like fastening
one's boat up with a rotten cable, there'd
be no depending upon anything then. But
it was a night, that. A man who doesn't

live at sea doesn't know the meaning of a
prayer. Not that we had much time for
speaking ; but it seemed to come natural to
think of the Holy Virgin then, — just as I
thought of you, sleeping in your little
bed.'

He looked at the picture again. 'Ay.
We brought off the men and a fine bit of
salvage ; I mind me how pleased the old
master was when I went up to the Villa to
tell him about it. He was in his bed, I
remember, and he wore a thing with a frill
round his face, like a woman's night-cap.
He was finely pleased. Everybody used
to say he was going to leave me something
in his will — something over and above my
wages — as a sort of thank you. Your
mother used to count upon it, poor soul !
and so did I for a bit — I should have taken

it kindly of the old master, I should, if he
had remembered it at the last. We knew
each other many a year.'

Dino and Italia exchanged a meaning
glance.

And if it were to come now, father ?
that would be better still ; you could get a
new boat,' she said, with a smile of irrepressible
pleasure.

1 Nay, child, the will was proven long
ago. If there was ever any money coming
to me — and the old master used to say
there was, he used to say so — it stuck in
the lawyers' hands years ago, like a boat
aground. It never made any difference in
my way o' remembering the old master.
It would be but a poor look-out if one could
serve the same master faithfully for twenty
years — and I so used to him, knowing just

what he meant when he swore the loudest
it 'ud be but a poor look-out if it only
meant losing one's liking at the end of it.
Tis a weak friendship that's so ready to call
for the blessed sacraments at the first little
knock on the head ; — that's my way o'
thinking.'

It was growing dusk, outside as well as
in when they left the dim church, with its
smell of fresh crushed bay-leaves underfoot
mingling with the stale incense smoke, ina
way which always carried Dino's memory
back to very early days, when his father
was still a trifle undecided about the exact
relations of Church and State, and not unwilling
to give his little boy the treat of
staring at the lighted candles of the festa.
The remembrance of his dead father's face
rose vividly before him, and he lingered

for an instant behind the others at the door,
looking back.

As he hurried on to rejoin Italia old
Drea touched him on the shoulder. ' The
women will go to bed early, but I want you
to come out a bit with me after supper,
lad. I want to have a talk with you,' he
said.

BY THE LIGHT OF A TORCH.

They came out of their lodging, an hour
later, into the deserted square. Lights
were flaring in nearly every window, and
in every house was to be heard the
rattling of bottles and plates, and men's
voices calling for more wine. But it was
quiet enough out here, under the stars, in
the empty piazza, where the last booths
were being closed for the night.

They strolled over to the lower part of
the square, and sat down upon the parapet
; Drea was lighting his pipe.

Look here, lad,' he began abruptly

The match in his hand went out, he felt
for another in all his pockets, swearing the
while at the mischance.

1 May the devil fly away with all fine
clothes, say I. For why should a man
change his coat any more than his skin ?
I've worn this jacket every festa for the
last twelve years, and I never yet could
learn the trick o' its inside.'

1 I've got lights,' said Dino.

- Nay, lad, where there's a way out
there's a way in. I'll not be beat by it,
thanking you kindly.'

He puffed at his pipe thoughtfully before
he spoke again.

'It's a good many years now since the
first time I came up here. Lord, how the

years go ! I mind me Your mother

was a young woman then, Dino ; no older

than my little girl there, and I was a wild
young fellow. Well, well ; it seems more
than one lifetime ago. I'm getting to
be an old man now, my Dino. It gave
me a start the other night to hear our
young master speak of it, but it's true
enough for all that.'

Perhaps it is. But you never seem
old to me, Sor Drea.'

I've had my turn at it, lad ; I can't
complain. But maybe the Captain was
right about my settling down ; maybe he
was right. I don't suppose I can be far
off sixty. The old master lived to be
seventy-two, he did ; but then he lived
like a wax image packed in cotton wool.
And when a mans knocking about day
and night, why, Death needs no lantern
to find him.'

He took his pipe out of his mouth and
looked at it.

1 There isn't much to leave behind me,
lad. Only the old boat, and Italia. She'll
miss me, will my little girl. She's wonderful
fond of her old father. But you'll look
after her ; you'll be good to her, Dino ? '

There was no answer.

1 You see, it isn't as if I were leaving
her to strangers. But I've been fond o'
you, boy, since you were that high ; when
you used to come to play with her in the
old boat, and I used to sit and watch you
and wish I had a little curly-headed chap
like you, that 'ud grow up and help me
about the nets. My girl's a good girl ;
but a boy 'ud have been different.'

He was silent for a moment ; then he
put his pipe back into his mouth and gave

VOL. II. E

a slight chuckle. ' There's no basket without
its handle; that's sure enough. I've
got 'em both now, girl and boy too. I
was an old fool not to have thought of it
sooner ; but it's difficult to see that the
children have grown up, when you remember
them so high. Well, lad, I give you
joy, I do. She's very fond o you. There's
only one thing I want to speak to you about.
It's all plain sailing before you then.'

And what is that ? ' asked Dino, very
quietly.

His face was in shadow, but there was
that in his voice which startled the old
man with a foreboding of coming trouble.
He leaned forward, peering anxiously into
the darkness. 'Eh? what's that, lad,
what's that you're saying ? '

'You say there is one thing you wish

to speak to me about before — before I can
be affianced to Italia. I ask you what it is.'

Nay, my Dino, I said nought about
being affianced, if that's what's troubling
you. Not but what I could easily find
another husband for her ; there's Maso, now ;
as honest a lad as ever hauled at a rope, and
a good bit o' money too, all in the bank.
But what does that matter? I've never
promised her to you ; but it would be but a
poor sort o' friendship that only depended
upon words. I've done more than give you
my promise, lad ; I've trusted you, I have

1 Good God ! ' said Dino, under his
breath, looking up with blank eyes at the
clear starlit sky above him.

'There's no need for many words to
settle it.' He hesitated ; and then went
on with sudden fluency as if the long

>$$*««"»*

meditated speech were forcing its own way-out.
' See here, lad. It's not so much
more than a week since you lost your
place because o' that infernal tomfoolery
of a procession. I'm not casting it up at
you, my boy ; not I. But there 'tis ; you
made a mistake. It might have been a
worse one, for you meant no harm, and as
things go it's all turned out for the best.
I wouldn't have cared to marry my little
girl to a writing fellow, and you've got the
make of a sailor in you, lad ; I always said
it. When God Almighty shuts one door
in an honest man's face, if you look about
you you'll see He's opened another. But
it might ha' turned out different.'

He lowered his voice, and added : ' I
don't blame you, but I've kept my ears
open, and there are things said about you

that I don't like ; I don't like. When a
man lets his net down to the bottom he's
sure to catch mud. I saw your father doit.
He called himself a republican too.
You must give it up, my Dino.'

1 1 can't do that,' said Dino, in a very
low voice.

The words implied so much to himself
that he could scarcely believe in the reality
of things — he felt involved in the fantastic
irony of a dream — when Drea burst out
laughing, good-naturedly.

Why, lad, you don't understand me ?
Where are your wits ? I am speaking
Italian, mi pare. It isn't to oblige me I
want you to give up that confounded club
of yours, and all the nonsense that goes
with it. It's so that you can marry Italia.
Why, lad, one would think that I was torturing

you instead of telling you how to
marry your sweetheart. You one o' those
damned radical rogues, my Dino, the little
chap I taught how to handle an oar ?
Come, come, lad, drop the nonsense. It's
being shut up between four walls that put
it into you, I'll go bail. Politics! Lord
bless you ! a capful o' wind will soon blow
'em out of you. They're like weevils in a
biscuit, they eat all the good ; you can't get
rid o' them too quickly.'

1 Drea, it is you who will not understand.
You are unjust ; you have always been
unjust to my father. But his ideas are

mine. I will not ' he stopped, with a

horrible sense of sinking at his heart.
What were these ideas to which he professed
himself so willing to sacrifice all the
rest ? But it was imperatively necessary

to make Drea understand the situation.
1 1 cannot give up my — my convictions.
For no reason in the world. Not even to
marry Italia.'

There was an instant of terrible silence.

1 Are you mad, boy ? ' demanded Drea,
in a sort of subdued growl.

I am not mad,' Dino answered.

It was a relief to look forward to an
explosion of the old man's anger ; anything
anything rather than that tone of affectionate
trust.

I am not mad. I don't know why I'm
not. I'm unhappy enough for that, or for
anything else,' he said, wearily.

Unhappy ! '

The old man checked himself, breathing
hard.

One of the last vendors of cakes and

CHAP.

sweetmeats had gone, leaving his torch of
tarred stick to flare itself away in the
empty piazza. Drea sat rigid, his eyes
fixed upon that spot of light. But he was
too deeply moved to keep quiet : the old
habit of affection was strong upon him ; it
was stronger than his pride. ' I would not
have believed it of you, Dino. But you'll
think better of it, lad ; you'll think better of
it. One thinks that one has only to pick
and chose in life when one is young. When
a boat is running straight before the wind
any fool can steer her. Later on you
begin to find out that things have their
own consequences ; you might as well ask
for a fish without its bones as for a life
without trouble. I didn't expect this,
though. If it were anybody but you, lad ;
you that I've snowed from a boy.'

'I — I can't stand this,' said Dino,
huskily.

He got up to his feet and walked away
a few paces. The old man followed him.

■ Lad ! '

He laid his heavy hand upon Dino's
shoulder. ' 'Tis easier to make wounds than
to heal 'em. I don't want to be hard on
you, God knows. I'll give you another
chance, lad. Perhaps you've gone too far
with those scoundrels to break off short i'
this way — without with your leave or by
your leave. Perhaps I was unreasonable
to expect it. For the devil shows a man
plain enough how to get into a mess like
that, but he leaves him to steer his own
way out. You might feel it upon your
honour not to break wi' them without a
word o' warning ; and honour's a delicate

stuff, if you handle it you soil it in the
touching. I've been an old fool ; I ought to
have thought of all that sooner. But I'll give
you another chance, lad. Look here. We'll
let things stay as they are for the present.
I won't keep you from seeing her; and I'll
give you three months' time to free yourself
from all this black business. Perdio! 'tis a
fair offer. Promise me that in three months
you will come and ask me for Italia, and
there's my hand on it. Why, lad, I couldn't
have trusted my little girl to any man but
you.' He spoke in the old cordial voice
again, with a cheery ring in the brave words.

Oh my God,' said Dino, turning away
from him, ' what am I to do to make this
man understand ? '

Andrea's arm fell to his side. He
groaned, and put up his other hand to his

forehead as if he had received a blow. ' It
can't be, lad — I tell you it cant be,' he said
in a broken voice.

A party of holiday-makers came out of
a house at some distance, crossing the
piazza at its farther end. The women
were laughing and chattering as they went
by. A young man called loudly for silence,
and began to play the refrain of a love-song
upon his mandoline. The swift, audacious
tripping of the music came back to them
from a long distance through the stillness
of the night, and then again all was quiet.

Andrea took a quickset forward. He
seized the blazing remnant of the torch
from its hole in the wall, and waved it
suddenly before Dino's eyes. The young
man gave an involuntary start backwards.

Oh, don't be frightened,' said Drea,

with an odd laugh, ' I am only looking at
your face. I feel as if I had never seen it
properly. I want to remember the look of
a man who cares more for the good opinion
of a pack o' lying scoundrels than he cares
for his oldest friends ; a man who could
teach my girl to love him ; who could steal
her heart from her ; who could bear to look
on at all her pretty little ways, and she all
the while not knowing. I'm an old man,
and perhaps I don't understand,' he said,
with bitter simplicity, ' But I have lived
sixty years in this world, and I've been
honest. I never betrayed a trust.'

He let the torch fall on the stones between
them. The light shone full upon his
white hair.

I loved you like my son, Dino. I
would not change places with you to-night.'

As he turned away Dino sprang forward
with some passionate inarticulate ejaculation
of despair. ' Andrea ! — Drea — don't,
don't leave me like this. Drea ! you are
the oldest, the best friend I've ever had ;
you can't believe. — You must be mad not
to see how I love her '

The old man half paused, then shook
his hand with a gesture of unbelief.

■ If it had been anybody but you, lad —
you, that I've snowed from a boy '

He entered the darkened house, shutting
the door behind him.

It had only taken a few minutes ; the
voices of the women were still audible, and
the sound of the mandoline.

LA MORT DANS LAME.

The masses of the downs were gray and
shadowy ; there was only a faint streak of
red in the eastern sky, and the whitened
stones of the piazza had that peculiar look
of stillness which transfigures familiar places
seen at early dawn, when Dino came out
of the house in which he had spent the
night.

The cool sweet air tasted pleasantly to
his feverish lips ; he stood bareheaded fora
moment, drawing in a long deep breath
of freshness before he struck into the path
which was to lead him back to Leghorn.

But early as it was, there was already
some one stirring before him. As he
passed the church a slender figure wrapped
in a dark shawl moved hastily forward from
behind one of the pillars, and a trembling
voice said, ' Dino !'

He started as if he had been shot.

1 Italia! Italia! you there — at this hour!'

He sprang up the steps towards her,
and they met just under the fading wreaths
of yesterday's festival.

They stood there grasping ,both one
another's hands ; it was difficult to say
which face looked the paler and more
agitated.

1 I wanted to speak to you,' she said
presently, without lifting her eyes to his.
1 Sora Catarina told me you would have to
go back to town at daybreak '

Yes ?' he said, after waiting for a moment.


I had something to say to you. Because
I — I was sitting by the window last
night, — it was so hot in there, — and I
heard '

'You heard?'

She drew her hands away from him very
gently.

1 Don't you see, Dino, that I know it
all ? I heard what you and my father said.'

He caught hold of one of her hands
again, and grasped it between both his
own. ' Italia ! — oh, my poor child, my poor
little girl, to think that you should have
heard that ! You know I did not mean to
hurt you, dear. You know, Italia ! you do
know, that I love you.'

A wave of colour passed over her white

cheek. Her eyelids trembled, but she did
not look at him.

1 heard — what you said,' she repeated
in a very low voice.

He pressed her hand more tightly.

« Italia— I '

The utter hopelessness of it all overcame
him ; the impossibility of explaining
anything. His fingers relaxed he turned
away and leaned against one of the rough
stone columns. ' You are quite right.
There is no reason why you should believe
me. But I thought you would,' he
said, with a burst of passionate despair.

A quiver passed over her face as he released
her hands ; she drew them under
her shawl, and stood facing him. It was
a moment of horrible suffering to Dino
before she spoke.

VOL. II. f

'I do believe you. Please do not be
unhappy about that. I cannot understand
it — altogether; but I do believe you — Dino,'
she answered gently. She hesitated a little
in speaking, and her voice faltered over
his name. She added more firmly : ' That
is what I wanted to say to you. Please
do not be unhappy about me. My father
my father wanted you to say that you
would give up other things, things you care
for, for my sake. But I do not wish it. I
only want you to do what is best ; what
will make you more happy.'

Happy!' echoed Dino with a groan.

'Yes, Dino, happy. Happier at least
than you would have been if you — if you
had not found out your mistake in time.
It was a mistake that you loved me best,'
said Italia bravely, crushing her poor little

hands tightly together beneath her shawl ;
but I know it was not your fault. I know
you did not mean to hurt me.'

I would rather — I would rather have
died than hurt you ! Yet I deserve every
word that your father said. I deserve a
thousand times more. I had no right to
speak to you when I did. I must not — I
cannot ask you to marry me, Italia.'

Her head drooped a little. 'I know it,'
she said, almost in a whisper, ' and that is
why I do not want you to blame yourself
for what has happened. If you have promised
things to other people My

father always said that one must keep one's
word.' She turned her face away abruptly.
I am glad that — that I was not mistaken
in everything. I am glad to know that
you did love me.'

More than my life!' said Dino, with a
solemn ardour. She looked so simply-noble
in her sorrow, he could have knelt
before her as before a saint.

She drew in her breath sharply with a
half sob. * That is what I wished to say
to you. Do not be troubled when you
think of me. I shall always trust you. If
if we could have gone on caring for one
another, I should always have been your
friend as well as your sweetheart. At
least — whatever other people claim from
you — there can be no harm in my still
being your friend; perhaps it may make
you glad sometimes to know that there is
one person who trusts you.'

She let her hands fall to her side, and
drew a step farther back with an action
full of the gentlest dignity. 'Will you

go now, Dino ? I would rather that you
went

1 1 will go. Will you not look at me
once more, Italia ?'

She hesitated for a second or two, and
then, slowly, she lifted her large dark eyes.
Her white face above the straight sombre
folds of her mantle made her seem like the
pale ghost of the radiant Italia of yesterday.
His heart gave a great throb of love
and passionate pity.

My poor little girl, how I have hurt
you ! My poor little child ! '

1 Don't be sorry,' she said faintly, her
eyes filling suddenly with tears. She tried
to smile, but her lips only quivered pitifully.
She could not speak : she lifted her arm
and pointed to the stair.

When he looked back she was kneeling

with clasped hands before the image of
the Madonna above the closed church door.

The air was very fresh and cool. The
early morning dew was lying thickly on
the soft powdery dust of the high road,
and on the short crisp turf of the downs.
As Dino reached the turning in the path
the first red light of the rising sun touched
the black belfry above the church, and
glittered here and there on some of the
higher windows in the village. Far below
him, seen between the folding of the
downs, a white mist was lying over the
motionless gray plain of the sea.

Afterwards, he could never remember
very distinctly what he had done with
himself that day. There was nothing to
call him back to Leghorn. There seemed

nothing to call him back anywhere. Until
Valdez should summon him, he was
powerless to act : had he not committed
himself, his life, his future, had he not
delivered it all over, bound hand and foot,
into the inexorable grasp of those men ?
And what did it matter how or when it
was disposed of ?

For the moment, he felt so indifferent
to all that concerned himself that, had
Valdez been there before him, he would
not have asked him a single question.
That he was to forfeit his life in this
proposed attempt was so much a foregone
conclusion he did not even think of it.
He could have sworn that he had never
thought of it once since that first branding
instant of revelation ; but the conviction
of it had eaten its way into him until it

had become a part of his slightest, most
involuntary action. When he spoke of
next year,' * next month,' when he used
the very word ' to-morrow he checked
himself like a man on the verge of betraying
a secret ; it seemed to him so
incredible that he alone, among all the
living, breathing creatures about him,
should stand unobserved, encompassed by
the very shadow of death. When his
mother looked at him suddenly he felt
that she must read his sentence on his
face. At times he was filled with a dull
wonder at their blindness ; it was like
slowly sinking in a quicksand while they
stood near, looking on with smiling eyes.

Scarcely more than a week had passed
since the blow first struck him. He was,
as yet, benumbed, paralyzed by the icy

clasp of the inevitable. He was isolated ;
cut off suddenly from all his past ; the
possibility of revolt had not yet occurred
to him ; the craving for life, mere life, had
not awakened ; all his experiences had
changed at the same moment ; he had
not had time to grow accustomed to the
new conditions, to realise the inextricable
inescapable claims of habit. He was like a
man shipwrecked, and keeping a precarious
footing upon some slippery rock in mid-ocean
; his actions, his preoccupations,
were so many temporary measures. He
was engrossed in the present precisely
because he had no future.

Could he have been asked, that is,
more or less, the account he would have
given of himself. But in truth, he did not
realise the situation. And how could he ?

while the young blood ran easily and
warmly in his veins, and the morning air
tasted freshly, and there was no sense of
physical effort in scaling the steepest crest
of these hills. The very fulness of his
life deceived him. He thought himself
resigned to lose all because he could not —
he was incapable of comprehending the
final loss of anything. For the present,
his youth, his sense of vitality, were lying
dormant, silenced and motionless like that
sleeping sea.

But indeed he was not conscious of
himself this morning. He walked for
hours, steadily, determinedly; stopping at
the top of every hill to look back at the
country beneath him with a blank mechanical
stare. He could never remember
of what he had been thinking, or if he had

been thinking of anything at all. There
was nothing left of this day in his memory
but a confused recollection of wide grassy
spaces where the wind was the only thing
living, and the face of a shepherd to whom
he spoke about midday, and the sight of
many fields planted with vines.

The man's face came back to him, latera
vivid and detached image, like the fragment
of a fever dream. It was after
twelve o'clock when Dino passed him,
sitting on the side of a hill, eating his
dinner of sour black bread, with his sheep
scattered about him, and his dog lying at
his feet. Dino might have passed without
seeing him had it not been for the dog,
who started up, growling. And then, at
sight of the bread, the young man remembered
suddenly that he had not tasted

food that day. The shepherd had merely-lifted
his eyes for a moment, but without
speaking or interrupting his meal. Dino
threw himself on the sun-warmed grass a
few paces farther on ; in the very action of
lying down he realised his fatigue. He
shut his eyes for an instant or two, then
he said with some impatience :

1 Eh, buori homo ! are you accustomed
to so many strangers, then, that you haven't
a single word left to say ? '

There was a perceptible pause, and
then, ' Are you speaking to me, sir ? ' the
man inquired slowly.

Dino laughed.

My good fellow, do you suppose I am
talking to your dog ? He did his best by
barking ; do you think I expected him also
to wish me good morning ? '

The shepherd looked at him reflectively.
It was a strange idea, but then people
who came from a distance often expected
strange things to happen. He turned his
eyes slowly upon the dog ; there was something
reassuringly unchangeable in the
cock of that ear and the accustomed wag of
that stumpy tail.

1 He does not speak. E un cane? he
remarked tranquilly.

1 And so am I, or at least I am a bestial,
which is all very much the same thing, for
not telling you sooner that I am hungry.
I am very hungry. I've eaten nothing all
day. Will you give me a piece of your
bread ? '

He spoke slowly and clearly, and the
familiar words found an immediate response.
The man stooped forward, drew

the long knife out of the leathern sheath
which hung from his waist under the sheepskin
cloak, and placing his loaf of bread
between his feet on the ground before him,
he cut it into two pieces. He handed one
of them to Dino.

The young man looked at him with a
bright smile breaking like light across his
face. ' I can't pay you for it. I have nota
soldo in my pocket.'

The man continued to hold out the
lump of bread.

'Ye said ye was hungry,' he observed
presently, and then, as Dino took the loaf
with a quick ' Thank you,' his countenance
brightened. Here at last was something
intelligible. He watched the disappearance
of the black morsel with a feeling of
sympathy, which was shared in another

degree by the bright-eyed mongrel at his
feet.

When the last crumb was finished he
rose slowly and moved away a few paces
to where a patch of dark furze bushes
made a cool hiding-place for a small
wooden keg of spring water. He brought
the little barrel to Dino under his arm,
and held it for him with both hands, while
the young man took a long drink with his
lips against the bung hole. Then the
shepherd drank also, while his dog fawned
thirstily at his feet.

'What good water. Do you bring it
up here with you ? ' Dino asked.

The other nodded his head affirmatively.
1 It comes from down there. From the
Padrone's well in the courtyard.

1 And who is the Padrone ? ' Dino

questioned lazily. The food and drink
had rested him. He lay on his back on
the warm turf with half shut eyes. A
vague soft wind wandered over the grass,
and caressed his face and hair ; all about
him on the hillside was a small continuous
sound of tinkling bells, and the
steady crop, cropping of the sheep. ' Who
is your Padrone ? ' he repeated in a sleepy
voice.

The man looked at him in a slow puzzled
way. ' Mal ! . . . e il Padrone nostri] he
said after a pause.

He thrust the iron end of his long
shepherd's staff into the ground, and leaned
upon it with both hands. His face was of
the serious Dantesque-Florentine type : a
puritanic face, with pointed beard and long
straight black hair. He kept his hands

spread out flat, resting his weight upon
the palms of them ; the finger-nails showed
like white spots in contrast to the sunburned
skin.

He is very rich, our Padrone,' he added
slowly, after a longer interval. ' He has
one hundred and forty thousand francs of
his own, Puna sulk altera! He stared at
the ground as if he saw the money lying
there in piles : ' Cento quadrants mille Iwe,
Puna stir altera' For fully half an hour
he did not speak again.

Dino lay upon the grass and watched
him. An insane desire, a fantastic whim,
born of no conceivable reason, prompted
him to inform this half-brutalised peasant
of his real object and intentions. He was
seized with a wild craving to explain it all,
to tell the shepherd who he was, what he

VOL. II. G

proposed to do, and how he — he, Dino de'
Rossi, — that young fellow lying on his back
in the sun, that idler in a workman's dress,
without a soldo in his pocket, was in very
truth a messenger of Fate, a condemned
man, the future assassin of a king.

He looked at the silly sheep all about
him, at the peaceful country, at the peasant's
patient and serious face. The grim humour
of the situation filled him with a sort of
desperate inhuman enjoyment. He felt
possessed of a mocking devil. He opened
his lips to speak, and then, quite suddenly,
he rolled over on his face and lay there
motionless for many minutes, with his head
buried in his arms. He was asking himself
if he were going mad.

Presently he rose to his feet. Before
leaving he thrust his hand into the pocket

of his coat and brought out a handful of
cigars.

'Take these, my good fellow. I wish
I had something else to give you. But
if you cut them up with your knife you
can smoke the tobacco in that pipe of
yours.'

The shepherd put out his hand, examined
the gift deliberately, then thrust
it inside his jacket without speaking.

Addio, buori two!

1 Addio ! '

When Dino had got a dozen paces off
the other man moved, and called upon
him to stop.

Well, what is it ? '

1 Grazie, sapete ! ' the shepherd said,
and held up one of the cigars. Dino
waved his hand in recognition.

Addio, signore ! '

l Addio!'

The moment that spot where he had
tasted human companionship was hidden
from him by a folding of the hill, instantly,
the old spell was upon him. But he walked
less quickly now than in the morning ;
the recollection of Drea's words was
farther away; the thought of Italia oppressed
his heart with a sort of physical
pain ; he could feel it ; but the first unbearable
moment of anguish was over,
there was a certain languor of exhaustion
mingling with all his sensations.

About six o'clock he found himself near
the path by which they had crossed the
field on the way to the pilgrimage yesterday.
Some instinct told him that Italia
would not pass that way again. He followed

the track to the edge of the highroad.
There was a plantation of young
grape-vines on the opposite side of the
highway ; he crossed over and lay down
among the long weeds and grass at the
bottom of the dry ditch.

He had not long to wait. Two or
three vehicles passed him, cabs from
Leghorn, and open carts, all crowded
with the returning holiday-makers, and
presently — here they were !

He saw Drea first ; the old man sat in
front beside the driver, his woollen cap
was pulled down over his eyes ; he looked
neither to right nor left. The women
were talking, Lucia holding a large green
umbrella over them as if to shield them
from the dust. Palmira was sitting at
the back, her head resting against Italia's

shoulder. The child said something, and
as they passed Dino saw Italia turn her
dear pale face to answer ; — he saw her
smile.

There was something in the action, in
the mere fact of her smiling, which made
him realise as never before all that her
sweet love might have meant to him.
He saw the detail of the coming years.
Beyond the grief and the shock which he
knew his end would bring to her, he
looked forward ; he saw her going on with
life, growing older, growing happy again, —
a new happiness, in which the old days had
no share. The thought of Italia living
without him ; the vision of long days in
summer when the sky would be as blue
to her and the wind as sweet as in the
past summers which had been theirs ; the

prophetic knowledge of what must be, of
what would be, pressed slowly and heavily
upon him, a horror of great darkness.
Curiously enough, what he regretted most,
what filled him with the most passionate
sense of isolation and loss, were the very
slightest details of life ; the small familiar
interests, the old childish remembrances,
and little customs, and the young companionship
of foolish joyous laughter. It
all seemed so dear, so living to him now.
And he too was so young.

Poor Dino ! He sat there, twisting the
long, tough weeds between his fingers
without even seeing them, until the
sound of approaching voices startled him.
He looked up. There were two men walking
among the vines, examining the fresh
shoots. One was a labourer, the other

a fat Tuscan proprietary, dressed in a
sort of loose gray jacket, like a dressing-gown
; he had a gray cap on his head,
and wore spectacles.

Dino watched him idly for a moment,
the idea passing through his mind that
this was probably the rich Padrone of
the sheep he had left behind him on the
hill-side.

After a while the men moved away,
and then the silence became unbearable.
Dino felt that he ought to be going back
to Leghorn, he felt the claim of Sora
Catarina's anxiety ; but he could not
decide to go back among all those people,
who knew him and who would speak to
him.

He crossed over the field again, and
strolled off to the edge of the down. The

moon was rising above the sea. Presently
it appeared over the edge of the
great grassy slope, white, spent, a visionary
thing. The luminous sky was still
full of a pink glow in the west ; behind
this ghostly visitant it had turned to an
opaque blue. The great shoulder of the
hill made a gray surface of foreground.

Little by little the colour came creeping
back into the grass, the moon grew
metallic in texture, first golden, then of
a coppery red ; the down immediately
beneath it telling in this half light asa
mass of green washed with bronze.
Here and there the deep shadow of a
patch of gorse made a fantastically-shaped
spot of darkness upon the turf. The
quick flight of a whirring insect was distinctly
audible in this still air ; now and

then, from very far off, sounded the cry
of some belated bird.

Over moving water the moon may bean
enchantress, a weaver of potent spells,
but it is on the downs she dominates —
the still mistress of the night, of the lonely
empty country and the lonely empty sky.

Yet Dino noted nothing of the beauty
around him. He was not in despair now,
he was not even suffering; he was worn
out, inert, it was as if the apathy of death
had fallen upon his soul.

CHOOSING.

Four days later the Marchese Gasparo was
on his way to Andrea's boat-house.

There was no brighter appearance in
the street that day than the countenance of
this young soldier as he walked briskly
along, with alert glances, his head well up,
and his mind full of pleasant thoughts, which
every now and then made his handsome
face flush with an unconscious gleam of
interest and amusement. Life was full of
interesting things to Gasparo — and flattering
things as well. Only this morning he
had heard from the Colonel of his regiment

that he had been selected to act as one of
the King's body-guard on the occasion of
the approaching review at Rome. He had
the letter now in his pocket. His mother,
too, had been unexpectedly generous of late
in the matter of supplies ; at the present
moment he had quite a little stock of crisp
bank-notes carefully stowed away in that
inner pocket. Altogether he felt himself
in a brilliant and successful vein of luck.

It seemed almost a pity that so much
confident good-humour should be exposed
to any unwelcome shock or jar, and it was
with a distinct feeling of annoyance that, ashe
turned out of the noisy Via Grande into
the quieter expanse of the. quay, his quick
eyes recognised a familiar figure in the
person of a short, middle-aged man coming
slowly towards him.

They were too near to one another for
any affectation of ignorance to seem possible.
Gasparo looked sharply up and
down the street, then, with a peremptory
nod and a careless greeting of ' Well,
Valdez ! ' attempted to pass on.

Unfortunately the driver of a heavy cart
laden with white blocks of Carrara marble
had also selected that especial moment in
which to cross into one of the narrower
streets. The road was completely blocked
by the unwieldy mass of stone and the four
straining white oxen. The two men would
be forced to wait at the same corner ; Gasparoo
took in the awkwardness of the situation
at a glance.

I hear that you have called three times
at my house for the purpose of seeing me,'
he said ; ' I have no objection to your calling

there, not in the least. That is a matter
for you to settle with my servants who
answer the door. But if you have any hope
of the Contessa Paula taking you back on
my recommendation, why, I may as well tell
you now, my good man, that it was on my
recommendation that you were dismissed.'

So I understood from the signora Contessa
herself,' Pietro Valdez answered
quietly ; ' and that is precisely why I did
myself the honour to call upon you, Marchese
Balbi. It interested me to know
your reasons for what you had done.'

And pray, what leads you to suppose
that I should think of giving you a reason
for whatever I may think fit to do ? ' Gasparoo
demanded, with a short, scornful laugh.

Valdez shrugged his heavy shoulders ;
he seemed to consider that the question

CHOOSING. 95

required no answer. ' The signora Contessa
Paula had engaged me as her music master
at a fixed salary for six months. I gave
her perfect satisfaction. It interests me to
know what arguments you used to secure
my dismissal,' he repeated, with absolute
self-command.

I might, if I had chosen, have told her
that you were an insolent scoundrel. As
it happens, your impertinent republican
theories were quite sufficient. We do not
choose to assist socialists to live ; neither I
nor my friends.'

Valdez bowed gravely. ' That is what
I wished to know. I have only to thank
you, sir, for the information.' Then he
smiled. ' I did not know — I was not aware
that you did me the honour of interesting
yourself in my political convictions.'

Gasparo's look of negligent scorn was
fast passing into an expression of quicker
anger. He contemplated Valdez in silence
for a moment, then he said sharply : ' You
are uncommonly mistaken if you think I
care a rap how you get yourself into the
hands of the police. You're safe to do that
sooner or later. But I do mind about your
leading Dino de Rossi into mischief. You've
got him turned out of one place already
through your infernal publishing nonsense ;
you had better be careful how you do it again.'

Valdez laughed.

I've known Dino de' Rossi since he was
a little chap of ten years old. He's a good
fellow is Dino ; and very loyal to his friends.
Will the signor Marchese excuse my suggesting
that it might be well if all Dino's
friends were equally loyal to him ? '

And what the devil do you mean by
that, sir ? ' said Gasparo, facing around
abruptly and speaking in a fiercely challenging
tone.

This is the direct way to the house of
old Drea, the fisherman, whose daughter is
Dino's sweetheart. I have had the pleasure
of seeing her : she is a very good, modest,
innocent young girl. But there are other
boatmen in Leghorn, signor Marchese ;
men to whom it might matter less in the
end if you took to frequenting their houses
every day.'

1 I Perdio ! if I thought you knew

what you were saying If I considered

you anything but a meddlesome fool, I
would '

He raised his eyes, looking about him
as if in search of some term strong enough

VOL. n. H

to express his meaning, and it so chanced
that his gaze fell upon the rubicund countenance
of our old acquaintance of the Telegraph
Office, the leather merchant, Sor
Giovanni.

The first syllables which the young
Marchese had spoken in an angry tone
had reached that worthy tradesman's ears
as he stood peaceably behind his own counter
; but as his sense of wonder grew great
with what it fed on, he had insensibly
edged nearer and nearer to the scene of
the encounter, until there he stood in his
own doorway, both thumbs thrust into the
band of his leather apron, his fat cheeks
and glassy eyes fairly beaming with gratified
curiosity.

A very little thing .appealed to Gasparoo's
light-hearted sense of the ridiculous.

He burst now into a fit of most
unaffected laughter.

When he recovered himself he had lost
the thread of his discourse.

1 You may be sure of one thing, my
man : the Countess Paula's is not the
only house you have lost by this morning's
work,' he said dryly ; and he
turned on his heel and walked away
whistling.

1 By my blessed patron, San Giovanni !
I should not like to be in your shoes, friend
Pietro,' observed the fat leather merchant
in an awed voice, gazing up the street with
profound respect at the Marchese Gasparo's
receding figure. ' I should not choose to
be in your shoes, not I. I know the
young gentleman, — Livornese born and
Livornese bred. It's no joke, let me tell

you, to get on the wrong side of the account
book with a Balbi.'

'Well, well,' said Valdez, half impatiently
; ' it's only another example of the
surprising contagion of folly. There were
not fools enough in the world this morning
apparently, and I have taken care to add
one more to the number. 'Tis not a hanging
matter ; that's the best one can say for
it. And so good-day to you, Sor Giovanni.'

'Wait a bit, wait a bit, now,' said solid
Sor Giovanni soothingly. ' I just want to
ask you a question or two now about
Dino de Rossi. The Signor Marchese was
speaking about young De Rossi, eh ! eh !
I have sharp ears, friend Pietro, and it
seemed to me that there was talk of our
Dino's falling into doubtful ways. That's
bad, you know — very bad. I had some

thought of offering him a place in my business
once ; he is a good accountant, I am
told, and would hardly expect much of a
salary if one took him in when he was
under a cloud, so to speak. I thought of
it the day he left the Telegraph Office, but
I waited — I waited to make him the offer.
There's many a man has turned up his
nose over the fresh loaf at breakfast-time
who was ready to say his prayers over the
crust at supper. It's all a question of
supply and demand. One sees these
things in the way of business.'

Ay, there's small difficulty in seeing the
duty one owes to oneself in the way of
business,' said Valdez in his quiet way.

E — e — eh, friend Pietro ! che volet ?
Half the world is for sale, and the other
half in pawn ; you know the saying. But

about this Dino, now. He is a friend of
yours ? You could answer for him, eh ?'

I answer for no man, my good Giovanni.
And as for this young De Rossi ;
I have seen him, it is true. I knew his
father ; but ' He shrugged his shoulders
significantly.

1 See there, now ! and I who counted
upon your telling me more about him ; for
I know nothing against the young man
myself, nothing but that he's a little overfond
of the sound of his own voice, and for
that matter he's young, he's young. He's at
the age when every donkey loves his own
bray. I don't know any other harm in him.'

1 Harm in him ? No. There's no
harm in a weathercock if what you want
to know is which way the wind is blowing,'
said Valdez carelessly, and apparently

quite absorbed in arranging the heavy-folds
of his dark circular cloak with the
green lining. In reality his mind was full
of a new plan for hastening their journey
to Pisa. Clearly it would not do for Dino
to show himself too often in his company.

Meanwhile Gasparo was hastening towards
Drea's house, with just that amount
of additional pleasure in the action as
would naturally follow on the sense of successful
opposition to somebody else's will.
As for Dino, — Gasparo saw no necessity
of thinking about Dino. In any case,
Dino could not afford to marry, and even
if he did, — for, in arguing a point in one's
own favour, why not take both sides of the
question ? — even if he did marry, there
were other girls in Leghorn beside this
brown-eyed Italia. ' Little witch! I wonder

if she guesses what she could make me do
when she looks up at me with that innocent
baby face of hers ?' He sauntered
down the steps with an expression of deepening
enjoyment, a glance of expectation.

She was sitting in the old place, by the
corner of the wall. Her sad face brightened
a little as she looked up at the sound of
footsteps and saw the young Marchese
approaching her. She rose instantly, but
she waited for him to speak.

My little Italia ! you look very pale.
What is the matter ? Has anything been
troubling you ?'

I am quite well, sir, thank you. I am
only tired.'

And what has been tiring you, then ?
Too much pilgrimage, eh ? Too many
prayers in a cold church ; is that not so ? '

He looked at her more closely.

1 You are quite sure the father has not
been scolding you ? '

Oh no, sir, my father never scolds me.'

1 Because I have brought something
with me to restore good humour to a dozen
angry fathers. See here, little one,' — it
seemed at first sight a curious name to
apply to that tall, slender girl with the sad
eyes, but there was something childlike
and unconscious about Italia's beauty which
suggested the use of caressing diminutives
— ' see ! '

He drew a small fancifully-embroidered
case out of an inner pocket and opened
it before her. Inside were five crisp
pink bank - notes of a hundred francs
each.

1 There, Italia mia ! You can tell your

father that is what my father meant to give
him, — and the other two hundred francs
are for interest. Tell him he has not lost
by waiting.'

1 Signor Marchese ! '

It was pretty to see how the colour
flushed all over her face and throat, to the
very border of her scarlet handkerchief.
My father will be so happy, — and so
proud she said shyly. She did not dare
to touch the little portfolio until he tossed
it gaily into her apron, and then she turned
it over with a childish pleasure in the bright
colours and gilt thread of the embroidery ;
it impressed her more than any amount of
money.

I wonder what father will do with it ?
He will not know what to do. We were
never rich before,' she said at last, looking

up at the young man who stood before her
with grateful shining eyes.

Gasparo was watching her intently.
His own face flushed and softened as their
glances met. He tossed back his head
with an air of bright decision.

Should you like more money, — a great
deal of money, which would be all yours to
spend as you please. Should you like to
be rich, Italia mia f

1 Oh no,' said the girl quickly. And
then she laughed. ' I should not know
what to do. My father always says it is
not enough to have money, one must have
brains to spend it. And I should be
miserable. I should be like one of those
ragged little sparrows over there if you
put it in a fine gold cage. I should always
be wanting to get back to the old ways.

I think even the smallest bird must enjoy
its wings.

1 But suppose some one was with you
in the cage ? Some one who was very
good to you and looked after you ? Do
you think you would not like it better
then ? ' he asked in the gentlest voice.
And then, as she did not answer immediately
: ' Listen, my Italia. I have heard
some foolish story of your betrothal to
that young De Rossi, — to Dino, but it is
not true ; is it ? You are not process ;
your father told me so only the other
day.'

He moved a little nearer, so that his
handsome glowing face was very close to
hers. He was very much in earnest now ;
inclination and the sense of opposition
were firing the old rebellious Balbi blood ;

with that air of tender deference tempering
the bright audacity of his presence, he
looked the very incarnation of persuasive
joy ; the divine glamour of success was
like an atmosphere about him ; he carried
himself with the compelling confidence of
a young god ; — it was Bacchus wooing
Ariadne beside the rippling sea. ' My
Italia, you are not betrothed ? ' he repeated
softly.

Her face had turned very pale : her lips
quivered.

No.'

Ah,' said Gasparo, drawing in his
breath quickly.

Her thick dark hair was loosely twisted
into a heavy knot ; and pinned back just
above the nape of her neck. One long
waving lock had escaped from its fastening,

and lay across her shoulder. The
young man looked at it, and then just
lifted it with the tip of a finger.

One of my ancestors married an Infanta
of Spain. But I am Gasparo Balbi ; I
can do what I choose, and nothing can
alter that. A Balbi does as he pleases.'
He put his hand against her cheek and
turned the averted face towards his own,
very gently. ' Look at me, Italia. Don't
you know that you can make me commit
any sort of folly when you look at me with
those big eyes of yours ? My little Italia,
next week I shall have to go away, back
to Rome. But I care too much for you,
very much too much, — to leave you as I
found you, you little sorceress! Now
listen. Before I go I want you to promise
me that some day you will marry me.

CHOOSING. Ill

Do you hear, Italia? I want you to say
that some day, very soon, you will be my
wife.'

1 Oh, no — no ! ' she said, in a frightened
whisper, keeping her eyes fixed upon him
and starting back.

'But I say — yes ! ' repeated Gasparo
smiling. Now that the die was cast, he
could scarcely understand how he had
hesitated ; she was so simple, so sweet, so
well worth the winning — in any fashion —
this brown-eyed daughter of the people.

He would have taken her hand, but
she drew back and stood against the old
stone buttress of the bridge. Her face
had grown grave with the expression it
wore when she was singing. She shrank
back, her two little sunburnt hands hanging
down and clasped tightly before her.

Signor Marchese '

She hesitated for an instant, and her
eyelids dropped. ' It is — it is very good
of you to take so much trouble about
me. But what you say is quite impossible.
I could never marry you, never. I am
not a lady, and I don't want to be rich or
or — anything.'

Then the colour rushed back to her
cheeks, and she lifted her head and looked
at him full in the face.

You have been very good to my father,
and to me, sir. And I knew you when
we were all children, so you will forgive
me if I take a liberty. I never should
care for you, sir : I love Dino. We are
not betrothed ' — her eyes filled with tears,
' he can never marry me ; and he and my
father have quarrelled. Perhaps I shall

never see my Dino again. But I do love
him, — dearly,' she said, with a half sob.

When Gasparo had gone the sobs came
fast and faster. Life had suddenly grown
full of confusing pain ; it was bewildering.
And Dino seemed so far off. She knelt
before her bed, in the little inner chamber,
and pressed her hands hard before her face
in the effort to recall the very sound of
his voice when he spoke to her. She tried
to feel again the warm strong pressure of
his hand upon hers. And she loved him
so ! she loved him so ! the poor child repeated
to herself over and over. How
could he bear to leave her ? how could he
let anything come between his love and
her?

But after a while the sobs grew quieter :
she still knelt, gazing straight before her

VOL. II. I

with an expression of sweet and ardent
belief upon her tear-stained face. The
words he had spoken at the church door
had come back to her. 'You know I never
meant to hurt you, dear. Italia, you do
know that I love you! She said them over
in a whisper, like a prayer, looking up at
the little picture of the Madonna above her
bed. No other words would come, but
surely our pitiful Lady of Sorrows would
hear and understand.

She was not altogether to be pitied,
this grief-stricken Italia. For to her, at
least, in time, could come that great reward,
the sense of having lived a faithful life ;
in which the first indeed could be the last ;
a life wherein no loved thing has been forgotten,
and memory and belief are alike
sacred.

When Drea came home from his morning's
work he found everything in order.
His dinner was ready for him beside the
fire. He ate it in silence ; seeming to take
very little notice of his daughter's white
cheeks and heavy-lidded eyes. But as he
sat smoking his pipe after dinner, he put out
his rough hard hand as she passed by in
front of him, and drew her down gently
upon his knee.

1 Don't fret, my little girl ; don't fret
now,' he said tenderly, and stroked her
ruffled hair.

Then he added cheerfully. ' Come
now ! you said the young Padrone was
going to make me a present. Let us
hear about it. Good Lord, it must
be a matter of twenty years since anyone
has thought of making me a present.

— And I'll tell you what, my girl.
It's full moon to-night. If you like, I will
take you out in the boat with me, when I
go to look after the nets. And so courage,
my little one, courage ! Lord bless you !
it's only in a storm one can find out
who's a good sailor. And so cheer up
for — what's an old father good for if
it isn't to keep those pretty eyes from
getting red with crying ? And the good
God lets a man do, but He doesn't let him
overdo. He's no fool, is Dino. We're
not at the end of the matter yet.'

ON THE BUOY.

There was no difficulty in arranging for
that journey to Pisa. As soon as it was
settled that they were to go by water, to
row themselves the fifteen miles of the old
disused canal, Dino volunteered to have
the skiff in readiness at a moment's notice.
1 1 want to be away from here. The sooner
we start, the sooner it's all over, the better
pleased I shall be,' the young man insisted
impatiently.

Ever since his return from Monte Nero
he had done nothing but urge upon Valdez
the necessity of some immediate action ; if

it were only to go on this trip to the next
town to secure the purchase of the revolver,
at least that would be something accomplished.
A curious restless gloom had
fallen upon Dino's open countenance. It
was as if he could never quite free himself
from the scathing bitterness of old Andrea's
reproaches. He longed for action, definite
action, however distasteful. Each slow
bright day which passed seemed a long
space of painful suspense until he stood
cleared in the old fisherman's eyes. ' He
may think me a madman if he pleases. He
can never think of me again as a coward,'
the young man told himself bitterly. Valdezz
could understand nothing of this sudden
change in him.

'You puzzle me, lad — and you lack
patience.'

1 Patience!' repeated Dino, ' and what for
pray ? I have read in some book that it is
faith, and not prudence, which has power to
move mountains. What does anything
else matter so long as we have the faith?'

Valdez looked at him very gravely.

1 You are sneering, my Dino. And I
find that, as a rule, people who distrust or
deny their own emotions are justified by
many of their subsequent actions in the
lack of faith. Don't do it, boy. Not to
believe in others,' — the old republican's
eye flashed, — ' not to trust in others, is to
reduce life to a mean habit,' he said.

They were sitting in Dino's own room,
and the young man's gaze wandered restlessly
over the walls ; it seemed as if he
were trying to learn by heart the position
of each small familiar object.

'Why, it is like a bit of the old days
back again, Valdez, to hear you lecture one !'

cay, lad.'

The elder man was following out his
own train of thought. l Perhaps I ought
not to be so much surprised at the way it
is taking hold of you. Until one is two or
three and twenty one thinks of oneself :
after that one is preoccupied with life, its
combinations and its issues. And life is
the bigger thing of the two.'

He stood up and laid his sensitive, long-fingered,
musician's hand upon Dino's
shoulder. ' Then that is settled. Bring
the boat around to-night ; and we start
early in the morning he said slowly. He
looked hard into Dino's face, and his lips
worked as if on the point of adding something.
But whatever it was the words remained

unspoken. He turned away, and
a moment later Dino heard him wishing
Sora Catarina a grave ' Burn giorno /' ashe
passed through the outer room.

Later in the day Dino had spoken to his
mother about his intention of absenting
himself for an expedition of two or three
days to Pisa. To his surprise Sora Catarina
made not the least objection.

He postponed telling her until the last
possible moment, acting in this on the
opinion he had once heard Drea express
about an angry woman's scolding. ' When
a woman's got a tongue in her head, the
wise man never speaks to her until he's
putting his hat on ; for it's no matter how
hard the wind blows so long as it blows
from astern.' But Catarina had not justified
this prevision.

It was easy to see that she had something
on her mind from the anxious glances
which she kept casting in her son's direction,
but it was not until he was just at the
door and ready to start that she laid down
her knitting resolutely, and said :

1 My Dino, do you think your mother
has gone blind ? If you won't speak, I
must. But things were different once.
When you were a little lad, — it doesn't
seem so long ago to me as to you, my
boy, — you didn't wait for me to call you
when you had hurt yourself. You were
quick enough in coming to your mother
when anything was paining you then. And
a woman loses enough in seeing her children
grow too big for her arms to hold 'em ;
there's no need of their hearts outgrowing
her as well.'

She spoke in a plaintive tone, her voice
growing more and more complaining as she
went on with her remonstrance ; and as she
ended she shut her lips tightly and took up
her knitting again with an injured expression.
' Whatever you may choose to say,
Dino, your mother is not blind.'

Nay, mother, that is the last thing I
should think of saying. But what is it
now ? You must not take fancies in your
head about me, mother. I've not been
complaining of anything, you know.'

1 Oh, if it's a fancy in my head of course
that's the end of it ! I've nothing more to
say ; if it's a fancy that it's more than a
week now since I've seen you sit down to
eat your dinner like a Christian, as if you
knew whether the dish before you were
boiled beef or a boiled bone. And perhaps

it's my fancy, too, those black rings under
your eyes, and the new trick you've
learnt of sighing ! ' She threw her knitting
down upon the table, and crossed the
room to where Dino was standing.

1 My own boy, do you think I can't see
that you are breaking your heart about
that little girl, that Italia? And it's of no
use, my Dino : believe your old mother in
this. Her head is turned ; she won't have
a word more to say to you. There's no
harm in the girl, but her head is turned.'

She hesitated for a moment, watching
him anxiously. ' Dino ! you know if I care
for my other boy, my young master, that
I nursed and looked after till I hardly
could tell which I was fondest of, him or
you. But, my Dino, he goes too often to
Andrea's, does Gasparo. And that girl

takes after her mother — a poor washy,
big-eyed thing, who never knew if her
soul was her own to pray for until she'd
asked her husband. And the girl takes
after her mother

'You said once you would not speak
hardly of Italia again, mother.'

'I said once — I said once! Santa
pazienza ! it would be a fine task to
remember the things one has said once.
And besides, I'm saying nothing against
her ; the Lord keep me from it. Girls !
I've been a girl myself. And you know
our Leghorn saying — when you want to
marry a girl off 'tis easy work doing it ;
with four rags and four tags you can send
the devil from one house into another.
But, my Dino, listen.' She laid her hand
rather timidly on the cuff of his coat

sleeve ; what she was going to say would
displease him, and she wanted to propitiate
him — not to seem as if she too
were concerned in his disappointment.
1 My Dino, at Monte Nero, we were
speaking, between us women, of the young
Marchese. And Lucia said she wondered
if he would be thinking of marrying soon ;
she's like all other old maids is Lucia ; she
can't see a man in the next street without
wondering what he thinks about marriage.
And Italia looked up ; you know that
innocent sort o' way of hers ; and " Oh
no," she says, " Sora Lucia. Oh no," she
says. " The Marchese Gasparo is not in
love with any of those fine ladies he
knows. He told me so, only yesterday,"
says she. And then I just looked at her.
And pray how did he come to be speaking

to you about anything of the kind ? "
I asked her. And perhaps I spoke a little
sharp, for she turned very red, and then
she looked at me with her big eyes without
speaking, as if I was a painted image
of one of the blessed saints. And then
she said, " He told me because he was
speaking of what his mother wished him
to do." His mother! That would be the
Signora Marchesa. And it's a proper
thing surely that a little chit like that
should know more about my old mistress
than I do. Yes. "He was speaking of
what his mother wished him to do." His
mother indeed ! not even the Signora
Patron, or the Signora Marchesa, but
his mother ! " — that is what she said.'

Dino remained silent.

'Ah,' Catarina went on, merging her

particular grievance in that general sense
of relief to be found in indiscriminate complaint,
' ah, it's small wonder perhaps that
the young master has never been near his
old nurse, or given me so much as a
"good morning," since the day he came
back to Leghorn. And so fond of his old
Catarina as he used to be ! I remember
him when he had the fever ; not a spoonful
of medicine would he touch if Catarina
was not there to give it to him. But
things change in this world, they do ; ita
pity, while they're about it, they don't
sometimes change for the better. There'd
be more change i' that"

Dino smiled faintly. 'Well, well,
mother! there's no good fretting over
what can't be helped. Don't worry yourself,
that's the most important.'

Ah, don't worry ! that's a man's way allover.
As if one sent out to the market
to buy trouble, for fear of not having
enough at home ! But it's easy work
telling your mother not to worry, Dino,
when she sees you going about with such
a look on your face.'

1 Nay, mother, suppose we let my face
take care of itself.' He mastered his impatience
with an effort, and added, ' If
you would only believe me you would not
make yourself so unhappy. Italia and I
understand one another perfectly

1 Well, if that's what you and she call a
perfect understanding, 'tis a pity you don't
try mistaking one another for a little. It
might make you both look a bit happier.
It was more like a funeral, coming home
the other day, than anything else that /

VOL. II. k

could give a name to. Not that I'm ever
i' the right.'

Sora Catarina ended with a stifled sob.
She had known from the beginning that no
good could come of speaking of this matter
to Dino. He was like his father ; he might
act from impulse, but he would never
change his purpose for any one's asking.
And now that she had spoken, it all happened
precisely as she expected. She
went on crying quietly, with a feeling of
having only succeeded in verifying her own
lack of influence.

But Dino was more deeply affected
than appeared on the surface. Like a
great many over - sensitive people, who
dread and foresee pain, he often denied its
very existence ; but the pain remained.
The idea of Gasparo's growing intimacy

ON THE BUOY. 131

with Italia haunted him like an impending
sense of evil. A wild plan of warning old
Drea, of insisting upon seeing and speaking
to him, began to assume more and
more of the character of a resolve in the
young man's mind. But if he went there
to-night Italia would be at home ; he could
not expose himself to be insulted before
Italia ; and tomorrow he was going away.
There was no use in writing, Drea could
only read his own name.

Dino's mind was full of these considerations
as he walked down to the Old Port.
It was a foggy night, the full moon just
rising over the hill-tops shone through a
thick white veil ; but his plan was only to
secure the boat to-night, and row it across
the Port to the mouth of the canal. He
would leave it moored there for the night ;

and he knew every inch of the harbour,
the fog could make no difference.

It made this difference, that, coming out
into the air again from the small stove-heated
room where he had been sitting
longer than he expected, engaged in bargaining
with the owner of the boat, the
singular beauty of the night came upon
Dino like a revelation.

It was an absolutely white night ; the
fog hung low above the water. Overhead
the full moon shone in a clear blue
transparent sky. From the land the
harbour looked enshrouded in a clinging
cloud ; but to any one on the level of the
water the fog appeared as a resplendent
and glorified vision, a lower heaven of
luminous vapour, under which the dark oily-looking
sea lay motionless, like a thing

asleep. Twenty paces off the largest ship
in port only loomed indistinctly, the merest
ghost of a vessel, dim, shadowy, unsubstantial
; the red and green lights in the
rigging were indistinguishable a dozen
yards away. They sprang suddenly into
visible existence, piercing the whiteness like
living jewels, as the boat neared the shipside.
The air was strangely sonorous ; the
faintest sounds — the laugh of a sailor in the
forecastle, or the distant thud of an oar —
were exaggerated out of all natural proportion.
It was impossible to judge of distances
; everything was white, shining,
impalpable. On the darkest night there
would have been at least some gleam of a
signal lantern to steer by ; but this was like
being lost on enchanted seas of light.

Una note strata ; a white night is a

witch's night,' said the sailor lad who came
down to the steps at the landing to bring
Dino the oars for his boat. 'Keep your
eyes open, comrade, or you'll be running
into something before you've time to
sing out an Ave!

'Ay, ay,' answered Dino cheerfully,
stepping into his skiff and pushing her off
from shore.

He paddled gently along ; the soft moist
air was pleasant upon his heated face, and
there was no reason for hastening ; until
tomorrow there was nothing more to be
done. The strange appearance of the night
was so alluring he felt tempted to make a
wider circuit before fastening up his boat.
He turned the prow in the direction of the
outer sea-wall, away from the shipping, just
dipping his oars into the water with a
scarcely conscious motion.

He was rowing in the direction of a
certain large red buoy, upon whose broad
surface he and Italia had often played as
children, when to be left there by Drea
while the old fisherman went to look after
his nets was to be left in possession of a
wonderful floating island, a country which
no one else claimed, and where the little
playmates reigned supreme.

The place was so much associated with
the thought of her that, as he drew nearer,
it was scarcely strange to Dino to hear what
seemed a far-off echo of Italia's singing; he
listened to the full contralto notes as if ina
dream. It was all a part of the white
magic of the night.

His boat moved noiselessly forward ;
the round outline of the buoy rose close
before him. The sound of the low singing

had stopped ; but was there not something
darker, the outline of a seated figure, upon
that floating surface ?

He looked hard, standing up in his boat,
and of a sudden all the dreamy mystery of
enchantment vanished. This was no dream,
no phantom ; it was Italia herself — Italia!
his Italia, whom he loved. The quick
blood tingled to his finger-tips. He called
to her, and fastened his boat alongside, and
sprang upon the buoy ; it was all the work
of an instant.

Italia !' he said, ' Italia ! Italia !'
She gave a little cry, and started to her
feet, and looked at him. She stretched out
her hands ; her heart beat in wild irregular
throbs ; a contraction passed over her face ;
she did not know herself if she were laughing
or crying.

He made some inarticulate exclamation
and knelt suddenly at her feet. Her silken
handkerchief had fallen to the ground, it
had been warm about her throat ; he
covered the handkerchief with kisses.

Then he looked up at her as she stood
above him steadying herself with one hand
upon his shoulder. He held out his arms,
and she bent her head without speaking,
and their mouths met in a kiss.

The movement had given a sudden impulse
to their floating pedestal ; it swung
violently for one instant from side to side,
then the oscillations grew less rapid. The
white radiance of the night seemed to close
more heavily in about them. There was
no sound or motion but in the quiet lapping
of the waves.

BELIEVING.

Italia spoke first.

I knew you would come back to me.'

Darling ! '

He kept his arm about her, and she
nestled close against him, her soft cheek
pressed against the rough woollen of his
pilot coat.

I knew you would come back, my
Dino. For I love you so. And the
blessed Madonna is so very good. I
prayed to her. I knew you would come
back to me.'

She lay quite still for a moment ; all

her weight resting against his shoulder.
Then she moved uneasily. ' You are
sure it is you, Dino ? Really you ? It
is not a dream ? '

1 No, dear.'

He bent his head and covered her hair
with softest kisses. 'It is no dream, my
Italia. It is like being in Heaven.'

Yes.'

She sighed with perfect content.

But presently she moved a little away
from him and turned, leaning both hands
upon his breast. ' Dino, it was quite true,
all that I told you, up there, at the church,
the other morning. That dreadful morning
! Dino, when you went away I felt as
if my heart were dead.'

1 My poor little Italia!'

1 She is a very happy little Italia now.

But, Dino, I did mean it then. If you
had been obliged not to give up all those
things that father does not like — that club,
you know, and those bad men — I would
have tried to bear it, Dino. I knew you
loved me all the same. And it did not
matter so much what any one else thought
of you. / believed you — always. For
you do love me, Dino ? '

He pressed his lips to her hair again
without speaking.

Dino ! say you do ! '

I do love you, my Italia. I do love
you. God knows how much.'

Dear Dino. I thought you knew that
I could always be like a friend to you, like
your little sister, whatever happened. But
ah, this is better! I am so happy, Dino.
And it is such a beautiful world ; it seemed

so hard to think that we were always to
be hurt in it, always apart and miserable ;
and the happiness all about us, only we
shut out from it, you and I.'

She raised her head. ' Do you know,
dear, I could not imagine how you would
come back to me? No! don't tell me,
you can tell me some other time; tomorrow
perhaps ; now, I don't want to
know. But I imagined — I don't know
why, it was very foolish — I imagined there
would have to be all sorts of talking, explanations
first. It is so wonderful, Dino,
happiness is always so much — so much —
what shall I say ? so much happier that
one can possibly foresee it. I never
thought of — this. And yet it was so
simple.' She had slipped one of her little
hands in his, and was pressing his fingers

tightly over hers with her other hand, with
the contented air of a happy child. i But,
do you know, you frightened me when you
first called out, my Dino ? '

'Did I frighten you, Italia?'

She lifted her head quickly, letting his
hand fall. The suppressed tone of his
voice had pierced her heart with its suggestion
of untold suffering.

Dino ! '

She held her face close to his, trying to
look into his averted eyes. ' Dino, you are
unhappy about something? Is it — Oh!'
she shrank suddenly away from him and
her face grew rigid and her lips trembled.
Is it — my Dino, forgive me for saying such
a thing ! — is it that there has been some
mistake — again ? Is it that — that — oh,
Dino ! that you did — not — mean — this f '

The miserable words dropped out
slowly, one by one.

Whatever punishment he merited by
his lack of generous self-control he tasted
in its full bitterness in that hour. After
what seemed a long long interval of crushing
condemning silence she got up very
quietly. Dino rose to his feet at the same
moment. As the buoy rocked he would
have put out his hand to steady her, but
the wild look of anguish on her dear face
held him motionless. He did not dare to
touch her. He covered his eyes with his
hands.

Presently she said, ' We cared for each
other even when we were little children.
Perhaps that is why it seems so — strange,
that you could do this to me.'

Her voice began to tremble. Her

fingers turned cold ; she held them clasped
tightly together. So many images, so
many memories out of the past, rushed
back in one confusing flood upon her ; she
could find no words, no relief, from pain.
All the bewilderment and the misery
uttered themselves together in an appeal
for help :

Speak to me, Dino ! '

Then he uncovered his face and spoke.

Italia, before God ! until I met you
here to-night, by chance, I never thought to
take you in my arms on this side Heaven.
I cannot tell you what this thing is which
has come between us. Your father
chooses to believe that it is because I ama
republican, because I hold opinions which
he thinks mad and wicked, that I will not
promise to give up all else and — marry

you. He thinks that I have deceived you
that I have acted basely. Italia' — he
lifted up his eyes and looked at her — ' I
cannot tell you what it is which separates
us. I cannot. Only — it would be better
for you if you had never seen me. I wish
to God that you had never seen me. I
must go away very soon, away from Leghorn
and the people I have known all my
life. And I go away remembering that I
have ruined your happiness. Yet I loved
you, Italia. I loved you better than my
own soul.'

There was a moment's silence ; then
she spoke very quietly :

1 Dino. My father remembers when
they threw an Orsini bomb at the procession
carrying the blessed sacraments
out of the cathedral. He saw a priest

VOL. II. L

killed, and some women and children.
And it was the republicans who did it.
My father saw it. He saw it done.'

'Dear Italia,' said Dino sadly, 'surely
you do not think that I approve of such
an act ? There are bad men in every
place ; men who hide their own selfishness
and folly under every high ideal, and bring
it to discredit. They are like the moths
who feed on the coverings of the holy
vessels on the altar. Whatever I do with
myself it shall not be for my own gain.'

His voice changed a little, and he
added, ' But perhaps you will not believe
that of me ? perhaps you will never believe
any good of me again ? '

She seemed scarcely to understand
what it was he said.

Dino ! '

She stretched out both hands with a
sob. It was like the cry of a frightened
child for mercy. ' Dino, take me back,
take me with you. I must be with you.
It doesn't matter about all the rest.'

She threw herself into his arms, pressing
her cheek against his, clasping his hands
closer about her neck ; speaking in short
hurried sentences, her soft voice broken
with sobs.

1 Dino — it could not be again, you
know. The dear Madonna would not let
you go away from me again. Because,
you know, my Dino, I could not bear it.
I could not. And no one is expected todo
what is impossible. It isn't that I'm
not willing, Dino. I would do anything
you told me to, anything. But if you
asked me to lift a weight that was too

heavy for me, I might want to do it, but I
could not do it, could I ? I should not be
strong enough. And I am not strong
enough for this — I am not strong enough.'

She kept her face buried on his arm as
if she were trying to hide away from what
she dreaded. ' Dino. It is such a happy
world, dear. I could be so happy. See !
even if you had to give up something,
some ideas that you care for. My father
says all young men have ideas about —
about politics and all that — which they
change as they get older. And even if
you do not change. What does it matter?
what does any of the rest of it matter ?
Dino V

He had his arm about her ; he could
feel her shaking from head to foot with
heavy passionate sobs.

1 Italia,' he said, ' stop crying. My
dear. My poor, poor little child. I can't
stand this. Right or wrong, I cannot
stand it. It is too much to ask of me.

Valdez may do what he pleases, I '

He bent his head and pressed his lips
fervently upon her warm loosened hair.
Italia, I had promised. I had sworn todo
something. But I break my oath.
Look ! I give it all up — for your sake.
Look at me, Italia. They will call me a
traitor; but I shall not have betrayed you.'

Poor little Italia ! She was very weary.
She could not speak for many minutes
the choking sobs would force themselves
out despite all her efforts to conquer them.
She let herself rest passively in his arms,
while he called her by every tender name
he could devise. But presently the tears

were fewer ; she checked herself ; she
lifted up her head and looked at him ; her
eyes were full of love, but the 
in them meant even more than that ;
they were shining with the enthusiasm of
high resolve.

Forgive me, my Dino. I ought to be
stronger — I meant to be stronger. I
meant to help you, not to make hard
things harder for you to bear. Forgive
me. I will not do it any more.' She
drew herself gently away from him, and he
made no effort to detain her. Her voice
grew steadier as she went on speaking.
You could not do that. You could not
be a traitor. Not even for us to be happy
together. And it would not be happiness,
Dino ; there would always be a black cloud
between us and happiness. It is not as if

we did not know the difference between
faith and falsehood, Dino. We do know.'

I will not, so help me, God ! I will
not be false to you,' he said roughly.

My Dino.'

'Italia, why cheat ourselves with words ?
what is faith or falsehood ? what does it
all matter if faith means leaving you, and
falsehood your making my life a heaven ?
I love you : the rest is nothing. As for
duty — who knows what is duty ? Your
father thinks it is my duty to stay with
you. And another man bids me go. Why
should I go ? I promised ; but is telling
you that I loved you no promise ? does it
imply nothing ? Do you tell me to go
when I love you ? '

'Yes, Dino,' said Italia simply; 'because
you love me.'

She took his clenched hand in both of
hers, and smoothed out the fingers with a
great tenderness.

1 Dear, I am not clever like you ; I
don't understand things. But I believe
you. Dino, if it were for another man,
and not for yourself, that you had to decide
this thing '

He drew away his hand, and looked
away from her across the rippling sea.
The breeze was freshening a little ; there
were long rents of darkness overhead
where the fog was breaking, and showing
the blue of the sky.

'Dino,' the persuasive voice went on,
1 you might deceive yourself, not knowing,
but you would not deceive me — your old
playmate — your little sweetheart, who trusts
you — trusts you against all the world.

Dino, tell me. Have you the right to
break this promise ? '

1 No,' he said in a half whisper. Then
he added, ' But I would, if you told me
to.'

Yes, Dino. But you would not do it
now.'

There was a long silence between them,
then he asked abruptly :

'Will your father come back here to
fetch you ? '

'Yes, dear.'

She had been sitting quite still, watching
with saddest eyes the dimpling motion
of the water. But his speaking seemed to
recall her to herself; she sighed heavily,
and stooping, picked up her fallen handkerchief,
and knotted it about her throat.
Then she pushed her loosened hair back

from her temples, smoothing it down with
the palms of both hands in a way which
was familiar to her : he had watched her
do it a hundred times before. She looked
up at him, and their eyes met in a long
solemn gaze of unspeakable pity and love.

After a moment he took her hand in
his very gently and raised it to his lips.

My good, good little Italia.'

They sat in silence, like two children,
holding each other's hands.

After what seemed a long time there
was the sound of oars in the distance, and
then the shadowy outline of Drea's boat.
Dino drew her gently to him. 'It is goodbye,
child, God keep you,' he said huskily.
Their lips met in a kiss which held the
very passion of loss.

In another moment he had stepped
from the buoy into his own boat. He
went to meet Andrea.

1 1 have been with Italia. If you like I
will listen to anything you have to say tome.
But not here. I will follow you to
your house,' he said.

He followed at a little distance across
the tranquil bay.

A LAST CHANCE.

Drea did not speak until they stood all
three in the shelter of the familiar low-ceiling
room. Then he said, ' I should
like to be alone with Dino.'

He waited until Italia had closed the
door of the inner chamber behind her. He
waited, standing in the firelight, his powerful
knotted hands hanging loosely beside
him ; his gray head bowed upon his breast.
All the fire had gone out of the old man ;
he looked broken-down.

Presently he spoke.

I did not expect to see you here

again, but perhaps it's as well — it's as
well.'

He stopped, and fumbled in his pocket
for his old pipe. He lighted it automatically,
and there was something in the
action which seemed to make him feel more
like himself.

1 I've been troubled, lad ; sore troubled,'
he said, not looking at Dino, but staring
straight before him at the blazing wood
upon the hearth. ' Sore troubled. It's like
a storm out of a clear sky. First you, lad ;
first you, and then the young master. I
counted upon you to help me take care of
the little girl, Dino.'

He spoke with long pauses between
his words.

Your father was my friend once, an' I
trusted him, an' he betrayed me. I never

told you before ; it didn't seem fair-like ;
but he betrayed me. He thought to take
everything for himself. But you can't get
happiness i' this world without doing something
for it ; it isn't enough to be willing to
rob others. There's no cheap way o' cheating
Heaven, lad ; a man can't buy Heaven
at half-price.'

He sat still for a few minutes breathing
heavily. Then he rose, and, taking up the
candle, he crossed the room, and unlocked
the door of a small cupboard, in which
Dino had always known him to keep his
few valuables ; his certificate from the
captain of the shipwrecked steamer ; his
dead wife's silver - mounted rosary, and
whatever money he happened to possess.
He returned holding in his hand
the embroidered portfolio full of banknotes

which Gasparo had left with
Italia.

Some o' it has to be taken back to the
young master. But there's three hundred
francs in there, lad, o' my very own. I
earned it fairly ; and the old master always
meant it to be mine. Three hundred francs !
It's a deal o' money that. I don't know as
I ever saw so much money together before.'

He smoothed the folded notes with eager
trembling fingers.

1 It's all yours, lad ; all of it. Take it
and pay off these men as have got the
hold on you. It's a deal o' money that —
three hundred francs. More than a man
could put by in five years' saving. I never
could save nothing myself. They'd do
many things for that, they would. You
can pay 'em off easy.'

And then, as Dino made not the smallest
movement to grasp the proffered money,
1 Here, take it, boy,' he repeated, trying to
thrust the little roll of notes into the young
man's clenched hand. ' Take it ; it'll be
more than made up to me if you are good
to my little girl.'

It was impossible to make him understand
that the money could make no difference.


It's three hundred lire, that's what it is.
Three hundred lire,' he said doggedly ;
'and I earned it, fair, that night o' the
wreck. I never thought then it would have
to go to pay off rascals ; but I'd do more
than that, I would, to please the little girl. '

But at last Dino's persistent refusal
roused the old man to something more like
anger. ' If you won't, you won't. It 'ud

have been more above-board to have said
it from the beginning. — If you must drown
yourself, at least drown yourself i' the deep
sea. That's my way o' thinking. — You
could talk there all night ; it's easy work
talking. Colla lingua in bocca si va a Roma
a man can get as far as Rome if he hasa
tongue in his mouth. But it proves
nothing ; it proves nothing.'

He pushed the bank-notes across the
table, flattening them out under his strong
fist. ' There 'tis. And now take it or
leave it, for there 'tis before you. You can
choose.'

Dino rose and reached his hat. ' There
are many things you will understand better
later on, Sor Drea,' he said simply. Then
he looked all about the room. ' I'll not see
this again. And I've been very happy

VOL. II. M

CHAP.

here. If ever the time should come when
you think you judged me harshly, you'll be
glad to remember that, perhaps, — that I
thanked you and wished you well at the
very last.'

And then as the old man still sat
silent, with bowed head, 'Will you shake
hands with me before I go, Sor Drea ? '
Dino said, coming nearer. He looked
very noble at that moment standing therewith
the firelight shining full upon his
young resolute face.

But Andrea never lifted up his eyes.

The devil teaches a man how to do
things but not how to hide 'em. I thought
you was an honest lad at one time, Dino, —
I did he said bitterly; and let him go
without another word.

Drea sat there for a long time after he

heard that closing of the outer door. By
and by Italia re-entered the room. She
came and went softly, busying herself with
the preparation of her father's supper.
Presently she came near the fire and knelt
before it, screening her face with her outspread
fingers from the blaze while she
watched the boiling water in the kettle out
of which she would presently make the
coffee.

She was observing her father furtively
under shelter of her fingers, and before long
she turned a little and rested her cheek
against his knee.

4 You must be tired, father, and hungry.
And you have let your pipe go out ; poor
father ! ' she said in a deep tone of loving
anxiety.

Ay, child.'

Andrea shifted the pipe slowly to his
other hand and laid his disengaged fingers
fondly upon the girl's thick hair.

There was a silence between them while
the water bubbled and hissed upon the
hearth. But as Italia stooped to lift the
saucepan Drea checked her. He said :

'I've done what I could, child; what I
could.'

1 Yes, father. '

His father was the same sort before
him. I never told you, but Sora Catarina
there, she was my sweetheart once, when we
were all young together. And his father
was my friend, and he took her away from
me. And I was fond of her then, I was.'

Italia drew his hard hand down against
her cheek, and kissed it softly, without
speaking.

'Ay. I was fond of her once — main
fond. And 'twas partly for that, perhaps,
I always had a sort o' fancy for the lad. I
never could bear to be hard on him. An'
he's disappointed me. It's i' the breed, my
girl ; a bad breed, and you can't alter that
with wishing. You can't turn a porpoise
into a dolphin, no matter how long you
leave him in the water.'

As still she made no answer, he added
more insistingly :

I'd have saved you from this if I could,
my pretty. I did all I knew how. But
you can't get a grip on the anchor when
there's no bottom but only shifting sand.

Faithlessness Look here, girl, it's like

poison in one's daily bread.' He stroked
her cheek tenderly, ' My girl, it's poison,
you cant live on it.'

Then Italia lifted up her head.

Dino is not faithless,' she said gently.

Girl, no one believes in him. Not a
soul. Not even the young master — and
they were boys together.'

1 1 do, I believe in him, father.'

She knelt with clasped hands gazing at
the fire, and all the ardour and devotion of
her impassioned soul sounded in her soft
girlish voice. For the moment she felt
superior to all suffering, uplifted to a region
of feeling which knows neither lassitude
nor reluctant pain. And such love
makes all things easy ; it floods dry places ;
it drowns the slime and weeds. It is good,
no doubt, to be strong ; it is wiser to be the
master of our fortunes than their slave.
The truth is obvious enough. But we are
not all strong, God knows ; let us still be

thankful for that divine gift of pity, — tender
and loving pity, — the heritage of the outcast
; that last possession of the disinherited,
of the unsuccessful ; who, owning
this, shall yet know something, even on
this earth, of the very kingdom of heaven.
After a while she rose to her feet ; she
laid her gentle hand upon the old man's
shoulder. ' Come, father. Come to your
supper. You are so tired, dear ; you must
let me take care of you. For the harder
things are, father, the more we will need
each other's love,' Italia said.

WITH Valde.

The sun was not more than half an hour
high in the east when Valdez and Dino
started in their boat to row up the disused
canal to Pisa. It was a mild gray morning.
A pearly-tinted scirocco sky hung low
above the flat country beyond Leghorn ;
on either side were stretches of bare
ploughed land ; the only colour was in the
thick fringe of tall yellow reeds which bordered
the canal, and on the scarlet-stained
leaves of the water plants and brambles
which had survived the winter, hidden
deep under the faded bents of last year's

grass, in sheltered nooks below the overhanging
banks.

It would have been easy to tow the
boat : there was a narrow path trodden
out along the margin by the feet of the
men who still dragged the slow weight
of their flat-bottomed barges, laden with
barrels of oil and sacks of corn, in preference
to sending the merchandise to
Pisa by the new line of railway. But
Dino liked better the labour of rowing
against the sluggish current. The monotonous
action soothed him like the reiteration
of old words which carried pleasant
memories. He felt more himself with the
oars in his strong young hands ; and the
long regular sweep of the blades was like
a visible sign of the vigour and force of
his determination. About nine o'clock it

felt very warm upon the water. The
March sun shining behind the thin gray-veil
of mist, filled the sky with a diffused
whitish glare, — and there was no escaping
it, no possibility of shadow. By the time
he had rowed eight or ten miles Dino was
glad enough to act on Valdez's suggestion,
and run the boat to land under the shelter
of some drooping alders. They stretched
themselves out luxuriously on the short
new grass, where a point of smooth ground
projected for a few feet from the bank.
The water gurgled with a cool liquid
sound as it hurried past them, and the air
was sweet with the smell of bruised herbs.
There was a tuft of scented thyme growing
by Dino's feet. He plucked off a leaf or
two and held them in his hand while he
said :

It is pleasant being here, Valdez.'

'Ay, lad.'

I like rowing. I like everything which
implies being out-of-doors, — doing something
and being no one in particular. If I
had to live over again, Valdez, I'd have
more to do with men than books.'

You may be right there, lad, there's no
saying. After all, a man's personal experience
is the only reality ; the rest is
mere hearsay.'

Dino crushed the aromatic herbs closer
within his hands, and rubbed them over
his face. ' Valdez ! ' he said abruptly,
1 that man over there, — in Rome, — you
know whom I mean — I know nothing
about him ; he has done me no harm.'

1 No, lad. And I see what you mean.
But that's just the puzzling part of it —

when things pull both ways. But there
must come a time in a man's life when he
ceases to ask himself questions, when he
must give up even wanting to know how
well he may be doing the work that's been
set before him, or else the work doesn't
get itself done. For, look you, lad, in a
way, what is absolutely bad is nearly as
satisfactory as what is absolutely good.
It's black or white ; and a man — a man, I
say — can understand either. But it's the
thing between — it's life — which upsets our
calculations.'

It's so damned hard to know that, do
what one will, one can never get any credit
for it. If you stake your life on any desperate
attempt to make things a little
better, people always imagine it was your
own choice, you liked doing it. They

don't ask what it was that made you give
up the pleasantness ; if you get credit for
anything, it's only credit for a morbid taste
for beings wretched.'

1 Credit from society ? credit for what
you do ? why, lad, who gives credit for
anything now, except the tradesmen ?
And they are not in society,' said Valdez,
with a short laugh. He pulled the brim
of his shabby felt hat farther down over his
eyes. ' Society cheapens life. Makes it
full of small interests, small triumphs,
small, bitter disappointments. I've been
through it; I've seen enough of it in my day.'

1 Valdez,' said Dino, looking at him
rather curiously, ' you must have been
leading a very different sort of life before
you came to Leghorn ? You yourself
must have been very different ? '

Ay, lad, a different sort of fool, most
likely. There's a variety in fools, or life
would be too monotonous. I've been
among a good many people in my time,'
he added in his deepest voice ; ' but all
that's past now. Past and forgotten. And
what's over is safest let alone. It's twenty
years now since I've been tuning pianos.
'Tis a good trade ; and one must live
somewhere.'

He rolled over on the damp grass, and
thrust one arm up under his head. ' You
have had a good deal to do with making
me stay there so long, my Dino. I was a
lonely man ; it has made a wonderful difference
to me that feeling that, at any
minute, you might be coming in and out,
making a noise, knocking about in the old
rooms ; they would seem quiet enough

without you. You made a wonderful difference.'


Well ! it's over now,' said Dino, pulling
up a tuft of grass and hurling it far
into the water. ' It's gone like that.'

1 Lad, you take things too hardly. I'm
an older man than you, and I tell you
you should believe in happiness. The
flower of life is a gift, Dino, without
money and without price. The supreme
gifts of the gods can neither be discussed
nor deserved. Believe in happiness ;
expect it ; make room for it in your life.
Have faith. Faith moves mountains.
And happiness is of the swift-footed immortals,
and descends only on the garlanded
altars of her worshippers.'

The old man was curiously roused
out of his usual reticence and quiet. As

they got into the boat again a pale gleam
of sunlight pierced through the gray vapour
overhead and rested on the distant buildings
and spires of Leghorn.

Ay, twenty years. I've lived therefor
twenty years,' Valdez murmured, looking
back at the shining curve of the
white houses beside the sea.

1 Shall you go back immediately ? I
mean — after Rome ? ' Dino asked presently,
taking up the oars.

Valdez glanced at him keenly. ' Maybe
I shall, lad. There's no telling. I'll see
you safely to the end of your journey
first.' After a pause he added, 'We'll
wait till it gets dark, and then walk onto
Bocca d'Arno. I know a man there
will give us a bed to sleep on. And then
we can separate for a day. I will carry

the revolver up with me to Rome and
wait for you there. The review is not
till Friday ; your best plan is to go home
first for a day. And it's safer if I have
the pistol with me. The police might
take it into their heads to have you
watched and searched at the last moment.
You can't tell. And a little extra precaution
costs nothing.'

Why should you think the police
suspect anything ? '

Valdez shrugged his shoulders.

1 Chi lo sa ? Everything and nothing.
There were men I could not account for
at the door of your house when I came
out yesterday. And that young Marchese
friend of yours, I had some words with
him in the street. He spoke of your
getting into dangerous company. But

VOL. II. N

it may be only my fancy ; who can
tell?'

As they drew near Pisa the country
stretched before them a flat ploughed
plain, of a pale reddish brown, crossed
by interminable lines of furrows. There
was not a sign of life anywhere about.
The light sandy soil of the plain stretched
to the far horizon like an expression of
unrequited labour ; for where the green
rows of maize had already pierced the
ground the crop promised to be poor
and thin and stunted. The country was
extraordinarily silent. There was not
even a lark singing under that low-roofed
sky. The dark line of pine-trees where
the king's preserves begin were all blown
one way, and only the wind seemed alive,
a full and rioting scirocco wind blowing

with insolent unconcern across these
empty fields, as though mocking at their
record of patient and unsuccessful toil.

The two men left their boat at the
last bridge, just outside the city gates.
Valdez was familiar with every turning of
the Pisan streets. He led the way now,
without hesitating, to a small dingy shop
not far from the Duomo, where the revolver
was soon purchased, Valdez insisting
upon going in alone to buy it.

And then for hours they sauntered up
and down the quiet thoroughfares, over
the bridges, along the quay by the yellow
Arno. The deadly stillness of the place
weighed with a sort of physical oppression
upon Dino. The hours stretched themselves
out until he could scarcely believe
that it was only in the first freshness of

this same morning that they had turned
their backs upon Leghorn. He was ina
state of half weary, half dreamy unconsciousness,
like a man under the influence
of some strong opiate. Emotion was
dulled and deadened. He talked constantly
to his companion all through that
long spring afternoon ; he found amusement
and occupation in speculating about
the passing faces. Anything was better
than the silence which threatened him with
the awakening of that dull pain, which,
whenever he ceased speaking, seemed to
make a new clutch at his heart.

It was dusk when they left the small
suburban cafe where they had eaten
supper, and passed under an old archway
into the high - road which leads to
the sea. But, late as it was, they were

not the only travellers afoot and bound
for Bocca d'Arno. They had walked
scarcely a quarter of a mile before they
overtook two peasant women, a mother
and daughter, on their way home from
making purchases in the town, and presently,
as they all four walked abreast
along the country road, they fell into converse
together. Valdez began questioning
the elder woman about the crops.
Then he asked her if she sent her children
to the communal schools.

1 Che ! schools ! yes, indeed ! that was
a likely idea, to carry the bimbi four miles
there and four miles back every morning
that God sends us.'

The old democrat looked grave. ' And
are there many children who cannot read
in the pause, my good woman ? '

'Eh, S ignore ! There is my second
cousin, the guardia of the forest, he is an
old man now ; he has been there all his
life, and he gets fifty-six centering a day,
to support himself and his family. It is
likely, is it not ? that he should trouble his
head if the children cannot read the books ?
and they are good children.'

How many has he ? '

'E — e — h! tante ! Now, two of the
boys are grown up enough to work in the
wood as foresters. And that helps. He
doesn't poach, my cousin,' the woman said
regretfully, turning her sensible face towards
Valdez ; ' another man would, si
caprice. But my cousin — he cannot see
well. And then he misses the game he
shoots at. He has no luck about him —
not enough to make you wink your eye.'

She walked on a few yards and added,
1 The Padrone ! ah, yes, that is another sort
of weaving ! The Padrone is a banker in
the city : when he comes to shoot, he
brings his luncheon with him in his pocket ;
two hard-boiled eggs ; that's for fear he
should leave any bones behind him. Is it
not true, I sola ? '

Valdez laughed, and the girl walking beside
Dino opened her blue eyes frankly and
looked up in his face. ' That is true what my
mother says. But you are not like your
friend there, you do not care for the schools ? '

She was pretty, even in this dim light
it was easy to see how pretty, with a round
babyish face and crisp fair hair. She wore
a bright cotton handkerchief knotted over
her head, and in her hand she carried a
large bundle.

1 No. I am not so wise as my friend.
But at least I am good for some things,'
said Dino, smiling down at her. He put
out his hand, ' If you will trust me with it,
we are going the same way. I can carry
your bundle.'

The peasant girl drew back. ' Nay.
What should you do that for ? ' she objected
quickly. Then after a pause for
reflection she suggested, ' Perhaps that is
the fashion in the country that you come
from, to carry other people's burdens ? '

1 Surely.'

Guardate ! But that is quite different.
No one would do it here ; not even the
sposoJ

1 Are you going to be married soon,
I sola ? I think I heard your mother call
you I sola.'

1 Ah, yes ; Isolina ; that is what they
call me. I shall not be married until next
Carnival. It is a long time off, but what
would you have ? When one is poor one
must learn to make oneself small enough
to pass through the cat's hole. That is
what I tell my Pio.' She ended with a
laugh, a clear ringing bird-like sound.

Tell me about him,' said Dino, smiling
sympathetically, with a sense of pure
comradeship in her youth, such as he had
never felt before. All that was living and
joyous and young asserted its claim over
him ; he looked across the road at the two
middle-aged faces of their companions with
an exaggerated perception of what they
had outlived. Life, young buoyant life,
seemed the one thing to be valued. He
was sick of tragedy. What he wanted

was easy youthful laughter, and the warm
bright satisfaction of being. The innocent
chatter of this little peasant girl satisfied
him better than all the theories about all
the universe. He listened in a sort of
vague dream to the rippling flow of her
talk. When she ceased speaking he
yielded to the impulse that was strong
within him ; he told her about Italia.
What he said was very little, only that he
and his sweetheart were parted ; he put it
in the simplest words which she would understand.


She listened ; then she turned her
bright face towards him, glowing with
spirit and brave interest. ' Oh,' she said,
1 I know what it is like, for there was a
time, one week, when they would not let
me speak to my Pio.'

She talked to him now of herself as to
an old friend ; with the unhesitating frankness
of a child ; the young man was
strangely touched and pleased by her
simple confidence.

When the footpath grew narrower she
walked on in front of him. She walked
well, with an easy carriage ; her firm bare
ankles gleamed in the moonlight below the
hem of her short cotton gown ; her loose
wooden shoes made a short quick tapping
at each step which she took.

The night was very warm and still. On
one side of the road the Arno flowed past
silently ; the pale light in the sky was reflected
upon its glassy surface as upon a
sheet of metal ; it looked like a river of lead.
As the moon rose a faint wind stirred softly
among the budding branches of the lime-trees

which edge the fields, and the delicate
shadows of the moving stems fell upon
ploughed land. In each isolated farmyard
the hay-ricks, cut close for last winter's
fodder, assumed a curiously velvety texture
as the moonlight rested on their blanched
and weather-beaten tops.

As they drew nearer the mouth of the
Arno the spreading pines of the Gumbo
made a dark line against the sky to their
right and across the river. The fields grew
wider ; the night was full of a new sound
which was not the sound of the wind. Dino
listened more intently ; his quick ear could
distinguish the muffled beat of the waves
upon the sandy shore.

Presently they reached the borders of
the wood ; the footpath ended ; the soil
grew sandy underfoot. At the turning of

the road there were lights burning in some
cottages. The peasant women stopped at
the door of one of the houses.

1 Good-night,' Isolina called out in her
friendly voice; 'good-night again; and
thank you for the civil company.'

She disappeared amidst a rapturous
chorus of welcome from the farmyard dogs.
She had brought to Dino a charmed hour
of forgetfulness ; he watched her turning
away from him with an air of regret.

Later, as they lounged upon the beach,
smoking their pipes in the still moonlight,
Valdez said, laying his hand affectionately
upon Dino's shoulder, ' I liked hearing you
laugh with that little girl to-night, my lad.
You were such a light-hearted lad in the
old days. You're fretting now. Courage !
my Dino, courage ! There are no depths fora

brave heart from which hope cannot mount ;
hope which outlasts gold and the grave.
And, for a man, whatever the consequence
of his action may be, even to have meant
well, is sufficient excuse in the eyes of the
woman who loves him. Excuse ? it's a
vindication which, nine times out of ten,
will make her end by asking him to forgive
her suspicion.'

I know it ; but it won't save Italia from
suffering,' said Dino quickly.

Valdez was silent. Then he said, ' Did
it never occur to you that there is a chance,
just a chance, of your getting away after
all ? Think of the crowd and the confusion.
And if you once get outside of Rome the
Society will soon find means of taking you
safely beyond the frontier. There is always
that chance, you know.'

I don't believe it,' said Dino, turning
away abruptly.

But the words haunted him — ' There's
always a chance ' — ' always a chance ;' they
rang their changes upon his brain far into
the wakeful night. Once, towards morning,
unable to sleep, he rose and groped his way
to the door of the hut belonging to Valdez's
friend and host. The shore stretched before
him, and the moonlight on the wild sea
grass. When the moon went under a cloud
the wet sand by the edge of the receding
wave was of a bright steely blue ; far away
near the horizon the light still shone, a
streak of burnished silver, upon the tranquil
sea.

Valdez was sleeping quietly ; Dino went
back and threw himself down by his side.

It was late when the young man awoke.

The little hut was empty ; his companion
had gone hours before, leaving behind him
a message, a few scribbled words, to say that
the fishing-smack which was to take Dino
back, by another route, to Leghorn, might
be expected to call at Bocca d'Arno towards
sunset that same afternoon.

There was food and water in the hut.
It was one of those small thatched cabins,
built for the use and shelter of the owners
of the great stationary nets suspended from
beams and worked by means of a crank, of
which there are several by the mouth of
the river.

Dino spent the long day in the woods.
It was a lovely morning when he first went
out, with a touch of April sweetness in the
air. It is a wild and silent shore. The
flat-topped pines grow to the very verge of

the sand-hills. On the sea side the forest
ends in a thick undergrowth of dark-spreading
juniper bushes, which fill the hollows
of the dunes and mingle with the thistles
and the tough salt grass. And the wood
itself is always filled with the sound and
savour of the sea. Before a storm the
white-winged gulls flit wildly in and out
between the pine tops. There is fine white
sand underfoot beneath the moss and the
fallen needles, and thick growths of all
strong-stemmed aromatic sea-loving plants ;
blue rosemary, and tufted heather, and great
golden-crested reeds. Dino lying in one
of those sheltered hollows, with closed eyes,
could scarcely distinguish between the melancholy
murmur of the trees overhead and
the sleepy murmur of the restless waves.
The very air had its mingled breath of salt

VOL. II. o

and sickness, of the sea and the resinous
pines.

By Monte Nero all nature had seemed
dead in his eyes ; the downs there had been
nothing more to him than an empty hillside,
a dull background to his own dominant
existence. But here, in this still wood
perhaps because of his very surrender of
that existence — there was infinite charm
and interest in every moment of the long
calm hours. He felt himself a mere spectator
watching the natural life of things.
He found occupation for half a morning
in seeing the warm spring sunshine creep
across the straight pine stems ; in looking
up at the tender blue of the sky above him ;
in listening to the myriad small noises of
the woods ; bird notes, and the tapping of
the wood-peckers, the hum of insects, the

cracking and stirring of the branches, and
the rustling furtive tread of shy four-footed
creatures, young rabbits, and bright-eyed
squirrels, or the quick darting of green
lizards across the thin, short grass.

Once he reflected, ' They will say in the
papers, afterwards, the prisoner passed a
day before his crime concealed in the woods
at Bocca d'Arno. " Concealed in the
woods !" But will it mean this to them ? '
He looked down, between his elbows, at a
patch of greenest moss ; a miniature pine-tree,
some three inches high, raised itself
proudly above the other small plants, and
a couple of shiny-backed beetles wandered
up and down its stem. Dino felt in his
pocket for crumbs, and strewed them before
the insects, but the motion of his hand
frightened them away. Presently a company

of red-headed ants came up out of the
ground and attacked the provisions. Two
of the ants fought one another for a particular
crumb. Dino watched their movements
with the interest interest. When they had
vanished — 'The prisoner passed the day
before committing his atrocious crime concealed
in the woods of Bocca d'Arno,' he
repeated solemnly, and he laughed aloud.

No one came near him. Once he
heard some quick footsteps and the cheery
whistle of a woodman tramping along some
hidden path on his way home to dinner.
And once, from between the leaves of the
neighbouring alder thicket — young leaves
so brightly green that they might be mistaken
for flowers — there came a heavy
rustling sound which excited his curiosity.
He strolled over to the place, and peered

in between the branches at a pair of those
great melancholy-eyed white oxen common
to that part of the country.

Something in the presence of those
4 slow moving animals, breathing content
reminded him of his little contains. A
sudden wish to speak to her again made
him abandon his wood. Inland, a broad,
wet ditch, half full of faded sea-heather,
divided him from the ploughed fields. He
jumped the ditch, and there, hard at work behind
a hedgerow, he stumbled upon Isolina.

Her short blue gown was tucked up
above her knees ; her scarlet kerchief was
hanging loose from her hair ; she was digging
away like a man, and her bright,
childish face was all rosy and warm with
the exertion. She nodded in the most
friendly fashion to Dino as he came nearer,

but time was too precious to be wasted on
mere talk this busy morning. Only, as he
moved away again, she held her spade
suspended in the air for a moment, and her
round cheeks grew pinker still as she said,
As you pass through the farther field, will
you greet my Pio for me ? Give him tante
salute, for I have not seen him to-day.'

Shall I tell him I left you making the
cat hole bigger ? ' asked Dino, beginning
to laugh.

Her white teeth flashed. ' Tell him to
dig away at his own end of it.' And presently
Dino heard her voice singing as he
strolled away between the moist brown
furrows.

He had no difficulty in finding Pio, a
short, thick-set contains, with a smiling,
good-natured face below its thatch of thick,

irregularly-clipped hair, brown hair burnt
red by the sun. His face was tanned to
the colour of yellow bricks, except at the
temples and behind the ears, where there
were bits of white skin. He wore a ring
on his hand, and used the most singular
gestures in speaking.

Dino sat down on the edge of the ditch
among the weeds and grasses to watch him
at his work. Valdez would have talked of
common schools, perhaps of politics ; would
have tried most likely to drive some faint
idea of social equality and the rights of
labour into this sturdy peasant with the
Figaro face. The more Dino looked at
him the more remote he felt from any impulse
of proselytising.

This idyllic love-making, with its simple
interests and its simple cares ; its messages

sent from field to field ; — its naivete, its
sincerity, its security, — ended by plunging
Dino into the profoundest melancholy.
For the first time he absolutely realised
what was this thing which he had undertaken.
He gazed at the young fellow
beside him ; he noted how the strong
muscles played along his back as he bent
to his work, and the vigorous vital grip
of his horny hand.

Will that piece of ditching be done tomorrow
?' he asked suddenly.

The contains straightened his shoulders
and kicked aside a heavy clod. ' Na — ay.
I'll be at work here all o' Friday, if the
master doesn't put me at something else,'
he said slowly.

At work here o' Friday, and Friday was
the day of the review. Dino's whiter hand

was lying across his knee ; he clenched the
ringers together with a sudden passion, and
thrust his doubled fist into his pocket. His
hand, in his own eyes, had seemed the
hand of a corpse.

Good-bye.

Late that afternoon, as Dino sprang out
of the fishing-smack on the stone steps of
the landing-place at Leghorn, the first
person whom his glance rested on was
broad-shouldered Maso sitting on the edge
of the quay with his legs and feet dangling
over the water. He got up slowly as
Dino came nearer, and nodded with cheerful
friendliness.

/ know that boat you came in. Shea
Bocca d'Arno smack, she is. The man
who owns her lives at Pisa.'

So he does, Maso.'

Dino looked rather anxiously about
him. It seemed only too probable that old
Drea was making one of that blue-coated
group of fishermen who were sitting a
dozen paces off on a coil of old ropes,
criticising the craft that passed at this
leisurely hour of the day, when the nets
had already been looked after, and there
was time for a pause and the smoking of
pipes before the night work began. And
Dino did not wish to meet the old man
again. He shrank from having to feel
once more the altered look of that face ;
all the old affection felt bruised and sore
when he remembered it. He would have
turned away now without further speech,
but Maso detained him.

4 Aren't you coming back to work in the
Bella Maria, Dino ? She's short-handed

now with only Sor Drea and me. 'Twas
all we could do to manage the nets this
morning. I asked the Padrone if you
weren't coming back soon."

Ay ; and what did he say ? ' asked
Dino, rather eagerly. It would be a comfort
still to know that his old friend could
speak kindly of him.

Taciturn Maso took off his round cap
and scratched his thick, curly hair with an
air of consideration. ' Well, I dunno,' he
said dubiously. ' He swore at me for being
a fool, as far as I can remember. But that
wasn't much of an answer — that wasn't.
An' yet somehow I didn't seem to miss
nothing.'

1 But didn't he say anything ? Try and
remember, Maso ; there's a good fellow.
Didn't he say : " Oh, Dino is going away,"

or, " Dino has other business to attend
to?" He must have said something, you
know.'

Well, he did swear at me. I told you
that already. But, good Lord ! some people
are never satisfied unless the words come
in shoals, like the mackerel when the sharks
are driving 'em ashore. An' it's Maso
here, and Maso there, till I want to put my
head in a bucket o' salt water ; I do.
That's why I like Italia to speak to me,' he
added reflectively. ' She never says too
much, and her words are sort o' pretty, like
the sea in a calm, when the water is just
dozing and making a pleasant noise.'

1 Have you seen her ? — have you seen
Italia to-day, Maso ?' asked Dino, his heart
beginning to beat faster.

1 Oh, ay ; that's why I came here to

wait for you. I saw your boat ; I knew
her by the cut of her sails before she was
fairly round the point yonder. But I'd ha'
brought her in on a shorter tack if I'd had
the steering of her — / should.'

1 What — what was it Italia wished you
to tell me?' asked Dino, making a strong
effort to control his impatience and not
excite the wonder of the honest, slow-witted
young fellow by his side.

1 It wasn't so much of a message after
all, when I think o' it. I say, Dino, you
know Sora Lucia ? She lives at the top
of that big house in the Via Branch.'

I know — I know.'

'Well, you were to go there, now, this
afternoon. Sora Lucia wants to speak to
you. That was what Italia told me. She
told me twice. But, Lord, I'm not such

a stupid as that. I can remember what
she says fast enough.'

'Very well, then; I'll go now,' said
Dino, feeling rather disappointed. Still it
was possible that the little dressmaker
might have some message for him. He
turned back to inquire of Maso how it was
that Italia knew of his return so exactly.

'Nay, how should I know?' retorted
Maso reproachfully. ' You don't suppose
I asked her, do you ?'

He stood on the quay staring after
young De Rossi with a look of the most
sincere admiration dawning in his big blue
eyes. Dino was in some sort of serious
scrape, he reflected gravely. Else why
didn't he come back to the old boat ? And
to have time, and opportunity, and invention
enough to get into a serious scrape

was in itself a distinction in honest Maso's
eyes. It was almost like being a gentleman.
They got into lots o' trouble, did
the Patron.

'It all comes of his having an education,'
he pondered enviously, leaning against
the parapet and looking at Dino's back.

It was not far to the corner house in the
Via Branch. Dino went slowly up the
many stairs ; it was impossible to say what
he expected, but his heart beat very fast ashe
stopped before Lucia's door, and at first
he was not sure, he could not tell, if there
had been any answer to his knock.

\ Avant, Avant. Come in ; I cannot
leave the work,' a woman's voice repeated
briskly, and he opened the door. The first
glance showed him that the big room was
empty of what he most desired. There

was no one in it but Lucia, who was standing
with her back to him engaged in pressing
down the folds of a gown with a hot iron.

'Oh. So that's you, Dino ; is it?' she
said brusquely, without turning her head.

1 1 came as soon as I got your message.
I have only just returned from Bocca d'Arno,
Sora Lucia ; and I met Maso on the quay.'

Oh. 'Twas Maso that told you ; was
it ? See there now. And I who always
took him for a sort of two-legged sea-calf,
with only just sense enough in him to fall
in love with Italia.'

'Maso! that fellow!'

Well, well. I am not talking Latin,
am I ? Santa Vergine, it would be a fine
world if all the men in it were to keep their

eyes shut because a certain young man

Bast a. I understand what I mean.'

VOL. II. p

She nodded her head several times, and
took up another iron, holding it carefully
near her face to determine the exact degree
of heat.

Dino sat and looked at her in silence.
The clock ticked loudly on its shelf, and
the dozing cat, awakening to the fact of the
presence of a visitor, stretched itself two or
three times sleepily, and then made a spring
and perched itself on the young man's knee.
He rubbed the creature's head mechanically
until it purred. Then he put it down
gently on the ground and stood up.

I thought you might have something
to say to me, Sora Lucia. But if not I will
ask you to let me wish you good-bye now.
I have not seen my mother yet : and I am
going away — I am going to Rome tomorrow


1 Ah, Rome is a fine city,' said Sora
Lucia briskly. Then she bent her head
over her work again and added : ' I, too,
have business in Rome. I have a cousin
there, my own flesh and blood cousin, who
has a shop for beads and rosaries and
objects of devotion in the Borgo. Not
more than a stone's throw from the
house of the Holy Father, as one might
say. I may be going up to Rome
myself one of these days. It seems
as if Leghorn wasn't good enough to
stay in any more. The whole world's
travelling.'

1 Dunque, I'll say good-bye without
troubling you further, Sora Lucia.'

1 Oh, you'll not go without a greeting to
the nonne first. She's wonderfully pleased
when people remember to say good-bye to

her,' said Lucia hastily, putting down her
irons with a clatter.

She went to the inner door and opened
it.

Beppi. Run to the grandmother, child,
and say that Dino de' Rossi is here and
waiting to make her his salute. — And tell
Italia that I want her. Say that I want her ;
do you understand ? These children have
not so much head as a pin between 'em all
she said hastily, coming back to her work
with almost a blush upon her thin pale
cheek.

Dino looked at her with great agitation.

• Does Italia know Sora Lucia, if Italia

should not wish to see me '

She's not here to see you. She paying
me a visit,' said the little dressmaker
sharply. ' And not the worst tongue in

Leghorn could blame the girl for coming
here. It would be a fine thing, indeed, if
I had to give up all my friends to please
you, Sor Dino ! I — Santa pazienza J "

The door opened again and Italia came
in, leading by the hand a very old woman,
who steadied herself at the door, and
dropped Dino a series of small tremulous
curtsies.

1 1 don't remember who the Signore maybe,
Lucia; but you know who he is. I'm
a very old woman now, sir ; very old. I
don't rightly remember how many years
'tis now that I've been living ; but I
worked for forty year at the marble works,
I did ; forty year picking over the rags to
pack the marble.'

There, nonne, come and sit in your
own chair by the fire ; that's what you

like best,' said Lucia, glancing half guiltily
at Italia.

The girl did not notice her. She had
silently given her hand to Dino as she came
in. They stood so for an instant without
speaking ; then she slowly lifted up her
dark eyes. There was no young smile in
them now, and her dear pale face had grown
rigid and strained. She looked as if all the
gladness had been killed within her. Only
her voice had not changed ; its full clear ring
sounded like a mockery now after meeting
that look of infinite misery in her eyes.

I wanted to say good-bye, Dino.'

'Yes.'

'And I wanted to ask you, when you
go to Rome, could not little Palmira go
with you ? Will you take her, Dino ?
Please take her.'

Palmira ? take that child ? But,
dear Italia, indeed it would be quite impossible!'


He was surprised into speaking very
abruptly.

Would it ? I did not know. But I
wish you would,' Italia murmured, looking
down at her hands. She added hurriedly,
and hardly moving her lips : ' If any one
were watching your movements ; if they
suspected you of anything ; it would be
safer to have the child.'

1 But, dear, I could not take her. It is
impossible. Why, for one thing, I have
no money. What could I do with the
child in Rome?' Dino urged, still speaking
with the vehemence of surprise.

She shrank away a little. ' I did not
know. I think it could be managed.'

'Italia, Italia, I want to ask you about
this work ; you always know the right
thing to advise one,' said Lucia in a hasty
voice, looking up from her ironing.

But when Italia came to her she said
nothing, only pushing back the girl's heavy
hair, and giving her a little pat on the
cheek. ' There, go away, go away, child.
You are interrupting me. Go and talk
to the nonne?

The old woman was watching the fire,
her eyes following its flickering motion
like the eyes of a young child. She said
in a quavering voice as Italia laid her hand
on her shoulder, 'My knitting, Maria;
have you brought me my knitting ?'

Grannie always calls Italia Maria,' observed
the small Beppi in an explanatory
manner to Dino. ' She says Maria do this,

Maria do that, and all the while she's
speaking to Italia.'

It was my mother's name,' said Lucia,
nodding her head. c She's dead these
twenty years, the saints have her soul ! but
the nonne doesn't remember.'

Italia was kneeling before the purblind
old dame, picking up the dropped stitches
in a [coarse woollen stocking. ' Now it
will do nicely, dear nonne! she said in
her clear grave voice ; and the grandmother
laid her trembling hand upon the
girl's thick hair and stroked it ; ' You were
always a good child, Maria ; always. Now
Lucia there she never married, an' there's
many a thing she doesn't understand, —
many a thing, — many a thing.'

1 Italia, will you fetch me the body of
this dress ? I left it in the other room

Chapon

the table,' said Lucia suddenly. She
waited till the girl had passed through
the open door, then she hurriedly turned
and looked at Dino : ' Go — go and help
her find it!'

He went straight up to the girl and
caught both her hands in his.

My dear, my love, if there was anything
I could do or say to comfort you. I
would give my life — my life ! to undo the
harm that I have done to you, Italia.'

1 Oh no,' she said hastily, and disengaged
her hands and bent her head
over Lucia's work. ' Dino.'

'Yes, dear.

I wanted to ask you. There is just
one thing.' She bent her face until it
nearly touched the table. ' They tell me
so, and I cannot contradict it,' she murmured

; her sweet lips contracted and grew
pale.

What is it, dear ? Tell me. Tell me,
Italia.'

1 Ah, there is no other woman whom you
care for, then, at Rome ?' Her voice was
scarcely audible, and she turned her head
from side to side without looking at him.

'Italia!'

He caught hold of her hands again,
and forced her to meet his glance. ' Upon
my honour — no ! There is no other
woman for me in all the world but you.
And I love you, Italia, — I love you, I love
you,' Dino said.

She bent her head a little. ' I did
not know.' Then, still without looking
at him, ' Now — I shall not be so unhappy,
my Dino/

Sora Lucia came as far as the doorway
and looked in. * You have found the
bodice, Italia ? Well, well, there is no
hurry for it, none at all.'

I'm coming, Lucia — directly.'

She clasped both her hands together,
and held them out mutely.

1 Italia,' he said, seizing them, ' I must
ask you this. Is it true about Maso ?
would your father make you marry him ?
For God's sake tell me ! '

I can't grieve my father,' she said
faintly ; ' he has only me. But — Dino ' —
her eyes seemed to pierce his very heart
as she looked at him — ' oh, my poor
Dino!' she said. And she stooped and
gathered up the scattered pieces of work
from the table, and left him standing there
alone in the room.

He could never remember what happened
after then until he found himself
out in the street, walking towards home
through the still spring twilight.

But the next day, just as the Roman
train was starting, a woman dressed very
neatly in black, and holding a child by the
hand, came running along the platform,
looking in at the windows of the third-class
carriages. It was Sora Lucia with
little Palmira ; they had scarcely time to
secure their seats in Dino's compartment
before the train started.

You may well be surprised to see us ;
you may well look astonished, Sor Dino,'
the little dressmaker began nervously, as
the engine puffed out of the station.

1 But, oh, Dino, Dino, it was Italia's
plan!' broke in little Palmira, clapping

her hands ecstatically. 'And she asked
mother to let me go with Lucia, only
mother wouldn't tell you because it was
to be a secret. And Italia said that Lucia
would have to go and see her cousin, and
you would take me to look at the wolf,
Dino. Dino, will you take me to look at
the wolf?'

What does this mean ?' the young
man demanded rather impatiently, fixing
his eyes on Lucia, who only tossed her
head, affecting to be absorbed in examining
the fastening of the window.

'And, Dino, Italia sold her ring in a
shop, her beautiful new gold ring that the
Signor Marchese gave her on her birthday.
She sold it to get the money to
send us, because Lucia had to go and see
her cousins, who have a shop in the

Borgo,' continued little Palmira in an awestruck
voice. She had never seen Dino
look so strangely ; his face was quite
white, and he did not seem at all pleased
to see them. The prospect of feeding the
wolf grew fainter at every minute, and
Palmira's small pale cheeks began to flush
ominously.

'There, there, little one. Don't cry.
There's a good little girl,' said Dino
hastily, and patting her kindly on the
head.

He lowered his voice and turned to
Lucia. ' Was this Italia' s own idea ?
Did no one suggest it to her?' he asked
anxiously.

1 Nay, if you want to know so many
things about Italia, Sor Dino, 'tis a pity
you could not stay in Leghorn long

enough to ask her the questions yourself.
But you prefer leaving the people who
care for you to dry their own eyes and
look after their own concerns. Well, well,
it's the way of the world apparently. And
you take your own responsibility. After
all, one's actions belong to oneself; you
can't have other people's babies,' said Sora
Lucia dryly. And she continued to lookout
of the carriage window till they were
well on their way to Rome.

THE FIRING OF THE SHOT.

Valdez seemed very much struck by the
news of little Palmira's arrival. The child
had gone to spend the night with Lucia
at the house of her cousin. ' But you can
call for her there in the morning, my Dino.
Ay ; call for her and take her with you by
all means. So Italia sent her after you ?
Ah ! it needs a woman to think of a thing
like that. Ay ; take the child ; 'tis the
one surest way of diverting any suspicion.
And I'll be near you, lad, at the time; I'll
look after her ; I'll look after her.'

The old man had placed both food and

VOL. II. Q

wine upon the table in the small lodging
which he had secured for himself and De
Rossi, but Dino did not even make a
pretence of eating.

'You'll be fit for nothing tomorrow,
lad Valdez remonstrated, looking at him
rather anxiously.

■ I want nothing — nothing,' said Dino
with passionate impatience, turning his
back upon him and beginning to pace
up and down the narrow room.

Nay, have your own way, lad ; have
your own way.'

Dino went and stood by the window,
looking out at the small, dimly-lighted
street. A slight shower of rain was falling
; he stood there for a long time idly
watching the reflections of the gas-lamp
opposite upon the glistening stones.

'Valdez,' he said abruptly, 'where do
you suppose I shall be at this time tomorrow
? ' But he went on without giving
him time to answer. ' It's an odd thing
that feeling that one has done with
one's youth. I've had an experience that
has made everything different to me. I
could not go back now ; no more than a
man could go back to being a child.
Perhaps I wasn't worth much before. I
never thought of that. But I think I
might be of some use if I were to live
now, Valdez.'

Ay, my lad. You've made a great
difference to me as it is,' the old man
answered tenderly.

Presently he, too, rose from his chair
and went and stood beside the window.

1 There was one thing I had to tell

you ; I nearly forgot it. I've been to
see the head men of the committee since
I came up here, and I've settled one thing
for you, — after tomorrow your name gets
struck off the books. I've done one or
two things for them in my time,' Valdez
said slowly, ' and they owed me something.
I never asked them for anything
before. And I made myself responsible
for you in this matter, lad ; I answered
for you at Leghorn.' He laid his hand
on Dino's shoulder. * It was I who
brought you into this thing at the beginning.
And I made a mistake. You're
not fit for it. But you've never reproached
me with what it costs you, my lad ; never
once.'

Dino looked at him vaguely, as if he
scarcely understood what was said.

I'm not afraid, if that is what you
mean,' he said simply. ' I never was
afraid for myself. It is only leaving the
others that I mind — Italia, and the mother,
and old Drea. You don't know how good
they have been to me, Valdez. I don't
know why. It seems now as if I had
never done anything for it. But I'm not
frightened. You need not think I'd play
you false at the last.'

No, lad ; no.'

1 1 offered once to give it all up — to
throw everything over — for Italia. She
would not let me. But you don't know
how I hurt her, Valdez. And I can never
make it up to her now.'

'Ah! she has a brave heart, that girl,'
said Valdez in his deepest voice. 'A
brave true heart. And courage and passion,

Dino, you can't go beyond that, —
courage and passion, they're the immortal
facts of life. Where they pass the world
marks the spot.'

He shifted his grasp a little, and let
his hand rest upon the young man's arm,
Come to bed, boy. Give over thinking.
You are tired out, my Dino ; you need
sleep,' he said, speaking with a strange
new gentleness. As for himself, he never
went to bed at all. Through the long
dreary hours of the night he sat patiently
waiting in the darkened room for the sun
to rise upon a new day.

Dino had thrown himself down upon the
hard couch at the end of the room. He
slept heavily, the sleep of young exhaustion.
Once, towards daybreak, he started
up suddenly with an exclamation of alarm.

Valdez ! I thought it was morning,
Valdez.'

Nay, lad ; I'll call you when the time
comes ; go to sleep.'

What sort of a night is it now ?'

The old democrat rose stiffly from his
chair ; he felt cramped and sore from the
long night's watching. He pushed aside
the scanty curtain. ' The rain has stopped.
It'll be a fine day tomorrow.'

'So much the better,' Dino said. 'I
should like the sun to shine.' His head
dropped again upon his hard pillow. The
candle had burnt itself out in its socket.
There was no sound in the room but the
heavy breathing of the weary sleeper and
the ticking of Valdez's watch, which lay before
him on the table. He sat there, counting
the hours.

And at last the dawn broke, chill and
gray ; the dim light struggling in at the
window made a faint glimmer upon the
glasses which stood beside the untouched
food. To the old man keeping his faithful
watch beside the sleeper, this was perhaps
the hardest hour of all — till the darkness
wore slowly away ; the sky turned to a
clear stainless blue ; and all the city awoke
to the radiance of the April day.

Soon the bells began their joyous clash
and clamour. It was hardly eight o'clock
when the two men stepped out into the
street together, but the rejoicing populace
was astir already, and hurrying towards
the new quarter of the Macao.

Rome was in festa, heavy and splendid
Rome. Bright flags fluttered, and many-coloured
carpets and rugs were suspended

from every available window. All along
the Via Nationale, a double row of gaudily-decked
Venetian masts, hung with long
wreaths and brilliant flapping banners,
marked the course where the royal carriages
were to pass. But it was farther
on, at the Piazza dell' Independence, that
the crowd was already thickest. The cordon
of soldiers had been stationed here
since early morning. Looking down from
any of the neighbouring balconies upon
that swarming sea of holiday-makers, it
seemed impossible that even the great
Piazza could contain more ; and yet at
every instant the place grew fuller and
fuller ; a steady stream of people poured
in from every side street ; peasants from
the country in gay festa dress ; shepherds
from the Campagna in cloaks of matted

sheepskin ; and strapping black-haired girls
with shrill voices and the step of queens,
who had come all the way from Trastevere
to look on at the spectacle, — there was no
end, no cessation to the thickening and the
growing excitement of the crowd.

Dino had taken his place very early.
It was exactly at the corner of the Piazza,
where a street-lamp made a support for his
back, and prevented him from being brushed
aside by the gathering force and pressure
of the multitude. He had found a safe
place for Palmira to stand, on the iron
ledge which ran around the lamp-post. The
child's little pale face rose high above the
crowd ; she was quiet from very excess of
excitement, only from time to time she
stooped to touch her brother's shoulder in
token of mute content.

Valdez stood only a few paces behind
them. He had kept the revolver in his
own possession to the last moment. It
was arranged that he should pass it to
Dino at a preconceived signal, and as the
King came riding past for the second
time.

Dino had scarcely spoken all that
morning, but otherwise there was no sign
of unusual excitement about him. He
was deadly pale ; at short intervals a faint
red flush came and went like a stain upon
his colourless cheek. But he answered all
little Palmira's questions very patiently.
The morning seemed very long to him,
that was all. He stood fingering the handkerchief
in his pocket with which he was to
give Valdez the signal for passing him the
weapon.

CHAP.

It was more than twenty-four hours now
since he had tasted food, and the long abstinence
was beginning to tell upon him ;
at times his head felt dizzy, and if he closed
his eyes the continuous roar and chatter of
the crowd sunk — died away far off — like the
sound of the surf upon a distant shore.
At one moment he let himself go entirely
to this curious new sensation of drifting
far away ; it was barely an instant of actual
time, but he recovered himself with a start
which ran like ice from head to foot ; it
was a horrible sensation, like a slow return
from the very nothingness of death. He
shivered and opened his eyes wide and
looked about him. He seemed to have
been far far away from it all in that one
briefest pause of semi-unconsciousness, yet
his eyes opened on the same radiant brightness

of the sunshine ; a holiday sun shining
bravely down on glancing arms and fretting
horses ; on the dark line of the soldiers
pressing back the people, and the many-coloured
dresses, the laughing, talking,
good-natured faces of the gesticulating
crowd.

One of these mounted troopers was justin
front of Dino. As the human mass
surged forward, urged by some unexplainable
impulse of excitement and curiosity,
this man's horse began backing and plunging.
The young soldier turned around in
his saddle, and his quick glance fell upon
Palmira's startled face.

Take care of your little girl there, my
friend,' he said to Dino good-humouredly,
and forced his horse away from the edge
of the pavement.

Dino looked at him without answering.
He wondered vaguely if this soldier boy
with the friendly blue eyes and the rosy
face would be one of the first to fall upon
him when he was arrested ? And then
his thoughts escaped him again — the
dimness came over his eyes.

He roused himself with a desperate
effort. He began to count the number of
windows in the house opposite ; then the
number of policemen stationed at the street
corner; an officer went galloping by; he
fixed his eyes upon the glancing uniform
until it became a mere spot of brightness
in the distance.

Hark!

The gun at the palace. The King
was starting from the Quirinal. All the
scattered cries and laughs and voices

were wielded together into one long
quavering roar of satisfaction and excitement.


There — again ! and nearer at hand this
second gun.

The cheers rise higher, sink deeper.
He is coming, the young soldier King, the
master of Italy, the popular hero. See!
hats are waving, men are shouting, — the
infection of enthusiasm catches and runs
like fire along the line of eager, expectant
faces. Here he comes. The roar lifts,
swells, grows louder and louder ; the
military bands on either side of the piazza
break with one accord into the triumphant
ringing rhythm of the royal march.
They have seen the troops defile before
them with scarcely a sign of interest, but
now, at sight of that little isolated group

of riders with the plumed and glittering
helmets, there comes one mad instant of
frantic acclamation, when every man in
that crowd feels that he too has some part
and possession in all the compelling,
alluring splendour and success of life.

And just behind the royal cavalier,
among the glittering group of aides decamp,
rode the young Marchese Balbi.
He was so near that Dino could scarcely
believe their eyes did not actually meet ;
but if Gasparo recognised him he gave no
sign, riding on with a smile upon his
happy face, his silver-mounted accoutrements
shining bravely in the sun.

And so, for the first time, the doomed
King passed by.

Dino scarcely heeded him ; at that
moment he had forgotten everything

unconnected with the sight of that one
familiar face. His mother, his old home,
Italia even, — had grown dim and unreal;
he forgot them all in the sensation of that
quick rush of renewed affection. All the
old pride, the old delight, in Gasparo,
which had made so great a part of his
boyhood, came back upon him with the
irresistible claims of reawakened tenderness.
He was there to commit a murder;
and out of all that crowd he saw only
the one face which he knew — and he
loved it.

That curious sense of floating away, faraway
from everything living, fell upon him
again. He lost all count of time. He
could never tell how long it was before he
heard little Palmira cry out in shrill tones
of childish excitement :

VOL. II. R

1 1 see him, Dino. There he comes
again. The King, the King all in gold !'

Dino started, it seemed to him as if he
started wide awake. He drew himself up
like a soldier standing at attention ; his
brain was steady ; his senses all alert.
He watched eagerly, the white plumes
were slowly advancing between the two
serried ranks of the soldiery. He waited
until he could distinguish the King's face
distinctly ; he saw him lean a little forward
and pat his restive horse .

And then, without turning, he gave
Valdez the preconceived signal.

And even as he raised the handkerchief
to his lips he heard, not ten paces off, the
sharp ringing report of a shot.

It was all over in an instant — the sound
the plunging of the frightened horses.

He saw the white plume of the King pass
by unscathed, and Gasparo Balbi, who was
riding nearest him, throw up his arms and
fall backward, quietly, into the rising cloud
of dust.

A great cry broke from the people all
about him — it rang in his ears — it sounded
far away like the beating of a furious tide
upon the distant, distant shore. A blackness,
a horrible blackness which he could
feel, passed over his face like a cloud.
And then he knew nothing more.

Some quarter of an hour later one ol
the two gtiardie who were helping to lift
his insensible body into a street cab
looked compassionately down at Dino's
clenched hands and pallid death-like face.

'Tis no wonder the poor giovanni

fainted,' he said sympathetically, addressing
the little crowd about him. ' Tis no
wonder he fainted. Perdio ! as it so
happens I was looking straight at him, —
he was not ten paces away from the villain
who fired the shot.'

VESTIGIA NULLA RETRORSUM.

One cloudless April morning, some three
weeks later, the warm bright sunshine was
making a pleasant difference even to the
prisoners who were taking their usual
hour of exercise between the four high
walls of the paved courtyard at the Career
Nuovo. But there was one among them,
a middle-aged man with gray hair and a
curiously piercing look in his heavy-lidded
eyes, who seemed to be expecting something
beside the blue sky and the soft air
of this balmy morning. And presently
that something came.

The other prisoners looked after him
rather enviously as he left the court in
answer to the turnkey's imperative summons.
Apparently he had been sent for
to speak to a friend ; they grumbled a
little between themselves at this sign of
the governor's favour.

It was Dino de Rossi who was waiting
for Valdez in that small high-walled cell.
The two men had not met since the morning
of the attempted assassination ; they
grasped hands and looked into one another's
face with an emotion which lay too
deep for mere speech.

Presently the older man s mouth relaxed
into a faint smile. ' Well, lad. So you have
come to see me. You are looking better.
They told me you were very ill, and I've
been anxious about you,' he said simply.

1 I came to you as soon as I could getup,'
Dino answered, in a voice that was
broken with repressed feeling. He looked
about him, at the prison bed, the grated
window, the bare stone walls. ' You've put
yourself here, — here, in my place, Valdez.
Valdez, it nearly drives me mad to remember
it. I'd give half my life if I could
change places with you to-day.'

1 Nay, my lad, there's nothing the
matter with the place. It's comfortable
enough ; and it's of my own choosing.
Come, come, my Dino ; you're weak still
with the fever ; sit down, lad, sit down.'

They sat down side by side on the
narrow straw pallet. Then Valdez added
cheerfully, ' And there's better news still
of your friend Gasparo this morning. I'm
glad of that. I bore the young man no

malice; I'm glad to think he's likely to
get over it, after all

1 Valdez, I never could understand that
part of it; they said at the trial you wanted
to shoot him purposely. They said you
had had some quarrel with him ? '

'Ay, lad. There was no denying we
had had words together ; and that fat
old fool, Sor Giovanni, whom they got
up from Leghorn as a witness, — he was
willing to swear till he was black in the
face that he had heard me threaten to
murder the young Marchese He lowered
his voice and added, ' I'd had my directions
beforehand — from them — up at the committee
there, what to say in case the attempt
on the King proved a failure. I know the
best thing I can do for them is to hold my
tongue. If the judges chose to shut their

eyes to what's staring them in the face, it's
not my duty to correct their blunders.
But they wanted to hush it up, lad ; they
did not want to make it into a political
scandal, with those elections coming on.'

He was silent again. Then he turned
and laid his hand affectionately, in the old
way, on Dino's shoulder.

1 How are they all at Leghorn, boy ? "

'AH well. I had a letter from my
mother this morning.'

'And Italia?'

Dino half smiled. ' Well too. She
sent me a message for you. She wanted
you to know she never would believe
you had meant to hurt anybody. You
don't mind my telling you, Valdez ? She
meant only what was kindest.'

1 Ay. She's a good girl that ; a good

girl. And when are you going back to
them all, my boy,' he asked suddenly, fixing
his companion with his piercing glance.

Dino flushed red. ' I shall stay and
see you through it. Valdez, that is little
enough to do for you. You don't think I
would leave you till I see you free ? '

Nay, lad,' said the old man very gently,
1 you'll let me have my own way i' this
matter, I know. I've seen you ; and you
know I'm pretty safe as it is. Unless things
take a bad turn for that young Gasparo,
they can't do much worse to me than shut
meus in prison for a bit. And that's nothing.'

He started up to his feet, and began
pacing backwards and forwards between
the four walls of the narrow cell.

'The plan's miscarried. It may have
been a good one or a bad one, but we

know where the orders came from, and it
wasn't our place to judge of that. And
I don't judge of it. I've chosen my place
in life, and I'll abide by it to the end.
When a man has meant anything strongly
there's never any real going back again for
him. It isn't the failure or the success,
it's the purpose, the will that is in him,
that makes the difference.'

He stopped, leaning against the wall
beneath the grated window.

1 What is the whole teaching of daily
life, my Dino, if it is not to accept the
material success — le fait accompli — as if it
were a very law from heaven ? Not to do
that, they tell us, is to be a fool or a madman
; it is to shut one's eyes against
evidence, and one's ears against commonsense
; to wear out friendship and to forfeit

sympathy. That's the lesson you
may learn at any street corner, and, if you
listen, you will hear it cried out in the
wilderness. It's what your old fisher
friend, how do you call him ? old Andrea,
has preached to you. Tis the Alpha and
Omega of many a good man's philosophy.
But I,' the old socialist drew himself up,
and his eyes flashed fire, ' I think otherwise.
To me, half the time, material
success, and what society teaches, and
what poverty enjoins, are but the negation
of every high ideal, of every disinterested
protest against injustice, of every struggle
against social tyranny and bitter social
wrong. That's my creed, lad. That's my
creed, and, good or bad, I'll never turn
my back upon it. No! not if I had to
spend every hour of my existence here ! '

I wish to God that I could do more
than merely understand you, I wish to
God that I were capable of feeling with
you, believing with you, Valdez.'

■ Nay, lad, you've tried ; you've done
your best. And when you found you'd
undertaken more than you could well
accomplish, still you went on, — you went
on. To be faithful, my Dino, to keep
faith simply and joyously, is to reach and
hold the essential best of life. But to
keep faith at any price, in any fashion, todo
it even grudgingly, counting the cost,
looking back at the world with all its
temptations, yet, even then, moving away
from them, however slowly — well, even
that is enough to give some touch of
divine dignity to a life. It is reaching the
end without the glow of the triumph, but

still the end is reached. We can't all of
us claim the praise as well as the victory,
and yet the victory is there.'

He spoke with all the force and fervour
of a life-long conviction. The faint light
streaming in at the small high window
gave a solemn look of isolation to the
narrow room ; it seemed a fitting background
for the worn undaunted face.

But presently the old man's glance
softened. He held out both his hands.

You're young, lad, you're young, and
all the best of life's before you. It makes
me glad to think of that still. For you've
made a great difference in my life, Dino.
And it hurt me, ay, it hurt me to think
that I had injured yours.'

Valdez — if I'm ever worth anything —
if I ever learn to believe unreservedly in

anything Oh, I can't say it. But you

know what I mean ; — I owe it all to you.'

They grasped one another's hands
hard as the key turned harshly in the lock
of the door behind them. They spoke no
word of farewell.

Palmira was waiting for Dino in the
jailor's lodge by the entrance. The child
gave one quick anxious look into her
brother's quivering face, then she slipped
her hand quietly into his without speaking.
Both were silent until they stood outside
the iron gates. Then Dino stood still.
He was weak yet, and confused from the
fever. He could scarcely understand how
much of what was passing around him was
real. He stood there hesitating; surely it
was no delusion that he had pledged his
very life away ? Yet he stood there, a

free man, in the April sunlight ; with the
hand of a little child in his, and behind
him was the prison door.

He crossed over to the small piazza ;
he went and sat on a wooden bench beside
the fountain ; it wanted an hour yet to the
time of the starting of the Leghorn train.

1 Are we not going back now, my Dino,
to Italia ? ' Palmira asked, after a long
pause, eyeing him anxiously.

'Ay.'

He answered like a man in a dream.
And it was a dream of coming joy which
held him silent ; a vision of flood-tides filling
all the empty places of existence ; a happy
vision of love, strong to conceal and strong
to forget ; — of Italia, waiting by the sea.

THE END.

M'

J- ,-v' ■*;"

3M* ■ frw m ^WffiX&m

■

3 0112 045841829
