OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS

8:^3

F768;2i

V- 1

IN THE OLD PALAZZO.

Crown 8vo, cloth js. 6d. each.

The following Volumes of the Series are now ready, and can he
obtained of all Booksellers in Toto and Country, and at all
Railway Bookstalls: —

By FLORENCE MARRYAT.

MY SISTER THE ACTRESS.
A BROKEN BLOSSOM.
FACING THE FOOTLIGHTS.

HER WORLD AGAINST A LIE.
PEERESS AND PLAYER.
UNDER THE LILIES & ROSES.

MY OWN CHILD. THE HEART OF JANE WARNER

By ANNIE THOMAS.

FRIENDS AND LOVERS. | JENIFER. 1 ALLERTON TOWERS.

By LADY CONSTANCE HOWARD.

SWEETHEART AND WIFE. I MOLLIE DARLING.

MATED WITH A CLOWN. | ONLY A VILLAGE MAIDEN.

By MRS. ALEXANDER ERASER.

A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY. [ A FATAL PASSION.
By IZA DTJFFUS- HARDY.

LOVE, HONOUR AND OBEY. ] NOT EASILY JEALOUS.
ONLY A LOVE STORY.

By H. Loveth-CAMERON. By DORA RUSSELL.

A NORTH COUNTRY MAID. OUT OF EDEN.

By JEAN Middlemost.
POISONED ARROWS.

By NELLIE Fortescue HARRISON.

FOR ONE MAN'S PLEASURE.

B, Nobfl.

Gertrude FOEDE

Author of
"A Lady's Tour in Corsica," &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. 1.

LONDON :
F.V.WHITE & CO., 31, SOUTHAMPTON ST., STRAND

1885.

Kelly AND CO., GATK STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS

AND KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.

CONTENTS.

I. — The Musician

II. 1 WILL NEVER BE AN EnGLISH Mes !

III. — GooD-BiE TO Rome
IV. — " Iddio, mt Piccola ! "
V. — The Honourable Beresford
VI. — My Foreign Cousin
VII. — A Sincere Person
VIII. — A Serious Conversation
IX. — Love's Remembrance

X. — Sir Peter put down .
XI. — Good Advice
XII. — A tame Sculptor
XIII. — Two's Company, Three's None
XIV. — Ino speaks
XV. — Mr. Conway reforms

Chapter I.

THE MUSICIAN.

IT had been a lordly mansion once, long
years ago — a few hundred more or less,
what matters it in Rome ? — furnished within
with magnificence, rich without with decorative
sculpture. Even now, dirty, neglected,
and half ruinous as it. was, its facade defaced,
its courtyard defiled, the Palazzo Carborelli
shewed stately in decay.

A wide marble staircase led up inside to
indefinite heights, each floor apparently
tenanted by one or more families ; but the
mezzo-piano and the ground floor bore upon
the lintel of the door post one and the same
name — that of " Bartolucci."

Signora Bartolucci, or " Annunciata," as

VOL I 1

most of lier lodgers called lier, was a bustling
active woman of a humble condition in life,
and by no means above looking after her
numerous tenants herself. These latter were
not, as a rule, of aristocratic pretensions. In
olden days, no doubt, the stairs had echoed
to the martial tread of il signor Duce, or
I'illustrissimo Principe may have stared forth
from the windows ; but now the rooms were
chiefly occupied by men and women of artistic
pursuits — beings who rose early and slept
late, who lived frugally and paid the lightest
of rents, and through those muffled doors
might sometimes be heard flashes of brilliant
music or rich song ; or, when they were mischance
left a moment ajar, sometimes seen the
gleam of a great half painted canvas, the
vision of a ghostly lay-figure, or the gaudy
hues of scarlet and purple robes.

Few of the apartments were more bare
and cheerless than one — a long' low room —
situated on the mezzo-piano

The faded but once richly painted ceiling
seemed to mock the incongruity of the scanty
worn furniture — a narrow bedstead, half concealed

by a ragged screen, an oaken armoire
and a assistant ; and at the other end of the
room, a rickety table and one or two armchairs,
the carved wood of which was broken,
and the deep-piled velvet frayed. The stove
was not lit — it was too early in the year for
that, though a scalding might have been acceptable
enough in the damp chilliness of
this last day of November — and there was no
lamp or light of any sort to relieve the gloom
of the rapidly falling twilight. What was
the use of a lamp to a blind man ? And yet
the solitary occupant of the dreary room sat,
leaning back upon one of the crimson-cushioned
window seats, his sightless eyes
fixed upon the outside world with the intent
look of one to whom that patch of deepening
blue sky, that intricate mass of domes and
spires and roofs, were things of present vision,
not of past remembrance. Upon his knee lays
a violin, across the strings of which the long
nervous fingers of his left hand moved up
and down caressingly, ever and anon (when
unwittingly a quicker pressure made itself
felt upon the instrument), waking a half*



sounded note, that breathed like a distant
wail across the empty space.

Presently came a burst of impish laughter,
echoing from a neighbouring corridor, and
the musician's hand paused, while a slow
smile crept over his lips.

After that, a moment's silence. Then the
sound of angry voices, a sudden rush of heavy
feet along the passage, and the noise of a
scuffle carried on to the very door of the
room. Finally the same childish voice, before
raised in merriment, now choking with passionate
anger :

Accidente ! " it cried furiously, " io ti
ohio ! "

But before another word could be uttered,
the musician had laid aside his violin, and
with quick, light steps had crossed the room
and opened the door. One hand laid firmly
upon the girl's quivering mouth, checked the
torrent of anger rushing forth, whilst the
other pulled her, still fiercely struggling, across
the threshold, and shut to the door. Then
Bernard Cortauld loosed his hold, and the
slight figure fell sobbing in a frenzy of rage

upon the marble floor. He, meanwhile, returned
as silently as lie had come to his seat
beside the window, once more taking his
instrument upon his knee.

And presently, without heeding the child's
sobs, he laid his bow across the strings ; and
the twilight was filled with rich harmonies
and dreamy cadences that seemed to speak
with human words. For lonsf he continued
playing, his thin figure swaying back and
forwards in a perfect fellowship with his
violin, his worn face wearing: more and more
the wrapt look of absorption belonging to
one whose spirit has fled away to unknown
worlds upon the wings of music. And
soon the childish crying died away, and
she rose, coming gradually nearer and nearer
as if fascinated, her small dark face, upon
which the tears were scarcely dried, all
aglow with an eager appreciation. Child as
she was, she felt, as others feel, how directly
the pulsations of the violin vibrate to these
human hearts of ours. Yet the music of
heaven is likened only to the playing of harps.
The strings of the harp speak a message of

peace, of unalloyed sweetness — those of the
violin of a passionate yearning. The former
perhaps seem the fittest accompaniment of a
life of perfect calm, unruffled neither by an
uncertain future nor the memories of a painful
past. But, so long as human beings still exist
upon this earth, the most congenial sympathy
of things inanimate will be found by many
in the wild throbbing of the violin, and
the restless motion of the sea.

Night had fallen when at length the
musician, with a sigh, laid aside his bow ;
and for a few moments there was silence in
the room. Then the child crept a little closer,
and half timidly laid her rough head upon his
shoulder. He let it so lie for a minute ; then
put up his hand and abruptly raised the
drooping face.

Benedetta," he asked, " who taught you
to swear ? "

A momentary silence — then a shame-faced
answer in low tones :

I am sorry. Maestro ! "

Who taught it you ? " he repeated.

"I don't know — Pippo perhaps. Forgive

me, Maestro." She was trembling and drawing
towards him again, like a chidden dog.
What put you in such a passion ? "
Pippo was below in the court-yard, and I
had my little watering-pot — I had just been
watering my flowers, and I poured a little, justa
few drops, upon his head for fun. It was nothing,
Maestro, not a spoonful ; but Pippo is
so spiteful, and he looked up and called me an
English cow. So then I was angry, and I
threw down my pot at him, and — and it hit
him on the head. And he yelled, and ran and
told 'Nunciata, and 'Nunciata came upstairs
running, and struck me two or three times.
So then — and then "

Ah ! " said the old man, " so then you
cursed her ? "

'Nunciata always takes Pippo's part
against me. Maestro "

And Eaffaelino takes yours against his
brother. They are both her sons."

The child was silent.

Do you know what ' accidente ' means,
Detta ? "

No," softly and hesitatingly.

It means ' may the great God let Annunciation's
body be killed suddenly in this world,
and her soul lost in the next ! ' Now, Piccola,
you know. Will you say it again ? "

No, never I never again ! "

His fingers began to stroke the dark rough
head, " And what will you do to show you
are sorry ? "

"I will beg 'Nunciata's pardon. And I
will ask Our Lady and all the Saints "

Peste ! " cried the old man ; and Bene-delta
paused, startled.

Who told you to pray to the Saints ? " he
asked.

Why, 'Nunciata "

Don't pray to them, child ; pray to God.
You are not a Pianist."

Her eyes opened wide, and her lips
quivered.

But I don't know anvthino^ about God,
Maestro. May 'net I even pray to the Satis
Maria ? "

What do you know about the Saints,
child?"

Oh, a great deal. 'Xunciata has a lovely red

Look full of them that she lends me to read
sometimes ; and Father Pietro tells me stories
about them."

So Father Pietro comes here, does he ? "

Oh yes, often. Sometimes to supper with
'Nunciata and Ino and me. When you are
away at the Opera, you know."

There was a long pause, whilst the sightless
eyes looked thoughtfully out into the land of
retrospection and the child sat trying to read
his face in the darkness.

Are you angry. Maestro mio ? " she asked
at length timidly.

"iNo, Piccola, no." Then he gathered
himself together and sat upright.

How old are you, Benedetta ? "

Nearly twelve. Maestro, now — so '
sa's.

Nearly twelve ! Who would have thought
it!" he muttered to himself. "Ten years
since Campbell died ! It seems impossible !
Detta," he continued abruptly, " sou do not
remember your father ? "

Oh no, Maestro ; how could I ? I was
only a baby, you know, when he died."

"True. Did I ever tell you anything about
him ? "

Only that he was an Englishman. Butin
a low, awe-struck tone, " 'Nunciata says he
was very beautiful — tall and fair "

Cortauld sighed quickly. " As beautiful as
one of his own statues," he murmured, " and
almost as fragile. He was a sculptor, Detta ;
did you know that ? "

Yes, yes. But tell me all about him.
Why did he die ? "

He died," replied her companion slowly,
of a broken heart. He had genius without
perseverance or faith in himself ; and genius
at all times is a doubtful benefit to its
possessor. He was too fitful, too erratic, too
unknown to be successful, and too sensitive a
man to push his way against adverse circumstances
— one of the sort that shrink away at
the first sign of neglect or misapplication,
and break their heart over the first cold or
cruel word. Ah well ! the world naturally
holds in ho-her esteem that which it understands
than that which is beyond its ken. For,
mind you, genius may give birth to grand

ideas, but often it fails to develop them into
living works. And the fame is reaped rather
by the hand that executes than by the mind
which conceives."

He was speaking absently, more to himself
than to the girl beside him, but her eyes were
fixed upon him with an earnestness which sat
strangely upon the childish features.

She touched him lightly on the arm, and he
started from his dreaming?.

Was the world cruel — to him ? "

Only by denying him that appreciation
which was his due, until too late. But your
mother was very dear to him. Had it not
been for her death, he might perhaps have
down-lived and over-mastered an unlucky
fate. For she was his strength, his support ;
she at least believed in him with all her heart
and soul. When you, my Covering, however,
were but little more than a year old, she died
of a sudden virulent fever ; and from that day
poor JN'ed's hope, his very inspiration, seemed
to desert him, and he faded slowly away.
They called it decline — ah well ! so it was ;
but it was the decline of a life from which the

sap has been drawn — just the withering-up of
a nature never made to stand the wear and
tear of a world full of suffering and disappointment."


A sigh came bursting from the child's lips
a sigh out of the depths of a heart too full
to speak, and her small brown fingers clenched
themselves as if in impotent desire to avenge
the ill-used dead.

Cortauld put out his hand and softly
touched her face.

I wonder if you resemble him him ? " he
muttered.

Oh, no ! " she exclaimed almost fiercely ;
He was beautiful, and good, and fair. I am
black, and ugly — and bad ! "

I do not think you can be ugly," mused
the old man, drawing his hand across her
face. " Your profile is straight and firm like
his."

Ah ! but I have thick black hair, not
lovely and golden, and great dark eyes "

Then you must be like your mother. She
was a beautiful woman, Benedetta, and a noble
one, although not one of the rich or well-born

of the earth. Your father was of a good race ;
and long years ago, when he came to settle in
l{ome, left, I believe, grand relations who were
angry enough at his choice of a profession. But
sour mother was the only daughter of a dear
old mutual friend of ours, Benevento Brandon
by name. He kept a curiosity shop there at
the corner of the Via Tre Fontaine. He never
sold much. He was more of a virtuoso thana
merchant, and loved collecting relics
rather than parting with them — a true
artist, but not a man to make much money.
It went to his heart to sell the bits of
antiquities he had been at such pains to
gather together, and I have known him hide
away in a corner some pet trifle of vertu for
fear anyone should take a fancy to it and
want to buy it. He could give your mother
little or nothing in the way of a dower, so it
was but a menage of love and lentils that your
father had. But Olinta Brandon was a woman
to brighten the darkest life and to make even
poverty beautiful. Your father did wisely in
his choice, though I doubt if those relations
of his up in the north would have thought so.

But they probably never heard of his marriage,
nor of your existence, my Piccola."

I don't want them to hear of me," she
whispered confidingly.

Poor as they were, however, I doubt if
ever a mother looked with greater joy upon
the face of her babe than did yours ; and,
as it had been agreed upon that the child
was to be named after her father, you were
called Benedetta."

Is my grandfather alive yet. Maestro ? "

0, no, child. He died years ago, in his
little room, at the back of the curiosity shop.
His collection has been sold, and Brandon's
name removed from the door long since.

There was another short silence ; then he
spoke again ; it seemed with something of an
effort.

Detta, sit up ; I want to tell you more.
Have you ever thought of leaving Italy and
'Nunciata ? "

She began to tremble.

"Leaving Eome, Maestro? But you
would come, too ? "

Do you love me then, Piccola ? "

The little cramped-up figure suddenly slid
down upon the floor, and bending low, laid
its lips upon his feet.

"That much. Maestro! 0, much, much
more than that ! "

Come back, Detta ; give me your attention.
When your father died, his works
were all sold, and they realized a fair sum
of money. For, with the cruel irony of fate,
so frequent in this world, men's tongues
began lustily to praise the dead artist whose
grave had been first dug by their contempt.
Had you been penniless, little one, you would
always have had a roof to shelter you, if
nothing more — for that I promised joiiv
father upon his death-bed, and you would
have been welcome for his sake. For, from
the first day I saw him, I loved him — in the
years when I, too, had e3^es to see life's
clouds and sunshine, as well as to hear its
harmonies and discords."

He paused a moment.

But after that sale, you were by no means
penniless. 'Nunciata, who, as you know, had
been your mother's servant, was glad to stop

on and take, as best she could, a mother's
place towards you ; and she has done her
duty faithfully, for she is an honest soul,
though sometimes rouse. But the sum of
money is almost untouched, for you have
cost, as yet, little or nothing ; a child like
you, content with simple fare, and I fear,"
and he touched the coarse material of her
dress doubtfully, " almost in rags. But I
must do my duty towards you, Piccola. You
must not be allowed to grow up ragged, and
untaught and wild ; you must go to school,
and be civilized, and learn to know something
of sour own people and language.
Are you aware that you are an Englishwoman,
my Detta ? "

No, no ! " she exclaimed, breathlessly
I am Italian — Eoman ! "

But your father was English."

She was silent.

And before his death, he told me his
Welshes concerning you. He had changed his
mind then, and was sorry he said, for your
sake, that he had so cut himself off from his
relations. They were not really hard or unjust,

lie thought. He had been impulsive and self-opinionated
as a youth, and in too great a hurry
to resent interference and to shake himself
free from control. It was, perhaps, natural
that they should have treated his artistic
schemes but coldly, and he admitted that the
many years of estrangement that had since
ensued, were due chiefly to his own proud
spirit, which shrank from reconciliation with
those whom he felt, with bitter humiliation,
might point to his unsuccessful career as the
fulfilment of their own predictions. But,
under the shadow of death, pride is apt to
melt away, and family bonds to renew their
force ; and your father, Detta, began to think
more of your welfare and less of his own
independence. Old associations began to
press upon liim^ ; he began to regret the ties
he had flung away ; and I think his heart
yearned after his old home, and his childhood's
days. ' Do not let her grow up an
Italian,' he said to me, speaking of you.
Some day, when she is bigger, send her to
England, if you can. Write to my relations ;
perhaps they will be good to my child for my
VOL. I. 2

sake — it lias been more my fault than theirs
I never could stand a word of interference.'
But, Piccola, time flies fast, and the years-have
gone over our heads more quickly than
I thought. You are growing up into a big
girl, and we must fulfil your father's wishes.
I must write to these relations of sours,
whose addresses he gave me. Heaven grant
that they are not all dead and buried ! But
we need not beg from them, at any rate as
yet ; there is money enough and plenty, of
your own, to send you to school for many a
long day, and teach you many things. And
after that, if they do not want you, why then,
Piccola, we shall have done as he wished, and
you can but return to your old Maestro, to
keep his home for him until he dies."

There was no answer, but he felt the heaving
of the small bosom pressed against his
own.

So now, Detta, you must be brave and
wish to go to England, will you not ? "

But you will come too, Maestro ? "

I cannot take you there, my child. How
could a blind man ? I must find someone to

go ^vitli you. As for me, I shall, of course,
remain in Eome."

A bitter cry rang through the long, empty
room.

I must go alone ? Not without you,
Maestro. Oh, not without you ! "

I thought my Piccola was brave ? "

But I love you. Maestro ; I love you ! "
And flinging her arms around him, she burst
forth into passionate weeping.

^5^^^~^~-^ll)?-2r^^

9*

I WILL NEVER BE AN ENGLISH Meet !

'I'lWO months had passed. A bright January

X sun was shining down on the stone-paved

courtyard of the old Palazzo. An open arcade,

supported by columns, ran round the yard,

I id beneath this, perched on a rough stone

fool, sat Delta, swinging her feet impatiently,

lid paying but little attention to the piece

i' coarse knitting which had been placed in

:^r hands.

Annunciata, a stout comely woman of the

.i.ldle class, dressed after the fashion of her

)townspeople, hurried in and out through thea

ions open doors, intent-upon household

res, while Pippo was busily engaged in

using two kittens at play in an adjacent

rner of the courtyard.

When will Ino come ? Is it not near

noon ? " asked Detta for the third or court .
time.

Dio mio ! Can lie not tell by the leigh:
of the snn ? I have no time to be alway.
running to look at the clock," W3.s Annnn
ciata's somewhat impatient response ; whilst
Pippo paused in his whistling, remark inij
scornfully :

Covering ! Can she not do without her
sweetheart for a few minutes longer ? "

Detta bent down, and, deliberately seizing
upon the missile nearest to her hand, flung it
at Pippo's head. He, knowing by experience
that a bunch of uncooked onions is apt to be
disagreeably hard, ducked adroitly, and at
the same moment Annunciata darted out and
arrested the girl's hand.

santa Maria ! " die exclaimed ; " dost
thou think vegetables are bought merely to
be knocked about here and there in thy silly
fooling[ ? "

But the next moment the scene changed, asa
youth entered through the open doorway
leading out into the street.

He was tall and slim, and moved with

that peculiar grace so common amongst
Italians.

His features too sere Italian in their classic
beauty Liquid southern eyes looked out
from the low white forehead surrounded by
clustering: black curls, origins; fire and expression
to a face which otherwise, with its
clear cut profile and finely moulded lips,
might have been almost too statue-like.

At his coming Pippo ceased to tease the
cats, whilst Detta flung down her knitting,
and ran towards him with a joyful exclamation.


I thought you would never be here," she
exclaimed ; "it is so dull without you. Your
mother will not let me go out by myself."

My mother is right," said the boy gravely
putting his arm with familiar affection around
her shoulders. " A little maid like you should
not ramble about the streets of Eome alone."

Come then, quick," she said, " and let us
have dinner ; then we will start at once for
our walk."

Eaffaelino dived into the dark kitchen, and
presently returned, bearing two basins of

steaming soup, wliicli lie placed upon a stone
table at one end of the arcade.

Here we are," said he. " We will have
our dinner out in the sun, Piccola, will we
not ? "

The soup was succeeded by a few vegetables,
then by a plate of maccaroni, and accompanied
by a bottle of the red country wine.
It was a simple repast, soon over, but seemed
quite sufficient to Benedetta Campbell, who
was as yet inexperienced in the carnivorous
appetites of her own people.

As they rose up to go, Annunciata's sharp
voice made itself heard from within.

Echo I " it said, " no dawdling about
after Ino has Prone ; hearest thou, Detta ?
Thou must come straight home. There is no
end of this English finery to be tried on thee,
Saints help us ! What is the use of it, / cannot
see. To deck a child out like a duchess,
in order to go to their country of England,
where, so they tell me, the sun never shines,
and where indeed it is daylight but half the
year round. But there, the Maestro's money
burns a hole in his pocket!"

Thou wilt strut about like a young parrot
among thy new relations," remarked Pippo
teazingl}^ " Thou wilt be an English Meet
then. But thou must not throw raw onions
any more at people's heads, or thy friends
maybe, will turn thee out into the streets."

I weill never be an English Meet 1 " cried
the girl crimsoning.

Oh yes, thou wilt," pursued her tormentor
; " thou wilt learn to talk that English,
which sounds as if a man had swallowed his
own tongue and where choking with it in his
throat, and thou wilt become affected and
mincing, and wilt say : ' Oh, sho-king ! ' and
wilt walk like this ! " And Pippo proceeded
to give an illustration of his idea of the
English feminine mode of progression.

Detta's eyes where full of tears of mortification.
But Pippo's career across the courtyard
was brought to an abrupt conclusion by
the application of his brother's foot to his
person. He fell somewhat heavily upon
the stone pavement, and picked himself up
howling.

Ah Dio! " exclaimed Annunciata, rumiin<T^

out, " when will you two have done quarrelling
? " She glanced towards Benedetta.
Altro ! " she said half to herself, " but it will
not be a bad thing when the girl goes home
to her own people, for it is about her most
times that they find cause to fight."

Come, Detta," said Eaffaelino, holding out
his hand, without noticing either his brother's
bewailing or his mother's remarks.

But Detta, after a moment's pause, ran back
and stuffed something into Pippo's hand.

It is a caramel which Ino brought me,"
she whispered, " but I don't want it. Don't
cry, Pippo. J am sorry he hurt you."

'J hen she ran on hastily, and putting her
hand in Ino's, passed with him out of the
courtyard. The old palazzo which was their
home, was situated up one of the many side
streets leading out of the Corso, and they were
soon making their way down this latter
thoroughfare. The narrow pavements overflowed,
and the bright sunshine gleamed upon
the merry crowds that jostled each other up
and down in front of the long line of jewel
shops.

A ragged, smiling boy stood at a corner
playing a fiddle, surrounded by a circle of
dancing children, a group of soldiers was
marching briskly past, and a carriage full of
tall Englishwomen with Bedecked on their
knees and glasses on their noses, was patiently
tr3dng at a snail's pace to make its way
through the heedless pedestrians.

Guard ! " cried the coachman, loudly
cracking his whip, whilst the Englishwomen
bent forward in evident surprise and some
disgust to observe how slowly and carelessly
these easy-going southerners moved out of the
way. And Ino smiled slightly as he saw
Detta glance towards the carriage and its
occupants, and felt-her grasp tighten upon
his hand.

He knew well enough what was in the
child's mind. She was still silent as they went
up the steps leading to the Capitol, and passed
onwards towards the Palatine, between the
lines of those grand historic ruins which had
their birth in the period of the greatest and
the most corrupt magnificence the world has
ever known, and which still speak even to the

prosaic nineteenth century Vv^itli a romantic
force claimed by few other ruins.

The sunshine lay golden upon the broken
columns of the Forum, and fell upon the little
lichens that hung from the great grey wall
surrounding the Caesar's palaces, ruthlessly
displaying every rent and crack in the timeworn
masonry, the architects of which had
passed away into dust nearly two thousand
years ago, leaving behind them no personal
immortality, but only a record which should
defy Time and point for ages with a silent
finger to the pages of the past — to their story
of crime, of luxury, of mad splendours, and of
barbarous triumphs. On, under the great
archway, gleaming white, down the hill
towards the Coliseum, the red outlines of
whose vast circle stood out against a cloudless
sky — on, under the second archway, down the
shady avenue, and out through the Porta San
Sebastian upon the high road.

Then at last the young man broke silence,
using as he spoke the second person singular,
so picturesque and pretty in the Italian
tongue, but which sounds harsh and unnatural

to English ears, and therefore shall not be
translated here.

Detta," he said, " do you know who is to
take you to England next week ? "

"No," she replied wistfully, looking up
into his face.

I, Detta. What do you think of that ? "

Oh, I am glad— so glad ! "

The Maestro is very kind, Detta ; his generosity
is almost too much. What do you
think he said to me last night ? lie called
me into his room. ' Ino,' he said, ' I want to
have a talk with you ; ' and then he asked me
if I would take you to London. ' I am blind
you know, Ino,' said he ; * I could not take
care of the child or myself, and I have no one
else to send. But I have moneys, a little sum
that I do not want. I know I can trust her
with you, Ino ; and if you like to go, there is
enough for you to stop a few days after sou
have left her at her school, and to go about
and see something of the wonders of our o-reat
English capital.' Is it not good of him, my
Piccola ? " continued the boy, his eyes sparkling.
" London is full of sights, they sav. 1

shall go to all the picture galleries, and
observe the English style of art."

It is very nice for you," she said, a little
sadly. " And before you go back, you will
come again and see me once more, will you
not, Vino?"

That I will. Carina ; but cheer up, little
one, perhaps this English life mays be better
than you expect."

Benedetta clasped her hands with a gesture
of despair. " I hate it all, Ino ! I shall never
be an English Meet. I feel as if my heart
would break dien I am so far away from
Eome, and with no one to speak a word tome
of my beautiful Italy ! "

We will not forget you, little one. You
must write to us. The Maestro and I shall
miss you sadly. But, who knows ? Some day
perhaps you will come over to see us, a
grand young lady dressed like those that
we see every winter in our churches and
galleries, but with the Piccola's heart beating
as ever in your bosom. Ah, how pleased
would the old Maestro be ! Or perhaps, ina
few years, when I am a great sculptor.

and have made for myself fame and name,
I shall once more re-visit this rich, clever,
foggy England of yours, and present myself
to call upon the Meet Campbell, who was my
Piccola in days gone by. But perhaps she
will be too grand to know me then ! "

She flung away his hand passionately.

Ino, Ino," she said, with a sob in her
voice, " how can you taunt me so ! "

"I did not mean it, little one ; I know
your goodness of heart," and he stooped and
kissed the quivering, childish features.

EafTaello Bartolucci was, as he had said, a
sculptor, or rather hoped to become one.
During the last year only he had been promoted
from studio attendant to workman at
the rooms of a Eoman artist of position. He
had however displayed considerable talent in
his mode of executing one or two little bits of
modelling of his own composition, and his
master had been heard to express a favourable
opinion as to his merits. The young
man's whole heart was in the profession, and
nature had endowed him with the imaginative
mind of the artist-creator. His somewhat

poetical disposition was of the kind that continually
indulges in day-dreams far above and
beyond its surroundings, whilst his manners
and appearance had but little affinity with
those of the class from which he was sprung.
As he walked along now, the small head, with
the clear-cut, refined profile, proudly thrown
back, the slight young figure straight as a
poplar — picturesquely dressed in his short
velveteen jacket, a crimson sash around his
waist, and the little jaunty cap set far back
upon his clustering curls, — many an eye
turned towards him approvingly in the crowded
streets. For who appreciates the charm of
personal beauty more than the Italian himself,
accustomed as he is to the highest standard
in every outline of both the nature and the
art that surround him from childhood, as
well as in the features of his own most beautiful
race ?

Good-bye TO ROME.

TIME is supposed to fly with rapidity prior
to any dreaded event. But this is not
always the case when the trouble looming
before us is that of a severance from old ties,
from a loved home. Every hour in such a
case seems marked by the consciousness of
some fact or sentiment which hitherto has
passed us by unnoticed, and now for the first
time strikes us, leaving upon mind and
memory its indelible mark, gimpl}^ because
we are aware that it is the last time that a
like sentiment will be experienced, or a like
fact have part in our daily lives.

This was the case with Benedetta Campbell.
Naturally a child of fervid temperament, the
last week of her stays in Eome, crowded as it
was with varying thought and emotion,
seemed to her to comprise the incidents and

experience of any former year of her life,
and to be of an unnatural length. Notwithstanding
her strong high spirit and innate
love of adventure, this visit to England
appeared to her in the light of a forbidding
dream ; and she felt far more grief at leaving
the land and the friends she loved so well,
than excitement at the prospect of foreign
scenes and so entire a change of life — refusing
at first, with obstinate pertinacity, to
look upon the new arrangement as anything
more than a purely temporary one.

It was the afternoon of Benedetta's last day
in the Eternal City. Her frugal dinner with
the Maestro was just over, and the child sat
on silently, finding it as difficult to relieve bywords
the sorrow that was weighing down
her spirits, as, shortly before, she" had found
it to choke down her mid-day meal. Her dark
eyes rested wistfully upon his face, and it was
perhaps as well for Bernard Cortauld, whose
heart was tender to a fault, that he could not
see that pitiful look ; or his resolution might
have failed him as regarded the duty of sending
his little companion to a foreign land.

VOL. I. 3

"Detta," lie said holding out a hand towards
her, " let us co for a last stroll together
-round the old place. We will visit all our
favourite haunts, and you shall be the Maestro
's eyes as usual."

In another minute or two they were walking,
hand in hand, down the quiet street.

Which way shall we go ? " he enquired,
as they paused at the entrance to the Corso.
To the Pincian hill ? The band plays there
to-day."

Yes," she said absently. " Ah ! " as a
half sob caught in her throat, " and to the
Castel St. Angelo afterwards."

So they set forth, the blind man walking
with firm tread and upright bearing, which
showed many years' acquaintance both with
the difficulties of his infirmity and with the
narrow paths and crowded wa^^s of I'ome ;
the child guiding his steps and making way
for him with a tender anxiety that caught the
attention of many a bystander. The bright
sun was gleaming down on marble fountain
and stone gateway as they passed through
the Piazza del Populo, and toiled up the steep

hill leading to the gardens of the Pinch,
where, under the shelter of the withered and
leafless trees, the band was breathing out
softest strains upon the still, half-frosty air.
Notwithstanding the cold, a line of carriages
was drawn up in front of the performers ; while
a crowd of gaily dressed people of all ranks
and nations, such as are better seen perhaps
at such a time in Eome than in any other
European capital, paced slowly to and fro.

The sunshine and the music had somewhat
restored Detta's spirits ; and, as they threaded
their way in and out among the crowd, or
paused to lean against the stone parapet in
front, she began her usual commentary on
the passers-by.

The Principe is here to-day. Maestro,
with his four-in-hand ; do you not hear it
passing now ? And there is the Marchese della
Eobbia, seated as usual with his three pomerania
in the carriage beside him. And there
goes the Signora Bertolini, who paints so beautifully,
dressed in her crimson gown, with her
hair all down her back ; and, walking with
her, is that stram>'e Englishwoman who wears

a man's list and jacket, and whom they say
is so wild and odd. Ah ! and here comes ' La
Graziella,' who sings at the Opera ; and there
are two gentleman with her, I think belonging
to the orchestra. She is nodding and smiling
to us, Maestro ; " and at this remark, the thin
white hand of the Englishman, now violin
player at the Eoman Theatre, went up to his
shabby hat, which he pulled off with an air
combining an odd mixture of Italian grace
and the old-fashioned courtliness of his boyhood's
teaching.

Maestro," she said suddenly turn round
now and let the sunlight fall upon your face.
The sunset is beginning to crimson the sky, and
0, our city is so beautiful ! San Pietro looks
cold and grey rising out of the golden mist —
you can only just see his dome — but the spires
of the other churches gleam as if they were
made of metal, and all the houses seem cut
out in black paper, their outlines stand so
sharp against the bloodred clouds."

Go on," said Cortauld, as the child paused,
for he loved to hear any one recall to his
memory, however faintly, the charms of that

unrivalled city which had from youth been
his ideal of solemn beauty and of grandeur,
and which he worshipped with all the
passionate enthusiasm of an artistic
nature.

But there was no reply Detta caught her
breath with a suppressed sob, and her companion
knew instinctively that she had laid
her head down on the stone wall in front of
them. He silently stroked the little hand that
lay in his ; but not another word was spoken
as they began descending the hill, where all
was still bright and roseate ; then plunging
into the grey gloom of the shadowed streets.
They had a good walk before them ; but the
feet of both man and child were well used to
treading; the rouo-h, uneven streets, and were
not easily tired.

When at length they stood upon the bridge,
the sun had already set, and only a few pink
gleams showed here and there in streaks between
the tall grey houses. The river rolled
by sullenly — that yellow, turbid Tiber which
carries in its silent breast the memories of so
many heroic deeds, and of the historic displays

of SO many thousand years. In the centre of
the bridge they paused and looked over. The
old man listened to the sound of the swelling
waters sadly enough ; but the child soon
raised her eyes towards the great angel wdiicli
spread its dark wings so mystically overhead
in the gathering twilight. For sears that
angel had been to Detta the object of a
half superstitious love and reverence.

It had never seemed to her as a thing of
art, conceived by the brain and carved outby
the tool of mortal man; to her it alw^aj^s
stood as the loving guardian of the city, keeping,
watch alike by silent night and noisy day,
hovering above in the pure blue ether, untainted
by the breath of sin and corruption
which rose up beneath, and gazing with a
calm pity and silent love upon every human
unit inhabiting those high-storied houses in
the many twisted streets.

She could not well have put her idea into
words, but this was the sum and substance of
it ; and it is possibly one not unknown to
other minds which have dwelt beneath the
shadow of this poetic, old-world city. To

Delta this was the bitterest good-bye in all
Eome ; and, as she lowered her eyes slowly
from the outspread wings and clearly chiselled
figure, once more moving onwards with her
companion, they Averse full of unshed, tears
brought thither by that fanciful imagination
which made it appear to her as if she
were leaving her ethereal protector behind
her.

It was nearly dark as they penetrated
down one of their three streets leading towards
the Piazza, and stood at length before
San Pietro. The great square was almost
deserted — on the road carriages had passed
them driving swiftly and conveying freights of
foreigners muffled up in shawls and cloaks,
and holding hand kerchiefs to their mouths —
and the moon, which had already risen,
silvered the great grey dome, and laid the
black shadows of the columns in dark bars
across each wide arcade. Neither spoke
much as they paced slowly round the
silent fountain, and through the hollow-sounding
colonnades, or sat for a few moments
upon the broad flight of steps leading

up to the great cathedral, listening to the
hushed voices of the city, as they made
their way, softened by distance, into the
deserted Piazza. Silent still, they returned
at length through noisy street and crowded
bye-way, past crumbling ruin and giant arch,
back to the brilliantly-lit Corso and the
darkened courtyard of the old Palazzo.

But, once again in his own apartment,
Cortauld called the child towards him.

Detta," he said, " I am going to tell you
about your relations and where they live. It
is right you should know something about
them before you leave us. They have not

behaved unkindly to you. In future " he

paused, and his voice trembled a little — " my
Piccola must look to these relations as to her
best and nearest friends, and will, I hope, not
find it difficult to love them. You have, you
know, little one, two aunts. Both have
written to me expressing kindly interest in
you. One, Lady Dumbarton, is a Scotch-woman,
and your father's half sister only. I
fancy she must have been greatly his senior.
The other, Mrs. Wilding, lives in England,

and was your father's own sister. It is lie
who has chosen the school for you. Both she
and Lady Dumbarton invite you to spend part
of your Midsummer holidays with them ; and
Mrs. Wilding adds that she will be willing for
you to pass every Christmas with herself and
her family. She, Mrs. Wilding, writes kindly
and affectionately of your father, and says had
she heard of you sooner, she would have been
glad to do what she could for her brother's
child. So you see, after all, my Piccola, that
you are not going lonely to a foreign land, but
to kith and kin, who will, I hope, welcome
you and soon love you for your own
sake."

Benedetta tightened her hold upon him,
but made no reply.

I only hope," said the old man musingly,
that I have not been remiss in keeping you
away so long from your own people. I was
misled by poor Ned's prejudices. I thought
it more than probable that the'' might refuse
to recognise you ; but now all is well, Piccola.
You must try and learn as fast as you can,
and become less and less of a little savage, so

that wlieii Midsummer comes, your aunts may
not be ashamed of their brother's little girl."

Then, seeing still that the child made no
response, he gently dropped her hand and
took up his instrument. When, an hour later
SafFaello came in, he was still playing. The
lamp, placed upon the bare wood table, shed
a dim light across the apartment, which fell
upon the thin features of the player, illumined
by the visionary smile which rarely failed
to wake at the sound of his violin. It fell
also upon a young figure, lying face downwards
upon the ud carpeted floor, and still
quivering with long-indulged sobs.

Eaffaelino stooped over the little heap of
childish sorrow, and lifting it up, placed it on
the seat beside him

Caressing," he whispered tenderly, " do
not cr}^ so. Do you not know how it will
grieve the Maestro if he hears you ? "

The child dried her eyes submissively, and
made a strong effort to compose herself.
When at leno'tli the last soft hiodi chord had
died away into space, the musician held out
his hand towards her, and she rose, and,

coming to him, laid her head upon his
shoulder.

Thou wilt hear much beautiful music in
England, my Piccola," he said. " The common
people do not love it and take part in it
as they do here in song-loving Italy ; but
every great artiste comes to the huge rich
city of London, where there are always so
many people to appreciate talent, and willing
to pay for it."

Benedetta heaved a long, deep sigh.

'' I shall hear none like yours, Maestro."
" Oh, 5^es, you will, little one ; far better
than mine."

It will not sound the same to me." And
here she nearly broke down again.

Cortauld put his arm around her.

Poveretta ! " he said tenderly, *' do not
fret. We shall see each other attain some
day, please God."

When I am grown up, Maestro, and have
learnt all my lessons, then I mays come back
and live with you again ? "

Who knows ? who knows ? " he muttered
vaguely to himself.

It is a long, long time," lie sighed.

^' It will seem to go by quicker after a bit'*
he said.

But in his heart he felt how unlikely it was
that Benedetta Campbell, after her five or six
years' English training, should ever return
from her father's country and relations to 1)6
his adopted child as of yore in the old
Palazzo.

^^''ASM®^-^^

ADJ)IO, MY riCCOLA ! "

Nearly a week had passed. lienedetta
had now been several days at her
English school. She found, the time pass
much more quickly than she had expected.
The new life was so totally different from anything
she had before experienced, and incident
succeeded incident with such startling rapidity,
that to one of her vivacious and intelligent
disposition, little room was left for any feelings
but those of interest and amazement, and she
had as yet been almost too excited to give
way to her anticipated home sickness.

Her schoolfellows, teachers, and the existence
they led, were so many curious puzzles
to her, while she was undoubtedly as great an
enigma to them. As yet her companions had
not fairly made up their minds whether to

like or dislike her. At present they were inclined
to regard her with that half antipathetic
wonder with which a wild bird mif^ht
be expected to be greeted by the inmates of a
careful of tame canaries.

Her teachers were divided between the
annoyance and perplexity caused by her want
of civilisation, and a certain attraction that
most of them felt for the wistful-eyed, original
little creature. So far, Benedetta's scholastic
career could scarcely be said to have been a
success. She seemed to have employed herself
in tumbling, so to speak, out of one
scrape into another. She had already outraged
the local proprieties on almost every
point, and broken every rule in the establishment
; and it was only on account of her evident
ignorance of all social laws, and owinsr
to the excuse offered for her shortcomings by
the difficulty of understanding her or making
lier understand, that she had not fallen into
dire disgrace. The child knew a little English,
which Bernard Cortauld had been at pains to
teach her ; but it was of a very broken and
inefficient kind, and could by no means carry

her through the requirements of the day. It
was inadvisable, too, to encourage her as yet
in its public display, she having already, on
more than one occasion, convulsed the whole
school by her peculiar accent and ridiculous
choice of words.

This morning, for the first time, the little
Italian, as the girls called her, had appeared
in a new li^^ht, having been sim:j;led out for
commendation. It was during the singing
class, when Benedetta's full, clear tones and
exact ear had contrasted favourably with the
thin, reedy notes and false harmonies of many
of her companions. On being questioned,
too, she had proved herself, notwithstanding
her broken English, to have a knowledge
of the science of music, unusual at her age,
and which utterly distanced her schoolfellows.
The shining master's approbation, however,
had not elated Detta as it probably would
have done many of her companions. She
was a child little affected as yet by praise or
blame, except from those she loved. She had
neither ambition nor conceit, and the lightest
expressed wish of the Maestro or Eaffaell>

recurring to her memory, lead more power
to move her than the strongest opinions of
those strangers now surrounding her.

It was now afternoon, and, notwithstanding
being the month of February, bright and
fairly warm. The girls were all assembled in
the garden, previous to their afternoon walk,
for which the presiding genius, one of
the English governesses, had not as yet
arrived. A little wooden verandah spread
along one side of the house under the schoolroom
windows ; and at this point, an
animated scene, of which Benedetta was
the central fissure, was o^oino^ on. The child,
who was surrounded by a circle of her companions,
was engaged in executing a campagna
dance, perhaps of a more lively than
decorous nature, accompanying it at the same
time with snatches of a shrill canzonnetta.
Her schoolfellows were looking on, not quite
sure whether to applaud or be scandalised,
when suddenly she paused with a cry of
delight, dashed through the circle, and flew
across the lawn. She had seen a well-known
figure coming down the drive, and was rushing

towards it. The next moment, the assembled
schoolgirls saw her fling herself into the
arms of a tall youth, liucfOTno him, and
almost crying with joy over him. Vino
lauf]^hed and reddened a little, observing the
many curious faces gazing towards them
with undisguised amazement, as he took her
hand, and together they walked down the
drive.

My Piccola is not a bit more staid as
yet, I see," he remarked in his own tonsure.
And yet, Detta, you look quite a young
lady with that grand flounced dress, and
your hair twisted up in the English style.
You see, little one, I have kept my word, and
come to say good-bye to you once more before
I go."

She looked up tearfully into his face.

Is it the last time, Ino ? Do you leave
tomorrow ? "

I return tomorrow. And so those are
your schoolfellows, carina ? They are pretty
signorine, but they are inquisitive," and he
blushed again slightly. For in Italy, youths
of seventeen are sometimes possessed of their
VOL. T. 4

share of modesty, and are not always case-hardened
men of the world.

They were now approaching the front door ;
and at this moment, a carriage drove rapidly
past, and drew up before them. Out of it
stepped a stout, good-looking lady of some
forty-five summers, who stared hard at the
couple, as she entered the house.

Must we go in ? " enquired Detta, wistfully,
seeing that her companion was about
to follow.

"I must be polite to the esteemed lady,
thy teacher," said Eaffaello ; " and then I
will request permission for thee to take a
walk with me*'

Poor ignorant Ino and Detta ! They
little suspected with what astonishment such
a proposal would be received, nor how
impossible it was, according to the laws
of the Modes and Persians, as held at
Somerville Lawn, to permit one of its
inmates, however juvenile, to be seen walking
out with an acquaintance of the opposite
sex.

When the pair entered the drawing-room,

still hand-in-hand, they found themselves in
the presence of the stout, comely visitor,
earnestly conversing with Miss Horton, the
head of the establishment. The latter glanced
up, and frowned a little at first in astonishment
upon the foreign-looking young man.
But no one, not even an elderly schoolmistress,
could glance twice at the face of
Eaffaello Bartolucci, without succumbing to
the fascination of its singular beauty. The
innate grace, too, of his moments, struck
both ladies, as he bowed low, unable to
speak a word of English, but showing a
faultless line of white teeth in the smile
which was so full of a caressing courtesy.
The conversation had to be carried on in
French, which Eaffaello spoke a little with
a good accent, and Miss Horton fluently with
a vile accent. But before it had commenced,
the schoolmistress beckoned Detta towards
her.

This is your niece, Mrs. Wilding," she
said. " She is quite a little foreigner as

yet."

And the young man ? " asked Mrs. Wild*



ing, raising her eye-glasses with a good-humoured
stare towards Vino.

"That is the— ahem! — young gentleman
who brought her over — a friend or connection
of the Mr. Cortauld who appears to have
taken charge of her since her father's
death."

But Benedetta, who had come forward unwillingly
enough, now raised her large eyes
towards the lady's face, and joined in uninvited.


That is Eaffaello Bartolucci," she said.
"He is going back to Eome tomorrow, and
he has come to say good-bye to me. Are you
one of my aunts ? " she ended abruptly.

Mrs. Wilding put her arm around the
child's waist. The straio'htforwardness of
Detta's manner, joined to the pretty pathetic
sound of her stumbling English, touched her
heart, which was not an unkindly one.

Yes," she said ; " I am your aunt Fanny
Mrs. Wilding. Have you heard of me ? "

The Maestro told me about you," said
Benedetta solemnly. " He told me I had two
aunts, both very good and kind." And her

eyes sou2flit those of the elder lady softly, as
if to test the truth of this assertion.

Poor little waif ! " muttered Mrs. Wilding
compassionately, half to herself ; " I wouldn't
trust much to the other aunt's kindness, if I
were you."

From which it will be seen that the sentiments
held by the two half-sisters to one
another was not of a very cordial nature ;
and that Mrs. Wilding was in the habit of
expressing her opinion on the subject of Lady
Dumbarton's merits pretty freely.

She looked at Detta earnestly, and implanted
a kiss upon the smooth cheek, her
own features soften? under the recollection
of the brother that had been loved — once,
long ago.

You have your father's nose and mouth,"
sh said meditatively " The rest of your
face is Italian — your mother's, I suppose."
And she gave a little impatient sigh, as she
dismissed her reminiscences and recalled the
usual expression of careless good-humour to
her face.

But Benedetta's thoughts had returned to

EafTaello and the proposed walk. And bitter
was lier disappointment when she found that
permission was to be denied, and that lier
parting with Ino must be at once.

Indeed the young man, perceiving that his
cone was expected, and that by delaying
his departure he was but prolonging Detta's
distress, rose to go almost immediately upon
the decision of the schoolmistress being made
known to him.

Good-bye, my Piccola," he said, holding
out his hand and leading the child to the
window a few yards off ; " what shall I tell
the Maestro F That you will try to like England
and learn your lessons well, for the sake
of him and your dead father ? "

I will try, I will try, Ino," she sobbed
softly ; " but, oh ! it is very hard."

It will be better when I am gone," he
said. " You have a brave spirit, Piccola ;
you will fight it out and soon be happy. But
if at any time you are in truth miserable, and
want anything, write to Ino, and he will do
what he can for you."

Ah ! and you will tell mee if the Maestro

is ill, or if lie wants me back again ? " she
asked, clinging tightly to him.

'^ I will. Carina. Actio, Actio ! "

It was hard for those who for years had
wandered about together through the sunny
ways of old Eome as brother and sister, to
have to part thus before the inquisitive eyes
of strangers. But Detta, at least, had forgotten
the presence of spectators as she flung
herself for the last time into EafTaellino's
arms.

She could not speak, for her tears choke
her ; but, as he bent his tali head, she pressed
her fresh childish lips again and again to his
cheek, while he whispered tenderly in her
ear :

Good-bye, good-bye, my Piccola — my
little sweetheart ! "

The next moment he had gently disengaged
himself, and with a cloudy look in his soft
Italian eyes, had drawn himself up before the
two ladies, made a low bow to each, and with
a Graceful wave of his hand, had left the
room. But as the door closed, Detta for the
first time fully realised her forlorn position

as an orphaned stranger in a foreign land, and
flinging herself down by the window seat,
regardless both of schoolmistress and aunt,
she burst into a paroxysm of sobs.

Benedetta," said Miss Horton, " leave off
crying, and come here."

Tie cool calm tone of authority fell upon
the child's excitement like the touch of ice
and she checked her sobs suddenly and
proudly.

Come here," echoed Mrs, Wilding, " and
dr}^ your eyes, like a good child."

Detta obeyed slowly and reluctantly.

You must not be so miserable, my dear,"
said her aunt, with a well-meant effort at consolation
; "it is very sad to say good-bye to
one's friends, I know, but everyone will be
very kind to you here, and j^ou will soon be
as happy as the day is long. And, sou know,
you are come to your own relations ; those
Italian people have not really anything to do
with you. You must be English now, and
try to remember that jour father was a
Campbell."

Benedetta regarded her solemnly and sadly.

gathering with some difficulty the drift of
her words.

You do not ask me to forget Ino and
the Maestro ? " she enquired earnestly.

Who is the Maestro ? " returned her
mystified aunt.

"He is the Signor Cortauld — my father's
friend — my master and father."

Ah, yes ! " said Mrs. Wilding, " the fiddler
poor Ned took a fancy to. I daresay he is
a good sort of old fellow."

The colour mounted slowly into Benedetta's
cheeks.

The tone was patent enough to her quick
understanding, although she was not capable
of appreciating the slighting nature of the
words used.

He is the great music man — the primo
violin," she said ; " there is none in Eome
better than he is."

Mrs. Wilding smiled.

And this boy, this Eaffaello, what do you
call him — what is he ? The old man's son ? "

Ah, no. He is of Eome- — a Bartolucci —
he is 'Nunciata's son."

And who on earth is 'Nunciata ? "

She was my nurse — she takes care of us,
and cooks for the Maestro."

Good heavens ! " ejaculated Mrs. Wilding ;
that elegant-looking young man ! And does
he cook too ? "

Detta gave her a glance of grave reproof.
He is a sculptor," she replied ; he will
be a great artist— now he but works in a
studio "

And so you two have been brought up
together ? " enquired her aunt. " Well, well,
all that can be put straight now. Thank
goodness, it's a good many hundred miles
from here to Eome. You must rome and
see us at Midsummer, Detta. Your cousin
Eveleen will be very glad to see you,
though she is several years older than you.
By that time," she concluded injudicious,
you will be quite an Englishwoman, I
hope."

A spark of fire leapt into Benedetta's eyes.
I will always be Italian," she said impetuously.
" Sempre, sempre ! And I will never
forget Emma, nor EafTaello ! "

You forget yourself, Benedetta ! " said the
schoolmistress.

But Mrs. Wilding turned an amused face
towards her.

A fiery little Eoman ! " she said good-humouredly.
" But it was just her father's
way. He had just the same high spirit."

The child softened instantly.

Am I as my father ? " she asked eagerly.
Oh, I am happy ; I wish to be as him."

Mrs. Wilding was touched, and held out
her arms to her fatherless, motherless niece.
Benedetta crept shyly into them ; and thus
the first link — a slight one — was forged
between the ' little foreigner ' and her new
relations.

*"^ ^ x-itrv"

THE HONOURABLE Beresford.

Christmas was near at hand. There was
a severe frost, and the trees surrounding
Ashley Manor were bending under their
weight of snow. The short December day
was nearly over, and twilight was coming on.
Within the house all was light, warmth and
cheerfulness, pervaded by the bustle consequent
on an arrival. There was, perhaps, no
house in the county better furnished than the
Manor — furnished with taste and convenience
— all about it was snug and cosy, and,
although neither imposing in size nor in the extent
of its grounds, it was one of the prettiest
little properties in that part of the country
The late owner, Mr. Wilding, had been a man
of cultivation, a lover of ease and a dilettante
in art, who had collected together pretty

tidings from all parts of the world, and
lavished money freely upon the embellishment
of his home. He had been accounted wealthy,
but was more probably one of those men who,
spending every penny of their means, and
concerning themselves but little about those
who come after them, manage to make a
moderate income sufficient for their not
immoderate wants. At any rate, upon his
death, some fifteen years ago, Mrs. Wilding
had found it necessary to retrench expenses
to a considerable extent. Her town house
had been given up, and she had also put down
several horses, contenting herself with a pair
of ponies and one old carriage horse for night
work. But she had by no means relinquished
her position as a woman of fashion, and, so
soon as the period of mourning was over, had
resumed her place in society, dining out and
giving dinners as before ; subsequently, when
a few years later, her daughter was introduced,
taking her to all the county balls and gaieties
of every description patronised by the upper
ten. She had even managed, the first year or
so, after Eveleen's presentation at Court, to

hire a little house for the London season,
plunging the girl into the vortex of that
period of dissipation, during which it was
reported that she had been much admired ;
but had discontinued this proceeding, finding
it bear too heavily upon an income at all
times strained to its utmost limits.

Eveleen Wilding was a pretty girl. At
seven-and-twenty she was probably prettier
than when, at seventeen, she made her curtesy
before Loyalty. She was fair, with light brown
hair and blue eyes. A severe critic might
have thought her features a trifle too sharp,
but he could not have quarrelled with her
complexion, which was lovely, nor with the
daintiness of her short, slight figure. The
habitual expression of her face was, like her
mother's, one of good-humoured indifference
mixed with a keen sparkle of fun. Yet there
were times when it would light up with
sympathetic animation, or, more rarely, relax
into a momentary wistful sadness. She was
always dressed in the height of the fashion,
and with her good looks and bright, clever
tongue, was a universal favourite, both in

general society and in the many county
houses at wliicli both she and her mother were
in the habit of stopping. Many people
wondered why, ere this, Eveleen Wilding had
not made a good match with someone or
other, and settled down into a home of her
own. Some said tlia't she was too particular,
others that her rather sharp tongue frightened
away intending suitors, and others again that
she was waiting for her cousin, the Honorable
Beresford Conway. Certainly Mr. Beresford
Conway was an extremely eligible young man.
The second son of an earl, with an independent
fortune, an elegant appearance and fashionable
manners, it was scarcely to be wondered at if
society made much of him, and agreed in
proclaiming him i\\Q parti par excellence of the
county — an opinion in which, malicious
persons averred, he himself fully concurred.
Be this as it may, there is no doubt that Mr.
Conway had an extremely good opinion of
himself. From childhood he had been told
that he was handsome, clever and agreeable,
whilst facts assured him that he was rich and
well born. His elder brother, the future earl,

was a man of shallow understanding and infirm
health. Beresford was neither, and from this
cause it perhaps naturally resulted that both
his friends and himself should over-rate his
merits.

He was sociable, too, a good dancer, and
(some people said) a good talker, a tidy shot
and a fair fisherman — sufficiently athletic to
be popular amongst the muscular youth of his
generation, and sufficiently indifferent to ladies'
society to be agreeable to all and pay particular
attentions to none. He was a welcome
visitor at most houses, but in none was he
more frequently seen than at Ashley Manor.
Mrs. Wilding had been his mother's first
cousin, and on the strength of this relationship
he made a sort of home of her house ^
assisting her at every social event, and usually
spending his Christmas there. The present
Countess of Courthope was not much to his
taste. She was his step-mother — his own
mother having died when he was a youth —
and a woman of low extraction ; and perceiving
it impossible to get on with her, and consequently
with the old earl, his father, Mr.

Conway found it more convenient to divide
his life betwixt this club in town and his
cousin's ever hospitable house. The outside
world had for long imagined a tenderness
between Beresford and Eveleen Wilding.
They were mistaken however in their estimate
of the feeling that existed between the two
cousins. There was indeed strong regard on
both sides, but no love-making either in the
present or the past, and Mrs. Wilding, whose
desire for the match was, said the uncharitable
world, vulgarly patent, and who scarcely
as set realised the brotherly and sisterly sentiments
entertained by the two, was beginning in
despair to relinquish her long cherished hope.

In one of the pretty rooms upstairs, Miss
Wilding now stood with her foot on the fender,
talking eagerly to the new arrival.

You can't think how glad I am to have
you back for good and all. Delta," she was
saying. "You will have to live with us altogether,
you know, now that you have done
with that tiresome school. We shan't let Aunt
Dumbarton get too much of you, I can tell
you. I have wanted a companion all my life,
VOL. I. 5

and now that I have got one in my old age, T
shan't let her go in a linrry ! "

You are very nice to say so," said Detta
gratefully.

Let me look at you, child. You have
grown much better-looking than you were
last time I saw you. I flatter myself our
foreign cousin will be something of a county
lion this winter."

And sou," said Detta smiling, as the
colour rose softly to her cheeks, " you are
foolish as ever, Eva carina ! "

That's the very thing ! " exclaimed her
companion. " The little soupcon of a foreign
accent puts the finishing touch to your fascinations,
my dear Detta."

Benedetta gave an impatient movement.

Do be sensible," she said. " Tell me dio
are coming here, and if you shall be very
gay :

Gay, my dear ? Yes, we are always gay
after a fashion, in winter, or when there is any
gaiety to be had. A few people are coming
to dinner to-night, as I told you, and I have
teased Mama into giving a regular dance after

Christmas. That is for your benefit. I want
you to come out with a flourish of trumpets.
You are young and pretty and half foreign.
You must be beautifully dressed, and I shall
tell everybody that you are an heiress, and
that your mother was a Eoman princess. Then
you will have all the world at your feet, and
can pick and choose the best man in the
county at your pleasure."

Why do you talk in that way, Eva ?
You know you don't mean to tell people lies."

Oh, my dear child, don't be so frightfully
pragmatical and prosaic."

Well, then," continued Detta, " sou don't
consider the best man in the county a necessity
for my happiness ? "

As to that," remarked Eva, " I don't know
that I consider man in any form an absolutely
essential ingredient in the cup of domestic
happiness. But goodness gracious ! my dear
Benedetta, you must not imbibe your ideas
from me, a soured old spinster. With most
people a good match is the sine-qud-non of
bliss."

You scarcely look like a soured old maid,"

5*

said Detta, stroking the smooth braids of her
companion's fair hair with a half maternal
touch.

Don't I ? Well, perhaps not the typical
old maid. She will soon be represented hereby
our dear friend, Miss Sparke. Aunt Dumbarton
won't stir a step without her ; and so —
woe betide us ! we've got to take them both in
for Christmas. It will be a lively time, will it
not, with aunt Dumbarton and her severe
looks, and Miss Sparke and her little tracts ?
Mark of the Beast,' I call her. Beresford
cats her the ' Vital Spark of Heavenly light.'
She's anything but heavenly to my mind. But
I shall manage to exist this winter, with you
and Beresford to support me on either side.
Mama will be the one to be pitied. Aunt
Dumbarton has not yet found out that she is
too old to be reformed, and lectures her unceasingly
every moment she has her to herself.
Yon don't know Beresford, do you, Detta ? "

No, but I have heard of him."

Oh, of course," said Eva carelessly ;
every one has heard of Beresford Conway."


Is he so very celebrated ? " asked Delta,
whether serious or sarcastic Eveleeii was uncertain.


Celebrated ? Well, every man of his sortis
celebrated in the sense that all the people
worth knowing know him, and all the others
want to know him. He shall take you in to
dinner to night, Miss Prim, and then you shall
find out for yourself — if you have the knack
of drawing him out — whether he cannot make
himself very fairly agreeable. It is verj^ good
of me to relinquish him, for I find him much
better company than Sir Peter Galloway or
any other of the country fogies coming this
evening. Thank goodness Aunt Dumbarton
doesn't arrive with her Vital Sparke till tomorrow."


She has been kind to me," remarked Detta,
musingly. " I don't like Miss Sparke ; I think
she is sly ; but Lady Dumbarton is honest —
though she is sometimes harsh, and very particular."


She has taken one of her solemn fancies to
you, my dear. It is a great mercy, because, if
you are clever, you may perhaps some day

cut out the ubiquitous Sparke, — to whom I
have always expected her to leave her money,
if it doesn't go to the Tract Society — and may
at some future date wake up to find yourself
a real heiress and possessor of some of those
many thousands of hers now lying idle in
Courts' bank. I have long ago given up all
hopes of getting a penny of it myself — though
Mama does go on, with such heroic self-abnegation,
putting up with the old wet blanket,
for the sake of what she may do for me in her
will — so you need not mind thinking of me.
It would soothe my last moments, I verily believe,
if I could see the Vital Sparke trotting
out into the cold the day after Aunt Dumbarton's
funeral."

Detta smiled; but there was a look-of
puzzled enquiry in her eyes as they rested
upon her cousin, not unnoticed by the
latter.

My dear," she said, " you will have to
grow used to me. I often say things out
which other people keep in, but you mustn't,
from that fact, deduce the assumption that I
am particularly honest, or you will find your



self at fault again. I am only honest when it
amuses me or pleases me ; and can fib in
society with the best of 'them, when I am in
the mood."

Detta was silent. She was gazing thoughtfully
into the fire, and made no response to
her companion's light talk.

Eveleen presently jumped up. "There is a
fuss in the hall now," she said. " It must be
Beresford. He always brings about fifty-two
packages, including portmanteaux, hat-boxes,
and gun-cases. I must go down and give him
his cup of tea, or I shall be in his bad graces.
Good-bye, Detta. I shall send Susan up to help
you in half-an-hour. Mind you put on a
becoming dress and be down in good time."
Detta remained seated before the fire,
silently gazing into the red heart of the
cheerful glow, for some time after her cousin
had left her.

It was now six years since that winter when
Benedetta Campbell, a little Eoman maid, had
landed with EafFaello Bartolucci on the English
shores, which seemed to her as those of a
foreign land. She had then been barely

twelve ; she was now eighteen. Tlicse six
years had transformed her from a shy, half-peasant
child, Italian in speech and manner,
to a slim, fair-faced English girl, who yet bore
many traces of the old Detta about her, and in
whose soft dark eyes and coils of raven hair
lay the unmistakeable tokens of her mother's
nationality.

As a child, Benedetta had not been unattractive
in appearance, but she had scarcely
promised to bud forth into so sweet a specimen
of womanhood.

It was not that she was strictly beautiful ;
her features, although well-formed, where not
without their minor defects ; but there was a
nameless grace about her movements, a pretty
dignity in her carriage, and an expression,
half proud, half eager, upon her mobile young
face that counted for even more than symmetry
of outline in the sum of her personal attractions.
She smiled now to herself as she sat musing
over the fire, and her smile had the rich, full
tenderness which floods a southern-featured
countenance so much more readily and
naturally than it does the more stiffly moulded

northern one. Her reflections seemed pleasant ;
and she was humming a little song merrily as
she rose and began to make her preparations
for the evening's gathering.

Eveleen meanwhile, downstairs, was pouring
out the coffee and handing it to a tall man
who lay lazily stretched out at his ease in one
of the low easy chairs, his feet to the blaze.

Well, what news, Beresford ? " she
enquired.

Family or social ? '' demanded her cousin,
speaking in the deliberate tone usual to him,
and which some of his male companions
unkindly termed a drawl.

Oh, begin with the family, of course," said
Eveleen.

Well," said Beresford, sipping his coffee,
Fred is gone over to Eome — not the faith,
but the city — for the winter."

What took him there ? " asked Mrs
Wildinfif.

Fred was the elder brother, the future earl.

"I think," said Mr. Conway, "it must have
been Miss Alicia Jones that took him there.
She is come in for twenty thousand pounds,

and I fancy Fred thinks she would do for the
future Lady Carleton. Or, perhaps it was
that our respected stepmother has just added
a couple of pugs to her stock in trade of
pomeranian curs, and the pugs don't like
Fred. So that he has got an excuse for
absenting himself from the paternal roof for
Christmas. But I don't know ; it may be
something else."

You never do know anything, Beresford,"
said Eveleen ; " according to your own
account at least."

A positive man is a nuisance," was the
calm reply, " and it's underbred to know more
than your neighbours choose to tell you.
But I always know one thing, Eva ; I know
when I am comfortable."

Which you are now ? " inquired Mrs.
Wilding with affectionate solicitude.

"It is always comfortable here," replied
Mr. Conway with evident sincerity.

Mrs. Wilding gave a smile of gratified
feeling at this announcement, whilst Eveleen
exclaimed :

You are wonderfully flattering to-night,

Beresford, and talkative too. I haven't heard
you put together so many consecutive words
for several years. But now for the social
news ? "

Haven't got any," lie replied. " People
are being married, and born, and dying pretty
much as usual, I suppose, but to no particular
interest to anybody but themselves. It's your
turn now."

Well," said Eveleen, " I can give you one
piece of bad news, and one of good. The bad
is that Aunt Dumbarton and her precious
companion have made up their minds to come
here for Christmas ; the good is that Benedetta
Campbell has left school and will be with us
too. You don't speak, Beresford. What are
you thinking of ? "

"I am thinking of Aunt Dumbarton,"
replied Mr. Conway. " She is a subject for
reflection."

She is a subject for bad language, I
think," retorted Eva.

It will be quite a happy family gathering.
Cousin Fanny, I congratulate you."

It is hard, is it not ? " asked Mrs. Wilding

pathetically. "She sits upon me from morning
till night, even in my own house. I shall
never have a moment's peace while she is
here."

Yes," remarked Eva, " there is always
something wanting correction. Either our
heels are too liioii or our tuckers are too low ;
the housemaid is flippant, or the cook does
not understand her sauces. Aunt Dumbarton's
long nose can always sniff out something
wrong."

And so the Vital Sparke is coming''
mused Mr. Conway. " Side is a very terrible
woman. You should have forewarned me,
cousin Fanny ; she is always trying to
convert me, and I am not sure that she
doesn't mean to marry me as well."

"I was afraid if I did forewarn you,"
laughed Mrs. Wilding, " that you wouldst
come, and Eveleen and I really could not
have existed through the ordeal without someone
pleasant in the house to keep our spirits

"Ah," said Mr. Conway, "selfishness is at
the root of most of the actions of woman."

There," said Eveleen, " don't moralize !
You have not asked me yet about Benedetta.
Don't you want to know what she is like ? "

Jot particularly," with a yawn.

Have you no curiosity about this half-foreign
cousin ? "

I am never curious," remarked Beresford ;
it is too great an exertion."

I wonder," observed Eveleen, laughing,
if you ever took an exertion, mental or
physical, in your life ? "

Never when I could help it."

Ah, well," said his cousin impatiently
you men can be like that — at least when
you have money ; sou have nothing to do
but to sit still and float through life, and
everybody thinks you charming."

Mr. Conway smiled complacently. " There
is no necessity, that I can see," he remarked,
for women to be kicking up a fuss about
every little thing, as they do. Excitement
seems necessary to the female constitution.
It's fatal to mine."

As that's the case," remarked Eveleen,
I shall not give you an inventory of

Benedetta's charms, but leave you to find
them out for yourself. That will be quite
sufficient for your weak nerves."

Let me know at once what is expected of
me," he said, putting down his coffee cup.
Am I to succumb to this foreign young
person ? "

You had better not be too sure of yourself
in this case," remarked Eveleen ; " it is
quite possible that Detta may be the one
girl in the world to resist jour fascinations."


Saving and excepting you," he returned
calmly, watching with a languid interest the
pretty little blush which flitted across his
cousin's face. " It won't do, my dear Eveleen,
it really won't. You must give up this
match-making hobby of yours ; I'm not a
marrying man. Try Sir Peter Galloway
now for your protegee''

Sir Peter Galloway ! " she exclaimed
scornfully. " He has about as much brains
as a rabbit, and cares for nothing but his
stable and his dinner."

Hush, hush, my dear Eva ! " said her

mother. " There are many worse youncr
fellows. He has no vices, and is well oil ;
and every girl does not want a senior
wrangler for her husband."

Detta wouldst put up with a muff," remarked
Eveleen.

Besides," said her cousin, " Sir Peter is
booked to sou, Eva. He adopts — a — the
complexion of a damask rose so soon as you
enter the room."

I never see any difference in his complexion,"
she retorted ; " it is always that of
a carrot."

Mrs. Wilding looked a little annoyed. She
had made up her mind, that, if the Conway
alliance proved abortive, the Galloway
alliance would not be amiss. Why would
Eva always set herself against everything
tending to her own welfare ?

You are never satisfied, Eva," she
remarked. " Why must you pick holes
in everybody? You will live to be an old
maid, as I say."

Very well, mama ; it is highly probable.
Certain, I may say, if Sir Peter is the alternative.

The wife after Sir Peter's heart is his
own cook."

"And I," remarked her cousin, " will be an
old bachelor, Eveleen ; and when we are both
ancient enough to make it quite proper, I
will come and join you, and we will keep
house together. Don't look disturbed, cousin
Fanny, we will take you in too. Or, better
still, why don't you — a — marry Sir Peter
yourself ? "

From which it will be perceived that the
Honourable Beresford, made much of everywhere,
was more especially spoilt and
permitted to take liberties by the ladies of
Ashley Manor.

V-isV

MY rOTlFJGN COUSIN.

WHEN", an hour later, Benedetta entered
her aunt's drawing-room, she found it
fairly filled with guests. There were elderly
and middle-aged couples, with and without
daughters, a bachelor clergyman, and a big
young man of rubicund countenance who was
laying down the law upon local matters in
rather a loud voice.

There was also another man standing?
silently beside the mantel-piece, apparently
divided between a calm admiration of the fit
of his own evening pumps and an anxious desire
to avoid the eye and conversation of his
r.oisy neighbour. Eveleen touched this one
gently on the arm.

Here, Beresford," she said, " go and talk
to Detta. She knows nobody, and 3'ou can
take her down to dinner. Detta, this is my

VOL, I. ()

cousin, Mr. Beresford Conway — Miss Bene-delta
Campbell."

Detta glanced up and saw before lier a
muscular, well-made man, faultlessly dressed,
this hair and moustache so fair as to be almost
flaxen, and his blue-grey eyes expressive of a
half weary look, only partially relieved by a
slight touch of humour perceptible at the
corners of the mouth. Conway glanced down,
and saw a tall, slight girl, of a graceful presence,
whose fine eyes were regarding him
with a critical scrutiny which was certainly
not bold, but which somehow he felt to be a
little unusual.

Detta's gaze however lasted only for a moment.
She was disappointed in this cousin
Beresford, of whom she had heard so much.
The impression he made upon her was that of
a somewhat conceited and languid person ;
and his height and good looks went for little
in consequence.

There was a pause, for Mr. Conway, who
acted upon the principle of usually shirking
any social duty when there was a reasonable
hope that others might be induced to undertake

it, was in the habit, as a rule successfully,
of leaving the conversation to be started by a
new acquaintance. Only on finding that Detta
did not speak, did he rouse himself to make
some opening remark. He remembered that
Eveleen had told him her cousin was fresh
from school ; and although Miss Campbell by
no means bore the appearance of a bread-and-butter
school-girl, yet he decided that her
silence must be due to shyness.

You are new to these dissipations, I suppose
? " he said, a tone of gentle patronage
pervading his drawl.

Is this dissipation ? " she asked. " Yes, it
is my first dinner-party."

"Well — ah," said Conway, insensibly
changing his tone " You are right. It isn't
much of a festivity, is it ? "

I don't know," she replied, " as I never
was at one before. But I daresay it depends
a good deal on who takes you in."

"True," he replied. "I believe I am to
have that honour. I am afraid you will find
me — a — very dull."

If he expected a polite disclaimer, he was

6*

not disappointed ; and yet somehow it caused
him to scrutinise this school-girl companion a
little closer than he had yet cared to do, to
see if it were possible she were making fun
of him.

Eveleen told me," she remarked gravely,
thai I should find sou agreeable."

My cousin Eveleen has, I fear, too flattering
an estimate of my powers," he replied after
a pause.

"But," she continued, equally demurely,
she also said you required drawing out."

Very true," he observed. " Strangers
don't guess how bashful I am."

Then I am afraid," she said, " we shall not
get on well together, for I don't know how to
draw people out."

She smiled as she spoke, a smile the origin
of which perhaps was not too flattering to her
neighbour. He, however, cared little for a
school-girl's gentle mockery, and only saw
the sudden beauty with which it flooded the
dark eyes and softened with bright warmth
and colour every feature of the expressive
face ; and for a moment he roused himself

from his usual nonchalance to say something
polite.

You need never be at any pains to draw
out your friends, Miss Campbell," he observed ;
the veriest hermit crab would come out of his
shell if you smiled upon him."

Benedetta made no reply, and the little
word of flattery called up no blush to her
smooth cheek.

The Italian speech is flowery,' said Mr.
Conway to himself, unaccustomed to have his
rare compliments received so calmly ; ' pretty
speeches are, I suppose, a necessary part of
every-day dialogue in the south.'

You are Italian, are you not. Miss Campbell?
" he inquired presently.

My mother was a Eoman."

How delightful ! Eoman society is very
exclusive, is it not ? "

I do not know. I was only twelve years
old when I left my home. And my mother
was the daughter of a shopkeeper."

Conway glanced at her for a moment out
of his languid eyes. Was this simplicity
natural, or was it but the affectation of a

pretty sincerity adopted with an eye to effect ?
Whichever it were, the remark silenced him ;
and he felt relieved that the announcement of
dinner served as a convenient break in the
conversation.

At dinner Mr. Conway again found it necessary'
to exert himself to an unusual degree, for
his companion had less to say for herself than
most young ladies of her age, and yet wore an
air of intelligence that seemed intended to
arouse him to a sense of his own responsibilities.
She appeared also to be taking mental
notes of all that went on around her, and he
observed her gaze directed more than once
across the table towards where her cousin sat
beside Sir Peter Galloway.

That is a fine young man, is it not ? " remarked
Beresford, glancing towards the latter
and then letting his half-shut eyes revert to
his companion.

Fine ? In what way ? "

Well — a — big, and stout, and red — plenty
of him, you know."

I suppose," she said dubiously, after a
pause, " those might be considered recommendations

by some people, but it sounds as
if you were talking of prize beef "

He is well off and a baronet — a prize, and
rather beefy," he said languidly. " He is your
consul's adorer. Miss Campbell. Don't you
think it would do ? "

No, indeed ! " she exclaimed. " He is not
half o^ood enough for Eva."

Poor Sir Peter, he admires her hugely"

"• Everyone must admire her," remarked
l^enedetta, " she is so pretty and so clever and
so kind. Do you think much of Sir Peter ? "

"I? Well, he is not perhaps — a — exactly
my idea of manly perfection."

You can see," she said, " from her face,
that Eva thinks nothing of him. Look at the
mocking expression in her eyes. She is laughing
at him all the time."

'^ I think," said Conway, " my cousin mocks
at every man she knows."

'' Oh ! no, she doesn't. I never heard her
mock at you."

"Indeed?" he inquired, with a feeble interest.


But in his heart he was sorry that she

should says it. He was so miicli accustomed
to flattery from women of every age and rank
that he was conscious of a faint wish that it
had not proceeded from his companion's lips.
It detracted somewhat from the unusual freshness
of the impression she had made upon him
that she should begin, like everybody else, to
make much of him. Her next sentence, however,
was not so politely worded, and took him
a little aback.

Scarcely ever," she amended, " and never
unkindly. But then, perhaps, that is because
we <2frow used to the failings of those we are
nmcli with."

Ah ! exactly," he returned drih^ " In
that case, if Eva married Sir Peter she would
soon get over his little foibles."

Benedetta glanced at him in grave surprise.

Why should you be so anxious to marry
Eva ? " she asked.

He gave an almost imperceptible start.

I? " he repeated. " Anxious to marry my
Cousin Eva to anyone? V>y no means! I
And this house far too pleasant."

After which, finding she relapsed into

silence, he began to devote himself to his
other neighbour, giving, however, an occasional
side glance in the direction of the slim,
white figure, and noting with undefined approbation
the graceful pose of the little
head, slightly bent forward as it was in an
attitude attentively observant of the scene
around her.

Dinner over and the gentlemen once more
in the drawing-room, Conway paid no more
attention to Miss Campbell, but gave himself
up to his cousin Eva, turning over the pages
of her music as she played, successfully cutting
out Sir Peter in his somewhat heavy
attempts at doing the agreeable, and later on,
dropping with an air of innocent unconsciousness
into the low chair beside Miss Wilding,
towards which that gentleman was obviously
making his way. He did not even offer
the same attentions to Benedetta when she
rose to comply with her aunt's request fora
song. He was absently turning over the
pages of a photograph album as the clear, full
notes of her rich young voice swept through
the room, and he was perhaps the only person

present that, at the close of the song, did not,
murmur an enthusiastic word of thanks.

"Well," said Eveleen, when, an hour or
two later, the company having all departed,
and Benedetta retired to her room, she and
her mother delayed for a moment, chatting
over the drawing-room fire with Mr. Conway,
and how did sou two get on together at
dinner ? "

We took the usual number of courses,
and we asked each other the usual number of
fatiguing questions," he returned; "both being
well-bred people."

Don't be tiresome, Beresford. Now, don't
you think Detta a charming girl, quite different
from the common run ? "

A little different, perhaps. She does not
chatter unceasingly, nor yet keep unceasing
silence, as is the case, one ways or the other,
with most school-girls."

She is original, is she not ? "

My dear Eva, don't ask me to believe in
originality. It is a delusion. It merely means
affectation, or a forced effort of self-conscious
wit. The onh^ really" (I am afraid Mr.

Conway pronounced it ' really ') " original
person I ever knew owns a man who never
would take this umbrella with him on wet
days for fear of wearing it out — and he has
gone into a kmatic asylum. Unless," he
added reflectively, " one may count the case
of another fellow I know, who is, T believe,
sincerely fond of his mother in-law."

Really, Beresford," laughed Mrs. Wilding,
you prophesy what our American friends
call good times for me, in case Eva ever
marries."

That question, sou know, mamma," said
Eveleen, as her cousin held a spill to light
her candle, " is already settled."

Meanwhile, Benedetta was seated upstairs
before her bedroom fire. She had taken from
her trunk a letter which now lay in her lap,
and, with her long black hair unbound and
hanging over her shoulders, her warm dressing-gown
folded closely round her, and her little
feet thrust into fur slippers, sat gazing into
the flames with an expression half smiling,
half sad. Presently she took the letter up
ao-ain and read it once more through. It

bore the Eoman post-mark, but was written
in Enjzlisli in a trembling hand, which ran
unevenly up and down the page, making it
sometimes difficult to decipher the words.
Benedetta, however, nearly knew it off b}^
heart, although it had only reached her three
days before.

Eome, December 1 5tli.
Mia caressing Piccola, — I wonder if you
are that any longer ? I fancy you to myself
now a tall, well-grown English maiden, with,
however, a warm corner of sour heart filled
whh the remembrance of the Eome that was
your home till six sears ago. I can scarcely
realise that it is indeed so long since sou left
us, and that my wild impulsive little Detta
has probably become a staid accomplished
young lady. It is a great pleasure to me,
Piccola, to write to you in English. It is so
many sears since I had much to do with my
own country and people, that it is a sort of
refreshment to me to use words of intimacy
in the old tongue — even when it is only written
words. But sou are wise, m3^ child, to
write to me in Italian, for though Ino has now

really a very fair smattering of English, yet I
fear he would find it hard to make out for mea
long letter written in the language. I know
how glad you will be to hear how grandly
Ino is getting on in his profession. He is a
true artist, and has his whole heart and soul
in his work, without which none can win
success. He and I have long talks about you
in leisure moments, and often wonder what
sort of a young lady our little Detta has
grown up into. We have been more than
ever together since poor Annunciata's death,
which EafFaello felt most keenly. Pippo too
has really at last carried out his desire to
emigrate, and set sail last Monday from Leghorn
for Australia. My good Annunciata's
successor does not wish for lodgers, so I am
turning out of the old room, but not, I am
glad to say, out of the old house. I am removing
to one upon the top piano, where Vino
too can be accommodated beside me. It will
feel strange at first, but I shall no doubt soon
grow used to it, and the only serious drawback
will be the loner flight of stairs, whenever one
wants to taste the outside air. I have, however,

been leading rather an idle life of it
lately, not being so strong as I used to be, and
for the last month have been obliged to give
up my place in the orchestra. I hope, however
to return to work soon ; and they are
ready to take me back at any time. I have
one bit of news for you. There is a chance
a faint one— of Ino coming over to visit
England again. Signor Pancratzi, his master,
is talking of sending him on some commission
to London. If that be the case, what a
pleasure it will be to him to renew his acquaintance
with his old friend Detta. I hope your
relations will not object to his calling upon you.
I know my Piccola will be glad to see her
former companion, and hear news of the old
Maestro who thinks so often of her. From
your letters, my child, I know what a joy will
be a whifF of the iioman air, and almost as
great a pleasure will be to me the return news
of old England.

Do not talk about coming back to me,
child. Your place is amongst your English
relations ; and so long as sou satisfy them
and are happy amongst them, I shall be

well content. Ino, when he comes, will
tell you some details which I need not put
on paper, regarding the little sum still
left to you from the sale of your father's
pictures, and other matters which we have
talked over together. We shall see each other
again some day, please God ; perhaps when
my little Benedetta has married some fine
English gentleman, and is passing through
Italy on her wedding tour — who knows ?
Never, however, be persuaded to forget, that
though your father was of English birth, yet
that your mother was also a Eoman of pure
descent and of no unlearned family. A river-merci
then ; and that God may bless and preserve
my Detta is the prayer of her loving old
Maestro,

"Bernard CoKTAULD."

Benedetta gazed at the trembling signature
for a few moments ; then she raised the letter
to her lips, and, with something of the old
passionate ardour of her childish days, kissed
it two, three times. Her eyes had filled with
unshed tears as they passed over that part

which told of the musician's loss of strength,
but they brightened with joy as they read of
Ino's possible visit. Ah ! it would indeed be
delicious to talk over the old home and life
with her former companion. After the
Maestro, Ino had been dearer to her than
any other in those childish days of happy, untaught
freedom.

'pm

A SINCERE Person .

rnHE following afternoon the household at
I Ashley Manor was all agog with the
arrival of Lady Dumbarton and her train.
The train was not inconsiderable, consisting
as it did of her companion, Miss Sparke, her
maid and her toy terrier. Mrs. Wilding had
been heard to say that, of this formidable
quartette, each member was proportionately
insufferable in the inverse ratio of his or her
social importance. Her half-sister was troublesome
and annoying, Miss Sparke still more so,
the lady's maid worse, and the almost invisibly
small dog most of all so. Notwithstanding
much previous preparation, a full hour, spent
by the members of the family in ceaselessly
running up and down stairs at the behest of
one or more of the four, had elapsed before
VOL. I. 7

the new arrivals appeared to have settled down
in their separate apartments with any satisfaction
to themselves.

I am sure," murmured Mrs. Wilding to
her daughter, as, her patience nearly exhausted,
she descended at last to the drawing-room
to ring for afternoon tea, " I have given
up the best room in the house, the one which
Beresford always has, to your aunt, and yet
she is not satisfied. There has been a lire in
it all yesterday as well as to-day, but she declares
it is damp, and complains of the fog.
/ don't make the fogs ! But your aunt always
expects, when she comes into a hilly country
in the middle of December, that she will find
sunshine and an immaculate sky waiting for
her. I suppose she orders her owen weather
in Yorkshire. I can't understand," she continued,
poking the fire with a vigour which
appeared somewhat to relieve her feelings,
how these very good people, who are always
snapping up their neighbours on the score of
their neglected souls, should make such a precious
fuss about the ease of their own persons.
/ take care of myself because I like my comforts,

and I say so, and I don't talk liiimbug
about ' perishing clays' and ' vile bodies,' and
such-like unpleasant nonsense. Yet even I
don't make everyone miserable about me because
the sky is one colour when I fancy it
another, nor do I wear out Christian legs to
hunt up a particular kind of biscuit to suit
the palate of a nasty little snarling dog."

When, a few minutes later. Lady Dumbarton
descended for her tea, the subject she selected
for conversation was scarcely approached in a
manner calculated to soothe the already irritated
feelings of her hostess. The slight fog, or
the fatigue of the journey, appeared to have
put out the guest, whose temper, never very
equable, was this evening decidedly aggravating.
Perhaps nothing annoyed Mrs. Wilding
more than to have her domestic or social
arrangements called in question ; and this her
half-sister seemed determined to do after the
most unsparing fashion.

Are we going to have a quiet, Christian
Christmas day this year ? " enquired Lady
Dumbarton, " or are you going to fill the
house with a crowd of strangers? (Sparke,

Dandy wants to get np. Lift him on my
knee."

Yes, my lady")

We don't happen to be going to have any
friends with us," replied Mrs. Wilding ; " but
I have yet to learn, Maria, that hospitality is
unchristian."

The season," remarked Lady Dumbarton,
is, as / understand it, a time for sacred
thought, and not intended to be turned into a
mad round of balls and dinner-parties."

Oh, well, I certainly have asked a few
people to meet you at dinner on Thursday.
Have you any objection? "

Of course I have no objection to make
the acquaintance of any sensible, right-minded
persons."

I don't pull my neighbours to pieces to
find out what their moral consciousness is
made of," observed Mrs. Wilding. " There is
also a dance on the 28th. You had better
know the worst at once."

You are aware," said her sister, " of my
sentiments on those points. I consider all
such entertainments as traps for the foolish

and unwary, and most pernicious to the young
and innocent."

Oh, well, don't," returned Mrs. Wilding
shortly. " So there is no use in discussing
the matter."

"• None at all," said the other. " You must
go your way, Fanny, and I must go mine.
Bat we shall have to account for all our
actions"

And for all our words," retorted her half-sister,
whose temper, usually placid, appeared
this afternoon to be tried beyond its powers.
And Eveleen, seeing storm signals ahead, interposed.


Come, auntie, don't be so terribly severe,"
she said. " I have danced all my life, and I
don't know that I am such a very immoral or
perverted character. Young people must have
a little fun, you know, and Detta has left
school and is comines out at our dance."

Oh ! it's for Detta's sake, is it ? " inquired
her aunt. " Poor child, rescued from the
errors of Romanism in order to fall into the
pit of this world's pomps and vanities ! "

'well, as to vanities, I suppose we all have

those, Aunt Maria ; but I don't think mother
and I go in much for worldly pomp. Besides,
what could we do with Beresford Conway on
our hands all the time, and nothing to amuse
him ? "

Oh, he is here too, is he ? It is a matter
of surprise to me, Fanny, how sou can permit
that idle, dissipated young man to hang about
jour house in the way you do. I assure you,
it is much commented upon amongst our
friends."

If one were to heed comments one would
never do anything one liked. Beresford Conway
is not dissipated, and I have him here
because I like him."

The outside world must be excused if it
puts another motive down to you," remarked
her half-sister unpleasantly. " Beresford
Conway is a very good match, according to
worldly reckonings."

Am I to dislike everybody who happens
to be rich ? " demanded Mrs. Wilding. " Of
course, I know it is very difficult for a rich
man to enter the kingdom of heaven ; but
still it is just p( possible for a wealthy person to

bo also an estimable one — as, for instance,
yourself, Maria."

I know 3^011 do not wish to hear what I
have to say, Fanny," observed the other,
but I feel it my duty to speak plainly. All
the more so, that it is clear the young man
has no serious intentions whatever, and is
simply spunging upon j^ou for the sake of his
own convenience. You will merely render
yourself ridiculous, if you do not put a limit
upon his visits, as all the world will say you
have tried to catch him for your daughter,
and have failed."

Eveleen jumped up, a sudden pink flush
upon her fair cheeks.

Allow me, Aunt," she said, " to have a
little voice in the matter. Let me state, once
for all, for your satisfaction, that, although
I am sincerely fond of my cousin, and he,
I hope, of me, I have never entertained the
smallest ambition towards what you call his
intentions. And permit me also to say, that
if the outside world thinks it impossible for
any one to exercise hospitality towards a
friend and relation without such motives, it

is not only an uncharitable, but an exceedingly
vulgar world."

I am sorry you should receive ray
observations in such . a spirit," remarked
Lady Dumbarton.

Maria," said Mrs. Wilding, putting down
her tea-cup with an energy that made the
china ring, " I must decline to discuss such
matters before a stranger, even to oblige
you."

Lady Dumbarton glanced towards her companion,
who, for the last few moments, had
been diligently employing herself in the
mysterious occupation called tatting, and
had now risen to prepare a saucerful of
bread and milk for the little dog ; but whose
inquisitive ears, Mrs. Wilding felt assured
had not lost one syllable of the conversation.

Sparke," she said, " is not a stranger."

Not to you, perhaps," retorted her half-sister.


Besides," continued the elder lady, " truth
should never be unwelcome to the mind of a
sincere person."

I hate your sincere persons ! " exclaimed

Mrs. Wilding. " If it comes to a choice, I

would rather put up with a good-humoured,

agreeable humbug, than a so-called sincere

person, who feels it .his duty to be always

picking holes in his neighbours."

I," said Lady Dumbarton, '' am always

glad to hear the truth."

'' Then, I don't believe you, Maria !

Suppose now, you were someone whose little

natural defects required an artificial remedy,

would you like your maid to come into the

drawing-room and tell everybody how many

false teeth you wore, or how much of your

hair was your own ? "

Lady Dumbarton was silent." A little flush
rose to her cheek, and her glance increased
in severity. The shot had told, as her
affectionate sister had intended it should ;
for the neat row of brown curls which
adorned the good lady's forehead, were, as
the other well knew, the artistic production
of Mr. Truefittt.

Sparke," she said, presently, in her
stateliest manner, " kindly fetch me my
handkerchief ; 1 think I have left it upstairs."

Certainly, my lady. And will your ladyship
have Dandy on your knee, now ? He
has finished his tea."

You may lift him up, Sparke."

How that woman does ' my lady ' you ! "
exclaimed Mrs. Wilding, as Miss Sparke left
the room with her usual noiseless step. " I
can't think why you don't tell her, Maria ;
it's such very bad style."

Mamma, dear," said Eveleen, laughing,
you are cross. Do you hear the noise of
wheels ? It must be Beresford. Ah ! and
here is Detta at last."

The greeting between Benedetta and her
aunt was not an uncordial one. Lady dumbarton's
peculiar words and ways, although
they often puzzled and sometimes amused
the Anglo-italian girl, yet did not seem to
annoy her in the way they annoyed the
others. The natural straightforward simplicity
of Detta's disposition disposed her
to be more submissive beneath the elder
woman's strictures, and gave her a certain
attraction in the eyes of the latter, who, in
her stern way, was really attached to her

niece. Notwithstanding her impulsive nature
and foreign extraction too, Detta possessed in
reality, more of the virtue of toleration than
either Eva or her mother, and was more
capable of perceiving the certain amount
of real worth and integrity that underlay
Lady Dumbarton's narrow prejudices and
conventional mode of expression.

Her entrance somewhat restored the tone of
good breeding, which had for the last few
minutes been running a perilous risk of
extinction. She answered her aunt's many
questions quietly and simply and received in
silence her admonitions regarding the perils
of the gay world in general, and of the
coming dance in particular.

Eva meanwhile was bending over her
mother, whispering :

Now really, mamma, you must be more
patient, or wee shall be in for a row royal first
thing. Think what a lively time we shall have
of it, if you and Aunt Maria go on hammer
and tongs at each other like this for the next
three weeks — "when the door opened and
Beresford Conway entered the room.

At last ! " exclaimed his cousin. " Your
tea will be very weak, Beresford."

"Thanks," he said, coming forward. 'your
servant, Lady Dumbarton."

Lady Dumbarton bowed stiffly She had no
intention of disguising her prejudice against her
sister's visitor, but Miss Sparke took the hand
he held out with effusive politeness. " Glad to
see you again, Miss Sparke," he remarked somewhat
vaguely and ungraciously. And Miss
Sj^arke, notwithstanding her uncertain age,
blushed as she murmured some inaudible
response.

What sport ? '' inquired Eva.

One good run — towards the end. Lasted
nearly forty minutes''

You were in at the death, I suppose
:

"Well— no, I wasn't."

^* You knocked out of time ? Never! " she
exclaimed incredulously.

Mr. Conway was silent.

Had a spill ? " demanded Eva.

"Well— yes."

A bal one?"

Bad for Beauty," returned her cousin.
"She's— in fact — she's dead."

Good gracious ! " exclaimed Mrs. Wilding,
dead ! How did that happen ? " There
was great commiseration in her tones, for both
she and her daughter knew that this chestnut
mare was quite the favourite of Mr. Conway's
little stud.

Beresford sipped his tea slowly, his colour a
little higher than usual.

Staked herself," he replied at length,
going over a hedge. Jumped on to the
paling beyond instead of clearing it. I shot
her."

"You did?" exclaimed Mrs. Wilding
poor thing ! Oh, Beresford, I am so
sorry for you."

Mr. Conway got up and walked towards
the window.

Thank you — yes, it's a bore — just at
the beginning of the season, too," he remarked,
his drawl more pronounced than
usual. "The frost is breaking up nicely
to-day."

Couldn't anyone else have shot the poor

beast ? " asked Eva. " It must have been
so horrid for 3^011 to do it."

"Well, yes, I suppose they might," he
returned. He did not say that he had
preferred to do the painful task himself,
feeling that a quick and merciful death was
the last kindness he could render to the
animal he loved.

All so-called sport is cruel," remarked
Lady Dumbarton sententiously. " I cannot
conceive of a christian-minded person allowing
themselves to take part in such occupations "

No one answered her, but after a pause she
continued :

I cannot imagine wdiat can be the amusement
to au}^ rational mind in rushing madly
over ploughed fields and attempting to break
his neck over hedges and ditches — all for
what ? To pursue and capture an animal
which, when killed, is absolutely valueless ! "

She was addressing herself pointedly to Mr.
Conway, and evidently expected a response.

No P " he replied. " Perhaps you never
cared for hard riding ? People amuse themselves
in different ways."

rut. this reply was not of the nature which
I lady Dumbarton had intended to eHcit. She
had no wish to be put on a par with those she
condemned, and considered simply as differing
from them on the score of personal inclinations.


"Were I ever so devoted to riding,"
she remarked coldly, " I should still
eschew hunting. Providence has created
the animal world to supply our necessary
wants, but not to minister, by their sufferings,
to the gratification of unfeeling amusement."


"Quite so," he remarked in an exhausted
tone, as his eye caught the heavy fur trimming
of her handsome dress But few of us, I
suppose, are consistent. I don't, for instance,
pretend to understand the exigencies of a
lady's — toilette— but still, there are sealskin
jackets, and — a — feather muffs and other
things. Seal hunting is cruel work, they
say "

Beresford," said Eva, " why have you
stroked your hair down over your forehead in
that extraordinary way ? "

Miss Sparke, who was gliding to the other
side of the room, gave a little shriek.

The blood is trickling down ! " she exclaimed,
clasping her hands.

Conway hastily put up his handkerchief.


Beg pardon," he said. " I thought I had
washed it off."

*' Did you hurt yourself to-day ? " inquired
Mrs. Wilding anxiously.

A scratch only. Don't fuss, Cousin
Fanny." For Mrs. Wilding, with demonstrative
affection, had run to his side, and turning
back the short, flaxen hair, displayed to
public view a large plaistered cut.

About dressing time, isn't it ? " he continued,
rising with an evident air of being
overburdened by the general commiseration.

Lady Dumbarton alone, however, had gazed
upon the wound in silence ; and as he slowly
dawdled out of the room, her comment was
audible to him.

Mad infatuation ! " she exclaimed, lifting
both hands into the air, " a valuable horse
killed, and the precious life of a human being

risked, all for the sake of running after a poor
little harmless, panting quadruped."

Which remark, like the comments of most
prejudiced persons, shewed a painful inability
to grasp the .simplest bearings of her
subject.

VOL. I.

A SERIOUS CONVERSATION.

CHRISTMAS at Ashley Manor was scarcely
kept after the good old fashion. It was
rather typical of the modern school which
votes all sentiment a bore, and openly acknowledges
old customs to be out of date. Lady
Dumbarton's theories on the subject of the
season were severe, her sister's festive and
social, while Beresford Conway gave it as his
opinion that the popular notions were a vulgar
anachronism. They only taught people,
he said, to feel the obligation of stuffing themselves
inordinately with turkey and plum-pudding,
to drink champagne to excess, and
to sing stupid comic songs or more stupid
carols. In fact, it was a festivity now relegated
to the lower orders and entirely tabooed
by persons of position or good taste. Under

these circumstances, Mrs. Wilding felt it incumbent
upon her to mark the season as little
as possible.

A barrister connection, a nephew on
her husband's side, came down for a three
days' visit during the course of the week, and
being a clever, agreeable man, gave a momentary
spurt to the family-party ; but, for the
rest, the time passed with sufficient monotony
to justify Eveleen's assertion that Christmas
was always the dullest period of the year. The
weather was mild and damp, and Mr. Conway
was absent most days either hunting or shooting,
leaving the ladies to make the most of a
somewhat uncongenial quintette indoors.
During these quiet hours, Detta's thoughts
often strayed back to the great festivals of her
childhood. What times of excitement and
delight they had been ! She remembered, as
if it had been yesterday, the mornings when
'Nunciata had taken her to see the image of
the Child-Christ lying before the altars ; and
the evenings when, hand in hand with Vino,
she had wandered into the crowded streets
and watched the Girandola flame out above

b*

the Pincian hill — or penetrated into the still
more crowded churches, where the brilliant
limits and the bursts of music made her little
heart swell with a mysterious rapture. How
she had loved those glorious times of Christmas
and Easter ! Were there any churches
in Christendom like those of old Rome ? Could
any ritual be so gorgeous, so heart-stirring as
that to which she had been then accustomed ?
Detta had been carefully instructed since her
comines to England in the faith of her own
people ; yet the beauty-loving soul of the half-southern
girl was apt at times to hanker wistfully
after a more sense-satisfying worship
than that to which the last six years had
habituated her.

A few days later came the dance.

It was to be a large one, including most of
the county people. The house was turned
nearly upside down, and Lady Dumbarton's
groans over the frivolity of the world — possibly
accentuated, as Mrs. Wilding observed
somewhat maliciously to her daughter, by the
sight feeling of discomfort unavoidably imported
into even the best regulated of small

households on such occasions — increased in
number and severity. She declined to be present
when the evening arrived, alleging her inability
to sympathise with entertainments of
the kind ; and unconscious of the secret relief
her decision afforded to her relations.

It was the first occasion on which Detta
had been present at a dance since the days of
her childhood. Then, in Carnival time, Vino
had sometimes led her for a treat into some
large, well-lighted room where the masquers
were madly twirling and flinging themselves
about. The dancers to-night were of a different
order, both as regarded their dress and-mode
of action ; but Detta fancied that the
Carnival masquers had enjoyed themselves
more. There was a solemnity about some of
these guests, especially the gentlemen, which
seemed unsuitable to the occasion. She herself,
though quiet and graceful in her movements,
yet danced with that light-hearted ease and
vivacity which gives pleasure to the onlooker,
as appearing the spontaneous expression
of youth and happiness. She was a little
silent without being exactly shy ; and the

gentle gravity of countenance wliicli yet appeared
compatible with so much genuine
girlish enjoyment, was perhaps one of her
greatest charms. She was quite unconscious
that she was the principal attraction of the
room ; but Eveleen had soon possessed herself
of the fact, which, with her customary generosity,
she made a matter of much exultation*

Mama," she exclaimed before the evening
was half over, " Detta is the belle of our
dance. There is no one equal to her. Logic
how all the men are running after her ! I
declare not one of my old admirers remains
true to me ; always saving and excepting
poor dear Sir Peter, who, I suppose, has not
brains enough to see how much more beautiful
and fascinating she is than I."

Men always run after the last novelty,"
remarked Mrs. Wilding a little drily. " Good
looks are a matter of individual taste. A
dark, foreign-looking girl like Detta is unusual,
and therefore sure to be made much of
at first."

For Mrs. Wilding did not fully reciprocate
Eva's enthusiasm, nor feel the same unalloyed

satisfaction in the fact that a homeless, penniless
niece should eclipse her oAvn long-admired
child. However, so lone' as Sir Peter remained
true, the desertion of lesser stars was a matter
of minor importance. If only Eva could be
persuaded not to snub the wretched man so
persistently, he would, Mrs. Wilding felt assured,
have promptly laid his title, his-handsome
property, and his seven thousand a year, at
the tiresome girl's feet. He was not so good
a match as Beresford Conway, nor could she
ever feel the same regard for him that she
entertained for the latter ; but people must
take things as they came, and, as the best ap-«
feared unattainable, she was prepared to be
fully satisfied with the second best. Eva had
however, at present, no idea of putting up
with second bests of any sort, and the manner
one of obvious indifference and good-humoured
mockery — in which she treated her
adorer this night — now bringing him to her
side with a smile, anon casting him into the
depths of despair by a studied coolness — was
really enough to disgust that gentleman with
his suit, and to justify the irritation of her

watchful mother. It was a little annoying to
Mrs. Wilding to perceive the attentions bestowed
upon her niece by Beresford Conway.
As usual on such occasions, Mr. Conway did
not join in the prevailing pastime with the
unseemly ardour of the more juvenile guests.
But, as usual, he engaged himself to a lady for
each dance, giving her a languid turn or two,
alternating with a cup of coffee or an ice, and
a pause of still more languid conversation.

As his exertions, however, seemed to satisfy
his partners, there was little incentive for him
to attempt more. When a man is young,
good-looking, the son of an earl, and the possessor
of unknown thousands, it would surely
be a work of supererogation for him to condescend
to the art of making himself agreeable.
Nature has, in fact, already done that part
of the business for him — he is made agreeable,
without any self-participation in the matter.

Mr. Conway had been taking one of his slow
turns with Detta, secretly dissatisfying her by
his want of vivacity in the performance; and,
having in his own opinion fulfilled the more
laborious part of his obligations, had found

his partner a clair and sunk into another
beside her.

Ten daA's or more spent together in the
same house had brouij^ht about a certain
degree of intimacy between the two ; and
Detta held her fashionable companion in
none of the respectful admiration evidently
entertained towards him by some of the
younger and simpler maidens present. She
was, on the contrary, a little inclined, I fear,
to judge him uncharitably, to consider his
dignified self-importance as mere conceit, and
his deliberate mode of speech as affectation.

You are very soon tired," she observed
as he leant back with an exhausted air ; "I
am afraid you cannot be verj^ strong."

"Do you want to go on dancing? It is
very comfortable here."

I could not be so cruel as to rouse you
again."

I shall be roused directly, if I don't take
care," he remarked with gentle irritation.
That old — a — woman, Mrs. Hilton Thorny
has been eyegiassing me for the last
quarter of an hour, and this is the first place

I have found where I can avoid her basilisk
glance."

"Why should you wish to avoid her
glance? "

Well, you see there are three — Thorny
daughters. They are all short of
partners. And, having been twice to her
house this season, the old mother seems to
think it — my duty to dance with them all
round."

Then the quickest way would be to get
through your duty at once."

That's impossible ! "

Why so ? "

Well, first because I never do my duty,
and secondly, because the Thorny croft family
are an awful lot of bores. By Jove ! if she
hasn't changed her seat, and brought me
within range again! She don't — a — approve
of my sitting so long by you."

What can it matter to her ? " said Detta.

"She won't succeed in ousting me, however,"
he continued, "I always do as I please."

But," she observed, turning towards him —
whether sarcastic or in earnest he could not

tell — " if by so simple an action you can give
so much pleasure to four people, you must
indeed be considered a liapp}^ person, must
you not ? "

Happy ? Well, I don't know. At present
I am not unhappy, sitting here."

Then," she said, half rising, " I cannot
allow others to suffer through me."

"Which means," said Beresford, " that you
are tired of me ? "

I always mean what I say," was her reply.
Go and do your duty, Mr. Conway."

Not so," he replied ; " I shall sit here.
Pleasure before all things is my motto."

Then I am sorry for you," she said, as
she put her hand within the arm of the new
partner who had come to claim her.

It was nearly an hour later when Mr.
Conway again approached her. Detta's
nimble feet were beginning in reality to
tire a little now, and she had no objection
this time to a seat beside her companion.

What did you mean'' he asked presently,
^' by saying that you were sorry for me ?
Were you serious or in fun ? "

You have never been considered a subject
f jr pity before ? " side demanded, smiling
demurely.

•• Well, I don't know that I have. I believe
— a — that I have always been held rather
a lucky fellow. You see I have had pretty
much my owen way in most things since I can
remember."

'' That is the reason why I pity you," she
said gravely. " Perhaps that is what has
made you tired of everything, as you say
you are, you know."

You think people with hard lives have
the best of it?"

I think people with something to do are
the happiest."

Ah ! very likely. Nobody ever does anything
in my family — anything useful, I mean.
My father reads. the papers, and goes out to
dinner, and trots down to the House of Lords
occasionally. My eldest brother runs about
the Continent and fills scores of sketch books
with dreadful daubs, and my worthy stepmother
occupies herself in fattening' up a
covey of spoiled lap-dogs, and consulting with

doctors innumerable regarding the delicacy
of lier nerves. We're a useless lot ; there's
not one of us could make a sixpence if he
were obliged to work, nor coin an original
idea if his life depended upon it. As for duty
and and all that sort of thing, 1 always think
it must be an awful bore."

His companion was silent, and by degrees
her expression of undisguised commiseration
brought a smile to his lips, exhausted as he
was by his own unusual eloquence.

I suppose now," he said, wishing to hear
her voice, " that your — surroundings were
quite different as a child ? " ,

Very," she replied emphatically. " There
was my dear old Maestro who played in the
orchestra at the Opera — -I think he is there
still — he loved his music, Ah, how he loved it !
And there was Annunciata — she was always
busy — she did all the household work, the
cooking and the cleaning, and everything.
And there were Pippo and Ino, her sons.
Pippo was at school every day ; but Ino, the
eldest, was a sculptor — at least he was beginning
to be one. He was hard at work all

day long ; and, when he came home, his
hands were never idle. He was always
modelling something or making a drawing for
the model. They say he models beautifully
now. I am sure he will be a great sculptor
some day. And, perhaps — he will come to
England this winter, and I shall see him
aofain."

She was leaning back, her hands lightly
clasped together, and her eyes half-closed, as,
with a happy smile that had much tenderness
in it, she recalled to herself these bygone reminiscences.


Beresford Conway gazed at her with an
interest in which was mingled curiosity,
and just a grain of some new feeling he
never remembered to have experienced before.
Was it jealousy?

Low old is this Ino of whom you speak? ''
he asked presently.

"He is six sears older than I. Let me see
by now he must be twenty-four."

And handsome, I suppose, like all
Italians ? "

Ah ! ses, he was always beautiful," she

replied, still regarding the past, and speaking
absently.

You were very fond of him, I suppose ? "

I shall always love Ino," replied Detta
with simple warmth. And then she suddenly
opened her eyes, and a faint flush rose
to her cheek, as she became conscious of his
gaze.

Shall we go back to the ball-room ? " she
began. But Beresford interrupted her.

Tell me, Miss Campbell," he said, " which
would you rather be, an Italian or an English
young lady ? "

"An English young lady," replied Detta.
But oh ! an Italian peasant," she added
quickly. " Their life is so full and free ; it
has so much more change and warmth, and
sunlight than those of this country."

And the young lady ? "

Ah ! she is just a prisoner in Italy ; there
is no largeness or freedom in her life, as
with English girls. She must not stir out by
herself ; she knows nothing of the world, and
has no sympathy in its great events. Her
life and her thoughts get all narrow and

secluded. And-vvlien she comes to marry —
All ! then it is dreadful I "

Why so ? " asked Beresford, with an
involuntary" smile at the girl's earnestness.

They have no real choice," said Detta.
They know nothing about their future
husbands — sometimes even have not spoken
to them — before they are betrothed. In Italy
a girl has more proposals than in England.
If she come of a respectable family, and is not
disagreeable-looking, and has some trifling
dot (for the men there do not expect much
money with their wives) — then many gentlemen
will offer to marry her, without waiting
to know if she be amiable, or if her tastes are
suited to theirs. But they do not speak to
her. The 2^0 to her father, and make a
formal request for her hand." ^

And then the father chooses for her ? "

Not always. A kind father, if he approve
of a man, and thinks the match a suitable
one, lays the offer before his daughter, and
leaves the decision to her. But what can her
decision be worth when she has probably no
knowledge on which to form her opinion ? It

is often at random that she says yes or no ;
and sometimes lier lot is a very unhappy one.
There was the case of a young lady to whom
my old Maestro used to teach the violin. She
was a delicate, refined girl, very gentle and
timid, and with a passion for music. The
Maestro used to say she was the quickest
pupil he ever had. Her parents were not
rich, hut she was very beautiful. For a longtime
she would not marry. She said she
could not bear to trust herself to a stranger,
and that she was quite content with her father
and mother and her musical occupations.
She was three and twenty — quite old for an
Italian girl — when she married.

Her parents pressed her much upon the
point, and at last she gave way, and accepted
the Principe Argentine. She knew nothing
whatever about him, but she was of a romantic
disposition, and the title pleased her.
If she must marry at all, she thought she
would like to be a Principes. But he was
a hard, bad man. He cared nothing for art,
which was her one enjoyment in life ; he only
cared for wine and cards, and for his boon
VOL. I. 9

companions and their dissipated pleasures,
lie looked upon the Signorina Giulio as a
pretty toy, and soon wearied of this bride ; for
lie lead not the mind to enter into her aesthetic
pursuits, and she had not strong wit or
determination of character, to keep him from
returning to his old pursuits.

A few months after their marriage, he
began to illtreat her — to neglect her — and
some said, even to strike her — and, before
the sear was over, she and her babe were
laid together in the cemetery at Albany."

But hers was an extreme case? " enquired
Conway.

Everybody," replied Detta slowly, " cannot
die when they wish ; but such a state of
things makes many broken hearts ; or, what
is almost worse, ruins lives and hardens a
woman's heart."

I wonder," said Beresford, '' that the
Italian 3'oung ladies are not afraid to venture
upon matrimony "

It is the only way of getting out of the
cage, you see," she replied. " They long
to mix more in the world, and to have

more interest and power in their lives.
As soon as they are married, they
have some position, some authority ; they can
do pretty much as they like. Even an
Italian bringing up does not prevent a girl
domino' to use her wines."

And for the sake of the desired flight, she
will even put up with a husband ? "

It is the only way," replied Detta
seriously.

"After all," said her companion, after a
pause, " I don't see that there is much
advantage in the English style over the
Italian. Certainly an English girl often
thinks she has her own way, and decides for
herself ; but is it not generally a pleasing
delusion ? Most suitable marriages are
brought about by the agency of relatives or
the force of necessity ; and, where a couple of
fascinated fools become enamoured of each
other, their judgment is in truth suspended ;
and, under the glamour of what is called
falling in love, they know as little of each
other's real character as your friends in Italy,
and are even more likely to make a senseless

9*

choice." He leant back with a sigh, to
recover from the exertion of so unusually long
speech. But Detta's glance, as she turned
towards him, effectually roused him, although
no outward sign betrayed the fact.

You do not really think that ? " she asked,
with something approaching scorn in her
tones.

Think what ? " he asked, half amused.

That people cannot know each other
because they love one another ? "

Beresford paused and twirled his moustache
slowly.

I— a — have had so little experience in
these matters," he replied, probably bent
upon teazing his companion. " I fear I ama
very unsusceptible man myself. But it is
the opinion of the world in general."

And the world is always right ? "

Usually so, it seems to me. But then I
am not original myself, I have no enthusiasm
I generally receive accepted dogmas as
truths." Detta made no reply. "Do not
facts bear me out ? " he continued. " Look at
Eva — she hates Sir Peter Galloway, or thinks

she does, now ; but, as sure as we sit here,
she weill give herself up into his hands some
day."

She will not ! " exclaimed Detta. " She
shall not ! Why should you think so ? "

Because her mother is bent upon it, and
because Sir Peter is bent upon it ; and
because, though Eva is cleverer than both of
them put together, they are more — a —
obstinate. She will accept her fate of her
own accord soon. And then," he murmured,
"it will be Pegasus harnessed to a mule."

It would be a shame," said Detta. " How-can
Aunt Fanny wish it ? He has no manners
he is stupid -"

'' Bucolic ? " suggested her companion drily.
'' You are young, Miss Campbell. Do you
not know that good breeding and brains are
unnecessary where a man has eight or ten
thousand a year?"

Por there was not, nor ever had been, any
great cordiality of feeling between Mr.
Conway and the young baronet.

T THINK," said Detta, "you are rather

X t'oolisli to-night, Eva."

It was two or three days subsequent to the
ball, and Eveleen had been paying her
cousin's room a last visit before retiring for
the night. This was no unusual step on
her part ; but Benedetta, who was by no
means deficient in penetration, had been
struck by certain peculiarities in Eva's
manner, which convinced her either that
something had happened to put the latter
out, or that something weighed upon her
mind, wdiicli she was desirous, but did not
know how, to communicate.

You have been locking and unlocking
my dressing-case for five minutes, Eva," she
remarked, " and have asked me three or four

times what I mean to wear when we go to
lunch at Sir Peter Galloway's tomorrow.
You don't really care a fig, any more than I
do, whether I wear my brown cashmere or
my black velveteen, and it cannot do you
any real good to break the lock of my box ;
though, if it relieves your feelings, pray goon.
What is it ?"

Eveleen turned round, laughing a little
awkwardly, as she faced her cousin.

It's that, my dear — just that," she said ;
'^ the luncheon party."

I suppose," and Delta looked at her
closely, '' you mean the host of the luncheon
jmrty ? "

Quite so, my dear. What a clever girl
you are ! I have no objection whatever to
luncheon in the abstract. I think it is rather
a good institution in its way."

But you object to Sir Peter Galloway ?
I knew that before ; and it does not astonish
me. Why should you worry yourself about
it, Eva ? "

Well, you see," said Eveleen, pulling in
and out the stopper of a scent bottle which

(Stood upon the dressing-table, " the matter is
not quite so easy to dispose of as j^ou think."

Has he proposed to you, Eva ? "

He has, my dear ; yesterday. It was all
I could do to stop him at the ball ; and you
know how he has been pottering over here
every day since. The bother of it was really
wearing me to shreds ; so, as he would not
be put off speaking, I thought I had better
let him have his own way, and get it over
as quickly as possible. But, bless you, my
dear, I never saw so obstinate a man in all
my life ! He wouldn't take No, and insisted
that I should think over it, and that he should
ask me again, which I told him was a most
foolish plan, as I was sure I should never like
him ; and that, if I was so weak-minded as
to be bullied into saying anything else, he
would probably repent of it as much as I
should."

Detta looked at her cousin gravely.

You should not have said that," she
.remarked ; " you should have been firm in
telling him you meant your No."

"My dear," said Eva, with a short laugh,

I was as firm as all the Fates put together,
until they badgered me nearly out of my
senses."

They ? " enquired Detta, quickly ; " who
else ? "

Why, mamma, of course."

And Eveleen finally jammed the stopper
into the bottle, and came towards the fire.

There was a minute's silence. Then Detta
approached her cousin, speaking earnestly —

"You will not do it, Eva?" she said.
You will not allow yourself to be persuaded
into marrying a man whom you dislike — a
man like Sir Peter ? "

I don't know that I do dislike him,
particularly," returned Eveleen. " And after
all," she continued, somewhat irritably, "I
can't see why you and Beresford should
despise him so. He isn't deformed, or an
idiot ; and a young man with his advantages
does not often go long a-begging."

What does that matter to you ? " asked
Detta. " He would not suit you ; you would
be miserable with him."

My dear," said Eva, with another laugh,

you forget how old I am. I am past the
dajT-s of romance."

Detta made no response.

"Many people say," went on lier cousin,
that the happiest marriages are where
people begin with no false illusions. I
should certainly have none with Sir Peter ;
and," she added, half under her breath, as if
to herself, "I have treated him shamefully
and he is very devoted — and poor mamma
does so wish it."

It is a wrong to Aunt Fanny," said Detta,
to think she would wish anything not for
your happiness."

Poor mama ! Yes," said Eveleen, affectionately.
"But she is persuaded it is for
my happiness. She has always spoilt me ;
and I have never done anything to oblige her
all my life long."

"But, Eva," said her cousin, "you puzzle
me. Don't you believe in abstract right and
wrong ? "

I am not good, like you, Detta. " You
are a dear little simple-minded, single-hearted
girl — you mustn't expect me to look at-things

as you do. I am a worn-out-worldly
creature."

And she sighed.

I am not good, and you are not worn out
or worldly," replied Detta. " I am sure you
respect yourself too much to marry any one
without caring for them.

It seems odd," remarked Eveleen, half
pathetically, "to hear you say such things.
"•I have always heard that in Italy, ladies and
gentlemen marry from convenience, not love.
And I thought," she added, smiling, " everything
Italian was perfect in your eyes."

My father was an Englishman," replied
Benedetta gravely. It was a remark that
constantly rose to her lips when the conversation
took a turn relative to the respective
merits of the two countries. " But, child
though I was when I left him, the Maestro
sometimes spoke to me on this subject. Ill-assorted
marriages were common enouoli in
Eome,and they always seemed to give him pain.
'Piccola,'lie once said to me when I had been
telling him some of 'Nunciata's gossip about a
young bride whom we all knew by sight, but

whom lie knew as an acquaintance — ' be careful,
before you marry, to know your future
husband well. The most miserable marriages
are not always between the worst, but between
the least congenial people. Your father
would probably have been a great man had
your mother lived. At any rate, he would
not have sunk to his grave under the weight
of disappointment.' "

Mama is very different from what your
father was, I think," observed Eveleen. " If
it hadn't been for her, Sir Peter would have
been sent to the right-about long ago."

"Did you ever care for anybody, Eva?"
asked her cousin suddenly

The colour rushed over Eveleen's fair face
and neck ; and when she answered it was with
a half-angry impatience.

Bless you, child, all we old maids have
our romances ! Of course I thought I did —
many years ago. But it all came to an end,
as silly dreams are apt to do ; and I have been
practical wisdom itself ever since. We
carried it on for months — it was a loiio- afhxir.
But mama wouldn't hear of it, and indeed she

was right. I didn't realise then, as I do now,
that a soldier's pay and three hundred a year
Averse doubtful guarantees of domestic bliss, let
alone receipted bills "

Then you know you can care for someone,"
said Detta, mercilessly. " Eva, mia,
think of him now, and of what you felt at
that time ; and surely you will know better
than to fancy you could ever be happy with
Sir Peter ? "

Eveleen turned aside her head, and Detta
saw how the hand which lay upon the mantelpiece
trembled.

You had better let me be worldly in uiv
own way," she murmured. " I shall not be
doing worse than many other women, I daresay."


I won't let you ! " exclaimed her cousin.
Tell me you will say No to this man tomorrow.
Tell me you will be firm. He is not
worthy of you ; he swears, and he has no
thoughts on any subject except horses. And
you have no love for him — how should you
have ? Tell me ! " she repeated, her arms about
her cousin's neck.

The face that she kissed was flushed and
moved, but smiling with audacious mischief.

After all," said Eva, " you are a silly
o^irl. You would «fet no end of fun out of mv
house, if I were Lady Galloway." Then she
suddenly met her companion's earnest eyes,
and her own filled with tears.

'• Why do sou care so much about me,
child ? I am not worth it," she said hastily.
You had better let me follow my own
nature."

It is not your own nature," replied Detta.
"And I love you."

Well, console yourself, little girl ; I don't
know that I ever could have swallowed Sir
Peter, and I think I can promise now to resist
almost any pressure, with you and my cousin
Beresford to back me up."

Benedetta breathed a sigh of relief. *' Ah,
I am glad," she said. " It is quite settled,
is it not ? "

Eveleen lashed a little. " What an odd
child sou are ! " she said, passing her hand
caressingly down her cousin's thick dark hair.
Sometimes you are so simple and innocent.

that one would scarcely give you credit for
your eighteen years ; and at other times you
talk like a moral compendium in three
volumes ! "

I do not care what I talk like, so long' as
you promise not to marry Sir Peter ! " responded
Detta. " Good-night, Eva ! *' And then
she whispered in a low voice, " Dream of the
old love to-night, Carina ! "

But the dreams came long before Eveleen
Wilding was asleep or in bed. There was a
little tender softened look upon her face as she
sat up that night, her hands clasped before
her, gazing into the orange embers of hey:
bed-room fire, living over again for a time
that past which Benedetta's words had recalled.
A happy, silly, childish past, long put
away and forgotten — at least, so she would
have said to herself a few days ago — but now
recurring with a vivid remembrance of every
detail, and surrounded by a halo which must
surely have been evoked by an unconscious
contrast between the real old love and the
false new one.

After all, she was not so hardened as she

tliousflit. How absurd it was that this old
tenderness should revive after s j many years,
as if for the purpose of protesting against the
counterfeit thing which she had half thought
of foisting into its place ! It suddenly seemed
to her as if it were yesterday, and not six
years ago, since their last parting on that
stormy April day, when she had walked with
him towards the gate and they had said goodbye
beneath the trees. How well she recalled
every line upon his face and every word he
had said as he bent down and took both her
hands within his own. ' You are the only
woman in the world to me, Eva,' he was
saying, while the wind blew the fair hair off
his forehead, and caught her cloak in its
eddying, ' But, because I love you so much, I
can release you, knowing that it is best so for
you. I was selfish ever to speak to you ; but
0, my love, there are times when feelings will
betray themselves, and words will out against
one's will. And, however long it be, I will
never ask any other to be my wife while you
are single.'

Oh ! what an chins heart she had borne

as she returned slowly homewards, knowing
that she had seen the last of Arthur Drew !
The very thought of it now brought a pathetic
wonder to her heart, and a sadness which was
less regret over the lost lover, than over her
own lost power of loving. Yet somehow, that
night's retrospect added force to her cousin's
persuasions, and placed Sir Peter's chances at
once and for ever in the descending scale.

VOL. I. 10

SIR PETER PUT DOWN.

As might naturally be supposed, the expedition
next day to Milton Court, Sir
Peter Galloway's, had not much attraction in
the eyes of Eva Wilding. Indeed, it may be
asserted that she looked forward to it with
feelings of decided aversion not unmingled
with nervousness ; she longed for the excuse
of a headache, or any other small indisposition
; but, notwithstanding a somewhat
short night, she rose in the morning provokingly
well and fit for the day's duties, as
is usually the case with any one who has a
strong wish to shirk them. There was nothing
to be done but to go through with it, she felt ;
and this time she was determined that there
should be no mistake about the matter, and
that Sir Peter should be made to understand,

once for all, that any further discussion was
absolutely useless. Yet as she stepped into
the carriage that morning, in company with
her mother and cousin, Eveleen had some
sympathy with the feelings of a criminal going
to execution. It was not only that she knew
Sir Peter to be a somewhat rough, coarse
young man, whose behaviour, when disappointed
or irritated, might possibly be apt to
get the better of the usual conventional restraints
— it was perhaps also that she knew or
fancied she knew that he might think he had
not been treated altogether with fairness in
the business. For her part she had never intended
to deceive him — in fact she had often
been rude enough in her conduct towards him
to disgust nine out of ten men in such a
position — but she had more than a suspicion
that her mother's behaviour had not been
equally open and honest. She fancied that
Mrs. Wilding, with her conciliatory manners
and little flattering ways, had at times included
her own self in her polite attentions,
and had given Sir Peter to understand that
she was an eccentric girl, whose feelings

10*

towards him were by no means so uncomplimentary
as her manner might lead him to
suppose. Anyhow, she knew the young
Baronet well enough to feel some uncomfortable
misgivings as to the mauvais quart
heure she would probably have to pass
through. With the exception of Mrs. Wilding,
whose spirits were at their highest, and who,
ignorant of the revolution that had taken
place in her daughter's mind, hoped the best
from Eva's patient acceptance of her former
remonstrances, and her present thoughtful
and serious demeanour — no one of the party
can be said to have undertaken the day's
expedition with any particular sense of enjoyment.
Detta, after the counsel she had given,
so hostile to his wishes, felt something of a
traitress in partaking of the young man's
hospitality ; while, as for Beresford Conway,
he grumbled loudly at the loss of a day's
hunting, and the prospect of three or four
hours spent in uncongenial company, going
merely as a personal favour to his cousin
}^anny, who objected, she said, to the look of
three women entering a room alone.

It was a lovely day, however — clear, crisp
and sunny — and, by the time they reached
the Court, even Eva had plucked up anew her
spirit and prepared herself to meet the worst
with equanimity. Mr. Conway too, who had
ridden over and joined them in the drive, was
bound to confess that the lunch was far less
dreary than he had expected. Sir Peter was
evidently on his best behaviour, and not
nearly so loud and pragmatical as usual — Mr.
Lumsden, his brother-in-law, on a visit to the
Court, was an inoffensive little man, and his
wife a pretty though faded and affected
woman — whilst the two other guests, a
brother and sister from a house in the neighbourhood,
were really quite agreeable people.
Mr. Carew devoted himself to Detta, whilst
his lively sister employed herself in drawing
out to the full Beresford Conway's somewhat
languid powers of conversation. Eva felt,
with momentary irritation, that these strangers,
as well as everybody else, appeared to consider
her attention and conversation the
property by rights of her host.

But the mauvais quart cohere was still to

come, and came only too soon. It was cruel
of Beresford, Eveleen thought, when, after
lunch, a stroll in the gardens was proposed, to
keep so close to Miss Carew's side, and of
Detta to walk on contentedly with Mr. Carew,
without throwing even a glance of commiseration
in her direction. Mrs. Lumsden had
been left in the house, and Eveleen knew her
mother well enough to place(; no reliance on
her, nor to feel the least astonishment,
although a little prophetic dismay, when Mrs.
Wilding took the first opportunity of turning
down a sidewalk, ostensibly to examine some
botanical specimen, but really in order to
leave the young couple to themselves. How
she got through the next few minutes, or what
were the' exact words that passed between herself
and Sir Peter,Eveleen could never distinctly
remember afterwards. She was too confused,
almost terrified by the young man's anger, and
by his repeated assertion that she had played
fast and loose with him, and made a fool of him.
I am sure. Sir Peter," she repeated vaguely;
I never wished to make a fool of sou."
And, despite her discomfort, a half-humorous

idea would present itself to her mind, that the
evil deed he attributed to her was an impossible
one, since nature had been beforehand
with her. She had no clear recollection of
how it came to pass that at length she found
herself alone, but she remembered clearly
enough the relief of that moment's solitude, and
the irresistible desire she let to laugh, when,
at another turn, she again encountered her
mother and Mr. Lumsden, and noted the look
of incredulous horror and dismay that overspread
that lady's features at the sight of her
solitary appearance. No reference of course
could be made to the subject in the presence
of a stranger, but Eva felt intuitively that
here was another iiiaavais quart cVlieure in
store for her. She had too an uncomfortable
consciousness that the facts of the case must
be patent to Sir Peter's brother-in-law, and she
felt an impatient disgust of her position, and
an intense longing to be home again, even
under the maternal lash.

Meanwhile the party were moving towards
the house, and as the ladies reentered
for a cup of tea, the gentlemen

turned off to visit the stables. Sir Peter
lead re-appeared in company with Miss
Carew and her escort, but his words had been
few, and his face was black as night. It was
patent to the three men who accompanied
him in his tour of the stables, that the young
baronet must have just received some severe
shock to his vanity and that his temper was
not improved by it. His horses were his
hobby, but even the perfections of !the pet
hunters failed now to evoke his usual bombastic
form of conversation. He was taciturnity
itself, save when some slight incident
permitted him an opportunity of swearing
profusely at one of his grooms. It was not
an agreeable inspection. Little Mr. Lumsden
looked positively nervous, as his eyes rested
on the gloomy features of his big brother-in-law,
while Mr. Carew took the earliest opportunity
of escaping to the more congenial
society of the ladies.

As for Beresford Conway, we hope he will
not be deemed inhuman if we confess that the
sio-ht of Sir Peter's furious countenance
aroused a sweet sense of enjoyment in his

breast. There had been an involuntary
antagonism, a personal uncongeniality, from
the first between the two ; and it must be
allowed that the Honourable Beresford had a
malicious pleasure in watching the discomfiture
of his companion.

Anybody like a game of billiards ? "
enquired Sir Peter gruffly, as they returned
through the out-buildings and passed into the
billiard room.

i don't care if I do," was Mr. Conway's
reply, as he began to take the cues one by one
from the rack and examine their points. " But
you, my dear fellow," he continued, with an*
apparently friendly air, but with a glance
of subdued relish in his sleepy eyes, " the
ladies will miss you ; I must not take up
A our time."

Ladies be hanged !" said Sir Peter politely.
I've had enough of infernal flirts and matchmakers
for one day."

Mr. Conway bowed with a sarcastic courtesy
that did not escape even the dull perceptions
of his companion. Neither was Sir Peter
blind to the lurking smile that rose to the

corners of this guest's mouth ; and this latent
fury broke forth.

Ah ! " he said, " you can afford to
laugh at me now. Perhaps you'll be made
to laugh at the other side of your face some
day. I'm not such a fool as not to see
their game. I wish you joy of your
bargain ! "

May I ask," enquired Beresford in his
lowest and softest tone, " if your remarks
refer to my cousin. Miss Wilding ? Pardon
the question."

You may apply my remarks to her or to
any other double-dealing d — d coquette you
like ! " returned Sir Peter concisely. " And
be hanged to your dandy affectations."

Mr. Conway's blue eyes rested calmly on
his companion's flushed face.

It is not, I suppose, etiquette," he asked,
to knock a man down in his own house —
even a man who insults his guests ? "

You had better try it on ! " retorted the
infuriated young baronet, pushing him roughly
aside as he passed.

The next moment he was astonished to find

himself lying on the flat of this back upon the
floor.

It's an awkward thing' said Beresford,
turning towards Sir Peter's brother-in-law ;
but there are cases where there is — a —
really no alternative."

Mr. Lumsden looked aghast.

o

"It is unwarrantable, really unwarrantable,"
he stammered, stooping to assist his
fallen relative ; " I don't understand it at
all."

No ? " asked Beresford. " Well, perhaps
under the circumstances, that is — a little
surprising." ^

Sir Peter had by now raised himself into a
sitting position.

-' 13 you ! I'll pay you out some day

for this I " he exclaimed.

'was soon as you like," returned Conway.
"You can come over any day and
try your hand on me, so long as you
keep it— and yourself — out of my cousin's
sight. But you don't want any more to-day,
do you ? "

Confound your insolence, no ! You've

broken mj head in already. I'll have you up
for assault."

Then," said Beresford, turning to Mr.
Lumsden, " perhaps you will be so kind as to
make my adieux to Mrs. Lumsden, and to
thank her for her kind entertainment of us.
All things considered — and if she's — a — a
devoted sister, she may prefer my cone to
be sent through you."

When, a few minutes later, Mr. Lumsden
joined the drawing-room circle, he was alone.

Where are Peter and Mr. Conway ? "
asked his wife.

Mr. Conway was called away on business,
and begged me to say good-bye to you," he
returned, delivering his message with some
awkwardness, and totally ignoring the
reference to his brother-in-law. He was
uncomfortably conscious that not only his
wife's eyes, but those of most of their visitors,
were fixed upon him in surprised enquiry ;
also that his speech was followed by a perceptible
pause, probably indicative of a
suspicion of the truth on their part.

Sir Peter did not reappear ; but no one

remarked upon the fact, and shortly afterwards
the party broke up.

Mrs. Wilding's farewells, on taking her
departure, were of the most cordial description
; but, almost before she had seated
herself in the carriage, a black cloud of
portentous meaning appeared upon her brow,
and she preserved an ill-omened silence
throughout the drive home. No sooner had
they reached the Manor, than she sought out
the delinquent and demanded an explanation.

It was not often that angry words passed
between Mrs. Wilding and her daughter, but
on this occasion a heavy storm burst over*
Eveleen's head.

It is enough to break one's heart ! "
exclaimed the elder woman, when the latter
had stated briefly but truthfully the part she
had taken and to which she intended to adhere
in the matter of Sir Peter's suit — " you insult
every man who pays you attentions. I
believe you do it on purpose to spite
me ! You knew I had set my heart upon
this, and so of course you put yourself
against it."

Mamma, you know I tried all I could to
come round to your wishes. Though wliy
you should think Sir Peter such a desirable
son-in-law, I fail to see."

I don't suppose," remarked Mrs. Wilding
tartly, " that the sentiment would appear so
very singular in the eyes of any one, except a
conceited girl."

"Really," observed her daughter with a half
laugh," you seem very anxious to get rid of
me, mama.

You are an ungrateful girl 1 " exclaimed
Mrs. Wilding, the tears in her eyes. " You
know one reason," and she paused truthfully,
why I wished you to take Sir Peter, was
that you would then be always near me."

Nobody but you, wanted me to have him,
mama ; everyone else dislikes him."

Who didn't want you ? " enquired her
mother. " Detta, I suppose ? Did she advise
you against it ? "

She certainly gave me her opinion."

What right has she to give her opinion ?
It is exceedingly impertinent of her to put
herself forward in such a matter. It has

nothing to do with her, and she is a mere
child."

She is a very sensible and good child'
said Eva.

Mrs. Wilding tapped the floor impatiently
with her foot. " So it was she who persuaded
you against it ? You are a goose, Eva, to
allow yourself to be led by a romantic girl of
eighteen."

Eveleen made no reply ; and her mother
continued, with increasing indignation, " I did
not expect such ingratitude of Benedetta — a
mere pauper like her, taken into my house
out of charity, to fly in my face and cabal
against my wishes ! "

Mama, it is not fair to call her a pauper.
You know she has something of her own."

A paltry forty pounds a year — what is it ?
which of course I would not touch, as you
know, Eva. But, if she is going to behave in
this way, she had better look out for another
home ! "

"Mama, don't go into a passion. You
know you are fond of Benedetta, and she of
you. She wasn't the only person who was

flattering enoui:^!! to think me too brood for
Sir Peter. Beresford thought just the same
about it."

Ah ! " said Mrs. Wilding, her face clearing
as if by magic, " of course he would ! He
wouldst care much for the Manor if you
were gone, Eva.'^

We are very good friends," remarked Eva,
carelessly.

He is very fond of you," said Mrs. Wilding
tentatively, almost timidly.

But Eva laughed her clear ringing laugh.
Mama, you are gone mad on match-making
to-day ! Do put all such ideas out of your
head, at any rate as regards Beresford and
myself."

You know best, my dear," said her mother
half offended.

"Yes, mama, I do know. Any one with
eyes in their head can see that Beresford is
head over ears in love with Detta."

With Detta ! " exclaimed her mother
aghast. "Nonsense, Eva, you are too imaginative."


The intelligence was undoubtedly a blow to

lier, and probably added not a little to the
feelings of irritation which were beginning to
make themselves felt in her breast against her
orphaned niece.

'Benedetta is an interloper,' she said to
herself, with a sore feeling, as she left
her daughter's room. ' Her presence here
disturbs my plans and destroys my comfort.'


Up to this time she and her niece had been
on the most cordial and friendly of terms, but
from this date Benedetta began to feel that
there was some indefinite change in her aunt's
manner, and some secret suspicion harboured
against her in her heart. It did not take her
long to discover this, for she was sensitive to
a fault in her appreciation of the looks and
conduct of those she loved ; but she was too
proud to ask for an explanation where she
knew she had done nothing wrong, and
knowing Mrs. Wilding's impetuous disposition,
hoped that the cloud might soon
blow over.

But it was this perhaps which induced her,
towards the end of Lady Dumbarton's visit,

VOL. I. 11

to accept an invitation from that lady to visit
her shortly in the north of England. Lady
Dumbarton had asked her to return at once
with her ; but this Benedetta explained, in
her little peculiar way, she could not do.

I might miss Ino," she said, " and that
would never do. It would disappoint him so
terribly, and me too, for Oh ! I do long so to
hear all the news, and how the Maestro goes
on. I shall know in a few days now, most
likely, and then I will write to you at
Stentor."

Lady Dumbarton was not altogether satisfied
with this decision. She was an exceeding
strict and proper-minded old lady, to
whom not even the fact of extreme intimacy
in childhood appeared to justify her niece in
thus awaiting the advent of a young man with
so much affectionate eagerness, and arranging
her plans in accordance with his.

It is a pity," she remarked to her sister,
that these unfortunate Italian acquaintances
cannot be dropped. After a six years' separation,
livings in England amongst educated
people, one would have thought that Bene-delta

might have forgotten her peasant
friends."

They are a low lot," said Mrs. Wilding.
"I suppose it's in her blood, and she can't
help it."

For, for once in her life, Mrs. Wilding,
owing to the new irritation against her niece,
was disposed to agree with her usually antagonistic
visitor.

It all comes of Edward marrying beneath
himself," remarked Lady Dumbarton severely.
As for this young man, who, or what is
he ? "

An artist, or a fiddler, or something of •
that sort," returned Mrs. Wilding, with aristocratic
indifference. " I'm sure I can't remember."


"Anyhow, a most undesirable companion
for Benedetta,"

"He is very good-looking," remarked Mrs.
Wilding, a sudden vision of the southern face,
with its classic-cut features and boyish sweetness
— as she saw it that afternoon six years
ago at Miss Horton's school — recurring to her
mind. " At least, he was."

11*

Worse and worse," said her half-sister
solemnly. " Good Heavens ! only imagine if
Benedetta were to fancy herself in love with
him. She is painfully romantic."

It would be a dreadful thing," said Mrs.
Wilding, to whom however the idea presented
itself at the present moment not altogether asa
misfortune without mitigations. " But," she
added curtly, " I don't see the romance in her.
I only wish Eveleen were half as ready to set
her cap at a good match."

Lady Dumbarton was, in her way, a just
woman. She was also, in her way, fond of her
youngest niece.

That is an unfounded remark, Fann}^,'*
she said decisively. " In my opinion, Detta is
not the girl to set her cap at any man. As
for Eveleen, considering your bringing up,
she is, perhaps, less entirely worldly than
might have been expected. But the utterance
of such a wish — I fear, a true one — is only too
lowering to yourself."

"Ah! well," said Mrs. Wilding, "some
people say what they think, and others say
what they think will sound well. I belong to

the former class, though I believe the latter
get on best m the world'' And so the interview,
which, contrary to most interviews
between the two sisters, began in harmony,
ended as usual in a declaration of war.

-^^w^-^-

GOOD ADVICE.

D Etna's letter arrived sooner than lie expected,
and several days before Lady-dumbarton's
departure northwards. It happened
also to be the day on which Beresford
Conway had at length decided to leave the
Manor. From day to day his departure had
been put off, until he had spent more than
three weeks at his cousin's house. Now, however,
he really was going ; and his horses had
preceded him that morning to that particular
part of Berkshire where he intended to spend
the rest of the hunting season. Benedetta
happened to be alone in the library when he
descended, a little earlier than usual, dressed
for dinner. She was looking out a book in
the shelves, softly humming an operatic air to
herself as she did so.

Can I assist you ? " lie asked, coming forward,
with perhaps a little secret disgust at
the inopportune joyousness of her look and
manner. For did not he himself feel a vague
and unusual regret this last evening of his
stay?
• " Oh, no, thanks," she said, " I really don't
know what I was looking for. I feel too happy
to settle to anything."

Why are you so happy ? " inquired Beresford,
who had not heard of the arrival of the
Eoman letter.

Ino is coming," she said, her eyes dancing.
He will be in England in a few days "

Ah," said Mr. Conw^ay, in his slowest and
most haw-haw manner ; " that is the young
man whose praises you sung to me the night
of my cousin's ball, I believe ? He seems a
great favourite of yours."

Of course he is," she replied. " He was
like a brother to me. And he wall tell me
all the home news, and about the dear
Maestro ! "

So you call it home still, do you ? " he
inquired curiously.

She blushed a little.

All," lie said, smiling, " when I think of
them — of Ino and Pi|)po, and the Maestro —
then Eome seems to me to be home again ; but
when I think of Eva," she paused, " and
the others — then England seems my
home."

But," he said provokingly, " there is no
one in England whose coming would cause
you so much joy as this Ino's ? "

She closed her book with a little gesture of
impatience.

I can't tell," she said. " Why do you
compare ?"

And Ino, I suppose," pursued Mr. Conway,
" will come down here at once to see
you ? "

Why, of course he will ! But he cannot
come often or stop long. He will be too busy
for that."

"Ah, I remember," said her companion,
he is the young man who is — my antipodes
one of the energetic serviceable bees of this
world, as compared to — a — the useless and
despicable drones like myself."

I never used such rude words," said Detta,
half vexed, half-puzzled by the latent sarcasm
of his manner.

Forgive me. I did not mean to accuse
you of impoliteness. But I think your sentiments
were to that effect."

She remained silent.

I perceive'' he said slowly, his eyes still
fixed upon her face, " that you will have no
respect for me, until I obtain some honest employment.
It must be a simple one, I fear,
for years of idleness, and natural deficiency
minimise the paths of occupation open to me.
Possibly," he continued languidly, "I should
be best suited for a club porter. I might — a
learn to run errands and open the door
when the hansoms drove up''

"I dont think," she retorted, '' that you
would ever do either well. You would be
late for all your errands, for I am sure you
could not run ; and, if you sat in the hall,
you would go to sleep instead of opening the
door."

Then," he said, " there is nothing left forme
but to end life as I began it. T may as

well go comfortably into Berkshire ; and if I
don't break my neck in the hunting-field,
re-appear in town in time for the season.
You see, Miss Campbell," he continued, a
look of humour in his eyes, " you are like
most reformers ; you put your finger upon
the evil and cry out for a remedy, buta
— when called upon, cannot suggest
any practical remedy. I am wise to be a
conservative."

Detta glanced suddenly towards him, whilst
the colour rushed into her face. He felt instinctively
'that she had something in her
mind which she was too shy to make known
to him.

Well ? " he asked smiling, " Have you
discovered my vocation ? Please tell me," he
added, as she hesitated.

Thus invited," Detta raised her clear dark
eyes full to his.

If you want to work," she said, " why
don't you do something for those poor people
of yours in London ? "

Mr. Conway looked somewhat taken
aback.

"Who told you of those poor people in.
London ? " he asked.

"Eveleen told me that you had property
there, and that some of it was amongst the
back slums of the City."

Did she tell you that I was a neglectful
landlord? " he asked, amused.

Benedetta's face was crimson ; but she stuck
to her colours manfully, although her words
evidently cost her an effort.

Eveleen told me very little about it, and I
did not ask. But I have been in London, and
I known what back slums are. I have driven
through them once or twice ; and Oh, the
people looked so wretched and starved and
sickly and bad, that I have longed to go and
do something for them. Are yours like
that ? "

Beresford Conway re-adjusted his eye-glass,
and looked perplexed.

I am afraid I can't tell you," he said ;
my agent looks after the property. I don't
know that I have ever been in the place
myself; but, judging from the situation,
your description is probably not far wrong."

Oh," said Detta, the colour again mounting
to her face with the eagerness of her
words, " then how can you leave them
so ? "

"I am afraid," he replied, observing her
closely, " I never thought much about it.
But what could I do. Miss Campbell ? I
can't take round a basket of tracts, nor even
basins of soup. I don't know much about what
ladies — a — call visiting the poor, but I fancy
it resolves itself chiefly into a combination of
those two acts of benevolence, does it not ? "

Benedetta, full of her warm-hearted young
earnestness, turned upon him an impatient
face, glowing with reproach.

Why do you sneer at everything ? " she
asked. " Do you do nothing for them ? "

Very little, I am afraid," he replied, still
watching her curiously, and totally forgetting
the fact of some considerable subscriptions
and rent remissions which had, from time to
time, been taken out of his pocket to relieve
the needs and necessities of the Whitechapel
poor. '• I beg your pardon," he continued,
with half quizzical humility. " Teach me

better, and I will-learn. What would you
do?"

There are such hundreds of things," she
exclaimed, breathlessly. " Why don't you
build them Coffee Houses and Reading
Rooms ? or better than all, give them really
good, healthy houses to live in — Model lodging
houses, or that sort of thing ? And
then," she continued, with growing enthusiasm,
" I would have a Eagged School for
the children, and Evening Lectures for the
men and women. And the drainage should
be perfect, of course. And there should be
washing troughs for the women, and no erfd
of pumps with fresh, sweet water ; and open
fountains for the poor over-worked horses
and cattle and stray dogs." She paused
suddenly. "I beg your pardon. I hope I
haven't been rude ? "

"Not at all," he replied.

"It is so easy to talk, is it not?" she added
with humility.

It is — a — very improving to listen," said
Mr. Conway.

As he spoke, he pulled out his pocketbook.

Let me see," he said, " your heads were
admirable, but somewhat numerous."

And he wrote down in his book : —
"Coffee Houses, Libraries, Eagged School,
Lectures, Drains, Pumps, Fountains, Model
Lodging-houses."

Is that all ? " he asked, placing the open
leaf before her.

You are making fun of me again," said
Detta.

There was no anger in her voice, but a
little genuine disappointment.

Nothing is further from my intentions,"
he replied, closing the book. " This leaf will
go up to my agent. He will probably object
to many of the reforms, but some of them he
will carry out, I daresay."

Detta had never looked more beautiful, at
any rate to her present companion, than now,
as she turned towards him, her face full of
joyous gratitude.

Do you really mean it ? " she asked.
How good you are to make up your mind
so quickly ! But why," she continued, a shy

pleading in her tone, " don't you make that
agent do what sou wish? "

Perhaps I may," replied Mr. Conway, a
little absently, holding for a moment in his the
hand that Benedetta, in her sudden access of
gratitude, had half unconsciously held out
towards him.

It was, perhaps, as well that the person who
entered the room at this moment, was none
other than Eveleen. Eva could be discretion
itself at times, specially when any pet project
of her own was in view. By nature, she had
a large heart and a generous mind. She
was totally free from those petty jealousies
which rankle in the breasts of so many
girls, and make it impossible for them to
regard with equanimity attentions paid to
another by an old admirer of their own,
even when they have no desire themselves
to transform that old admirer into a lover.
Eveleen had made up her mind that Detta
was the very wife to suit her cousin
Beresford ; while — as to the possibility of
Mr. Conway's failing to fascinate Dstta — she
might be excused for thinking (judging from

this career up to the present date) that a
contingency too remote for contemplation.
It was, perhaps, also excusable if Mr. Conway
himself possibly regarded the matter in the
same light.

He had never as yet met with any rebuffs
from the feminine world ; and, it having been
the general and openly expressed opinion of
society for fifteen years, that his attractions
were irresistible ; it was perhaps natural that
of late he had acquired the habit of acquiescing
in the opinion. It was not surprising
that Eveleen, entering when she did, should
feel her previous suspicions considerably
strengthened. She was in time to catch the
glow of fervour expressed upon Benedetta's
upturned face ; even to witness the sudden
loosening of the brief hand-clasp ; while her
quick vision fancied it detected an unusual
look in Mr. Conway's eyes — one more nearly
approaching to tenderness than she had
perhaps ever conceived it possible for those
somewhat inexpressive features to assume.
But, however important she deemed her
discoveries, Miss Wilding kept them to herself,

feeling only a little disgusted when, as time
wore on, Detta communicated to lier no
interesting confidences. But lier quickened
senses did not fail to overhear the next
morning Mr. Conway's good-bye to her cousin.
When you come up to Town," he said, " you
will have — a — to inspect the reforms, and see
if they are rightly carried out."

This speech puzzled Eveleen, as also did
the full cordiality of the answering smile
which rose to Detta's face ; and she began to
question herself, as to whether it might not be
possible that she had attached a more
romantic meaning to her young companion's*
blushing gratitude than the veritable one.

''^=-^-^W-^^-'^^

VOL. I. 12

A TAME SCULPTOR,

A FEW days after Mr. Conway's departure,
Lady Dumbarton, with her retinue of
companion, maid, and lap-dog, also left Ashley
Manor.

Benedetta had gained her own way, as
regarded delaying her visit to the North ;
and indeed, as Beresford Conway's shadow
faded in the distance, and Mrs. Wilding's
short-lived irritation calmed itself down, the
latter changed her opinion, and acquiesced
good-humouredly enough in the girl's natural
desire to meet her old playfellow. Eaffaelino
Bartolucci gradually began, in Mrs. Wilding's
eyes, to approve himself as by no means an
unsuitable companion for her niece Bene-delta.
After all, it was creditable enough
to the child that she should wish to keep
up old friends. " If there be one thing

more than another which I detest," she said
to her daughter Eva, " it is when people, who
have risen from the ranks, become too grand
for their old acquaintances. That is not true
gentility. I am glad that Benedetta is not
guilty of such snobbishness." Eveleen smiled
her little silent, half-sarcastic smile. She had
a less convenient memory, and had not 5^et
forgotten her mother's conversation on the
subject with Aunt Dumbarton. She guessed
pretty accurately what was in the wind
now, as she expressed it to herself ; but felt
no obligation to disturb her mother by interference
; and merely stood by with
curiosity to watch the course of coming
events.

But, if Mrs. Wilding was prepared beforehand
to regard the young Italian with feelings
of very modified disapproval, his first visit
changed her sentiments into those of almost
unqualified admiration. As Eva expressed it
to her friends, "Mamma and I have both
fallen head over ears in love with an idyllic
Eoman sculptor."

Six years had indeed greatly improved

12*

Eaffaello, both in manners and appearance.
His tall figure was still somewhat slightly
made ; but, in other respects, he seemed a
man in the prime of life. He had the same
deep, poetic eyes, the same white forehead and
curling black hair, and the same almost
perfect features ; but a thick black moustache
now shaded the lower part of his face,
and rendered it even more picturesque
than before. He had been thrown of late
years a good deal into society — the mixed
brilliant, intellectual society of Rome ; and,
by nature always a gentleman, had needed
little of such intercourse to acquire that
outward polish which is the visible sign of
social standing. He .was a man who would beat
home anywhere ; and always the same,
whether in the drawing-room of a princess, or
the cabin of a peasant ; and in the grace of
whose manner there was a gentle humility
which yet did not approach self depreciation.
He did not delay visiting his former little
companion ; and the morning after his arrival
in England was ushered into the drawing-room
at Ashley Manor.

His appearance at once won over Mrs.
Wilding, who received him graciously and
insisted on his remaining to luncheon. As it
happened, all three ladies were in the room
when he entered ; and Eveleen observed with
some curiosity the meeting between Detta
and her old friend. She noticed that the
young Italian, even while making his salutations
to the lady of the house, had allowed
an eager glance to wander for a moment
round the room, and that when Benedetta
came forward, her eyes sparkling, lips smiling,
and hands outstretched, that the colour
mounted into the young man's olive cheeks
with a flood of crimson, as, taking both her
hands in his, he bowed over them without a
word.

Why, Ino," she said simply, " I should
scarcely have known you with that great
moustache, it alters you so. Oh ! but it is
nice to see someone again from dear old
Eome. Six years ago, Ino — only fancy ! "

It is a long time," said Ino, as he bowed
towards Eveleen, and took, with ceremonious
respect, the hand she held out towards him.

"We must not be strangers, you know,"
said Eva, whose warm likings or disliking
were generally adopted at a first introduction.
" We are friends already. I have
heard so much of you, when Detta was a little
girl."

Ino blushed again, and his emotional face
expressed the surprise and gratitude he experienced
at these kindly greetings on all
sides. Were these the cold English of whose
hauteur he had heard so often — quite as much
from their own Bohemian compatriots in the
Eternal city as from his countrymen ? Could
anything be less stiff, more free and social,
almost affectionate, than the terms on which
he at once found himself in Mrs. Wilding's
house ? He had been prepared for snubbing,
to be endured for Detta's sake, and lo ! he met
with nothing but friendliness and encouragement.
Eaffaello was an unsophisticated,
humble sort of being, notwithstanding his
manly exterior and his good manner. He did
not allow for the whimsical impulses of the
fair sex all over the world, nor consider how
far an attractive appearance was calculated to

disarm hostility. Nor was lie likely, from this
nationality and bringing-up, to be in a position
to divine Mrs. Wilding's secret penchant
for a new and poetic lion, such as was the
possession of a talented 5^oung sculptor from
Eome, with features like the world-famed
statues of his own city, and a voice and
manner absolutely unique amongst the
denizens of her own more prosaic country.
His origin, she reflected, would be totally unknown
in London, and whatever the fashion
of his speech in his own country, his broken
English would, she decided, sound as refined
and bewitching to her friends as it did to herself.
Mrs. Wilding was in high good humour
that day, and acquiesced pleasantly when,
after lunch, Benedetta offered to take her old
playfellow for a walk. Ino's eyes sparkled at
the suggestion, which he had indeed been
loosing to make ; but, owing to personal
acquaintance with the strict manners of his
countrywomen, and the faint credence he had
given to statements of the greater freedom of
English girls, had not ventured to think
would be encouraged by the lady of the house.

Ah ! it is good to see you again, Ino," repeated
Benedetta, as side by side they paced
quickly on in the bright frosty air. " It seems
to make me feel again as if I were the little
Piccola that used to quarrel with Pippo in the
courtyard, and go rambling with you about
our dear old Eome ! "

As she spoke she held out her hand again
impulsively, and, gloved though it was, Vino
raised it to his lips.

It is a long time ago," he repeated softly.

That is not like a speech from an Italian,"
laughed Detta gaily, "to tell me I am growing
old ! "

Ah ! signorina mia, you have not yet
reached the full bloom of life. To one of
your age every advancing year brings but a
fresh charm."

What lady has taught you to make such
pretty speeches ? " asked Detta. " But, Vino,
there are two things I will have you do."

And they are ? " he asked.

The first, is to leave off calling me
signorina.' Why, it is ridiculous ! I was
never anything but little Detta to you."

But that is six years ago'*

Why should six years make any difference
between friends like you and me ? / am not
changed."

Ah ! *' exclaimed the young man, while a
flood of colour rushed into his cheeks, " but I
am ! " His words, however, were spoken
too softly for his companion to overhear.
"I will do as you ask, Detta," he replied
aloud.

"The other thing," she said, "is to give up
talking this stupid English. I must congratulate
you on the amount you have picked up ;
but Oh, Ino, I want to be back in Eome again
for the next hour ! So now," she continued,
suddenly falling into the tongue of her childhood,
" tell me about my dear, dear Maestro.
How is he?"

He is not ill'' said Ino, " but he is feeble.
He seems growing old before his time. He
has given up all work at the Orchestra now,
and only gives private lessons."

Is he lonely, Ino ? "

"He and I live together when I am in
Eome, and you know, Detta mia, he was

never a man to love much company. When
I go back, I will be with him again, if God
and my work permit of it."

I long to go to him," said Detta, the tears
rising to her eyes ; " Ino, does he not wish
to see me back, does he not want me sometimes
? "

"Does any one who has known the sunshine
not wish at times for its return ? " he
asked.

And the words, which would have been
affected in the mouth of an Englishman,
were the simple expression of thought in the
impulsive and imaginative Southerner.

But," he added, " he has grown used to
solitude. He never seems to be alone, for
his violin is always speaking to him when
no one else is by. Pippo is gone, you know.
Ah, I wish you could have seen Pippo
before he started. He has grown into such a
fine, strong, active young man. He is handsome
to look at, and as fair as an Englishman.
He has become gentle too now, and is quite
changed from the days when he used to teaze
our little Piccola so sorely."

And Piccola used to run for protection to
you," laughed Detta.

All, Dio ! " lie exclaimed earnestly.
Would I not protect you still through any
danger this earth could offer, and feel it too
much joy ? "

Detta smiled aofain. She thought Ino had
acquired the habit of saying soft speeches. It
did not strike her that her old companion intended
to convey any serious meaning by his
words ; nor that Eaffaello, with the sudden,
passionate impulse of his race and of his disposition,
was every moment falling more
deeply in love with the gracious and graceful
maiden, who in her childhood had been to
him as a dear little sister.

The walk was a long one, for Benedetta's
desire to learn all about old friends and old
haunts was not easily satisfied ; and the mere
mention of the name of a street, a Porta, or a
person, was sufficient to make both pause and
eagerly recall particular walks, favourite
views, half-forgotten conversations, or half-obliterated
incidents. Nevertheless it was far
too short for KaiFaello, who would have been

only too happy to go on till nightfall discussing
the tender memories of the old days
with his newly-found companion. But twilight
waits for no man, still less do express
trains ; and the first having warned Benedetta
to return homewards, a remembrance of the
second forced itself upon the mind of the captivated
Vino.

"How long? are you cjoino^ to remain in
Town V " asked Mrs. Wilding, as the young
man began making his grateful adieux.

Two or three months, it is possible, signora,"
he replied. " It is my work wall fix
the time of my departure."

Ah, then we shall hope to see you again
in London," said his hostess.

You must be sure to come and call on us'*
added Eva cordially. " You had better tellus
your address now."

The young sculptor returned to Town, his
mind full of pleasurable emotions. They
were both charming ; the fair, stout, middle-aged
lady, whose brow was still so unwrinkled
and her complexion so bright — a brow and
complexion such as few women in his own

country would have preserved after thirty —
and the lovely, sprightly, golden-haired Signorina,
whose expression was so spirituelle,
and whose features were so full of a mingled
'malice ' and kindliness.

The pair were indeed pleasing specimens,
he told himself, of the high-bred Englishwoman,
of whom he had before his coming
entertained so unfounded a dread. While, as
for his old playfellow

Ah, Benedetta mia," he said softly to himself,
" you are the fairest flower from mine
own country that was ever grafted upon a
foreign stalk ; a man might live and die for
you without reward. Who could help loving

you?"

His agreeable reflections continued uninterrupted
until the stoppage of the train at
the London terminus, where he got out, and,
still half-dreaming, made his way through the
crowds blocking up the station. He was by
disposition at all times gentle and courteous ;
but these qualities were perhaps more
apparent even than usual to-night— for which
of us is not unconsciously more tolerant with

the world at large when we are ourselves in a
happy frame of mind ? And many a busy
man or anxious woman, who at length, in answer
to the softly-worded request, gave way
to let him pass, felt the half scowl on their
features relax into something like a smile, as
they glanced up and caught a sight of the
beautiful young face. For if the classic outlines
of KafFaello Bartolucci's features had been
a thing to attract the attention of passers-b}^
in his own city of Eome, where beautiful
forms are so abundant and grace of movement
is so common, they were not likely to escape
observation among the far less highly-favoured
countenances of our modern Babylon.

D Etna's promised visit to Steynton was
fated to be deferred. Shortly before
the time when she was to have left the Manor
there arrived for her a letter from Miss Sparke,
written in a style of lugubrious resignation to
the will of Providence, and informing her that
she was requested by Lady Dumbarton to say
that it had pleased Heaven to afflict her with
a serious attack of rheumatic gout, which
confined her to her bed, and which made it
impossible for her, for the present, to receive
visitors. She trusted, however, as she was
already beginning to recover, to be able to
see her niece in the course of another week or
two, when she would again communicate with
her.

It grieves me," said Miss Sparke, " to bethe

inditer of these painful tidings, knowing
how justly dear to all at the Manor is your
beloved and revered aunt ; and my only consolation
is the being able to temper your
anxiety by imparting our well-founded hope
that the worst is now over."

This epistle excited wrath in Mrs. Wilding's
bosom.

Fiddlestick ! " she exclaimed, when alone
with her daughter. " What a toady the
woman is, and what gammon she loves to
write. She knows as well as possible that
Maria hates me, and that I hate Maria ! She
tells lies simply from an innate love of
humbug ! "

Mama," said Eva, with a doubtful increase
of charity, " you forget, some people are like
cats, they must have everything soft and pleasant
to the touch around them, even at the
expense of truth. And, after all, it mayn't be
quite such humbug written to Detta. I have
a suspicion that Detta respects Aunt Dumbarton
quite as much as she does either you
or I."

After the receipt of this letter Mrs. Wilding

endeavoured to convince her niece of the
desirability of her accompanying them to
town.

By the time your aunt has got over all
her aches and pains, real and fancied," she
remarked, " it will be about time for us to
start, and it would really spoil my pleasure to
send you up to vegetate in that bleak Yorkshire
desert just when Eva and myself will be
beginning our fun. No, no," continued the
really good-natured woman, who had by now
completely recovered from her temporary
suspicions and her temporary loss of amiability
towards her young relative, " you shall
make acquaintance with our London friends
and go everywhere with Eva. You shall have
your chance as well as others. And," she
added pleasantly, " I don't know that I shall
be told that my two girls are the plainest and
least agreeable out this season."

In making these remarks, Mrs. Wilding had
felt herself — perhaps not unnaturally — to be a
magnanimous person. She did not suspect
how one at least of her expressions, common
enough, no doubt, in the fashionable world,
VOL. I. 13

but unpleasantly suggestive to the mind of
one young and simple-hearted — lead grated
upon the girl's ears. Dettahad flushed deeply
with mingled pride and disgust at her aunt's
suggestion that she was to be allowed to
have her chance," but the flush, which Mrs.
Wilding assumed to be one of pleasure, only
served to confirm that lady in her good-natured
resolve.

Poor Edward,' she thought, ' no onB shall
say that I do not do my duty by his child. I
will treat her like my own. This going up to
town is, of course, an expense, and it is pleasant
to chaperone one girl than two, but she
shall go, and in every respect shall share Eva's
advantages.'

And Mrs. Wilding was so determined
upon the point, that Detta, who was at first
averse to the proposition, had to give way ;
but she took the occasion of laying before her
aunt, somewhat abruptly, certain ideas which
of late had shaped themselves in her mind.

Aunt Fanny," she said, " I can't go on
living upon you always. I will go up to
London with you, and then I will visit Aunt

Dumbarton. But, after that, I must do .
I must either work for my living here
ill England "

Good gracious ! " exclaimed Mrs. Wilding,
jumping up, indignation expressed in her face
and tone, " that you shall never do ! What
do you mean by proposing such a thing ? "

Or," continued Detta, " I can return and
keep house for the Maestro. That I think
would be the best plan. I have almost
enough to keep myself there," she added in
an undertone, " and Oh ! how I should love to
brighten his life ! "

Now I call that very ungrateful of jow,
Detta," said her aunt. " Have I not," she continued,
with a slight twinge of conscience,
always told you how welcome you are here,
and treated you almost like a daughter ? "

Dear aunt," said Detta, putting her arm
around the elder lady's neck, and generously
ignoring the brief glacial period that had
supervened upon Eveleen's rejection of Sir
Peter, " you have always been kindness itself
to me. And, as for Eva, I don't know how I
should do without her."

13*

She would miss you horribly," remarked
Mrs. Wilding. '' She is devoted to you.
Indeed, it sometimes seems to me that she
thinks quite as much of your opinion as of
mine. 1 am sure she did in the matter of Sir
Peter Galloway. And," she added with a
friendly little smile, " I don't mind telling you
now, Detta dear, that I was a little, just a very
little, annoyed with you for the prominent
part you took just then. It is all over now,
however, and I am sure that you are too good
and kind a girl ever again to thwart my wishes
intentionally."

I am sorry I vexed you," said her niece
simply. " I could not help speaking. He
would have made her miserable."

Well, the end of it all will be that she will
marry nobody," said Mrs. Wilding. " She
snubs every man who comes near her, and it
is not to be expected that they will put up
with it."

I know of no one half good enough for
her," observed Detta.

I know of somebody," returned her aunt,
*' good enough to satisfy any girl ; and,

between ourselves, Detta, I don't mind telling
you that the match would give me great
pleasure. I know you are a discreet little
girl," she added, fixing her eyes upon Detta's
countenance ; " it is her cousin, Beresford
Conway."

Whatever mays have been her suspicions,
they were dissolved by Benedetta's rejoinder.

He isn't half good enough," asserted the
girl. " Besides," she added, " there would
be two objections to that. I am sure she
doesn't care for him, and I don't think he is
in love with her."

As regards her not caring for him in that
way, that's true enough, perhaps," returned
her aunt sharply, " since, as I said before,
Eva makes a point of not caring for anybody,
and will probably go on doing so, if you
encourage her. As regards Beresford, he is
not a man to put himself forward for a rebuff;
but all the county knows that he has been
hanging about Eva for the last three years,
waiting for a word of encouragement from
her." Benedetta made no reply to this, and
the conversation closed somewhat abruptly

This lead all passed, however, a week or two
before their coming up to town.

Mrs. Wilding's visit to London was comparatively
a short one, and she and her party
were not of those who enter into the vortex of
that melancholy Carnival, the London season.
Her means were too limited to permit of
her hiring a house for the full period, so
she had established herself in a comfortable
hotel situated in the vicinity of Hanover
Square ; and, although she had a good many
friends and acquaintances, they were by no
means all members of the gayest and most
fashionable set. Hence it came to pass that,
although invitations were fairly numerous,
and that her young charges went out a good
deal, yet that they were not overburdened by
that conglomerate mass of so-called pleasure
which yearly enfeebles the constitutions and
ruins the nerves of so many healthy, happy
young English maidens. When they went
out they were not too tired to enjoy themselves
thoroughly, whether at morning ride, or
evenings dance, concert or theatre ; and it was
perhaps to this fact, which left their minds

unsated and their spirits still fresh and bright,
as much as to that of the good looks of both,
that the two girls owed their undeniable
popularity.

Both Eveleen and Benedetta were greatly
admired. In their small way each was
considered a beauty, and it is doubtful
whether Eveleen, with her little piquante
person and fair features, or Benedetta with.
her Italian grace, and the sweet seriousness of
extreme youth upon her creamy-tinted oval
face, were the most sought after. Mrs.
Wilding was in high good-humour : and, apart
from any ulterior motive, was conscious of 2r
genuine satisfaction in the social success of her
two young people.

Mr. Conway was again in town ; and, as a
rule, found time to spend a portion of everyday
at his cousin's rooms. He had taken
upon himself an air of ancient proprietorship
and cousinly chaperonage that greatly amused
both Eveleen and her mother. He would
escort the two girls for their ride in the Topmost
mornings, and was generally to be found
in the sofa corner at afternoon tea-time. He

seemed, however, Delta thought — perhaps
through the enervating effects of the London
season, which probably pressed upon him
more heavily than it did upon them — to have
become more taciturn, more didactic, and
more haw-haw than before.

That's his Town manner," remarked Eva
promptly, when one day Benedetta ventured
to intimate to her cousin her opinion on this
subject; "it's infectious: every man does it
here, more or less."

They do," said Detta. " I can't bear it ;
they are just like so many half-dead fish. Their
very fingers are so limp they don't know how to
shake hands ; and their eyes are always half-shut
and their mouths half-open, like the cod
on the fishmongers' stalls. And when they do
speak, which isn't often, a sentence seems to
exhaust them utterly Why do they go out
if they don't like it ? I love dancing, Eva ; it
seems part of me; but sometimes I think I
won't go to any more balls here in London,
but will wait till I can get a partner again
who really cares for a waltz, and doesn't do it
out of duty."

You had better not," laughed Eva ;
there would be no end of a row if you were
to promulgate such an idea before Mama."

Notwithstanding its many enjoyments, the
routine of town life did not approve itself to
Benedetta's mind on all points. She had an
ardent appetite for real pleasure, but a deep
scorn of those conventional pleasures which
to her were no pleasures at all. No one could
dance more lightly, laugh more heartily, or
canter through the fresh spring air more gleefully
than she; but the mere occupation of
seeing and being seen was to her at all times
a wearisome and obnoxious one. %

Eveleen, dear," she said one evening about
a fortnight after their arrival, " must we really
ride in that dreadful Eow any more ? It is so
kind of Aunt Fanny to let me have the horse ;
but it is really too dull. Couldn't we go out
into the country somewhere ? "

Eveleen pulled a face. She was by no
means superior to the exigencies of fashion,
and the habits of those about her.

Good gracious — the country ! " she exclaimed
aghast ; " who on earth ever dreams

of going into the country ? Why, we should
see nobody we know."

That's the thing," said Detta ; " I am so
tired of seeing the same faces again and again,
and hearing the same hmguid remarks. It
would be so delicious to feel real grass under
one's feet, and to be able to take a real gallop
without fearing collision."

Lath and plaster houses — cheap villa
residences, — and dusty rag-and-bottle-covered
commons most likely, instead of the ' real
grass ' ! " retorted Eva ironically. " Is she
not a strange girl, Beresford ? "

Miss Campbell," remarked Mr. Conway in
his slowest and most deliberate tone, " has the
misfortune to be original in her ideas. That
is an error which should be stamped out in
earliest youth. No woman should think for
herself."

It is a pernicious habit often acquired, I
observe, by living in the country," said Eva
laughing. " People have so little to do there,
that, if they happen to have any minds at all,
they are almost forced, for want of a better
occupation, to employ them. But do I really

understand you, Beresford, that you too have
a romantic hankering after the rag-and-bottle
common ? "

We might, if we — a —-exerted ourselves,
perhaps get beyond the rag-and-bottle
common," was his reply. " I am worse than
Miss Campbell. I am not only sick of my
kind, but of myself also."

Poor Beresford ! " said his cousin ; " your
liver must be out order. We must get you a
tonic."

And a country ride will give us all that,"
remarked Detta.

Thus outnumbered, Eveleen had to give in
The country ride next morning was undertaken
and enjoyed ; nor was it the last of the
kind, as Benedetta adhered to her resolution
to patronise no more the Lady's Mile.

Among the enjoyments offered by their
London visit, none perhaps pleased the half-foreign
girl better than a few quiet mornings
spent amid old masters at the picture galleries.
Eaflaelino Bartolucci usually found
time to be one of the party on these occasions,
and would then, naturally enough, fall into

his place beside Benedetta, whilst Mr. Conway
dropped behind with his cousin. Ino's love
of art and appreciative knowledge of painting
made him at such times a useful and agreeable
companion ; and Detta was well pleased to
learn from his eager lips, and to improve her
own judgment by his more experienced
criticism — unsuspecting that the eloquence of
the young man's speech was less due to
enthusiasm felt for his subject than to the
sudden rush of feeling inspired by her own
unconscious, upturned face, with its dark
questioning eyes, and full, sweet mouth. Often
too, in the evenings, when it was as yet too
early to prepare for the night's festivity, or
when, perhaps, he had been invited to share a
quiet dinner and afterwards to accompany the
three ladies to some musical or theatrical
entertainment, the young Italian, made quite
at home in Mrs. Wilding's snug little drawing
room, would pass an hour or two of dreamlike
happiness, his eyes fixed upon Detta as
she moved about the room, or, perhaps, by
general request, sat down before the piano to
sing away the gloaming. The girl's voice

was a rare one — tender, deep, and powerful.
She had, in respect of this gift, more than
fulfilled the promise of her childhood ; and
Ino, though in love, held no exaggerated
opinion in believing it one amongst a thousand
in its power to move the emotions of an
audience. In singing, Benedetta, like every
true artist, forgot herself ; and the half latent
intensity that lay beneath her outwardly quiet
demeanour, seemed then to break loose, and
give free vent to its expression. She was
herself always moved when she sang, she
knew not why — the force within her seemed
greater than herself ; and although, as a rule, <
of a reticent disposition, yet an emotion she
had never defined then often left her eyes
moist and her heart beating fast.

Day by day the young sculptor became
more deeply, more helplessly enamoured of
his old playfellow ; and day by day he found
it possible to spare more time from his work
in order to pass the hours by Benedetta's
side.

For a time, however, not a word of love
escaped his lips, although the girl herself

was perhaps the only one of the party to
whom the fact was not apparent.

Eveleen stood by, curious, but silent. She
hated interference in such matters, and spoke
never a word, nor made even the smallest
reference to the subject to her cousin. But
she was not a little interested to observe the
course of events. Mrs. Wilding, on her part,
seemed rather pleased than otherwise with
affairs in general. From some unexplained
reason the subject was avoided between herself
and her daughter ; but her cordiality to
the young Italian was unabated, and she
indeed even appeared to encourage his
constant attendance upon her niece. ' He
seems a good steady young man — he is a
rising genius — he will very likely be a great
man some day They have loved each other
from childhood. Benedetta is by nature more
than half Italian ; and, with her romantic disposition,
would after all be much happier
living in Eome near her old Maestro than
settled down as a matter-of-fact Englishwoman
in a prosaic country house.' In some
such way as this ran Mrs. Wilding's private

reflections. Matters were at this stage when
one evening, towards five o'clock, Beresford
Conway entered the room where Eva was
sitting by herself, turning over the pages of a
magazine, and flung himself into an arm-chair
beside her.

All alone ? " he asked. " Where is cousin
Fanny ? "

Mama is gone to lie down. She is utterly
exhausted with the round of pictures we went
this mornings. We brought the Signor back
to luncheon with us. And now," she continued,
replying to this thoughts, " he and
Detta are gone for a walk."

"A walk?"

Yes. To the Embankment. Detta has
never seen it except from a carriage, and
happened to express a wish at lunch to go
some day ; so of course Signor Bartolucci was
on fire to take her there at once."

•' Ah ! most romantic place for a walk,"
said Mr. Conway " Cousin Fanny is considered
a good chaperone, is she not ? " he
added carelessly.

You are severe on poor mama," laughed

Eveleen. " You forget they have known each
other from childhood, Beresford."

"An all-sufficing excuse," he remarked.
And when are we to congratulate these
sentimental young people ? "

"If you ask me," said his cousin slowly,
never."

Never ? My dear child, are you blind to
the love-throes expressed daily upon the
transparent countenance of your guileless
sculptor ? "

My dear Beresford, I am not blind to the
fact that no responsive throes are visible on
the countenance of Benedetta. I have taken
some time to satisfy myself on this point, and
I feel pretty clear now. And I think you
must allow that I am a better judge than a
great awkward man. She has only a sisterly
affection for him."

Pleasing, but perplexing for the brother
such affections," remarked Mr. Conway
drily.

But Eveleen, who knew every line of the
impassive face by heart, felt instinctively that
her reply had tended to relax its severity.

Yet Mr. Conway's next observation was not
flattering to the absent. " So then," he said,
Miss Campbell is not superior to the usual
weakness of her sex in a love of conquest ? "

Beresford, you are unfair, and you know
it. You know that Benedetta is true, and
kind and womanly — that such a thing never
enters her head. But she is very young, and
very warm-hearted. I don't suppose she
has ever found out that he loves her in
that way."

"Ah! " said Mr. Conway, and a pause of a
few moments ensued, while he drew towards
him a dish of exquisite hothouse flowers, and ■
thoughtfully examined them one by one.

Who sent you these ? " he inquired at
length.

Mr. Westmacott, of course. I really wish
he would not ; he quite keeps us in flowers."

He is very devoted, Mr. Westmacott ? "

"Very," said Eva with a short laugh.

When are you going to become Mrs.
Westmacott ? "

When the stars fall to the earth, and when
you learn to talk sense."

VOL. I. 14

How many times lias he asked you ? "

Whether he has asked me at all is a
matter that concerns nobody but myself and
him."

It is a pity all girls are not as reticent
upon such subjects. Poor Westmacott! Ita
hard life for people in love. He wants to
have you who won't have him ; our idyllic
sculptor wants your cousin, and she, you say,
won't have him — everybody cries for the
moon. What a foolish world it is I "

And you ? " asked Eva suddenly. Hardened
though he thought himself, a faint tinofe
of colour rose under the fair skin, beneath the
penetrating gaze of her eyes.

I ? Oh, / am a misogynist ; I shall
probably never marry."

Oh yes, you will," she exclaimed ; " if ever
you meet with a beautiful, loving, sincere,
lofty-minded woman. I know your standard
is high, Beresford."

Beautiful, loving, sincere, lofty-minded —
that is a good deal to expect," said Mr.
Conway. " Are there any such women to
be had ? "

I know of one," said Eva boldly, turning
aside her head as she spoke, frightened by her
own words."

A man," said Mr. Conway, pulling his
moustache thoughtfully, " must think himself
not far short of perfection, to aspire to such a
woman as you describe."

Eveleen was silent. She knew her cousin
better perhaps than anyone else knew him.
Justly or not, she gave him credit for qualities,
feelings and opinions, which rarely troubled
the outer surface of the man ; and to this fact
perhaps, was owed the tacit sympathy and
friendship which had for so many years
existed between them. Few would now
have recognised Mr. Conway's society-tone,
as, drawing his chair nearer to the fire which
blazed upon the hearth, he continued the conversation.


You are the last person to give matrimonial
advice, Eva," he remarked. " In
practice you deny your theory."

"Ah!" she said, "sam different." And
something like a sio^h came from her as she
rose and leant upon the mantelpiece opposite

14*

her cousin. For lie had known her story —
she had no concealments from him.
He took up the poker and played with the
fire for a minute or two. " Haven't you forgotten
that yet ? " he asked after a pause.

"I can't, Beresford," she replied, half sadly,
half impatiently. " I have tried, but it's of
no use. The thought of it will come back
upon me at times. I don't know that I care
much — about him — now ; but it seems to have
taken the heart out of me for anyone else."

Beresford Conway looked at her for a moment
kindly ; then he resumed his occupation,
gently stirring the fire. "It is a pity," he
said. " Though," he added, as if to himself,
a better fellow never breathed than Arthur
Drew, nor one more worthy to be remembered
bv a woman."

INO SPEAKS.

Delta meanwhile and her companion were
sauntering slowly along that new promenade
which is justly the pride of London,
and one of the grandest of its later improvements.
They had now passed out of the
vicinity of the noisier thoroughfares and had
entered upon a quieter part where the thunder
of the vehicles was but distantly heard, and
where the Thames swirled solemnly by,
calmly anxious to escape to distant meadows
and the far-off sea. They had walked fast, for
both were young and strong, and by no means
fatigued by the sight-seeing which had so exhausted
Mrs. Wilding ; and their talk had
been upon art, in eager discussion over the
merits and demerits of the paintings visited
that morning. But now they slackened their

pace a little, and presently paused to gaze at
the turbid bosom of the great river rolling
onward heavily and sullenly between its prison
walls.

EafFaelino leant his arms upon the stone
parapet.

I begin to like this great, grey London,"
he said dreamily. " At first it was to me a
city horrible and hateful, with its fogs and
its tall chimneys, and its gloomy sky, and the
unpoetic, unpicturesque squalor of its poor.
There is no colour in London, no blue in the
sky, no frescoes on the houses, no crimson
sash to relieve the rags of the peasantry, as in
our own land ; and there is no song. London
has no voice ; there is nothing but the j^ell of
an omnibus driver or the shout of a drunken
vagabond to relieve the monotony of the ceaseless
roll of wheels. There is no poetry in the
nights — no touching of a stringed instrument —
no distant sound of the full notes of some
wandering singer — no drip, drip, from the
plashing fountains to break through the stillness
of the cool, white moonlight. Yet I am
beginning to see that there is beauty even in

London. The barges that sail up the river —
the river itself, as the sun sets behind its many-master
vessels in streaks of crimson — the
stately Houses of Parliament standing out
severely in the moonshine — and the misty
greyness of the aisles in Westminster Abbess
And it has great hearts and great deeds in it
too, this gloomy London. I am glad I came
to it, were it only for that."

Lio," said Detta, " tell me, how is sour
work getting on ? " The question seemed to
startle him, and he reade no reply.

Is it much advanced since we saw it last?"
she asked. For — herself demanding an invitation
which the young man had been far
too humble to proffer — Mrs. Wilding, on her
first arrival in town, had, in company with
her niece and daughter, paid a visit to
EalTaelino's studio. " I thought it beautiful
then," she said kindly, noticing his embarrassment.


What little beauty it ever possessed is
gone from it now, I fear," he said, speaking
with constraint.

Why, Ino ? Bat Oh, that cannot be true I "

My hand has lost its cunning," he said
sadly. " It seems so to me, at least."

It cannot, must not be ! " she exclaimed
warmly. " What have you been doing to
yourself, Ino, that you should feel that ? "

Ah ! " he said, turning his face away from
her, " / have done nothing. That which is
within me, is stronger than I, that is all."

You are in trouble," she said very softly.
'• What is it, Ino mio ; can I not help you ? '*

All the blood in the young man's veins
seemed to leap up within him at the sound of
that caressing word ; and his passion could
no longer be repressed. He suddenly turned
towards her his glowing face.

I have tried to be silent," he exclaimed,
speaking rapidly, and with an utterance that
was almost fierce. " Day by day I have
watched you, and I have said to myself :
What right have you to speak to her of
love ? You have as yet no money, no position
— and she does not know, she does not
guess — she only thinks of you as her old
playfellow. You are only the child of her
mother's servant ; and she— she is born of the

English aristocracy You are mad, Eaffaello
Bartolucci ! ' But the madness has grown — it
has seized me, body and soul, and I am no
longer master of myself ! "

He ceased as abruptly as he had Pegu,
and turned away, concealing his face with his
hand, as he still leant upon the parapet,
There was a long pause, while Benedetta
slowly collected herself.

Astonishment, fear, and distress had succeeded
each other rapidly upon the mobile
features as she listened to his passionate
declaration. She was utterly taken aback ;
no suspicion of the truth had, perhaps
strangely, as yet entered her mind ; and,
blended with her intense compassion, came
self - reproaching but half - deserved. At.
length, however, she put her hand out and
timidly touched his sleeve.

Ino," she said, almost in a whisper, " I
never knew it. I am grieved — 0, am I not
grieved for you ? "

He dropped his hand, and once more
turned towards her, his lips trembling.

There is no hope ? " he asked, searching

her face hungrily. '• Ah ! I knew it was a
madness. You need not pity me. But,
Benedetta mia, I shall love no other to the
day of my death."

You will forgive me in time," she said,
softly, her own eyes filling as she saw the
Marched look on the olive face ; " and forget
me too, some day, I pray God, dear Vino."

How was it that she made no pause, that
in her heart she felt no doubt as to the
answer she must at once give him ? Had
she not always been fond of him ? Had he
not a beautiful face, a noble character, and
a touch of that genius which raises the
individual man upon a pedestal above his
fellows? Why was it impossible that she
should care for him at some future day, and
why did she know instinctively, and wish him
to understand, that the feelings of sisterly
affection she now entertained for him were
unalterable? Surely she was above any
vulgar consideration of the lower origin
from which he had sprung ; nor, surely, had
she as yet become so Anglicised as to feel his
little foreign ways and Italian mode of

thought as obstacles to sympathy? Certainly,
as regarded the former point, no one
could say that the young sculptor was not
refined in appearance, and polished in
behaviour ; while as for the other, did not
her heart often yearn for the old surroundings
— for the old bright, warm Italian life —
the sight of the laughing, brown faces, and
the sound of the rich, harmonious syllables
of her childhood's tongue ? Nevertheless,
instinct told her what course to pursue ;
and wisely, woman-like, she followed her
instinct unquestioning.

A minute later, and he had raised his head,*
his face still pale, but a wan smile upon his
lips.

The dream is dreamt and over," he said,
with a calmness that astonished her after his
late vehemence. " Come, let us be going
home."

Tell me first," she said, hesitatingly, " that
you can forgive me — that you are not angry
with me ? " , .

A man is not angry with the flowers of
spring," he said, using one of the similes

common to him, " because he himself has
passed into a barren land."

If it had but been anyone but you, Ino —
you, who have been such a kind, good
brother to me — I would sooner have grieved
almost anyone else in the world."

Her eyes where full of tears. It appeared
to her so cruel a dispensation, that her hand
should be the one to deal a blow to the
playmate for whom she had always felt so
strong, so loyal an affection.

It almost seemed as if he were comforting
her, when next he spoke.

You could not help yourself," he said,
gently. " Love is not a thing to come by
call. He is a winged angel that lights upon
the hearts of some, and passes others by.
Do not blame yourself. It was my own
foolish presumption to think for a moment
of you."

There was no presumption," she exclaimed.
" Do you remember, Ino, how asa
child you used to carry me across the
rough stones of the Via Appian, or came to
my rescue that day when the masquers

frightened me ? How I used to look up to
you — how strong and superior I thought

you!"

We were all children then," he said, his
face, however, softening with the reminiscences
her words recalled, " and you were
then the Piccola. Everything," he added
in an undertone, " must change as years goon."


I am not changed ? " she asked, almost
humbly.

In heart you will never change. You
will always be the same — true and tender — "
He paused, but presently added : " And may
the man to whom you give yourself some
future day be more worthy of you, Benedetta,
than I."

I have no thought of that," she said,
quickly.

She felt instinctively that the assurance
would be a consolation to him ; as indeed it
was, although he made no reply in words.

And so they turned to go homewards,
walking silently side by side ; each feeling
sadly that the complexion of things around

them had, in these few moments, changed;
that both sky and river had turned greyer,
and that the hurry and bustle on all. sides
about them, now seemed far more jarring and
discordant than before.

MR. CONWAY REFORMS.

FOE the next few days life went on in much
the same round of occupations. There
was the usual ride in the morning, the usual
drive in the Park or shopping expedition in
the afternoon, and the usual public or private
entertainment in the evening, Beresford
Conway, as a rule, accompanied his cousins
when they went out. He spent indeed the
greater part of his time lounging in Mrs.
Wilding's little drawing-room, or attending
upon her or her charges at places of public
resort. Eaffaelino Bartolucci, too, was there
almost as much as before. He did not desert
the house in consequence of what had passed
between himself and Detta ; but, after the
omission of one day, returned to his former
habit of coming in about dusk and making

one of the family party. No change was
apparent on the part of either since that
episode, unless it were for a little more silence
on his side, and a little increase of gentleness
on hers. And certainly no one entertained
any suspicion of what had occurred unless it
were Eveleen, who, as usual on these occasions,
kept her own counsel.

After the lapse of a few days, however, an
unusual event came to break the routine of
what the two girls called their society life.
This was a visit paid by them both, under Mr.
Conway's chaperonage and at his personal request,
to the east end of London. He was a
little embarrassed as he made the proposal,
and Mrs. Wilding a good deal surprised. He
wanted Eveleen's advice, he said, upon some
little reforms that were beinor carried out for
the benefit of his tenants, a statement which
provoked from the elder lady the ingenuous
remark that she had not given him credit
before for any particular interest in the benefit
of his tenants. Neither did she consider
Eva's advice upon such matters of any distinct
value. She did not withhold her consent,

however, only warning her girls to avoid, as
far as possible — for fear of infectious diseases
and the contamination of dirt — coming into
personal contact with th'.^ people by whom
they would be surrounded ; and the trio set off
in a hired brougham, Eva curiously amused
as to the meanings of this strange new whim,
as she deemed it, of her cousin Beresford's ;
Mr. Conway himself considerably embarrassed
by his novel role of benefactor, and Detta
instinctively recalling the conversation that
had passed between herself and him some
two or three months before. It was a long
drive, and one which led them out of the
fashionable thoroughfares they knew so well
into others almost equally wide and important,
but different indeed in the nature of their
population and in the style of their traffic.
Out of these again into narrower streets, filled
up more or less by hawkers' stalls and costermongers'
carts — where the shops all seemed
boot-shops, or pawnbrokers' shops, or shops
for the sale of old clothes — where half-naked
children sat with their feet in the gutters,
idle men slouched in knots against the corners
VOL I. 15

and women with bedraggled hair and slippers
down at heel limped down the pavements.
Detta had grown very silent the last few
minutes, and her eyes were sad and serious as
she gazed out of the brougham window, while
even Eveleen felt her usual gaiety restrained
by the forlorn scenes of poverty on every
side.

I don't like sour property, Beresford,"
she said at last. "It gives one the creeps to
come here. If I were you I should sell it, and
invest my money in something less oppressive."


I might have done so, perhaps," he replied,
had I ever visited it ; but I ready don't know
that I ever came here until — a~few weeks
ago."

They had now entered a somewhat wider
street, and the driver suddenly pulled up and
came to the door.

This is it, I think, sir ? " he said, touching
his hat.

Yes, this is it," said Mr. Conway, proceeding
to help his two companions out of the
carriage, and rapping sharply at the door in

front of them. In another moment it was
opened by a l)risk-looking, pleasant-faced
woman, who dropped a curtsey to Mr.
Conway.

These ladies have kindly come, Mrs.
Jones," he said, a little nervously, " to see the
house and suggest improvements. Will you
show us round ? "

This Mrs. Jones was only too happy to do,
for, extremely proud of the new Coffee Tavern
and of her own position of manager was she.

Well, do you think it will do ? " he asked,
when at length they had made the tour of the
house, with its large well-stocked bar, the
nicely-furnished private coffee-room behind,
the comfortable reading-room with smaller
room containing a bagatelle-table leading out
of it ; and, at the other side of the passage, a.
huge apartment filled with benches and platform,
and not intended for any particular
purpose at present, but where, as Mr. Conway
remarked incidentally, " any lecturing fellow
approved of by the committee, might have a
turn now and then, or where anybody who
liked might hold an amateur concert." This

15*

was about the only remark he made during
their passage from room to room, leaving all
explanations to Mrs. Jones, who was fully
equal to the occasion, and dilated with the
eloquent warmth of an enthusiast upon the
purpose and advantage of each and every
portion of the new building.

"Will it do?" Mr. Conway had asked of
his companions. But, whilst speaking, he
fixed his eyes upon Benedetta's face, and it
was evident that from her he awaited the reply.
He would not, perhaps, have cared for
any one to know how much reward lay in the
unstinted smile of gratification she turned
towards him.

It is perfect," she said. " I do not think
it could be better, could it, Eva ? "

Cousin Beresford," said Eva, " you are
coming out in a new line. That is the distinguishing
characteristic of genius. Its
originality is always bursting out under new
forms. We shall soon see you chairman of
the Woman's Emancipation League, or walking
at the head of the Salvation Army ! "

Mr. Conway had forgotten to remove his

gaze from Benedetta's countenance, and when
at length he did so, he turned absently towards
his cousin, as if scarcely hearing her
words ; but after a moment he answered her.

This affair is no charity on my part, you
know," he said, with a languid air, " it is — a
or means to be — a self-paying concern."

Eveleen arched her eyebrows incredulously.

Penny cups of tea and coffee, and penny
subscriptions to the reading-room, pay for all
this outlay ? "

So they tell me — in time," he replied.

And you believe them ? "

My dear Eva, I make a point through life,
of believing everything I am told. If you
doubt, you are required to substantiate your
doubts, and that is so much trouble."

Well," said Eveleen, " in any case I wish
it success."

"There is no library as yet, but that is
coming, I believe, is it not, Mrs. Jones ? " Mr.
Conway remarked, referring to his landlady
with the air of a man who has not much
personally to do with the matter.

Oh, yes, sir. Indeed, sir, the books as you

ordered came in last evening, and the carpenter
he'll be here in the course of the afternoon
to commence putting up the book-shelves.
And please, sir, while you're here, I may as
well tell you about that Mr. Newton, sir. He
met my 'husband last night close upon the
door-step, and spoke a deal of impudence to
him and against you, sir. ' You give Mr.
Conway my best respects, Mr. Jones,' says he,
and just you tell him as I've got a deal a
better 'ouse just round the corner of the next
street ' (which ain't your property, you see,
sir), ' and,' says he, ' I finds the situation a
deal more 'andy, and 'ope as he won't find mein
the way of his grand new lolly pop-shop.'
And a deal more of such-like inference, sir,
as I needn't repeat to you."

Who is Mr. Newton ? " asked Eveleen, as,
after bidding farewell to brisk Mrs. Jones, the
party made their way out through the door of
the newly-finished Coffee Tavern. " He seems
to be a rival of yours, Beresford."

He was," said Mr. Conway. " He kept a
gin-palace nearly opposite this house, and I
got rid of him. He ought to be grateful tome.

I gave him a bonus to buy off the remaining
year of his lease. But he isn't.
There is no such thing as gratitude in this
world. He — a — pocketed my bonus, and has
transferred himself and his palace a few yards
round the corner."

Have you anything more to show us ? "
enquired his cousin, as they stood once more
in the street.

Only a pump," he returned deliberately.
Only a pump ! " she echoed laughing.
Are you cracked, Beresford ? "

Mr. Conway turned towards Benedetta.
Pumps IV ere one of the things, were they
not ? " he asked. " But I suppose you might
call it a fountain."

It is a very neat fountain," said Eva, as
they turned a corner and entered a wider
street, which was indeed more like a little
square, with apparently no thoroughfare leading
through it.

Dogs and horses and cattle all provided
for," she continued; "really a very neat design.
And what capital troughs ! "

"- My agent says he can't see his way to the

model lodging houses just yet, Miss Campbell,"
remarked Mr. Conway. " He is a slow mana
Scotchman — and ideas take time to filter
through his brain. But we must see what
constant irritation upon the subject will
do."

It will all come in time now that you have
begun," she replied softly. " See, here is a
grateful little client for your fountain." And
she bent down to place the mug attached to
the fountain, and which she had filled from
one of the jets, within the grasp of a tiny boy,
whose stature seemed just too short to admit
of his reaching it for himself.

What is your name, little man ? " asked
Eveleen, so soon as, with Detta's assistance, he
had finished his draught.

Tom Watkins," answered the small child
promptly.

Do you live in this court ? "

No, down there."

And the grimy little hand was pointed in
the direction of a labyrinth of small streets
nearly opposite.

What's your father ? " she continued.

Ain't got no father ; he's gone."

Dead, do you mean ? "

No, gone — thinned away. He said as the
beaks was after him."

And what does your mother do, since father
ruined away ? "

She sews."

Sews what ? "

'• Anything as the shop will give her''

And you — do you go to school. Tommy ? "

No," replied the small bundle of rags. " I
don't go nowheres ; and what's more," he
added decisively, "I don't want to."

Eveleen and her companions could not help *
laughing.

Wouldn't you like to learn to read ?" demanded
the former.

"No, I don't know as I would. Laming
ain't no particular use, as I knows on."

What could you like ? " inquired Mr.
Conway, regarding the small boy with
interest.

I'd like a tizzy*' he replied without hesitation.


Here are two tizzies for you," said Mr.

Conwci}' dropping a shilling into his eager
hand.

"Now," he continued, "what are you
going to do with it ? Play pitch and toss, or
take it home to mother ? "

Take it home," replied the child, turning
away without a word of thanks,

Don't let the street boys see your wealth,
or perhaps they might role you on the way,"
remarked Eva.

The little boy looked back, and bestowed a
most unmistakeable wink upon the trio.

I ain't such a fool as that, quite," said he.

And opening his mouth, he chucked the
shilling into the side of his cheek. Then,
without waiting for further parley, he leapt
down the steps, and disappeared like an arrow
from the bow towards his home.

How old is that precocious specimen ? "
asked Eveleen.

Ten ? " said Mr. Conway.

Six ? " said Benedetta.

He had the stature of four, but the intelligence
of ten," said Eveleen. " I am inclined
to think you are nearest the truth, Detta."

Well," said Mr. Conway, " if you holies
have now sufficiently admired the pump, we
may a^ well return to the brougham, I suppose.
We must not be too long, or cousin
Fanny will be sure to imagine us the victims
of east-end ruffianism."

'' Beresford," said his cousin, before he had
finished, " here is a gentleman who wants to
speak to you."

Mr. Conway turned, and found himself
face to face with an elderly man in clerical
dress, and with a hard-featured but kindly
visage.

''I am the rector of this parish," he said,
taking off his hat, " and I want to introduce
myself to you. You are, if I mistake not, the
Mr. Conway who has a good deal of property
here. I wish to thank you for the interest
you seem to be taking in various ways for the
good of the poor people."

Something more nearly approaching a
blush appeared upon the countenance of
Beresford Conway than was often the case
with that apparently self-satisfied and nonchalant
gentleman.

You must thank this lady, not me," he
said, turning towards Detta. " May I introduce
you. Miss Campbell ? Also my cousin,
Miss Wilding."

My name is Mowbray," said the clergyman,
with a pleasant smile. " So you are the
benefactress ? "

'• No, indeed," replied Benedetta, blushing
crimson.

Miss Campbell suggested the reforms,"
remarked Mr. Conway. " And others," he
added half aside, with a smile of amusement.
They would never have been thought of
without her."

I thank you both heartily," said Mr.
Mowbray ; " the one for devising, the other
for carrying out the improvements. That
heading Room especially will be an immense
boon to many of my poor men. I took the
liberty yesterday, Mr. Conway, of asking to
see the house."

I am very sorry you were not invited
before," replied the other. "It was an oversight.
I had not the pleasure of sour
acquaintance."

But what 1 wish most of all to thank you
for," continued Mr. Mowbray, " is the removal
of that awful gin palace from our neighbourhood.
They tell me sou bought the man out,
and of course it will be a financial loss to
you."

Oh ! said Beresford hastily, "' that was
nothing. But I hear he has only gone into
the next street ; so I fear you won't be much
better off."

Oh indeed, he has removed to some little
distance, quite out of m}^ way ; and I have
besides serious hopes that we may get the
place suppressed. The man is as yet only intreaty
for the new house, and we, that is
the rector of that parish and myself, are
meanwhile working upon the magistrates to
try to get them to refuse the renewal of the
license."

Oh ! I hope you will succeed." said Bene-delta,
with an earnestness that came from her
heart. She had a keen appreciation for the
sorrows and sufferings of the poor, and she
had both seen and read enough even in her
short young life to realise some of the miseries

alteiulant upon the existence of these pest-houses.


Mr. Mowbray turned a long glance towards
the foreign-looking face, with its great, dark,
serious eyes, and the wistful expression which
spoke of so much silent sympathy.

I should like so much," he said, " if it
would not be delaying you too long, to ask
you to turn in for a moment and see my
Eagged School. It is close by here, and we
should find them at work now."

Mr. Conway glanced towards Benedetta with
a smile. " Another of your ideas carried out,
you see," he remarked.

Mr. Mowbray caught both smile and
remark. " Oh," he said, " that has been
going on for some years. It is one of our
best points. What we now chiefly want is
improved dwellings for our people. Some of
the houses are perfect pig-sties."

Model lodging houses come next on the
list, I believe," remarked Mr. Conway, with a
return of his half-quizzical manner.

The eyes of the clergyman brightened.
That would be beyond my wildest hopes,"

lie said, glancing eagerly towards his companion.


I see no reason against them." remarked
Mr. Conway. " But my agent, Mr. McClure,
does, or fancies he does. You have my full
consent to fight it out with him, Mr. Mowbray.
lie is so accustomed to managing me, that I
find it impossible now to manage him."

"I will tackle him tomorrow morning,"
replied the rector, an almost childlike glee
expressed in his tone and manner. " But
here we are at the school."

And he led them thrush a ' narrow doorway,
down a dingy stone passage, from the
end of which could be heard the sound of
many juvenile voices. Turning through
another doorway, they stood in a large stone-floored
room, decorated round the walls with
gay-coloured prints, and containing some fifty
or sixty children of all ages, but chiefly below
the age of ten years or so. " After that time,"
remarked Mr. Mowbray, " they usually have
settled occupations of their own, and it is
difficult to catch them to become regular
school attendants."

A little open space was left in the centre of
the room, on one side of which were the boys'
classes, and on the other the girls'. The
teachers were of both sexes, but chiefly young
girls, and appeared to be of all ranks. " Of
course," said Mr. Mowbray, " they are all
unpaid, and do their work for the love of God.
And judging from the riot going on," he
added, " you would scarcely guess the
influence many of them have over their
charges."

The noise was indeed deafening, and
Eveleen wondered how any teacher could
keep his or her head clear enough for the
duty required ; but it was, after a fashion,
legitimate noise, and it was evident that,
although the line was stretched to the uttermost,
yet that a certain discipline was upheld.
If the children screamed, they screamed over
their lessons. Each shouted louder than the
other, in order merely to outdo his mates ;
and nothing like rebellion or disrespect was
apparent. Altogether, for street Arabs, their
behaviour was respectable. The entrance of
Mr. Mowbray and his party was the signal fora

general uprising, and a shout of " Good
morning, sir," brought out at the top of
several score of voices. The rector spoke a
word or two to a few of the teachers, and
gazed down upon the small faces upturned to
his with unmistakeable love. " They are so
sharp and so affectionate," he said, turning
for sympathy to his companions. " Many of
them are orphans, poor little souls, or the
children of thieves ; and some are more than
half-starved. But they are always so happy
here ! "

Both Eveleen and Detta had a natural liking
for children, which even the dirt and squalor
of these little waifs could not destroy ; and
their sympathy delighted Mr. Mowbray, whose
ragged schools were evidently near his heart.
They listened with interest while one or two
classes were put forward to display their
prowess in the various branches of education ;
and even Mr. Conway, as he leant against the
doorway, an object of amazement and admiration
both to teachers and pupils, could not
help being amused by the responses of some
of these quick-witted, half-naked little street

VOL. I. K)

rovers. " Oli, my ! ain't lie a swell ? " he
overheard one boy remark to another, evidently
referring to himself ; " I guess Fie
ain't never buttoned 'is boots for 'itself all 'is
life!"

E's one of them lords as rides in the park
every day," returned his companion, "and
always 'as a 'ars-crown button-role in his
weskit."

I wouldst mind them studs myself, now,"
remarked a third ; " nor yet I wouldst refuse
that there gold watch-chain, if 'e was to ax
me perlite would I 'ave it."

Neither did the two young ladies escape
their share of attention. " They ain't bad
'uns to look at," remarked a small boy not
far from Beresford, the number of whose years
perhaps might have amounted to seven or
eight. " The little 'un with the taller 'air, is
the one for me," he added with the decided
glance of a connoisseur.

She ain't nothing to t'other 'un," said the
small boy who sat beside him. " She's a deal
finer finger of a woman The little 'un looks
sharp ; but lor I the dark 'un, she's that soft

YOU could turn lier round your thumb in no
time ! "

Silence ! " said Mr. Mowbray to the whole
school with energy. And then, very briefly
and impressively, he spoke a few religious
words, jutting his meaning into language
which the youngest child could not fail to
understand, and applying it practically to
their own lives with a vigour and reality that
startled his visitors, and seemed to impress
his little hearers. Certainly, perhaps none of
the three who accompanied him that morning
had ever before listened to a teaching at once
so simple, so hearty, and so straightforward
There was no doubt about Mr. Mowbray's
words coming from his heart. His eyes
glowed, and his countenance changed rapidly
as he went from theme to theme, fascinating
the most irreverent and hardened of the little
vagrants by his earnestness. His rugged
features were still flushed as he turned half
apologetically towards Eveleen. "I fear I
have kept you too long," he said ; " I always
forget everything when I am speaking to my
children. You must be going, must you not ? "

We have been very much interested," lie
replied warmly. " But we must be going
now."

They shook hands cordially. But in the
narrow stone passage, Mr. Conway dropped a
yard or two behind his companions. He was
fumbling with his purse, and now brought a
piece of paper out of it. " Will you accept
this ? " he asked. " I am afraid I haven't
been — a — the most exemplary of landlords."

"You are too kind," said Mr. Mowbray,
his transparent face expressing the delight he
felt. " What is it for ? The school ? "

Plum pudding for the little beggars — or
anything else you like," returned Mr. Conway;
I had better leave it to you." And he escaped
down the passage with an unseemly haste
most foreign to his usual deliberate mode of
progression.

LND OF VOLUME J.



F7S82-I

V.2

IN THE OLD PALAZZO,

SELECT HOVELS BY POPULAR AUTHORS,

Crown 8vo, cloth, js. 6d. each.

The following Volumes of the Series are note ready, and can he
obtained of all Booksellers in Town and Country, and at all
Railway Bookstalls: —

By florence MARRYAT.

MY SISTER THE ACTRESS. [ HER WORLD AGAINST A LIE.
A BROKEN Blossom. ( PEERESS AND PLAYER.

FACING THE FOOTLIGHTS. UNDER THE LILIES & ROSES.
MY OWN CHILD. I THE HEART OF JANE WARNER

By ANNIE THOMAS.

FRIENDS AND LOVERS. | JENIFER. | ALLERTON TOWERS.
By LADY CONSTANCE HOWARD.

SWEETHEART AND WIFE. I MOLLIE DARLING.

MATED WITH A CLOWN. j ONLY A VILLAGE MAIDEN.

By MRS. ALEXANDER ERASER.

A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY. | A FATAL PASSION.

By IZA Diffuse HARDY.

LOVE, HONOUR AND OBEY. | NOT EASILY JEALOUS.
ONLY A LOVE STORY.

By H. Loveth CAMERON. By DORA RUSSELL.

A NORTH COUNTRY MAID. OUT OF EDEN.

By JEAN Middlemost.
POISONED ARROWS.

By NELLIE Fortescue HARRISON.
FOR ONE MAN'S PLEASURE.

M Noufl.

BY

Gertrude FOEDE

Author of
"A Lady's Tour in Corsica," &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

London :

F. V. WHITE & CO., 31, Soul HAMPTON ST., STiiAND

18S5.

Ki>M,Y AND CO., GATK STKKKT, MKCOLK's INK Fields.

AND KINGSTON-ON-T11AJ1ES.

CONTENTS

CHAP. Image

I, — Mk. Conway Proposes 1

II. — CcrpiD ON THE Common . . . 18

III — The Major's Confidences . 45

IV. — Merits and Demerits . 64

V. — Miss Spake is Jealous . 75

VI. — Serious Losses . S7

VII. — Dr.TTA IN Disgrace . . . .110*

VIII. — Friendly Words . . . loO

IX. — In lloME once more . . . .155

X. — Betting's Love Affairs . . 177

XL — A Faithful Heart 205

XII.— Do I Love Him? 219

CHAPTER I.

MR. CONWAY PROPOSES.

THE term of Mrs. Wilding's stay in town
was now drawing to a close. The last
day had arrived ; and it had been settled that
when, the next morning, Eveleen and her
mother started homewards, Benedetta should
at the same time get into the northern express*
which would convey her to that town in
Yorkshire which was nearest to Lady Dumbarton's
residence. Perhaps none of the three
were particularly sorry that their London
visit had come to an end. Accustomed as
they were to the quiet routine of country life,
the amount of exertion, mental and physical,
demanded of them during the last eve weeks,
had proved somewhat too fatiguing to be
altogether agreeable.

Mrs. Wilding was perhaps the most
VOL. II. 17

exhausted of the trio ; added to which, she
had a private annoyance of her own, arising
out of an altercation which had taken place
that morning between her daughter and
herself.

Mama," Eva had said with considerable
energy, " did I overhear you last night inviting
Mr. Westmacott, dien he left town, to
pays us a visit ? "

My dear, he is coming into the country,
and will almost pass our very door. It would
be absolutely inhospitable not to invite
him."

Well, if you repeat your invitation, I
shall take care not to be at home, that is
all."

And where will you go, prays ? "

I don't care — anywhere. I will ask Aunt
Dumbarton to take me in. It is perfectly
horrid to think of inviting him when you
know he has proposed to me several times,
and I have refused him."

"I suppose you needn't always go on
refusing him ? I don't see why I should deny
him another chance if he wishes for it."

You kiiow that there is no chance, Mama,
and that I should only refuse hmi adam. It
would be vulgar and unprincipled to meet
lira in my own house ; and I won't do it."

Upon my word — vulgar and unprincipled !
That is pretty strong. I begin to think I
have spoilt you, Eva."

"Very likely you have. Mama. All the
same, I mean to do as I say."

"And pray," said Mrs. Wilding suddenly,
why shouldn't I ask him for my own
pleasure ? He is a very agreeable man.
How do you know that he mayn't fall in love
with me ? "

Eva glanced at her mother, and then burst
out laughing merrily.

Very true," she said, " though the idea
never entered my head before. But, now I
(some to think of it, you are only forty-seven,
and very nice-looking. Very possibly he
might take a fancy to you."

I shall do it one of these days if you goon
thwarting me much longer," said Mrs.
Wilding.

Eveleen's face became suddenly grave. A

17*

pause of several minutes ensued, broken again
by Mrs. Wilding, whose tone had not as yet
quite recovered its serenity.

"I am going out to do some shopping," she
remarked shortly. " Will you come with
me ? "

No, thank you, mama."

If I am not in for afternoon tea, keep
some for me.

Very well, mama."

"What makes you so sulky, Eva? "

"Am I sulky?"

Yes, of course you are, as sulky as a bear !
And it's my place to be angry, not yours, I
should say."

Just as you like, mama. I renounce you
the position with all nry heart."

Come, Eva, don't be a little fool. You
know I was only joking."

Oh, then, of course it's all right. But
your tone was not a particularly jocular
one."

"Well," said Mrs. Wilding, beginning to
regain her temper in proportion as her
daughter appeared lo lose hers, " I give you

my solemn promise that I won't put a stepfather
over your head for the next ten years."

Of course you didn't mean it," .said Eva,
whose equanimity was quickly restored ; " but
it doesn't do to joke on such serious matters,
mama."

'• You little idiot ! " said her mother ; " do
sou suppose I am not old enough to know
the advantages of freedom ? "

And peace being thus re-established, she
hurried away to put on her bonnet.

Mrs. Wilding had not left the house many
minutes when EafTaello Bartolucci wa
announced.

He had come to pays his farewell visit. The
period of his own stay in England was now
nearly at an end ; but he had still a week or
two longer to spend in town in order satisfactorily
to conclude the work for which he had
come over. He had one piece of news to give
to Benedetta — news affecting himself, which a
short time previously would probably have
afforded him the deepest satisfaction, but
which, in his present state of mind, appeared
a matter of little moment, almost of indifference

to him. He had received a commission
to carry out some work at Florence — such a
commission, as if successfully completed,
might almost certainly prove an opening to
better things ; and for which he was to start
as soon after his return as possible.

Both Eveleen and Benedetta congratulated

o

him warmly ; and Eva prognosticated for him
all sorts of future successes and well earned
laurels.

The young Italian received her kind words
with a grateful smile, but his manner was
somewhat constrained ; and, notwithstanding
her liveliness, there were a good many gaps
in the conversation. Eveleen fancied she
guessed the reason why. It had long been
patent to her how deeply in love was
poor Eaffaello ; and, even had this not been
the case, it was but natural that, in face
of their approaching parting, the young man
should wish to have his old playfellow and
friend to himself for a few last words. She
therefore made the first reasonable excuse she
could invent for leaving the pair alone, and
when she found that Ino would not accept her

invitation to remain to tea, bade him a most
friendly and cordial adieu, begging him by
no means to cut short his visit on account of
her being obliged to hurry away.

After her departure, however, the conversation
languished yet more and more. There
was but one thought filling Ino's mind, of
which fact Benedetta was fully aware ; and
under such circumstances, talk on indifferent
topics become somewhat of a farce. There
were, however, a few earnest words between
them on the subject of the Maestro.

I shall not see him for long, you knows"

he remarked. " Only a few days, and then I

must be off to Florence. I am sorry to go, for

I fear he will miss me."

He will be quite alone now," said Detta
regretfully. " I will, I must go to him soon,

Ino, tell him that I am coming — that I will

try to come this next autumn if only they will

let me." ('If only I can find the money,' was

what was in her heart, but this she repressed.)

Tell him that I love him the same as ever ;

that I shall never forget those happy evenings

when he played to me his own inspirations ;

or the long walks we took together, when
Piccola acted as his eyes as we went along."

She had that far-away softened look which
was wont to come into her face when she recalled
the old Eoman days, and specially when
she thoucylit on the blind Maestro and his care
for her ; and was all unconscious of her companion's
gaze.

You have a noble heart, and a memory
which forgets not," he said slowly.

And then there was a silence of several
minutes between them ; after which Eafaelino
rose up.

Must you go already ? " asked Benedetta,
wishing the parting over, and yet feeling
constrained to urge him to remain a little
longer.

I must," he said. " What is the use of
delaying longer ? There is no hope for me,
Piccola ; I see it in sour face."

There was indeed sufficient answer — more
than sufficient — in the look of pained
regret which swept across her features.

Oh, Ino! dear Ino ! will you not forget it ? "

No," he replied. " I cannot forget you,

and I will not. "I. wish to meet with no
other who will be to me what you are."

In time," she urged.

She had risen too, and was looking pleadingly
into his face.

God forbid ! " he said. " I do not wish it.
I would rather sorrow without hope, loving
you, Benedetta mia, than rejoice in the love
of any other woman."

She could say no more. But her heart was
full as she placed her two hands within his fora
moment, and he kept them in his strong
grasp, devouring her face with hungry eyes. ^

And so they stood together for awhile in
silence, she not daring to glance up and read
the agitation which she knew was visible on
the dark features bent over hers.

"Detta mia," at length he said, and his
voice trembled a little, " the last time we
parted you were but a little child. You flung
your arms round my neck then, and called
me your dear brother Ino." His voice had
sunk almost to a whisper. " You were buta
little child then, I know," he repeated with
a soft eagerness.

Benedetta gave one quick glance upwards,
while the warm colour rose into her
cheeks.

"You can kiss me now if you like," she
said quietly, " and I will say, ' Good-bye, dear
brother Ino,' again."

Very reverently the young man bent down,
and for a moment pressed his lips to the
smooth white forehead. Somehow, the bestowal
of that kiss seemed to soothe the
bitterness of his trouble, and he felt instinctively
that its sweet remembrance would be a
source of comfort to him in future days.
When he raised his face full of emotion and
colour, the wonderful Italian eyes were shining
with the sudden beauty of a passing gleam

of joy-may

God protect thee ! " he said gently.
And the next moment he was gone.

From her seat at the further end of the
room, Benedetta could see him as he passed
down the street. She watched the look of
sadness that came into his face as, for a moment,
he slackened his pace, and, unconscious
of her observation, gave one last glance towards

the house. Then, as the upright, active
figure, with its quick grace of movement,
turned the street corner, she suddenly rose,
and walked towards the window with the
tears streaming down her face. Was anybody
in the world so good, so true, and so kind as
Ino ? Would any heart, equally noble, ever
love her so entirely ? Why could she not
have sent him away happy with some little
word of hope to cheer his absence ? How was
it that she loved him so dearly, and yet felt
that she could never love him in the way he
wished, and in which he loved her ?

By yourself P " asked a well-known voice
at her side, and Benedetta turned round with
a violent start to encounter Mr. Conway.
Something about the deliberate tone and
languid manner seemed at the present moment
to act as an irritant upon her nerves, while
the crimson colour rose rapidly to her cheeks.

I fear," said Mr. Conway, " that I have
startled you. You did not hear me come in?
I met Bartolucci upon the doorstep."

'' Yes," said Benedetta, a touch of something
almost fierce about her tone as she

noticed her companion's gaze straying towards
her wet cheeks, and then with polite
discretion averting itself, " Ino has been to
say good-bye, and I was crying because of
that. He has always been like a brother
to me."

Mr. Conway muttered something intended
for sympathy, and after a moment's silence —
which Benedetta made no effort to break, not
even moving from her position before the
window — turned towards the door.

I shall see sou again to-night," he remarked,
" at dinner. I will not stop any longer
now. Forgive me, Miss Campbell, for having
intruded upon you."

Benedetta suddenly started from her reverie,
and came towards him. " Don't go," she
said. " I beg your pardon. I am afraid I
have been very rude."

No, indeed," returned Mr. Conway.

I think," said Benedetta, making her confession
and blushing deeply, " I was vexed
that you should find me crying. You startled
me."

Beresford Conway turned his eyes towards

the sweet, tear-stained face before him. " I
wish," he said in a voice she had never heard
from him before, " that you could ever think
me worth shedding a tear over."

He had scarcely finished speaking, before the
door opened, and Mrs. Wilding entered,
followed by Eva. The conversation became-general
and animated, and the elder lady was
full of regrets at having missed the farewell
visit of her pet sculptor. It was a busy,
talkative evening; trains had to be looked
out and plans discussed, and no one had any
opportunity for private reflection upon an
subject. But when at last Benedetta was
alone in her little room, preparing for the
night, it was not merely Ino's last words and
his tender farewells which dwelt upon her
mind. The remembrance of Mr. Conway's
look and tone a few hours before would
obtrude itself upon her thoughts. She was
by no means a girl disposed to weigh every
compliment, or think seriously of every pretty
word addressed to her ; but, knowing as she
did how little disposed was the Honourable
Beresford, owing to his self-appreciation, and

perhaps owing also to the warnings of experience
— to a lavish distribution of ,such favours,
it was impossible for her not to feel a passing
astonishment upon the point. That he meant
anything serious she would not for a moment
imagine. It had pleased him sometimes of late
to* say soft words and throw unusual glances
in her direction ; he was safe, he probably
knew, with her ; for she was neither likely to
discuss his intentions, nor to fall in love with
him. And, with a little laugh of amusement
on her lips as she thought of Beresford Conway,
and a little tender sigh as her mind
dwelt on the companion of her childhood,
Benedetta, wearied out with the combined
effects of packing-up and excitement, fell
quickly asleep.

A railway station is not a remarkably good
place for communications of a private
nature ; and yet, perhaps, no other public
meeting-place has owned to a larger share of
such communications, or could tell so many
domestic tales, tragic and comic. The train
which, next morning, was to convey Mrs.
Wilding and her daughter homewards

started five or ten minutes before that which
was destined to carry Benedetta into Yorkshire.
So that Mr. Conway, who had
politely insisted upon the unwonted exertion
of rising at this early hour, in order to
escort the ladies to the station, was able to
bid farewell to his two cousins without
precipitation before he accompanied the
latter to her own platform. Having,
however, engaged a good place for her in
one of the carriages, he led her on for a
moment beyond the crowd which surged in
front of them, to a comparatively quies
space. Benedetta felt the momentary silence
which ensued to be an awkward one — a
feelings not diminished when at length Mr.
Conway spoke.

I said something to you yesterday," he
remarked ; " I don't know whether sou paid
any attention — probably you thought it
empty compliment. But it wasn't."

Benedetta could think of nothing whatever
to say in answer to this. An irresistible and
most untimely sense of the ludicrous took
possession of her, and she felt it quite possible

that, had she spoken, she might have laughed
aloud. She, therefore, kept silence.

If," continued Mr. Conway, " people —
that's to say, my cousins — hadn't come in 1
might have said more. Miss Campbell," he
ended abruptly, " will you be my wife ?
That's what I was going to say."

There was no inchnatiorx to laugh on
Detta's part now. She was " completely
sobered and considerably startled. This
was a termination to the London visit to
which she had never looked forward. She
was so accustomed to consider her companion
an essentially non-marrying and self-concentrated
man, that the idea that he would deem
it necessary to his happiness to make such an
avowal would have seemed to her absurd.
There was no doubt in her mind as to what
she should say, but considerable doubt as to
how she should say it ; and only the sound
of the departing bell hurried her, at length,
to open her lips. But, as she turned towards
him, Mr. Conway, who had been watching
her face, abruptly cut her short.

Don't speak now," he said ; " you need

not answer me now — at least, unless it can
be ' Yes.' Write to me in a fortnight or
three weeks — there is no hurry — you can
think it over."

Next moment she was in her seat in the
carriage, and her companion was lifting his
hat from his well shaped head, as the train
began to puff slowly out of the station.

What a strange man," thought Detta, as,
with her cheeks a good deal flushed, and
her mind a little perturbed by this sudden
and unexpected incident, she whizzed northwards
in the rapid express. " Considering
the many times we have been together,
he might have chosen a better place than a
railways station to discuss such things."

Mr. Conway was not a person, however,
she decided, to take the step he had done on
the impulse of the moment. Therefore,
probably he had waited, she thought, until
now, because he dared not make love to anyone
until his cousin Fanny was out of sight. In
which matter, and perhaps one or two others,
Benedetta's judgment was harsh, and not altogether
just in regard to her new admirer.
VOL. u. 1 8

Curia ON THE COMMON.

QTEYNTON COURT was a picturesque,
^ rambling old house, situated in the
midst of. picturesque, rambling grounds of
considerable extent. It was built on a little
eminence, and surrounded by a wide extent
of breezy common, which gradually sloped
away towards the sea, the blue line of which,
two miles or more off, was plainly visible
upon the horizon. It was some distance
from any town, and not too rich in neighbours,
who were represented chiefly by the
inhabitants of isolated cottages, a quaint and
old-fashioned population. Perhaps it was an
odd place for Lady Dumbarton, whose soul
delighted in primness, regularity and order,
to choose as her habitual residence ; but she
was a woman of conservative opinions, and of

perhaps stronger affections than the world at
large gave lier credit for, and this property
had been left her by her husband, a man of
wealth, usually residing in Scotland, but who,
immediately subsequent to their marriage,
had brought his bride hither for a few years
years which had been among the happiest
in her life. Since his death, his widow had
lived here entirely, save at such times when
she was in London or visiting her friends.
Long ago she had given up the effort to trim
the extensive grounds into that neatness which
was her ideal of beauty ; and now only a little
formal Dutch garden, laid out just in front of
the drawing-room windows, testified to her
personal sense of symmetry.

Benedetta was always completely happy at
Steynton

If the routine of the house was burdensome
to her, and Miss Sparke's company and
affected, narrow ways trying, there were
always the long scrambling walks, the distant
sea to be reached, the precipitous cliffs to be
scaled, and the enjoyment of a wild free solitude,
which, to the Anglo-woman maid, was

18*

of itself an intense pleasure. Even at Mrs.
Wilding's there was nothing like it. There
was more liberty within doors, but far less
without. At every turn there were large
houses, well made roads, carriages passing
and re-passing, a constant sense of company.
But here there was no necessity to expect
company, or attend to the exigencies of dress.
Detta could go out all the live-long day in an
old hat and serge dress, hunting up rare ferns,
collecting shells, or exploring the rock caves
to her heart's content, coming home towards
dusk with rosy cheeks and hair disordered by
the wind, after hours of health-giving exercise.
And then there were the pets — birds and
beasts of various kinds, having their abode in
the stables a few hundred yards from the
house. It was no part of Lady Dumbarton's
character to attach herself to the lower creation.
With the exception of her own miniature
and over-indulged lap-dog, Dandy, she
had no liking whatever for pets. But
Thompson, the old coachman, who had been
with her nearly twenty years, was a privileged
person, and allowed to make his

arrangements pretty much this own way, and,
lie being a great lover of animals, a small
menagerie lead by degrees domesticated itself
within the stable-j'-ard.

Two members of this were especial favourites
with Benedetta. One was the watch-dog.
Yarrow, and the other was a solemn brown
owl that sat all day long blinking on a ledge
in the stable which accommodated Lady
Dumbarton's two elderly carriage horses, but
which at night, according to Thompson's report,
was a very lively customer, doing considerable
damage amongst the mice that
infested the premises. Eollo was very tame,
and, whether from innate sociability or sleepiness,
made no objection to the caresses even
of a comparative stranger like Detta, allowing
her to smoothe his soft head and scratch his
iiuffy neck, while he blinked at her out of the
corner of a half-opened eye, and even at times
hopped on one leg an inch nearer to her upturned
face, gently nibbling her cheek with a
non-aggressive beak. When Benedetta started
for her daily walk a visit was always first paid
to these two friends. Eollo would sometimes

be treated to a grape or other, dainty, and then
Yarrow would be loosed, and, with a bound of
delight, would start with her on her distant
explorations, usually directed, not down the
carriage-drive, but honor the rouo^h cart-track
leading across the common towards the
sea.

Down this path they were proceeding one
afternoon a fortnight or more after her arrival.
It was an exceptionally beautiful spring-like
day, the sun was brilliant, and Yarrow in the
most affectionate of spirits ; nevertheless Detta
looked a little perturbed, and it was only after
a ten minutes' brisk walk in the clear bright
sunshine that her face resumed its wonted expression
of serenity. The conversation which
had just passed between herself and her aunt
in the luncheon-room had, in truth, wounded
the girl in her tenderest part. A remark that
had been dropped by her in all innocence
during lunch, and alluding to the presence of
Eafaelino Bartolucci in Mrs. Wilding's house,
had been the cause of the altercation.

Do you mean to say," Lady Dumbarton
had asked, " that your aunt invited that young

man — positively invited him — to join lier daily
domestic circle ? "

Yes," said Detta, " of course lie was with
us. He often came. Why should he not ? "

There is no ' of course ' about it," remarked
Lady Dumbarton severely. " Quite
the contrary. I did not think even Fanny
would have been so injudicious ; and after
appearing to agree with me so thoroughly as
to his being a most undesirable acquaintance
! "

Detta flushed crimson with indignant anger.

"Why should he be an undesirable acquaintance
? " she asked. " He is far superior
to most of the young men who came tous
in London."

Oh, my dear ! " murmured Miss Sparke,
a Papist ! "

Benedetta threw her in silence a glance
which quenched her.

"You speak too hotly, Benedetta. It is
not at all becoming in a young girl, especially
when the subject is one of the opposite sex."

"He is my friend," she replied, "and has
been all mv life."

Nevertheless," cont iiiued her aunt, disregarding
this observation, '' I will reply to
your question. Neither by birth, position,
nor religion, is this young Italian fitted to
associate with you. You have had a good
English education, Benedetta ; you are placed
amongst English ladies and gentlemen. I
gave you credit for greater sense. These
people were no doubt very kind to you ; but
they are a thing of the past. You are in a
different sphere now, and must forget foolish
foreign reminiscences. It was all very well
as a child ; but your friends now must
not be chosen from the ranks of artists and
fiddlers'"

My friends will be the same that they
always were," said Detta, restraining herself
with difficulty from a more passionate rejoinder.
'' I am not all an English-woman as you
say — my mother was of Italy ; it is as much my
country as England. My father loved these
people — he lived amongst them, when — the —
English were cold and unkind to him. The
Maestro was his friend : he is a fiddler, yes —
he is a genius that can wring the souls of

men, and bring heavenly music down to earth.
Yet he was an English gentleman too."

Her voice softened, and her indignation
seemed to fade away. " Poor old Maestro ! "
she murmured half to herself. " Feeble and
ill, and all alone ! " " Oh," she said, raising
her eyes earnestly towards Lady Dumbarton,
why cannot I go to him again for a little
while, aunt, to nurse him ? "

"That," replied har aunt tersely, as sh
rose from the table, " you shall never do with
my consent ! "

And Benedetta had wandered out sadly
enough, to gain what comfort she could for
her aggrieved feelings, from the companionship
of Yarrow and the bracing effects of air
and exercise.

Benedetta is a stubborn girl," remarked
Lady Dumbarton with unwonted heat, to her
companion, as they re-entered the drawing-room
; " she sticks to those low foreign people
out of sheer obstinacy."

She is very romantic," remarked Miss
Sparke, in her soft voice ; " did your ladyship
remark her extraordinary poetic flights when

she got upon the subject of her oil music
master ? One feels oneself — he, he ! " laughed
Miss Sparke, " very common clay indeed in
her company ! "

She is not usually affected," replied Lady
Dumbarton, who could be just even when
angry.

Affected ! dear no ! Your ladyship
mistakes me. Only a little romantic in her
friendship, dear girl."

Romantic in fiddlestick ! " exclaimed
Lady Dumbarton impolitely. " She is a fool,
that is all."

Meanwhile Benedetta had walked with
rapid steps across the common, and had now
flung herself down upon a little grassy knoll
which was one of her favourite resting-places.
A soft west wind was blowing, gently stirring
the long grass which rustled all about her,
the blue sky was flecked with tiny white
cloudlets that scudded eastwards, and the
broad azure line of the sea shone and sparkled
in the distance.

Yarrow lay ]beside her in perfect contentment,
every now and then lifting his head to

look into her face, or wao-oinor this tail in
acknowledgment of a word. Yarrow was no
aristocratic collie ; he was a thorough sheepdog,
whose immediate progenitors had scoured
the northern hills in pursuit of an active
and useful calling:. His body was covered
with short, rough yellow ]hair, and his tail
was but a stump three or four inches long.
But, from the neck upwards, he was distinctly
and entirely beautiful. His long tawny ruff
was thick and handsome, his face beautifully
marked, and his eyes peerless even among the
eyes of dogs. They where great brown eyes,
full of a pathetic earnestness and integrity,
and capable of expressing every emotion
possil)ie to dog-nature. Detta often thought
that they were like Ino's eyes ; only, instead
of the human passions expressed in his, with
Yarrow thei-e was nothim:;^ but the self-abrogating
love and perfect trust of the
canine species.

belie lay there for long on the dry, sandy
grass— for, although only April, the day
was singularly balmy — her thoughts wandering,
as they often did, half sadly, half tenderly,

back to the old cliildifsli days and the Maestro.
She must, she would, get to him somehow this
autumn, were it only for a short visit. 15ut,
once there, might it not be that she would not
return at all ? Why was it that this thought
caused her a little startled pang ? Was not
Italy her own country, and Eome her own
city ? Could she not be content to take up
her abode in that large bare room at the top
of the Palazzo ; where, so long as the Maestro
lived, she well knew she would be more than
welcome ? Had she become so anglicised that
the prospect of a return to the old life should
trouble her ; and so entirely adopted her new
country as to grow forgetful of the old one ?
Ah, no ! Eome would always be to her the
city of cities ; and no one, not even Eva, be as
much to her as was the Maestro. Nevertheless,
her new home, her new relations had become
too dear for her to contemplate leaving them
without pain. And she could not but feel it
possible also that there might be but little in
the way of companionship there to repay her
for the loss of her English acquaintances.
As shejay dreaming on, a visitor, whose

advent lie little expected, was beiiii? cashiered
in at the Court.

He was an exceedingly polite and cordial
visitor, evidently anxious to create a good
impression, and to render himself as agreeable
as possible to his entertainers The little dog
was inquired after and caressed ; Miss Sparke
was congratulated on her blooming appearance,
and Lady Dumbarton condoled with on
account of her recent illness. All of which
tended, I fear, to prove that the new arrival
was a deceiver. For it was undoubtedly a
fact that he detested fat Dandy, had no partiality
whatever for the lady companion, and
only remembered Lady Dumbarton's rheumatic
attack on account of the slight limp
which was its legacy.

It was only after a quarter of an hour's
call that he ventured to enquire for Miss
Campbell ; and, being informed she
was out, took his departure with no unseemly
haste. Licked the impression he left
behind him was so much more pleasing
than usual, that, for the first time in her life,
Lady Dumbarton allowed her companion to

chant this praises without pulling her up
abruptly.

After all,' reflected the former lady to
herself, ' things might go worse than for him
to take a fancy to Detta. He is a shallow,
conceited person, but he would be better than
the other. He is at any rate a man of birth and
position, and neither a foreigner nor a Papist

Meanwhile Detta — her eyes fixed on the
distant sea — was startled from her reverie by
a slight gruff bark from Yarrow. She glanced
up and saw some one coming towards them
through the long grass. In another moment
she had recognised Beresford Conway; and
rose from the ground. He raised his cap to
her, and the girl sprang up lightly as a bird,
her slight figure on the little eminence outlined
against the sky, as he approached. There
was a little increase of colour in her face as
she held out her hand, but no confusion about
her manner. She would have felt really glad
to see Mr. Conway, if it had not been for her
dread of a recurrence to the topic started so
suddenly and strangely at the London terminus
the last time of their meeting.

I have no doubt you are astonished to
see nie here," he remarked as he came up to
her, "- but I happened to be m the neighbourhood,
so I thought I miodit as well call."

You have left Town ? " enquired Delta,
struck the next moment with a sense of the
originality of her remark.

Yes. I grow more sick of London every
year, though one never knows quite what todo
with oneself anywhere else in spring. So
I joined a friend who was going a walking
tour to all the abbess round here — you know
Yorkshire is very full of abbeys. Won't you
sit down again ? " he added abruptly.

Detta hesitated.

''•I must be goini]^ back soon," she said.

But not just yet ? If you go now I shall
feel I have driven you away."

She reseated herself silently, and Beresford
flunof himself on the OTass beside her. Yarrow
lying between them. After all, Mr. Conway
could be an agreeable companion enough
when he chose ; and it was pleasant to talk to
somebody less silly and narrow-minded than
Miss Sparke, and less precise and severe than

Lady Dumbarton. After a while she began to
forget the inevitable subject before them, and
to laugh and chat with her neighbour, listening
with interest to his account of the commencement
of a block of real model lodging-houses
which were to take the place of some
of the more squalid, broken-down tenements
on his London property

It was a grand victory," he said. " Old
McClure would never have given in but for
Mr. Mowbray ; but now he's bound to admit
that decent houses may be made to pay just
as well as piastres. It seems to me, Miss
Campbell, that there is very little benevolence
in all these reforms of yours. They promise
mostly to be self-paying concerns."

I suppose," said Detta laughing, " the
fountains are not self-paying ? "

No, the pumps are about the only things
that don't bring in dividends. What a pretty
view you have here. Miss Campbell."

It is my favourite nook," said Detta. " I
come here nearly every day."

And the dog with you ? He is a nice
dog," said Mr. Conway, holding out his hand

to Yarrow, who at once responded to the
invitation. " A very nice dog," he repeated,
as Yarrow looked up into his face with his
noble eyes. "A different sort of beast
from that over-fed little lap-dog up at the
house."

Benedetta answered by a warm smile as he
continued to stroke the rough head. His
appreciation of Yarrow did not lessen her
regard for him ; and as he bent over the doo-she
thought lie had never seen so pleasant an
expression on his face before. He seemed
quite a different man from the Mr. Conway
she had last seen in London. The languor of
his manner was almost gone, and the drawl
far less defined, while his tall athletic fissure
showed to advantage in the rough grey tweed
suit he now wore.

Presently he drew her into conversation
upon a different subject. " What were you
thinking of so profoundly when-first I saw
3'ou?" he asked, "You were too absorbed
to see me until I was close at hand."

I was thinking of Rome," she replied at
once, " and wishing, as I am always wishing

VOL. II. 19

now, that I knew how to get there to see the
Maestro once again."

•' I know," said Beresford. " You told me
all about him — do you remember ? that night
at Cousin Fanny's dance. You are very fond
of him ? "

I love him more dearly than anybody in
the world," she replied.

Better than Ino ? " he enquired, after a
short pause.

The colour came into her cheeks, and a
bright light into the eyes which had been
gazing dreamily out upon the distant horizon.

Why do you always talk to me of Ino ? "
she asked, a touch of impatient anger in her
voice. " I am not in love with him ; though,"
she added, " I love him verj^, very dearly."

I beg sour pardon," he said, with a strong
inward gleam of satisfaction. " I spoke on
impulse, and did not mean to be impertinent.
Yet," he added with sudden generosity, " it
would not be strange if a woman lost her
heart to that young man. He is very
attractive."

Detta raised her eyes to his with a smile of

cordial sympathy, almost gratitude. She loved
to feel that Ino was well thought of and to
hear him praised. It seemed to soothe her
own upbraiding over the fact that she could
not give him that particular love for which he
craved.

For some minutes they talked on. Then
there came a pause, and Detta's heart sank,
for she knew that now the inevitable must
come to the front.

And so it did, but after a very quiet and
unobtrusive fashion.

Have sou thought it over ? " asked Mr.
Conway. " Do you — think it possible ? "

Detta was silent for a moment. He had
been so kind, so pleasant that morning, that
she felt loath to pain him, even though the
pain were, as she suspected, a very slight and
ileetins^ one.

"I am afraid — " she bef?an. Then she
suddenly raised her earnest eyes and glowing
cheeks towards him. " Oh, Mr. Conway !
why on earth should you want me 1 You see
such heaps of people — nice girls, much better
and grander than I am in every way. Why

IC*

should you want me ? " lie asked, lier eloquence
coming to an abrupt conclusion.

I want you," he replied, returning her
glance calmly, " because you are the first girl
I ever met who is perfectly simple, perfectly
natural, and perfectly straightforward. But
that isn't the only reason," he continued,
suddenly turning away and decapitating the
grasses with his stick. " It was at first, but
there's another now. You have grown dear
to me, Benedetta "

Detta was more touched-than she would have
believed possible by this quite t and unromantic
declaration. How different it was from the
rush of passionate eloquence, from the intense
fervour expressed by poor Ino when he made
love to her ! And yet, somehow, the few
words that passed as by an effort from Mr
Conway's lips left her under the impression
of an equal reality and a similar strength. She
answered him sadly enough. " It's no good,"
she said. " I am afraid I am hard. Oh, Mr.
Conway, I am so sorry."

Never mind," he replied. " I shan't give
up. I am awfully pig-headed when I have

made up my mind to anything. And, until I
hear you are going to marry somebody else,
I shall stick to it. But don't be afraid, I'm
not going to pester you."

"It seems so old," said Data, " that you
should trouble yourself to care about me.
Eveleen has often told me that you could
marry almost anyone you liked."

Perhaps that's the reason I've never
thought of marrying until now," he replied.
Game that requires no stalking is of little
value in one's eyes. If you hadn't snubbed
me at first, Miss Campbell, perhaps I mi<yht
never have thouijfht of this."

Did I snub you ? " asked Benadetta. " It
was very impertinent of me, only just from
school."

To snub a man of my advanced age ? "
he asked. " Precisely. That was your great
charm. Your serious e3^es often looked at me
with a certain perplexity, almost disgust. It
was a new experience. Confess now, Miss
Campbell, you thought very badly of me at
first?"

"No, not badly exactly," said Detta.

But," lie added with a straight-forward
simplicity, " you did puzzle me, and I
thought you perhaps — a little — unreal."

'' Affected, you mean," was the calm rejoinder.
" As you grow older, Miss Campbell,
you will fid that everybody in this world is
more or less unreal."

I hope not," said Detta. " Aunt Dumbarton
is never unreal," lie added.

Then she is disagreeable instead," he
replied promptly. " As a rule, what are
called sincere people feel it their duty to
make themselves very unpleasant to those
about them."

Then, as Detta rose up and began to return
homewards, he turned with her, walking
slowly by her side. When at length they
reached the point where the path divided,
on one hand leading to the drive, on the
other to the high road, he stood still.

I must say good-bye here," he said.
Lawless," he added w^itli a short laugh,
weill wonder what has become of me. I
left him writing his letters in the inn-parlour,
telling him I was going just for a turn.

Good-bye, Miss Campbell. It is possible
I may turn up again at the end of ten days.
We shall have had enough of the abbeys by
then, I daresay."

i shall be very glad," replied Delta, more
in answer to his looks than his words. Yet
something in her face prompted his next
remark.

"There need be no recurrence — then — of
unpleasant topics, you know," he said. " I
am in no hurry. We shall be friends, shall
we not, as before ? "

Of course ! You have been so very kind,"
she added after a moment, suddenly burdened
by the feeling that she had never sufficiently
appreciated him ; and the remembrance
that, notwithstanding the apparent apathy of
this apparently worldly man, he had nevertheless,
in all domestic events and family
discussions of which she had been cognisant,
invariably taken the unworldly and high-principled
side. It suddenly flashed upon
her that she owed him a mental apology
for the low estimate she had at first formed
of his character ; and also that, since the

commencement of their acquaintance, lie had
treated her not only with kindness, but with
that respect for her opinion, that unspoken
sympathy with what her aunt called her odd
foreign thoughts and ways, which was even
more flattering to a girl of her disposition as
coming from one so much her senior. But
the consideration that she could not well
apologise without stating the nature of her
offence, and that her thanks might possibly
be misunderstood, caused her to
hesitate.

What have I been kind about ? " he asked,
seeing that she paused. " In wanting to
marry you ? "

"I did not mean that," said Detta crimsoning
; " though of course that is very kind of
you, I suppose, and very astonishing "

It couldn't astonish anybody more than
it does myself," said Mr. Conway naively. " I
never proposed to anybody since I was nineteen
— thirteen years ago."

You speak as if plenty of people had
proposed to you I " observed Detta, who
thought that if he could so easily joke

upon the subject, she also might be excused
a little lightness.

So they have," he returned coolly ; " a
fair proportion. Don't look disgusted. Miss
Campbell."

I am," said Detta. " I don't like to hear
girls spoken of in that ways"

Most of them weren't girls," he returned.
But all girls are not like you."

Many are a great deal better — a great
deal nobler than I am."

Then they would be too good, too noble
for me," he rejoined. "Good-bye."

He held her hand in his for a moment ; and
then dropping it and raising his cap, half
turned away ; but the next moment came
back. " Whatever happens, you know," he
said, " it will make no • difference — a — to the
Model Lodging Houses."

And, before Detta had decided whether he
was serious or in joke, he was already halfway
down the hill towards the high road,
covering the distance quickly, despite his
easy, half-lounging step.

For a moment she stood still, feeling half

inclined to laugh. It was difficult to realize
that the tall figure walking so leisurely away
with so undisturbed a countenance could belong
to a man who less than half an hour ago
had made her an offer of marriage, and been
refused. How different it had all been from
poor Ino's love-raking ! There was nothing
in this man's manner to move her feelings —
r.o fire, no passion — it almost seemed at times
as if he were making fun both of himself and
her. Did he really care about her ? and if so,
was it only an illustration of the phlegmatic
coolness of the English character ? Then,
something rose up within her and asserted
boldly that, notwithstanding his lack of asseveration
or outward emotion, the Englishman
had spoken the truth when he told her that
he should be constant to his present purpose.
Life was quiet enough at Stejmton Court,
and stirring events but few ; so that Bene-delta
had no lack of leisure to give to this
new subject for reflection, and it mist be confessed
that for the next few days it occupied
a considerable place in her mind. On reentering
the drawing-room, she found her

aunt leaning back in an easy chair, listening
to a book read aloud by Miss Sparke, and
which, judging from her frequent yawns, she
found far from entertaining.

*' There ! that will do, Sj^arke," she said as
Delta came in. "I have no doubt he is a
very deep young man, but he's very wordy
and very dull. I can quite believe that the
study of prophecy has driven more people
out of their minds than any other subject."

For Lady Dumbarton, in her own domestic
circle, and after her own grim fashion, could
occasionally condescend to jokes even upon a
serious subject. " Mr. Conway has been here,*
Delta," she observed.

Yes," replied her niece, " I met him, and
he stopped and talked to me."

On a tour with Robert Lawless. I know
his family well — second son of Lord Dennis
—a very steady, superior young man, I
believe. I told Mr. Conway to bring him hereto
lunch if they returned this way, as he
seemed to think probable."

"Most agreeable, Mr. Conway was," remarked
Miss Sparke. " So kind about everything.

He is a most gentlemanly, pleasing
person."

"Ah!" said Lady Dumbarton, with grim
humour, " we all know you are in love with
Mr. Conway, Sparke. He is certainly a
gentlemanly young man, however, and for
reasons of his own made himself very polite
here to-day. But he is of the world,
worldly."

Worldly, yes," said Miss Sparke, beginning
to recover from her blushes. " He needs
awakening, he is not as yet alive, it is to be
feared, to his immortal interests. But the soil
is good — the seed only requires planting."

'' It's no good your trying to plant it,
Sparke," observed Lady Dumbarton ironically,
pursuing her victim without mercy ; " if any
woman ever plants that seed, it will be a young
and pretty one, not a plain and elderly one."

And Miss Sparke was so completely crushed
by this retort, that, notwithstanding the strong
distaste, almost aversion, which she felt for her
aunt's companion, Detta could have found it
in her heart to pity her.

THE major's confidences.

THE next few days passed quietly enough,
without incident of any kind, save the
usual variations of spring weather, to mark
their comines and goings. But, one mornings,
about a week after Mr. Conway's call, a note
arrived for Lady Dumbarton which appeared
to give her pleasure.

It is an invitation to lunch," she said,
"and I am asked to bring you, Detta. It is
from my old friend, Mrs. Aynsley, of Crags-low
Castle. She has been prevented by a bad
cold from coming to see me the last few
weeks, and I fancy sou have never met her.
But she is very anxious I should come over
to day to meet her nephew, Major Drew, who
arrived unexpectedly from abroad last night.
I shall certainly go. I have a great regard for

Arthur Drew. I have known him from a
child, and think most highly of him. You
must be ready to start by twelve, Benedetta,
for it is a long drive."

Cragslow Castle, notwithstanding its imposing
title, was, although a very ancient, nota
very handsome or commodious residence.
Part of it was quite out of repair, and had almost
fallen into ruins ; and only one wing was
occupied by the present owner, whose whole
establishment intimated the fact that her
means were of but moderate proportions. The
grounds, too, were straggling and untidy, requiring
the attention of those gardeners
which it was not within the scope of Mrs.
Aynsley's income to employ. But within the
house everything seemed to take its tone from
the bright, active, cheery little mistress, who,
although a solitary, elderly woman, more
than half an invalid, struck Benedetta as
having the sweetest face and the pleasantness
expression she had seen for a long time.

There were no men-servants to wait at
Cragslow Castle. Neat, civil little maids
served the guests during the well appointed

but unpretentious lunch, with a cordial
alacrity that was almost akin to hospitality.
The visitor, too, pleased Detta at first sight.
He was a big, strong man, with a bronzed
face and dark brown curling hair, among
which shone here and there a silver thread or
two. He was the military man all over, with
his stiff upright deportment, his heavy moustache
and clean shaven chin, and with an expression
of kindly mirth and of honesty in his
blue eyes which could not fail to render him
attractive. The luncheon passed off pleasantly
enough, almost merrily ; and Detta was astonished
to find how far her aunt, in the society
of those she had long known and cordially
liked, could unbend her usual rigidity of
manner.

Lady Dumbarton became almost genial
herself under the combined influence of two
such genial people as Mrs. Aynsley and Major
Drew; and her niece perceived that the regard
which she extended to the latter was as evidently
cordially reciprocated by him.

After lunch they strolled about the garden,
and here, for the first time, Detta learnt that

Major Drew ^Yas acquainted with her relations
at Ashley Manor. Mrs. Wilding's name had
been once mentioned incidentally during the
meal by Lady Dumbarton, but it was only enpassant,
and the subject had been taken up by
no one at the time. Detta was astonished
now to find how much the new arrival seemed
to know of both her aunt and cousin, and was
impressed by the unconcealed eagerness he
displayed in his questions concerning them.

Still in the same old place," he said
musingly. " It is six years ago since I was
there — more than that. It seems a long time
to me. I have been in so many different
parts. Is your cousin changed, Miss Campbell
? "

I cannot tell," she said hesitating.
'' Though it is just six years, too, since I
came to England and first saw Eva."

Is it indeed ? " he asked, looking at her
with interest.

I was quite a child then," said Detta,
and children don't notice changes in
people."

Of course, you would be a child," he

murmured. "But, after all," he added
quickly, "Eva — Miss Wilding, I mean — is
young still."

She is seven or eight and-twenty," said
Detta.

Not twenty-eight till next July," remarked
Major Drew, his well-tanned face reddening a
little so soon as he had spoken.

A suspicion, which for the last half hour
had been dimly defining itself, now began to
take clear outlines in Detta's mind.

"Aunt," she said, when they had made
their farewells, and were driving back to
Steynton Court at the usual funereal pace suitable
to the age and infirmities of the two
antique carriage horses and the almost
equally antique coachman, " do tell me who
is this Major Drew ? Is he " she paused.

I know what you are going to ask," replied
her aunt, " and I will answer you.
Major Drew is the man to whom your cousin
Eva was engaged six or seven years ago — the
match which your Aunt Fanny broke off, as
she would not allow her daughter to marry
on six hundred a year. It isn't a fortune, I
vor. II. 20

admit ; but good birth and Ingle principle are
worth something, and a man of ability like
Arthur Drew always has a hope of bettering
his prospects. I did not blame her much at
the time — Arthur Drew was a o^reat deal too
good for her daughter — and she has always
been a worldly woman. But I don't see what
she has gained by throwing him over, and
putting Eveleen to set her cap by turns at
all the county bachelors ! "

A pink flush rushed to Delta's cheeks, and
indignant words to her lips. The one subject
of discord between herself and Lady Dumbarton
was her cousin Eveleen. Sneers
against herself were few and comparatively
easy to bear — even Mrs. Wilding's name she
could silently allow to pass under the fire of
some withering denunciation — but Eva, dear,
kind Eva, whose heart, notwithstanding her
bringing up, was so affectionate, and the depth
of whose nature was hidden from all those
between whom and herself, as was the case
here, there existed neither sympathy nor regarded
should not be traduced before
her !

She never set lier cap at anybody in her
whole life ! " she exclaimed hotly.

You have known her for so long a period
of her life, have you not ? " asked her aunt
drily.

"It doesn't matter," returned the girl

No one knows her heart better than 1

do."

That must be a priceless advantage to

sou, I should say," remarked the other, not

over pleased by this ebullition.

"And as for Major Drew, he is very nice,
no doubt ; but I don't think any man could
possibly be too good for Eva."

Well, at any rate," said her aunt ; " I
hope he won't be such a fool as to try it on
again. If he asks my advice, that is what I
shall say to him."

And if," said Detta, with equal firmness,
he asks mine, I shall tell him the reverse
! "

Does it not strike you," remarked Lady
Dumbarton somewhat severely, " that your
observations, considering your age, are a little
forward, not to say impertinent, Benedetta ? "

And lier niece receiving' this rebuke in
silence, the conversation ceased.

Two or three days later Benedetta was
walking in the direction of the stables with
the purpose of escorting Yarrow to his kennel,
it being not far from lunch time. She had
just entered the yard when she heard the
sound of horse's hoofs behind her, and, glancing
round, perceived Major Drew coming
through the gateway. He jumped down, and
giving the reins to Thompson, whom he saluted
as an old friend, came towards her with a
smile, shaking hands cordially.

I took it for granted Lady Dumbarton
would be in at this hour," he said. " It looks
like asking myself to lunch, does it not ? Such
a glorious day for a ride. And you and this
old fellow have been for a walk ? "

We have been out since ten o'clock," she
replied, as Major Drew bent to fasten the
dog's collar for her.

You look like it," he remarked, glancing
with admiration at the healthy brightness and
colour on her fresh 3"oung face.

It's a good sight for sir 'been to see you

again, Captain Drew," said the old coachman
appearing at the staple door, and smilingly
re-touching his hat. " You've been in a many
foreign parts since we last saw you here, I
reckon — pretty nigh round the world, I daresay?"


Oh, no, Thompson," laughed the major,
not cjuite that. 1 have been most of the
time in India, north or south. But 1 am right
glad to see this place again. We must have
a good chat about old times before I go,
Thompson."

'' Yes, sir ; if jow please, sir," said Thompson,
disappearing again into his stables.

That old fellow has known me ever since
I was a lad," said Drew, as he and his companion
made their way out of the yard together.
"- 1 spent all my holidays with my
aunt, Mrs. Aynsley, when I was a l)oy. Crags-low
Castle was my home ; and I remember
Lady Dumbarton all my life. Some people
think her stiff, but she has always been very
kind to me."

"' You are a great favourite with her," remarked
Detta.

And yet I remember as a boy often saying
and doing most dreadfully impudent
things in this house, besides once hopelessly
disgracing myself by pulling the dining-room
clock to pieces when I happened to be left
alone with it."

Every boy does that at least once in his
life," she observed smiling.

I have come to say good-bye to-day. I
have made up my mind to be off tomorrow.
I hope wee shall meet again some time, somewhere,
Miss Campbell ? "

Detta was but a woman, and was not absolutely
devoid of woman's curiosity, at any rate
where the subject was in any way connected
with one she loved.

So she could not resist a little harmless
shaft.

"Perhaps," she said, "we may meet at
Ashley Manor, as you know my aunt and
cousin."

Her companion's bronzed face flushed a
deeper colour, and he suddenly slackened his
pace.

Miss Campbell," he said, " I feel I should

like to tell you something. Yon have a look
about you that invites confidence. You are
almost a stranger to nie ; but I am sure," and
he paused a moment, " that you love her very
dearly. Did sou ever know that I was engaged
to your cousin some years ago ? " Then,
before she could answer him, he continued
eagerly : "Did she ever tell sou of that time
ever speak of me to you ? "

Not by name," replied Detta hesitating.
You see I was a child then. But, not long
ago, she spoke once of somebody that I think
must have been you."

Do you really think it ? " he asked, his
face radiant. '' It is a long time, is it not,
Miss Campbell ? Nearly seven years, and nota
word or Hie between us all the while. But,
at any rate, she is single. That is the first
thing I found out when I got back to England.
And it can't be for want of offers."

Eva has refused people, I know," remarked
her cousin.

Of course," he said proudly ; "half the men
she met were always mad after her. So
that is a good sign, is it not, Miss Campbell ? "

I .should say so," said Detta. smiling ; asher
companion, too intent upon the conversation
to be well aware what he was doing,
turned round on approaching the end of the
shrubbery, and began to pace slowly back
again in the opposite direction.

Well, at any rate, I'm going to try my
luck there again. So long as there's nobody
else, there's a hope. And that's far more than
I ever expected. I couldn't stop in England
and not try again. Things are a little better
with me now than they were then ; and
perhaps Mrs. Wilding may be more amenable
to argument: If — if matters go as I wish
them, and if she isn't — why then, Miss Campbell,
after all." and Drew lifted a happy,
smiling face, " it is possible to do without
one's mother-in-law ! Though I hope it may
never come to that. And you really think I
have a chance ? You do not think I am mad
to rush down there and expect her to
remember me after a seven years' absence ? "

Eva has a long memory, I think," said
her cousin thoughtfully.

God bless her ! " exclaimed Drew

reverently. Then lie held out his hand for
Detta's, and gave it an almost painful pressure.
You have made me very happy," he said ;
I can't thank you as I wish. I had made
up my mind to go ; and now you have given
me extra courage, and I begin to feel I shall
be s access ful."

"I know nothing," said Detta. "But I
certainly say to you, ' go and try.' "

And if," he said, " it all comes right and
I am successful, I shall not forget that it was
you who gave me Rope and encouragement
to go."

There was a cordial exchange of sympathy
on Detta's face ; but she made no reply in
words, as together they entered the house.

Major Drew was, as he expected, asked to
stop luncheon ; and, bright as was evidently
his natural disposition, Detta could not help
feeling secretly amused to perceive her aunt's
curiosity as to the cause of the exuberant and
boyish high spirits that had to-day taken
possession of him. She could not help
picturing to herself that lady's probable
indignation had she been made aware of the

fact of the secret understanding that existed
between the major and herself. But, having
a shrewd remembrance (as no doubt he had)
of Lady Dumbarton's very limited regard
for her niece Eva, Major Drew was perhaps
not likely to make her the early recipient of
his confidences.

They had already seated themselves at table
Ashen the door bell rang, and another arrival
was announced — no less a person than Mr.
Beresford Conway. He was shown into the
dining-room, and approached Lady Dumbarton
apologetically. " I have come at an
awkward hour, I fear, and am disturbing you
at your lunch."

By no means," she said politely ; " you
are just in time. Is not Mr. Lawless with
you?"

Impossible, I regret to say. He is so
done up he cannot walk another mile, and no
conveyance of any kind was to be had at the
enlightened village where we are stopping.
In fact I think I — a — left him in bed. But
he begged me to return cordial thanks for
your invitation."

Then, as he turned round to greet the
other ladies, Mr. Conway gave a sudden start
of surprise " Drew ! " he exclaimed, in a
tone more nearly representing delight than
Detta would have given his voice credit
for possessing, " where have you fallen
from?"

From Cragslow first," said the other.
Before that, from Simla." And the two
shook hands with that silent prolonged clasp
which, amongst the less demonstrative
members of the English male community
corresponds to half-a-dozen kisses on either
cheek and a rush of excited salutation from
our continental neighbours.

This is a bit of luck I didn't anticipate,"
said Drew, so soon as Mr. Conww
had greeted the other members of the party
and had seated himself at the table. "I
never expected to find you out of London at
this time of the year, Conway."

"Mr. Conway is taking a walking tour,"
said Lady Dumbarton. "He is waking up at
last to the fact that .there may be something
worth looking at outside London, and is

going the round of our Beautiful Yorkshire
abbeys."

Mr. Conway had intended this hostess to
reply for him. It was a little trick he had
when any remark was made to which it did
not suit him to respond — pausing sufficiently
long to induce someone else to step into the
breach — a stratagem which, as in the present
case, generally succeeded. Nevertheless, he
avoided Major Drew's e3^es as that gentleman
innocently replied. '' Indeed ! " he said,
with a perplexed air. " That is a new
line for you, is it not, Conway ? You
never used to strike me as being particularly
fond of abbeys or indeed anything
rural, unless it was in the way of sport, in the
old days."

Many of us improve as life goes on,"
remarked Mr. Conway coolly, as he gazed
serenely into his plate. " I have been studying
art a good deal this spring ; and now I
am e^oinf? in for nature."

Oh, indeed ! " repeated his friend, still
half-puzzled. " Plenty of opportunities for
studying art in London, they tell me. Is

it true, Miss Campbell, that ladies are not
in the fashion now unless they adorn
their heads with other people's hair ?
That is a scandal that has penetrated to
India."

What was it you said about leaving tomorrow
? " Mr. Conway enquired, turning
towards his friend as the ladies rose from the
luncheon table.

Why are you in such a hurry ? Where
are you off to ? "

I am going," Detta heard the Major
reply, " to — to the midland counties — to pay
some visits."

He wisely left the first question unanswered
; and there was no time for
prolonged conversation of a private nature,
so that the secret which had been confided
to Detta was still, it seemed, unshared even
by Mr. Conway. But, had her back not
been turned towards the pair, she might
have perceived the quick glance of inquiry
on the one face, and the answering look of
consciousness upon the other, and satisfied
herself that the new-comer had arrived at

a tolerably correct suspicion of the state of
affairs.

She was not left long in doubt, however,
upon this point. Shortly after lunch, Major
Drew rose to bid adieu to his hostess ; and
whilst still addressing her. Miss Sparke being
beside them, Mr. Conway managed to drop a
few confidential words in Benedetta's direction.


I see you know it all," he said. " I
suppose he has told you ? He is the best
fellow in the world. I think he'll win this
time ; don't you ? "

Detta had barely time to glance back an
acquiescent answer, before the visitor turned
towards her, saying good-bye with a long
hand-clasp and a smile of understanding.

The two friends walked together down the
drive ; and after seeing the major off, Mr.
Conway retraced his steps to make his own
adieux.

"Are you returning to London now?"
enquired Lady Dumbarton.

For a time, I suppose," he replied.
'but I have some thoughts of f?oingf abroad

t)^""'o

presently. If you visit your old Maestro,
Miss Campbell, it is possible that we may
meet in Eome."

My niece," remarked Lady Dumbarton,
somewhat stiffly, " will have no opportunity,
that I am aware of, of visiting Italy this
year."

Indeed ? I am sorry to hear it. Then,
Miss Campbell, you must let me know, if I
go, whether I can take any message from you
to him ? "

You are very kind," she said, vaguely.

"Probably," said Mr. Conway, "I shall
also pay a call upon our friend Ino, if he be
then in Eome. He invited me, when in
London, to visit his studio."

Is that the artist ? " enquired Lady Dumbarton,
with something as nearly approaching
a sniff as it 'would be possible for a person
of rank to indulge in.

He is a genius," said Mr. Conway ; " so
they tell me. I never had the pleasure of
knowing a genius before ; but certainly did
not think they could be such pleasant
fellows."

Chapter IV.

Melius AND Demerits.

,VELEEN was a bright correspondent,
JJ whose letters were always popular
amongst her friends ; but never had Detta
torn open with so much eagerness an
envelope directed in the well-known hand
as that which arrived a few days after this
date. The sheet was very full, although
evidently hurriedly dashed off; and, when
Detta perceived at the end of it a few lines
written in a manly hand, she knew at once
that all was well.

My darling Benedetta," the letter began,
I don't see much use in writing to you, as,
of course, you know what I am going to say.
But it is a relief to write to somebody who
cares for me and who knows him. Besides
which, as Arthur says, you deserve the first
letter for giving him your sympathy, like the

good, sweet girl that you are. But, you
funny little stupid prudent thing, fancy only
telling him to hope I Why, of course there was
no doubt about it. But you are quite right
to keep up the dignity of the sex. My dear,
I never was so much astonished in my life
as when I saw his dear old figure coming
tramping up the drive. I didn't even know
he was in England. It was all settled in five
minutes, before mama came in ; and now I
know why I never could bear any of those
Galloway or Westmacotts or people. Of
course, it was Arthur's fault all the time,
though I tried to delude myself into thinking
I had forgotten all about him. Naturally,
mama was anything but amiable at first ; but
I am old enough to know my own mind now,
and stick to it ; and not all the mothers in
Christendom should set me against Arthur.
Poor mama ! I suppose I am a disappointing
daughter ; but really, she was very nasty at
first — actually flung Sir Peter in his face —
and he, poor fellow — I mean Arthur — was
just as meek as a lamb, and said he knew it
was a dreadful match for me, and quite a
VOL. 11. 21

sacrifice, and all that sort of rubbish. So at
last I lost patience, and finding Arthur
wouldn't fight, determined / would. So I
told mama if I didn't marry Arthur I'd
marry nobody else all the days of my life ;
but that I was quite determined to marre
him, and if she wouldn't give her consent,
we'd do without it. I suppose it was very
naughty of me, and I think even Arthur
was frightened when he saw what a virago
his future wife could be. But I completely
quenched mama. And, having once given
in, she is as mild as butter, and growing
quite fond of Arthur, which, indeed, she
can't well help, as he treats her almost as
affectionately as he does me, and a great
deal more politely ! " Over this sentence was
written, in a man's hand, the single word
"Fibs." "No, it isn't," went on Eva, "it is quite
true; but we will spare you a lover's dialogue
on paper. I shall write again in a few days,
dear Detta, and tell you all our plans and
ideas. I can't think rationally of anything
with this great heavy creature hanging over
my shoulder all the time. One thing more.

however — xirtliur declares mama shall come
and live with us when we are married.
Isn't it forgiving? of him ? And though of
course, at present, mama swears that that
shall never be, yet equally of course the
thought is a great solace to her ; and I
daresay, at some future time, you will see us
all inhabiting the same cage together as
peacefully as the typical cat, mouse and
sparrow, or any other well-trained Happy
Family. But that is only in case you marry
somebody, too, presently. If 3'^ou don't do
that (' which of course she will,' Arthur says-the's
grown so conceited since his engagement,
that he thinks no girl can possibly be happy
without a man of her own to run after) — I
hope then you will always stop and take care
of mama, and keep house for her when she
grows old. You two would be so snug
together — almost as snug as Arthur and me."
Not quite " was written after this in the
Major's hand "Arthur is so determined to
write to you, that I will let him finish the
letter himself — Your loving cousin,

Eva."
21*

Then came Major Drew's addition, written
across the top of his betrothed's sheet :

Dear cousin Detta, Eva lias told you all
the news, so I have little to say, except to
add one item in my present condition of bliss,
which she has omitted to mention, and which
is the acquisition of so sweet and charming a
new cousin as yourself. I knew we should
be friend from the first moment I saw you ;
and it is delightful to think that now we shall
be relations. I am afraid Mrs. Wilding
has little chance of her housekeeper, unless,
indeed, your heart is as hard as Eva's has
been for the last six years." He had subscribed
himself-your affectionate cousin,
Aiihur Drew ; " but through this, Eva had
evidently drawn her pen, and had written in
indignant protest — " No, I will not put up
with that ! Tie line must be drawn somewhere,
and I must make a stand at once, if I
mean to be respected."

Well, Detta," said Lady Dumbarton,
observing the colour that Hushed her niece's

cheeks, and the absorbed attention with
which she perused her letter, " your correspondence
appears to interest you to-day.
Might I enquire if it is from your cousin ? "

0, aunt ! " exclaimed the girl, lifting a
face full of eager delight, "Eveleen is
engaged to Major Drew ! "

There was a moment's pause before Lady
Dumbarton replied.

Be has been very precipitate about
it," she said. " Well, I hope he has not
thrown himself away. He is a good, steady
man. I only hope she will not prove a
light and frivolous wife to him. He has Jiad
a wonderful infatuation for her all these
years."

Aunt," said Delta earnestly, " Eva is not
light or frivolous "

She has always appeared so to me,"
remarked the elder lady drily.

"But that is only," said Delta quickly,
'* because she is proud, and cannot shew herself
in her true colours to those who judge
her hardly."

Do I judge her hardly ? " enquired Lady

Dumbarton. Then, annoyed that the girl
gave her no answer, she repeated her question
in a more peremptory tone.

Thus pressed, Detta raised her candid eyes
towards her aunt.

1 do not think you understand her," she
said. '• She is naturally reserved ; and you
do not give her credit for the high principle
and deep feelings she possesses."

I must be a very obtuse and uncharitable
person," remarked Lady Dumbarton.

The colour deepened in Detta's cheeks. "I
am very sorry, aunt," she said ; " indeed I did
not mean to be rude ; but you did ask
me, you know."

Yes," said Lady Dumbarton, " I did ask
you ; and you young ladies have not much
difficulty in giving your opinion on any
subject now-a-days."

Detta was silent for a moment ; then she
turned once more towards her aunt.

You have always been so very kind tome,"
she said. " Though you are vexed with
me now, yet I always feel you judge me more
kindly than I deserve. But it is so different

with Eva ; everything she does seems wrong
in your e^^es."

"The quality of penetration appears to be
well developed in me," remarked her aunt,
in the same sarcastic tone.

Then her manner suddenly changed. " I
judge you leniently, Delia," she said,
because, although you have many faults,
yet you are by nature sincere, and have,
strange to say, notwithstanding your Italian
origin, little of that frivolity which so painfully
characterises sour cousin, and — truth
compels me also to say — her mother."

Think how she has stuck to Major Dread,
Aunt Dumbarton," observed Detta ; " and the
good matches she has refused for his sake."

"Well," said the elder lady, "now that
they are engaged, and certainly appear to
know their own minds, there remains little
more to be said upon the subject ; and I can
only hope she will make him the wife so
worthy a man deserves ; though, had he
applied to me for advice, I might possibly
not have recommended him to take the
step."

Detta fortunately was of a tolerably
prudent and reticent disposition ; otherwise
she might have found it hard at this juncture
to renounce the little triumph she might' have
gained had she informed her companion of
the part she had been called upon to play as
confidant and adviser to Major Drew not
many days ago. She held her peace therefore,
thereby allowing room for one of Miss
Sparke's faint interpolations.

A very precipitate young man," she murmured.
•' It seems almost strange that he,
such an old friend, so accustomed to rely on
her sound judgment, should not have named
the subject to Lady Dumbarton before going

down to propose to her niece " But she

was interrupted by Lady Dumbarton herself,
who, however deeply she valued, rarely
spared her faithful Sparke.

Nonsense ! *' she said. " Doss anyone
expect a young man to go asking advice
about his love affairs from an old woman ? I
couldn't have told him the only thing he
wanted to know — whether Eveleen would
have him or not."

All ! " sighed Miss Sparke, submissively.
"All's well that ends well. At least," she
added, more softly, " if it be Avell."

^' Why shouldn't it be well ? " inquired
Lady Dumbarton, turning round sharply
upon her unfortunate companion. It was all
very good for her to run down her own relations,
but a very different matter when
Sparke ventured to take that liberty. " Do
you mean to insinuate," she continued loftily
that Major Drew is not good enough for
my niece, or m}^ niece not good enough for
Major Drew?"

0, neither, my lady neither," returned
Miss Sparke anxiously.

Then I am to presume you meant
nothing ? " pursued her merciless ladyship.
That is not unfrequently the case with you,
Sparke, so I have the less difficulty in believing
you."

Your ladyship must excuse me," replied
Miss Sparke, goaded to desperation by this
last insult. " I had a meaning. One which
perhaps I had better have kept to myself, but
which, nevertheless, I have every reason to

believe is shared by your lacl^^sliip. In every
respect Miss Wilding is a most charming
young lady, beautiful and accomplished and
amiable. But, as to whether she will prove
a spiritual helpmeet to her future husband —
that is a point upon which perhaps your ladyship
may agree with me."

Whether I agree or not," remarked Lady
Dumbarton, " is of little moment. I don't
discuss my relations with anybody." Which
was a most obvious and unadulterated falsehood
; but served the purpose of closing the
conversation.

^€^e^<>O^J

CHAPTER V.

MISS Spare IS JEALOUS.

FRESH incident now occurred to break
j\^ the routine of Benedetta's daily life ;
and, for a time, in its pressing realities, to
overshadow even the interest of Eveleen's
engagement. This was nothing less than the
serious illness of Lady Dumbarton, who,
almost before she had time to write her somewhat
coldly-worded letter of congratulation
to her niece, was seized with another attack
of rheumatic gout, far more painful and
dangerous than the last. For some weeks she
was confined to her bed, suffering greatly most
uf the time ; and during these weeks, Bene-delta
devoted herself to her aunt, proving
herself, notwithstanding her youth, a skilful
as well as a tender nurse. Miss Sparke, who
had not much of a constitution, was soon

knocked up ; but, when the doctor suggested
a trained nurse, Benedetta pleaded so earnestly
to take lier place, and Lady Dumbarton
herself shewed so decided a repugnance to the
idea of strange ministrations, that it was
arranged that Detta and the companion, with
occasional assistance, should between them
share the sick-room duties.

The attachment between Benedetta and her
aunt ripened quickly in those days. Lady
Dumbarton's religion was no sham. She was
a hard, narrow-minded, uncharitable woman,
but she judged others as she would have
judged herself ; and, although possessing but
little of the milk of human kindness, had
through life striven to do her duty according
to her own views. She was one of those
people who complain much over a small
annoyance ; but meet heavy trials with
fortitude, one who would make the lives of
others burdensome on account of a draught
at the back of her neck, but who, in the
agonies of rheumatic gout, would bear her
pain without flinching. In fact, one of those
persons not rarely to be met with, who think

that the worries of life come from man, and
its greater troubles only from the Deity.
Every clays Detta became more and Miss
Sparke less constant in the sick room. It was
not only that Detta was stronger, and, notwithstanding
her youth, more fitted for hardwork
; but she was also one of those people
endowed with a natural aptitude for nursing.
Her step was quiet without being stealthy,
her shoes never creaked, and were-devoid
of heels to beat a tattoo on the floor ; her
movements were gentle, not jerky like Miss
Sparke's, her voice soft and harmonious, and
her manner free from the querulous air
which so often invaded that of the companion.
She had a good memory for remembering the
doctor's instructions, and was thoughtful and
prompt in carrying them out ; but she never
irritated the invalid by unnecessary opposition
to her will or contradiction of her
fancies. There was something soothing about
the very sight of the girl's sweet, serious face,
the sound of her calm voice, or the touch of her
cool hand, as, with few words but with tender
assiduity, she ministered to her aunt ; and

when Miss Sparke, with her. shrill accent, her
quick movements and sharp manner, look
her place beside the bed, the contrast was
sufficiently unpleasing to Lady Dumbarton.
She had never been accustomed to check the
expression of her sentiments through fear of
hurting the feelings of those around her, and
was not likely to begin now in a time of ill-health.


Hence it came to pass that, on more than one
occasion. Miss Sparke was unceremoniously
banished from the room and desired to send
Detta in her stead. "You put me into a
fever, Sparke," Lady Dumbarton would say ;
everything you have about you jingles. And
I would much rather you would speak out
loud than hiss in that dreadful whisper which
goes through my head." Under these circumstances,
it was perhaps not to be wondered at
that Miss Sparke grew daily less well-disposed
towards the visitor. It was not her fault
that she jingled, that her movements were
nervous, and her whisper like the war-cry of
the goose ; and it was hard that on account
of thes little failings, and after years of

patient service to a somewhat severe task-mistress,
she should be ousted with so much
contumely to make way for a little chit of a
girl — one who, by reason of her soft brown
eyes and caressing manner, was worming
herself into her aunt's confidence, and undermining
herself in that lady's favour. This
was how Miss Sparke represented matters to
herself, and she was not long in making Detta
feel her ire. A life of dependence, and an
accommodating, worlds-wise disposition had
long ago taught Miss Sparke the necessity of
self-control and the habit of bearing" insult in
silence, where such silence was a part of self-interest
; but, on the present occasion, she
felt no such obligation to restrain her feelings.
Benedetta Campbell was a young person of
no importance or position ; she lived, like
herself, upon the bounty of others, having,
report said, but a mere pittance of her own.
At present she was in prosperity, being young,
pretty and attractive, and favoured by circumstances,
and the good nature of her relatives
but she Alas in reality little better than herself
in social position, and when she came to be

Miss Sparke's age (whatever that dubious
figure might be) might very likely be holding
some situation akin to her own and working
for her daily bread. Lady Dumbarton was
safe upstairs out of hearing, and Detta was
not the girl, Miss Sparke felt instinctively —
acting upon the instinct with characteristic
lack of generosity — to detail grievances of the
sort to her aunt.

She therefore permitted her spite to have
full run, all the more freely since the Anglo-italian
girl, attributing her waspish manner
first to a temporary fit of indigestion, and
then to a temporary fit of ill-temper, for sometime
preferred to take no notice.

But the full storm burst one day when
Benedetta, feeling she had swallowed with
patience as much impertinence as even Christian
charity required of her, turned towards
the companion, and demanded, without preamble,
to know why and wherefore was she so
uncivil.

Uncivil indeed ! " snorted Miss Sparke.
That is a pretty word to use, is it not ? "

"It is the right word," replied Detta.

Have I offended you in any way, Miss
Sparke ? "

Offended me, indeed ! " retorted the other.
That would be quite impossible ! "

In that case, do sou mean to keep it
up?" enquired Detta impatiently. "I can
only imagine you wish to drive me, by your
rudeness, from the house ; and that, I warn
you, you will not do, so long as my aunt
wants me."

I believe you," replied Miss Sparke. " I
am sure you have not the least intention of
leaving this house in a hurry."

"What can you mean?" asked the girl,
turning an innocently amazed face towards
her.

Oh, / mean what I say ! " exclaimed
Miss Sparke, beside herself with anger and
jealousy, and the delight of for once giving
a loose rein to her feelings. " I am aware
that this house is a comfortable one, and
that a wealthy, childless old lady is nota
bad friend to make. It is easy enough,
no doubt, to cut out a plain, unattractive
person, who has no foreign arts and
VOL. II. 22

graces, and only knows how to do lier duty
unobtrusively."

For a moment the lisflit in Detta's seat
dark eyes burst up like a flame, and Miss
Sparke felt that she had bought her sweet
revenge dangerously ; then it faded, and with
cheeks a little paler than usual, but an accent
of quiet scorn that the companion felt more
cutting than any of the cold or sarcastic tones
to which Lady Dumbarton had accustomed
her, she answered her .

Thank you," she said, " for replying to my
question so clearly. So you thought, poor
Miss Sparke, that I was coming here to turn
you out of sour place, and to sponge upon
my ' wealthy, childless ' aunt ? But I have
no wish to rob you of any of your privileges,
now that you have stated them so plainly, nor
have T any intention of taking up my abode
here permanently."

And, before Miss Sparke could retort,
Benedetta had gone from the room, leaving
her companion in a terrified condition of
doubt as to whether she would repeat any,
and if so, how much, of the conversation to

the invalid. There was a marked difference in
her manner when next they met —an extreme
and half deprecating politeness — of which
Benedetta, in her proud young scorn, took not
the smallest notice. Miss Sparke, however,
need not have feared ; and, in point of fact,
Lady Dumbarton never knew the useful light
in which her companion regarded her as a
wealthy, childless old lady ; nor indeed was
she ever made aware of any passage of arms
having at this time occurred between the
two.

And so the days passed on, and the welles
grew one into another ; and, while the spring-sun
shone brighter and brighter, Benedetta kept
her long watches in the close room upstairs.
She began to grow pale and weary, for she
was by nature active and a lover of the open
air. And one day, the doctor who was
attending Lady Dumbarton, and who had
been struck by the girl's patient devotion,
turned towards her suddenly. " You must
go out more," he said peremptorily ; " everyday
for an hour. We shall have you ill
next."

22*

As soon as he lead left, Lady Dumbarton
looked at lier niece kindly. She was getting
better now, though still unable to leave her
bed.

You must go out every day," she said
repeating the doctor's words. " I have been
selfish in keeping ^^ou in so long, Benedetta.
I have forgotten you in my own illness. You
do look white, child."

I have only grown white for want of the
sun," said Detta. " I am quite well. But I
will walk out now that you are mending."

You have been very good to me, child,"
said the elder woman, still looking thoughtfully
at her. " You could not have nursed
me more tenderly had you been my own
child." And Detta was surprised and touched
to see the strong, hard-featured face working
with suppressed emotion. She laid her little
cool hand on that of the invalid, and
stroked it gently. "It is nothing to thank
me for, auntie," she said simply. " 1 would
have done it for anyone I was with ; and it
is a pleasure to do it for somebody one
cares for."

Lady Dumbarton did not reply for a
moment. She began clasping and unclasping
her long white fingers, and was struggling
with the tears that filled her eyes. Few
living people had seen tears in those keen
grey eyes ; \mt illness weakens us all, and
Lady Dumbarton's self-control was not what
it had been.

'' Detta," she said suddenly, " did you ever
hear of m}^ little girl ? "

"No," replied her niece. ^'I never even
knew you had had a child."

I had her seven years — and then she was
taken from me," said the sick woman, in a low
voice unlike her own. "It is more than
thirty years ago now since she died. My
little Lucia ! Sometimes I think you remind
me of her, Benedetta. You have the same
dark, serious eyes. But, do not ask me
questions of her. I never talk of it. I
have not said as much as this about the
past for years."

And Detta knew better than to ignore
that request, or break in upon her companion's
sad retrospect by any curious

words. But the sympathy that filled her
eyes was full and deep ; and those few sentences
had, to the consciousness of both,
greatly increased the previous bond of union
between them

.(2 ^A^evv g.

Serious LOSSES.

Evelyn's letters were, during these days,
an unfailing source of interest to her
cousin. As spring ripened into early summer,
the plans of the bride-elect began to be fully
matured, and her wedding was fixed for an
early date.

You see," wrote Eva, " Arthur is such a
desperate old fidget. I believe he thinks, if
he leaves me one minute, some one will come
in through the window or the key-hole and
snap me up ; though really, as I tell him, considering
the six years when I managed to
tai^a care of myself and my affairs during his
absence, I need not be considered such a very
]perishable commodity. But then, on the
her hand, as we are both such old fogies —
quite in the sere and withered leaf — it would

be iinbecomino- to ape the coyness of sweet
seventeen. So I told him I made no objection
to anything not under a three months' engagement.
That is the limit 1 consider due to my
own self-respect. But there — give a man an
inch and he takes an ell ! I had no sooner
]pronounced my hat than I found he had persuaded
mama into fixing a day quite a week
under the three months, and when I reproached
him on the score of the word of
honour of a gentleman and a soldier, he
entrenches himself behind the Jesuitical defence
that the time fixed was three full lunar
months off!"

Beresford Conway's name too was not without
constant and honourable mention in Eva's
correspondence. Her cousin's kindness and
congratulations had known no bounds, and
Arthur appeared to be as fond of him as she
was. Very often Eva in her remarks coupled
his name with her own. " Beresford and I
think you must find it very dull at Steynton,"
or, " Beresford and I want to know when you
are coming back to this part of the world ? "
Now that her aunt was setting better, and

that her duties in the sick-room became less
onerous, Detta had a good deal of time for
private reflection, and as Eveleen's letters
were almost the only break in the calm
monotony of her life, she naturally dwelt
more upon them and their contents than she
would otherwise have done. She fancied that
Eva and her prospects only was the subject
which filled her mind ; but it must be confessed
that Mr. Conway also came in for a
share of her meditations. There must be a
great deal of good in him, she told herself,
for a man like Major Drew to entertain for
him so sincere a friendship. Yet she knew
that before. Major Drew's regard was not
necessary to inform her of the fact that
Beresford Conway had stronger stuff in him
than appeared upon the surface. She had
seen proofs of his generosity, his kindliness,
and the general hatred of humbug and insincerity
which pervaded his character. What
a pity he should encourage in himself the outward
simulation of a shallow and affected man
of fashion. Well, after all, it mattered little
to her what was his outward simulation. Yet

sometimes — notwithstanding lier contentment
at Steynton, notwithstanding the ripening
affection between herself and her aunt, and
the unfailing enjoyment of the daily walks
with Yarrow — a feeling would cross her mind
that, after all, it was a little lonely here, and
that they must be a very sociable party at
Ashley Manor. Eveleen described the home
circle as having already almost realised her
prognostication of the Happy Family, only
with the addition of her cousin Beresford,
dio seemed, on one excuse or another, to be
always running down from town for a visit
of a few days or a few hours to his cousins.

Mama is growling so absurdly devoted to
Arthur," wrote Eva, " and he to her, that I
shall begin to be jealous soon. They are constantly
caballing together behind my back,
and settling matters without asking my
opinion ; and if I want any little favour from
mama now, I have to send Arthur as my
ambassador, and it gets done on the spot. If
this goes on much further, I have told Arthur
that I shall get up a rival flirtation with
Beresford."

Then one days came a remark of a dire rent
nature.

Beresford says he shan't come down here
any more now until I am married," wrote Eva.
Can you guess why ? He says it is really
too trying to see two people always making
love to each other, and to feel himself left out
in the cold ! Poor old boy ! I should never
have given him credit for so much sentiment,
should you, m}^ sapient Detta ? I have been
asking him, if that is the case, why on
earth he does not get engaged himself — •
though, as I told him, if he ever proposed
to any girl who did not meet with my appix)-
val, there would be a jolly row I He said he
would think the matter over. But I couldn't
get much satisfaction out of him. And indeed,
I hardly know anybody good enough for
him."

The word " hardly " had been strongly
undermined ; Detta could not help wondering
with how much purpose. Also, liovf far
her sharp-witted cousin suspected the true
state of affairs. But, very possibly, even now
the complexion of those affairs wis changing.

Mr. Conway was not a man who, if lie once
made up his mind to become a Benedict, need
have long to wait or far to seek in the choice
of a willing and suitable bride.

Mixing constantly, as he did, in the best
and most agreeable society, the number of
eligible young ladies to whom it was open to
him, with every prospect of success, to pay his
addresses, must be large indeed. Under such
circumstances, it was not very likely that he
would long trouble himself with the remembrance
of an unimportant little relative of his
cousin's — a girl without position, birth, or
special talents — whose half-foreign ways and
appearance had for a moment taken his fancy.
So much the better, said Detta to herself,
somewhat proudly and yet sadly, as she stroked
Yarrow's head, and looked out upon the blue
and purple lines that streaked the windy sea.
It was nothing to her ; she had refused him
because she did not love him. A man of the
world, a kindly but narrow-minded Englishman,
who could feel himself thoroughly at
home nowhere save on the well polished pavements
of Bond Street or Piccadilly — he was

not the man to suit a lialf-Boliemian nature
like lier own — a nature wliicli had been well
drilled into English wa3^s and accomplishments
and the English power of self-control,
but wliicli still at times acknowledged a vague,
reprehensible yearning towards the old untrammelled
life of her childhood. She could
never, she thought, be content to lead the
town or country life of a fine lady, with
liveried servants always at her elbow, a carriage
invariably at hand to rob her of every
free wandering, and an incessant round, day
and night, of a monotonously-moulded societe.
The very thought of such things made her
shudder. She was evidently intended for
some far less lofty and highly-polished existence,
for a life of freedom, of work, of many
interests — to be the wife perhaps of some poor
and striving' man, the vicissitudes of whose
lot she could share with enthusiasm, whose
efforts she could cheer and encourage, and
whose ambition she could foster. And then, it
flashed across her mind that such an one was
Ino Bartolucci — just such a career would be
that of his wife.

Why had she felt from the first — notwithstanding
her affection for him — how utterly
impossible it was that she should ever take
up such a position beside him ? She must be
hard-hearted, hard to please.

And with Eva's letter lying in her lap, Detta
sat in her favourite spot on the little sandy
eminence, letting her thoughts dwell for a few
moments with mournful dissatisfaction upon
her own ' contrary ' disposition. It was quite
true what Miss Sparke had implied ; she was
absolutely without any home save that offered
to her through the kindness of her relations.

Eveleen was goingjto be married ; Mrs.
Wilding, notwithstanding her daughter's comfortable
arrangements for.] a tete-astute housekeeping
between Detta ^ and herself, would
probably take up her abode with them after
their marriage. At Steynton Court, indeed,
she knew that she was more than welcome —
that she was of real use and comfort to its
mistress, and that a home would always be
open to her. But-even supposing that she
could sufficiently conquer her pride to accept
for good the bread of charity, it must probably

be at the cost of either an unceasing
warfare with Miss Sparke, or of the expulsion
of that kdy from the Court — a proceeding
which the girl felt, with perhaps over-scrupulosity,
would be a somewhat cruel requital of
the companion's eleven years of faithful service.
Little too as lie might acknowledge it
to herself, and much as she loved the country,
the prospect of remaining year after year without
change and without movement — for Lady
Dumbarton was no lover of travelling — in this
same lonely spot on the bleak northern coast,
with the unbroken companionship of an
elderly invalid, stern and silent, joined perhaps
to that of a narrow-minded unamiable
old maid, gave her a not unnatural
chill of prospective loneliness.

From these reflections she had to arouse
herself with an effort ; and, crushing the letter
into her pocket, to start off with the willing
Yarrow for some distant scramble, where the
invigorating sight of great over-hanging
cliffs, and the tonic of the rushing waves,
soon swept away all melancholy cobwebs from
her brain.

Eveleen's marriage was now at liaiicl. June
lead already opened, and, in little more than
a week, Detta was to proceed southwards
for the important event. Her bridesmaid's
dress had long ago been ordered by Mrs.
Wilding, and her modest wedding gift was
to accompany her.

Lady Dumbarton, although almost more
than convalescent, had decided that her
strength was not equal to the journey ; a
resolution which it is to be feared was
hailed with undisguised satisfaction by her
unappreciative relatives at the Manor.

As the day approached, it was but natural
that Detta's mind should be somewhat preoccupied
with the visit before her. She was to
remain only a fortnight, arriving a week before
the wedding and stopping on a week after it, in
order to act as consoler, or, as Eva unfeelingly
called it, bottle-holder for Mrs. Wilding's
maternal tears — Lady Dumbarton declaring,
with unusual partiality, that she was at
present quite unable to spare the girl for a
longer period. Perhaps it was the exceeding
quiet and monotony of her daily life at

Steyntoii that made Detta look forward
with such unusual interest to the cleanse
before her; or possibly it was, as she told
herself, on account of the strong affection
she bore her cousin, and the consequent
interest which she took in all that concerned
her happiness. Be that it as may, she
acknowledged inwardly to a quite unwonted
eagerness about the matter. The realization,
however, of the incidents she had pictured
to herself — of Eveleen in her bridal dress
standing beside her promised husband —
of her cousin's last good-bye — and of many
another little domestic scene — the same th!it
are played with little variety in the serious
of every happy marriage more or
less — was never to be hers. The drama
would come off, the little act would be
played, and the bonds of wedlock would
unite Eveleen Wilding to her faithful and
devoted lover ; but Detta was to be no
witness of the fact. Just at this time, only
a fortnight before the day fixed for the
wedding, a heavy and unexpected blow fell
upon Mrs. Wilding and her daughter.
VOL. ir. 23

Benedetta on readings the letter wliicli contained
the news could not repress a cry of
dismay and astonishment ; and even Lady
Dumbarton's face otcw serious as her niece
read aloud to her the two closely written
sheets. And yet, considering the circumstances,
Eveleen's letter was far from being
a melancholy or desponding one.

My dearest Detta," she wrote, " I really
don't know how to tell you what has happened
to us all. I had better put the bald fact before
you briefly and at once — we are ruined 1
(JST.B. — I don't mean you ; I am thankful to say
your little scrap of money is in other hands,
and so all right, and hasn't shared the fate
of ours). But mama's is all gone ; that is to
say all except a little paltry two hundred or
so a year, which, fortunately for her, was
safely locked up in those dear old uninteresting
Three per Cents. Absolutely all the rest
has been swindled away by that wretched
man Becket, who has been mama's man of
business for the last few years, and who, it
seems, has been speculating right and left

with, all his clients' moneys, and is a regular
thief ! The most aggravating part of the
affair is that he has got off safe to America
or somewhere. As soon as he found that
there was going to be a crash, and that he
couldn't hide his evil deeds any longer, ho
bolted, carrying with him from the bank
what cash he could still lay hands upon.
Everybody, bankers and all, are paralysed
with astonishment and horror, for no unsuspected
him to be capable of such a
thing. He has always borne a very good
character, and must have been an arch
hypocrite. Of course they have got * a
warrant out against him, and are doing all
(hey can to catch him ; but it doesn't
matter much to us whether they do or not,
as they say he is all but bankrupt, and so
we shall never get a farthing of our poor
possessions back again. But I haven't told
you what is really the worst part of the
whole business. He had the entire management
of Beresford Conway's affairs, and ho
lias mulcted him of nearly every penny he
possesses. You know how Beresford hates

23*

business matters. He had simply placed
everything unreservedly in this man's hands,
having every confidence in him ; and, with
the exception of the London property,
which I believe is too poor to be worth much,
there is not a thing of any sort or kind
which has not been gamed away from him.
I don't know what the poor fellow will do,
for he has been accustomed all his life long
to live in luxury and extravagance, and it
is so much harder for a man than a
woman to pull up and economise. The
only prospect I can see for him is to go
in at at once for an heiress ; but I am
afraid he is too proud and obstinate to do
that. Of course his father, Lord Courthope,
will do something for him, but I am afraid
not much, as he is a very stingy man ; and
also Beresford has more than half quarrelled
with him since his second foolish marriage.
But Beresford does not seem to think a bit
about himself or his own affairs at present.
He is quite overcome by our loss, and takes
the whole blame to himself, just because Mr.
Becket was his man of business and he recommended

him to mama. His one idea seems to
Le how to get a restitution of any of her
losses. He is here now, and he and Arthur
are doing their best to console poor mother,
who is nearly out of her mind. As for me, I
am afraid I'm very heartless ; but the fact of
the matter is T do not feel nearly as heartbroken
about it as I suppose T ought to do.
It does seem to me, when once I am married
to Arthur, of comparatively very little
importance whether I have to keep house
on six or nine hundred a year, whether I
can afford to give dinner-parties or not,
and whether I walk or drive in my carriage
to return my neighbour's calls. It is quite
worth while to me to have lost the money,
only to prove what a double-dyed old brick
Arthur can come out. He literally doesn't
care one straw whether I've a thousand
pounds a year or a thousand farthings ; in
fact, he says, as far as it concerns himself, he
would rather prefer me with the thousand
farthings, as a wife with money is always
a responsibility, and he considers that he
has enough to keep us both decently The

only tiling that a^ri'Tayates him — and no
wonder, poor fellow ! is that mama insists
that the wedding inst be put off; and she
is in so distracted a condition that nobody
dare argue with her ; though, as Arthur
\Qvj truly says, the fact of her having lost
her income makes a speedy marriage all the
more sensible. However, he has had to give
in ; but only for a fortnight's delays He will
not consent to a day longer ; and even this
concession has made him more nearly cross
than I ever saw my lord-elect before. I have
got them all on my hands to-day — Beresford
low in his self-reproaching, mama in
alternate fits of tears and irritability, and
Arthur grumbling over the uselessness of
the deferred day. I feel like the old woman
that lived in a shoe ; and I know they one
and all look upon me as an unfeeling brute
with no heart and less sjunpathy. But 1 am
Ideally dreadfully sorry for poor mama, as I
know you will be, Detta dear. It must be
awfully hard at her age to be suddenly
swindled out of four fifths of your income
All the same, I hope the time will come,

in a few years, when lie will feel that it
has made little real difFerence to lier happiness
; perhaps, indeed, given her more of
real happiness, since now I think she will
be obliged to come and live with her
children. I am afraid it may make a
difference to you in some ways, dear Detta ;
but one's head feels too confused at present
to grasp all the details and consequences of
the whole affair. I will write again as soon
as I can, for I know, how anxious you will
be to hear everything. Remember, however,
that I expect sou for my wedding day — probably
the fifth of July. The wedding will
be quieter than we had intended, but sou
must be there, whatever happens — you and
Beresford — my two dear old cousins." Then,
quite as an after-thought, came the postcript :
I hope Aunt Dumbarton is better ? Tell her
mama is really too upset to write to her or to
anyone at present, but no doubt will do so ina
few days.

Neb. How can you manage to get on with
the old Griffin in the comfortable Away you
seem to do ? "

It was exceedingly unkind and thoughtless
of Eveleen, her cousin felt, to add this unflattering
postcript to her letter. Without it,
Detta could at once have passed the sheet
over entire to her aunt, a proceeding which
would have driven her satisfaction, as beings an
opportunity of convincing Lady Dumbarton
of that sweet and kindly disposition, so free
from taint of worldliness, which had often
been a subject of dispute between the two.
Nevertheless, the elder woman did not contradict
her, when, with glowing eyes,
Benedetta raised her face from the perusal
aloud of her letter. " Oh, aunt ! " she
exclaimed, " \Yill you not say now that
Eva is one who cares nothing for money
or position in comparison with the affection
of those she loves ? "

I will admit, my dear," said Lady Dumbarton,
" that your cousin is in love. Well,
Arthur Drew will have a penniless wife ; but,
I suppose, after waiting for her six years, that
seems a trifle. Poor Fanny! " she added with
genuine pity, not unflavoured by a little
touch of sarcasm, " site has no romance to

carry her over her loss. At her age it is
always a trial to have a reduced income ;
and to such a complete woman of the
world as my sister, it is, I fear, a trial
without mitigations.

As for that fine gentleman," she continued,
referring doubtless to Mr. Conway, " it will bea
new sensation for him not to know whereto
turn for a sixpence, and possibly a not un-salutary
lesson for a young man who appears
to think the world and all that it contains
made for his sole use and benefit. If he had
to work for his living it would do him a great
deal of good, morally and physically. But he
will probably live instead upon his relations,
and suffer little from the culpable carelessness
which has ruined his cousins."

Unjust as Detta felt this speech to be, something
nevertheless seemed to seal her lips from
taking up the defence of the absent ; and
Lady Dumbarton's strictures passed unchallenged.


As was natural, however, the subject of
Mrs. Wilding's losses formed the staple topic
of conversation between the two for the next

few (lays, and was rarely for many minutes at
at a time out of Detta's mind. Eveleen was
rio^ht in saving she herself was not much to be
pitied. What was a trifling loss of fortune to
a girl in her situation, about to be married to
a man whose means, though slender, were yet
sufficient — a man who adored her and to whom
she was herself devoted heart and soul ? To
her the event mii^lit well seem one of minor
importance, affecting her mother far more
than herself.

She was in that happy condition of mind
which comes perhaps once in the lives of the
most unromantic or even sordid — a condition
when heaven and earth, prosperity and adversity,
joy and misery, are all centred in one
human being, whose very existence is sufficient
to ward off outside care, and whose affectionis
absolutely the one thing needful to ensure
a continued supply of undimmed sunshine.

But it was very different with the others.
Proud and worldly Mrs. Wilding certainly was,
Detta could not gainsay the fact, notwithstanding
the affectionate kindness that had
been shown herself by her aunt. The blow

would be a cx\-A org to her. And how about
Mr. Conway ? W^ouLI he, as Lady Dumbarton
had prophesied, hang about, subsisting on the
charity of friends or relatives, frequenting the
same prices where he had been accustomed to
take the position of a man of wealth and importance?
Or would his father possibly find
him some sinecure post, which would provide
him with the wherewithal to carry on his accustomed
existence in fashionable society ?
Considering' how short a time she had known
him, it seemed strange how assured she felt
that this was not the style of life to suit Mr.
Conway under present circumstances ; and the
equal assurance with which she dismissed from
her mind the possibility of his following his
cousin's proffered advice to look up an heiress
at once.

The incident must, Lett felt, allect ner < wn
future. It appeared to her now clear that
there was no possibility of her again talking
up her permanent abode with her Aunt Wilding
; and more and more the i lea forced
itself upon her that it would be better, more
reasonable, more right, that she should, after

a time, leave the shelter of the roof under
which she now lived, and go forth to seek her
own living. Something in the girl's nature
revolted against being a dependent even in the
houses of near relations.

I will go to the Maestro," she thought,
that is surely my real home. It may be
that I should get occupation in Eome ; and at
any rate I could be useful in keeping house
for him and nursing him now that he is so
feeble. I will write and ask him. I know
that he will tell me the truth."

Day by day, as she wandered over the
breezy common, or sat with Yarrow on the
belt of shingle watch? the little blue summer
waves leap along the golden sands, these
thoughts pressed upon her more strongly,
until they grew into a determination which
she resolved should be broken to Lady Dumbarton
on her return from her cousin's wedding.


She would not speak of it as yet — Lady
Dumbarton was still somewhat of an invalid —
her presence was still, she knew, a comfort,
and the proposition might be one not only to

annoy but to anger her. Probably also, other
but half acknowledged feelings combined to
strengthen Detta's decision to take no irremediable
steps as to the arrangement of her
own future before she had once more seen
and consulted with her relatives at Ashley
Manor.

Delta IX DISGRACE.

ONE morning — the very morning before the
(lay on which Detta was to start for her
cousin's wedding — a foreign letter was placed
before her breakfast-plate. Lady Dumbarton
was not set down, but Miss Sparke's lynx-like
eyes devoured the thin blue paper and
delicate handwriting with a greedy suspicion.
The address was certainly peculiar to English
eyes unused to foreign terms, such as were
Miss Sparke's ; for it was worded : " A la
stimatissima Miss Campbell, Ashley Manor,"
from whence it had been forwarded to its
present destination. Benedetta tore the letter
open with an eagerness which did not escape
her companion's observation. It was a longtime,
it seemed to her, since she had heard
from Ino. Once indeed, only, had the young

man written since this return to Italy ; and
then the epistle had been somewhat brief and
unsatisfactory, merely giving an account of
the Maestro's well-beino\ and forwarding to
her his kindly messages, but abounding in
none of those friendly touches or descriptive
flights which in former days had been so
characteristic a part of Ino's correspondence.
This one too was short, and seemed hurriedly
written ; and Miss Sparke noticed that as the
girl read it, she caught her breath with a half-uttered
exclamation of grief, and that her
eyes filled with tears.

'• 1 am afraid," said the companion, prompted
it is to be feared more by curiosity than
sympathy, " that you have some bad news
this morning. Miss Campbell ? "

Yes," replied Detta ; " the Maestro, my old
friend at Eome, is very ill."

She seemed anxious to avoid Miss Sparke 's
flood of inquiries, and made her escape as
soon as possible from a half-eaten breakfast,
hurrying upstairs to her aunt's room. Lady
Dumbarton was sitting up in bed, her breakfast
before her, and, notwithstanding Bene-lett's

extort to control lier emotion, at once
perceived that something was wrong.

What is it ? " she exclaimed. " Kwj new
misfortune happened to Fanny or her
daughter ? "

'' No, aunt," said Detta, seating herself beside
her quietly as usual ; " but I want to talk to
you. The Maestro is very ill. He is dying."
And as she spoke her self-command gave way,
and the tears fell quickly down her cheeks.

Oh, is that all ? " asked her aunt, sinking
back again upon i er cushion. " Onl}'^ one of
those Italian people. Your face quite
frightened me, Detta ; I thought there was
something really wrong."

The great dark eyes flashed with sudden
anger, and the tears stopped in their course, as
Detta half rose up with a passionate gesture.

Only the Maestro ! " she exclaimed in a
voice, which though not loud, vibrated with
emotion; " who could there be more than the
Maestro ? why do you all speak of him as if he
CO aid be nothing to me ? "

"I do not question your affection for him,"
replied the other coldly. " I have no doubt

you value him far more than your father's
relations, notwithstanding all they have done
for you in the past six years."

And why should I not love him better
than anyone else ? " said Detta, stung by the
sarcastic tone.

Why not ? " repeated Lady Dumbarton.
"Probably gratitude is not a distinguishing
trait in your character."

Detta's face flushed deeply, and for a moment
she was silent.

I am grateful, very grateful," she said at
length in a low, pained voice. " You have
been very, very good to me — both you and
Aunt Fanny, and I love you both — and most
of all for the reason why you have been so
good to me. I know what that was. It is
because you loved my poor dead father, and
so were determined to be kind and generous
to his child. But the Maestro was my father's
dearest friend ; it was he who nursed him —
he died in his arms. And when my father
died he gave me into his charge — oh ! surely
you know it all — and he, the Signor Cortauld,
brought me up and cared for me as if I had
VOL. II. 24

beau his own daughter. And all for love of
mj father, your brother. Surely 3'ou, who
thought so much of my father, must also care
a little for this man who did everything for
him? And should I not be bad, and ungrateful,
and unworthy if I could forget him,
just because I was in another country and had
found other kind friends ? "

Detta's short-lived anger had completely
departed. But the pleading, tear-filled eyes
with which she now gazed up into Lady Dumbarton's
face had little power to move her
aunt. Lady Dumbarton was one of those
persons on whom the display of emotional
distress (or what she would have termed a
scene) had, constitutionally, a hardening
rather than a softening effect. It was not
that she was by any means devoid of feeling,
although perhaps not over dowered in this
respect ; but, being herself of a self-contained
and reticent nature, the sight of openly expressed
emotion in others was repugnant to
her, as seeming but half real and wholly
unnecessary. She now drew her hand a little
away, out of the reach of Detta's caressing

touch, and removed lier gaze from the girl's
eyes.

No one that I am aware of," she remarked,
*' has any objection to your feeling gratitude,
or, if you like, affection, towards this Mr. Cor-auld.
If I object to anything, it is only what
seems to me an overdrawn exhibition of
feeling on account of a person whom you have
not seen since you were a mere child, and
who is not connected with you by any blood
relationship."

Detta gave one more appealing glance in
her direction, then silenced the retort which
rose to her lips, asking merely —

Shall I read you his letter, aunt ? "

He can't be so very ill if he writes to you
himself," remarked Lady Dumbarton.

It is not from him, aunt — he cannot see
or move — it is from Iii Bartolucci — the one
who was in London a few weeks ago."

0, the young sculptor ! What has he
got to do with it ? And, pray why must you
speak of him so familiarly by that ridiculous
name ? "

He has never been anything but Ino to

24*

me," replied the girl, meekly " We were
children together. You forget, aunt ; my
mother was of the middle class herself."

I am not likely to forget it," said Lady
Dumbarton, with acidity ; " though I am not
as proud of the fact as you appear to be."

"And now," continued Detta, without replying
to this taunt, " he is with the Maestro,
nursing him-until I come. But he cannot
stop long ; he must return to Florence."

Until you go to him ? " re-echoed her
aunt, ignoring the later part of her sentence.
" Is the girl out of her mind — and
the young man, too ? How on earth do
you expect to go to him ? It is absolutely
impossible."

'' Aunt," said Detta, quietly, " I must go ;
he wishes for me."

It is impossible," repeated Lady Dumbarton,
with anger ; " absolutely impossible.
You must be quite mad to dream of such a
thing. How can you go rushing over the
continent by yourself? And who is to go
with you ? I am quite sure that neither
your Aunt Fanny nor myself will provide

you with funds for such an absurd and unreasonable
project."

"• I can take care of myself," said the girl,
proudly. " And as for funds," she added,
her face flushing, " I will not beg from anybody'.
I have enough of my own to jJ^y for
my journey."

It would take the whole of your half-year's
allowance," said her aunt; "for I'm
sure I will not help 3^0 u. You are an idiot,
Detta. Life is not made up of sentiment."

But," said Detta, her eyes again filling,
the best part of it is made up of love."

Then, as Lady Dumbarton replied merely
by an unsympathetic snort, she opened her
letter, translating' it into English as she went
on —

The beloved Maestro is verj^ ill. I write
at once to tell sou ; for he is dying, I
fear, and it may be that he has not many
weeks or even days to live. Two days ago
he had a heavy stroke of paralysis, and he is
so feeble that the doctor hardly thinks his
life can be long spared. I came from

Florence when I heard of it ; but alas ! I
cannot stay long. I should lose my commission
were I not to return in the course
of a few days ; and yet I cannot bear to
leave him, my old friend and your once
father, to the care of strangers and servants.
He is still conscious — can even speak a little,
and suffers, I hope, but little pain. He spoke
to me this morning of 3'ou. ' Give her my
love,' he said, ' my Piccola ; tell her, if I
die, that I have never forgotten her nor
ceased to love her, and that I pray God that
her life and character may be worthy of the
noble father who was so dear to me.' ' Shall
I not write and ask her to come to you ? I
said ; ' she loves you very much — she would
be glad.' And a smile, like that on one
of the faces of Eatable's angels, came over
his face. ' Ah, Dio ! ' he said, ' it would be
sv^eet to hear her youno^ voice ao^ain. But
better not to ask. Her English relations
have been good to her. They would not,
perhaps, approve, and she must not quarrel
with them.' Nevertheless, dear signorina, I
have written to let sou know what he said.

It is right that you yourself shoukl decide ;
for I know how your tender heart will yearn
to brings one last comfort to the old man who
watched over your childhood, and who
tended your father on his death-bed."

Several times during' the reading of Vino's
touching words Detta's voice had nearly
broken down ; but she struggled on with her
task, feeling that, if anything would move
Lady Dumbarton's sternly rooted opinions,
it would be the hearing of this simply,
tenderly expressed letter. There was a
silence of sever ['I moments after she Tied
finished ; but on glancing upwards, Bene-delta
saw that her aunt's countenance
retained its former hard expression.

It is a well-meant letter, no doubt," she
remarked at length ; " though certainly the
young man is going out of his province in
attempting to influence your course of action
a proceeding which should be left to the
relations and natural advisers of a 3''oung
girl. It is, no doubt, sad that you should be
unable to see this old man aa'ain, if he wishes

it; but that is absolutely precluded by the
distance between yon, and lie knows it ; and,
as yon see, lie expressly desires you to be
guided by the opinions of your friends on
the matter. You are not the first person,
Detta, who has lost a friend at a distance.
When you are a little older, you will understand
that circumstances will not always
permit us to fly hither and thither, as our
feelings would dictate, to bid farewell to
every dying friend in a foreign country."

Benedetta was silent for a moment ; then
she looked her aunt firmly in the face.

Aunt," she said, " I have made up
my mind that I must go. I am sorry, very
sorry to make 3^011 angry ; but I am sure
it is right. And, even if I were not sure,"
she added in a lower voice, " I must have
gone."

You mean to go ? " asked Lady Dumbarton,
raising herself upright again, and gazing
at her niece Avitli a sort of hard glitter in her
eyes that answered for what in more demonstrative
people would have been a violent outbreak
of passion. " Against my express commands

? And low do you intend to go ? And
when?"

I shall go by myself, of course," replied
Detta. " And I think I had better go tomorrow."


I forbid you to go ! " said the elder
woman. " No niece of mine shall depart in
such disreputable fashion on such an errand.
You will have to choose between your Eoman
friends and me. If you go on that journey,
unattended, to lodge by yourself no one
knows where, in that Papist city, you do it
knowing the cost. I wash my hands of you.
You can take your choice. You had better
leave me now."

And ringing the bell at her bed-head for
the maid. Lady Dumbarton deliberately turned
her face to the wall and her back upon her
niece.

It was a matter of astonishment to Detta in
after days that she had the courage to carry
through her resolution in spite of all opposition
and difficulty. It was a dreary day.
Her aunt utterly refused to speak to her or
take any notice of her ; and Miss Sparke,

following the lead of her employer, maintained
towards the delinquent an air of cold and
silent indignation ; whilst obstacles not a
few rose up in the girl's own mind to
prompt her to relinquish her project, or at
any rate to defer it. It was a grievous
disappointment to her not to be present at
her cousin's wedding ; and to give up the visit
to which she had looked forward so much,
above all, to lose the advice and assistance
which she had expected both from Eva and
her mother on the subject of her own proposed
plans.

Now, it might be months before she again
saw them — years perhaps — who could tell ?
Once settled at Eome, was it not possible that
her relatives — one of whom she had deeply
angered, and the other of whom was now restricted,
by the limits of an exceedingly scant
income — might forget their former love for
her, or at any rate fail to ask her at any time
to return to them ?

Benedetta had fancied that her affection for
her mother's country was a deeply rooted and
prevailing sentiment ; and so in one sense it

was. The very name of Italy the limpid
sound of the soft Italian tongue, had power
to arouse a sort of yearning in her breast.
Nevertheless, she felt that to return to Eome
now, unaccompanied, and in defiance of the
wishes it might be of all her English friends —
was to exchange a present certainty of lionel
and home love for a very doubtful equivalent.


Eome, with all the romance of its surroundings,
with all the charm of its reminiscences,
would be at any rate at first a land of
strangers, affording but a chill welcome after
her long and solitary journey.

It was nearly seven years since Detta, in
company with Eafaelino Bartolucci, had left
the Eternal City and started for English shores
and seven years is a long time in the life of
a grown girl. She was then a child ; she
was now a woman. Her former acquaintances,
of whom she had but a hazy remembrance,
would maner of them be dead
or passed away; and others, in point of
position and education, be totally uncongenial
companions.

Annunciata was dead, Pippo lead left ; there
would not be one single soul whom she remembered
and cared for — not one single soul
to connect her with the old days — save the
Maestro and Ino. And Ino, if not already
gone, would be leaving almost immediately
after her arrival. And then Detta thought of
the cheerful rooms at Ashley Manor, of her
aunt's maternal ways, of Eveleen's affection
and espiegkrie, oi Major Drew's kind and cordial
face, and Beresford Conway's agreeable
presence ; and, as in contrast to the scene,
there rose up before her a vision of the large,
cheerless room on the fourth piano of the
Palazzo Carborelli, inhabited by one solitary
old man, dying, perhaps speechless — not a
friendly face or voice near to assist or advise
her heart for a moment nearly failed her.

But only for one moment. The next she
was reproaching herself with bitter scorn for
the selfishness which could harbour such
thoughts — such fears.

What had the future to do with it ?
Whatever the future might bring forth was
nothing to her ; her duty in the present lay

before her clearly enough. And was not the
duty also a pleasure ? Had lie no heart to
take pleasure m soothing the dying moments,
and fulfilling the last dying wish of the
Maestro, whom she had always told herself
she loved so dearly ?

Yet it was a trying day to her ; and would
have been still more trying had it not been
for the natural excitement inseparable at her
age from the prospect of so long and novel a
journey. She had plenty to do. Yarrow and
Eollo must be bid farewell, a long letter must
be written to her cousin Eva to arrive tie
next morning instead of herself at the Manor,
detailing every circumstance which had
induced her to follow her present line of
action, much packing up, and before dinner,
one last run, tired as she was, to the favourite
knoll where she and her canine friend had so
often sat together, to bid adieu to the blue
streak of distant sea — that northern sea upon
which she might never rest her e3^es again.
How often it had rolled in, grey and turbulent,
beneath her feet, as she stood that spring upon
the rocky cliff walls that bounded its tide ; but

how clear and unbroken lay the reflections
now upon its glassy surface, as the white and
red sails of the far-off fishing boats sparkled
here and there like daylight stars

Before retiring to her room for the night,
Detta made one more effort at reconciliation
with her aunt. Lady Dumbarton was about
to leave the room without a word to her niece
when the girl stopped her half timidly.

*' May I come and say good-bye to you in
the morning, aunt, before I go ? " she asked.

'' I have no wish to see you again," replied
the other, " unless you come to tell me that
you have repented of your foU}^, and mean
to obey those under whose care you are
placed."

Oh, aunt, do not be so angry — so hard
with me ! I would obey you if I could — if it
was anything else you asked me. But I must
do this."

'• There is no must," said Lady Dumbarton.
On the contrary, your wilfulness is astounding.
You, a girl not yet nineteen, are flying
in the face of your natural protectors — those
whom Providence has placed over you. It is

preposterous conduct. What the end of it all
will be no one can tell. Do not blame me, if, as
you make your bed, so you have to lie upon
it. I cannot say it would astonish me to hear
anything, however disreputable, of a girl who
persisted in taking such a step. Were I
legally your guardian ^^ou should be restrained
by force. As it is, I have no legal
power over you, and moral power you defy.
As things have turned out, it is perhaps as
well for me that you are not my ward. I am
deeply disappointed in you, Detta."

So saying, Lady Dumbarton sailed from
the room, whilst Detta dropped her head upon
her hands and burst into tears. She was by no
means a strong-minded, self-opinionated young
woman, able to receive such harsh words with
impunity' ; she was, on the contrary, sensitive
to the judgment of others and easily wounded
by those she loved ; and she felt cut to the
quick by a tone of such bitter severity coming
from one between whom and herself so sincere
a regard had of late existed.

She started and raised her head quickly,
however, as the voice of Miss Sparke made

itself heard beside lier. Miss Sparke's manner
was reserved and lier eye cold. There was a
stand-aloof, noli mi tangere sort of air about
her, as, in measured tones and with exaggerated
dignity, entirely differing from her usual
half-nervous, half-querulous style of utterance,
she delivered her message.

'' My lady begs me to tell you, Miss
Campbell, that the carriage will be ready to
take you to the station at any hour you may
please to order it tomorrow morning. Much
as she is displeased at your line of conduct,
she does not wish, for the credit of the family,
to disgrace her niece in the eyes of the
servants. She therefore begs you to entrust
your orders to me and I will see that they are
properly carried out ; and will myself escort
you to your train."

Probably this was the first interview
between Detta and Miss Sparke, since the
arrival of the former at Steynton Court, that
had been a source of satisfaction to the lady
companion. But so unmistakably was this
sentiment now displayed in her manner, that
the girl found it impossible not to refuse,

with a proud pereniptorinesss, lier proffered
company.

I am much obliged to Aunt Dumbarton,"
she said ; " but I will not trouble j^ou to come
with me, Miss Sparke. I do not think it
would be any pleasure to either of us."

It does not surprise me," snorted Miss
Sparke, " that a young lad}?^ whose movements
are so eccentric and so unhampered by the
conventional proprieties of life should prefer
to go about by herself. It is, on the contrary,
just what I should have expected."

'■^i^^

VOL. II.

Friendly WORDS.

LADY DUMBARTON passed but a restless
night; and, although she sent no further
message, nor showed any intention of a reconciliation
with her niece, yet was she fully
alive to every sound of early departure
echoing down the long passages the next
morning— to the opening and shutting of the
front door, and to the noise of carriage
wheels, as they rolled down the drive. A
moment later, her maid brought her a note,
which she allowed to lie carelessly enough
upon the bed, until the girl had left the
room, and then tore open with a strange
wistfulness at her heart — a wistfulness which
she would not willingly have acknowledged
even to herself. It was from Detta, short and

simple enoiigli. She had felt it impossible to
leave her aunt without one last word.

Dear aunt, I am very, very sorry to have
made you so angry with me ; and 0, so sorry
that you will not say good-b3^e. Perhaps,
some day you will be able to forgive me for
disobeying sou. But I feel that I must do it,
and that it is my duty. I should be wicked
and beneath scorn, if I were to leave the
Maestro to die alone. He was my only
friend as a child — he wants me

Perhaps sou will never care to see iije
again, and perhaps things may turn out so
that I shall never return to England ; but I
shall always be grateful to you, and love you
for your kindness to me. What makes me
more sad than anything else, is to know that
you think me unfeeling can do nothing,
I am afraid, to alter that ; but I can promise
you, that, please God, wherever I live, I will
never do anything to disgrace my family', or
to degrade myself. Detta."

For many a mile after Detta had started on

25*

her long journey, lier note remained in Lady
Dumbarton's fingers ; and the stern face
softened, as, all alone, the old woman re-read
the simple words. But, when at length she
made her appearance downstairs, her features
had again assumed their usual fixed expression
; and no one would have guessed how
greatly she missed the sound of the bright,
young voice, and the light, quick step, nor
how, even now, her heart was dwelling with
a vague yearning, on the sweet oval face,
with its grave, truthful glance — the face of
the girl who reminded her of her own lost
child, and whom she had permitted to leave
her house without farewell word or kiss —
nay, whom she had driven from her with a
threat of future estrangement.

The only indication of her feelings was in
the manner with which she received Miss
Sparke's attempt at discussion of the subject.
There was a scornful acerbity in her tone, as
she promptly put a stop to her companion's
remarks, which convinced the latter lady that
the topic was a dangerous one, for the future
to be avoided.

Meanwhile, Detta, seated in the down express,
was whizzing through the northern
counties with a failing heart. Now that she
had really started, she began to realise the
loneliness of her position, and the long, dreary
journey that lay before her.

The fact that Lady Dumbarton had not said
good-bye to her, especially weighed on her
mind ; and, notwithstanding her conviction
that she was doinijf the riixht things, she could
not free herself from feelings of self dissatisfaction,
and a sense of ingratitude upon this
point. She began to wonder, sadly, whether
it were not possible that her relatives at
Ashley might agree with Lady Dumbarton.
Would Aunt rann}^ too, consider her conduct
wilful, unreasonable and improper ?
Perhaps even Eveleen might share her
mother's sentiments, and all her English
relations be turned against her by this one
rash act of hers ! Detta must, indeed, have
been greatly depressed before such a fancy
as this could have taken hold of her mind.
Presently, as the train sped on, stopping at
station after station, and her two or three

travelling companions got out, leaving her
alone in the carriage, the girl's emotion
became too much for her, and the tears that
had so long been rising from her heart, welled
over, Find followed each other rapidly down
lier cheeks. In fact, poor Detta had, what
her sex appropriately call, " a good cry," only
rousing herself hurriedly to dry her eyes as
the train began again to slacken speed. Her
heart was heavy as she looked out of the
window. They were now approaching Nase-borough
Junction — the junction at which she
had always been accustomed to chase when
returning to Ashley.

Very often Eveleen's bright face had
greeted her here ; or, if not Eveleen's, the
broad friendly countenance of Aunt Fanny's
well-dressed housekeeper, or the immovably
respectful one of her elderly male factotum — ■
that important person who combined in himself
the duties of butler, confidential friend
and agent. For it was one of Mrs. Wilding's
fancies never to permit her niece to arrive
unattended at their own little wayside station.
No chance of her seeing anyone now, however,

and as the train stopped, Detta drew back into
the corner to escape observation, puling her
veil down over her eyes, and pretending to be
immersed in the newspaper which lay upon her
lap. But a minute had scarcely passed before
she started at the sound of a voice at her
elbow.

There was nothing original, however, about
the words which greeted her. They were
merely a quiet " How are you. Miss Campbell
? " uttered in the slow deliberate tones she
knew so well ; and the vivid flush that came
over her features was caused as much perhaps
by pleasure as by shamefaced consciousness of
her still wet eyes.

She had never realised before how much
she liked Mr. Conway, nor how sincerely she
Relieved him her friend, as now, when in a
fit of loneliness and low spirits, she fancied
herself more than half cast adrift from all her
E 1 1 glisli moor i n gs .

I am so glad to see you," she said, involuntarily
giving him her hand with a smile ;
and the expression of her eyes emphasising her
words.

It was a new thing for Detta, with her
usual proud young self-reliance, to be
clinging so eagerly, almost humbly, to the
comfort of friendship ; but the fact was no
cause for dissatisfaction to Beresford Conway,
as, taking advantage of it to retain her
hand in his a little longer than custom usually
requires, he stepped into the carriage and
sat down beside her.

You did your best to hide yourself from
me," he remarked as he did so.

Yes," said Detta, turning aside her flushed
face for a moment. "But sou know I did
not expect to see any one here. You knew I
was coming by this train ? "

Of course ; Eva got your letter this morning.
And I am the bearer of no end of messages
from her and her mother."

Oh," she said eagerly, " tell me, are they
angry too ? Do they think I have done

wrong t

Eveleen thinks ' you have behaved nobly,
as you always do.' Those are her words, not
mine. I have brought a letter from her, which
she says you are not to open till I am gone, as

there is nothing in it but gossip ; and I am to
hear all your plans first."

And Aunt Fanny ? " she asked.

Well, at first cousin Fanny was inclined to
be a bit cantankerous ; but when she heard
of Lady Dumbarton's behaviour, she — a —
veered round. 'It was just what she would
have expected of that narrow-minded old
woman,' she said ; ' she had never had any
heart herself, and could not comprehend it in
others. It was the only lit and proper course
for you to take under the circumstances ; and
she was not the person to turn a cold shoulder
towards her niece for — a — having more heart
than prudence.' "

Detta's face was beaming now, and she
smiled brightly.

Dear aunt Fanny ! " she exclaimed,

how kind and warm-hearted she always

J?

IS.

Yes," said Mr. Conway quietly. " Especially
when Aunt Maria is unkind and calculating."


The weight that was lifted from Detta's
mind was great. The fear of general disapprobation

which she had conjured up was
dismissed ; and she talked freely, even gaily,
to her companion.

There was so kindly a smile upon Mr. Conway's
countenance — he was so little of the
lover and so much of the friend — that she felt
it easy to conte in him, and seek his advice
upon her plans.

And you ? " she asked, in her sudden rush
of friendliness, anxious to assure herself of his
good opinion.

You could not have done otherwise," he
replied, the little accent upon the pronoun
just sufficiently perceptible to be gratifying.
'•• And now," he said, "tell me all you mean todo
; for my return examination will be exhaustive.
You will not, I suppose, stop long in
your Eoman isolation ? "

That depends, of course," she replied,
upon the nature of the Maestro's illness. If
he gets much better, or," she added in a lower
tone, " if he die, I may come back — not
otherwise."

'' In fact," said Mr. Conway, looking grave,
the length of your absence is absolutely uncertain.

When shall we meet again, Miss
Campbell ? "

''I don't know," said Detta half sadly. " I
hope I shall see you all again some day ; if,"
she added, somewhat shakily, " you haven't
forgotten nie."

I am an awfully slow beggar to forget,"
he remarked, covering, Detta could not but
feel, some deeper feeling under his lightness
of tone ; "I never can manage to forget anyone,
not even my duns."

Well," she said, " it may be that I shall
come back very soon ; so," and she laughed,
I won't grow sentimental about it."

Whenever you do return," said Mr.
Conway, " I was to tell you that you must
consider yourself engaged to come at once to
Eva's house. That was the particular message
of all. Eva said I was to tell 5^ou she would
never forgive you, if you went anywhere else
before coming to her ; and Drew was just as
strong upon the point as she was. By the
bye, Drew told me to deliver that message to
cousin Detta with his — a — best love."

The sudden reaction of all this kindness

and these affectionate messages upset Detta for
the second time that morning, and her eyes
filled with quick tears which she strove in
vain to keep from making their appearance.
You are all so good, so verj'- good to me,"
she said in a low voice. And she never
thought of feeling either indignant or surprised
when for a moment she found her
hand again imprisoned in a little friendly
pressure in that of her neighbour Afterwards
onl3'% it struck her as an odd
proceeding on the part of a man usually
so reserved and undemonstrative as Beresford
Conway. But Detta was but eighteen ; and,
notwithstanding her one or two little love
affairs, still an ignorant and simple minded
girl, who had yet to learn that the calmest
and most undemonstrative of men can, when
once throughly in love, comport themselves
much in the same fashion as their less
dignified and reticent brethren. Mr. Conway,
however, seemed to have no idea of
making further use of the present favourable
opportunity for pressing that little matter on
which he had spoken to Detta but a fcAv

weeks ago, as they sat together on the breezy
common that sloped away from Steynton
Court. Such a proceeding was indeed very
far from his purpose. Circumstances change
all things ; and, whatever his private sentiments,
they did not override his present
determination to avoid the subject. Friendship,
however, was still permissible ; and there
was no reason why he should deny himself
the pleasure of looking into those glorious
dark eyes, and smiling back his most eloquent
sympathy in response to their confiding
glances.

Eva ? " he said, in answer to some remark
of his companion's — " Oh ! Eva is unapproachable
to mortal man, save, perhaps, at dinner-time
(and dinner with her is only an act of
courtesy, for she eats nothing). Curious it
seems that happiness should be so intimately
connected with the organs of digestion. She is
all day long trying on gowns and veils and
mantillas and furbelows of some sort. Even
poor Arthur approaches — a — with trembling
the door of the library, the room at present
devoted to the dressmaker and her

mystic arts ; and if she admit him, lias to
wade to lier across seas of drapery and
through a cloud of frowns from the presiding
goddess."

'' Does aunt Fanny feel her loss as much
now ? " asked Detta.

Mr. Conway's brow became less smooth.
It was evidently a painful subject to him.
She frets less," he said. " The excitement
of the wedding and all this dressmaking takes
it off her mind. She will feel it most when
Eva is married, and she has — a — to leave
Ashley."

I had forgotten that," said Detta, half
under her breath. ' That will be a great
trial to her, poor aunt ! ' she thought. But
something in Mr. Conway's face prevented
her putting her thought into words. Instead,
she felt impelled to give him some little token
of sympathy in return for his kindness, if
only it might be acceptable.

And you," she asked hesitatingly, " it
must be a great change to you ? " wondering
the next moment whether it would not have
been better to leave the subject alone, and

flushing bright crimson with the suspicion of
a want of tact.

But this reply set her fears at rest. His
voice had resumed its easy tone, and he gave
that slight sound which was his nearest
approach to a laugh. " I ? " he asked. " Oh
it is nothing to me. I am a man. In facta
— it is an interesting lesson in life. It is
remarkable what mistaken views we are apt to
hold of ourselves. When we are placed upon
the same financial level, we fid how much —
a — the intelligent working man is our
superior. When one is put to it, one
discovers that one has neither talent nor
industry, is probably even short of the
requisite physical capabilities. I myself am
not clever enough to write books, or to
start companies — couldn't even drive a
plough or putty up a window ! " He
paused, and Detta glanced up in his face,
uncertain whether to laugh, or to take his
seriously spoken words as the expression of
a melancholy truth. There was certainly
nothing particularly melancholy about Mr.
Conway's expression, as he gave a friendly

twirl to his lonc^ moustache ; and the little
unconscious self-complacency of the movement
emboldened her to continue the
conversation.

Which did sou think of coins P " she
asked, with a gravity equal to his own. "The
books or the plough, I mean ? "

I am mercifully relieved from the dilemma
of a choice," was the reply. " My father says
something of offering me an agency in Ireland ;
which I shall probably accept, and expatriate
myself amongst the Celtic savages of Galway
for an indefinite period."

Here the conversation was interrupted by
the entrance of three passengers — a somewhat
fussy, elderly clergyman, a stout, asthmatic
wife, and a son of a serious countenance in
gold spectacles.

The arrangement of themselves, their
various books and parcels, was not achieved
without much movement and confusion ;
and almost as soon as this was happily
accomplished, the ticket collector presented
himself at the door.

Going on, sir ? " he enquired, as Mr.

Conway proved to be minus the necessary
ticket.

No — a — that is to say, yes," was the reply,
causing a glance of curiosity from the
asthmatic lady, and one of suspicion from the
young man in the gold spectacles.

You've barely time to get your ticket,
sir."

"Here, porter ! " called Mr. Conway, "just
get me a ticket."

Where for, sir ? "

What's the name of that big place about
half an hour from here ? "

Sturton, sir ? "

Yes ! of course. Sturton. Name went
out of my head. Look sharp and bring me a
ticket."

I didn't know you were going on," said
Detta innocently.

No more did I," her companion was upon
the point of replying, changing his remark,
however, in time into : " Well, I've business
in this direction "

Both the young man and his mother
appeared highly suspicious as to the nature of
VOL. II 20

this business ; but ilieir critical looks little
affected. Mr. Conway ; and Detta was far too
simple-minded to be conscious of them, as,
the ticket brought and the train steaming out
of the station, she and her neighbour resumed
their conversation.

The half-hour seemed like live minutes, and
it was a cause of real regret to her when the
smoky chimneys of Sturton came in sight.

Are you going to cross by the mail tonight
? " he asked, as the train slackened
speed.

Yes, I'm o'oiniT to travel all to-ni^dit and
sleep somewhere to-morrow — at Turin,
perhaps."

It is not fit for you to go alone," he
remarked.

You forget," said Detta ; •" I'm a polyglot
sort of creature. I'm not the least bit in the
vvorld afraid of anything. And the moment I
set foot in Italy " — and her eyes brightened —
-' I shall be in my own country."

'' It isn't fit," he repeated, his eyes still fixed
upon her. "I suppose it wouldn't do for me
to coupe with you and see sou safe on board

the boat ? We might," he added meditatively
" be taken for a runaway couple, perhaps."


No," said Detta, in her determined little
tone ; " that wouldn't do at all. Besides,
everyone is always so kind when one travels.
Girls can go anywhere nowadays by themselves
— English girls, I mean."

Mr. Conway's face by no means expressed
a cordial assent to this opinion ; but he was
bound to acquiesce in the decision.

In another moment the train had stopped,
Detta's two hands had been placed in his, and
kept for a moment in a firm, warm clasp, while
her bright young face, almost affectionate in
its friendly gratitude, gazed up with a smile,
not entirely removed from a suspicion of tears,
into his. A minute later, and it was moving
on its way again, leaving Mr. Conway on the
platform and bearing Benedetta southward.
She carried with her now, however, a very
different heart from the heavy one which she
had borne previous to his appearance Now
that she knew that she took with her the
approbation of some of those she loved, her

26*

tlioiiglits no longer burdened her ; and-were
it not for the Maestro's illness, the difficulties
of a long and solitary journey would almost
have dissolved themselves in the sort of adventurous
amusement which they presented to
a young girl full of life and spirit. She began
humming softly to herself, and was quite
oblivious of her companions and the observant
looks with which the whole trio were regarding
her over " Times," novel, and " Mills'
Political Economy."

But she must open Eveleen's letter. As
she did so, out of it, to her astonishment, fella
five-pound note, which fluttered to the feet
of the solemn youth, and alighted so pointedly
upon his boots, that he was perforce obliged
to pick it up, and hand it, with a stiff bow, to
his blushing neighbour.

Eva's letter was, as usual, a mixture of
bright fun and kindliness. It had been
written in a great hurry that morning previous
to her cousin Beresford's departure ; and, for
the most part, as he had said, contained
nothing more important than light gossip over
her own affairs, bemoaning over Detta's enforced

absence from lier wedding, and
sympathy with lier over its cause and Aunt
Dumbarton's cantankerousness.

Don't be a goose about this five pound
note," she wrote ; " it is just a little present
from me. I dare say you are starting (with
that common sense, which is your chief
characteristic), like the proverbial fortune-makers,
with two-pence halfpenny in your
pocket. That join know is all verj^ well for
3^oung Whittington, but it doesn't do for
young ladies. I suppose when you get to
the Maestro's, however, you will be all right?
It would have been ten pounds only for this
disgusting wedding frippery. I wish I had
known before I ordered my trousseau that I
was going to lose all my money ! Such a mass
of silks and satins that I should like now to
turn into pianos, and arm-chairs, or cooking-ranges
! It is such a bore. I wanted to put
some of them up to auction to a girl I knew
in Town, who is going to be married ; but
mama nearly had a fit when I named the
idea, and Arthur is such an old goose that he
backed her up ; so I had to give it up.

Arthur, by-the-bye, is so devoted to 3x^11,
that, if I were not, luckily for me, most
highly appreciative of my own charms, I
should feel it my duty to be jealous. Now,
don't forget, Detta, that sou come to us the
moment you return to England. Arthur
is counting the days to your visit. I tell
him it is quite indecent — just upon the point
of being married to another woman ! But
such are men ; and we poor deluded womankind
have to make the best of them. (Neb. —
Oh ! Detta, he is such a blessed old boy ! I'm
thinking all day long how little I deserve to
be so very, very, V E E Y happy. If only
we could find one like him for you — you dear
old girl — but that's impossible I) The only
person to hold a candle to him is Beresford.
I can't tell sou what a brick he too has been
thrush all this worry ; he never seems to
think of himself. His father. Lord Court-hope,
has offered him the use of an old house
of theirs up in Derbyshire rent free, and
Beresford has actually declined it, begging
him to transfer the offer to mama, and
himself applying for an Irish agency. The

Irish property is in ann awfully wild, drear
district, so you can imagine the miserable
expatriation it would be to a man like
Beresford, accustomed all this life lone' to
every sort of luxury and society."

There was a good deal more in the two
hastily scribbled sheets, which Detta read
and re-read with a lingering pleasure ; then
letting them Ml into her lap, whilst, with a
vSJiiile upon her lips, she gazed out of the
window pondering over their contends. We
do not look very far ahead at eighteen ; and
cas Detta's train sped along through the dull
monotony of the midland counties, the tame
.scenery and grey sky brightened under the
influence of an inner sunshine. There was
no one in the world like Eveleen — no one —
unless it where the Maestro. If o\Ay the
Maestro would recover, how bright and
happy would be life — whether spent in
ministering to the old man's comfort in her
own peerless native city, or taking up her
abode with those English relations who
showed her such cordial kindness. Beresford
Conway, too, came in, unavoidably, for a share

of lier reflections. How good and generous
lie always \Yas. How few strangers would
have given him credit for the fine qualities
which underhand his conventional, and — must
it be said ? — his half-affected manner — the
manner which had struck her so much at
first, hut which now she had grown accustomed
to accept without comment — almost to like.
How kind he had been to her that day ; how
much sympathy he had shown her, what a
real friendly regard he seemed to feel for
her. Pie was now completely her friend and
nothing more— just what she had wished him
to be.

But somehow, sometimes, when we have
wished for a change, and the change comes,
the transformation is apt to take us a little
aback, and we do not feel quite so clear as
to its comparative merits. It was certainly
a little odd that Mr. Conway should have sat
beside her for a full half-hour, and finally
have parted from her without once referring,
in the faintest manner, to the topic he had
pressed upon her so earnestly the last time of
their meeting. It was better so — in fact.

just as she had desired ; still it was a little
singular that a man of his disposition, neither
young, thoughtless nor impulsive, should so
quickly relinquish any object which he had
at heart. Had he really changed his mind,
and come to the conclusion that she was
quite right, and that there were many women
in the world that would suit him far better
than herself? It was undeniably true. He
was entitled to look for his wife in a rank
superior to hers. Many women, rich and
well born, cleverer, and more beautiful than
she, might be quite willing to accept such a
position. Besides, had she not told him that
she would never care for him otherwise than
as a friend ; and was a sensible, experienced
man of the v7orld, fully alive to his own value,
likely to hang on for months like a romantic
schoolboy, in hopes of a retractation on her
part? And yet — he had said he should!
The smell of the sea and the cool west wind
seemed again to be surrounding Detta as she
recalled the words to which she had listened
that day as they sat together on the Yorkshire
sand-hills overlooking the great brown cliffs,

the murmur of the distant slaves mingling
with their conversation.

When I have made up my mind, I can be
pigheaded enough," he had said. " And
until I hear you are going to marry someone
else, I shall stick to it." These had been
strong words coming from Mr. Conway.
Could he so soon have altered his determination
?

And then Detta's cheeks suddenly
crimsoned, and she reproached herself with
a new, or hitherto undiscovered vice — that
of wishing' to retain the affections of one whose
Love she could not return. With considerable
mental vigour, she accordingly repulsed the
subject from her thoughts ; and avoided
enquiring too closely into the little sediment
of dissatisfaction remaining her mind.

^^^^4

r^'>

IN HOME ONCE MORE.

IT was the evening of the third day since
Benedetta's departure from England ; and
the Florence train was slowly puffing its way
southward. l\ome was nearing now ; and
before Detta's eyes as she sat leaning forward
and eagerly gazing out of the window, came
in sioflit the loci e^reen billows ol the Campaign-na
sea. leer heart swelled within her, and
involuntarily she clasped her hands. How it
recalled her childhood— the vision of that
great, wide-stretching desert of grass, its
solitudes unbroken by abode of man, and
rarely traversed by human foot — the little
hollows already lying in early twilight, whilst
the uplands caught the last rays of a gorgeous
sun in the act of setting behind gold and
purple bars.

It had been a hot day, painfully stifling inside
a railway carriage ; and already the slow
white mist was creeping up from the short
grass and shimmering above the lonely plains.

Benedetta bent forward more earnestly, the
colour rushing to her cheek, and the tears into
her eyes. There, in the dim distance, like an
unreal, unearthly thing, rose the great, grey
dome, encircled by mists, and seeming to hang
in the sky rather than to have its foundations
in earth. Who has not felt their heart stir
within them at the first sight of that vast
mysterious cupola, greeting approaching
travellers as a fit and solemn introduction to
the further glories, yet to come, of the Eternal
City?

And then the Campagna passed out of sight,
and houses took its ]Place ; and beneath the
almost overhanging shade of grand historic
ruins, of walls that had seen the centuries roll
by, of arches that had supported the weight of
imperial processions — the noisy, snorting embodiment
of travel of this our fussy, utilitarian
nineteenth century, brought itself to a standstill
in that greatest of all incongruities — the

railway station of Rome ; and in a moment all
was bustle, shouting and confusion.

It was too far on in the season for the spring
herd of foreign tourists — the frantic Englishwomen
in dust cloaks, brandishing sunshades
and shrieking for the assistance of tardy
porters in every language save the correct
one — of excited Englishmen offering fees to
the wrong people, and indignantly pursuing
the luggage which had been forcibly torn
from their protective grasp — nevertheless, the
train was a full one, and Detta had to undergo
some little pushing and elbowing from a nondescript
and chiefly masculine crowd, before
rescuing her small trunk, and seeing it placed
upon the box seat of one of the open cabs,
standing in the station piazza. Alas ! for the
sacrilegious combination of ideas ! Cabs in
imperial Eome, rattling with ignoble wheels
over pavements once passed over by the
gilded litters of emperors and empresses —
down roads which had witnessed the triumphal
passage of many a victorious general, followed
by his scores of captives ; which had rung with
the wild orgies of the Bona Dea and its frantic,

flower-garlanded women, or the Saturnalia, in
whose lawless diversions consuls were not
ashamed to join ! Corrupt, voluptuous, barbarous,
magnificent old Rome, how are thy
glories fallen !

But, as Detta placed herself in her carriage,
she thought little of all this — she scarcely
glanced at the ruins of an old temple, where,
centuries ago, the Eoman youths had been
accustomed to osier their very life-blood to
the presiding deity as a testimony of the
strength and courage of their manhood — she
did not even notice the pillar, half crumbled
away into the dust of ages, where Cicero had
once stood to harangue the Eoman people
with his burnings words. Her thouij''hts were
fixed upon the Maestro, and she was filled with
a nervous fear as to the news that might greet
her on reaching the Palazzo.

Would Ino still be there ? Would he have
received her telegram despatched that morning
from Florence, and be expecting her ?

When at length, after traversing the many
stony streets, filled with the hot golden haze of
a midsummer's evening, and turning obliquely

through the Corso already beginning to light
up its long line of brilliant shops, the cab
drew up before the entrance to the Palazzo
Carborelli, it was with fear and trembling
that the girl alighted, and half groping her
way through the darkened courtyard, began
to mount the steep stone stairs. It felt like a
dream to be ^igain climbing that interminable
staircase, up and down which she had pattered
so often as a child. It seemed as if the past
had completely returned to her and she was
once again the little Piccola, creeping up with
tant-led hair and ra£>-f?ed dress, away from

o fro 'J

'Nunciata's scolding to the cool, calm refuge
of her old Maestro's room. The very odours
seemed the same — the hot, half-earthy smell
that hung about the staircase, and the fumes
of burnt coffee that rose from below, mixing
with the sweeter scent of the orange trees that
grew in the courtyard. She went slower and
slower as she neared the top of the sixty odd
steps ; and her hand trembled as she laid it
upon the bell attached to the entrance door
of the third piano. In an instant, light
sparkled through the window, and a footstep

came tripping down the passage. The
door was briskly opened, and on the threshold
stood a pretty black-eyed servant. She
smiled with bright welcome on seeing Bene-delta,
and hastily placing her oil lamp upon
the table, ran back to one of the open doors
within.

La snoring, signor ! " she exclaimed.
And the next moment a tall fissure in a holland
suit came quickly out, and Ino was holding
Detta's hands in his in warmest welcome.

'■ I got your telegram this morning," he
said, the light which the maid servant held
falling upon his flushed face and glowing
eyes ; " but before that, I knew you would
come. I knew my letter would bring you."

How is he ? " she asked.

"Far better than we ever expected. He
has rallied wonderfully He is sitting up and
can even speak and move. When I told him
of your telegram this morning, he said, ' I
am content ; the only wish I had left in life
was to see the Piccola again ! ' "

Then without further words, they passed,
hand in hand, together into the darkened

room. It had a great likeness, so it seemed
to Detta, to the one where she had so often
played six years ago. The same old armoire
was there, the same old faded arm-chair, the
same tattered crimson cushions on the
window seats, and the same yellow hangings
before the bed in the alcove. The lofty
room was fairly fresh and cool, even at
the close of a June day ; and, glancing
through the open windows, she recognised
each dome and spire that stood outlined
against the fading splendour of the gold and
crimson sky, as one recognises the faces of
long absent but once intimate friends. It
was but a hasty glance, however ; for Ino did
not pause as he led her across the long room,
saying, in his rich tones, full now of a tender
congratulation, " Echo, Maestro mio ; e la
Piccola ! " And in another moment, Detta
was kneeling beside the bed, and had flung
her arms round the attenuated figure propped
up against the pillows, laying her soft young
cheek against the withered face of her old
friend and guardian. The old man was too
agitated for some moments to speak. He
VOL. II. 27

could only clasp her in this shaking arms,
whilst the hardly shed tears of old age
coursed slowly down his cheeks. But
presently he became calmer ; and then
Eafaelino moved the arm-chair up to the
bed-side, and she sat down, holding in
hers and gently stroking the long thin
fingers. How well she remembered every
line of the pale, dreamy, refined face ! After
sixty, a few years make but little difference to
the appearance ; and to Benedetta he appeared
just the same — save for being thinner and
more worn — as when she parted from him,
hanging with such passionate grief round his
neck, that cold January day.

To Cortauld too, it seemed almost as if the
past six years had been recalled. For, to his
sightless eyes, there was no shock of discovery
in the fact that his child Piccola had now
grown into a tall and graceful maiden ; the
touch of her soft, caressing hand was much
the same, and so was the old loving way in
which she crept up to him and smoothed the
scanty, silken hair above his forehead ; whilst
her voice recalled old times yet more forcibly,

and was completely the voice of the little
niccolo ill its loving eagerness — that is to say
of the Piccola in her softest and kindest
moments.

Talk to me of England," he said presently,
as Ino returned after a conversation he had
been holding with Betting, the bright-eyed
servant girl, on the mundane subject of
refreshment for the tired traveller.

Thus requested, Benedetta began to tell
him of her English home and relations,
dwelling chiefly upon the bright character
and many attractions of her cousin Eveleen,
]presently joined by Eafaelino, who drew a
chair to the other side of the bed, and chimed
in pleasantly with his London reminiscences,
and with a cordial assent to Detta's panegyric
on her cousin. There was nothing about
Ino's manner to suggest that he had any
recollection of that episode in town, which
Detta, before her arrival, had feared might bethe
cause of some constraint or estrangement
between them.

Nothing could be more easy and friendly
than the manner of the young sculptor ; and

27*

although at times somewhat silent, it was the
silence rather of a natural thoughtfulness than
of constraint.

I am leaving on the morrow early," he
said, when at length, her modest supper over,
and with the bells from the surroundings
church towers clanging out eleven on the
breathless night, Betting came in to offer to
show the Signorina to her bed-room. "I
have to return to my work. I shall leave
the Maestro now in good hands. You will
write to me ? And," he continued more
earnestly, " if sou want me in any way, you
will send for me, will sou not ? Remember
it is but a few hours' journey from Florence
here."

When, after a sweet, restful sleep of eight
or nine hours, Benedetta arose the next
morning from her bed in the cosy little
room, which, though she knew it not, Vino
had vacated for her benefit, and hastily
dressing herself, entered the Maestro's room,
where the thick green shutters were fastened
dov\'n to keep out the blazing eight o'clock
sun, she found the young man already there

ready for departure, and seated ou the
invalid's bed for a last chat. His eyes lit
up with pleasure as she came in ; and
rising, he bent to kiss her hand.

You should have rested longer," he said
reproachfully, his face at variance with his
tone.

Benedetta laughed gaily. " 1 have rested
quite long enough," she said. " Who could
lie in bed in this bright sunshine ? Do I look
tired ? "

She looks as fresh as a rose, Maestro,"
said Ino, as Benedetta approached the qjd
man.

She is as fresh as a rose," said Detta
brightly. " And she longs to see the dear
old streets of Eome again b}^ daylight. Shall
I walk with you to the railway station,
Ino ? "

But, to her surprise, he hurriedly rejected
her offer.

No, no, Signorina, that would never
do ! "

Why not ? " she asked. " And why am I
Signorina ? ' "

It would not do for you, an Italian young
lady, to take me to the station," he repeated,
looking distressed.

But I am Irilf-Englisli," she replied,
smiling. " I had forgotten Italian proprieties.
Are }'oa ashamed to be seen with
me, In ) ? "

The young sculptor's i\ice became perfectly
crimson; and Detta saw that her thoughtless
fun was beyond his appreciation.

Ashamed ! " he stammered. " Ah Dio I
how can you say such a thing ? It would be
too much honour for me. But in Eome the
young ladies do not such things — I could
not bear for anyone to think that you should
so far condescend "

He paused, unable to express himself more
clearly ; but from the look of real pain upon
his face, Benedetta saw that she must desist
alike from her Anglican contempt of Italian
etiquette, and from the proposal itself.
Therefore making up her mind to satisfy her
cravings with a solitary walk, so soon as the
cool of evening had set in, she contented herself
with accompanying Ino on his departure

to the head of the stone staircase, down which
Betting was already tripping in light-hearted
good humour, bearing the traveller's bag.
She was still standing there, leaning absently
against the iron balustrade, when the girl returned,
and, according to the manners of her
country-women, paused to have a little
friendly conversation with her new lodger.
From her Detta learned without difficulty
many interesting facts — to wit, that the piano
was kept by her aunt, the Signora Scalchi ;
and that, beside the Maestro and herself,
there were three other visitors residing on
it, namely, two American ladies and their
maid.

"The Signora Mor-sees grand — very grand
maestosa," said Betting, extending her
arms, apparently to imply the vastness of the
lady's physical proportions. " The Signorina
is little, and light, and gay. We two are
friends, Oh ! ofreat friends. The aunt Scalchi
is cross, disagreeable — yes, detestable at
times." And Betting shrugged her pretty
shoulders with prodigious emphasis. " You
will hear her some day — she can scold,

All Dio mio ! with a tongue louder than the
clock at San Pietro. But I, I am always
good-tempered — I do not mid it ; I laugh.
Ah !." she said, suddenly changing her
theme, " but the young Signor that is just
gone is charming, is he not, Serena ? So handsome
and so kind, and with such sweet words
for everybody. And," she continued, fixing
her piercing black eyes with sudden penetration
upon her companion, " how he loves
you, Signorina ! Anybody blind of one
eye can see that. He cannot love in vain,
surely ? "

But here the conversation came to a sudden
conclusion, as Detta turned abruptly away
and re-entered the passage.

As she did so, a door at the end opened 5
and a flufTy golden head looked out.

Colazione, Betting ! e presto-prestissimo ! "

Subito, subito, signorina ! "

No, no, Betting ; e sempre subito ! Non
mi place il ' subito.' Dico ' prestissimo ! ' "

Betting shrugged her shoulders and ran
away laughing, whilst Miss Morse, perceiving
Detta for the first time, protruded her head a

little farther, the better to take a c^ood survey
of the new lodger. Her inspection appeared to
satisfy her. " Burn giorno," she remarked
graciously, just as Detta was turning in at the
Maestro's doorway.

Her salutation was returned politely
enough ; but a strong desire to laugh prevented
Detta from pausing to receive further
notice.

It was a strangely quiet day — that first day
spent in the sick man's room — monotonous,
but far from unpleasant. After her long
journey, the rest was not without its charities
for Benedetta ; and hour by hour passed
calmly by in the still, shaded room, as she
and the Maestro recalled unerringly the
incidents of former days, or related to each
other the experiences through which each had
passed since parting.

The blind musician was sufficiently recovered
from his sudden seizure to be able to
converse with pleasure ; he was almost free
from pain, and his young attendant began
already to hope that after a time he might
possibly be up and about again. Bernard

Cortauld smiled half-apologetically as she expressed
this hope in words.

I ought not to have asked you to
come all this distance. I thought I was
going to die," he remarked pathetically.
But in truth," he continued after a pause,
as he stretched out his feeble arm to feel
for the violin which lay beside him, "I
fancy there is not much of life or power
left in me. I shall be but a useless lost ;
and you, my child, will have a dreary
time of it if you stick by the old man.
Probably even," he said, in a trembling voice
as he drew his darling instrument closer to
him, stroking the strings with a loving touch,
my hands have lost their cunning. That
indeed would be worse than death ; but be it
as God wills."

No, oh no ! " cried Detta eagerly, " that
is not gone from you. You can still play, I
am sure. See, your fingers have still plenty
of power in them." For it made her heartache
to think of the old man bereft, in his
darkened solitude, of the one solace which to
him embodied all that was beautiful to eye

and ear and heart. "Play to me now," lie
added, " and convince yourself that it is
so."

But the nerveless hand had already relaxed
its grasp.

"No," he said, "not now. I haven't
strength as yet. But," and a smile crept
slowly over his features, " something tells
me that it may return. My fingers at least
are not paralysed ; and I thank God for
that."

The walk which Detta had promised
herself did not come off till after dart ;
for the heat of the sun was too intense to
admit of her going out before sunset ; and
then, by the Maestro's particular desire,
she requested Betting's attendance, and had
perforce to await the good pleasure of
that sprightly maiden, whose duties detained
her until a late hour, when all the
stars were out twinkling in the blue dome
that overspread the great city's intricate
ways

Betting appeared delighted with the company
of the signorina, and was a most voluble and

animated companion ; nevertheless Benedetta
found her attendance a little burdensome.
Her unceasing flow of conversation was somewhat
exhausting ; and she had an excessive
partiality for the neighbourhood of shops and
crowded streets, appearing unpleasantly surprised
when Benedetta expressed herself desirous
of seeking quieter and less frequented
paths.

At length, however, after an hour spent
in slowly elbowing their way through the
noisy and good-tempered crowds that filled
the Corso, and examining, \\ with a protracted
and minute scrutiny, the long line of jewel
shops which adorned that street, Benedetta
succeeded in drawing her companion out of
this fascinating vortex of life and fashion into
the romantic solitude of the Pincian Hill.
How perfect it would have been here save for
the ceaseless childish chatter. Detta laid her
arms upon the stone wall, and, leaning her
face upon them, drank in the beauty of the
great grey city spread mysteriously out before
her, whilst the stream of words which still
flowed from Betting's lips passed by her

unheard, like the sound of distant runnin^j-
water.

When at length they returned homewards
and made their way up the long
stone staircase and into the narrow passage,
the lights were out and everybody was 2fone
to bed — everybody, that is, except the
Signora Scalchi, who had kept herself up
for the pleasure of soundly rating her niece
Betting.

This rating, of which Benedetta was an
involuntary auditor, and which had for its
text the double fact of being out so late
and of wasting so much valuable time, was
not devoid of uncomplimentary reference to
the new Signorina, and strengthened the latter
in her determination to take her walks for the
future alone and at an early hour, if possible
soon after sunrise.

This resolution she carried into eiTect the
next morning sufficiently early to find time
for a good long stroll amongst her old haunts
before the strength of the sun drove her indoors.


She was returning from her expedition

when she came into contact with Miss Morse,
attired in ffors^eous dressing-gown and with
dishevelled hair, in the act of making her way
to her mother's sitting room.

The young American treated her with much
friendliness, and with a rush of Yankee-accentuated
Italian.

' E una bella matins,' " she remarked
laboriously. " ' Come sta, signorina ? ' "

' Benissimo,' " replied Benedetta. " But
we both talk English, do we not ? "

Good gracious me I " exclaimed Miss
Morse. " Why, Betting told me you were
Italian'*

So I am— half ."

And what's the other half ? "

Scotch ! " replied Detta, with equal
brevity.

You have come to look after that old man
in there, haven't you ? " enquired Miss Morse,
with a wave of her arm in the direction of the
Maestro's room. " Any relation ? "

"No," said Detta, unable to prevent herself
smiling at this catechism. " Only an old
friend and guardian."

Very sick, ain't he?"

Yes, he is very ill ; but he is getting better
now, I hope."

Ah ! well, I guess it ain't too lively for a
young girl like you to be sitting up there all
day with nobody to talk to but a blind old
man. Are you going to stop long .^ "

I can't say," replied Benedetta, unable to
take offence at the extremely good-natured
tone of her questioner. " Until he is better,
I suppose."

We go next week," remarked Miss Morse.
'' We came too late : and now it's too hot
to do anything. We are not afraid of a bifof
sun in New York. It can take the skin off a
man's face pretty quick there sometimes —
but we ain't quite salamanders, you know,
for all that ! "

Of course not," said Detta, beginning to
wish that her companion would move out of
the way, and allow her to pass on.

Well now," continued the other, " you'd
better come in and have a bit of dinner with
us this evening. Ma will be pleased to see
you, and I guess anyway it's better than sitting

moping in there so many hours. I guess
you are musical? Well then, we'll have
some singing. You'll come, will you, at eight ?
That's fixed."

And Miss Morse sailed on in her blue
dressing-gown, her streamers fluttering behind
her.

^

c,^^X>.

betting's love affairs.

rpHE second day was in all respects much
I the same as the first. Life at the top of
the old palazzo in these hot summer days was
still and soundless in the extreme ; scarcely a
footfall was heard along the passage, and the
distant roar that rose from the streets but
faintly penetrated within the closed shutters
of the old man's room.

As evening approached, Benedetta prepared
to pay her promised visit to her American
neighbours. Lights were already lit in the
neighbouring apartment, where, on tapping a
little timidly, Miss Morse herself opened the
door and drew her in with considerable
cordiality to be presented to her mother.
Mrs. Morse was indeed, as Betting had stated,
very great, very majestic — that is to say, she
VOL. II. . 28

was a person both tall and stout, largely
possessed of the characteristic termed
presence, and dignified to pomposity both in
speech and manner. Her colouring was as
lavish and unsparing as the proportions of her
person. She was a somewhat handsome
woman, with her scarlet cheeks and great
black eyes ; and eclipsed her fair little
daughter much in the same way that a
brilliant peony might extinguish the chaster
glories of a spring crocus. Her voice was
peculiar, being full and sonorous, with a
slight rattle in it, not unlike what one might
imagine would be the roar of a bull if forced
to issue through the spout of a kettle.

The dinner was pleasant enough, and Detta
got on well with her new friends. They were
neither refined nor polished ; but they were
people of talent, and full of kindliness.
Everything about them denoted comfort
without extravagance ; and they were evidently
persons of moderate income, and of the New
York middle class. There are Americans and
Americans. There is the quiet and cultivated
Bostonian, innocent almost to the least touch

of this national twang, apt to be somewhat
reticent and reserved ; there are the New
York millionaires, flashing with showy
vulgarity, outraging the very vanguard of
fashion, and surrounded by a cohort of uppish
ladies' maids and couriers ; and there are
again their quieter compatriots, people of
various degrees of birth and education, but of
limited means, who intend to gratify their desire
for travel in a modest and unostentatious
way. The Morses belonged to this latter
class — one of whose existence many Englishmen
and Englishwomen, frequenting only
fashionable resorts and monster hotels, have
scarcely even heard.

Mr. Morse had been by no means a gentleman,
but he had wisely understood the value
of education, and his daughter was an
accomplished girl. He had indeed held the
position of a pork butcher, which, in the city
of New York, where sucking-pigs and other
porcine dainties are usually at a premium,
secured him a handsome income, which
fortunate speculation had enabled him to
augment. It was during this golden period

28*

that Annie, as her mother called her, had
been sent to school in Paris, where she had
made great progress under her many and
various masters. National feeling was,
however, strong within her breast, and she
had returned home after several years'
absence, as perfect a little Yankee as the
day she quitted her native shore. All this,
however, happened some years ago.

Since then the pork butcher had left this
sphere for one from which pigs are, it is to be
hoped, excluded ; and Mrs. Morse, after duly
lamenting him for a couple of years or so,
made up her mind that her somewhat diminished
income was still sufficient to gratify
what is, as a rule, the prevailing ambition of
all Americans — and to permit her to pay a
visit to the Old World. This she and her
daughter had been doing for the past year and
a half ; and, having arrived somewhat too late
in the season at Eome, were consoling
themselves with the prospect of returning
thither for some months the following winter.

Most of this was communicated to Detta ina
surprisingly open and friendly manner by

lier new acquaintances, who appeared to have
taken a great fancy to her. Dinner over,
Miss Morse sat down to the piano, proving
herself no mean musician, singing and playing
alternately, and concluding with a duet in
which the deep tones of her mother's voice
came out with agreeable effect.

How well you play," remarked Detta, asher
young hostess turned round and vacated
the music stool ; " it is a treat to hear you."

"Well," said Miss Morse reflectively, "I
oaglit to. I calculate I've had as many
masters as there are weeks in the year. And
as for music — if you were to put all the pieces
together that I have learned since I was a
child, I guess they'd top the Tower of Babel.
But it's your turn now."

Though feeling a little nervous, Detta took
her place, and not a word was spoken by
mother or daughter, as, from memory, she
sang a simple Scotch ballad, the full, sweet
tones of her magnificent voice filling the
small room with a volume of sound which was
too well modulated to be overpowering.

At the conclusion of her song, however, she

found herself gently pushed back into her
seat.

"You'll just sit right down again," said
Miss Morse, '' and sing us two or three more.
I'll never care to hear myself sing again, now
I've heard you ! "

Detta complied without answering. The
words she had been singing vividly recalled
to her mind the last time they had been on
her lips, in the snug little drawing-room of
Mrs. Wilding's London apartments. She
had then been giving one Italian song after
another at Ino's desire, he turning over the
pages of her music with his usual silent wrapt
attention, when Beresford Conway, leaning
back in indolent posture on the sofa close by,
had interposed.

Come, Miss Campbell," he said, " you
show too much partiality for your native
land. Give us something that belongs to
Great Britain now" And then she had sung
this song, and his comment upon it had been :
You should always sing those simple airs.
Your voice is too true and pathetic for the
mere trills and rushes of operatic songs."

Well," said Miss Morse, when at length
she was allowed to rise and relinquish her
seat, " it's a real luxury, this is. You'll have
to come in here every night, I guess, and sing
to us, till we go."

'' And you to me," replied her visitor
smiling.

Signor Cortauld is also a great musician,
is he not ? " enquired the elder lady.

He was," said Detta. " I used to listen
to him entranced, as a child. He would play
by the hour, melody after melody, each more
exquisite than the last. I have never heard
music like it since."

His own compositions ? " enquired Mrs.
Morse.

I believe so. It is nearly seven years
since I heard him, but I shall never, never
forget it. He appears carried up into a new
world — a world of strange wonderful dreams,
expressed in harmonies one seems never to
have heard before. You go with him, and it
is just like visiting amongst the angels."

Detta had lost herself in one of her short
characteristic fits of enthusiasm. Her hands

moved in earnest gesture, her eyes glowed,
and she was evidently speaking more to herself
than to those around her. She started a
little when Miss Morse, who had been staring
at her with undisguised wonder, drew her
down to earth again with a practical remark :

"That's where you get your music from,
listening to that old man, ain't it ? "

"Perhaps," said Detta. "But, I think,
there are very few of my countrymen and
countrywomen who have not naturally some
sense of music."

the other one — the 3^oung one — is he
musical ? " enquired Miss Morse.

He loves to listen to it, like all Italians,"
replied Detta,

"He's an artist, ain't he?" continued the
young lady, whose forte certainly lay in her
craving for information — a craving which
even the extensive and varied gossip daily
supplied by Betting appeared insufficient to
satisfy.

He is a sculptor," returned Detta.
"And," she continued proudly, "will some
days be a great one, I have little doubt."

All ! " said Mrs. Morse, " lie looks a smart
young' man."

'• Why don't lie take this own bust ? " enquired
lier daughter, " It would do for a
model of Adonis." Here she turned her
bright and somewhat beady eyes with a
searching glance towards her companion.
Tell us now," she said persuasively, " he's
awful spoons on you, ain't he ? "

But Detta had risen.

It is growing very late," she said.
*' Signora Scalchi will scold me if I stop up
any longer."

You're not offended ? " asked Miss Morse.
I always speak out. Well, if you must go ;
but you'll come around tomorrow night and
give us another song ? "

The next few days passed not unpleasantly
Day by day the musician, with unexpected
vigour, rallied more and more, and ere the
week was over had risen from his bed, and
though comparatively feeble, and unable to
return to the duties in which, previous to his
seizure, he had been engaged, yet was able to
move about, to resume his beloved occupation,

and rather to enjoy cheerful society
than to require sick nursing. He was still
too weak to do more than move across the
long bare room. One side indeed was sofar
paralysed that he would probably never
again descend the long staircase of the
Palazzo Carborelli ; but this matter seemed
of little import to him so long as his fingers
could once more caress the strings of that
instrument which was the darling child of his
old age.

Hour by hour, as Benedetta reclined in the
window-seat, hoping to catch aii}^ stray waft
of fresher air that might mingle with the
scorching heat ascending from the town
below — where the stones of the piazzas burnt
the feet of the passers-by, and the houses on
either side of the narrow streets seemed to
give out a glow like the fumes of a live
furnace — the musician sat upright in his
chair, unconscious of time, heat, or fatigue,
soft, weird strains rising and falling upon the
breathless air, and his very heart seeming to
speak to the heart of the violin. At these
times he was unconscious of everything that

went on around him, and needed no company,
and Detta would creep in and out of the room
without notice. But afterwards, when exhaustion
compelled him to desist, and the
failing fingers would no longer fulfil their
appointed task, and paint in descriptive
symphonies the thoughts that continued to
surge through his brain, the old man would
fold his hands and lean wearily back, with a
look of unutterable sadness that went to the
girl's heart.

I am fit for nothing now," he would sav,
and never shall be again. I shall never
teach another pupil ; I shall never fill only
place again in the orchestra ; never take my
part at the opera. I do but cumber the earth ;
and you, my Piccola, are too young and fresh
and happy to be left alone with a miserable
old man."

Then it was Benedetta's time to soothe and
comfort her companion ; to talk to him of
the old days, and amuse him by childish reminiscences,
gently withdrawing him from
that profound melancholy which was but
too congenial a companion to the sensitive

mind of the blind musician. And when
she succeeded, and the smile returned to
the worn face, and cheerfulness to his
tones, she felt that she was in part repaying
the debt of that ungrudging tenderness
which had been lavished upon her in her
childhood.

She saw a good deal of her neighbours the
Morses. Both mother and daughter were unaffectedly
kind and cordial to her. Almost
every day they drew her into their rooms on
some pretext or other. There was much
sympathy between Miss Morse and herself on
some points.

The young American was devoted to
art as well as music, and once or twice
persuaded Detta, when the sun was less
baking than usual, to accompany her to some
picture gallery or some museum of sculpture,
where the acuteness of her remarks and the
general knowledge she displayed, excited the
admiration of her companion. Anastasia
Morse was in fact no ordinary girl, although
deficient ii: the polish to which Detta had
been accustomed among her English friends ;

and when, after a short time, lie and her
mother departed, there was sincere regret on
both sides.

Good-bye, good-bye ! " said Miss Morse,
kissing her affectionately on both cheeks.
I've never seen any girl I like so well as yon
since I left New York. We shall be back in
November ; and then we'll have no end of
good times, if you are here still."

And Benedetta returned to her little room
in the empty flat, feeling it somewhat drear
and silent.

In those fierce summer days, the old
Palazzo seemed like a living tomb ; the
heat grew more and more intense, the trees
withered in the courtyard, the haze that hung
about the city seemed made of molten brass ;
the Maestro lay back wearily in his chair,
forgetful even of his instrument until the
evening, and Signorina Scalchi herself forbore
to scold with her usual vehemence, and melted
into a half-fretful querulousness. As for Detta,
she crept about more and more languidly,
scarcely able to breathe, and feeling it too
great a trouble to move ; her cheeks growing

paler day by day, and lier steps more
dragging.

It was indeed a terribly hot summer even
for Eome, and unhealthy above the average ;
and iL was probably to the fact of her Eoman
extraction, that the girl owed her immunity
from the fever daily extending its ravages
amongst those few foreign residents whom
poverty or circumstances prevented moving
to a cooler spot.

Betting was the only one unaffected by the
weather. Betting was always healthy, always
bright, always busy ; she danced about as
nimbly, and sang her Tuscan songs as gaily,
when the thermometer was at a hundred in
the shade, when the parched earth cracked
and started beneath the piercing rays of a
tropical sun, when the half-naked beggar
boss lay all day, face downwards, on the steps
of the Trinity del Month, when the very dogs
crept beneath the houses into patches of shade
a few inches square — with the same alacrity,
the same light-heartedness and the same
insouciance, as if it were still the sweet springtime
with the soft cool wind blowing over

Campagna steppes, and the flowers bursting
out of every crevice in the ruined palaces of
the Caesar.

She was the only one who noticed Bene-delta's
pallor and increasing lassitude. The
old man who loved her had no eyes to perceive
any change in her appearance ; and
when in his company, she always roused
herself to speak with her habitual cheerfulness.


You should go out more, Signorina,"
exclaimed the handmaiden, running in to
Benedetta's room early one Sunday morning.
Look, I have been to Mass, and I
have got two bouquets. Which will you
have ? " And she held up a crimson and a
white amelia. " The white one ? There, I
will fasten it in your hair for you. Now you
look beautiful — far too beautiful to sit
moping here all day ! Come out, come out ;
it is not yet too hot, and all the people are
streaming from the churches, and the piazzas
look so gay. It will do you good."

For Betting had a warm heart, and had
conceived a strong affection for her young

companion. But Benedetta felt the sun to be
too oppressive to venture forth, and turned
the conversation.

Who gave you these, Betting ? " she
asked.

Two of my lovers, signorina," replied the
Italian girl promptly.

Two ? Oh, fie, Betting, to have two at a
time ! "

Santa Maria ! There are a dozen at least !
How can I help it — I, who am a pretty
girl ? Look, this one is Guiseppe's, and that
is Giacomo's ; you have chosen Giacomo's.
Giacomo gave me his going into church.
You will wear this for my sake, signorina
Betting,' said he ; ' I will make you my
little ^posa some day.' But Guiseppe met me
with the other coming out. ' I've a flower
for you, Betting,' said he ; ' but as I see you
have already a bouquet from someone else, I
will give it to another girl.' ' What then ? '
said I ; ' may not the young signorina that
lodges in my house give me a camellia from
the vase that stands upon the table ? ' (For
Guiseppe is handsome and agreeable, signorina,

and one does not want to vex him.)
Altro,' says he, ' if that is the case, and the
signorina gave it to you, you shall have mine
as well. For you are my sweetheart, Betting.' "
And Betting's eyes gleamed with sparkling
fun as she laughed long and merrily over this
recital of the morning's amatory episodes.

"But, Betting," said Detta, taking a friendly
interest in these complex love affairs ; " which
do you really care for ? You cannot marry
both, you know."

Betting tossed her head with pretty scorn
and laughed again.

"Guiseppe is cross," she said, "and morose.
I do not like him ; but I do not make him
angry, because I am afraid of him. Giacomo
is agreeable, so I do not vex him because he
pleases me. But there ! I know the men ; I
am not one to marry. They may all come
after me, but I will have none of them —
neither Guiseppe, nor Giacomo, nor anyone
else."

"Why, Betting?" asked Detta, smiling.
What makes you think so ill of matrimony
? "

VOL. II. 29

All ! " said Betting, shaking lier head
sagely, " I know better. Signorina," she
continued more earnestly, " I have had many
friends married — bright, gay young girls like
me — now, in a few years, they are haggard,
miserable old women. I know what the men
are like, and what the Homan husbands are —
a few kind words, and a day or two of petting
and flattery — and then off to the lottery
to waste all their earnings, to spend their
nights in riot and dissipation, only coming
home to house the poor wretched wife. No,
signorina ; marriage is all very well for ladies
and gentlemen, and there are plenty of
foolish, ignorant girls in my rank of life
ready to run their neck into the noose — but
/ know better — I have had experience. I
just play with the men, and it amuses them
and me ; but, so soon as they begin to speak

of the priest and the wedding ring, then "

and she snapped her slight, brown fingers,
I am off like a bird, and they don't see me
again till they have recovered their senses ! "

From which it will be seen that Betting,
although a liorht-hearted and somewhat lightheaded

young woman, was not without a
touch of native shrewdness, and hell firmly
to her own epicurean philosophy upon some
matters.

It had not taken lonsf for the Tuscan

o

maiden to acquaint herself with the fact that
in no way could she please the signorina
better than by bringing her a letter with a
foreign post-mark. The post-bag at the
Palazzo was nothing more nor less than a
bucket. This bucket, morning and evening,
was lowered by means of a cord from the
highest storey into the hall below, the letters
being deposited therein, when it was drawn
up again, thus sparing the postman the toilsome
ascent of the seventy steps. The
postman was, however, one of Betting's many
admirers ; and love scorns fatigue, even
under a temperature of 90 degrees in the
shade.

One morning, Betting ran in laughing
gaily as she flung a letter into Detta's lap.

''Ah! the men, the men I" she exclaimed,
how foolish they are I and how soft, until they
have caught their bird! This idiot of a

29*

Paolo ! He comes toiling up the staircase with
his letters this morning instead of waiting
for the bucket ; 'It is to wish you good
morning,' he says to me. ' You have the
prettiest face in all Eome, Signorina Betting,'
says he. ' And you have come from the
bottom to tell me nothing newer than that ? '
said I, to tease him. ' Wh)^, I have often
heard that before, Paolo Brill ! ' ' Ah,
Sapristi ! ' says he, looking crest-fallen,
others have said it from the lips, but I
say it from the heart, carina. I have brought
3'ou a ribbon to wear at the festa next Thursday.
You wall put it round your neck and
think of me, wall sou not, mia bella ? "

And without waiting for a reply to her
anecdote, Betting ran out of the room again,
while Detta proceeded to open her letter.
Prom Eva, of course. Eveleen and her
mother where her sole correspondents. Since
her departure, she had never received one
line from Lady Dumbarton — not even in
response to a pleading little epistle she had
sent a few days after her arrival in Eome.
This complete estrangement grieved Detta,

who was not without love for her stern
Scotch kinswoman. She had written a^'ain a
few weeks later, telling the details of her daily
life, enquiring anxiously after her aunt's
health, and adding at the end a humbly-worded
little petition for forgiveness and
restoration to the old affection. This letter,
too, had remained unanswered ; convincing
the girl of the impossibility of moving a
resolution once taken by Lady Dumbarton,
or of smoothing down the hard eds^es of her
prejudices.

Eveleen's letter was of much the same
description as usual. Her marriage appeared
entirely to have fulfilled its promise of
happiness ; and happiness upon a character
like Eva's, had an effect at once softening and
elevating.

Her husband was devoted to her ; and this
devotion, instead of rendering Ler selfish,
seemed to enlarge her sympathies towards all
the world, and increase her affection for those
she had before loved. Hers had been a
cramped nature, twisted by circumstances
out of its natural course ; now it expanded

itself unchecked in the wholesome atmosphere
of a congenial marriage.

A lahore portion of her letter was of course
given up to the discussion of this domestic
felicity, and of the perfections of the man to
Avhom a blissful fate had united her ; also to
the expression of that desire commonly felt
by the bride towards her unmarried friends,
that a happiness in some degree parallel,
and a husband — (not of course equal to
their own, but in some faint degree after
the same pattern) — might some day fall to
Detta's share. But a corner of it was, as
usual, devoted to the honourable mention
of her cousin Beresford Conway. Beresford
had been so vers very kind, so generous,
as he always was ; there was no one like
him in the world (except, of course, Arthur).
lie had insisted upon making Mrs. Wilding
change places with him as regarded the house
which had been lent him rent-free. He
and his father had come to some understanding
on the matter (though no one
could guess how, for old Lord Courthope
was such a screw, the only wonder was

that lie liacl not allowed Beresford to break
stones upon the liigli road !) and Mrs.
Wilding was already gone thither to take
up lier permanent abode. Eva was afraid
that Beresford had been rash. No one
could possibly blame him for what had
occurred ; and her mother knew how more
than ready, how anxious, she and Arthur
were to welcome her in their own little
home. Bat Beresford declared the place
would not suit him ; English country life
without horses or hunting would be the
death of him ; he would fid far more
amusement and far less ennui up in the
wilds of Ireland, where shooting and fishing
were to be had with little trouble, a rough
pony answered all the demands of social life,
and the chance of a breeze with the
tenantry lent the necessary spice of excitement.
If his father would give him the
Irish agency, he would do very well. " And,"
added Eva with a little touch of sententious
morality quite new from her, and which
brought a smile to her cousin's lips, "no
doubt he is right, and has chosen for the

best. He will be a shooting star of the
first magnitude lost on the horizon of the
fashionable world ; but, with useful work
to do, he will be a happier man, because a
better and manlier one." After this little
flourish of her moral trumpet, Eva returned
to gossip, and to many kindly questions
respecting her cousin's life and welfare.
When are you returning home ? " she asked.
We all long to see you again ; but I daresay
Eome is too bewitching, and the Maestro
too engrossing, to allow you to come back
as yet. I suppose the Maestro is well off,
and that you have everything ^^ou want? I
think that sort of Bohemian life must be
jolly, and I should fancy you had rather a
talent for it. It must have been very dull
at first while the poor old man was so ill
and feeble, but now that he is up and
about again I daresay you have plenty of
fun. I can fancy you, prim, solemn, little
Detta, sitting surrounded by a lot of his
musical friends, receiving their homage
gravely, and all your soul in your eyes as
you listen to their plashing. W^liat delicious

concerts sou must have ! But don't go and
lose sour heart, little one, to one of those
swarthy-browed, black-eyed, velveteen-dressed
musicians — (you see I know what they are
like) — it is too precious for that. You must
keep it for some true-hearted, fair-faced
Englishman, who will bring you to live
near us in your father's country"

Benedetta's eyes wore an amused expression
as she laid her letter down. How little her
cousin knew of the circumstances of her life,
when she drew these pictures of the nightly
concerts, and of the Maestro's circle of
swarthy-browed friends ! How astonished
would she have been had she known that, since
her arrival, but one friend had sought out the
old man in his lofty apartment, and that one
little likely to disturb her repose of mind,
either by his Bohemian fascinations, or by
his proffered homage — a man older than the
Maestro, with bent figure, snowy hair and
beard— one who, since the Maestro's retirement,
had been first violin in the company to
which Bernard Cortauld had belonged. This
was indeed, perhaps, the only intimate friend

possessed by the latter in all the width and
breath of the great city. Singularly taciturn
and reserved as he had always been, he was
not a man to make friends easily or lightly.
His 'natural generosity and goodness of disposition
had indeed more than once in bygone
years evoked a grateful love in the heart
of some poor struggling toiler for daily bread ;
but the secluded life consequent upon his age
and physical infirmity had of late put a stop to
any new intimacies, while all those with whom
in younger days he had held familiar relations,
seemed now by death or circumstances
to be taken from him. There were but two
persons living in whom he could be said to
have any deep interest, Eafaelino Bartolucci,
and the m.v\ who to him was still " Piccola."
One of these was removed by absence, but
the other had been brought by a merciful
providence to cheer his declining years, and
to sit beside him in a lingering twilight ; to
renew his faded memories of a beautiful and
glorious world ; and, with her soft hand upon
his withered fingers and her smooth cheek
]pressed against his haggard face, to chase

away the oft-returning demon of despondency
Compared to these two, the Signor Moroni,
kind old friend though he were, was but an
acquaintance of yesterday.

For a moment Detta pondered over that
other remark of Eveleen's " When was she
returning to England ? " Ah 1 when ? Pictures
of soft, delicious English summers, such
as she had known, rose before her ; when the
nights were refreshing and the days exquisite ;
when the green boughs waved freshly in the
scented breeze, and the scorched flowers
gazed up without flinching to the noon-da v
sun ; days when she and Eveleen sat out in
the shade, working: all morning?, and in the
evenings strolled about through the dewy
coolness of the darkening lanes. How different
from the dreary parching heat of this
Eoman summer, where the very grass
withered down upon its stems, turning black
in its despair before it died ; where the very
wind that blew brought only added discomfort
in its hot Sirocco breath, and where the
waters of the Tiber rolled sluggishly and slow,
like half coagulated oil ! But from that

seductive picture Detta resolutely turned
away. Lie dared not look and long. No !
here she would remain. What ray of light
would penetrate the heavy darkness encompassing
the old man's daily path were she to
desert him now? To consequences, to the
future, she must shut her eyes. God would
provide. Sufficient for her was it to know
her duty in the present.

A FAITHFUL HEART.

rpHE hot summer months passed away, July
X into August and August into September,
without many events of consequence to mark
their passage in the quiet Use at the top of the
old Palazzo. Only one or two incidents had
occurred which in any way affected Dethrone
was the departure of Betting for her
home near Pistoia. The Tuscan girl was of
an affectionate nature, and was sincerely sorry
to say good-bye to the young signorina whose
age was so near her own. and whose solitary
and monotonous life, according to her views,
must be so terribly dull and unsatisfying.

It will be worse for you when 1 am gone,"
she said, as she came in to make her farewells.
Not a soul to speak to except the poor sick
signor, and the Aunt Scalchi with her cross
looks. Ah ! Dio mio ! fancy being shut up

all alone with a blind vaccliio and a nasty
termagant ! "

Yes," said Detta, " I shall miss yon mncli,
Betting. Yon are always so bright. Are yon
glad to go ? "

Bnt, yes, signorina, of course I am glad.
Who would not be glad to leave this furnace
of a town, and an old woman's scolding, and
get back to my beautiful country home ?
Ah ! there are my father and mother, and the
little ones, and the Bimbo ; and," she added,
her face dimpling (Was it with the memory of
past or the thought of future conquest) ? " all
my cousins — Giulio, and Carlo, and Tito.
And when the work is over in the evening we
all sit out under the vines in the o-arden, and
talk and laugh, and the moon and the stars
come peeping through the trellis-work overhead,
and Tito sings a song, and we are all so
happy. Ah ! signorina, how I wish you could
be there too. I shall often, often think of
you," she finished, raising Benedetta's hand to
her lips and kissing it repeatedly.

You are a i?ood 2'irl, Betting," said Detta.
Shall you never come back again ? "

"All! si, signorina, perhaps. I hope so.
When the autumn comes on and Aunt Scalchi
has her rooms full, then she will send for me
aofain most likely : and I shall be salad to come,
for your sake. Adieu, dear, dear signorina."

After Betting's departure the Palazzo
seemed more silent than ever, and Signora
Scalchi's flat a perfect tomb. And, in their
absolutely eventless life, stirred by no breath
of the outside world, nor by anything more
exciting than an occasional English letter
or an evening call from old Maroni, the
diversion of an unexpected visit from Vino
was doubly welcome to both Cortauld anTi
his companion. The young man had suddenly
found himself able to obtain two days' leave of
absence, and had rushed off forthwith to
spend them in his old home. Hard work
and oppressive days took little effect upon
Eafaelino. He seemed wonderfully happy in
his love of his profession, his mind was full of
ambition, and growing success had brought a
new light to his eye and a new dignity to his
manner. Not that the young sculptor was in
any way spoiled or rendered conceited by his

late triumphs. He was simple as ever, and
perhaps more genial than before.

But he was beginning to reap the reward of
his devotion to art, in that entire contentment
which is so rarely the fruit of the other
pursuits which chiefly engage men's attention
— namely, love or pleasure, commerce or
money-making. Day by day Eafaeiino, flung
by his profession into a mixed society, and
yet absorbed by the most perfect ideals and
the highest vein of thought, became at once a
better man of the world and a truer artist.

But the feelings he entertained for Benedetta
had changed no whit. To sit in the same
room with her was to him an almost sufficient
happiness ; the simple meals they shared
were glorified into Olympian repasts of
nectar and ambrosia ; whilst if he walked
beside her, the stony ways of old Eome
became to him the golden streets of
Paradise !

He had but just competed for and won the
distinction of executing some monuments
to be placed in a public garden near
Florence. This honour had been earned

over many names longer known and more
celebrated than this own ; and the triumph
had not been small.

Yet for the sake of a smile from Detta
not such a smile as she i^fave him now
masked and unwittingly, frank as a
friend's and affectionate as a sister's — but
the sh}^ responsive smile of one who
knew and reciprocated his love — for the
sake of such a smile, the young sculptor,
dear as was his art to him and perseveringly
as he had toiled to reach its heights,
would have sacrificed ambition, position
and success. It was one of the peculiarities
of his nature that he did not shrink from
acknowledging this fact to himself, and regarded
his love, though rejected, rather asa
thing to be proud of, than as something
to be crushed down and hidden away like
an evil disgrace, in the dark and unvisited
corners of memory.

If Benedetta could not love him — if this

ideal of his fancy, his passion, and his

hope could find in herself no responsive echo,

however faint, to the feelings with which he

VOL. II. 30

regarded her, lie was alas ! to be pitied, but
she not blamed. Nay, perhaps all the more
for the maidenly coldness which refused to be
touched, was she fit to be enshrined with
every precious jewel of reverence, and set
upon her pedestal high up amongst the
angels, like another fair Beatrice, worshipped
by the dream of the poet, and untarnished
by earthly possession.

But, vain though his instinct told him was
the attempt, the young man could not find it
in his heart to leave Eome without once again
convincing himself from her own lips of her
indifference.

Very gently, almost timidly he spoke, on
returning home from an evening stroll
the night before he left, the very tone
of his voice making Benedetta's task easier
and yet harder to perform — easier, inasmuch
as it told her how little hope he had, and
harder, from its very humility.

Her reply was very sorrowful. Her dear
brother Ino, her kind and loyal companion,
the friend of whom she was so proud — why
must he seek to be anything more ? And yet,

low .sincerely lie loved him ! But, even
while she was for a moment hesitating,
listening sadly to his tender words, and debating
within herself as to whether, by this
repeated rejection of a love so strong, so
faithful, and so unselfish, she was not doing a
wrong to both herself and him — one of those
instincts which so often rise to guide us in
moments of doubt and danger, and which are
so entirely irrespective of the slower course of
reasoning, swept across her mind and spoke
out in words.

She was not cold ; something within her
told her that the same fire, although dormant,
lay within her breast ; but not to bestirred
into flame by the pleadings of her
old friend and playmate.

And was it a suspicion the next momenta
dread, or a newly awakened joy, which
brought the sudden colour to her cheeks, and
the soft light to her eyes, as for an instant
Eafaelino's earnest face and eager words faded
in another swift, brief vision of the past
What a selfish thing is dawning love as a
rule, even in the gentlest and most generous

30*

heart ! How much it bleeds for itself, and
low little for others ; and how small
account it takes of the wounded susceptibilities,
maybe the broken hearts, over
which it steps so carelessly and hastily on
the way to its own goal !

Ino's love was not of this nature ; it was of
that nobler kind, perhaps rarely met with
save among men of poetic temperament, in
which the lover is content to obliterate himself
for the sake of her he loves, and to resign
himself even to rejection sooner than to a
happiness which may mean the less full
and perfect development of life to her.

Yet never was rejection put more tenderly,
affection speak more sincerely from the eyes
of any woman than they did from those of
Benedetta Campbell ; and Ino returned to his
work at Florence touched rather than
wounded ; loving the girl, if possible, more
deeply and reverently than ever, and with
her words of soothing flattery still lingering
in his ears.

I wish," said the Maestro, the evening
after his departure, " that Ino had been able

to stay a little longer. It is very dull for
you, my Piccola, alone with me."

I am very happy, dear Maestro, now that
the weather is cooler and one can sleep at
nights."

Ah ! but it is drear for a young thing
like you, now everyone is gone. It would be
different if he were always here."

He is a dear good fellow," said Detta.
We both miss him ; do we not, Maestro ? "

He has been like a son to me," said the
old man. " And you, my Piccola, are as my
daughter. I had hoped — but now, I do not
know — " he paused and passed his hand
wearily across his brow.

Maestro mio," she said, " the sky is so
glorious — bars of gold standing out against
great masses of black and purple mountains ;
I think we shall have a storm to-night."

Perhaps," he replied absently, his
thoughts evidently still following their owi'
train. "It is strange," he murmured half to
himself, and speaking aloud his inner reflections
after a habit common with the blind
-— " I could not be deceived ; I know the

sound of his voice so well. Piccola, my
child," and his hand sought hers, " I know
he loves you. And you — can sou not return
his love ? "

I love him dearly, very dearly. Maestro ;
but not in that way. How I wish I could !
it would make you happy too, dear, as well
as him."

It would have made me very happy."

I hate myself ! " said poor Detta with a
burst of remorse.

"Nay, it is not your fault, child, if you
cannot. But it is strange ; for they tell me
Ino's face is as beautiful as I know his heart to
be noble."

He is everything," she said, " both in
appearance and character that any woman
could wish for. Oh ! Maestro, I am foolish ;
J deserve blame. But he is only a dear
brother to me."

Well, well," said Cortauld sadly, " it can't
be helped. Do not grieve about it, little one.
It would have been a great joy to me to have
seen my two children made one ; but God
knows we cannot always dispose circumstances

in this life to our fallc^^ Perhaps iii England
there is someone "

No, 0, nO' ! " exclaimed Detta with unnecessary
haste, and a burning blush unseen
by her companion.

You must go back to your friends in
England soon, my Piccola ; this is not a fit
place for one so young as you. The burden
and melancholy of old age should not be
thrust upon the shoulders of youth. Loneliness
and poverty — loneliness and poverty — "
he muttered sadly to himself.

I am not going to leave you, Maestro !
Do you want to get rid of me ? I shall stay
with you until you are much better — so long
as I am any comfort to you."

'' I shall never be any better, Benedetta ; I
shall never walk throuij^h the streets of Eome
again, and hear the sound of the dripping
fountains, or the band playing on the Pincian
Hill — never again breathe the sweet campagna
air. I shall never leave this room
until I am carried out of it. But you, my
chid, you must not drag your life on here
alone ; you must go back and be gay once

mere in England. What do a few montis of
solitude, more or less, matter to an old man
with one foot already in the grave ? But, if
it should have pleased God that it could be
otherwise, and that you should have loved
Ino — " Detta drew her little stool nearer,
and flinging her arm about him, laid her head
upon his knees.

You are sad to-night. Maestro," she said
softly ; " chase away the evil spirit ! I will
never leave you, and you need not fear forme.
When winter comes there will be plenty
of life and change about us. And Vino
himself will be returning soon after Christmas,
so he says."

Ah I " said the old man, only half heeding
lier words, " it is a sad world ; how few things
go straight in it ! You are good, and Ino is
good ; you are both young and beautiful and
seem made for each other. But, so it is.
You will probably each of you marry someone
far less worthy of you. What you are to
him, Piccola," he went on dreamily, " such
was your mother once to me. I loved her
dearly — most tenderly ; but to her I was an

old man and unattractive. It was natural she
.should prefer your father. There was no
rivalry, ah, no ! I doubt if your father even
knew I loved her. I never spoke to him
about it. He was so generous that the
thought of possessing anything I had once
wished to gain would have been painful to
him. These thing's are bitter to a man at the
time, but Time is the great healer ; and the
day comes when one can speak of it as I do
to you now, without trouble — when it seems
to one more as some dream vision, or the
story of another life, than as something which
has been really part of the wear and tear of
one's own existence."

Benedetta did not speak ; she only gently
caressed the hand which lay upon his knee.
The story she had just heard was new to her,
and she was not unmoved by it. She made
no comment however ; feeling only another
bond of union between herself and her old
guardian.

And presently the Maestro — as he usually
did when anything had occurred to trouble
him — stretched out his hand for the violin

wliicli was never far away, and began playing
softly, with a lino^erino^ tender touch, such
as a mother mio-ht use in stroking the little
downy rings of hair upon the forehead of her
babe.

Since to me'' he said after awhile. And
Detta's voice rose and fell amidst the
lengthening shadows of the long room, the
violin wailing an accompaniment, that sometimes
followed her strong notes almost inaudibly,
and sometimes swelled into a duet of
passionate force, seeming to contend for the
mastery of each note with the human organ.

^^^'-^iF-^-^-^^

DO I LOVE HIM r

September was now drawing to a close,
and the unusually severe heat showed
siofns of abated[. A few showers had fallen
upon the parched and weary ground, the
fever was dying out, and it was possible for
the inhabitants to stir abroad at noonday
without imminent risk of sunstroke. Bene-delta
was beginning to disregard the thermometer,
or to grow hardened to its excesses.
Her principal enjoyment now, was in the
solitary walks which day by day grew longer,
and which she extended in every direction
about the city. Often, as she wandered down
the Via Appian, looking out across the swelling
Campagna towards Albano, she recalled
the childish rambles years ago, when she and
Ino had been used to clamber up to the top

of that broken tomb, sitting there to watch
the sunset, whilst he pointed out to her the
windows of the distant houses shining Kettle
sparks of lire ; or, sauntering past the
Coliseum, between shady walls and beyond
the custom house, bethought herself how
often she had laughed to see the soldiers,
intent upon the discovery of forbidden
wares, plunging their weapons into the
various contents of the many passing carts —
the dark-e3^ed, red-kerchiefed contains not
relaxing one lazy muscle, and barely unbuttoning
the corners of his sleepy e3^es, ashe
lay stretched out full-length above the
shafts, his shady hat well pressed down upon
his brows.

At other time she would stroll into the
picture-galleries or museums, and roundabout
the crumbling ruins, devouring with
silent delight the grand poetic beauty of
these noble forms ; going home to talk softly
over what she had seen in the dim chamber
of the Maestro, and, then lying down in her
little bed in the room opposite, to re-build in
her dreams the lines of architectural grandeur,

or the misty shapes of the old, tender, half
mythological heroes and heroines. Or again,
in the early mornings or cooler evenings,
she would creep quietly through the closed
leather curtain (shutting heat and sunlight,
noise and the world out of some vast old
church), kneeling perhaps for a few minutes
by some simple peasant-woman at a quiet
side altar, or sitting' down in the shade of a
lofty pillar to listen to the strains of the
Dominican chants that came from strong,
manly voices behind the screen. A solemn
scene was being enacted one morning,
as she turned and made her way into one
of these ; attracted within by the sounds
which penetrated even through the leather
hangings and the court-yard before the porch
out into the open street, and by the sight of
the huge black velvet draperies spread allover
the outside wall and falling on each side
of the entrance door. She pushed aside the
curtain and went in. A requiem mass was
being performed for some great person lately
dead ; and the church was filling fast, the
mourners of the deceased having a special

area set apart for them, corded off in the
centre aisle ; whilst a crowd of curious
spectators were pushing their way nearer
and nearer to the high altar at the extremity.
This was hung with voluminous black gauze,
and illuminated by scores of huge candles,
which also surrounded the velvet and wreath-covered
bier placed in the centre. The singing
was characterised by the pathos and
beauty usual on such occasions, and Bene-delta
paused just within, finding herself, however,
pushed gradually further and further up
the building by the in-coming crowds, until she
was more t)mn half way up the aisle, and escape
was no longer possible. This was no particular
source of regret to her. She loved
the picturesque and gorgeous magnificence
of the Romish ritual, the imposing monotony
of its chants, and the poetic beauty of its
processions, with all the fervour and appreciation
of an artistic nature ; and now, as
she stood there, silently and reverently, not
far from from one of the great white marble
pillars, her little market-basket in her hand,
dressed in simple grey, with the black lace

veil which she usually wore instead of a hat
falling over her dark hair and large Italian
eyes, few but would have taken her for a
native of the Eternal City pur-sang, or dreamt
that, by birth and education, she was more
than half an English woman.

o

She had been there some minutes, when,
happening to give a glance around her, her
eye was caught and arrested by a sight
common enough in the winter and early
spring, but somewhat unusual at this time
of the year. This was nothing more nor less
than the back of an Englishman. J^ow it is
absolutely impossible for an intelligent person
to feel any more doubt about the nationality
of an English back than of an English face.
It might be possible to confuse that of a
Spaniard and Italian, or even, more rarely,
that of a Frenchman and Italian ; but there
is something about the back of an Englishman's
neck, even more than the cut of his
coat, which, whether it be for good or evil,
has an unmistakeable type of its own. I am
speaking, of course, of Englishmen who cut
their hair and their clothes according to the

CD

English pattern. A hybrid Bohemian, who
has lived long abroad and adopted the
manners and customs of his neighbours —
such as the velvet collar and the long hair,
lanky and straggling, or bushy and curling —
disproves the theory no more than a
degenerate, dipped poodle invalidates the
fact that all real poodles are clean shaven.

A good many of this but half national,
hybrid sort of Englishmen — men who made
their home in Eome and rarely left it summer
or winter — were said to be seen about the
town, and might have made their way into
the crowded church ; but an unmistakeable
tourist, such as this appeared to be, was more
of a vara avis at the end of September. This
niis^ht have accounted for the fact that Bene-delta's
eyes, having once caught sight of the
tall, athletic figure, remained rooted thereupon
with pardonable interest ; but it would
scarcely have accounted for the sudden fl rush
which rose to her cheeks, and the look of
startled, half-pleased enquiry expressed upon
her face. In another moment her doubts
were set at rest. The tall figure veered

round, and making its way, quietly but
persistently, towards the upper end of the
building, came to a standstill a little below
but nearly opposite to herself. There was
no mistake now ; and Benedetta drooped
her eyes suddenly, wondering what could
have brought him here — if he would see
her, and if so, when ?

Meanwhile, Beresford Conway, to whom
the Latin chanting was not very harmonious
nor very attractive, and whose behaviour,
though characterised by perfect propriety,
still intimated that the whole thing was
to him nothing more than a gorgeous
show, one of the scenic representations of
a continental city, leant back against the
marble pillar, his travelling-cap in his hand,
taking free note of the building, its
decorations, and the concourse which
filled it.

His gaze had already wandered several
times, uniting, over the spot where Detta
stood.

Her dress and appearance were so completely
those of one of the people —

VOL II 31

superior and refined, but still one of them
that his quick eye might probably have
altogether missed seeing her had she not
suddenly raised her head for a moment.
She was taller than the women that surrounded
her ; and the slim, slight figure
with the pale upraised face suddenly
caught his glance, and their eyes met.
There was no mistaking the look of satisfaction
on Conway's countenance at the
discovery ; it is to be feared he even
visibly smiled and nodded, and made a
frantic though unavailing attempt to pierce
the close ranks of those around him in order
to approach her neighbourhood. It was
quite impossible, however ; and he had to
remain where he was, contenting himself
with the refreshing sight of the sweet,
blushing face, and the long dark lashes
which so provokingly hid eyes which,
having once encountered his, refused to
commit that imprudence a second time.
Yet she looked pleased — a sudden light
had dawned upon her face, an expression
of shy joy at sight of him, which showed

at any rate that this unexpected advent was
not disagreeable to her.

Coukl it be possible that now, just when
circumstances had made the thing which
he desired impossible, she herself had come
to regard that desire in a different liofht
perhaps even shared it ?

It was a long' time before Benedetta raised
her eyes.

She felt unaccountably shy — angry with
herself for the hot colour which burnt upon
hier cheeks, astonished at herself for the
happy tumult of excitement which filled,
heart and brain. The loud, dismal chanting
echoed on unheard, and she dared not
look up ; for, in all that vast crowd, one
face seemed to stand out before her with
overwhelming clearness, the face that she
knew, although she could not see, was
turned towards hers from the first moment
of recognition.

Would he meet her as they went out ?
Would he walk home with her ? What
would he say to her ? Why had he
come to Eome now when nobody came ?

31*

The music swelled on, and the procession,
with its line of white and scarlet figures
bearing the lofty candlesticks and the
swinging censers, passed round and round.
She did not notice them much ; she was
wondering dien the service would be over.
It might have been a few minutes, it might
have been half-an-hour, she did not know —
when suddenly she was aroused from her
dreams by a sudden shriek, a sudden rush,
an awful wave of (error which had reached
and infected her before she even saw the
cause.

How had it happened ? Had one of the
boys slipped and fallen ? Had it been a
gust of wind, or mere carelessness in the
holdings of one of the f?reat blazing? candles ?
The black gauze curtains were alight, and
the flame was already leaping up towards
the roof.

In one second all was horror and confusion
— the hoarse voices of terrified menthe
shrieks of frantic women, as the great
living weave came pressing, pouring down
from the east end, fighting its way towards

the entrance doors at the bottom of the
church.

Detta had no power to resist the
moving throng, she was already being
carried onward, almost off her feet, a
terrible dread in her heart — not so much
of the flames as of this great human
weight pressing life and breath and power
out of her.

Her presence of mind was leaving her — she
was but a slim, weak girl, and she felt an
appalling certainty that in another few
moments her feeble powers of resistance
would give way, she should lose consciousness,
and get knocked down and trampled
upon by the half-maddened crowd. At this
moment a voice fell upon her ear, the
clear, calm, high tones of an English
voice, sounding strangely distinct above the
general uproar.

Detta," it said, " cling to that pillar. Yuu
will be pushed against it in a moment. Hold
on till I reach you."

The words seemed to give her new life and
courage — he was coming to her assistance !

She raised her ej^es to discover the pillar, and
with a desperate effort, as the crowd swept
past, caught it with both arms, and clung to
the marble with the energy of desperation.
What an acre it seemed whilst Beresford
Conway, with silent determination, made his
way towards her. It was no easy matter, as
mays be supposed, to cross the human current,
even though the girl's position allowed him to
drift a little with it in its downward course,
and had Mr. Conw^ay not been tall above the
average, strong and muscular, it is probable
he would not have succeeded in his purpose.
As it was, not only pushes, but blows — not
few or far between — fell upon him from the
infuriated and terrified men and women whose
path he obstructed, whilst to Detta it seemed
as if she could surely never hold out until he
arrived to protect her from the cruel pressure
which bruised and crushed her on every side.
When at length he gained the spot the crowd
was already abating at this upper end of the
building ; but there was nevertheless sore
need of assistance for the half-fainting girL
With one arm Conw^ay supported her ; the

other was placed as an iron barrier to keep
off the crowd. It was a e^ood tliincf for
Beresford Conway on this occasion that he
had through life exercised his muscles rather
than his brains, and notwithstanding the idle
existence led for several months every year in
town, that the autumn and winter had invariably
been devoted to occupations of an
active and sporting character, that had not
allowed much deterioration in the sinews,
first developed in University days upon the
Isis.

Do not be afraid," he said consolingly in
her ear. " There is nothing to fear now — no
danger. The fire is burnt out, and I can
keep the crowd off."

Detta could not answer him. She could
only cling to the firm arm — everything swimming
before her eyes, and the confused shrieks
of the crowd subdued into a buzzing in her
brain. She could not have told how many
minutes later it was when his voice spoke
ai^^ain.

Shall you be afraid," it said, " if I leave
you for a few moments ? People are all

passed — no fear of their coming back ; and
the fire is out."

She glanced up with a vague terror in her
eyes.

"Do you understand me? " he asked. ''I
want to find some means of c^ettinGf you out of
this place."

For a moment she clung to his hand, feeling
she could not let him go. Then the self-control
which was a part of her nature came to
her aid.

Yes, go," she said tremblingly ; and he
left her. Not, however, without taking the
precaution of noting the exact position, and
counting the number of the pillar against
which she crouched, as he bid her, until his
return.

Though not particularly well acquainted
with foreign churches, Mr. Conway guessed
that there must be some means of exit, some
entrance door used by the choir and clergy, at
the upper end of the building. The western
end was still thronged with the panic-stricken
mob, of whom but a small portion were able
to make their way at a time through the three

main doors leading out upon the street portico ;
and who, driven wild by excitement and
terror, and misled by the wreaths of smoke
that now filled the church, still pressed on
one over the other, doubtless believing themselves
pursued by their ghastly foe. The
ecclesiastics, however, and the many brill
members of the procession had
disappeared on the first alarm, and had
certainly not made their way out by the
western doors, but by means of some vestry
or side chapel door. Several of these Conway,
half-blinded by the smoke, hastily tried and
found locked, but at length put his hand
upon a solid door, which, opening, showed a
square of grass with a fountain in the centre
and shady cloisters surrounding. It was the
work of a moment to make his way back to
the pillar where he had left Benedetta, and
against which she had now fallen without
life or consciousness. Bending down, he
lifted her in his arms, and carried her out
into the cool cloisters, laying her down on
the stone floor at some distance from the
opening from which the smoke was pouring

out, and supporting her head against his
knee whilst he fanned her face as well as he
could with his cap. She was terribly white
and still, poor child, and at length he put her
head gently down, and, running to the fountain,
filled this cap with water, dashing some
against her face. He Alas greatly relieved
when this had the desired result, and her e3^es
once more unclosed themselves, opening with
a look of terror, as she started up.

Lie still, lie still," he said, in no particular
hurry to get rid of his burden. " You are
quite safe now, and you cannot stand."

No," she said, with a trembling smile, as
she dropped down again into a sitting posture,
*' I can't. My knees give way. It was the
smoke made me faint, I think. Oh ! that fire,
Mr. Conway ! Is anyone hurt ? "

I will go and see in a minute, when you
are better," he replied ; " when you are fit to
be left. I might possibly be of some use."

Detta caught his hand instinctively.

Don't leave me ! " she exclaimed. But
she had scarcely uttered the words before
she retracted them. " Go, quickly," she said ;

I am not afraid. I am quite fit to be left
now."

It is quite safe here," said Beresford, '* the
church is not on fire ; but if it were, it woukl
be hours before the flames could reach these
cloisters. Do you think," he asked, with an
expression in his eyes which, lost as she had
been to all sense save that of terror, brought
the faint color back into her cheeks, " I would
leave you if there were any danger ? "

I am not thinking of myself — now," she
hesitated. " But you — to go back into that
church ! " — and she shuddered.

He smiled as he assisted her to a corner of
the stone-work, where she could lean back at
her ease. " Stay here till I come back," he
said ; " I shall not be long."

Very long however the time seemed to
Benedetta, as she sat in the cool cloister,
strength and courage gradually returning to
her, and the soft breeze blowing over her
forehead, waiting for his return.

Shouts and screams could still be heard
faintly from the other end of the great
building, and mingled strangely and terribly

with the refreshing drip-drip of the fountain,
and the song of the little bird, which having
drunk his fill, had perched himself upon the
stone coping beneath one of the arches close
by.

It was dreadful to hear these sounds,
although softened by distance and becoming
less frequent. " I must try to do something
for them," thought the girl, rising instinctively.
But as she approached the door-way, she
grew giddy and her limbs failed her, and
she acknowledged to herself with shame
and humiliation that she dared not re-enter
the smoke-filled church. She kne^- that
she would have lost her way as well asher
presence of mind had she attempted todo
so. Once more she flung herself down on
the rouo^h stone benchimr that lined the
cloisters, trembling from head to foot. Was
he perhaps risking his life in his efforts to
assist others ? How long would he be ?
Solitude and inaction were dolly terrible
as she realised that the awful scene from
which she had l)een rescued was not yet
over. But in truth, the sounds were now

dying away, and were followed by a pause,
a silent hush, that was almost equally trying
to the tension of her nerves. It was all over
now" — would he never — never come ? She
had, in despair, just given him up, and was
gazing in every direction for some means of
egress from her present retreat, other than
through the church itself, when the welcome
footstep once more sounded behind her and
he came towards her.

His features were a little paler than usual ;
and both hands and face showed signs of the
charred tinder which was falling thickly in
the church.

It is all right now" he said gently ;
everyone is out, and you can go home
whenever you like. But I think you had
much better stop and rest here in the shade
a little first."

Is anyone hurt much ? " she enquired.

He paused a moment before he replied.
No one is killed," he said ; not liking to tell
her that more than one was thought to be
fatally injured. " Of course a good many
were knocked down, especially women, and

got trampled on. But all are safely removed
now to their homes or the hospital."

How strange it seems," said Detta with
compassionate eyes, " that not one of them
should have thought of trying to get out this
ways as you did."

Everyone follows the other in a panic,"
said Beresford ; " no one thinks. And indeed
this narrow door would have been comparatively
useless. A dozen people would
have blocked it up in a rush."

What made you think of it? "

He shrugged his shoulders. " I should
]probably have remained in the church for
my own part," he replied. " I saw from the
first it was only a scare, and that the fire
could not spread. There was nothing for it
to lay hold of when once those hangings were
exhausted. But the panic of a crowd is a
very real danger for any but the strongest."

It would have killed me," said Detta
simply. " I was losing my senses when you
called to me. "If you had not come up
when you did, I should have been pulled
down — I felt myself 2^ivin2^ wav."

Thank God, I happened to be there ! " he
replied, as she rose from her seat. " Take
my arm, and let us stroll up and down these
cloisters a little. It will be better for you
than returning home at once after your
shock."

Scenes such as the foregoing — a peril shared,
and one in which the man has been the protector
and possibly the saviour of the woman
make ordinary conversation difficult, and
rub off all the superficial varnish which
usually coats the social intercourse of man
and woman.

Mr. Conway's calm and kindly manner,
however, soon toned down Benedetta's excitement,
and restored her to something like
everyday looks and feelings ; but a little self-consciousness,
which she strove in vain to
conquer, underlay her tones, and made her
more afraid than usual of raising her eyes to
his. Every now and then, mingling in their
quiet talk, came the remembrance of the
tenderness with which he had held her in
his arms, the expression she had caught upon
his face on re-opening her terrified eyes, and

the sound of his voice as he had soothed her
first alarm. It was impossible to misread
these signs ; and the question which had
troubled her mind, perhaps foolishly, some
months before, was now fully answered.
Whether he spoke to her again or not,
whether he once more pressed her to be his
wife, or left Eome without a word upon the
subject, Benedetta knew that he still loved
her. Perhaps she was conscious, too, of a
new feeling in her own breast awakened b}^
this knowledge — a feeling which was far from
being a joyless one, and yet which gave her
an unusual timidity, a strange reserve.

Their conversation, however, was far from
turning upon any subject of a tender or
sentimental nature, for Mr. Conway was
telling her the reason of his leaving England,
which reason appeared to be of a practical
nature — and the condition generally of his
affairs, which seemed to be, as he expressed
it, " altogether wrong-side foremost and in a
precious muddle."

Whilst doing this he kept his eyes open,
and presently discovered a side door in the

cloisters, wliicli, opening upon some stone
passages, eventually let them out into the
sunny street, quite out of sight of the portico
through which they had both entered the
church that morning, unsuspicious of the
tragedy about to be enacted before . their
eyes.

He purposely led her on into a quiet,
narrow street in the opposite direction, con -
tinning his talk without interruption.
The substance of his information was as
follows :

There had, as he expressed it, been a blowup
between his father and himself, a " general
worry all round," and he had ended by
declining, perhaps foolishly, the Irish
agency.

It is no fault of mine," he remarked,
that that thief of a lawyer has run off with
the best part of my income as well as cousin
Fanny's. A man must, I suppose, stand a
good deal of nonsense when it is talked by
his father ; but there are limits \o human
patience. It isn't pleasant to be regarded
in the light — a — of a pauper, supported b}^
VOL. II. 32

family charity. So I told my father I should
cut the country, and he might spare the rest
of his exordium It can't matter to him
whether I choose to be solvent or insolvent,
so long as I am off his hands, and support
myself in another country, which is what 1
intend trying to do. So next week I start for
Africa."

To Africa ! " repeated Detta, with a
startled look.

'* Yes, to the Cape. I have given a thought
to the colonies all round, and have come to
the conclusion that will suit best. If one is
to kick over society and the comforts of life,
one may as well go in for the whole hog at
once. I think I shall work my way up to the
diamond mines. Those miner fellows don't
seem a bad sort, except for their drink, and
there will be some novelty and excitement in
the life to make up for the roughing. But
on the whole, I think roughing it will be
rather a pleasing sensation than otherwise.
One grows sick of the want of change in this
hum-drum English life."

It was not unpleasant to Beresford Conway

to discuss his affairs after this fashion with his
present companion, for he felt that he carried
her interest and sympathy along with him,
and that her very silence might possibly now
bear witness to the existence of some little
feeling of regret which she was too shy to express
in words.

It seems a long way to go," she said at
length, driven to answer by his prolonged
pause, but without looking up.

Distance is a matter of little moment
now-a-days," he said, " especially to a man ;
but, perhaps, out in such a place as that the
remembrance of one's old friends will be a
more grateful recollection than in less out-of-the-way
regions. And one naturally wants to
say good-bye before one starts, to anyone
whom, in short, one cares about." There
was a moment's silence, whilst the suspicion,
before only half admitted, now forced itself
as a certainty upon Detta's mind — he had
come all this way to say good-bye to her —
just to see her again.

The next moment he spoke as if in answer
to her thoughts.

32*

Do you remember that day I came over
to Steynton Court, when I and my friend were
a — making a little tour to see the Yorkshire
abbeys ? "

And notwithstanding the keen look with
which he tried to read the expression of
her face, a little smile curled his lips as he
spoke.

Well, you remember what I said to you
that day ? In short," he added abruptly, " T
asked you to be my wife."

Yes, I remember," she said in a low
voice.

And you refused me. I fancied then
that there might be some one else — perhaps
you can guess who. But I have come to the
conclusion since that it was not so, and that
it was my own want of attractiveness that repelled
you."

Detta winced at his plain words ; and
it was possible that he saw the wince,
and went on, not ill-satisfied with this
result of a judicious self-abuse.

I told you then that I should try again ;
a resolution in which Eva, Who has much

too good an opinion of me, lias encouraged
me. Then," lie continued, this eyes still fixed
upon her, " there came this smash ; and now
it is out of my power to ask any woman to
share my fortunes — for the simple reason
that I haven't any. A hut in the colonies
or a tent pitched on the African plains is
scarcely a sufficient inducement. Perhaps
some persons would say I have no right
to name the subject again, more especially as
you told me last time that you — a — didn't
want me or my oiler ; but all the same I
thought I would. It is just this," he went on,
speaking with a sort of jerk which may have
been the result of nervousness or some unaccustomed
feeling : " I wish it as much as I
did ; in fact, I think 1 wish it more everyday.
I am a bad fellow at putting feelings
into words, and never had the gift of
speech, but perhaps you can guess I mean
more than I say. I'm not worth much myself,
I daresay ; and at present my income
is worth still less. But all that may be
different some day. And even now, I
fancy, if there were an object to work for,

I could get on and manage something ina
country where health and strength count
for more than genius. Of cours I don't
ask you to engage yourself to me ; but if
you could, in any way, without considering
yourself bound, give me a word of
hope, it would — be a comfort. And," he
concluded practically, " it would of course
bring me back to you so soon as there
was any decent prospect to offer."

Detta made no reply. Various feelings
were contending within her. It was by no
means so easy a matter to answer him
now as it had been that first time. Why
should she find it so hard to reiterate the
response which surely would be the best
at any rate for him ? Why .should a few
months alter her determination ? Nothing
had occurred to change the face of the
matter.

And yet she felt unmistakeably that
there was a change somewhere ; and that
now it would be a pain to her to send him
away without the kindly word for which he
asked.

But surely it would be most unfair
to link herself now to the man whom in his
prosperity and wealth she had refused, and
cast herself as a burden upon him just
when he was about for the first time to
start in the real race for life, and fight
his way through the opposing forces of
poverty, competition, and unaccustomed
conditions of existence. She and the Maestro
led but a lonely life of it here in the old
city — she had, she knew, sometimes yearned
for youth and brightness and change —it
was, she told herself, just because she was
dull that her heart had that morning
leapt with joy at the sight of Beresford
Conway's friendly face.

Was it not selfishness now that tempted
her to accede to his request, and shackle
him with a new bond which would
assuredly be no assistance, as he said, but
rather a drag in his new life? Something
within her told her it must be 3TS or
no ; she could not give him the " one word "
for which he asked, without, she knew, giving
him more.

After a moment's struggle, lie raised
lier head and answered liiiii firmly :

No," she said ; " let things be as they
were ; it is better so. You will always
be a friend to me, Mr. Conway — a kind,
good friend ; but — " and her voice trembled
a little, " but nothing more. Please do not
ask anything else."

The words were clear enough ; yet somehow
they did not convey to his mind
the exact impression which she had intended.
Notwithstanding the low value
at which he rated his own mental capacities,
there must have been a certain
amount of shrewdness about the ex-votary
of fashion — born perhaps of a constant
social interior se with the other sex —
which assisted him to bear this rebuff
with a certain fortitude, and even to
penetrate beneath the surface of Bene-delta's
manner, and guess, after some
fashion, at the perplexed condition of her
thoughts.

Anyhow, he did not seem much cast
down by her reply ; and his conduct

under the circumstances was of a cheerful
nature.

He did not, as Detta had feared he would,
appear to be angry or even hurt by her
conduct.

And as they strolled on through the
quiet streets, it seemed to be her part
rather than his, to feel discomfited and
somewhat saddened.

'' Very well," he had said quietly,
perhaps you are right. I will sa}'-
nothing more. But that will not prevent
me thinking of it, you know."

Now, as they walked on, he continued to
converse with her on other matters, after
a kind and friendly fashion ; interesting
himself in the details of her daily life and
her account of her blind companion, and
forcing her to talk to him as if no subject
of any special importance had the last few
minutes been broached between them.

Presently they came to the corner of the
Tre Fontaine street ; and Detta paused for a
moment and pointed out a house to her companion.


That," she said, shyly, " was the house in
which my mother lived ; and there, in that
room down below — it is a private house
now — my grandfather kept his bric-abra
collection. He was only a shopkeeper,
you know," she said, glancing up at
Conway.

"Like the grandfathers of a great many
of our English nobility," he remarked ; an
observation which, Detta was half-ashamed
to feel, fell pleasantly enough upon her ears.
She had somehow dreaded lest her companion
might despise her for her origin ; and acknowledged
to a corresponding relief. Yet
what could it matter to her whether or no
Mr. Conway looked down upon her origin?
He was going away to Africa — she had told
him to think no more of her — possibly she
might never see him again. This reflection
kept her strangely silent as they made
their way through the Piazza di Stagnant
into the narrow street where, at the
entrance of the old Palazzo, her companion
paused.

I will leave you here now," he said ;

5"ou must go and rest after sour shock. I
fear I have tired you out with this long
walk."

"No, it has done me good. But will you
not come in and see the Maestro ? "

Not now ; but if I may, I will come
again this evening for a few minutes, just to
say good-bye. I must be off' tomorrow
morning."

Benedetta and her old friend had but just
sat down to the frugal repast which they
called their supper, when the visitor, true to
his word, arrived.

The Maestro had been told of his advent,
nd made him welcome with the half-melancholy
dignity natural to his manner ; and
Beresford was asked to share the exceedingly
simple meal. It consisted merely of some
rolls of bread, a dish piled up with grapes,
and a bottle of the thin, acid, native wine.

The visitor had dined late, but did not
refuse the invitation, and drew his chair
opposite to the Maestro's, answering his
queries regarding England, English life,
and the progress of English music, with

a care and a courtesy for which Bene-delta
told herself she would scarcely
have given him credit. Truth was, to
Mr. Conway, the blind musician in his
sorrowful helplessness, seemed an object for
respect and tenderness, greater than any
usually brought before his notice amongst
the luxuriously attended old people in his
former circle of acquaintance.

There was something about this old man
with his snow-white hair, his closed eyes,
and the lines of deep care upon his furrowed
countenance, which, harmonising as they did
with the plainness of his dress and the lialf-
furnished bareness of the room, served to
make up an ensemble not wanting in pathos,
and which seemed to arouse the innate
chivalry of the man who had lived in so
different a sphere.

The poverty of the room was so unlike
English poverty ; the toil and trouble
written upon the old man's face, had
about them nothing sordid ; the very
paucity of the meal to wench he had been
invited as graciously as if to a sumptuous

repast, displayed itself rather by a picturesque
simplicity than by any vulgarity of its surroundings
; while Detta herself, her slight
figure clad in the clinging grey dress, her
movements noiseless, and her Italian-sounding
voice s )ft and sweet, filled in the foreground
of the picture, (giving the whole a touch of
poetic warmth and colour.

The twilight deepened, as the Englishman
sat o^azing^ at the scene before
him ; by degrees more and more absorbed
in the sensation of a dream, and finding
it hard to realise here a fact in which
poverty, old age, and suffering played conspicuous
parts. It was with an effort that at
length he roused himself, and rose to go ;
telling himself that the remembrance of that
evening meal with Benedetta and her Maestro,
would probably long remain in a corner of
his memory, and re-visit him amid the engrossing
interests of a new career.

Good-bye," he said. " God bless you,"
he whispered in a lower tone.

And for a moment he kept her hand in his.
Then there was a kindly farewell from the

Maestro ; and Conway went down the
passage and began descending the endless
staircase, to emerge once more out of
dreamland into the noisy streets full of damp
evening mists and of the practical every-daytime
and atmosphere, which even in Eome,
the city of gods and heroes, romance and
art, has as true an existence as in more
prosaic towns.

END OF VOLUME TL

KEI.I.Y AND CO., Gate STREET, Lincoln's INN KlKJ.Df-,

AND KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.

OF THE

UN IVLR5ITY

Of ILLINOIS

F7582;

V.3

IN THE OLD PALAZZO.

SELECT NOVELS BY POPULAR AUTHORS.

Crown 8vo, cloth, js. 6d. each.

The following Volumes of the Series are now ready, and can be
obtained of all Booksellers in Town and Country, and at all
Railway Bookstalls : —

By FLORENCE MARRYAT.

MY SISTER THE ACTRESS.
A BROKEN BLOSSOM.
FACING THE FOOTLIGHTS.
MY OWN CHILD.

HER WORLD AGAINST A LIE.
PEERESS AND PLAYER.
UNDER THE LILIES & ROSES.
THE HEART OF JANE WARNER

By ANNIE THOMAS.

FRIENDS AND LOVERS. | JENIFER. | ALLERTON TOWERS.

By LADY CONSTANCE HOWARD.

SWEETHEART AND WIFE. I MOLLIE DARLING.

MATED WITH A CLOWN. | ONLY A VILLAGE MAIDEN.

By MRS. ALEXANDER ERASER.

A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY. | A FATAL PASSION.

By IZA Diffuse HARDY.

LOVE, HONOUR AND OBEY. | NOT EASILY JEALOUS.
ONLY A LOVE STORY.

By H. LO Vest - Game ON. By D OR A RUSSELL.

A NORTH COUNTRY MAID. OUT OF EDEN.

By JEAN Middlemost.
POISONED ARROWS.

By NELLIE Fortescue HARRISON.
FOR ONE MAN'S PLEASURE.

-a 'Noufi.

BY

Gertrude EOEDE

Author of
"A Lady's Tour in Corsica," &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :

F. V. WHITE & CO., 31, SOUTHAMPTON ST., Stand

1885.

KitLLV AXU CO., GATK STREET, LllsCOLN»S INN Fills.

AND KINGSTON-ON-THAMES,

CONTENTS.

I. — A Rash Visit 1

II. — Amongst the Masquers . 38

III. — jN^ews from the Cape 57

IV. — The Signor Conte, and the Hignok

Conte's Man 68

V. — Timely IIesctje . 85

VI. — Two Diamond-Diggers . . . .106

VII. — Revenge Delayed . . . 130

VIII. — A Rude Awakening 146

IX. — The Assassin . . . . . 161

X. — An Unexpected Legacy . . . .182

XI. — Alone in the Palazzo 206

XII. — Ino's Letter — A Mission Fulfilled . 217

CHAPTER I.

A RASH VISIT.

AUTUMN" had now come and gone, bringing
in its train the usual crowd of
migratory English and Americans ; amongst
them the Morses, mother and daughter, who,
with a couple of friends, picked during up their
summer travels, returned once more to their
rooms at the top of the Palazzo Carborelli.

With the cool season came life and bustle
and variety, and Madame Scalchi's flat once
more re-echoed to the sound of bright voices
and the tread of active feet. The return of
her American acquaintances was a source of
real pleasure to Benedetta, for the silence
and solitude of the summer months had in
truth been somewhat oppressive to one so
VOL III. 33

young ; and day by day, as the acquaintance
ripened, lie found greater amusement in the
society of her new friends. Her pale cheeks
and languid air had departed with the
fierceness of the summer heats ; the soft
glow of health once more filled her cheeks,
her eyes lit up with their old animation, and
she sometimes carolled a sons: to herself as
she moved about the Maestro's room, putting
here and there little touches of comfort and
refinement which sus^crested themselves instinctively
to her mind, but which would
certainly not have occurred to the stout and
irascible old landlady, who, before the girl's
advent, had the charge of Cortauld and
his apartment, more to his discomfort than
to his advantage. But, although Benedetta
delighted, as was natural, in the society of
young and accomplished friends, and though
sometimes at their request she accompanied
them to places of public resort, or spent an
hour or two chatting, singing or reading in
their rooms, yet the Maestro was on this
account by no means the less cared for.
Day by day, indeed, the bond strengthened

between the old man and the young girl.
The care-worn face set in its frame of snow-white
hair — the face that always smiled at
the sound of her footstep and welcomed her
coming with a look of tenderness which
spread like a ray of sunshine over the tired
features — became more and more dear to her.
She was w^illins^ enough to be with Mrs. Morse
and her daughter and their friends, to enjoy
their companionship — but all the real interest
of her life was learning by degrees to centre
itself upon this old man who was at once
helpless and dependent upon her as a child,
and yet who was a father to her in his
thoughtful love and care for her welfare. He
was so unselfish, this dear Maestro — thought
feo much of her girlish pleasures and so little
of the lonely hours which he himself, in the
enforced inactivity of his blindness and his
feebleness, was condemned to spend— his
character was so lofty, his disposition,
though at times melancholy, so kindly and
loving, his imagination so strong and his
conversation often so fascinating — he was
at once a man so simple and so noble,

3^*

SO childlike and yet so intellectual, that a
few months spent alone with him had
convinced Benedetta that another such did
not exist. He on his part, perhaps, and
may be with truth, was convinced that
never had there been a youthful nurse and
companion with so light a step, so soft a
voice, nor so tender a touch as Benedetta.

And so the autumn had worn away and
given place to winter — that clear, exhilarating
winter which is often known in Eome, and
which is fresh without being exactly cold,
bright and sunny ; and which, almost before
the old year has closed in or the shortest day
is reached, begins to put forward promises of
a brighter season and a coming spring. It
seemed to Benedetta that at this time the
Maestro's revived strength failed a^^ain somewhat,
and that the burden of some care
weighed upon him heavily. The new
sear had scarcely begun before she was
made acquainted with the nature of this
burden.

Delta," said the old man one morning,
I must have a talk with you. It is something

rather serious, m}^ child." And his
voice trembled a little.

I knew there was something," she replied
lightly ; " hut with the wisdom of our two
heads laid together, dear Maestro, it surely
need be nothing serious."

"I fear so," said Cortauld. 'rit is this,
Benedetta. I have just heard from the bank.
The sum I had laid by is nearly exhausted
It was but small — I had not been able to save
much. It will bOon be gone ; then there will
be nothing left for me but public charity ;
or," he added more slowly and in an undertone
" starvation."

Maestro, Maestro, how can join say such
things ! " she exclaimed ; " I am young, I can
work for you — you shall not live on public
charity. And, as if Ino would ever let you
starve ! "

True," said the old man, raising his head,
"Ino is a good lad, a generous lad — he would
not let me starve."

Nor I, Maestro. Do you think I cannot
fid some means of making money for
Ycm ? "

No, no, iTL}^ child, your bright young life
shall not be devoted to toil for the benefit of
an old man. You must return to your
friends in England — they will be good to
you and take care of j^ou ; the weight of
penury and want shall not fall upon your
shoulders. I want but little, God knows ;
and may be Ino will be able to provide forme
; though," he added, " it goes to my heart
to take the boy's earnings. But it will riot befor
long — it will not be for long," he repeated
mournfully.

But Benedetta was already on her knees
beside him, laying his hand against her face
with the childish caress that he loved and
knew so well.

Are you losing your senses, Maestro ? "
she asked, laughter and tears in her voice
together. " Do you think I should ever leave
you here alone to poverty and solitude, to
return to my English friends ? You must be
joking."

You must, you must, Piccola," he murmured
in a half wavering tone, as he fondly
stroked her cheek.

I will not, Maestro ; so, say no more about
it. When I was a little helpless thing you
took care of me. Now I am going to take
care of you. And your child is not so stupid
as you seem to think ; never fear but she will
find some way before long of bringing in a
sufficient income to support our modest
wants. For we are neither of us particularly
luxurious or greedy, are we, dear
Maestro ? "

It should not be," repeated the old man
sadly.

'' It shall be, it must be, till Ino returns.
Would you break my heart, Maestro, by
sending my body back to England, when
my real self would be here all the time ?
We will refer it to Ino dien he comes.
Perhaps then you will go to live with
him, and he will be your son, and you
weill want no one else, and I shall only
be in the way. If you both say so then —
then. Maestro, I will go ; not before. And
why should you mind my trying to do
something for my living here in Eome ?
It seems to me very probable that work

will have to be my vocation when I return
to England. You know, Maestro, I have
not enough to keep myself. I do not like
living upon charity, even the charity of
the kindest of relations ; and the idea of
work does not depress me at all ; it seems
to me a glorious thing. Why did you not
tell me of this before ? " and she pressed
her lips tenderly to his forehead. " You
must keep no more secrets in the future from
your daughter, Maestro."

Benedetta was true to her determination
; and that very afternoon — after prolonged
reflection in her own little room —
reflection which decided her that only in
one capacity, namely the musical, would she
be capable, by means of giving instruction
to others, of putting into execution
her plan of earning something — broached
the subject to her friends the Morses.
This she did quite simply and plainly,
without any shyness, explaining the motives
which actuated her, and eagerly asking the
opinion of mother and daughter as to
whether they considered her sufficiently

qualified for such work. Miss Morse entered
into the subject with her usual energy and
prompt sympathy.

My dear," she said, " don't try to give
music lessons. I guess there are as many
music masters and mistresses in most big
towns as there are pupils to learn. Every
girl who wants to be a bit genteel, and
thinks herself smart enough to teach
because she has been to a cheap school
and learnt to play a waltz or two upon
some tuneless old piano, sets herself up to
be a music-mistress without knowing a note
of harmony, or, maybe, a wrong note from
a right one. It's no good yon going in
for that sort of thing. People can't tell
how much music you know ; but they can
tell you've got a beautiful voice, such a
voice as isn't often heard even in this
country of prima donnas and village operas.
Let 'em hear your voice, my dear, and
they'll come to you for singing lessons
sharp enough. A woman who sings well
can't by an}^ means always teach well,
but fools think they can ; and, as the

world's more or less made up of fools,
there's not much to stand in your way."

Detta could not help laughing at the somewhat
uncomplimentary terseness of her
friend's observations ; but she decided to
adopt the hint and to lay herself out to
obtain singing lessons.

It is a pity now," said Miss Morse,
putting up her little double gold eyeglasses,
aud surveying her companion with
a critical and not unflattering air, " that
you can't be seen and heard somewhere.
That would give you a grand start.
You've got a good appearance — just what
takes with the public, anyhow ; and I
shouldn't wonder if some manager would
give you a chance at one of the winter
concerts going on. You might do worse
than try."

But Detta shrank back involuntarily.

Oh, no," she said, '^ I could not sing in
public yet — not unless I were obliged. I
have never sung except before my
friends. I am sure I should breakdown."


Break down I " echoed Miss Morse scornfully.
" Then you'd be a ninny. A girl with
your advantages to talk of being shy and
breaking down ! Why, I reckon if Td those
eyes and that voice of yours, I'd turn all
New York round my little finger in six
months' time."

Mrs. Morse and her daughter had a good
many acquaintances, more or less intimate,
amongst the American colony now wintering
in Eome.

They were not backward in sounding
the praises of Benedetta's genius amongst
these friends, and it was owing to their
influence and recommendation that the
young girl succeeded in obtaining three
or four pupils, to each of whom she devoted
a couple of hours in the week.
How happy, how triumphant she was,
when, on the departure of her first pupil,
her little account was settled — not without
some kindly words of commendation— and
she brought the sum intact to the Maestro
and laid it upon his knee, flinging her arms
round his neck in a laughing rapture which

brought the tears to the old man's eyes. How
delightfully easy it seemed to Benedetta —
this making of money ; the work was a
positive enjoyment to her, unless the pupil
happened to be of a peculiarly obtuse and
uninteresting description. It was nonsense to
call it toil at all ; she was far happier with
this useful employment, with the sensation
of earning, the knowledge that she was
supporting the Maestro, than she had been
in her days of idleness and inaction, when
nothing more engrossing than, her occasional
marketing, her infrequent letters to her
cousin, or the soft slippers which she was
making for the Maestro's use, filled up her
time and occupied her thoughts.

But Benedetta was very young ; and, like
most people of youth and inexperience, inclined
to count her chickens before they were
hatched, and to live in the present rather
than the future.

The loss was great to her when, in the
month of February, her kind and genial
American acquaintances left the Palazzo and
the neighbourhood of Eome.

They had already remained longer than
they intended in the Eternal City, and had
arranged to spend the rest of the winter, or
rather the advancing spring, at Naples — the
ragged, the picturesque, the lovely, and the
ill-drained.

Soon after their departure two more of
Detta's pupils and Miss Morse's friends
dropped off, also moving southwards ; and
although two or three still remained, jet
these would be leaving shortly, and there
seemed at present no prospect of further
introductions or new pupils.

Detta began to set herself seriously to
work to think out some other means by
which it might be possible to earn something.


More than once Miss Morse's hint recurred
to her mind ; and she resolved at
last to act upon it, putting off the attempt
however in her nervousness from day today,
until at length her last pupil had left,
and she had no longer anything to do.
The expectation of Ino's speedy return was
perhaps an additional inducement to her to

adjourn the evil day; lie would be able to
advise her upon the point, and, if he
thought it a wise thing for her to do,
would doubtless get her an introduction
to some theatrical manager or local musician
of repute, smoothing the way for herby
opening negociations and being himself
present at her first interview. Her mind
was full of all this when one morning
Betting (who, true to her prediction, had
returned some weeks as^o to assist her aunt
in the winter season), brought in the expected
letter addressed in Ino's delicate
handwriting and laid it on Benedetta's knee.
The outside cover was directed to herself,
but the sheet within was to the
Maestro.

This was Ino's usual coarse of proceeding,
and was intended to show that the
letter, which could only reach the blind
man by means of his companion, was
equally indited for both. But in fact, EafFae-
lino had so far forgotten his short insight
into the liberties and privileges of English
social life, and returned to the prejudices of

his own country that it would probably
have required an event of no ordinary
importance to move him to the familiarity,
the great breach of etiquette, of a letter
addressed personally to a young lady.

On the present occasion his news was a
subject for disappointment to both his
friends.

The chance of a new commission had
just offered itself — a chance which it would
be foolish to miss, and which might probably
delay his return to Eome for another
couple of months. It might be that, or it*
might be longer ; but at an}^ rate he could
not now hope to see them before Easter.

Then followed some details of his work
and of his patrons ; and the letter closed
with a brief notice of the one or two money
notes which he enclosed — a little gift sent to
the Maestro by his ' loving son ' — and which
he begged the signorina would be so kind as
to lay out as she thought best, for his comfort
and benefit.

Benedetta gathered up the papers with
something not unlike a sigh of relief. Hereat

any rate, was a temporary suspension of
the dread of absolute want ; but 0, how
much better it would have been for them had
Ino come himself ! She felt assured that he
was quite unconscious of the condition of
Cortauld's finances ; the Maestro had always
been reticent upon money matters as upon
other topics ; and it was more than probable
that Ino was, as she herself had been, under
the belief that the old man possessed some small
income, which, although meagre, yet was
sufficient to stave off positive need. She
counted the money over, and began at once
to calculate how far, with the most extreme
and judicious prudence, such a sum could be
made to go in household expenses. Her
smooth brow was puckered with anxious
thought, as she sat deliberating, too much
absorbed in her monetary calculations to
notice or even hear the softly spoken words
of her old friend.

God be thanked," he was saying in a
murmur to himself, " that the boy has
remembered us — for her sake, not mine."

And, in the look of tenderness which

crossed his face, it would be difficult to say
which of the two, Ino or Detta, had the
greater part.

A few mornings later, Benedetta took her
resolution. She would brave the ordeal and
seek an interview with a certain musician
whose name she well knew as the promoter
and conductor of a course of concerts that
had been given in Eome, that, and the two
preceding winters. It was no good delaying
an)^ longer for the sake of Eaffaelino's support
and encouragement, that was clear ; and the
sum he had sent, though an assistance, would
require very considerable augmentation even
to last them through the short period before
his promised return. With a beating heart,
therefore, and cheeks flushed by nervousness,
and without hinting a word of her intentions
to the Maestro, she made her way an hour or
two later to the street in which lived the
great man whose decision would send her
home again joyful with triumph or humiliated
by failure. She had not far to go, and on
ringing the bell at the entrance to the piano
where were the apartments of the musician,
VOL. III. 34

did not know whether to feel most relieved or
overcome on the information that he was at
home. She was kept waiting a moment or
two in the corridor, whilst her name and
request were delivered by the servant, and
then was ushered int(^ a large untidy room
full of papers, and smelling strongly
of smoke, having one occupant, a middle-aged
man of stout and florid appearance,
who, upon her entrance, rose from a davenport
where he had been writing, and, making
her a slight bow, fixed a pair of very piercing
eyes upon her confused countenance. He
himself remained standing, but motioned her
with brisk courtesy to a chair beside the
window.

What can I do for you, signora ? " he
enquired, as Benedetta paused a moment to
gather courage for her appeal ; and the colour
on the girl's cheeks intensified itself as the
title struck upon her ears, and she realised
that this man, a Eoman and a bachelor,
addressing her as a lady, instinctively supposed
that she could not so far have outraged
the social etiquettes as to come without the

escort of a servant to his apartments, unless
a married woman, l^enedetta in her anxiety
had never thought of this, but the perception
of the fact added perhaps a little stiffness to
her manner, when at length she had collected
herself sufficient' to be able to speak She
put her request briefly, and awaited the
answer in silence. In fact there was but
little to say, and the object of her visit could
be summed up thus — she believed she had a
voice, and she desired to be put in a way of
earning something by means of her voice.

Ah ! " said her companion, drily, " I not
infrequently have visits from young ladies on
a like mission. Neo disparagement to you,
signora, but a great many persons have
voices who cannot sing."

Exactly Miss Morse's words ! His manner
was not encouraging ; nevertheless, it was
respectful, and he treated her, Benedetta
felt, as a lady, though perhaps a foolish one.

The question is easily settled," he continued,
crossings the room towards a franc
piano which stood in one corner and opening
it ; " I could judge best if the signora would

34*

kindly give me a specimen of her realisation'


Then as she rose and began pulling off her
gloves with fingers that trembled somewhat,
and proceeded to seat-herself before the
piano, he sank down upon his chair-v^ith an
air of but half-concealed weariness, to listen
to her performance.

Politeness and the infinitesimal chance of
discovering some star of real magnitude,
necessitated his undergoing this oft-repeated
and tiresome ordeal ; it was also the easiest
method of getting rid of the importunate, the
over self-estimated, or the ill-advised young
women who formed the majority of those who
came to him on such like errands. As
Benedetta began to sing, however — her voice
at first scarcely firm or clear enough, but
gradually rising to its accustomed strength
and passionate vibration — the stout man
metaphorically pricked his ears, and began to
sit upright, fixing her with his bead-like eyes
and following every note with attention. As
soon as she had concluded, remaining for a
moment with her back still turned towards

him, half afraid to move and meet his
omnipotent hat, he rose, without a word of
commendation or comment of any kind, and
placed before her a sheet of music. '' Can
you read music ? " he enquired. " Kindly
sino' me this." It was a bravura soir
from some Italian opera, requiring execution
and finish ; by no means easy of performance
even after study, and a decidedly tough
subject to be attempted at a moment's
notice. Nevertheless Benedetta, now warmed
to her work, and determined not to fail
through cowardice, nerved herself boldly to'
the effort ; acquitting herself, considering her
youth and the nature of the song, very fairly
well, although, as she herself was painfully
conscious, not without several incorrect notes
and a perceptible degree of slurring over the
more difficult passages. This ordeal over,
her companion bowed politely, motioning
her once more to the chair she had before
occupied, and seating himself beside her.
This was a good sign, Benedetta hoped ;
and, indeed, the conductor had intended
it to be such ; yet his words, when at

length lie spoke, were a cruel disappointment
to lier.

Fair, very fair for a beginner. You are
quite right, signora, you have a voice ; and,
what is better, you are not afraid to open
your mouth and to use it. With care and
perseverance you can make something of
your organ. But you require training — considerable
training — before you would be lit
to appear as a public singer ; you need more
smoothness and rapidity of execution, your
shakes are execrable, and sour voice is your
master and not your servant. You must
correct all this. Put yourself under the
Signora Nob ill's tuition for six months.
Then return to me, and I will see what I can
do for you."

Benedetta dropped her veil over her face
to hide the chagrin which she felt was plainly
expressed there. What was the good of his
talking of six months to her — six months
under the training of a fashionable and expensive
teacher ? She who wanted to make
money at once — how could she afford to
spend lire by the hundred in taking lessons

from such a person, even with the hope of
thereby ensuring future gain ? She bowed as
she briefly thanked the musician for his
opinion and advice, and departed ; leaving
him in doubt as to how far she intended
to follow his instructions, or how far
his candidly expressed judgment was a
matter of disappointment or congratulation
to her.

It was not until the outer door had clanged
upon her that Detta paused again upon the
stone staircase, allowing the full tide of
mortification to sweep over her, and debating
within herself drearily as to whether there
might possibly be any other way by which
she might attain her end, or indeed, earn
remuneration by an}^ means. She vaguely
determined, as she passed out into the noisy
street, that she would not allow one failure
to dissuade her from her purpose. But hoar
to carry it out ? She was sorely disinclined
to return home unsuccessful, and she could
not seek the Maestro's advice upon the
matter.

This morning's business should, she had

resolved, be kept a secret from the too tenderhearted
and sympathetic old man.

Presently she found herself in the Via
Nationale, gazing absently into the windows
of a picture dealer's shop. She was still
standing there when a sudden thought, like
an inspiration, darted through her brain.
Might lie not obtain employment as an
artist's model ? And, without pausing a
moment to reflect, she entered the shop.
Had she allowed herself time for consideration
it is probable that, notwithstanding her
youth and inexperience, Detta would have
hesitated to act upon this new idea ; but
something — was it proud determination or
despair, or a feeling approaching to self
contempt ? — prompted her to take action
without a moment's delay. In another nominates
she was on her way to the studio
of an artist whose address she had obtained
from the picture-dealer. She could not have
precisely told why it was that, out of several
names supplied to her, she chose the only
English one. The address given was not at
an)^ great distance, and she arrived at the

door in a few minutes, wit lion t having paused
a moment to deliberate on lier errand.
When, however, she had reached the entrance,
and the name of the artist, " Arthur Cornish,"
inscribed above the brass bell, stared her in
the face, a sudden terror took possession of
her, and she was tempted then and there to
return home mere quickly than she had come.
While standing in nervous deliberation, a
trembling voice struck upon her ear, and
turning, she saw an old beggar standing
beside her. " Charity ! " he said, " charity,
for the love of God ! " His hair and beard
were white, his shoulders were bent ; and,
whether a worthy object of charity or no,
there was little doubt that he was a feeble
one. Something about his face and figure
reminded Detta of the old man she had left
at home, and her compassion was moved. It
seemed to her warm young heart a terrible
thins: that the s^f^ed and infirm should be left
to seek their living in the streets through the
uncertain benevolence of passing wayfarers.
Poor as she was, she placed half a dozen soldi
in his hand, feeling her resolution strengthened

and her hesitation put to flight by the
sight of the withered features. She shuddered
as she thought to herself that ere many weeks
were over, supposing that anything were to
happen to Ino, and supposing that she where
to fail in finding remunerative occupation,
the Maestro might be equally homeless,
equally dependent upon the charity of the
public ; and the vision of the face she loved
rose up before her, taking the place of the
old beggar-man. She turned hurriedly in at
the door-way, whilst the recipient of her
bounty was still engaged in the voluminous
blessings which are the common expression
of his class and his country under like circum
stances .

God in Heaven, Holy Mary, and all the
Saints bless the mother that gave birth to
such as thee ! " &c., &c.

A few steps led up to the artist's door,
which was opened to Detta by a man-servant
in his shirt sleeves, who, in answer to her
enquiry for his master, disappeared into a
room half-way down the corridor, leavings
open the outer door. There appeared to be

two people in the room he entered, conversing-with
each other in English, whilst the servant
was addressed in Italian ; and Benedetta was
an involuntary auditor of their remarks.

A lady, Lorenzo ? " enquired a British-sounding
voice ; " what sort of a lady ? "

A young lady, signor."

English or Italian ? "

Italian, signor. Of that I am certain."

'^ And by herself? What the dickens," he
added, suddenly relapsing into his native
tongue, " can she want ? "

Come to see your renowned studio, mon
cher — perhaps to give you a grand order,"
remarked another voice with a strong French
accent.

"Well! show her in, Lorenzo— sharp I
(Throw away that confounded cigar, Francillon)
! "

I hasten to distance myself, Cornish, my
friend ; I would not interfere with your little
amusements But you are a sad fellow — at
your time of life ! "

Publish ! I've no secrets ; you needn't
go, Francillon."

All ! but I must. Parbleu ! it is two
o'clock, and my model will be waiting."

By this time lienedetta, preceded by
Lorenzo, had reached the door of the
apartment and was ushered in. She found
herself in the presence of two men, one
elderly and English, with an open, kindly
countenance, and a shock of grey hair and
beard ; the other a dapper-looking Frenchman
some years his junior, with coal black
eyes and moustache. It was a comfortable,
untidy room ; biscuits and a bottle of light
wine stood upon the table, and the ends of
two cigars lay smouldering before the stove.
Both men bowed as she entered, and remained
standing waiting for her to speak. Never in
her life before had Detta found it so difficult
to do this. This was a far more terrible visit
than the one she had just paid ; and her
confusion increased as she saw the increasing
curiosity in the four eyes fixed upon her.

Adieu, mon cher," said the Frenchman, ashe
took up his hat, not unnaturally attributing
the embarassment of the visitor to the
presence of a third person, and opining that

she had some communication of a private
nature to make to his companion.

Benedetta perceived his delusion, and
before he reached the door, had hurriedly
stated the nature of her errand. She
instinctively felt rather than saw the
astonishment it created ; and reflected that
probably models as a rule came from a
lower class, and were less lady-like in
appearance than herself. This fact might
also, she thought, account for the subtle
change of manner immediately apparent, or
so she fancied, in her auditors, and the les
respectful way in which they turned their
gaze upon her.

"I'm afraid," said Mr. Cornisch, rather
drily, " that, so far as I am concerned, you
have had your tr able for nothing. I'm not
in any want of a female model at present."

Meanwhile, the Frenchman had returned a
few paces into the room, and after staring at
Benedetta whilst his friend was speaking with
a fixity which made her two cheeks burn like
coals, had scribbled something on a bit of
paper.

There's mj address," he said. '' You
can come to me tomorrow at twelve and I'll
see you."

Mr. Cornisch glanced towards him, at the
same time making some remark in an undertone
in English.

Why not ? " asked his companion.

Why not ? Why, because the girl has
the face of a Madonna, not of a heathen
goddess of small repute."

The reply was a shrug of the shoulders
and a short laugh, as the French artist turned
on his heel and left the room. Benedetta
was about to follow him, feeling that the
short interview was already over ; and half
afraid, from the Englishman's manner, that
he regarded her call in the light of an
intrusion, when the voice of Mr. Cornisch
suddenly arrested her steps.

Stop a moment," he said. " You understand
English, signorina ? "

"Yes," she replied, still, however, in the
Italian tongue, and feeling an instinctive
desire to keep to herself the secret of her
nationality. " How did you know that ? "

By your face just now wlieii I talked of
you. If you'll allow me, I'll speak English
now. I can't Get aloncf so well in that
sugary Italian."

Benedetta bowed her head in silence,
wondering what was comines next.

Look here," said Mr. Cornisch, speaking
in a somewhat gruff, abrupt tone, at variance
with the expression of his face ; " you are
new to this business, aren't you ? "

I have never been a model before," she
replied.

"You are a lady," he said, fixing his eyes'
upon her, " young and pretty ; and well
educated I should imagine, from your speech
and manner ; what on earth induced you to
try this trade of all others ? "

There was a short pause ; and then
Benedetta raised her beautiful dark eyes,
shining with the light of truth, to his, and
answered simply :

"For the same reason that induces most
people to work — want of money."

Are you so poor ? " he asked. " You
don't look like it."

She turned her head away for a moment.

Those I love are poor," she said in a low
voice, moved involuntarily, notwithstanding
his bluntness of manner, to a sort of confidence
in the man before her.

He was silent for several seconds.

"Well then," he said at length, "go
and scrub floors — take a broom and sweep
streets — but don't try to be an artist's
model ! "

Benedetta raised her wondering gaze again
to his. Why did he speak to her after this
strange fashion, with such a harsh, energetic
ring about his voice ? Notwithstanding the
varied scenes of her life, both Italian and
English, she was a strangely ignorant girl in
many things.

You," he repeated, " a Eoman young
lady, a virtuous girl — what are you thinking
of? Good heavens, child!" he exclaimed,
waxing more eloquent as he went on, " give
up this mad idea, and take to any other trade.
Such as you are not of the stuff to make
models. God forgive me that I run them
down, poor things ; they work hard enough

for tli^ir living, and we couldn't get on without
them."

Benedetta's eyes were lowered, and he saw
them fixed upon the piece of paper which she
was turning round and round between her
fingers, and guessed her thoughts.

He moved suddenly, and taking a sketch
out of a portfolio that stood near, tossed it
on to the table.

"That's the outline of Francillon's new
picture," he said ; " a rough sketch. If
you're wanted at all, it will be for that."

Benedetta gave one glance towards the
little pencil sketch.

Then the paper fell from her hands, as she
sprang up, as if stung by some noisome
reptile — neck, ears and face covered with a
burning blush that made her very eyes smart
with a sense of physical pain. She could
not, would not, wait another moment in the
room — she must get out into the open air.
She felt stifled in the presence of this man,
whose well-meant but blunt revelations had
shocked and startled her with an indescribable
horror, and whose eyes she dared not
VOL. nr. 35

meet, as, almost without parting salutation,
she hurried out. She was so quick that
she had reached the entrance gate before
either Lorenzo or his master could overtake
her, and almost before Mr. Cornisch had
realised the fact that she was going. Here,
however, whilst she was fumbling for the
fastening, the artist rejoined her ; and as he
let her out, laid a not unkindly hand upon
her arm.

I have distressed you," he said. " All
the better for sou — sou will thank me for
it some day. Take this — it is a small
trifle to go towards helping ' those you
love.' "

And with a perceptible softening of the
rough voice, he endeavoured to push something
into her hand. But she scarcely
heard his words, as, avoiding both his
ghuK'e and his outstretched hand, she
escaped past him out into the street,
hurrying homewards with her head bent
down and her heart fled with bitter
humiliation.

How thankful she was to fid herself

once more in her own little room, and
to fling herself down beside the bed,
wearied out in body and mind, and relieve
herself by a burst of passionate
tears.

So absorbed was she in her own trouble
that she was deaf to the tap that presently
came to her door, and even to the
sound of Betting's light footstep entering.

Dio mio ! What is this ? " exclaimed
the handmaiden in dismay ; " the signorina
in tears ! Ah, what is it ? "

Somewhat ashamed of her weakness, but
too utterly tired and dispirited to care
much about hiding her grief from Betting,
Detta rose, and wiping her eyes, seated
herself wearily in a chair.

Covering, covering ! " ejaculated Betting,
lifting up her hand and gently smoothing it ;
what has gone wrong with you ? Are
you fretting' after the tall, fair Englishman,
or is it the signor Ino that has
given you a heartache ? Or, may be,
some impertinent fellow has been rude to
you in the street?"

35*

"Neither, Betting," she replied, moved
to a lan.u'uid smile by the characteristic
nature of the inquiry.

Then what is it, signorina ? And why
have you been out all the morning — all
these long' hours without comines home ?
I have never seen you weep before."

"It is nothing, Betting— - only foolishness;
you would not understand it."

I, too," said Betting, looking at her
lovingly, " can be foolish at times. I was
very foolish — ah, very sad, when I bid
good-bye to my cousin Carlo last autumn."
What, you, Betting — who think so little
of the men ? " asked Detta, beginning to
recover herself, and roused by this novel
admission on the part of the Tuscan
girl.

"Ah, signorina! but Carlo is not as
other men ! "

From which it will be seen that Betting
was as illogical as most of her sex ; and
that undeviating adherence to any fixed
principle is not possible to the ordinary
female intelligence.

The signor," she continued, " has been
quite unhappy about you. He asked me
why you did not come in to the mid-day
meal ' Oh,' said I, ' she is gone to the
Vatican ; it is free there to day, and we all
know how the signorina forgets the hours
when she is among pictures or statues ! ' "

But, Betting, how could you tell him
such a story? Don't sou know it is wrong
to tell lies ? "

Ah, Dio mio ! if one may not tell a little
lie just to make an old man happy ! That is
surely no sin. But come in now quickly to
him — he has already heard your step. Here,
signorina, is the water to wash your face.
And, when you have eaten some food and
consoled the signor, and feel well agahi,
you must tell your faithful Betting what
has distressed you. You should not go about
the streets alone ; you are too young and
pretty by far, signorina mia."

AMONGST THE MASQUERS.

IT wanted but two days to Ash Wednesday.
The Eoman Carnival was at its height, the
mad riot and revel increasing hour by hour
in boisterous merriment. Detta was leaning
out of a side window ; whither she had been
invited b}^ Betting to gaze upon the passers-by,
and to amuse herself with the distant
view of that small portion of the Corso
which it commanded.

The two girls had been laughing merrily
at the various strange costumes that passed
beneath, and it must be confessed that Detta
had felt a momentary longing to enter into
the gay throng and take her share of the
fun i]foin2^ on.

Look here, signorina," said Betting, displaying
with great pride two little black

satin masks; " these are for you alit me to
wear this afternoon ! A little liter, Ashen
Aunt Scalchi has done the da^^'s work and
scowling, we will put them on and creep
downstairs. Giacomo will be waiting about
for me at ^\q o'clock, and I told him that I
should brings the siij^norina, and that he must
take great care of her."

Oh, Betting, I dare not ! " said Bene-delta
; iu a hesitating voice, however, and
rejT^ardincf the seductive little bits of black
satin with lon^'inijf eves.

'' Che, die !" said Betting; "there is no harm
whatever, and nothing to frighten you. No
one would hurt you, were you by yourself ;
arid 1 wager that with Giacomo by they will
scarcely even dare to speak to you. He is a
fool, is Giacomo ; but he is as big as any man
in Eome, and as strong as an ox. That is all
he is good for — to take care of one in a
crowd."

Benedetta had not made any further
attempts in the matter of earning her living.
She had received too great a shock on the
occasion of her visit to the English artist ;

and had determined with sorrowful Immilit}^
that she was too foolish and inexperienced to
be able to start herself in any active career.
Many good things would shortly happen. The
little sum due to her quarterly would be
arriving ; and in a few days now Ino would
surely return.

She had an instinctive faith in Vino's
superior wisdom, and in his power to set all
troubles straight.

He was but poor himself as yet, but he had
experience and he had friends ; he would be
able to find out for her some means b}^ which
she might earn enough to keep the Maestro
and herself from want. Meanwhile it was
strange that he had not written. Could he
again be delaying his return? That would
be a serious matter.

Here a shout of light-hearted mockery
from the street below caused Benedetta to
resume her occupation of peering through
the open window. When at length she drew
back and returned towards the corridor, she
paused astonished at the sounds which smote
upon her ear.

They were sounds common enough, being
nothing more than the high-toned ravings of
Signora Scalchi's harsh voice ; but the quarter
from whence they issued, namely the Maestro's
room, was a new and unexpected one.
Benedetta entered hurriedly, and stood aghast
at the scene before her.

Signora Scalchi was standing in the middle
of the room, the fino-hers of her haire brown
hand extended towards the Maestro, whilst
the many-coloured silk handkerchief which
she wore upon the top of her head
vibrated with the energy of her loud
passion.

So you have told me times and times
aofain ! " she was savins as the air entered.
It is always ' I will pay you next week or
next month.' But it shall go on no longer.
I will have my money or you go. Have you
no shame to cheat an honest woman out of
her due ? Here is six months owing. I can
wait no longer ; those that have no money
should go out into the streets and beg, and
not take the bread out of the mouths of hardworking
people."

To all this the Maestro answered never a
Avoid. His head was sunk upon his breast ;
and, save for a little nervous movement of the
loniT fnio^ers, he mis^ht have been deaf to the
stormy flow of invective. Benedetta crossed
the room with quick steps and stood beside
his chair, leaning her hand upon his shoulder,
and confronting the angry woman with eyes
full of silent indignation.

"And you," said Signora Scalchi, suddenly
pointing her guns towards the new-comer,
you're youno^ and strong' enouoii, aren't
you ? Why don't you go and work ? " she
shrieked, with coarse vehemence, '' instead of
idling about all day wasting your time ?
<3r wh}^ don't 3'ou write to some of those fine
friends of j^ours"- — (an allusion probably based
upon the solitary appearance of Beresford
Conway at the Palazzo) — " and get them to
send you some money?"

But-before Benedetta had time to frame any
reply to this sally, Betting suddenly appeared
upon the scene, her cheeks almost as crimson
and her eyes almost cs flashing as those of
her aunt.

What are you doing here ? " she asked,
turning upon the latter with astonishing
vivacity. " How dare you make all this
noise, and come and insult gentlefolks in
thir own room ? "

"It's not their room, it's mine ! " screamed
Signora Scalchi. "And you, you good-for-nothing
liuss}^ what do you mean by ordering
me about ? I'll turn you out of my house."

Altro," sneered Betting, " there are
twenty houses / might go to ; but not
another girl in Eome who would stop with
you, you cross-grained old toad ! Leave the
signor alone, and the signorina too, I tell you.
They will pay you all in good time. And, as
for your rooms, no one would come to them
if it were not for me. If the signor and the
signorina go, I go too. Cospetto ! why," continued
Betting, whose characteristic virtue,
was certainly not an excess to humility, " the
Signore Morse would not have come back had
I not been here — they told me so."

The flow of Betting's eloquence could on
occasions rival or even excel that of her aunt ;
and she now continued her uncomplimentary

remarks with such determined vigour and
with HO little apparent necessity for a pause
in which to take breath, as to over-ride even
her stouter relative, whom she fairly drove
before her out of the room.

This victory she achieved in the course of
a few moments, Benedetta and the Maestro
remaining silent auditors of the domestic
combat. When, however, both had left the
room, the angry war continuing as they made
their way towards the kitchen, Benedetta
closed the door softly and returned to her
companion's side. For several moments
neither of them spoke. Detta was still
trembling with indignation at the onslaught
which had been made upon the helpless old
man, whilst he sat wrapped in painful thought,
heavy lines gathered upon his forehead. At
last he rose and walked towards the corner
of the room where lay his violin case, bringing
it back in his arms to where she stood.

Benedetta," he said in a low voice that
had an unnatural ring about it, "this must go.
It will stop that woman's mouth. It is worth
a thousand lire."

But she shrunk back as if he had offered
her a serpent. " Oh no, Maestro ! " she
exclaimed, "that shall never be. We will
find some other means. Ino will be back ina
few days ; and I — I also shall have some
moneys soon."

Ino may delay ; and he is poor, like us,"
he said in the same tone. " And there are
other debts — ^^ou forget "

But the tears had risen to Benedetta's eyes,
and she pushed back the case from her,
pleading earnestly. " Not the violin. Maestro
I have my watch." •

"It would not be enough," he said ;
besides, shall I rob you ? No, this must
go. May be some day I may get it back.
Moroni will dispose of it for me." And he
put the case down beside him, taking out the
instrument with trembling fingers. " Not
you, my child ; you shall not do it. I will
wait a few hours ; Moroni will be here this
evening'* Then his face fell suddenly
upon his bowed hands as they rested on the
table in front of him, and Benedetta heard
him mutter in a tone whose despair went

to her licart, " Oh ! my God ! lias it come
to this ? "

He seemed for once almost unconscious of
lier presence ; and unable to bear the sight of
his anguish, she left the room. Something
must be done, and that quickly ; it would
kill the old man to part with his violin — the
cherished instrument that for years had been
to him as a favourite child, soothing him in
hours of sorrow, conversing with him in hours
of loneliness, and for ever bringing a train of
fresh, bright dreams — dreams of a better
world than the one in which humanity toils
and loves, quarrels and cheats — into the dim
dreariness of his long ni^rht.

Once more she returned to the unoccupied
room where she and Betting had laughed
together so merrily but a few minutes before.
On the table still lay the two black satin
masks. The sight of them inspired Detta
with a sudden idea. She took up one of
the masks and tried it on. It fitted closely
round her face, leaving nothings visible save
the mouth and chin, and the eyes gleaming
through the two apertures. She tore it off

again, glancing through the open window fora
moment ; then stood debating, whilst the
colour went and came on her smooth round
cheek. The debate did not, however, last
many seconds ; after which she proceeded
to her own room, hastily donned a wrap,
and, with the mask still in her hand, closed
the outer door behind her softly and hurried
down the staircase. A step or two from the
bottom she paused, and put the black satin
upon her face ; then, darting rapidly out,
passed the open doorway of the concierge's
room. She walked down the street quickly*
looking neither to right nor left, until she
had almost reached the corner of the Corso.
There were not many people at the moment
at this particular spot, a Polichinello of
remarkable wit and acrobatic power having
just drawn the crowd in his wake down t e
main street. One or two more quiet-looking
passengers loitered like herself about the
corner, apparently intent more upon seeing
than being seen; but no one spoke to her
nor regarded her with any particular
curiosity, as se leant against the wall.

rousing up her courage with a desperate
effort. Presently, however, every head was
turned and every eye fixed upon the girL A
stream of melody was rising from the little
quiet street — a magnificent volume of sound
coming from the lips of the tall slight figure
dressed all in black with veil upon her head
and mask upon her face. At first the voice
trembled somewhat ; but in a few moments
was brought under control, filling the narrow
street and penetrating down the Corso in the
gay notes of a well-known Neapolitan song. A
crowd quickly gathered round ; and it is a
testimony to the innate love of music in the
Italian soul, that, even amid the license of this
carnival day, not a person spoke to the singer,
or in any way interfered with her during her
performance.

The motley crowd formed in a ring, as
the full notes rose and fell upon the sunny
air ; jokes were suspended, all remained
stationary, and a perfect silence, interrupted
only by the cries which proceeded from the
more distant outskirts of the circle, prevailed
for several minutes. At the conclusion, the

applause was loud and long. Italians do not
stint their praise of music which pleases them.

There were " bravos " and clapping of
hands, and cries of " another, another ! " from
many of those who stood about the girl ;
whilst the ring widened with new comers, and
many and various were the coins and papers
Hung into the apron which the singer timidly
held out for contributions.

Another, another ! " they still shouted ;
and Benedetta, afraid to refuse, and still more
afraid to chance at the sea of faces which surrounded
her, started afresh, choosing this time*
a more solemn and pathetic song — a provincial
ditty, which in the days of her childhood
she had learnt, from hearing it repeatedly
sung by Annunciata when moving about
her household duties. It was one better
fitted than the former to bring out the best
points in the girl's voice ; and, whilst rendering
it, Benedetta lost her fears, and singing
with the full force which she dared not have
employed within a room, forgot the crowd
around her, save for being conscious of that
peculiar exultation which the unspoken
VOL. III. 3 6

sympathy of any large number of fellow
human beings brings to the one beneath
whose spell they are for the moment placed.
She had not intended this time making any
demand upon the public bounty, but the
approbation of the crowd forced upon her
tangible tokens of their satisfaction ; and she
found it difficult to escape from the throng of
her admirers. At this moment, however,
some new excitement appeared upon the
scene but a few yards off, and the volatile
crowd made a sudden rush in that direction,
carrying Benedetta in their vortex. She was
trying to escape the pressure and to turn her
face homewards, when a voice sounded
suddenly close to her ears —

Come and sing us another song, my
pretty one," it said, " in this cafe close hj.
Such a nightingale as thou art is not to be
heard every day. Nay, nay, do not runaway
; I have given thee one gold piece,
and r will promise thee half a dozen more
if thou wilt tune up there."

Benedetta gave a lurid glance in the
direction of the speaker. He was a well-dressed

man with a dark dissipated face and
evil-looking eyes. Involuntarily she shrank
from him ; but the press of people round
prevented her moving quickly, and the
more evident her intention to escape, the
greater apparently became his determination
to keep her prisoner. He placed himself
deliberately in her way, and tried to draw
her arm within his.

Do not be so timid, little one," he said
"Why, you are quite a coquette! Lift up
the corner of that mask, and let me see a
face which must surely be beautiful, judging
from the eyes and mouth."

Benedetta's fears increased. She knew the
license permitted by the carnival, and she
also knew that by the action she had just
taken in singing for charity in the open
street, she had placed herself in a position
which, so to speak, permitted if it did not
invite such liberties ; but there was something
about the manner and look of this man
especially repugnant to her, and she felt a
genuine fear of him. He did not leave her
long in doubt. Strains of music were proc*



feeding from a doorway close beside them,
leading into the street ; and although not
yet five o'clock in the afternoon, couples
might be seen twisting and twirling to the
quickly played measures of a popular waltz.
Before Benedetta could struggle or resist, her
persecutor had thrown his arm around her
waist, and with an adroit movement, had
crossed the threshold and was whirling her
round and round amongst the other couples.
To resist would only have been to create a
scene, and Benedetta felt it wisest to give
way to necessity, and keep step With her
partner, making, however, so soon as he
paused, another vain attempt to escape.

Not so fast, not so fast, pretty one," he
said, keeping a firm though not ungentle hold
of her arm, as he forced her to walk beside
him down the long room ; " we must have
yet another turn ; you dance as transcendentally
as you sing. Then, if you will but
tell me your name, and tear that cruel mask
off your face but for one moment, I promise
you, on the honour of a gentleman, to let
you go. But," he continued, pressing the

hand that he kept captive within his arm,
why are you afraid of me ? Why so timid
now when you were not afraid to sing to a
street-full of contadini ? "

Let me go, signor ; I do not wish to
dance again," she pleaded ; but his reply was
inexorable.

Nay ; not until you give me a sight of
the face that belongs to so charming a
maiden," and he fixed his eyes upon hers
with a bold glance which caused the girl to
turn aside her head ; as, once more against
her will, she was draofo'ed into the midst of
the dancers.

They had not gone far, however, when
another couple, dancing with more vigour
than foresight, cannoned up against them
with violence, nearly knocking them over,
and loosing the hold of Detta's partner. She
recovered herself more quickly than her
companion ; and by a quick movement
freeing herself, darted towards the open
door. In another moment she was out in
the street, had turned the corner of the Corso,
and was flying like the wind in the direction

of the Palazzo. The sound of mocking
laughter and running footsteps behind served
to increase her pace ; and she never paused
until, breathless and excited, she reached the
top of the long stone staircase. Then she
waited a moment to recover her breath and to
congratulate herself upon her escape. Her
pursuer had not ventured to enter the
gateway, and she was now quite safe. After
all, there was no great harm done ; such
freaks were common enough during the
Carnival, and she might feel relieved that
nothing worse had come of her bold action.
And the money — the money was there, safe
and real, in her pocket! She had not yet
counted it ; but it was enough, more than
enough, she felt sure, to prevent the terrible
sacrifice of the old man's violin. Such a benefit
had been well earned at the expense of a few
fears and a little annoyance. What a smile
would come over the dear face when she laid
it in his lap and assured him that his treasure
was safe !

She was hastening in, her mask torn off,
her eyes smiling and her steps joyful, when

Betting, with a white startled face and a
strange silence, put out her hand as if to
warn her from entering the room. A great
foreboding came over her as she pushed
Betting aside without a word, and hurried
on.

There, stretched out upon the bed, lay the
old man, pale and unconscious, supported in
Signora Scalchi's arms ; whilst a stranger,
evidently a medical man, stood beside him.
One glance was sufficient to tell Benedetta
what had happened ; the dread enemy,
paralysis, had returned for the second time
and stricken his victim

'•Ah !" said Betting, taking the si"fnorina's
hand in hers, " it must have been but a few
minutes after you had gone out, when I
returned in here to tell you that Aunt Scalchi
was sorry for her rough words, and to bid you
pardon her incivility. And I found him by
himself, the violin between his arms upon the
table, and his head fallen across them. I
thought he was dead. Ah, Dio ! and I fetched
the signor medico. It is all the fault of that
wicked woman Scalchi. Yet, courage !

signorina, it is but another fit ; lie will get
better."

Signora Scalchi, subdued and terrified,
attempted no retort to Betting's accusations
; but Benedetta flung herself beside
the bed, sobbing aloud, " It has come too
late — too late for him ! "

NEWS FROM THE CAPE.

rpHE next few days were sad and dreary
I enough, passed in the noiseless solitude
of the Maestro's room ; where, for some time,
the old man lay without apparent life or
motion, and Benedetta kept anxious watch
beside him. The loud shouts of the merry
Carnival mummers ascended from the street
below, and broke strangely across the stillness
which reigned at the top of the old Palazzo.

As, with her heart full of tenderest pity
and affection, Detta sat beside her old friend,
waiting, hoping for some return to consciousness,
it seemed to her now a matter of
wonderment that she had but a few days
before been light-hearted and frivolous
enough not only to laugh in sympathy
with the senseless antics of the crowd

beneath, but even to look forward with a
pleasurable excitement to taking part in the
frolics going on.

It was a relief to her when the Carnival
came to its abrupt close ; and the very-people,
who a few hours before, dressed as
harlequins or as monstrosities, had been
careering about the streets like children,
pelting each other with confetti, bearing
huge lighted candles in their hands, playing
off against each other numberless practical
jokes of a rough and foolish nature, should
now, in sober costume and with decorous
countenances, be flocking in crowds to all
the churches in Eome, to kneel upon the
stone floors with down-bent heads and every
expression of abject penitence and self-reproach.


After a few days, however, the old man
rallied, and there came a return to consciousness.


Things mended day b}^ day ; and before the
week was over, the Maestro could not only
hear and understand what she said to him,
but could also make himself understood by

others. His features were still affected, and
his utterance indistinct, but Benedetta
nourished a hope that these matters might
improve, and that her companion might, at
any rate, be restored to his formal mental
powers. The doctor, however, assured her
that this was the most that could be hoped
for. Physically, life was almost over for the
old man ; one side was too completely paralysed
to admit of a chance of restoration,
and he would probably remain in bed, a
helpless log, for the brief remainder of his
days. •

It was pitifully sad to Benedetta to see the
smile that still crossed the poor drawn features
as the Maestro endeavoured to thank her for
any little act of attention ; and, so soon as it
was clear that he had recovered consciousness
and felt a comfort in her presence, she refused
to leave his side except for necessary sleep.

The day after Cortauld's seizure she had
written to Ino ; but, much to her astonishment,
had received no reply from him. He
must have left Florence ; he would never have
allowed such a communication to remain

unanswered — so devoted as lie was to this old
friend. Very often Detta found herself longing
for his return — fortis presence in the
sick-room ; the lonely responsibility lay so
heavily upon her inexperienced shoulders.
How she longed for the sound of a friendly
voice — for the sympathy of some one who
would share her sorrow, and take an occasional
part in her anxious watching ! And,
as if in partial answer to these cravings, there
arrived for her, just about this time, a letter
from the Cape. She felt a strange thrill of
pleasure as she held it unopened in her hand.
So, Mr. Conway had not forgotten her, nor the
promise he had made at parting, that he should
write to her from his new home. And she
had felt, as she said her good-byes, that it
would by no means be displeasing to her to
know that this man, who was to be nothing
more than her friend, should still at times
think of her and of their friendship. But she
had not thought that, after the lapse of so
many months, the mere sight of her friend's
handwriting would have power to bring the
colour into her cheeks and such a sudden

warmth to her heart. If the outside of the
letter, however, was sufficient to move and
interest her so much, the inside was not calculated
to lessen this effect.

Beresford Conway expressed himself in
writing as he did in speech, somewhat abruptly
and yet deliberately ; and the sentiments he
enunciated on this occasion were of no uncertain
nature, nor did they by any means
incline to the line of platonic friendship.
The first part of his letter was, however,
devoted to the details cf his new life. He
began by giving Detta a graphic account of
the various adventures he had met with, and
the numerous occupations he had tried since
his landing. He appeared to find considerable
relish in the peculiar vicissitudes of
colonial life ; and there was a vein of humour
pervading the description of his novel surroundings
which had lain latent during his
former more conventional existence. He had
been — up to the present date — a railway
surveyor, a horse-breaker and a tutor. The
latter occupation, which he still held, was the
most genteel but the dullest of the three.

The line-surveying was the pleasantness, by
reason of change of scene and the constant
supply of horses at his command. Still, a
certain amount of amusement was to be extracted
even from his present calling. His
pupils were the family of a rich and aspiring
Boer — two young ladies of fifteen and sixteen
and a brother of twelve. They were very
advanced Boers, and desirous of minc^lino- in
English society — the society of the African-des
up country — and his duties were simple,
consisting merely in teaching them to read
and write in English. The boy, who was the
sharpest, was easy enough to manage, as he
could be cuffed if he did not attend ; but the
tuition of the young ladies was somewhat
embarrassing, owing to their disposition to
burst out giggling on the smallest provocation
all through school hours. They were large,
fat, flabby-looking girls, said Mr. Conway,
with big mouths, and no eyes to speak of;
very stupid and very good-natured ; and their
hands were the most wonderfully huge and
awkward mechanism of thumbs that had
ever been put together.

Meanwhile lie was living at the Boer's
house, where the hospitality was great, and
all the family looked up to him as a rare
marvel of learning and accomplishments.
But he was getting rather sick of the shockheaded
boy and the pudding-faced maidens,
and intended to push on shortly up to
Kimberly and the diamond mines. "I
wonder," he said, " if all this rigmarole will
only bother you ? It is rather lonely out
here, notwithstanding the novelty of a free
active life ; so one is apt to grow selfish and
force one's self upon the recollection of one's
friends. But, from what I saw, I fancy that
you also have not many friends in Eome, and
so perhaps will be the more likely to put up
with these egotistic meanderings. But now
to another topic. I suppose I may be very
obtuse, as there is no doubt I was always
very obstinate ; but an absurd idea has for
some time had possession of me — that you do
not dislike me so utterly as you wish me to
understand, and that if I hammer my nail on
the head long enough I may perhaps succeed
in driving it home. At any rate I shall do

SO, as there is nothing to lose by it — at least
until I hear there is somebody else more
worthy of you."

For some time after she had finished reading
it, the letter lay upon Benedetta's lap,
whilst her gaze wandered dreamily out
through the window, and she recalled the
writer as he stood before her last with the
kindly look in his half-sleepy eyes and the
protective tone in his slow voice. How
long was it since she had found out the real
goodness and manliness that underlay Beresford
Conway's little affectations ? How was
it that at first she had felt so callous, so
indifferent towards him, and that now, all
of a sudden, a great yearning came into
her heart as she thought of him ? That day
when they had sat together on the common,
and she had listened to what he had to say
with a half-incredulous astonishment — how
little she had thought the time would come,
not many months hence, when she would
look back upon her own repulse with a far
greater astonishment and incredulity. How
she had misconceived him then ! She

lead regarded him merely as a good-looking
nonentity, pleasant-tempered but shallow ;
and had not given him credit for one of
those strong and generous qualities which
she now acknowledged he possessed. How
superficial and childish her judgment had
been. How happy they might have been
if she had said ses to him then.

There was neither poverty nor trouble of
any sort at that time to divide them ; only
her own coldness and want of appreciation.
And now he was in Africa, and she in Italy —
many thousand miles between them ; who*
could tell if they might ever meet again?
He told her that he was obstinate, and she
believed it. She believed that he would
remain faithful to her, perhaps longer than
most men ; but, with separation and poverty
and distance between them, who could tell
what misunderstanding, what danger, perhaps
what death might intervene ? She had been
a fool in rejecting happiness when it lay
before her. She had even let him go this last
time without the knowledge that her heart
was touched ; and had striven to make him
VOL. III. 37

believe her as indifferent as before. Thank
God, she had not quite succeeded — that he
guessed in any fashion at the motive which
had induced her to make the effort to deceive
both herself and him, and which had led her
to fiofht all this winter against the cfrowinof
consciousness that she had made a mistake —
the increasing lom^inc^ to see him once more,
to retract her words and to tell him that his
love was precious to her.

It was often lonely, very lonely — she had
few acquaintances and fewer friends in this
sunny, brilliant old city of Rome ; he was a
man strong in mind and body, one whom she
could lean upon as well as love, and who
would be a protector through life. She
rose suddenly with a pain at her heart ; and
leaning her cheek against the cold windowpanes,
looked over the wide expanse of domes
and roofs and turrets, conscious of a strange
new yearning.

The tears had risen involuntarily to her
eyes ; and with flushed cheeks she pressed the
letter to her.

I love him ! " she whispered to herself with

an emotion that was chiefly joy. " Widen will
he know it ? "

But at the same moment she started, turning
quickly, as the sound of a feeble, broken
voice came indistinctly from the other end of
the apartment.

Piccola, Piccola mia," it said, " are you
there ? "

And she hurried towards him, her letter in
her pocket ; even Beresford Conway forgotten,
as she bent above the Maestro,
smoothing his pillow, laying a cool hand
upon his forehead, and soothing him with
gentle loving words.

Ah, it was better so — better that she should
be free. Not even for his sake, or for the
sake of any happiness of her own, would
she have given up the tender duty of ministering
to the last days of this sad and solitary
old man, her fathers friend, and her own
adopted father.

37*

THE Signal CONTE, AND THE SIGNOR CONTe's Man

rpHE next morning was a Sunday, and the
1 bright sunshine was tempting to behold.
Benedetta, at any rate, felt it so, and perhaps
partly in consequence of the cheering effect
of yesterday's letter, made no opposition to
Betting's proposal that she should refresh
herself with a turn out of doors. Betting
did not suggest that the signorina should goto
church ; the covering was a heretic, and,
since she did not attend mass, it was of
little consequence whither her steps led her.
Indeed it was better, far better, that she
should avoid, if possible, that English meeting
place, where, in Betting's opinion, there
was neither priest nor acolyte, vestment nor
ritual, where the poor heathen entered their
church without either crossing or taking the

holy water, and ranged themselves upright in
pews as if they had been at the Opera.

Take a turn down the Corso, signorina,"
she said, affectionately pinning a little bunch
of early flowers into the bosom of Detta's
dress. " I would go with you if I could, but
Aunt Scalchi is cross this morning — crosser
than usual ; and the new lodgers, the .signor
and his wife, dine early. But it will do you
good to see all the gay costumes. You should
go out more. You stop too long in the
Signor Cortauld's room. Now, signorina, one
little bunch more in your hat, and you will
look charming."

No, not in m}^ hat, Betting. I don't want
to be too fine."

Ah ! but," pouted Betting, " what a hat
for a pretty signorina to wear ! An old black
straw, with just a bow of black velvet. Nasty
thir ! "

o

And she cave it an indignant flin^]^ across
the bed.

But Benedetta resisted this addition to her
simple toilet. She had not been out since the
last Carnival Tuesday, and she had a nervous

fear of attracting attention, and being recognised
by anyone, through her walk or figure,
as the masked incognita who had sung that
days at the street corner. Oddly enough,
however, she had almost forgotten by now
the episode of the dance and of her persecutor
on that occasion, and had no fears of any unpleasant
results in consequence of it. It had
been, she fancied, merely a Carnival incident.
The Carnival was now over, and people had
once more subsided into their sober senses,
and it was not likely that she should ever
meet this man again. Nevertheless she crept
downstairs and out into the open street a little
timidly, hurrying with a hot blush past the
corner which had witnessed the wild but successful
exploit of last week. How beautiful
seemed the very streets after her four or five
days' incarceration in the gloomy old Palazzo.
The soft sweet brightness of early spring
breathed about her even here, the sky was as
blue as a sapphire, children ran about with
baskets full of sweet-scented bouquets, and
the sauntering, gaily-dressed crowds elbowed
their way with good-humoured smiles that

seemed the natural reflex of the pure atmosphere
and the unclouded morning sunshine.
The general air of happiness and untroubled
gaiety infected Benedetta as she walked along.
The fountains were playing in the Piazza del
Populo, and birds were singing merrily from
adjacent trees ; and as she made her way
through the gates (for in those days the
English barbarian was not permitted to carry
on his depraved cultus within the sacred walls
of the most holy Papal city), restrained herself
with difficulty from joining in their song.

How perfect life would be under this Italian
spring-tide were but Beresford Conway walking
beside her, and the Maestro free from care
and suffering !

The day was equally lovely, and her
heart equally light, when, an hour or two
later, the English service over, she was
returning through the same Piazza, amid the
several groups of her northern countrymen
and countrywomen. She walked slowly ;
for, although it was about the usual hour for
the mid-day meal, yet she felt a natural disinclination
to return to the chilly silence of

the Palazzo, and to leave the hot, brilliant,
sweet-smelling sunshine. She lingered on
her way, amusing herself by watching the
English couples or parties, as they passed her
one by one, feeling a half wonder in the
consciousness that she herself belonged to
them and to their nation. But in truth,
Benedetta, although in appearance so entirely
southern, was in thoughts and tastes more
English than Italian. She had been a little
uncivilised savage when she had quitted
Rome seven clears ago. All her teaching, her
refinement, the formation of her judgment,
had been acquired in England under the
influence of English lines of thought and
morality. Why was it then that she sometimes
felt for a time as if the English part of
her had merged itself in the old Italian
fancies of her childhood ; and was ungrateful
enough to look with a strange and critical
eye upon these English visitors, none of whom
she knew ?

A voice beside her roused her from her
dreamy enjoyment with a start of surprise.

Good mornings, signorina," it said. '" I

recognised you at once. Ah ! you cannot
disguise yourself from me "

And turning, Benddetta perceived, to lier
annoyance, the same man whose attentions
had been so unpleasant to her on the Carnival
Tuesday.

Fancying that it would be best to take no
notice of him, she attempted to move on
quickly without a word. But her companion
was not to be so easily disposed of. He kept
pace with her, walking at her side, and
continuing to address her in the same tone
one of exaggerated and insolent admi-i
ration.

Ah," he said, '' wherefore so cold, so
silent, signorina ? It is too cruel to runaway
from me thus. The moment I saw you
across the Piazza, I recognised your light
walk, sour graceful figure, the perfect
outline of sour face. There could be no
other signorina in Eome like you. Ah, Dio !
did not my eyes tell you on Tuesday what
my heart experienced at the first sight of
you ?

Benedetta had been hurrying forward in

the hope of shaking him ofi ; but, finding
that impossible, she paused and glanced
around her. A few English still remained in
the Piazza, together with a crowd of military,
of contadini, and of other Italians. But
there was no help to be obtained. Neither
English nor Italians would see anything
remarkable in the fact of a well-dressed man
walking beside an Italian signorina (for such
Benedetta knew she probably appeared to
outsiders). For that matter, she had no
fancy to make a scene, under any circumstances,
by attracting observation to herself ;
and the man could do her no harm, however
insolent, out here in the open daylight and
the crowded streets.

There was more of indignation than of
fear upon her face as she turned towards
him.

Signor," she said, " you appear to be a
gentleman. I am a lady, and I do not know
you. Be so good as to leave me. I do not
wish for your compau)^, and your compliments
are unpleasant to me."

The touch of involuntary scorn in the

girl's manner, the heightened colour on her
cheeks, and the flash of anger in her deep
dark eyes added greatly to her charm in the
eyes of her tormentor. He began to perceive
that he had been mistaken in his first
estimate of her position, drawn perhaps
naturally from her appearance and occupation
on the previous Tuesday; and that she
probably was, as she stated, a lady. But, on
the other hand, she was alone and unprotected,
beautiful and bewitching ; and
Paolo della Coschia was not the man to let
slip the pursuit of these advantages on the
score either of gentlemanly feeling, chivalry',
or an over-strained morality.

Ah, signorina ! " said he, " do not dismiss
me thus harshly! I am a gentleman — yes.
Allow me to have the pleasure of knowing
you and coming to see you."

Signer." she said coldly " you know
it is not the custom in Italy for gentlemen
to call upon unmarried ladies."

Ah, signorina, your pretty freak at
Carnival-time showed a^ou to be above the
narrow prejudices of our countrywomen!"

Leave me, signior," repeated Detta,
with difficulty restraining her anger. " Do
you not know that your following me thus
is an insult ? "

I am all respect, signorina. I kiss the
very dust at your feet. I plead only for one
kind word, one kind look from those beautiful
eyes."

Benedetta plunged with the energy of
despair amongst the thickest of the crowd
that thronged the Corso, without looking
behind her ; by this means managing to
escape for a time from her tormentor. But
she was still conscious that he was not far
off, and had no sooner turned the corner of
the quiet street leading to the Palazzo
Carborelli then she found him once more
beside her.

She turned towards him, indignant anger
flashing from her eyes — roused at length
into one of the rare fits of passion which
made her look like the little Detta of old,
confronting Pippo in one of their childish
quarrels.

How dare you follow me ? " she asked.

You are no gentleman ; neither have you
any manliness."

He laid this hand upon his heart with an
exaggerated air of polite humility.

Do not be angry with me," he said ; " I
can no more resist following you than can
the flowers be hindered from turning towards
the sun. But I leave you, signorina, since I
offend 3'ou."

You think," she said, " that because I am
alone, I have no one to protect me from
insult. But," — (and she thought of Vino
and his promised return) — " even I have
friends."

Her companion appeared quite undisturbed
by her scornful indignation.

The bold eyes looked at her if possible
more admiringly than before, and there was
little reality in the tone of respect with which
he replied.

Happy he who is called friend by the
signorina ! How much would I undergo to
gain such a title! May you some day,
signorina, be convinced of the depth and
sincerity of my admiration."

And, lifting this hat with a smile, intended
no doubt to be of an ingratiating character,
but which to the girl's mind gave a yet more
unpleasant look to the dark, well-featured face,
he turned away.

Benedetta's cheeks were still flushed and
her voice still quivering with anger as she
re-entered the Palazzo, exciting the curiosity
of Betting, who speedily made herself mistress
of all the details of her young signorina's unpleasant
adventure.

Ah, Dio ! " she exclaimed, nodding her
head and spreading out her hands, " this
comes of young and pretty signorine walking
about the streets alone and unattended. If
you looked English — yes, all would be well —
who would dare to speak to an English meet ?
But you — you are an Italian signorina, from
head to foot ; no one would think that you
were Meet Campbell. So they wonder to see
you alone, and they speak to you — the bad
signori. And some of the signori in Eome
are bad — ah, very bad ! You must not
go out again alone, signorina ; you must
come with me."

To this Benedetta felt herself olio-ed to
agree ; not caring however to confide even to
Betting the previous episode which had probably
brought all this trouble upon her, and
which now, in her calmer moments, it was a
matter of astonishment to her that she had
ever had the boldness to carry out — so mad,
though so successful had it been.

For the next few days, therefore, she did
not venture to stir out again alone ; and, as
Signora Scalchi at this time happened to have
several temporary lodgers who kept Betting
busily employed, so that she rarely left th
Palazzo save on some hurried errand, the time
was spent quietly enough in the Maestro's
apartment — many an hour being passed in
reading aloud to the old man, or in striving to
understand the painfully confused words put
together with so much difficulty.

She was standing one morning by her open
window, looking somewhat wistfully down
into the street below, and beyond over the
bright, many-tongued city, when Betting
entered her room in hurried excitement, an
enormous bouquet in her hands.

See, signorina," lie said, " this is for you.
Is it not beautiful ? " And indeed the flowers
were the most magnificent exotics ; and in a
moment had filled the air with their heavy
perfume .

Who sent them ? " asked Benedetta, a
quick flush, certainly not of pleasure, rising
to her cheek.

Betting laughed as she shruefo^ed her
shoulders. " Your admirer, signorina. He
is a great man — the Signer Conte della
Coschia. His man-servant brought them."

Then," said Detta, without even glancing
at the flowers, " you may throw them out of
that window, and tell the servant what you
have done !"

Ah, signorina," said Betting, " that would
surely be a pity ; they are too lovely to be
thrown away. And see here," she continued,
advancing towards her companion, " here is
something pinned round the bouquet, of
which the man said I was to be very careful.
Ah, signorina, it is a little diamond
brooch ! Oh, Dio mio ! how beautiful it
is ! " and she held out the glittering jewel

towards the signorina. But Benedetta's eyes
met hers with a glance which silenced the
hand-maiden, as, with a passionate gesture,
she suddenly seized the bouquet out of her
hand and flung it ruthlessly through the
window. It is more than possible that the
diamond brooch might have shared the same
fate, had it not been for Betting's presence of
mind.

"Nay," said the Tuscan maiden, firmly
clutching the gem, and promptly retiring
her outstretched hand, " diamonds are not
made to be thrown out into the streets foi*
the benefit of passers by ! You must be mad,
signorina Detta ! If you will, return it to
the signor ; but do not fling gold jewels about
as if they were playthings."

You are right, Betting. Take it down
to the man again, and tell him to return it to
his master."

"Ah," said Betting, regretfully gazing at
the too enticing ornament, " but it does seem
a pity to send it away As for me, I keep all
the presents they give me ; it troubles me but
little. Men are such fools, say I. They must
VOL. iir. 38

spend their money on something. Better on
an honest girl than on wine or morea or the
lottery tickets. And now the Signor Conte
will give it to some one else ! "

If that is the case," said Detta, contempt
in her tone, but unable to restrain a
smile at Betting's worldly-wise reasoning,
you had better tell him where his
bouquet lies, in order that he may make
use of that as well. I daresay it is not
much damaged."

This' appeared to Betting a joke of the first
water ; and she disappeared with alacrity to
fulfill a commission so pleasing to her own
mocking humour. In a few minutes she
returned with a sparkle of somewhat angry
triumph on her countenance.

Ah," she said, " he is a nice good-for-nothing
that fellow of a servant ! ' You
don't know my master, the Conte,' he said
when I gave him back the brooch with
your message ; ' I dare not return this to
him, he would be furious.' ' Well,' said I>
you look like a pretty rogue. I daresay
you will find no difficulty in pocketing the

jewel, and making up a lie about it!*
You do not know what he is like,' he
repeated ; 'it is of no use for your signorina
to pretend to be so coy. My master always
gets his own way in the end ; he is one who
cares for neither God nor devil.' 'That is
very likely,' said I, ' but he may not get the
better of a woman, for all that.' ' Ah,
signorina,' he said, ' how clever you are I
Your young lady may be very bewitching ;
but, were I the Signor Conte, I would prefer
the maid to her mistress ! ' ' And why should
you think, varlet,' asked I, ' that the maid
would have anything more to say to you and
your Signor Conte than has the signorina ? '
And as for me, I have no mistress ! ' ' Ah,
mia bella,' said he, ' but you will have a
master some day to control that saucy tongue
of yours ! Meanwhile do not forget me.'
And he was for kissing me. But he did not
get his kiss. ' I will give you something to
remember me by, since you are so polite,' said
I, and with that, caught him a ringing slap
upon the face, and left him rubbing his cheek.
Cospetto ! ' said he, ' but you are a little

38*

diavolo ! No fear of my forgetting you, mia
bella.' I don't think he will be in such a
hurry to make love again ; nor perhaps will
the Signor Conte trouble to send you another
bouquet'*

TIMELY RESCUE.

Betting's prophecy seemed likely to be
fulfilled. Some little time passed, and
Benedetta heard no more of the Conte or his
pushing man-servant. She still was careful to
keep to Betting's escort, and had not Sigaia
ventured out by herself since that Sunday
when he had followed her with such ungentlemanly
pertinacity. But as the days
wore on and she neither saw nor heard aught
more of either master or man, she began to
persuade herself that such precautions were
no longer necessary — that the Count had
accepted the rebuff bestowed upon him, and
that this was an isolated unpleasantness not
likely to recur. Acting on this belief she
presently discarded Betting's attendance, and
returned to her solitary walks on business or

pleasure about the city. No one molested
her, and before many days were over the
Conte della Coschia had ceased to trouble her
mind, lier thoughts, too, were busy this
week with the penning of a letter intended
for South Africa. She had not promised Mr.
Conway a reply when he wrote ; but she well
knew what pleasure her letter would bring,
and could not hide from herself the equal
pleasure to be experienced in the writing of
it. She had delayed a few days, nay, a week
or two, before sending her answer ; each
day longing to begin, and mentally inscribing
to him a different epistle, yet putting off the
actual fulfilment from a certain nervousness
which made so simple an action assume undue
proportions in her eyes. She could not
restrain herself from writing, yet in all her
life before she had never felt such difficulty
over a letter. So much was in her mind that
she wished, and dared not to express. The
result she felt was formal and constrained — a
very different letter from what she had intended.
How could she write naturally to
him now, with the simple cordiality of a

friend? It was quite impossible with that
yearning feeling to say so much more. And
yet that could not be expressed, however
much she wished it. No one could have been
more dissatisfied with the somewhat forced
and uninteresting composition produced by
this conflicting state of mind, or more mournfully
conscious of its shortcomings both in a
literary and a personal point of view than was
Detta herself, as she made her way one evening,
with the closed and directed letter in her
hand, down the Palazzo stairs. A feeling of
not unnatural shyness had prevented her from
trusting the epistle to Betting's care, having
had experience of the sharp observation and
unsparing comments of that young person
upon any subject which roused her interest
or excited her curiosity. She walked slowly
towards the post, for even at this last moment
she was debating within herself as to
whether she would not destroy the letter and
make a fresh attempt. She even paused a
moment beside the letter-box, before at
length, with a sudden movement approaching
self-contempt, she dropped it in, and then

turned to retrace her steps equally slowly,
lier mind many thousand miles away from the
streets whose pavements she trod.

It was quite dusk as she re-entered the
gateway of the Palazzo, and the courtyard
was wrapt in deepest gloom as she felt her
way up the spiral staircase. She had reached
the first landing, when a man's voice proceeding
from the corner almost beside her, caused
her to start violently.

Good evening, signorina," it said in a
mocking tone, but half-disguised by a thin
veil of politeness. " You are late out to-night,
and I — faithful still to your charms — I have
awaited your return this long time. Ah !
beautiful one, you cannot pass me by surely
without a word this time ? "

It was the voice of the Conte della Coschia,
and, as he spoke, he approached, barring the
way. Benedetta was no coward, and, at the
moment, indignation triumphing over fear,
she scorned to cry for assistance, trusting to
her own powers to free herself from her companion.


Remove yourself from out of my way,"

lie said in a tone trembling rather with anixer
than timidity, " unless you are a coward,
Signor Conte ! "

But to be called a coward by pretty lips
mattered little to Paolo della Coschia. He
laughed lightly.

No, no, mia bella, I cannot let you go so
easily. How about that bouquet which you
so scornfully Hung into the street ? Think
you a man has no feelings ? Ah ! signorina,
how I love you! But you are wise, my
pretty one, inasmuch as, though you threw
away the flowers, you did not scorn to keep
the diamond brooch."

'' You lie, signor," said Detta ; " if you
have not the brooch, it is in your servant's
hands; I returned it to 3'ou. But I wish now
that I had flung it into the street in company
with the bouquet ! "

'• Cospetto, carina ! but you are a little
tiger! I love you all the more. Bat you
shall pay for your scorn of me, mia bella."

And as she strove to pass, and to escape
from him, he suddenly flung his arm around
her.

Then at length a terrified scream burst
from the gh'l's lips, as, with sudden blind
terror, she recognised how powerless was her
feeble strength in the grasp of a full-grown
man, and how vain the weapons of scorn or
self-possession brought to bear upon one so
unscrupulous as her present persecutor.

The stone staircase was of great height ;
a considerable distance separated each flat,
and the inner doors shutting them off were
thick and heavy Had no one been upon the
stairs it would have been quite possible that
Detta's screams might not have penetrated
beyond the staircase, or brought to her the
assistance she desired.

Fortunately for her, however, some one was
already upon the upper landing — some one
who, upon the sound of her cry, sprang with
breathless rapidity down the steps and was
upon them ere either of the pair had heard
his approach.

There was a momentary pause • and then
a tall slight figure sprang upon Delia Coschia,
seizing him by the neck and shaking him
much in the ways a terrier shakes a rat. The

new assailant was certainly not an Englishman
; for lie was evidently ignorant of the
science of boxing ; but lie had sufficient of
muscular force joined to the energy of youthful
passion, to make him at this moment
more than a match for the Conte's broader
shoulders and greater height. In the space
of two seconds he had completely worsted
that nobleman and sent him — a curse upon
his lips — down the stairs with a celerity
more conducive to the satisfaction of his
aggressor than to that of his own dignity.
Then the young man turned towards Bene-delta
; and, with a cr)^ of relief, she hung
upon his arm.

Ino ! '" she exclaimed, " 0, Ino ! what
should I have done without you ? "

She was half-laughing, half crying with
the effect of her past terror and her present
relief and astonishment ; and Ino put his arm
round her tenderly to support her.

You are upset, my signorina," said he,
and no wonder. Ah ! " and he pressed his
lips together, the darkness concealing from
her the dangerous li<2:ht which gleamed in

his eyes, "let me but meet that ruffian
again ! But you shall not speak of it as yet,
Piccola."

"He did not harm me," said Detta,
beginning to recover herself. " He only put
his arm round my shoulders. But 0," and
she shuddered, "he terrified me — he is a badman.
But I shall fear him no longer now
that you are here, dear Vino."

There was no reply, unless an added
tenderness in the care with which he led heron,
could be taken as response.

Nature had bestowed upon the young
sculptor the spontaneous eloquence of his
race ; but had also bestowed upon him
feelings sometimes too deep for words, and
emotions apt, like the river — whose very
impetuosity checks its own course and dams
its twisting bed — to choke up the relieving
outlets of demonstration.

Ino had not heard of Cortauld's second
stroke; Detta's letter, written to inform him,
having gone astray owing to a few days'
visit on the demands of business to the
neighbourhood of Ferrara ; consequently

great had been the shock he experienced on
his return on being made acquainted with
the forlorn condition of his old friend. He
had already engaged a studio not far from
the Palazzo, and it had been his intention,
upon returning, to invite the Maestro to
share his home ; with characteristic generosity
taking upon himself for the future the
filial charge of the old musician.

It was only the thought of Detta, and the
reflection that possibly this course might have
the result of deciding her to rejoin her English
friends, that had made him instinctively
postpone a mention of the plan. Unselfish ashe
was, he felt that were Benedetta to take
flight from Eome, the blow would be a very
bitter one. He could not by his own act
destroy the chance once more of meeting her
and pleading his cause. Her heart still
seemed untouched, so far as he knew, by any
other ; and surely devotion such as his could
not fail in time to win some response from
one who already regarded him as her dearest
friend. So he had decided to let the matter alone
until he had seen and conversed with both.

And now he saw that it would be vain to
broach any such idea. The old man was
hopelessly bed-ridden for the rest of his
short life ; a stricken cripple, who must be
left to linger out his remaining days in the
room where he now lay. Meanwhile he could
come in daily, and visit his two friends
and by many little unobtrusive attentions
could provide luxuries for the infirm old man,
and smooth the path of the girl he loved.
And after a time he felt little discontent with
the state of affairs. Benedetta would, no
doubt, have refused to shelter herself beneath
his roof, and it was, perhaps, better that she
and the Maestro should continue together
their quiet menage — a menage in which he
was always a welcome guest.

To Benedetta's dull and solitary life the
return of Ino brought many welcome changes.
It was but natural that she should rejoice
greatly in the congenial companionship of one
of her own age ; and once again now her merry
laugh might be heard ringing through the
long lofty room as they sat together over their
evenings meal, or chatted beside the Maestro's

bed, bringing a tender smile of sympathy to
the features of the blind man. Now, too, she
was no longer a prisoner, as she had for the
last few weeks more or less felt herself to befor
Ino needed little persuasion to be her
escort on various occasions to picture galleries,
to museums, and to public gardens. It had
been terribly against the young man's prejudices
at first to give ways on this point.
The greater the honour he felt it to be to
accompany the signorina, the more had his
gentlemanly instincts recoiled from the notion
of placing her in a position which he considered
equivocal. If Benedetta had had the
appearance of an English Meet, it would have
mattered little, for English Messes were known
by everybody to have extraordinary customs,
and to be in the habit of permitting a strange
intimacy to the opposite sex. But no one
would have given her credit for her English
extraction ; and Ino could not bear to think
that anyone, attracted by her grace and
beauty, should cast a glance other than respectful
towards the idol of his veneration.
This feeling was not mitigated when, one

morning on leaving the Palazzo doorway arm-in-arm,
the girl's face being raised to his in
animated discussion, the young sculptor was
suddenly accosted by an acquaintance.

Hullo, Bartolucci ! " cried a cheery
English voice, proceeding from an unmistakeably
English youth of a good-humoured exterior,
" why, I had quite forgotten that you
hung out in Eome. I'm glad to see you
again. You remember me — Richardson ? "

Yes," replied EafFaelino courteously, but
with a sudden crimson flush on his dark face,
'' I remember you of course." And they shook
hands.

And I am sure," continued the young
Englishman, raising his hat and speaking to
Benedetta, " that I have had the pleasure of
meeting you, too, once before — at a garden-party
at Mrs. Wilding's it was. I was stopping
with some friends in the neighbourhood
Miss Campbell, is it not ? "

Detta had not the smallest recollection of
Mr. Eichardson ; but she did not doubt his
word, and chatted with him in a friendly
manner, telling him whither they were bound,

exchanging news on the subject of Mrs.
Wilding and lier cousin, and not observing
Ino's silence, or if she did so, putting it
down to the score of his imperfect knowledge
of the language in which they were
conversing.

When, however, after a few minutes' talk,
during which Mr. Eichardson had explained
that he was on but a hasty visit to Eome, and
must be returning in a day or two to town,
they separated with a cordial handshake, she
was surprised to find the silence continue, and
on glancing up to see a slight cloud upon her,
companion's brow.

'• I knew it would be so," he said at lengthy
in answer to her questionings. " That young
man will go back to England and spread a
gossip among your grand relations ; and they
will be angry with me, and you will blame
me. And it will be worse with any acquaintances
of my own country. They will say I
am wanting in respect to you, and have persuaded
you to do that which no other signorina
is permitted to do."

I have no acquaintances here, Vino."
VOL. III. 39

But I have, signorina, and they know who
you are."

Oh, then, it is for your own sake that you
dread their comments ? "

You know — you know it is for you. You
are cruel, Detta."

I wish you would care less about gossip
and more about my happiness! " she exclaimed
petulantly.

"' Your happiness — ah, Dio ! " he whispered
in a voice so full of pain and mortification
that she began to repent her of the stab she
had inflicted. His face was crimson, and he
vainly sought words by which to exculpate
and explain himself.

Forgive me, amico mio," she said. " I
didn't mean to be cross. I know you never
think about yourself, and that you care a
great deal too much about my happiness.
You are only a dear old prim Ino, who wants
to do his duty by a mad young Englishwoman.
I was a prisoner in the Palazzo before you
came. It was hard to be pent up like
that. I have been a free bird all my life ;
and, whatever the cost, I will not be imprisoned

again. But," she added, with a smile,
half-proud half-caressing, "you shall not
come with me if you think it best not. I
will go alone."

And so her wilful determination gained
the day ; and Ino, only too ready to be
her slave, consoled himself with a thrill of
joy by the thought that if indeed heaven
brought to pass his dearest wish, and gave
this girl to him to be his wife, it mattered
little that the gossips of Eome should accuse
her of strange insular ways, little according
with their notions of the comme il faut. And
day by day his passion burnt the more
brightly, fed by the flame of a growing
hope.

How could he but hope, with no rival
by, with Detta always ready to welcome
his presence, to accept his escort, and
treating him daily more and more in the
light of a dear and intimate friend ?
These days of a deceitful hope, were
perhaps the happiest the young sculptor
had ever known.

His secret joy betrayed itself in his voice

39*

and countenance ; while — so blind are those
nearest and dearest to us when absorbed
by dreams of their own — Detta, who loved
him with all a sister's genuine affection
and would have done much to ward off
pain from the heart she knew to be so
faithful — Detta, hearing his bright tone and
seeing his unclouded face, little suspected
the true reason of his light-heartedness, but
congratulated herself that at last Ino had
shaken off the temporary fancy he had
entertained of being her lover, and was
settling down with her own contented enjoyment
with the happier relations of brother
and sister.

Benedetta was but nineteen. She was too
young to realise the fact that a platonic intimacy
of brother and sister betwen two
persons both young, beautiful and loveable,
is (unless the affections of one or both
be pre engaged) a thing so rare as to be
almost unknown in this world of ours.
With her mind full of another man, and
so capable herself of the platonic sentiment,
she, however, like many in a like

position, was inclined to be wanting indiscrimination.


What she could not see had been already-perceived
by the blind and crippled musician.

*' God bless you, my boy," he said one
night as he held Ino's hand in his ; " she
is a sweet woman and a true one, and you
are worthy of her."

Is there hope for me ? " asked the young
man eagerly. " Do you think there is any
hope ? You know her. Maestro."

Why should there not be hope ? " said
Cortauld in his broken tones ; " what is these
against sou ? There is no one else ; and
you, Ino mio — can she look for a better
husband than you will make her ? Ah,"
he muttered to himself more softly, "I
should like to see my two children united
before I die."

Meanwhile alas ! the " someone else " it
was thoughts of whom filled Benedetta's
heart each night as she lay down to sleep
in her little three-cornered room at the top
of the old Palazzo. She calculated, as the
days went by, when he would receive her

letter ; and that time passed, began, lialf-
unconsciously, to calculate low soon she
might look for a reply.

Hers had been but a poor and worthless
effusion ; yet the mere fact of her
writing would show him that she thought of
him, that she was interested in his welfare,
and in some measure cared for him.

Would he reply at once ; and if so,
after what fashion ? This was the question
which now filled the girl's mind and occupied
all her spare moments.

It was text sufficient for meditation night
and day ; whilst the very delay necessarily
ensuing between her letter and his answer,
was but a period of happy waiting, in which
hope deferred was a prolonged anticipation of
coming pleasure.

During these weeks of blissful anticipation,
Benedetta grew more beautiful than she had
ever been before ; a secret glow shone in her
dark eyes and an added tenderness spoke from
her lips when at rest ; and perhaps it was not
to be wondered at that Ino day by day looked
upon her with an admiration more approaching

reverential awe than is often offered upon
a woman's shrine, in this our practical and
prosaic world. ' Never a work left his studio
now, whether of ancient goddess or of modern
maid, but bore some faint resemblance to the
girl he loved ; though he was himself,
perhaps, unaware of the fact. It had become
impossible for him to conceive of beauty-other
than built upon the lines of his ideal.
And yet, so far from this giving a sameness
a monotony to his compositions, his touch
had become more tender, his eye more true ;
and his fame, alike with his skill, increased
daily as it had never done before.

But the very intensity of the young
sculptor's desires increased his caution. He
would not startle her again, as he had done
that first time in London ; he would wait
until he was sure, quite sure, that his words
would bring no flush save that of joy upon
the soft cheek, and that her hand would be
willing to meet his stretched towards her with
so great a yearning.

And, all unwitting of the feelings in his
breast, Benedetta went on her way, calmly,

brightly and busily. She had plenty to do
now ; for she often made her way to the
picture galleries, and, with Ino's help, had
commenced making copies of some of the less
severe works of the great masters. Partly
through his assistance, too, she had heard of
one or two more pupils, whom she instructed
in singing. It was a great satisfaction to
Detta to feel herself once more in the way of
earning something. She had no pride at all
about the matter, and unaffectedly enjoyed
both the acquaintance and tuition of her new
pupils. She laughed merrily when Ino at
first combated the idea of her seeking employment
; declining to listen for an instant to his
dissuasions on the subject, and forcing him at
last, as she always did, not only to cease
opposing her, but even to assist her. And so
the days, full of healthy occupation and a
happy looking forward, passed by rapidly,
and closed invariably in the same manner.
However busy, however exciting had been the
morning, the evening was always the same ;
and nothing would have tempted Detta to
relinquish for any other pursuits the last

hour or two spent by the bedside of the
Maestro, when, with the blind face turned
towards hers, its weary sadness half dispelled,
and with the withered hand lying in hers,
she would tell him in her bright young voice
of all that had been seen and done that day —
nay, much of what she had felt and thought.
To the old man, that hour or two of the
twilight, breaking in upon his life's darkness
with fresh ideas and with delicate fancies,
were the brightest of the twenty-four ; and
were looked forward to with a silent expectation
of enjoyment which lightened the
burden of many dreary moments.

T<5 — Zgi

TWO DIAMOND-DIGGERS.

SINCE turning the last page we have
traversed several thousand miles, and now
find ourselves at the town of Kimberley in the
province of Griqualand, South Africa. Town
it was called, but the streets were then little
better than half-ploughed ditches, and the
shops consisted chiefly of spirit stores. There
was little attempt at regularity in the
arrangement of the houses, some of which
were entirely of corrugated iron, others of
metal roofs and canvas sides. They were
scattered about hither and thither in all
directions at every conceivable angle, and
facing to any quarter, according to the
individual taste or pleasure of each separate
owner ; so that the place resembled an ill-arranged
camp rather than anything that

to modern ideas could be called a town.
Where every dwelling-place had been flung
down at random, the distinction of streets
appeared a somewhat sarcastic and useless
subscription to modern weakness. It was
certainly difficult in Kimberley, unless long
residence or a wide circle of acquaintance
had proved exceptionally enlightening, to
find out the abode of a friend, amidst a
congregation of huts of which one differed
from another merely in size ; and where too
there was the added inconvenience that
your friend, having grown tired of the
position of his house, might have hired a
score or so of blacks and had it transferred
bodily to some new position ! Quite on the
outskirts of the town, at a spot where the
huts were but thinly sprinkled over the brown
monotonous, far-reaching veldt, stood one
before which were seated the figures of two
young men. One at least was seated on a
barrel beside the open door, his legs dangling
and a short pipe between his lips ; the other,
also smoking, lay face downwards, heels in
the air and his face resting on his hands, upon

a mattress which he had draGfc^ed to the
entrance, so that his head was outside and his
feet inside the narrow domicile. Both were
in their shirt-sleeves, and both were tanned
brown as mahogany ; yet an intelligent
stranger would probably have guessed, from
a nameless something about their appearance,
that both were gentlemen. Presently the
younger of the two — the man lounging with
so much comfort upon the mattress — broke
the silence. " I think," he said, lifting
himself up slowly and beginning to shake
out the ashes of his pipe, " I shall clean
myself up and take a turn round to see
Mrs. Ba3dey."

Mrs. Bailey was the wife of a government
official receiving six hundred a year pays, and
who on this liberal income, was enabled in
this part of the world (by dint of good management
and careful economy) to keep one
servant, and to possess a little three-roomed
house — of corrugated iron like all the rest —
with a square garden the size of a pocket-handkerchief
in front. She, was however, a
lady ; perhaps the only English lady in this

new out-of-tlie way colony of rough spirits
and adventurers.

Lie had two pretty children, and was
herself a gentle, sweet-faced woman, sorely
tried by the roughness and discomforts of
her position ; bat, with the spirit of a true
wife and patient Englishwoman, uttering no
complaint and making the best of a hard
necessity. Even in a place like Kimberley
there were a certain per-centage of men with
sufficient of the instincts of youth, of natural
tenderness or of gentlemanliness, to take
pleasure in the unusual sight of a refined
woman, and of a room which, though tiny,
was tastefully arranged ; and to feel their
hearts grow soft at the sight of little children,
reminding them perhaps of home and the
old half-forgotten family life. Hence it was
rather the fashion amongst the better sort to
go round of an evening now and then and
look up Mrs. Bailey and her husband.

Are you coming ? " asked the young man
on the mattress, turning to his companion.

Not to-night, thanks, Nisbet."

Fagged ? "

No, not particularly, I don't feel inclined
for society, that's all."

Going to moon, I suppose ? Tell you what
it is, old fellow, you look seedy the last day
or two. That infernal book work does not
suit you."

Oh, it suits me well enough," returned
the other between the puffs of his pipe.
" You are too old, you know, Conway. A
man requires elasticity for this kind of life.
What's your age ? "

Thirty-one," said Beresford, with a quiet
smile at his companion's bluntness. " Quite a
Methuselah, ain't I ? "

Well, you see it's late to throw off former
habits, and begin roughing it for the first
time. It wears a man out to try it on. Now
I," and he shook his tall slight figure with a
boyish self-assurance, " enjoy the thing
thoroughly."

Beresford smiled again.

I don't think I am wearing out," he
remarked, " as yet." And in truth his well-knit,
athletic form bore no unfavourable
comparison to the slimmer proportions of

the youth beside him. " And as for enjoyment,
I never enjoyed any six months so
much in my life ; 'till the last month at least,
since we came up to this place."

It is rather a beastly hole, I must admit,"
said young Nisbet.

A furnace of fleas," remarked Conway ;
and not a square inch of shade."
Nor society," added his companion.
Oh, well, as to society, I'm sick of that,"
said the ex-man of fashion with sincerity ;
shirt sleeves and a short pipe are far preferable
to any society in my opinion."

That's an odd thing for you to say,'^
observed Nisbet, "for I suppose you have
gone in for it pretty freely. There was
nothing, I presume, to prevent your taking
up shirt sleeves and a short pipe at any time,
if you had liked ? "

No," said his friend, leaning back against
the iron wall and closing his eyes dreamily ;
nothing, except the slavery of custom and
social etiquette — the ignorance of the upper
classes. What an age ago it seems ! "
By Jove, doesn't it," said young Nisbet.

And then they both relapsed into silence
broken presently by the whistling of th(
younger man as he disappeared within th(
house to go through the process of " cleaning
up."

In a few minutes he re-appeared with his
hair well brushed, and a coat on his back ,
looking a fair sample of a straightforward,
flat-shouldered young Englishman.

Beresford was still leaning back against the
house-wall, slowly swinging his feet, his face
surrounded by the little eddying circles of
smoke.

I say," said Msbet, pausing as he passed.
what a lazy fellow you are ! I wonder
how many hours you spend every evening.
mooning on that barrel half-asleep ? Yo
ought to have been a poet, Conway."

A poet in a soda-water manufactory
incongruous, don't it, Jim? But II:
thinking of something."

You ? " asked his companion incr
dubiously, " you haven't enough energy i
think of anything."

Quick as lightning Conway was off 1

barrel, and with the aid of one foot and one
hand had laid Jim Nisbet neatly on the
ground.

Hullo ! What's that for ? " inquired the
prostrated youth, leaping up. " That's mean,
Conway, confoundedly mean, when you know
I've got my best togs on and can't close with

you!"

Don't, pray don't," said Beresford, who
had resumed his favourite seat ; " it's far too
hot for any such thing ; it was only my
superfluous energy."

And the thought ? "

The thought is — that you mustn't be
astonished some day when you come home
to find the house gone. They, are settling
all round us now, and shutting us in. I
think we must remove further out into the
veldt again. I want breathing space. Or

perhaps " And he paused a moment,

speaking more lazily and deliberately than
before, " you may find me gone."

You don't mean that ? " asked his friend
with a change of manner.

There's no knowing. I'm an erratic
VOL. m. 40

chap. I sometimes think of trying my luck
elsewhere ; or possibly returning to Europe."

Young Msbet's face grew serious.

Don't do that, Conway," he said ; " surely
you won't ? Just when we are getting on so
well, too, and I have had so much luck.
A few months more will make our fortunes ;
and then wee can do as we like, and leave this
filthy hole together."

Don't distress yourself. I daresay I
shan't go," returned Conway. Then glancing
up and seeing a certain change on his companion's
face, due probably to some softer
and more genial feelings he added : "Of
course I shouldn't go without letting you
know, old fellow. But sometimes one feels
as if the Kimberley society palled upon one
a little."

"Though," said his companion a little
scornfully, " you enjoy roughing it so much !
You are not made of settler's stuff! " And
with that he disappeared round the corner of
the hut on his way to the Valleys' house, not
many hundred yards distant.

Conway finished his pipe with deliberation.

and then rose slowly and entered the hut.
Within were the two beds, a table, a seat or
two, and several boxes, upon which were
massed a heterogeneous company of cooking
utensils, washing utensils, and various other
household gods. A little mirror, barely a
foot square, and hung against one of the
walls, was all the looking-glass provided to
minister to the vanity of the two Englishmen,
or to assist them in their shaving operations ;
but, on the other hand, a large bath, an exceedingly
expensive luxury in this part of the
world, where every pint of water had \\^
stated value, was propped up against one
corner of the small apartment.

Flinging open one of the boxes, and thereby
scattering to the ground an endless assortment
of goods belonging to himself and his companion,
Conway drew from it ink and writing
materials. Then dragging the box after him
into the open, he placed the paper upon it,
and throwing himself upon the ground, prepared
to write his letter.

He and James Nisbet had now spent several
weeks together in this limited and stifling

40*

den, wliicli little deserved the dignified
name of house. The acquaintance had been
made under somewhat peculiar circumstances,
and had quickly ripened into friendship
between the two. Beresford had been
making his way northwards when he first
encountered his companion. He had grown
tired of the Boer family and his tutorial
duties, and had determined to push on
towards Kimberley to see what diamond
mining was like. He had a small capital
with him, and intended to try his own hand
at the uncertain pastime. It seemed to him
that it would interest him to see for himself
something of this rough, wild mining population,
of whom every Englishman has heard
and read so much — to join in their pursuits —
and to study the strong lawless characters
which there would be sure to abound ; while,
on the other hand, he was as likely as most
men — probably more likely than a drunkard
or a gambler — to come in for a stroke of luck
which, when gained, he was far less likely to
lose.

So he had started up country, doing part of

the distance in a mail cart, which, among two
or three other passengers, was likewise conveying
young Nisbet, then a stranger to him.
On the second day of their journey an accident
had happened. Dusk was coming on,
and a river having to be forded, the driver,
either from negligence or ignorance failing to
choose the best spot for the crossing, dashed
in where the torrent was sufficiently high and
the opposite bank sufficiently steep to all but
upset the cart, and to place the whole party
in danger of their lives. As it was, with a
determined effort and a terrific jerk, the
horses, fortunately fairly fresh, gained the
opposite bank in safety ; but the jolt had
unseated everyone in the conveyance, and
one— young Nisbet — had failed to retain his
hold, and, falling into the black, eddying
stream, had been swept off his feet by the
raging torrent.

For a moment nothings seen of him —

o

then there was a gleam of something white,
and Conway jumped quickly off the bank into
the river. The young man was evidently
being swept away, and without assistance

would be drowned. Conway was a powerful
man and a good swimmer, and, as he dropped
into the stream and felt himself unable to
resist its course, he struck out boldly towards
a slight bend lower down, from whence he was
able to rescue Msbet's body as it floated by,
and then to hold on until both could be drawn
up the steep activity. But, this having been
done, it was found that the younger man was
quite insensible, and in no condition to proceed
on his journey. He was conveyed to the
nearest house, which happened to be that of a
Boer farmer ; where, after hurried reflection,
Conway decided to remain also, leaving the
mail cart to go on its way without him. The
other three passengers were storekeepers —
Africanders — rough men hardened to accident
and suffering, either to themselves or
others — men who would have felt but little
compunction in leaving the half drowned
youth to the tender mercies of unfriendly
Boers.

These latter would certainly not have
troubled themselves to make any particular
efforts for his restoration ; and it seemed to

Conway little less than murder to leave the
youth in his present condition in their hands.
So he remained behind deploring his ill luck,
only by means of mingled threats and
bribery inducing his hosts to continue the
necessary active measures. But when at
length the suspended animation returned,
three days of fever supervened, and after that
two or three more of prostration, so that it
was fully a week later before the two started
afresh on their road to the diamond fields.

By that time Beresford knew everything
about his companion that was to be known*
James Nisbet was twenty-two years of age,
the son of a clergyman in the south of England.
He had run away from home, and made his
way out to the Cape without informing his
parents, simply from a love of adventure, a
hatred of the office life to which he had been
condemned, and a wish to escape from the
strict supervision and apparently somewhat
harsh treatment of his father. He was a wild
young fellow, not without his failings, but
withal straightforward and warm-hearted,
nor by any means wanting in mother-wit.

He was a pleasant companion, and the grateful
affection with which he repaid the kindness
Conway had shown to him was not unpleasant
to the other.

He confessed to his new friend that, since
coming to Africa, he had often been led into
an over-indulgence in strong drinks ; and,
indeed, that the cause of his falling off the
cart the evening when Conway had saved his
life, was owing to a drowsiness induced by
his incessant potations that day. He had
demurred a good deal, but finally given in,
when his companion had insisted upon his
becoming a total abstainer ; but already was
willing to acknowledge that he had never
taken a wiser step in his life. Under
Conway's influence, too, he had written to
inform his parents of his whereabouts and
his plans ; and, having fully recovered his
strength, and got rid of every weight upon
his conscience, was now about as light-hearted
a young fellow as could be found within the
length and breadth of Kimberley. On first
arriving at the fields, Conway had invested
the small capital lie had with him in the

purchase of a claim, worked together by
himself and his comrade. But the labour
soon palled upon Beresford. He had little
of the gambling spirit which rendered it so
exciting to most of his neighbours ; and,
although of a strong and active frame, had
in truth, as Nisbet said, passed the age when
a man, brought up to the life of an English
gentleman, can turn with any satisfaction
to mere manual labour. He, therefore,
relinquished the work after a week or two ;
placing, with characteristic generosity, the
claim bought by his capital, unreservedly
in his companion's hands, to be carried on
by him on the basis of shared profits. He
had then accepted the post which he now
held — that of accountant and overseer at a
soda-water manufactory — a dull position,
which he was already beginning to think might
be changed for the better. He had almost
got over the relish with which his plebeian
occupations had at first inspired him, and
the humorous enjoyment of sitting on a
bank of earth in miner's clothes, his well-kept
hands soiled with mud, and a short clay

pipe between this lips ; or standing in this
linen suit contemplating rows of soda-water
bottles, and adding up in a big ledger the
weekly returns of the firm whose servant he
was. Since coming to Kimberley, he had
begun to experience at times a great disgust
of his coarse surroundings, and a corresponding
lom^inof for the refinements of home.

o DO

Certainly, if a man, once accustomed to
civilisation, would be likely anywhere to
realise its vanished charms, it would be ina
colony of this sort, where three-fourths of
his fellow-men are drunkards, roues, or
gamblers, and where the remaining fourth
can neither read nor write. An educated
man coming into such a region, is apt (when
the first novelty of the life has worn offhand
if neither besotted by drink, nor maddened
by the love of speculation) to be seized
at times with unexpected and passionate
spasms of home sickness — of yearnings after
some place where his neighbours could open
their lips without an oath, where a meal was
sometimes eaten off a table-cloth with the
assistance of other than not an over-clean

clasp-knife, and where one per cent, of the
community possessed a book, or could quote
a line of Shakespeare. Had it not been for
young Nisbet, I think ere this Mr. Conway
would have made good his escape from the
region of pickaxe and basket, and returned
to the more congenial occupations to be
found in agricultural districts. He often
thought now what a fool he had been to
throw up that business, one of the first
he had enixa^'ed in, of overlooking: the line
of railway workers, all in the open air and
on horseback as it had been ; and thought to,
himself that if he remained in Africa, he
must try to get another such post, or better
still, perhaps, endeavour to join the Cape
Mounted Police. But these ideas were sorely
against James Msbet's wishes ; and for his
sake, Conway delayed putting them into
execution. The young man, notwithstanding
his late misadventure, was one whose
steps seemed always attended by good luck.
During the short time that he had worked
the claim, he had already had several finds
of no inconsiderable value, and looked

forward, not, perhaps, unreasonably, to
making a rapid fortune both for himself
andjiis partner.

I have already doubled the capital you
invested," he had said a day or two before
this ; " is not that enough ? " Conw^ay was
bound to confess that it was enough —
perhaps more than any man had a right to
expect in the short space of four or five
weeks. " And," continued his companion
with the hopefulness begotten of previous
luck, "give me six months, and you shall
have a thousand pounds for every hundred
you laid out."

And Conway, moved by the lad's entreaties,
had more than half promised to give him the
six months.

"If I don't, Jim," he had said, "you will
be no loser, but the contrary ; for I will only
take the original sum invested with me, and
will leave you the undivided benefit of the
claim."

But the last few days the home-sickness
had grown stronger within him ; and something
had occurred which made him feel it

just possible that he might quit Kimberley
or even the continent of Africa at shorter
notice.

This something was a letter which he now
took from his pocket and spread out on the
box before him.

It was a long chatty letter from cousin
Fanny, as he called her, received and read
some days before, but which he now turned
over to find a particular passage. The
passage which he studied carefully was
this :

"Now I must tell you some news about
your friend Detta. She is, as perhaps you
know, still in Eome, and is going to marry
that handsome young sculptor, her old playmate,
whom, of course, you remember meeting
at our house that last happy year when we
were in London, before this horrible trouble
and loss came upon us all. Young Charles
Eichardson has just come from Eome, where
he met them together, and he says there is
no doubt at all about it. Of course one
always knew it must end that way, thrown
together as they have been. I fancy they

have been in love with each other ever since
they were children ; and although at first it
sounds like a mesalliance, yet, when one comes
to think of it, it is not such a bad thing. He
is, I believe, a respectable young fellow, fairly
refined for his class, and will, I daresay, make
her a good husband ; and, young Eichardson
tells me, is considered a very rising man in
Eome. And Detta, after all, is half an
Italian herself, with no family to boast of on
her mother's side. And I really don't see
what home she could have found in England ;
for she has, I hear, quarrelled wicli her Aunt
Dumbarton ; and I am far too poor now to
keep anybody but myself ; and it is Quixotic
nonsense on the part of Arthur and Eva to say
they can. I wish you could see Eveleen in
her new capacity as mistress of her small
household," etc., etc., etc.

Conway folded up the letter and returned
it to his pocket ; then took up his pen, and
with a firm hand, wrote a few lines on the
sheet before him.

Whilst doing so, a shadow fell before him,
and he glanced up.

Oil, it's you, Spider, is it ? " he remarked.


"Do any tiling for you to-night, Boss?"
enquired the tall Zulu who stood leaning
against the entrance of the house beside
him.

Well, let me see, Charlie. Yes, there are
two or three things on the floor inside. Bring
them out and wash them. And be careful you
don't take too much of our precious
water."

The Zulu grinned and chuckled as he
obeyed, first, however, glancing towards his
employer with an ingratiating air, well
understood by the latter.

"Where's your pipe? " he demanded.

And forthwith an old brown pipe was
pulled out of the man's waistband, and
presented to Conway, who stuffed it full of
tobacco.

Then Charlie entered to do his work,
and the Englishman continued his letter.

"Spider Charlie," so called from the
length of his lanky limbs and his somewhat
ungainly movements, was a well-known

personage to many of the inhabitants
of Kimberley, and a special favourite
with Conway and his companion. He was a
finely built native of intelligent expression
and good character ; and was often employed
on odd jobs of one sort and another by them
jobs for which he was amply rewarded by
a liberal allowance of tobacco and an occasional
insignificant present in the way of
cash.

Either he was prompt over his work, or
Conway was slow, for the one had finished
what he had been set to do before the other
had concluded his letter ; and finding the
Englishman disinclined for conversation,
had sloped off and vanished into the
distance.

It was now quite dusk, and Conway could
barely see to write his concluding words ;
and without reading over what he had
written, he folded up the sheet and closed
and addressed the envelope.

Then he pushed the box from him, and
rising, began slowly to pace to and fro upon
the withered grass.

"I may as well know the truth," he was
saying to himself ; " and I think she will tell
me as soon as anyone. If it be so, then there
is an end of everything. If it be not true —
she has no home in England — she shall
hear once more that what little I have now to
offer her is at her disposal. She may prefer
me to homelessness, if she do not care for her
sculptor. But she does care."

The heavy dew was falling, penetrating
through his shirt and wetting him to the
very skin ; and the brilliant stars of a
tropical night began to flame out overhead
Beresford Conway heeded neither the
discomforts of the one nor the glories of the
other. He was full of a new bitterness. It
was late in life to realise, for the first time,
that his vaunted callousness was a delusion,
and that he was not to be exempted
from that boyish ardour of emotion, which, in
other men had so constantly evoked his smile
of calm amusement ; nor from the mortification
which he had been wont to say no woman's
caprices should have the power to rouse in
men of sensible and well-regulated minds.

VOL. III. 41

REVENGE DELAYED.

Spring was merging into summer in the

[^

Eternal City. Easter with its illuminations,
its processions, its gorgeous services
and shows, had long since passed ; the Campagna,
still untouched by the coming drought,
lay waving in the sunshine its vast expanse of
virgin green ; and the little flowers and ferns
that burst from every stone of the Coliseum
and smiled upon the ground once watered by
the blood of martyrs or trodden by the feet of
emperors, had scarcely as yet withered away
under the glaring rays of the summer sun.
The month of May, so beautiful a month in
Eome, was in fact still in its youth ; and
Benedetta had but just begun to tell herself
that she might any day now look forward to
the arrival of that letter from Africa which

hope told her would surely not be delayed.
Pleasant weeks they had been to Detta, full
of interest and occupation ; whilst to
Eaffaelino Bartolucci — seeing her each day,
devoting leisure moments to the congenial
task of educating her artistic eye and facile
pencil, pacing with her through picture
galleries, over the soft turf of palace gardens
embroidered by the dancing shadows of the
trees, or seated beside her in the dim soothing
quiet of Cortauld's room — they represented a
short dream of perfect happiness. Since his
arrival and the day when he had so speedily
put to flight her tormentor down the stairs of
the Palazzo, Benedetta had been troubled no
further with the insulting attentions of the
Conte della Coschia. Twice since that
occasion she had seen him ; once at San
Pietro during the Easter-day services, and
once again in the gallery of the Vatican ;
but on each occasion Ino had been beside
her and the Conte at some little distance ;
and although she felt conscious that the
unpleasant eyes were fixed upon herself, he
had made no effort to approach or in any

41*

way molest her. The only event of any
particular interest which occurred about
this time was the arrival of an interesting
communication from her cousin, or rather
from Major Drew. In it he informed her,
half-humorously, half in sober congratulation,
that he was now a father ; and
that not of one child only, but of a pair of
great fat babies ! Major Drew did not
appear at all discomfited by this sudden
addition to his household ; but seemed, on
the contrary, in the best of spirits, and quite
of the opinion that two babies were better
than one.

It was nearly a week since their advent,
and Eva was going on splendidly ; while
as for the " two little beggars," they were as
lively as rabbits, the colour of boiled lobsters,
and in every way declared to be most
satisfactory both by the nurse and Mrs.
Wilding. By the bye, did Detta know that
Mrs. Wilding had been persuaded to come
and live with them for good and all ? That
house of the Carleton' in the north was so
big and gloomy, it was dreariness itself, with

only two servants ; and expensive besides in
many ways ; far from the town also and short
of decent society. So she was going to put
up her horses — (figuratively speaking now,
alas ! poor Mrs. Wilding) — at any-rate for a
time, with Eveleen and himself. Then
followed kindly inquiries after her welfare,
and a notice to the effect that he had been
commissioned by his wife to write this letter ;
and Major Drew remained her affectionate
cousin Arthur. A few pencilled words
written by Eva were however enclosed.

"I am horribly ashamed of myself," she
wrote, " Arthur seems to think I have done
rather a clever thing, but I feel (and I know
mamma thinks, though she won't say it), that
twins are dreadfully vulgar. I suppose I must
go in for two nurses, unless I can find one
strong enough to carry a baby on each arm,
and to attend to both at the same time when
they squall, which — dear little healthy things !
they are always doing more or less. And
about yourself, Detta ? Are you ever coming
back to England ? Ah ! I fear you area
sly girl and are treating us badly A

little bird has told me something which I
think sou might have confided to me at all
events. Haven't been in love too, carina,
with my blessed old Arthur, and for that
matter am still ? So be quick and tell everything,
like a good girl, to your loving
Eva'

Benedetta's cheeks had flushed hotly on
readings this little enclosure. How was it
that Eva knew her secret ? What little bird
could have flown from Eome to lay bare to
her cousin thoughts and feelings which she
had believed hidden, unperceived by anyone,
in the innermost recesses of her heart ?

The thought of Eva, little fair Eva, with
her two fat babies, brought an involuntary
smile to her face. She must write at once
and congratulate her cousin. But, however
unkind Eveleen might pretend to think it,
she could not answer that little personal
inquiry ; nor would she admit that she had
any confidences to bestow. Perhaps, some
day, there might be something to tell ; but
not now, not yet.

So the-reply, a long and loving one, was

sent without delay ; but in it no mention was
made of the subject upon which Eva had
expressed her curiosity. And her cousin
receiving the letter, nodded her head sagely,
remarking to her husband : " Ah, you see it
is quite true, Arthur. She says nothing
about it, and that's a sure sign it's on, though
not perhaps quite settled. They will be a
handsome couple. Poor Beresford ! I don't
know why, but 1 always fancied he had more
than half a tendresse in that direction. And
he was always so difficult to please ; I never
knew him take a fancy to any other girl."

"' Except you, my darling."

Rubbish ! He never cared a straw forme
in that way. Well, I am sorry ; it would
have been jolly if those two had made it up
together. Now I suppose I shall never see
her again."

The one other incident affecting Benedetta
this spring was the departure of Betting.
Betting, alas ! this time was going for good
and all ; as, with a few tears and blushes and
many smiles, she informed the signorina.
Carlo had got a little house ready for her.

He had been very patient — he had waited for
her these three years ; and she had promised
to marry him ere the summer was over.

Betting's ideas upon the subject of matrimonial
bUss were not extravagant.

We shall get on," she said, " as well as
most married folks. He is not a drunkard,
and he will not beat me, for he has always
been a lazy, good-natured fellow. yes,"
and she shrugged her shoulders, blushing a
little, " he is not a bad sort, this Carlo, and I
like him well enough. It will be better living
in a little house and garden of one's own, than
to listen all day long to the scolding of the
Aunt Scalchi."

Nevertheless, her bright face, and the
pretty glow in her dark eyes revealed more
than Betting cared to acknowledge of her
little secret of unavowed happiness.

I hope he will be good to you," said
Benedetta. She was sorry, more than she
could say, for Betting's departure ; it was not
only that she should miss the gay voice and
merry talk of the Tuscan girl, but she would
lose one who had a real affection for her, and

who was almost the sole companion she
possessed in this great city, of her own age
and sex.

Si, si, signorina," replied Betting ; " he
will be good enough for me. Stupid of
course, as men generally are — but all the
less likely perhaps to ruin himself at the
lottery, or make a fool of himself, like the
clever ones so often do. If it were not for
leaving you I should be quite content. But
you will miss me. Bianca, who is coming, is
cross and disagreeable — very different from
me. She is also short and stout and ugly.
But she will not stop here long, for she hasa
temper like the evil one ; and when the
Aunt Scalchi scolds her, she will give it
her back again, word for word. It will be
hammer, hammer, hammer, ' brut-brut,' all
day long." And she took up the signorina's
hands and kissed them affectionately. " Dear
signorina, don't forget me ! " she said, the
tears hanging on her long dark lashes.

So Betting had gone, and Bianca, the new
handmaiden, had taken her place. Bianca
was, as the other had said, short, and stout,

and ugly. Iter appearance was not attractive,
her expression being sulky ; whilst her
temper, after the first few days, appeared
quite of the character described by Betting.

July was now approaching, and Benedetta,
undaunted by last year's sufferings, prepared
to spend another summer in the Italian
capital. As yet the weather was only
brilliant, not oppressive ; and both she and
Ino had now too many interests in life to
trouble themselves about a little heat more
or less. The foreign visitors, however, were
departing from the city, leaving it pretty
much to the workers, and to those whose
home it was.

The last few months had done much to
better Ino's position, and to put his name
before the world as that of a rising artist ;
and his growing success was a source of
much exultation to his two friends in the
Palazzo.

It was often a theme for congratulation on
Benedetta's lips ; and she was talking of it
one afternoon, as together they made their
way home from the picture gallery where she

had for some time been engaged in copying,
and whence he had been to fetch her. The
streets were crowded, for there had been
some races that day in the vicinity ; and
many a passer-by turned to glance admiringly
at the beautiful face uplifted so eagerly to
his.

Another commission, Ino ? " she was saying.
" Why, you will be a great man even
before we thought. Stay, I begin to think
you are a great man already."

He was about to reply, when the sound of
some words uttered behind caused him to
pause.

Ah ! " said a voice, as its owner laughed
sneeringly, "that's the fellow, just in front,
who put up the new statue at the entrance to

the Palazzo L . Goes in for being a

genius ; but has all his ideas second-hand, I
hear, from Greville, the Parisian."

Bartolucci glanced round. Not a word had
escaped him ; but he could see that, absorbed
as she had been by her own conversation, the
speech had been inaudible to Detta. At the
same moment a party of three young men

pushed by them somewhat roughly. The trio
were well-dressed, and had the air of gentlemen,
and the one nearest him was, he saw at
a glance, the Conte della Coschia — the man
who, two months ago he had precipitated
down the Palazzo stairs. That the Conte
fully recognised him was shown clearly
enough — without taking into account the
insolence of his words — by the still more
insolent expression of the gaze he fixed upon
Vino.

Although, as a rule, gentle to a fault, the
young sculptor was not devoid of Southern
warmth. He was by no means the man to
pass by a malicious libel, nor yet a push
given with studied rudeness and malice prepense
in the public street. The blood rose
quickly to his cheeks, and he determined that
the Conte should hear again with reference to
his lying taunt. But, at the moment, he controlled
himself for the sake of his companion ;
and, with some difficulty checking the quick
retort which rose to his lips, contented himself
with squaring his elbow so as to force the
Conte to step aside into the roadway. But

the latter was in no mood to receive a rebuff
quietly, neither was he sufficient of a gentleman
to refrain from open quarrelling on the score
of a young girl's presence. In the company
of his two friends also — men of his own stamp
he felt it necessary to uphold his dignity,
and perfectly convenient to employ a bullying
tone. He was not sorry, too, perhaps to include
the girl who had repulsed his attentions
in the insult he desired to put upon her
companion.

How now, Signer Culture, do you require
all the pathway to yourself? " he asked.
And are you in the habit of pushing gentlemen
into the street ? "

The reply was quiet enough.
I shall certainly push those into the street
who cannot make room for a lady."

A loud laugh followed his words. They
were now close to the angle of their own via,
and Ino hurried Benedetta forward, not, however,
in time to save her overhearing light
words, said with the intent, as he well knew,
to wound not only his own but her self-respect.
They had no sooner reached the

corner than he paused a moment, speaking
hurriedly :

Go in," he said, " do not delay. I
must leave you. I have to speak to this

man."

Do not quarrel with him, Ino," she said,
raising her eyes earnestly towards him. " He
is not worth it," she added, even while her
own cheeks were flushed and her voice trembled
with indication. But he signed to her
with an imperative gesture to go on, and,
though he smiled, Detta noticed, as she
obeyed, that his lips were white with anger.
In another instant he had turned, and faced
the trio as they came up the street.

Now, Signor Conte," he said, " I am ready
for any remarks you may be pleased to
make."

"- 1 have no remarks for sou, fellow," replied
the other scornfully. " Don't put yourself
in my way next time when I am coming
down the street, that's all, or I may have to
kick you out of it."

His face was flushed. He was not a sober
man ; and, although as yet barely more than

mid day, it was patent to the young sculptor
that he was already excited with wine.

"Ah!" said Ino, in the same quiet tone,
'' last time we met I had the pleasure of doing
that office for you, if you remember."

"It is a foul lie ! " exclaimed the count,
with a darkened face. "Do you want me to
hit you, fellow, with my stick ? A gentleman
can only challenge one of his own rank."

Without taking any notice of this last
taunt, Raffaelino turned towards the two
friends, who stood on either side — half-amused,
if not pleased, by the little 
not a very uncommon one.

You shall hear the truth, signori," he
said. " This gentleman, on the first and last
occasion on which we met, was discovered by
me upon a private staircase, where he had
concealed himself for the purpose of terrifying
a young and innocent signorina. Her screams
attracted me, and I knocked him down the
stairs. To-day he has made libellous assertions
reo^ardinsr me, and he has ventured once
more to insult a lady. You may possibly
agree with me that one who is not too proud

to persecute an unprotected signorina, or to
make good his escape before the onslaught of
one man, may also be capable of coining a
malevolent lie against him who has incurred
his displeasure."

The two young men laughed somewhat
foolishly. They did not seem inclined to
take up the defence of their friend with
any particular ardour in the face of Vino's
strong though repressed passion. They,
however, drew the Monte back, when, with
a sudden movement, he raised his stick to
deal a blow at his opponent.

Come away, come away," they said. " It
is unseemly to have a row in the open street.
As for this signor, you know where he lives.
You can deal with him as you think fit at
another time."

Let it be so," said Ino, upon whose
shoulders the stick had not descended, and
who remained motionless, his scornful eyes
fixed on Delia Coschia's face. " My studio is,
no doubt, well known to the Signor Conte,
and I shall be ready to see him at any time,
and to render him that account which

publicity and circumstances have to-day
unfortunately frustrated. But you need not
alarm yourselves, signori, lie will not come ! "
And lie turned off into the side street, a
witness to the smiles, not altogether flattering
to their object, with which the other two
dragged off" their companion ; seeing also, but
caring nothing to construe, a certain look of
deadly hatred filling the long sinister eyes of
the Conte as he moved away in silence.

^^■H^^M

VOL. Ill,



A RUDE AWAKENING.

IT is hard, when we fancy we hold the
strings of destiny in our fingers and are
guiding them as we list-to find the same
strings rudely jerked out of our grasp by
untoward circumstances and pointed at
random in an opposite direction. Once lost,
it is a hard matter sometimes to regain
possession of the steering lines and to put
our course straight aofain. Benedetta's feelings
were full of a vague resentment when,
some few weeks after its transmission,
Conway's letter was put into her hands.
She had looked forward so much to its
coming, that the disappointment was
correspondingly sharp. She felt sore with
fate for treating her so unfairly, and with
Conway for believing what he had heard.

Even Bianca, who was no particular friend
of hers, nor troubled as a rule by an over-amount
of sympathy, noticed as she removed
the breakfast how suddenly flushed, then pale,
the Signorina had become on reading her
letter, and how the hands that held it
trembled. Detta understood now to what
her cousin Eva had referred in that congratulatory
little note of hers some two
months ago. It was Ino she had meant,
not Mr. Conway. And she, no doubt it
was, who had transmitted the gossip to the
Cape. In which matter, as we know,
Eveleen was wronged. She might have
waited, said the girl to herself with some
bitterness, for a confirmation of the report.
Why need she be in such a hurry to
separate herself and Conway ? And he — he
might have known her better than to accept
such a report so readily. Might he not have
seen, the last time he was with her, that it
was for him she cared, not for Ino ? Was it
that men were blind and could not see, or
was it that he had ceased to care for her, that
he was indifferent to the report, and took this

42*

opportunity of letting her know the state of
his feelings in the least unpleasant manner ?
Yet, even while thinking these hard thoughts,
Detta knew that she was treating her correspondent
unfairly ; for there was that about
the wording of his letter — an effort, a
constraint, a coldness — which might have
escaped the observation of a fellow-man,
but spoke plainly enough to the clearer
intuition of a woman, of wounded vanity if
not wounded affection. Should she answer
the letter at once, telling him the truth
simply and naturally, or should she leave it
unanswered, at any rate for a while, allowing
the belief to become certainty in his mind ?
Pride urged her one way, love another ; and
this Anglo-Italian maiden, being both very
proud and very loving, the struggle was a
hard one. She was strangely silent that
afternoon when Ino, as was his wont,
went to fetch her home on the closing of the
picture gallery. Her manner towards him
was even cold ; for at the moment, however
unjustly, her old playmate seemed to her the
cause of her ill-treatment. It is needless to

say that a lover, at once so sensitive and so
devoted as Bartolucci, could not fail to
remark her change of manner and to suffer by
it ; but a great love is patient — the waves of
the sea are not so easily stirred as the ripples
on the mountain tarn — and he suffered in
silence. " Something has grieved or wounded
her," he thought ; " she is of too generous a
nature to indulge, for more than a little
moment, anger against one who has given her
no cause of offence, and who indeed, she well
knows, would do or risk much to ward off
from her the slightest blow." So he said
nothing on the subject, proving only a
somewhat more silent companion than usual
that evening, and returning home at night to
his studio, hard by, with a certain anxiety in
his faithful heart and a certain pain upon his
face. He was quite right in believing that
Detta's coldness would pass. It had already
left her when the next day they met again ;
but in its place was a restlessness, a subdued
uneasiness, which told him plainly of some
suppressed unhappiness. Ino's heart misgave
him sorely ; if she had loved him, would she

have kept from him the cause of her anxiety,
unless, indeed, it were something connected
with himself ? But that was surely impossible
And then a thought flashed across him, after
all not so very far from the truth. Might not
the voice of gossip have been wagging its
foolish tongue, distressing her, and offending
her nice sense of refinement by the propagation
of some senseless story which had come
to her ears ?

She who rejoiced in the innocent freedom
and liberty of another Una, laid herself peculiarly
open, he fancied, to the infliction of such
wounds.

Meanwhile he would make no effort to force
her confidence. He would wait patiently,
whatever might be the cause that disturbed
her, until in her own good time and of her
own free will she chose to confide it to him.
In this way two or three days had passed.
And notwithstanding Benedetta's efforts to resume
her usual tone, and resin her usual
cheerfulness, she was unable to deceive
her companion And the young man's
heart grew sad within him, seeing that she

suffered, and that she strove so hard though
unavailingly to hide her suffering from
him.

She was seated alone before one of the
windows of the Maestro's room one evening.
The heat of the . day had been intense
; and, for the first time, she had
shirked her usual morning's work at the
picture-gallery.

She was wearied out with the conflict
going on within her, and had not had
the heart to step across the blazing
streets even for so short a distance as
that required to gain the cooler gallery.
The old man lay dozing on his bed ; and
she, seated there alone, had taken a letter
out of her pocket and read and re-read
it with a changing face. How cool and
calm was its wording ! Each syllable, as
she perused it to herself, seemed to fall
upon her heart like a drop of ice.

It is true, is it not," the writer said,
that I have to wish you joy .^ I only heard
a few dsijs ago of your engagement to Barton
I hoped you would have written soon

yourself to tell me ; for you know I am
interested in your welfare. I think you have
made a wise choice in preferring him to me.
He is a clever and a noble fellow, and is
also, I am told, now a man of mark. I
trust you have done well for yourself. If,
amid your new interest, you can find a moment
to remember a former friend, I shall be
glad to hear of you."

This was the letter which had caused Bene-delta
so much pain and anger, and which
even now a proud instinct urged her not to
answer.

And reiterating once more to herself her
arguments, and once more fighting through
the battle of love and pride, without coming
to any satisfactory conclusion — the hot air
breathing through the open window upon her
flushed face, the sound of the chiming quarters
rising softly upwards through the drowsy air
by degrees the vision of things outside
became dimmer, consciousness faded slowly
away, and she fell asleep, the tears upon
her long lashes, and the letter still clasped in
her hands.

She did not wake as a light footstep came
through the half-open door and paused beside
her.

For a moment Ino stood orazinor with
bated breath, fearing to disturb her ; then he
crept softly to the window seat a yard off.
How beautiful she looked ! Could he but
have transferred that drooping face to the
marble, modelled by his skilful hand, what
fame would have been too great, what sum
too large to reward the portrayal of such loveliness!
And how sad she looked with the
glittering tear-drops still lying upon her
lashes, and a little plaintive line about the
sweet, closed mouth ! Sorrow was no fitting
companion for one so young, so active, so
light-hearted. Ah, cruel it was to see her
sorrow, and to feel he might not banish it by
his love. He would have given years of toil
to kiss away her tears, to hold her to his
breast, and, with his arms around her, to
bid the sharp, arrows of fate strike her
only through him —

And then his eyes rested on the letter
which had fallen from her grasp and lay

loose upon lier knee ; and his quick eyesight
at once told him that the handwriting
was that of a man. There never
breathed a truer gentleman than Ino Barton
son of working parents though he
were ; and, after that first unconscious glance,
he turned away his eyes hastily from the bold
straggling writing, which at that distance he
could so easily have deciphered. But a pang
went through him sharper than a sword ; and,
as he turned his head aside and gazed through
the window, a dark mist had risen up,
blurring and blotting all external things.

This then was the cause of her secret
trouble — this letter from some man, some
Englishman — one whom perhaps she loved
with the love he felt for her — and who
at any rate, on his part, had the power to
wound and to grieve her.

A moment later and Benedetta opened her
eyes. Her dreamy look as she caught sight of
her companion changed to a startled expression,
and a sudden flush rose to brow and
cheek as she caught the letter once more
within her grasp.

You have read it ? " lie asked quickly.

And Ino, too deeply hurt and mortified
at the question to find a reply, looked towards
her with silent reproach, the colour
mantling in his cheeks.

I beg your pardon," she said. " Of
course you haven't. But you may as well.
It is some foolish gossip which concerns you
as well as me."

And with a constrained laugh, she tossed
the sheet towards him.

But he paused a moment ; perhaps from a
strange foreboding which assailed him —
perhaps deterred by the unreality of her
manner.

Do you wish me to read it ? " he asked,
not touching it, or looking at it ; only trying
to read the meaning in her eyes.

0, yes ; " she said, averting her face ;
"what does it matter? It is of no consequence
; it will only make you laugh."

'Then at last he took it up ; and knowing
intuitively that it would be the death-warrant
of his hopes, he read it slowly
through.

There was little difficulty in making out
the large characters, or in understanding the
few simply expressed words ; yet he read it
through a second time, and, as he did so,
Benedetta saw that his face had whitened
even to the lips.

It was sudden, this downfall of every
castle he had built in imagination among
the fair gardens of Paradise — this crushing
of every joy that had filled his heart, every
thought in the present, every hope for the
future, which for the last few months had
been to him the very essence of life — the
very essence of himself. But he spoke quiet,
commonplace words to her as he gave the
letter back.

It has given you pain ? " he asked,
with, perhaps, a faint hope that something
about her manner or her answer might
possibly contradict his assurance, and acquaint
him with some reason other than
the one he feared as the cause of her disquiet.


She laughed ao-ain ; a lao-li harder and
more constrained than the last.

Oh ! it does not matter," she said ; " if
he likes to think it, he is welcome ! "

But Ino bent towards her more earnestly.

You care for this man ? " he asked,
slowly.

Then Benedetta broke down, covering her
face with her hands.

He will never know it now ! " she said,
almost in a whisper.

There was a pause.

You will write to him," said Ino, " and
tell him the truth ? "

No, no ! " she exclaimed, her voice full of
wounded pride, " I will not write — he might
have known me better."

So now at last he knew the truth, the
whole truth. All these months when he
had believed her his, when he had flattered
himself that the links of his own love had
been forging themselves more surely about
her, she had in secret belonged to this other
man, her whole heart had been his ; and the
affection she had bestowed upon himself had
been but the sisterly affection of the old
days !

He will know perhaps — soon," lie said
presently. "Do not fret, my Piccola," he
added, softly.

And Detta, ashamed of her weakness,
dried her eyes, and strove to assume a
careless air.

You are not going ? " she asked, as he
rose from his seat.

I am busy to-night," he said ; " I will
come back soon."

In the selfishness of her own emotion, she
had not thought of him, nor noticed the
change in his manner ; but now something
in the intonation of his voice, something
haggard about the pale face into which she
looked, revealed to her, with the rapidity of
lightning, the truth to which she had been
so blind these many months ; and, by the
same instinct revealed to her the cruel
blow that had but just now been so thoughtlessly
dealt towards him. Her remorse was
as great as her former carelessness.

Forgive me — I have hurt you ; I have
wounded you, Ino ! " she exclaimed.

"There is nothing to forgive," he said,

gently ; his very gentleness moving her to
a more passionate compunction.

In her penitence and her humiliation, she
rose and held out supplicating hands towards
him.

Forgive me, dear, dear, Ino ! " she
repeated. " You are too good — far too
good and noble for me ! "

But Ino tenderly put her back into her
chair.

Do not so," he said ; " I have nothing to
complain of; you have always been kind
to me, mia sorely."

But she still clung to his hands, looking*
up into his face with tearful eyes ; reading-there
for the first time, the great love, the
greater pain that was burning in his heart,
but kept with so generous an instinct from
his lips.

Must you go ? " she repeated. " Say you
forgive me first, Vino."

His lips quivered for a moment as he
looked at her, making no response ; then he
bent down suddenly, and, for the second
time in seven long years, kissed the smooth,

white, upturned forehead — with a kiss,
reverent and tender as that a mother might
lay upon the features of her dead child.

Good-bye, my Piccola," he said.

And then without another word he went
softly from the room ; and she knew that he
had laid aside his love for ever.

,.i! ^^evv 9.

THE ASSASSIN.

THERE is, perhaps, in the life of everyone
some one occasion, terrible at the time,
long remembered afterwards, when the human
soul has to make its way through the valley of
Hinnom. Some have all but perished in that
valley — have escaped, at least, out of it witlf
seared hearts, hardened and begrimed ; but
others again have reached the further end and
set forth anew upon the path of life, purified
and chastened by the furnace heat — the gold
within them tested and stamped as true. But
none come forth from the struggle in all
points the same as when they went in— in all
there is noticeable some change; and the
world expresses its appreciation of that
change by the simple observation "he or
she has known trouble," summing up in
VOL. III. 43

those few words the bald statement of a
sorrow which has been unto death, or a
temptation whose passionate force has nearly
torn the soul in two.

Such a struggle it was now Ino's part to
undergo, such a trouble to face. The battle
was fought in solitude, as all such battles are.
The conflict was a fierce one ; but he came
forth from it as conqueror. And, save for a
little additional pallor on the chiselled
features, and a certain set look of determination
about the eyes and mouth, witness
there was none to the long sleepless hours
of the night in which the young sculptor had
waged that hand-to-hand encounter with fate
and his own passions, an encounter which
had brought the perspiration to his brow and
madness to his heart ; but from which he had
risen the next morning calm as usual,
stronger, nobler than before. During those
long weary hours a resolution had been
taken.

The sudden downfall of hope, with many
results in the adoption of at any rate a
temporary misanthropy. With Ino it re-suited

in an entire self-conquest. He was
not of the nature to grudge to others that
happiness denied to himself. On the contrary,
it seemed to him, after the first few
moments of despair, the highest privilege
of love to sacrifice its own interests and to
toil still for the happiness of the one beloved,
even by means which should in the future
disconnect her life from his.

All day long as he went about his work the
resolution haunted him and shaped itself
more practically in his mind. Instead of
faltering as the hours went on, he grew the.
more determined to carry out his idea ; and if,
after the day's work was over, he still delayed
awhile before putting it into execution, it was
only that he might tliere!)y reflect a little
more upon the matter, and carry it out in
the best manner possible. It was late when
he seated himself before his writing-desk, and
with a face a little sterner than usual, set
himself to shape his clear, fine hand-writing
into a few brief English words. They were
written slowly and carefully, and with many
pauses of thought between, and so soon as

43*

finished, were read over with studious attention,
and then at once folded up and placed
in an envelope. Then he rose, and, pushing
back the hair from his hot forehead, drew the
curtain from before the open window and
looked out

The streets were full of people — whom the
heat of the day had for hours imprisoned —
laughing, talking and joking, as they made
their way along the narrow footpath. It was
scarcely dark, although the sun had set two
hours ago, and in the still blue sky a brilliant
crescent moon was lighting up the housetops
and sending here and there narrow streaks
upon the road beneath. It was the first
evening for many weeks that Ino had not
visited his friends at the Palazzo Carborelli.

He had not forgotten them to-night ; but
with the burden of his present intention full
upon him, he had felt himself unable to go.
And now that the step had been taken it was
too late.

Hae-past ten had already chimed from
the neighbouring church, and the Signora
Scalchi's quiet lodgers would probably all

have retired to rest. Perhaps Detta had been
wondering, as the daylight faded, why he did
not come ?

Perhaps she had even — for she was an
affectionate sister — missed his company, had
wished for him, and in her heart blamed
him as cross and unkind, as, from her
lofty window, she watched the bars of gold
fade away upon the western sky. Ah I well,
what mattered it even that she should blame
him, think him cold or unforgiving, so long
as his time had been passed in doing her a
secret service ?

After a few moments he descended, and
putting on his hat, went out into the street
below. He walked rapidly for a few yards,
for he had his errand to accomplish ; but,
so soon as he had reached the post-box and
dropped his letter in, he paused for a moment
with a strange numbness about his heart.
The night was as beautiful as his spirit was
sad. Best, or rather restless quiet, would, he
felt, be intolerable to him. So, with no
particular object before him, he started for
one of those lorn? nocturnal strolls in which

lie Lad sometimes before found the relief
which a sensitive mind often vainly asks of
the fickle benefactress sleep. He wandered
about until he was tired ; then, returning
homewards, sat for long on the steps of the
Trinity dei Month, gazing alternately at the
wonderful blue of the midsummer sky and
at the silver tracery that fell below upon
hushed fountain, on sleeping statue, and on
deserted roadway, feeling a great calm creep
over him under the influence of the solitude
and the silence.

The streets were almost empty when at
length he rose to 2^0, crossing the Piazza
di Spagna, and passing through the Corso
on the road to his own not far distant
apartments. He had soon reached the side
street in which his studio was situated,
and was walking slowly down it as the
church bells all around him clanged out
one o'clock. As they did so, he paused fora
moment for one last look at the midnight
sky and the myriad stars. Not a soul had
been visible in the street as he entered it ;
but now a footstep suddenly sounded behind

him — so near, that the person, whoever it
were, must have stepped out from the
shadows of an adjoining doorway. The
movement was sufficiently unexpected to
cause Ino to turn his head, more however incuriosity
than in fear. But he saw little.
For, as he turned, something struck him in
the side — something that feU like ice and
numbed his senses. And stretching out his
hands impotently, heaven and earth faded
from before his eyes ; and, with a faint cry,
he fell forward upon his face. He did not
hear the step come closer still, and pause
beside him ; neither did he see the anxious
gaze with which for a moment the assassin
contemplated his work ere he turned and
with noiseless, rapid steps, disappeared down
the street.

Meanwhile EafTaelino Bartolucci lay without
life or motion stretched out upon the
stone pavement, the moon looking pitilessly
down upon the white face and upturned,
ghastly eyes, and glancing horribly upon the
little pool of blood which had made its way
from his wounded side. It was a quiet and

ret red street, this niccolo in which the
sculptor lived ; and for more than an hour
he lay, his life-blood slowly ebbing out,
before any Samaritan footstep approached to
have pity upon him.

Dawn was scarcely more than breaking
when a hurried peal at Signora Scalchi's bell
disturbed Bianca, sullen and indignant, from
her heavy slumbers. Benedetta too, had
heard the bell, wondering what could be its
meaning ; but, when a few moments later, a
loud shriek echoed from Bianca's lips, she
hastily flung on a wrapper and rushed out
into the corridor.

A maid-servant with flushed cheeks and
tearful eyes was standing at the entrance
door ; and Bianca, her hands upraised, was
ofivino^ vent to a succession of terrified exclamations.
On seeing Benedetta she darted
towards her.

Ah, signorina ! " she exclaimed, " they
have murdered the Signor Ino ! He is dying
you must go to him quick! They found
him in a pool of blood close to his own door
last night. Ah, Jesu ! the poor signor ! "

Benedetta reeled and caught at lier companion
for support, as, with a blanched face,
she moved towards the doorway.

It is too true, signorina," said the other
girl, who seemed almost beside herself with
excitement ; •' they brought him in at two
this morning with a terrible wound in his
side. He has been stabbed by some one.
They cannot stop the bleeding, and the
doctor says he will not live many hours. He
has asked for you. Ah, come quick,
signorina, for the love of God ! I must
return. Would but Our Lady spare
the young signor, I would give my right
hand ! Never was there one so good, so
kind, so generous as he." And she burst
out weeping as she hurried down the palace
stairs.

For one moment after she had gone, Benedetta
stood motionless, steadying herself against the
little table that stood behind the door. The
shock was so awful, so overwhelming. It
seemed so impossible to realise Ino, in his
strong young manhood and pride of life, lying
low, struck by the hand of an assassin, and

bleeding to death ! The next minute, still
feeling as if in a dream, she turned back
and entered the Maestro's room. It was as
she feared. The old man had heard the
tidings in the abrupt fulness of their horror.
He was sitting up in bed, trembling so
exceedingly that the couch on which he
lay shook beneath him ; anguish on his
face, and his crippled hands clasped together
in the attitude of one who prays for mercy.
She had no need to tell him anything. And,
indeed, when she tried to speak, she found
that horror had robbed her of her voice, and
that her words came forth in an almost
inarticulate whisper.

I have heard it all," he said in quavering
tones. " Go, go— quick — do not delay. Let
him see you before he die. I cannot go to
him. Ah, Ino, my son, my son ! "

Once, twice, Benedetta placed her trembling
lips to his forehead, and caught the clasped
hands in hers ; then, without uttering a word,
she left him, and passed back into her own
room. It was the work of but two or three
minutes to dress herself ; vet it seemed to her

as if her slinking hands took an untold tone
over their business.

The morning air was cool and grey as she
hurried out into the street, and a shiver
passed over her as the early breeze met
her flushed cheeks. A feeling of sickness
oppressed her as she paused beside the
sculptor's door and her eye fell upon the
dark marks which stained the rough
stones a few yards off, marking the place
where Ino had been struck down by a
cowardly hand, and where he had lain,
silent and unconscious, during that cruel
hour which elapsed before assistance reached,
him. Might it not have been possible that,
had help come sooner, his life might have
been spared, and her old playmate not belying
now before the gates of Death ? The
thought was pain too terrible to be endured ;
and hastily but softly Benedetta entered the
house.

On the threshold she was met by the
medical man, who looked curiously into her
face. " I have done all I can for him," he
said ; " nothing more is possible. The bleeding

has ceased now, but there is no hope. A
few hours will see the end ; it is a vital
wound. Do not excite him ; or the wound
will break out afresh, and then the end will
be rapid."

Benedetta simply bowed her head without
reply. But, at the door, the young doctor
turned, and once more faced her. " Can you
give any clue," he asked abruptly, " from
your acquaintance with Signer Bartolucci, as
to the identity of his assassin ? "

This question had not as yet, strangely
enough, presented itself before her ; her mind
had been too full of Ino to turn even to the
subject of Ino's murderer. But now, without
a moment's pause for reflection, she answered
almost unconsciously, in a cold, calm tone,
It must be, I think, the Conte della
Coschia."

Her companion gazed at her with a startled
look ; surprised perhaps by the apathy of her
tone. But, if Ino were to die, what mattered
it by whose hand he had fallen ? The moment
of revengeful desire might come ; but at the
present moment, she could think of no one

but himself — could only yearn to be with him
and chafe at these delays.

No," said Doctor Rossi, " that cannot be.
This man was tall and thin ; the Conte is of
middle height and stout. This much I got
from the wounded man so soon as he
recovered consciousness. (unless indeed,'
he muttered to himself, 'he hired someone
to do his work for him ; which is more than
possible, seeing that il Signor Conte has the
reputation of a cowards)" And lifting his
hat, he turned away.

A moment later, and she stood wijli
beating heart in Ino's room. The young
man lay upon his bed only partially undressed—
-for the doctor had feared by the
slightest movement to bring on a return
of the terrible hemorrhage — supported nearly
upright by a pile of pillows, his closed eyes,
and the ghastly pallor of his face giving him
already the appearance of death. As, however,
her footsteps passed the threshold, his
eyes opened, and a smile of ineffable satisfaction
crossed his features ; whilst the elderly
woman who had been attending to him, and

who had the care of his rooms, rose up, offering
her chair to Detta, and herself retiring to
the window-seat a few yards off.

There was no greeting between the two as
Benedetta sat down beside her old playmate ;
for words were forbidden to the dying man,
and the girl's heart was too full to speak.
Had she opened her lips, she feared that
she could not have restrained the torrent of
grief that pressed upon her so sorely.
But, as she took his nerveless hand in hers
and looked with pain unspeakable into his
pale face, he smiled again — a smile meant to
convey at once consolation and love — pity
for her, and resignation for himself. It was
a smile that unnerved her more than the sight
of his prostration.

The little thought he bestowed upon himself
seemed but to add to her passionate regret
for one so unselfish among the sons of men.
And if indeed the Conte were his murderer,
as her instincts told her, then it was by reason
of her — in consequence of his chivalrous
protection of her — that this darling friend
and brother of her childhood had met his

end. All ! Why had she been so quick to
call for help that luckless day on the Palazzo
stairs ? Ah, why had Ino returned that
evening ? And the very thing which at the
time had seemed a Providence, now appeared
to her as typical of the strange irony of
fate.

Presently he moved slightly, creeping a
little nearer to her with something of the shy
longing we sometimes see expressed on the
face of a dumb animal. And the woman at
the window rose and came towards them,
the tears streaming down her honest
cheeks.

II povero, signor ! " she said ; " he wants
to be moved."

And with her strong arms she lifted him
tenderly close to his companion, and laid him
with his head against Benedetta's shoulder.
She had been young too, ah, yes ! when she
had wandered through the ilex groves upon
the slopes of Tivoli with her Giulio many,
many years ago, when her cheeks were round
and smooth, and the down had but just begun
to grow upon his upper lip. She had listened

to the nightingales, as they paced along, side
by side, among the deepening shadows of the
overhanging walks ; and there had been a lookin
his eyes then as he bent towards her, whispering
passionate words of love and constancy,
like the look now filling the young signor's
eyes.

So, without a word, she raised him up and
placed his head where her Giulio's head had
often lain ; little doubting, from the expression
of anguish on Benedetta's face, that the
signorina loved him as — it was easy to see — he
loved her.

And so for long there was silence in the
quiet room, when the daylight entered, more
and more fully to light up the three motionless
figures ; a silence so intense that the ticking
of the little marble clock upon the mantelpiece
sounded strangely harsh and loud. The
sun was now rising, and there was stir sufficient
in the streets, where the early housekeepers
of Eome were already starting on
their morning errands ; but the sculptor's
room looked out upon the other side,
upon some gardens, where acacias swayed

softly to and fro, and where a faint scent rose
up from orange-trees ; and here there was no
sound of the outside town.

Presently Benedetta stretched out her hand
to reach the cordial which was to be given at
stated intervals to the wounded man ; and,
having swallowed the liquid, Ino looked
towards her with meaning in his eyes, gently
touching her hand, and at the same time
lifting one of his own fingers — a finger on
which sparkled a gem of considerable value.
It was a diamond ring that had been given to
him by a Florentine magnate, to mark his approbation
of some artistic work which the
young man had carried out with unexpected
success.

Divining: the thought in his mind, she drew
the ring from his finger, and saw by his face
that she had understood him rightly. Then she
paused.

For whom ? " she whispered.

He answered nothing in words ; but with
a feeble hand, tried to place the jewel upon
one of her own fingers.

Seeing that his strength was insufficient
VOL. III. 44

even for this slight effort, and that he
would not be happy unless she carried
out his intentions, she herself slipped it on
her slender middle finger. Why should she
thwart him ? A diamond, of whatever value,
was of little moment to her now. There were
no friends, she well knew, so dear to Ino as
the Maestro and herself ; neither had the
young sculptor any earthly relative left who
might in after days accuse her of robbing
them of the dead man's possessions. He
should have his own way now in this as well
as in anything else he chose to ask. She
merely bent and pressed her lips to the pale
brow that in the dawning brightness of the
summer day seemed to grow more and more
akin to the cold fleshless appearance of one of
his own marble statues.

But, dying though he were, her kiss had
power to bring a faint flush into the colourless
cheeks, and a gleam of joy into his
eyes. A moment later he spoke for the first
time.

May God bless you both .' " he said in a
whisper ; with an accent on the last word

which, strangely enough, seemed to tell her to
whom he referred. Her grief could no longer
be controlled.

There are moments — sacred moments —
when even the selfish emotions of love are
over-mastered by those of a tender, life-long
friendship.

Ino, Ino ! " she exclaimed, while the
scorching tears rained from her eyes ; " I
would rather I had never met him — rather

I had never thought of him — sooner than to
see you lying here ! "

But the next moment with a strong effort
she controlled herself ; for at the sight of her
grief, the sick man's face had changed ; and
the elder woman rose hastily.

Signorina, signorina," she said, " you
must not weep, you must not agitate him.

II Signor Medico bade us keep him quiet, or
he will die."

And already, before she had finished speaking,
Detta's agitation had passed, and she had
even recalled a wan smile to her sorrowful
features.

The Maestro — ' whispered Ino once more ;

44*

(,<,

and she answered his thoughts with forced
cain.

I will never forsake him, Ino mio ; he
shall be my care so long as he lives."

Ino smiled again ; and his eyes closed softly
as he seemed to fall into a gentle sleep, his
face still lying against her breast, and the
little clock ticking on more loudly and more
harshly than before.

When again he roused himself, the sunshine
was just beginning to penetrate through the
Venetian blinds which shaded the open
window. The woman who still sat near
hastily held the stimulant to his lips.

He is dying ! " she said.

But Ino refused it, turning his face once
more towards Benedetta. She had to bend
her ear to catch the faint low words which
were the last he spoke.

He will come — soon ! " he whispered ;
trying to discern her features through the
dazzling gleam of the morning sun that perplexed
death's rising mists.

And even at that moment, a smile came to
his lips. For he had done for her the only

service left for love to do ; the assassin's
knife bad come too late to frustrate that
last sacrifice of unselfish loyalty.

And with the smile still lingering on his
lips, he died.

-e^^e^o^c^^^^^^

AN UNEXPECTED LEGACY,

TNO's death was a blow from which the
Maestro never rallied. For five-and-twenty
years, as boy and man, the young
Italian had been dear to him, both by reason
of his artistic sympathies as well as of his
many noble qualities ; having indeed, since
Annunciata's death and Pippo's departure,
become his daily companion and adopted son.
After that terrible shock the old man
never seemed himself again. His mind often
wandered ; he grew feebler, and would pass
whole days without speech or movement,
apparently almost without consciousness. He
took little if any interest now in the things
which surrounded him — the outer world, its
cares and occupations, seemed to have faded
from his remembrance ; and even Benedetta's

voice could not always arouse him from his
mental lethargy. At other times he would
be lost apparently in memories of the past ;
and she, listening to his rambling words, felt
sometimes greatly moved ; for their subject
was often herself or her dead mother —
that mother whom the old musician had
adored so silently in the days of his south
and strength. He spoke with equal tenderness
of both, and sometimes in his failing
memory confused the two. " I love her,"
she heard him once murmuring sadly to
himself, " but she will never care for me.
That is natural — I am old for her— she ?s
young and gay ; but why does she not love
Ino ? Poor Tno ! it is hard that she should
not fancy him — his whole heart is given to
her. Poor lad, poor lad ! " Or he would
dream that Benedetta was once again a little
child, living beneath 'Nunciata's care as in
the old days. " She looks pale, my good
Annunciata — the little one ; we must send
her out into the countries for a week or so —
my poor Ned's child must not be neglected.
Ned, Ned I" he suddenly went on, as if to

the living man, " you must take heart again !
Cheer up, lad, you have genius ; you must
get on some day. Believe in yourself, dear
boy, if you wish to make others believe in
you. Olinta — God bless her! Olinta will
not let you mope like this when you are
married."

Always the some unselfishness, always the
same thoughtfulness for others, the same
forgetfulness of self ! And Detta's eyes, as
she sat beside him, filled with tears of a
tender admiration. But it was Ino chiefly
on whom he dwelt ; Ino in his gentle childhood,
or the pleasant promise of youth ;
and to his name he generally returned.
Take care of the little one, Ino," he would
often say, " she is our own Piccola, is she
not ? Ah, Ino mio, some day sou will have
to look after the Piccola for good when I
am gone ! " And Ino was in his grave,
while he lay rambling on ! Then he would
start up, clasping his hands wildly. " Vino,
Ino ! he is dead, you know it, Detta. Ah,
God ! my son ! my son ! Would to God I
could have died for yon, my son 1 "

During this time of trouble, old Moroni,
his former friend and associate — a man of
simple mind and kindly heart — came often to
enquire after him ; and sometimes to sit for a
few moments beside the bed, gazing compassionately
upon his altered face, or striving,
with well-meant efforts, to cheer up Bene-delta's
failing spirits. Struck with compunction
for the girl's loneliness, he sometimes also
brought his niece, Teresa, with him to spend
a morning with the signorina, and to share
her trying solitude. Teresa was a bright-faced,
modest, gentle - hearted girl, who
speedily developed an admiring affection for
her half-English companion, and whose friendship
grew in time to be something of a solace
to Detta in her trouble.

Ino's murderer was never traced. The
Eoman police are not perhaps at any time
remarkably active or intelligent ; and in this
case, there were neither relations nor friends
to press forward the inquiry. The young
sculptor had always been of a reticent and
retiring disposition ; he had made but few
intimate friends ; and although his character

and talents were such as to gain the respect
and admiration of those who came into contact
with him, yet there was not one perhaps
among his neighbours singled out to be his
especial comrade, his Damon or his Jonathan.
The doctor had his own notions, but he had
no wish to push them forward. He was an
honest, kindly young fellow, but not above
his neighbours in points of morality, and
little inclined to take upon him the role
of public prosecutor, to the detriment of
his own interests. It was not, he considered,
incumbent upon him to name his
suspicions — which were purely conjectural,
and based chiefly upon the passing words
of an excited girl — to the emissaries of the
law. They must do their own work for
themselves. And, even supposing the girl's
surmise to be correct, it was not his place
to interfere in what was probably a love-brawl
between two young men. So he dismissed
the matter from his mind.

There was no doubt, however, in Bene-delta's
mind as to who it was that planned, if
he did not execute, the cowardly deed. And

two Others there were, boon companions of
the Conte della Coschia, who shrugged their
shoulders with a mutual glance of silent
meaning when they heard of the assassination,
recalling a certain oath, a threat, which had
passed his lips, and a murderous gleam which
had filled his eyes on the occasion of his last
meeting with the young sculptor.

For a day or two the foul deed created a
sensation in the city. Eaffaelino's name,
though scarcely as yet to be called famous,
was beginning to be well-known among
artists and connoisseurs as that of a man of
promise ; and among these, for a short time,
his early death was a subject of interest and
compassion. But there are no lack of excitements
in Eome. For the idlest there is plenty
to see, plenty to hear, and plenty to do. New
themes speedily take the place of the old, and
the premature end of even a moderately wells
or interesting person is soon forgotten.
Ere a week was over Ino's few possessions
had been sold, his rooms re-let, and the
horrible deed more than half-forgotten even
by the very women who had helped to lay

the bleeding figure on the bed, quickly-moved
tears flowing from their eyes ; while, perhaps,
save for those two — the old man and the
young girl, in the Palazzo Carborelli — there
were few friends or acquaintances troubled
by more than a passing memory of the pale
face now hid away beneath the cold earth ina
shady corner of the cemetery With these
two, however, his memory was not likely to
fade, and perhaps there were few others for
whose fond remembrance the young man
would have craved.

Subdued as she was by grief, and by the
nervous shock of Ino's death, it seemed for a
time as if Benedetta's whole nature had
become changed, and as if the active, cheerful
girl were developing into a sad-eyed,
lethargic dreamer. There was so little to do
daring these long hot days — no necessary
work or activity of any kind — that sometimes
she felt startled to remember how the
hours had passed, aimlessly, unconsciously,
occupied solely in melancholy thought.

It was, perhaps, no bad thing for her when,
before long, an incident occurred, effectually

arousing her from the monotony of this inactive
life. This was the arrival of a
bewildering letter from Miss Sparke, containing
two important pieces of news, both
wholly unexpected. The first was the
announcement of Lady Dumbarton's death.
She had had another long illness ; but the
end was somewhat sudden, the gout having
flown to a vital part. Miss Sparke's letter
was a strange conglomeration of spite and
of enforced politeness, of an evident wish
to ingratiate herself with Benedetta, combined
with an equal inability to conceal her
old feelings of jealousy. She had been left a
moderate legacy, which she appeared to consider
by no means commensurate with her
deserts ; and the dispositions of her employer's
will clearly filled her with an acrid displeasure
she could not disguise. She had,
however, for reasons best known to herself,
written full particulars of Lady Dumbarton's
illness, death, and will, to her favourite niece,
informing the latter at the same time that
this was an attention bestowed only upon
herself, and by no means extended to Mrs.

Drew or her mother, to whom the barest
notification of the facts had been all that she
had troubled herself to send.

I congratulate you," wrote Miss Sparke,
on your new riches. Knowing from experience
the exigencies of straitened means, I
am happy to think that your future life will
be smoothed by the possession of so large an
income. Certainly there is no calculating
the eccentricities of the best of people, and
your aunt was not more consistent than many
others into whose company I have been tossed
upon the cold waves of a stormy life. She
appeared to entertain a stronger regard, if I
may say so, for those who thwarted her plans
and disregarded her wishes, than for those
who spent their life in her service and only
lived to anticipate her wants. It is an ungrateful
world, but / am not one to put
forward my own claims or complain of the
injustice of others. During her last illness,
sour aunt begged me, should it prove fatal,
to forward to you this message. ' Give her
my dear love,' she said, ' and tell her that I

am sorry now that I quarrelled with her on
the matter of her going to Eome to nurse her
old friend. She was quite right, and I ought
not to have thwarted her. Ask her, for the
sake of one whom I once told her she resembled,
to think sometimes with affection of her
dead aunt.' She made me write the message
down at the time that I might not forget it ;
and as I am of those who consider a promise
sacred, and would remit no obligation even
towards one who, like your deceased aunt,
was not fully appreciative of my disinterested
care, I forward it to you as it left her lips. I
can only add that I would have already left
Steynton Court had it not been for the possibility
that by remaining here until hearing
from you, I might be able to be of use in the
case of any new arrangements, or the chance
of your desiring at once to make this your
residence."

Eenedetta's eyes filled with tears as she read
the message from the dead woman, who, in
her last days, had thought lovingly of her in
conjunction with the long lost, dark-eyed

(laughter — the idol of her youth. Who could
tell how long the stern, reserved, silent woman
had in her heart repented of the severity she
had shown her niece, and silently yearned fora
return of the young voice, for the caresses
which so few were invited or inclined to give
her?

She scarcely noticed the ridiculous self-glorification
or the veiled intends of Miss
Sparke's not over-pleasant letter. She even
forgot to speculate over the nature and
amount of the new riches of which her correspondent
spoke ; as she sat recalling past days
amongst those Yorkshire hills, and thinking
with a kindly tenderness of the woman
deemed by the world, perhaps justly, so
harsh and so self-contained, but who had
shown to her not only generosity but love
and confidence.

That Steynton Court was hers — that it had
been left her in Lady Dumbarton's will, there
could be little doubt from Miss Sparke's letter ;
but for the rest she was completely in the
dark, and could form no idea of the amount
of her aunt's legacy. The thought of acquired

wealth perplexed — almost startled her, for,
not being of a practical turn of mind according
to the standard of the young women of
the present day, she had never paid any particular
attention to Eveleen's half-jocular remarks
upon the likelihood of her becoming her
aunt's heiress ; nor indeed had she ever troubled
herself to speculate over the matter in her
own mind. Had she done so, she would
certainly have told herself that, whatever
might have been her chances before in this
direction, she had abruptly put an extinguisher
upon them the day that she less
the Court, contrary to Lady Dumbarton's
express commands, to proceed to Eome. She
little knew that this very contumacious action
of hers, had, instead of working against her
interests, served rather as an additional inducement
to her aunt to provide for one who
paid so little regard to her own pecuniary
interests. But the same day there came, by
the evening post, another letter, containing
full particulars of Lady Dumbarton's will as
affecting herself. This letter was from the
London firm of lawyers who had always
VOL. III. 45

transacted the business of the deceased lady, ;
and ran thus : • 1

Madam, — We are happy to inform you \
that, under the conditions of the will of your i
deceased aunt, the late Lady Dumbarton, of !
Steynton Court, Yorkshire, you are entitled :
to a legacy of twenty thousand pounds at \
present invested chiefly in railway shares, \
and free of charge or incumbrance whatever.
Also to the fine property of Steynton Court, \
which is a freehold unincumbered by mort j
gage. Awaiting your commands, we are,
madam, your obedient servants, ;

Trench and Courts." j

There is no romance about a lawyer's letter. j
Facts are expressed in the plainest of terms \
and the most concise of statements ; and, with ■
this legal document in her hands, Benedetta, \
for the first time, felt that she was indeed a
rich woman, and that her new possessions \
were not a dream but a reality. There was |
no particular exultation in her mind — exulta !
tion is not possible to those who have had |

their very heart-strings wrung by scenes such
as she had lately taken part in — but there
was the strong: contentment of relief, as she
thanked Providence that now, at any rate,
the Maestro's last days were provided for, and
that she could surround her old friend with
every comfort of life of any service to one in
his forlorn condition.

She told him the news that evening in the
presence of old Moroni and his niece. He
listened, but made no comment until Moroni
had spoken.

Well, old friend, this is grand news, is it,
not ? "

Yes, yes," he replied automatically. " But
it will not bring us back our Vino."

The next moment, however, he turned his
face towards her, stretching out his hand
with that wistful movement which was so
touchingly suggestive of the helplessness of
his infirmity.

You are young, my Piccola," he said,
apologetically. " It is well ; I am glad for
your sake."

But, if to the blind and broken hearted

45*

man, slowly fading out of life and its cares
and its interests, the girl's communication
was of little moment, it was not so with
Moroni or his niece. They overwhelmed
Benedetta with congratulations ; and in
their v>^arm-hearted sympathy, showed almost
as much excitement as if a legacy had been
left to themselves. Teresa's large dark eyes
dilated with emotion as she heard of her
friend's newly acquired riches. She fell
upon Benedetta's neck and kissed her repeatedly,
quite unable adequately to express
her feelings ; whilst Moroni jumped up and
wrung her hand in an access of friendly
delight.

Ah ! " said Teresa, half smiling, half
serious, "I shall be afraid of you now,
Signorina — now that you have become a
rich, grand Englishwoman."

Little goose ! " replied Detta, stopping
her mouth with a caress.

We must wish you joy on the occasion
in proper style," said Moroni. " We must
have a fixed meeting to commemorate it, and
to drink your long life and prosperity in the

enjoyment of your new possessions. We
will come again tomorrow night, may we
not, and hold a little festa ? I will bring a
bottle of Asti spumante in my pocket, and
my violin shall come with me. And after we
have drank your happiness, we will have an
overture in your honour. I wil play, and
Teresa here shall sing ; and you also,
signorina, must give us a song."

For a moment, the thought flashed through
the girl's mind that all this friendly rejoicing
was but an unseemly way of commemorating
the death of one who had been good to her,
and for whom in life she had felt an affection
which, although not very deep, had been
sincere ; but she had not the heart to reject
the proposal made with so much pride and
joy by her simple-hearted companions, while
she could not help smiling at the excitement
displayed by the usually calm and somewhat
taciturn elderly musician.

And," continued the latter, " I will on
this occasion, if you will permit me,
signorina, take the opportunity of introducing
my nephew-inlaw elect, Signor

Giovanni Toscani. He also is a musician,
and he too shall bring his violin and play a
fantasia in your honour."

Accordingly, the next evening the whole
party arrived ; and, after the preliminary
congratulations and the drinking of the
Asti wine, a couple of hours were spent in
the performance of music of no mean order.
Signor Toscani was a tall, good-looking
young man, evidently much admired by his
fiancee., for whom he appeared to entertain
a satisfactory affection. He was a member
of the orchestra to which Moroni belonged,
of fair education and of good prospects ;
and, saving for the slight fault of an almost
exaggerated courtesy of manner and excess
of compliment in speech, was outwardly well
mannered enough to Detta's criticising eyes.
And as the two violins blended together,
rising and falling alternately in rapid entreaty
or passionate wail in a concerto of
Beethoven's, she leant back closing her eyes,
entranced, scarcely hearing Teresa's murmur
in her ear.

Ah, Dio ! does he not play beautifully ?"

Whilst even the Maestro roused himself
from his usual apathy, and listened with
clasped hands and a slow smile creeping over
his wan face, to the rare strains of that
harmonious duet.

Play it again, play it again," he said, ina
trembling voice so soon as they had
finished. And the two musicians without
demur did as they were requested, repeating
the piece even more perfectly than before.
It was many months since sounds such as
thes had swelled through the empty space
of Cortauld's long room.

Never had music of such weird and touching
beauty vibrated against the old Palazzo
walls since the days when he and his old
friend, before his illness, had in like manner
sat side by side mingling the tones of their
instruments. When for the second time they
paused, there was a silence of several
moments before Detta turned to thank the
new comer, with the conviction that here
was one whose talents were not unlikely
to gain him promotion before long. Meanwhile,
the Maestro was softly fingering his

own violin. His paralysed riglil, hand and
arm refused to hold and use the bow, but
with his stiffened left fingers he touched a
note here and there fondly.

You must sing to us now, signorina,"
observed Moroni, turning towards her.
That will be a treat indeed for Signor
Toscani, who has never heard you."

She has a beautiful voice," murmured
with generosity little Teresa, who already in
her sweet, slight, tuneful way, had sung a
canzonetta or two.

Ah, do not refuse us, signorina ! " pleaded
Signor Toscani.

Stop," said the Maestro ; " and I will play
your accompaniment — Piccola, you shall
sing them ' Fascia ch'io pianga.' "

This was one of his favourite songs of old ;
one which he well knew peculiarly suited the
full rich notes of the girl's voice. In those
days he had been accustomed to accompany
her with many a grand chord, sweeping run
or delicate shake ; and he could not bear
now to relinquish to others the task in
which he had delighted. But the pizzicato

harmonies now touched by his feeble
fingers were few and faint, although sweet
in tone ; and when he had finished, and the
singer's last words — words that seemed so
sadly appropriate to him — '' Fascia ch'io
pianga la dura sorte, e lie sospiri la liberty ! "
had died away he sighed with an expression
of mingled pain and pleasure on his
face — pleasure due to the hearing of the rich
young voice he loved, and pain due to the
realisation of his own lost powers. Nevermore
would his fingers run w^itli their old
lightning rapidity up and down the strings of
his favourite instrument ; rever more should
he make music to charm the hearts of men,
and to wrap his own soul in a golden dream,
from which this world with its harsh realities
and unlovely cares was banished ! And with
a weary heart he dropped his violin and once
more lay down again.

The next day arrived letters of congratulation
from Mrs. Wildim]^ and Eveleen Drew.
Both were expressed with much heartiness,
and contained one or two interesting facts
regarding Lady Dumbarton's will which

Mies Sparke, either because lie wished to
avoid uncongenial topics, or because she
supposed Benedetta to be already cognisant
of them, had omitted to mention.

Lady Dumbarton, it appeared, had not
forgotten Eva ; she had, however, in vindication
of her small personal regard and her
lifelong conviction of the frivolous nature of
this niece, left the legacy (which amounted
to the sum of ten thousand pounds) — not to
her but to her husband. Major Drew. " As
we are not likely to be divorced, this is a
fact of little importance," wrote Eva. " It
shows, / think, that if I hadn't married
Arthur, I should have got nothing at all ;
but Arthur says it shows the relenting of
her conscience, which an innate pride forced
her to veil in this delicate manner. I'm
afraid I think the motives of very little
consequence so long as we get possession of
the hard cash ! For we did really rather
want it, Detta mia. Poor aunt ! peace be to
her ashes 1 I have no reason to quarrel with
her now ; for I never expected to benefit by
a penny of hers. And I am quite overjoyed

at the handsome lump she has left to you.
It is rather hard on mama, though, of course,
we both knew she would get nothing from
our affectionate relative ; but the only thing
that has caused either of us any sincere
disappointment is the fact of that wretched
old toady and canter, Miss Sparke, making
hay to the amount of five hundred pounds.
I am a mean creature, dear Detta ; I am not
half so generous as you, I fear ! "

There was certainly little meanness about
Eva's natural disposition ; yet Benedetta, as
she laid her cousin's letter down, was
conscious that it had jarred somewhat upon
her.

It would be difficult, she felt, for Eveleen
to enter into her own feelings on the matter ;
to her. Lady Dumbarton had been nothing
more than a stiff, unsympathetic, harshly
judging relative. But to Detta, who had
always perceived the natural integrity and
justice of her aunt's character, who had
nursed her in her weakness and had seen
her softer side, had been avowedly loved too
by the dead woman, there seemed for the

/

moment something unpleasantly hard and
flippant in her cousin's light remarks. Our
judgment usually softens towards those who
lie in their graves, more especially if they
have at any time shown the least regard for
us ; and, as the girl read over that part of
Eveleen's letter which repeated to her the
words in which her aunt had embodied the
gift of her own legacy — " to my dearest
niece, Benedetta Campbell, who has shown
me much kindness, and whom may God bless
and preserve, if lie will, to a long and
prosperous life" — her heart filled with a
sudden flood of compassion for the memory
of this woman of cold and unattractive
exterior, so little framed to excite in others
spontaneous affection.

For the rest, only a portion — barely half in
fact — of her fortune was left by the deceased
woman to her relatives and dependents. The
other half was bequeathed in equal proportions
to four well-known London hospitals,
with the request that her name might be
attached to the new wards thus endowed.
Was this because she, who through life, had

made so few friends, desired — with that vague
yearning for the good word and the regard
of our fellow-creatures which at times infects
the sternest and most self-contained of persons
by this means to perpetuate her grateful
memory in the hearts of suffering men and
women, who, exchanging their neglected
misery for skilled nursing and necessary
comforts, should rise up and call her
blessed ?

It may well have been so. But it is not
perhaps astonishing that the relations of the
rich should hold in highest esteem tliat^
charity which both begins and ends at
home ; and that Mrs. Wilding, on being
put into possession of the substance of her
half-sister's will, and in view of her own
previous losses and her present legacy of fifty
pounds, should remark sardonically that to
wear crepe for Maria would be a foolish extravagance
on her part, and quite an insult
to the memory of so extremely sincere a
woman.

ALONE IN THE PALAZZO.

A FEW weeks later Teresa Moroni and
Signor Toscani were united in the
bonds of wedlock. " Come and see me
married, dear signorina," little Teresa lead
said to her friend; and Benedetta, accompanied
by Bianca, who had expressed a
desire also to witness the ceremony, did as
she had been requested. There was to be no
wedding breakfast or fuss of any sort ; the
young couple were to be married quite
simply, and afterwards go for a few days'
holiday to the neighbourhood of Albano.
The service was at an early hour in the
morning ; and Detta, as she made her way
through the streets which even at eight
o'clock were close and stifling, as much
perhaps with the exhalations of the last

day's sun as with the new warmth of
the present cloudless morning, felt inclined
to envy her friend her pleasant sojourn
amid the cool shade and sweet pure air of
Albano.

The service was soon over, and after
shaking hands with the blushing bride and
her good-looking bridcOTOom, and having
seen them depart towards their carriage at
the foot of the church steps, Detta prepared
with a half-sigh to follow them. She should
miss Teresa, her simple-hearted, affectionate
little companion of the last few weeks : and.

a. ■"

cordially she hoped that Signor Toscani would
know how to appreciate so guileless and
loving a bride. Her mind was full of the
two as she descended the steps, Bianca beside
her.

At the bottom of them a little knot of men
was standing conversing with another on
horseback ; and Benedetta as she neared
them, raised her eyes for a moment. Her
glance fell upon the figure on horseback,
and seemed arrested there. She had in fact
no power to turn away her eyes, as she

stood just above him, rooted to the spot, an
inexpressible horror gathering upon her
features.

The man whom she thus regarded so fixedly
paused for a moment in his conversation,
losing the thread of his discourse : then, as
that uncomfortable gaze still remained fixed
upon him, and seeing that the attention of
his friends had been aroused, he bent forward
in his saddle, bowing with an unmistakable
air of bravado. " Good morning, signorina,"
he said, his lips curling into an uncomfortable
smile.

But at the sound of his voice, a shudder
passed over the girl. The string of her own
tongue seemed loosened ; and trembling allover
with a passion she could not have defined
whether of terror, indignation or abhorrence
the burning words flowed unconsciously
from her lip-your's

she said, catching her breath,
you dare to speak to me again ? It was
you who murdered him — him, Ino Barton
! " The next moment a mist swam
before her eyes ; and, with a sudden pain

at her heart, she fell forward upon the marble
steps.

When she recovered consciousness she was
driving through the streets in a hired carriage,
supported by Bianca. There was a sharp smarting
pain at her forehead ; and putting up her
hand, she found that it was bleeding
profusely.

Ah ! " said her companion, who began to
scold her the moment she opened her eyes ;
that is what you got by falling on the steps; and
no wonder ! It is a mercy you did not kill
yourself. You must have been mad,
signorina. Ah, Dio ! what a thing to do !
To stand upon the public church steps and
make an accusation of murder ! And to a
rich, well-born gentleman like the Conte della
Coschia ! It is a wonder that you are not
now in the hands of the police. What a
disgrace ! I would that I had not come outwith
the signorina this morning ! "

Benedetta was still too faint and weak to

make any response to these selfish plaints ;

she only shrank away from Bianca, feeling

how different was the nature of this girl from

VOL. III. 46

that of lier old friend Betting ; and longing
for the painful jolting upon the roughly paved
streets to be over. When at length they
reached the Palazzo, she was thankful to
retire to her own little room ; and with an
aching head to lie down, her heart sore vv'ith
the burden of her thoughts.

Not perhaps since the day of his death, had
the untimely fate of Ino moved her to so
tender and so poignant a regret. It had
seemed so terrible to see this man —
the one whom she told herself she knew
to be his murderer, alive and well and
prosperous, surrounded by friends, with a
smile upon his false lips ; whilst Ino, cut
down by his hand, lay cold and forgotten
in the adjacent cemetery. How was it that
the bad, the cruel, and the vicious lived on
in wealth, in happiness, in popularity, undisturbed
— whilst the blood of one, good, useful
and innocent, cried in vain for vengeance from
the silent grave ?

She rose up presently, wandering about
aimlessly. She could not lie still with that
fever in her veins — the fever of re-awakened

grief for her friend, of passionate and impotent
indignation against his destroyer.

Her heart was too full of absorbing
emotions and of memories of the past for
her to take much heed of her ordinary
surroundings. And afterwards she remembered
with a pang, that she had been too
pre-occupied to think much of the Maestro
that day ; and that she had paid but little
attention to his more than usually drowsy and
lethargic condition.

She was awakened the next morning from
the heavy sleep of exhaustion by the sound of
a stir outside her door, followed by a scream
from the maid-servant.

Signorina, signorina ! " exclaimed Bianca,
rushing into her room.

But, before she had time to speak further,
she was followed by Signora Scalchi, who
placed a hand across her mouth.

Be silent, you fool ! " shepard, pushing the
girl as she spoke out of the room. But
Benedetta had already sprung out of bed.

What is it ? " she asked, full of apprehension.


46*

The signer has had another fit," said her
companion, approaching the girl with more
of kindness in her manner than she had ever
before shown to her young lodger.

The Maestro ? I will go to him." And
Benedetta hastily flung a dressing-gown over
her shoulders. But the signora placed herself
in her way.

Do not go, signorina," she said. " He
will not know you." And she took the
girl's hand, trying to force her to re-seat
herself.

"He is dead ! " exclaimed Benedetta with a
glance into her face.

Ah, il povero signor ! He has been dead
these three or four hours. He is quite cold.
He must have died in his sleep. But comfort
yourself, signorina ; there is no pain upon
his face ; he must have passed away
peacefully."

And so, thus abruptly, fell the blow which
had indeed been long expected and long
delayed, but which at the end, as so often
happens, seemed to find Delta all unprepared
to meet it.

Many of us may have remarked how rarely
it is the case that bereavements come singly.
Death has a strangle cruel fashion when
he has struck down one of our friends, of
following up the loss with another and a
third. It seems as if the thirst for possession
in our unseen foe grew with its very
gratification, and insisted upon a yet fuller
satisfaction.

It would perhaps be impossible for a
young girl to be in a much lonelier
position than was Benedetta now ; and even
Signora Scalchi, as she watched the mournful
figure keeping its silent watch in the room
where her old friend, with his hands at rest
and a serene calm upon the wearied features,
lay waiting to be carried to his long last
home, felt a thrill of compassion for the
almost friendless signorina. She showed
considerable kindness to her, taking all
the arrangements of the funeral, connected
with the English church and ritual though
it were, off her hands ; and when towards
evening the sad moment came that the
body must be carried away, to remain all

night in the mortuary, leading her with
rough sympathy to her own chamber, and
striving to console her with well meant
words.

She would not let the girl return alone to
the now empty room — from which even the
figure that outlined itself upon the bed, beneath
the snowy sheet sprinkled with sweet-scented
flowers, had been removed. She tried
to persuade her to come and sit with herself
and Bianca in the little parlour leading out of
the kitchen ; and when she found that was
impossible, brought her work and sat beside
her in the Maestro's room, making some remark
every now and then, or asking some
question intended to distract her thoughts,
but in reality scarcely heard by her companion.


Detta's mind was far away, dwelling upon
the days of her childhood and those whose
love had hedged it round — one and all of
whom had now been swept away, and she
alone left. Perhaps too reproaching herself
needlessly, as we so often do on such occasions,
with the tormenting thought that — had

she but known it was this last day upon earth —
how tenderly she would have caressed her old
friend the evening before, how she would have
striven to earn from him some last word showing
consciousness, some last smile of farewell
affection.

One observation, however, of the signora's
roused her from her mournful reverie, starting
thought in a new direction.

The simorina will return to England, I
suppose now ? " she remarked. " I shall be
sorry ; but it would be too lonely for her here.
And, once in England, she will marry song
fine gentleman — some milord, perhaps — and
forget all her troubles."

Then, with a new sadness at her heart,
Benedetta thought of Beresford Conway.
Would he have been sorry for her if he
could have seen her now in her loneliness
and grief? Would he have told her that he
still loved her, and perhaps avowed that the
letter he wrote about herself and Ino had
been dictated not by indifference but by
wounded pride ? Ah, never before had she
so terribly wanted some one to comfort

her ; never before lead she known what it
was to feel so lost and helpless amid the
changes and chances of life, and to yearn
so greatly for one who might be both strong
and tender — one upon whom she could
lean in her trouble and feel assured of consolation.


I no's letter A MISSION FULFILLED.

rpHE express train from Brindisi to Ancona
1 is not a remarkably rapid one to
English sensations, although one of the best
of its nation. Neither is the scenery of an
exhilarating or particularly interesting
character as you wind along the level
eastern coast.

To a couple of Englishmen seated together
in a first-class compartment of the
train, the pace appeared of an irritating
deliberation, and the scenery conspicuous by
its absence.

But then British subjects in a foreign
country half smothered in dust, and in a
hurry to reach their destinations, are proverbially
persons of small patience and irritable
temper.

They were, however, now nearing the
junction where their paths must separate
; and both had flung down their
books and papers for a last chat before
parting.

You intend going on to Eome, do you
not ? " remarked the younger of the two to his
companion.

Yes. And you straight through to
England ? "

Straight' through. I shan't even stop a
day in Paris. You see it is five sears since
I have seen my people. Do you think of staying
long in Eome ? "

I can't say. Possibly not. But I am in
no such hurry as sou to return to England. I
have only been out of it a little more than a
year."

True. Have you any thought of returning
to' Africa ? "

No. I can't say I have."

Out at the diamond fields, weren't
you?"

"Eor three months. And a beastly place
it was."

It rarely pays going out to those mines,
does it ? "

Well, I don't know. In my case it paid
very well. A man has no cause for complaint
who finds he can lay out a small
capital at the rate of about a thousand percent."


By Jove ! Were you doing that ? "

Beresford Conway — for it was he — nodded
his head.

Father better than regimental 'pay ! " remarked
his companion. " By the powers !
I'd have stuck to the work, if I'd been you."

I don't think you would, when you had
seen what Kimberley was like — not for long
at least."

Well," said the other ; " whenever you
reach England, I hope you'll look md up. You
know my address, I think. Give me yours in
Town."

Beresford took out one of his cards and
hastily scribbled a few words upon it.

We had a pleasant time on board the old
boat, had we not ? " he said. " I should be
glad to meet again."

On the card was written " Lord Carleton,
375, St. James' Street, Piccadilly."

The younger man stared at the words.

By George ! " he exclaimed. " I never
knew sou were a lord ! "

No more did I," said Beresford smiling,
until the day before I left the Cape."

"But you gave yourself out as Mr. Conway
on board ? "

Yes. I had entered my name so for my
cabin, and it didn't seem worth while to
bother about a new title. I only heard of
my brother's death the morning before I
sailed."

Well," said his companion, " if I had
known you were such a swell "

I'm not a swell at all. I'm as poor asa
church mouse, and have been living
amongst the roughs until I've lost all my
manners. But here we are approaching the
junction."

When do you reach Eome ? " inquired the
younger man, as both rose and began to shake
off accumulated dust, and to collect their
travelling impedimenta.

Some time in the middle of the night.
It's an awful slow business, is it not ? "

And as the engine bustled into the noisy
and breathless station, the two shook hands
cordially, but with that absence of sentiment
and that brevity of speech characteristic of
Englishmen in their partings with congenial
friends ; then separating in their different
directions.

About the same time that the shrill whistle
of the midnight express echoed through the
Eoman terminus, Benedetta Campbell, lying
in her bed in the little room at the top of the
Palazzo, had at length closed her weary eyes
and forgotten her sorrows in a fitful, restless
slumber.

She was of the age when sleep is an absolute
necessity, and when it usually comes at
the lightest call ; but her rest to-ni<?ht was
too disturbed to be of any comfort to her, and
she rose in the morning unrefreshed, with
pale cheeks and dark circles round her
eyes.

It was still very early when she dressed
herself, and creeping into the empty apart-merit,

knelt down beside the Maestro's bed.
It seemed so strangle to see the room untenanted
— both bed and arm-chair vacant ;
and to feel that her office of love, her tender
ministry to the feeble old man whose spirit still
seemed to pervade the place, was for ever
over.

Her tears flowed fast, although she wept in
silence ; and she was too tired, too sorrowful
to touch the coffee which presently Bianca
brought to her.

She was waiting, wondering when it would
be time for her to descend the stairs, and, accompanied
by Signora Scalchi, to make her
way in the hired carriage towards the English
church where the last rites were to be performed
over her old friend. She had determined
to be there. Only two mourners would
the Maestro have — herself and old Moroni ;
but they would be sincere and loving ones.
Yet when the moment came she shrank from
the outer world and from the ordeal of the
trying service, and felt thankful even for the
small consolation of Signora Scalchi's companionship
and rough attentions. When, an

hour later, they returned, Biaiica met them at
the door somewhat eagerly.

A signor has been here," she said ; " an
English signor, I think, inquiring after the
signorina. I told him she was gone to the
funeral of the old signor ; and he said he
would call again presently"

She seemed to expect her news to be
of interest ; but Benedetta passed her by
without remark, not caring even to ask a
question regarding her unexpected visitor.
'Very likely it might be young Eichardson,
or some one whose coming or going would
be of equally little importance to her. The
only Englishman whom she would really have
cared to see was Major Drew ; and he was
not likely to be in Eome thus abruptly
without her knowledge.

She passed on wearily, and went to the
Maestro's room, seating herself in her old
favourite place beside the window. She
knew the time had come when she must
be fixing her plans and making some arrangements
for the future. Now that she had no
longer any ties in Eome, it would doubtless

be best for her to return to England, and to
consult with her relations as to where she
should live and what she should do. It
might be that the wisest course would be for
her to settle down at Steynton Court, inviting
Aunt Fanny to share her home. But she
was too hot and tired to think about it now ;
she would put off all that till the morrow.

One day's rest she must have — a few hours
to devote to the memory of the Palazzo life
and her dead friends — and then she would
set her face towards England, and pack up
and depart, bidding farewell, it might be forever,
to this great city of Eome, where two-thirds
of her life had been passed, and
beneath whose soil lay buried the remains
of the two friends, who, since her earliest
remembrance, had loved her with a fond and
true affection.

She lay back and closed her eyes. She
was not asleep ; but her mind had so lost
itself in sad absorbing thoughts that sounds
outside the room passed by her ear unheard.
She did not notice steps that came along the
carpeted corridor, and only opened her eyes

when the steps, which were firm and strong,
iinUke those of Bianca, or her aunt, or old
Moroni, came into the room and paused
abruptly. And before she rose, the newcomer
had time to see for a moment the
pale face and drooping head so expressive
of despondency.

But, as the word " Benedetta ! " fell upon
her ears, she started up, half dazzled by the
sun-light's glare, and confused by the sudden
interruption of her reverie. Who was there
now to call her by her name in that tone of
lingering tenderness? For a moment it
seemed to her that the dead must have
returned to life, and that it was Ino who
stood there so softly calling her. But the
next she saw that the figure was taller and
broader than Ino's, that the tanned face was
a fair one, and that the new-comer was one
whom she had believed to be many thousand
miles away in the heart of South Africa.
She remained motionless, gazing up at him,
too startled either to move or speak. But, ashe
repeated her name, approaching her, his
eyes full of compassion, all the joy and relief
VOL. Ill 47

in lier heart suddenly spoke out in lier flushed
and changing face.

Will you come to me, Benedetta ? " he
asked, gravely.

And she waited for no further invitation,
but came to him without a word, laying her
head upon his breast, and feeling, as his
arms closed round her, that wonderful peace
which is the heritage of those who, after
many storms, find themselves at length
launched all unexpectedly into calm, untroubled
waters.

"Why did ^o\\ come? How did you
know ? " she asked, after a pause of happiness
— she knew not whether long or short,
for —

To those who walk in Paradise,
The falling feet of Time are stilled —
They know not if he creeps or flies."

Then, in silence, he took a crumpled paper
out of his pocket-book and put it into her
hands. The words were very few and she
was startled to see that they were in Vino's
handwriting.

You are under a mistake. I have never

been anything to the Signorina Campbell buta
dear friend ; and she is my beloved sister.
If she cares for anyone, it is for you.'

There was no commencement to the letter,
neither were there anv concluding: words .save
the simple signature, " E. Bartolucci." It had
been too hard for the young sculptor to
preface or terminate this supreme effort of
self-sacrifice by the usual friendly additions.

The tears filled Detta's eyes and ran
quickly down her cheeks as she read the
two lines written by the dead man ; and, ,
for the first time, realised the full nobility,
the perfect generosity, of his conduct
towards her. By the date of the letter,
she saw that it must have been written
the very day of his assassination ; that the
hand that penned it was a few hours later
cold and stiff, and that it was, perhaps,
almost the last action of his life.

So soon as she could control her Coition,
she told Beresford all the sad details of
Eaffaelino's end — a story to which he listened
with silent interest — moved more than he.-
chose to show.

Presently, however, as was natural, they
turned to other and more personal topics.

I feel," said Beresford, " that I am doing
a cool thing to ask any woman to marry me —
my means being so limited as they are. 1 don't
wish to trade under false colours, so I state
the fact. But you hated me so much when I
was rich, Detta, that I fancied I might have a
better chance if I came to you as a poor
man."

Yes," she said blushing, and with a little
childish glee in her voice, " I am the rich one
now."

And she proceeded to tell him of Lady
Dumbarton's legacy.

By Jove ! " he said, " if I had known
that., I don't think I should ever have had
the courage to come to Eome."

Then, seeing her enquiring, half-frightened
look, he pressed his lips to the smooth round
cheek which looked so inviting for a kiss.

Foolish little Detta," he said, drawing her
towards him, "so you would have cared ?
But, perhaps, even your being an heiress
might not have put me off obtaining that

which for two years I had set my heart
upon."

Not two years, Mr. Conway ! "

Beresford, if you please," he said. " Besides,
Conway isn't my name now."

Not your name?"

"No. It's rather a bore. I hope you
won't mind. But the truth is, poor Fred's
dead, and I've got to be Lord Carleton, you
know."

Oh, Beresford ! " she exclaimed in an awestruck
tone.

Father a nuisance, isn't it ? But it's not
my fault, as you'll admit. I expected Fred
would have married Miss Alicia Jones, and
had a dozen children ; but he didn't. He
died instead, poor fellow. Well, now you've
got all this money, you will be able to start
the Model Lodging-houses whenever you like.
Have you forgotten our day in Whitechapel,
Detta, and the night of cousin Fanny's ball,
when you first informed me what a defective
character I was ? "

"Oh, Beresford," she murmured, hiding her
face on his breast, " when I think of that

evening, and — and other times, I feel so
ashamed of myself "

Not at all. Woman's mission is to regenerate
man. And you were quite right. I
was a disgustingly lazy, useless fellow."

"You have worked hard enough the last
year," she said, raising her face. " And you
have grown so brown, Beresford, and look so
bii? and stroud."

And you have grown far lovelier than
you were before, or even than I pictured you
in my South African dreams, my little Detta."

Did you often think of me then, Beresford?"


Now, why is it that during an interesting
tete-astute of this description, some one is invariably
found to break in, at the most inopportune
moment, upon the lovers? Is it
merely to impress us with the uncertain
duration of human bliss ? Or is it that Puck
and Cupid have bound themselves, like
Corsican foes, in the toils of an eternal feud?
The happy pair were on this occasion so completely
engrossed in each other as to be absolutely
unconscious of the entrance of the

visitor, who liacl to cough twice, at first
modestly and apologetically, and afterwards
spasmodically and half indignantly, before he
could succeed in attracting their attention.
His presence having been perceived, however,
the result was instantaneous and startling ; as
what was before one, became two with the
rapidity of lightning, and Detta, with a face
whose hues might have been envied by the
peony, advanced to meet the intruder.

This was none other than old Moroni, whose
confusion at his mal apropos entrance almost
rivalled that of the sicrnorina. Recovering
however, she performed her part with
propriety, introducing the two men to one
another.

Signer Moroni is a great friend of mine''
she said to her companion.

In that case"' he replied, with a humorous
smile, " might it not be as well to inform
him of the — a — position we hold towards each
other?"

This, with considerable embarrassment (buta
certain comfort in the reflection that Italian
was an unknown tongue to her fiancee) Detta

accordingly did. But it was a hard task when
she had to translate for her lover's benefit the
profuse compliments and many flowery congratulations
with which the musician, standing
in the first position and with a low bow
between every few words, felt it incumbent
upon him to respond to the information.
She broke down at last with many hot
blushes, warned in time by the increasing
twinkle of amusement in Lord Carleton's
eyes.

His pretty speeches over, Signor Moroni
proceeded promptly to business.

I thought," he said, with a simple kindliness,
not altogether free from embarrassment,
that the signorina might perhaps be a little
lonely. I came to beg her to accept of
my poor hospitality, and to honour my roof
with her presence, if only for a time. M}^
sister is with me, and will do her best, I
know, to make the signorina comfortable.
And in a few days, my niece, Teresa, and
her husband will be comic? to visit us.
There could be no greater joy for Teresa than
to find the sio^norina there when she arrives."

Benedetta took the old mean's hand in hers
for a moment.

How kind, how very kind you are tome
! " she said ; adding after a short pause, " I
shouki like to come."

And turning to Beresford, she once more
acted as interpreter.

Yes, go," he said ; " you are quite right.
I suppose I may not come too ? "

And so it was settled. And the very next
day, Benedetta put together her small amount
of luggage, and bidding farewell to Signora
Scalchi, walked for the last time down the
corridor of the old Palazzo ; then, descending;
the stairs in company with her courteous old
host, proceeded to his house, there to take
up her quarters for an uncertain time.

The uncertain time, however, proved
shorter than was expected. To one in
Benedetta's position, without home, occupation,
or ties, all the circumstances of
life seemed to add force to Beresford's
demand for an early marriage.

Certainly, Lord Carleton was a most
audacious and persevering lover. He

pleaded this own constancy, their long
separation, Detta's loneliness, as so many
reasonable grounds for a concession to this
wishes ; and when he found that, with all
her affection for him, yet that she shrank
shyly from his proposal of only a fortnight's
delay — then, with a machiavellian guile, he declared
his health threatened by the dangerous
climate of a Eoman autumn, and so worked
upon her alarmed feelings as to resolve opposition
into instant and terrified submission.

And so, almost before Eveleen and her
mother had had time to write their congratulatory
letters, or to realise the astonishing
triple fact that Beresford had returned
from the Cape, that Beresford had become
Lord Carleton, and that Beresford was
engaged to their half-foreign relative, the
two were married without fuss or ceremony
whatever, and emigrated for a couple of
days' visit to the picturesque neighbourhood
of Tivoli. Then they set their faces towards
England, in order, as Beresford said, that his
wife might at once undertake the new cares
and responsibilities of a woman of property.

Shall we live at Steynton, love ? " he
had asked. " Or would you," he demanded
gravely, " prefer a lodging in Whitechapel,
whence we micfht watch the erection of the
new Model Lodging Houses P "

Before leaving the land of her birth,
however, Benedetta, accompanied by her
husband, paid one or two farewell visits.
Living friends in Rome were few, old Moroni
and his niece being her only intimate acquaintances.
But two friends there were,
both under found, to whose Staves she
must say a last good-bye before she
returned northwards. One was that of an
old man who had been ripe for the sickle,
worn and weary, when he went to his
long rest. The other that of a young
man in his prime of life — noble of purpose,
talented and beautiful — the victim
of treachery. The two had been equally
dear to her. And now that the voices
of both were hushed, and that the living
influences of both were merged into but a
pathetic memory, the old city felt no longer
home of hers.

Beresford kept silence, as in turn she
visited each grave, heaping upon it her
garlands of rare, sweet . flowers — for the
moment so recalled into the vanished past
as even to forget his presence. When, at
length she returned to his side, her eyes
were full of tears ; and he put his arm
around her.

I wish the crosses had been up before we
left Rome," she said : " I should like to have
seen them. Oh, Beresford, I feel as if all
my girlhood had left me with those two.
They were very dear to me."

They are sacred to me, too, m}^ Piccola,
if onljr because of their love to you.
Without that noble fellow," and he pointed
towards Ino's grave, " I might perhaps,
never have hound my way to you, dear. We
might have missed each other at last — who
knows ? "

THE END,

(^
