-lips

mmmmmmM

■

I

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

Se
Gc3UV>

v. I

Keats: WHAT'S IN A NAME.

NEW AND CHEAPER EDITION.
Complete in One Volume, Crown 8vo, price 6s.

SPECTATOR.

"It is long since we have read a story in which excellence of plot and excellence
of character-painting are so well combined. From the first page to the last

the reader is thoroughly interested in the story Such evenness of execution,

such admirable balance between the interest of the story, the interest of the
characters, and the mere interest of the local colouring itself, is very rare."

STANDARD.
"We have said that 'Reata' is a capital novel; and so it is. The plot is
original and excellent Bright and gay and sparkling."

LONDON GUARDIAN.

It is pleasant to read a book that has evidently been a delight to the author,
full of play, as it were, showing exuberance of enjoyment of the scenes and

characters When read over again, with the key to the plot, the tale loses

nothing of its charm."

DAILY NEWS.

"The story is strikingly fresh and original."

VANITY FAIR.

' Reata' is one of those charming books which to read is to remember."

DAILY TELEGRAPH.

"A well-sustained dramatic interest marks it as a story ; and a fresh and easy
style aids the effect of this novel as a rolling panorama of scenes, which have
evidently been studied with keen observation."

GRAPHIC.

It is impossible to avoid awarding it the highest praise. Whether in description
of Mexican tropical scenery or German watering-place society, whether in
sketching the Prussian officer, or, place aux dames, the fascinating young Creole
heiress, the author is equally at home. The book is sure to take one of the first
places in the novels of the season, and we can in all sincerity congratulate the
author on having achieved a striking success. ' Reata' is a charming novel."

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD & SONS, Edinburgh and London.

BEGGAR MY Neighbour

A NOVEL

BY

E. D. Gerard

AUTHOR OF 'REATA: WHAT'S IN A NAME

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXII

CONTENTS OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

INTRODUCTORY,

PAGE



PART I.

CHAP.

I. THE CARDS ARE DEALT,
II. A NON-PLAYER,
III. ONE OF THE KNAVES,
IV. TWO OF THE QUEENS,
V. AT THE COURT OF THE SPADE
VI. FINESSING,
VII. QUEEN OF HEARTS,
VIII. Martin's CARDS,

IX. QUEEN OF DIAMONDS,
X. CUTTING FOR PARTNERS,
XI. SHE LOST THE TRICK,
XII. " CARTES OUVERTES,"
XIII. THE CARDS ARE SHUFFLED,
XIV. KING AND QUEEN, .

KING

















Introductory.

Three boys were playing at cards ; and the game they
played was " Beggar my Neighbour."

Not, strictly speaking, " Beggar my Neighbour," for
that is an English game, and these were Polish boys ;
but on every spot of earth, whether it be in England,
Poland, the tropic or the arctic regions, there is always
some way of beggaring one's neighbour, if only one
has the will and the talent for doing so. In different
countries the process has got different names —
at cards ; the result is everywhere the same.

A large and lofty room, with tall windows, curtain-less
; a polished floor, careless ; stiff red velvet
chairs, which scarcely lessen the look of emptiness ;
an enormous mirror, hanging out of the perpendicular,

VOL. I. a

which makes the room emptier, larger, more stately,
more dreary, and throws back a puny image of the
three children at their distant card-table. Far away
and dwarfish they look in their quaint costume, their
broad white collars and short green jackets. Their
voices wander up to the ceiling and waken echoes, —
three little figures swallowed up in their surroundings,
lost against their background. And not in the mirror
alone is an image of the card-players to be found. A
row of old portraits, dingy, and framed in dingy gold ;
Romans nosed Polish heroes, and simpering Polish
beauties, would make a spectator look from the canvas
to two at least of those boy-faces down there.

The eldest card-player — Kazimir by name — whose
age is eleven, has brown wavy hair, and eager, resolute
brown eyes, which correct the softness of his smiling
lips. He plays his cards with determination, but
scarcely with prudence ; for calmness has given way
at sight of the brilliant prize at stake, — an old battered
silver watch, I think it was.

Martin, the second card-player, a year younger, is
like his brother — but as a blurred photograph is like
the original, as a face in the water is like a living face.
He does not play his cards at all, unless he be reminded
to do it.

The youngest card-player never misses his turn, and
as the game reaches the climax he grows a little pale.

At the age of eight it is surely permissible to turn pale
because of a silver watch, even a battered watch,
which requires winding-up four times a-day. Lucian
is not like his brothers, nor like the pictures on the
wall. He has coal-black hair and a sallow face.

There, on the red velvet sofa, sits a pale woman
with just such hair, elaborately curled; she is the
mother of the three boys, and she is watching their
game.

So earnestly is she watching that she does not hear
the far-off door open, nor notice the entrance of a tall
man in an embroidered dressing-gown, and holding a
long Turkish pipe, who now with rapid strides approaches
the group. He is a man scarcely past the
prime of life, in face the very copy of those pictures
on the wall ; but there is a worn look on his handsome
features.

Cards again ! " says a high and passionate voice.
Have I not forbidden them ? " but before he has
reached the table, little Lucyan has thrown down his
last king (the kings and aces always did find their
way into Lucyan's hand, no matter how the cards
were dealt), and, clutching the battered prize, has
retired into the background. He knows well enough
that the best policy lies in keeping his treasure out of
sight, until his father's anger is spent, as it will be
spent in ten minutes, perhaps in five.

Poor children ! they have had but one game,"
pleads the mother; but the passionate man retorts —

I will not have my children shown the highroad
to gambling ! "

What an exemplary father ! what a weak indulgent
mother ! you say. So much for appearances.

Madame Bielinska is almost as wise as she is fond,
and Bogumil Bielinski is the most desperate gambler
to be found for miles around. Here is the family
history in brief.

This lofty apartment is the chief room in the residence
which stands on the Bielinskis' chief estate.
There are other estates belonging to this family, and
there have been more estates belonging to it which
now belong to other families, or which have been
swallowed up by a great insatiable monster, which
in Poland they call " the Jew." When " the Jew "
has once had a taste of any one's ancestral houses
and lands, it is very difficult to check his appetite.

Every one of the ancestors on the wall has helped
towards this end. All those haughty magnates and
fierce warriors have worked their part ; the beauty in
cream-coloured brocade has contributed her mite. It
takes a long time to run through a fortune which
draws its strength from miles of rich land, tilled by
vassals, over whom the master holds the old feudal
rights; but free living, large-hearted, short-sighted

Polish hospitality, open-handed bounty, when continued
steadily through half-a-dozen generations, will
do their work at last.

It needed only one thing to accelerate the downhill
speed of the Bielinski fortunes, and this need had
been supplied by the present head of the family.
Other Bielinskis had gambled and had paid the
penalty, but it had been as a recreation in the intervals
of respite from graver business. This one
gambled as a business; it was his one solitary passion,
his darling and only vice ; it filled him mind
and soul; it was the idol, the love of his life.

Of course he lost. It is always the losing gambler
who plunges again and again into the whirlpool that
is to engulf him. But Bogumil Bielinski lost in a
quiet, gentlemanlike style. He carried his bad fortunes
with an easy grace; he lost his money, but
he did not lose his head. He himself was beyond
curing — his wife knew that, his friends knew that, he
knew that himself ; but his children might still grow
up wiser men than their father. This was the secret
of his stern prohibition of cards. He meant to bring
up his sons according to the high moral principles in
which he firmly believed, and on which he never
acted. The hope of making them as different as possible
in every way from himself, gave a zest to his
existence ; and his system was carried out rigorously

in details. While puffing the smoke luxuriously out
of his long Turkish pipe, he would hold forth at length
upon the baneful effects of tobacco; wrapped negligently
in his silk-embroidered dressing-gown, he would
severely reprimand the slightest slovenliness in dress.
The only instance in which his preaching coincided
with his practice was the use of a cold shower-bath in
the morning. Early rising was one of the virtues
which he most cultivated — in his sons. Therefore,
the three boys, having been shaken out of bed at six
A.M., were brought into his bedroom and sent in turn
behind a tall screen, to wince and pant under the icy
shower. In an evil day some ill-natured domestic
betrayed poor Marcin. Marcin hated cold water as
much as it was in his nature to hate anything. It
was much pleasant to run round and round the
shower, and no one at the other side of the screen was
a bit the wiser. Then came the cruel sentence : no
screen, no possibility of escape ! The high-principled
father watched the execution of the sentence from the
depth of his feather pillows, and over the edge of his
satin coverlet. Then, the three victims dismissed, he
would turn over for another doze ; and later on, when
the boys were hard at their books, he would comedown,
refreshed by his own bath, to pass their studies
in review.

Bogumil's wife was held by most people to be a

fond, foolish, and bigoted woman ; too phlegmatic to
attempt any check upon her husband's reckless course.
But these people did not quite read her. She was a
woman who had so many outward signs of the weak-minded
: ready tears, hysterical symptoms, an affected
lisp, and, on occasion, fainting-fits — that few people
found out that she was not weak-minded. She had
weak nerves, and a strong will, which she had never
as yet cared to use, and perhaps was a little indolent
about using. She had long ago discovered that her
husband was incurable, and she had long ago foreseen
what the end would be. With that end only would
come her time for action. When Bogumil should
have gambled away his last farthing, then her fortune
alone would stand between her children and beggary ;
and her fortune he should not touch. But that time
was some little way off yet ; many acres of land still
divided them from ruin. For a few more years she
might enjoy life in luxurious ease, as she loved to
enjoy it, and as she had enjoyed it ever since, as an
orphan girl, she had left her convent-school, in her
wedding-dress, hardly knowing what her future was
to be, and knowing little more about her past, nor
from whom she had got her pale Greek face, and the
depth of her oriental eyes.

She agreed in the main with her husband's system
of education ; but she did not see why the poor children

should be half frozen to death on winter mornings,
nor why they should be forbidden to play a harmless
game at cards.

So, while the mother pleads, the father scolds.
Cards make gamblers ; take them away ! " and very
quickly they are taken away — and once out of sight,
Bielinski's passion vanishes too. Now only his real
manner becomes evident ; for he is a man intellectually
refined ; when in good temper has a sweetness
and fascination perfectly irresistible; but is, when
contradicted, entirely without self-control, and therefore
extravagantly passionate.

With characteristic ease he has now dismissed the
unpleasant side of the subject from his mind, and
draws his eldest son towards him. One train of
thought wakes another. " Be anything but gamblers
when you are men," he has said ; and an eccentric
impulse moves him to make his children choose their
professions, now, on the spot. He never resists an
impulse.

Kazio, what will you be when you are a man ? Let
us see what your buttons say : tinker, tailor "

Soldier ! " shouts Kazimir, without waiting for the
oracle to decide. Not much need of an oracle either, —
witness the tables slashed with sabre-cuts, the gaping
sword-wound which disfigures the canvas limbs of that

white charger on the wall, the broomsticks turned into
lances, — these are answers enough.

Ha ! of course, a Polish soldier ; but we have no
army yet." Bogumil, as he says it, looks very like
that haughty warrior on the wall. " A pity, boy, —
a great pity ! Patience, it must come. But you must
learn your work from strangers ; better Austria than
Russia. By the time you are a man we shall be a
nation again." His boys' future is in danger of being
submerged in dreams of Poland's future. He rouses
himself to turn to Marcin.

Marcin has no opinion ; and when pressed for one,
looks as if he would like to cry, if it were not too
much trouble.

And Lucyan ? Will he be tinker, tailor, soldier,
sailor, rich man, poor man, apothecary, or thief ? "
But Bogumil is not thinking of Lucyan; he is looking
at Kazimir, and picturing that round boy-face under
a tatartka, and that strong young arm working the
salvation of his country.

No one hears Lucyan's answer, as he says to
himself —

I am going to be a rich man."

THE CARDS ARE DEALT.

Whence art thou ? what canst thou be ?
Exquisite creature, fashioned so fairly ! "

—Lord Lytton.

A soldier, a do-nothing, and a rich man. The two
first of these prophecies have come true ; the third
shows no signs as yet of coming true.

It was in the year 1858, just about fifteen years
after that summer or winter's evening, whichever it
had been, on which the three brothers had played that
game at cards, that Kazimir Bielinski found himself,
one November afternoon, travelling homewards from
his Tyrolese garrison, in answer to a hurried summons
which had reached him.

The home to which Kazimir is hurrying is not that
large and cheerless mansion with the drearily magnificent
state-room and the stiff and frigid furniture.
Some years ago that last and largest of the Bielinski
estates has been sold, and the family is now living on

Madame Bielinska's personal estate, a country place
of the name of Wowasulka.

Madame Bielinska's time for action has come. Until
Bogumil had gambled away his last florin, she had
been in the background. When Bogumil for the last
time rose from the card-table, and this time a ruined
man, then she stepped forward and took the reins into
her hands. From that moment her husband was dependent
on her for the very bread he ate.

When Bogumil had risen from the card-table a
ruined man, his blood was all burning with the excitement
of the last ten minutes. He did not fly into
a passion — it was never at cards that he lost his
temper, his passions were spent on smaller matters —
but the chances of those last ten minutes had been so
strange, — good fortune had been so nearly weighing
down the scale on his side, only to make it fly up
again with such cruel irony, — that Bogumil felt every
single pulse throb in the moment of revulsion. He
was blind with excitement. He had staked his last
farthing against another man's estate ; he had played
for it and won it.

Double or quits," said his adversary. " My two
remaining estates against all you hold."

Stop ! " said his friends, holding their hands over
his cards. " Take luck when you get it ; you are not
bound to play again."

If he asks for his revenge I shall give it," said
Bielinski, haughtily. "I am at your service." He
bent his head to his adversary with the perfection
of old-world courtesy.

A few seconds of breathless silence, a few pieces of
pasteboard thrown down on the table, and then Bogu-
mil Bielinski rose to his feet knowing that in the
whole wide world there was not a farthing he could
call his own.

He did a very foolish thing then. His chief sensation
at that moment was burning heat ; his sole longing
was for cold. He must have something icy, something
to check the mad pace at which the blood was
racing through his veins. His shower-bath had been
his firm friend for years ; he had recourse to it again.
But his deadliest enemy could not have done him
more harm than did this once faithful ally now. An
instant stroke of paralysis deprived him of consciousness
at the moment, and of the use of his left arm for
life.

From the time that he recovered he was a changed
man. The feverish interest which had bound him to
life was gone. Hitherto pleasure-seeking and sociable,
beloved even by those who blamed his faults, he became
all at once a hermit, a morbid recluse. He
could not abide the sight of a card ; he shunned with
horror the faces of all his old friends. No syllable of

complaint passed his lips ; hardly could he be got to
accept the necessaries of life which he now owed to
his wife alone.

Towards Wowasulka then it was that Kazirnir was
hurrying. The summons had not been unexpected ;
for he had heard of his mother's severe illness, the
violent attack of typhus from which she had seemed
to recover, only to fall into a decline, which could end
but one way. Therefore the letter which he received
from his aunt, Eobertine Bielinska, grieved him more
than it surprised him. It puzzled him also ; for there
was a haziness about the terms of the letter which
left him in considerable doubt as to the real facts cf
the case.

My dear Nephew, — I take up my pen to prepare
your mind for the painful changes which await you in
the bosom of your family. You have, I regret to say,
been made acquainted with the fact of your mother's
illness (although I always considered it an unnecessary
disclosure) ; but you cannot possibly form a clear conjecture
as to the real situation in its entirety. It is so
very distressing to have these circumstances discussed
outside the family circle, and committing anything to
paper is always such a risk. In my opinion your
presence here is very undesirable, as every additional
face, voice, and step, only tends to agitate and weaken

your mother. But she foolishly persists in wishing to
see you again, and, I fear, she must be humoured,
especially in her present deplorable state, which in
many ways reminds me of that of my late sister (respectively
your late aunt) Eudolfine.

I should not refer to this fact if I had not been
aware that you knew it already, and as an additional
reason for never mentioning her name to anybody.

"You will be sure, I trust, to burn this letter as
soon as you have read it, and not to let any one know
from whom it is."

The letter was wrapped in a double fold of white
paper, sealed several times, registered, and marked,
with directions that the seals were on no account to
be broken by any one but the person addressed.

Kazimir's perplexity will be understood when it is
explained that his late aunt Eudolfine suffered not
only from derangement of health, but also from a
slight derangement of mind. Had his mother's mental
powers given way ? On the outside of the envelope
Kazimir had discovered a few lines in his youngest
brother's handwriting. The purport of Lucyan's message
was strenuous advice not to let himself be disturbed
by anything that might have been said in his
aunt's letter; that his coming was not urgent; and that,
should there be any difficulty about getting leave of
vol. I. b

absence, he, Lucyau, would undertake to explain this
to the family.

Fortunately for aunt Kobertine's peace, she had
remained serenely unconscious of this indiscreet
communication, thus openly displayed to the light
of day.

But Kazimir had not availed himself of Lucyan's
offer. Not only was his alarm aroused, but his conscience
was pricked. It was some years now since a
sort of coolness had arisen between mother and son,
on the subject of Kazimir's profession. Madame
Bielinska, having at length realised that there were
no immediate hopes of a new Polish kingdom, discovered
that her eldest son, instead of learning to bea
Polish hero, was simply serving the Emperor ox
Austria, like any other officer. She had immediately
written to Kazimir, announcing that there was no
need for his continuing in the army; but, to her
absolute amazement, was answered by a flat refusal
to quit the service, coupled with a good deal of what
she put down as boyish enthusiasm regarding his
profession.

She had been too much hurt to refer to the subject
since ; and Kazimir, hearing of her danger, felt a pang
of remorse, and having with some difficulty obtained
leave of absence for the whole winter, had bidden
farewell to his comrades in November.

You will have to be back before your term," they
said to him at parting. " We shall be on our way to
Italy in March."

I shall be back whenever I am wanted," said Kashmir
; " don't go and cut up the Italians without me."

The last part of this long journey was the most
wearisome ; for here the railway ceased, and Kazimir
was boxed up in a huge, lumbering construction, byname
a hired carriage, but by nature an ark on four
w T heels. Never had its Hebrew possessor touched it
with a renovating hand; cushions, doors, windows,
and hinges had been left to take the chances of life,
just as they came.

Under ordinary circumstances the drive should
have lasted four hours, but the circumstances which
attended this drive of Kazimir's were not ordinary,
and the drive itself was therefore much longer.

The first hour was comparatively bearable, the
second hour he began to find irksome. Kazimir
changed his position fifty times in hopes of dodging
the rain-drops which trickled in plentifully, for it had
drizzled continually since the moment he had left the
railway. In tugging at one of the cushions, out flew
a cloud of tiny moths, for the first time disturbed in
their mouldy seclusion. Half suffocated, Kazimir had
quick recourse to the window, but the handle gave way
at the first pull. It was no use calling to the driver,

for every single part of the carriage was rattling
against the other, drowning even the monotonous
trot-trot of the gaunt long-legged screws, innocent of
the smallest attempt at grooming.

The third hour was wellnigh unendurable. They
were jolting over ruts and stones, in and out of holes
and puddles, with that large-minded disregard to
horses' legs and travellers' bones which characterises
the Polish coachman. The continued jingling of the
dirty panes was not to be borne any longer. One
more vigorous attack on the window, and now Kashmir
could breathe fresh air ; but the driver glanced
round in dismay, for the glass had flown into pieces,
scattered along the mud.

It was a day late in November, and the first hint of
dusk had begun to overshadow the bare brown fields,
which lay side by side in long strips, curving over the
swell of hillocks, and sinking down into the little
hollows of the undulating country. They passed by a
village — a double row of thickly thatched mud-huts,
with minute square windows. The women were at
work stacking dead leaves and straw along their house-fronts
as a shield against the coming cold. Pigs
wallowed in the mire at the door-steps, and troops of
shrieking geese, driven by children with bleached
yellow hair, flew before the big carriage as it splashed
heavily up the road.

There had been some woodcutters on a gigantic
scale somewhere in the neighbourhood, for they overtook
many peasant - carts laden with newly felled
trunks.

The landscape was wintry and waste, but no snow
had yet fallen. It must fall soon, thought Kazimir,
as he leant back wearily. His heart was heavy with
the thought of what awaited him at home. He had
not seen his mother for two years ; would she be
much changed ? And his father . . . and Lucyan
. . how cold it was ! . . . Kazimir suddenly
opened his eyes from a sound sleep to the consciousness
that the splashing and rattling had ceased, and
that the carriage was standing stock-still.

At home already ? He put his head out by the
broken pane. How sharp the air was ! The rain had
ceased, but it was freezing hard, and it was almost
dark.

No, this was not home ; it was some distance from
home still. This was the foot of a steep hill, and the
edge of the great forest which ran as far as Wowa-
sulla, and over the country for many miles.

What exactly was the matter did not immediately
become evident ; but that something must be the
matter was obvious from the confusion of voices on
all sides. The two gaunt horses stood patiently rubbing
their noses against each other, abandoned by the

driver, who, as Kazimir now perceived, was exchanging
violent language with half-a-dozen peasants at some
little distance. There was a peasant-cart without
horses, and heavily laden with wood, hard by the
carriage. There was another behind and another in
front, and more further on; while one half-way up
the hill struggled slowly onwards, amidst the shouts,
and oaths, and wild gesticulations of the peasants ;
and from yet higher up, round the bend of the road,
more shouts came ringing down from the black forest
beyond.

What is the matter ? " asked Kazimir ; but he
asked it of the air alone.

It was no use staying boxed up in this ark, and in
another minute he was out of it.

The scene was unlighted, save for a solitary yellow
glimmer from the hole which served as entrance to a
sort of earth-cellar, a low hovel cut in the bank at one
side. The Jew who spent his life there, serving out
spirits to the woodcutters and drivers who passed that
way, was now moving about from group to group, a
noiseless black figure ; quietly making the most of the
occasion, and eloquently persuading the not unwilling
listeners that an unlimited consumption of wodki was
the first and foremost step towards getting out of their
present difficulty. The present difficulty was a serious
one. Upon the rain of the afternoon had succeeded a

sudden frost ; the hillside was like glass. It was a
bad hill at the best of times, steeper than an' in that
part of the country ; but now it was all they could do
to get their carts up one by one, dragged by four, or
sometimes six horses. Of course this could not be
done peacefully. Each man would have his cart
drawn first, and there were bargaining and loud-voiced
quarrels — and the wild-looking peasants, with
their matted black elf-locks framing their toil-worn
faces, and their long sheepskin coats hanging down to
their heels, talked fast and cursed fiercely ; and standing
in the light of the Jew's hut, tossed off their
wodki and fell to cursing more fiercely still.

No sooner had Kazimir realised the emergency than
he saw that out of it there was only one way, and that
lay through his purse. These two long-legged horses
could never, unaided, drag this ponderous vehicle up
that hill. It was beginning to snow now, to enhance
the situation. The very first snow-flakes of the winter
were floating down through the air. Have not the
first snow-flakes, like the first flowers of the season, a
special and individual charm about them ?

But Kazimir just now was callous to this charm.

Which of you wants a florin ? " he called out
loud, holding up his purse on high.

There were shouts and a general movement. Some
horses appeared with magical rapidity in front of the

carriage, and then the quarrelling began again worse
than before. Those who had missed the chance swore
at those who had not, and drank more wddki to makeup
for it. Then, amidst a great cracking of whips and
vociferous shouts, the lumbering carriage began slowly
to move upwards.

''He, Hajta — he, Wisba!" shouted the wild drivers,
as they ran alongside ; and the little horses strained
every nerve, and pulled on bravely, making each yard
with pain. Kazimir was expending his strength behind,
supporting the carriage to the best of his power.

He, Hajta — he " the shout broke off, and the

carriage stood still so suddenly that Kazimir was
nearly thrown over.

What is the matter now ? " he asked, emerging
from the back.

There was an obstacle in front blocking the passage-not
a trunk-laden peasant cart, but a carriage, less
large and less clumsy than his own conveyance. It
was at a total standstill, and surrounded by a circle of
voluble peasants.

"Fellow-sufferers," thought Kazimir, — and he approached
with some curiosity, ready to offer whatever
help might be in his power.

From the inside of the carriage there was issuing
the sound of what seemed to Kazimir an unlimited
number of female voices, far more than the size of

the vehicle could explain. There were tones of supplication,
of terror, of indignation, of querulous retort,
all mingled inextricably. At any rate, it was clear
that the occupants of the carriage, whoever and however
numerous they might be, were sorely in need of
some masculine guidance. Kazimir pushed out his
elbows, made his way through the circle, and stood
beside the carriage-door.

Can I be of any service ? " he asked, through the
chink of window, which was all that was opened.

The voices all ceased simultaneously, and there was
something like a start, and the very faint beginning of
a shriek, speedily suffocated. The close vicinity of an
educated voice speaking thus suddenly out of the
darkness, in sharp contrast to the unmodulated organs
of the other spectators, might well be startling.

The pause was for no more than an instant. Polish
etiquette fought a quick, sharp battle, versus the
unprotected female instinct, and victory declared on
Nature's side. Perhaps, after all, it might not be positively
incorrect to let their lives be saved by an unknown
gentleman.

The voices all began to talk again. The barbarians
refused to take them up the hill ; they had had to beg
for the florin from the Jew almost on their knees ; and
they could not have guessed about the snow ; and how
could they be asked to walk in thin shoes ? and the

swearing was so dreadful. They paused aud began anew
in the next breath : would he ask them to stop their
dreadful language ; and they were quite sure they were
going to be killed in the forest, and perhaps get their
feet wet in the snow.

If the ladies would be so very kind as to speak one
at a time," observed Kazimir, deferentially, " I think
I could be of more use."

Then at last one voice spoke alone. They were on
their way home; owing to some unfortunate chance
they had only two horses instead of four, and two horses
could not get the carriage up the hill : the peasants
would not lend their horses without money, and owing
to another unfortunate chance they had no money with
them. The Jew had lent them a florin under protest ;
and now that they were half-way up, those wretches had
stopped and refused to move a step without another
florin. They were unharnessing their horses already,
and the Jew would certainly not lend another florin.

No need, either," said Kazimir, with great indignation.
This was a tolerably composed account, and
being in possession of the facts, he proceeded to action.

Back there ! " he shouted, as he stepped away
from the carriage. " Leave your horses where they
are," to the fellow who was sullenly loosening the
coarse rope-harness.

Blockheads every one of you ! Gatgan eden

% drugs " (which might be translated as indicating ina
general way that the persons addressed are destined
to the gallows). An immediate transformation took
place. That voice raised in indignation vibrated
through the dark. Instantly the men around ceased
their wrangling, and fell back in attitudes of the most
servile humility. The tone of Kazimir's voice, the
gesture which accompanied it, and the glimpse of
his face which they could catch through the darkness,
told them that this was one of that class before which
they were wont to cower like frightened dogs. By
the unanimous silence which fell on the circle, they
recognised his right to rule them. Confronted by
unprotected women, they had dared to be exacting
and merciless ; at the sight of a man, willing and
able to enforce his rights, they shrank back outwardly,
into what they were at heart, abject serfs,
the slaves of their master's will.

The spirit-selling Jew, down at the bottom of the
hill, hearing that loud impatient voice in the wood,
thought it wiser to slink back into his low mud-hovel
in the bank.

Kazimir approached the carriage again.

In the first place, I must ask you to let down the
window entirely."

There was something murmured about " cold air ; "
but his demand was complied with.

Now I am afraid T must ask you to get out of the
carriage."

Impossible ! "

Our shoes are too thin."

Our dresses are too long."

It is snowing."

It was indeed snowing. Thickly and silently the
flakes, like great, soft, white moths in the darkness,
were hovering leisurely through the air. They clung
to Kazimir's hair, and stuck in his eyelashes blindingly.
They had begun to fill the broad ditch by the
side of the road, and they had put a white cover on
the carriage-roof, and a white rim on the wood-logs in
the carts.

It is the only chance of getting up the hill," said
Kaziruir, commanding his impatience.

A little more hysterical parley, and then, very
reluctantly, the door was allowed to be opened. There
was a great rustling of silks and pushing aside of
rugs, before some one, with satin-clad feet, stepped
daintily and fearfully out.

One, two, three," Kazimir counted, and peered
into the carriage for more. Three females were
hardly enough to account for that Tower-of-Babel sort
of sound which had assailed his ears. It was rather
disappointing.

Now, move on in front!" called out Kazimir to the

peasants, as be closed the carriage-door, " gatgan that
you are ! " and something followed about beating them
all within an inch of their lives, if they were not at
the top of the hill in much less than no time. It
acted like a charm. The grim-faced peasants relaxed
almost into a smile, cheered by the familiar language.
Vigorous abuse and violent threats are the surest and
safest means of earning the love and respect of Polish
peasantry. That amiable smooth-tongued address,
which your English butler expects as confidently ashe
expects his daily beer, will here make you into an
object of contempt and pity.

lie, Hajta — he, Vista ! " Whips cracked, harness
rattled, wheels creaked, and woodwork groaned ; but
they are going up fast now, cheered on by the elated
bystanders.

Kazimir turned back to the three figures that stood
shivering on the edge of the road.

One of them was short and stout, and unmistakably
an attendant. Two of them were tall, and as unmistakably
ladies. All three were clothed in long, shapeless,
fur-lined cloaks ; no less disfiguring in the case of
the attendant than of the two ladies, — differing only
in the distinction that lies between silk and wool, —
blue fox and vulgar rabbit. All three travellers wore
hoods, which covered their hair and shaded their
faces.

Will either of the ladies take my arm ? " asked
Kazimir, looking from one figure to the other. But
even before he had completed his offer, his arm was
seized convulsively by a hand. That hand, encased
in pale kid, was narrow and delicate ; but there was
the strength of a sudden fright in its clutch, while
the flounced silk train dropped unheeded to the
ground.

Oh, look ! what is that in the ditch ? " gasped a
voice beside him, and the other delicately gloved
hand pointed to a long formless object in the roadside
ditch. The object was only an unwise peasant, who,
having listened too willingly to the loving voice of the
vjoclki dispenser, had rolled over into this ready-made
resting-place, and was sleeping the sleep of the justin
happy unconsciousness that his cart was at the
bottom of the hill, and his horses helping other people's
carts to the top, while his whip has been stolen
by a sober and sharp-witted fellow-creature.

"Only a drunken man," said Kazimir, reassuringly;
and he turned to the second figure with an offer of his
second arm, trying to make the most of himself for
the occasion. The second figure seemed to be in possession
of a little more self-command ; for, though
visibly nervous, the offer was declined with a shade of
stiffness, which had to do service for composure of
manner. The third figure, that of the dumpy attendant,

marched along in silence, rustling her garments
ostentatiously as they began slowly to mount the hill.
Kazimir was between the two tall figures. That slender
hand had not changed its position on his arm.
The satin-clad feet were moving charily along over the
broken ground.

My poor feet ! " sighed the owner, looking down
at them compassionately; "to have to go up this hill
after dancing all last night ! "

Those details can hardly interest this gentleman,"
said the voice at Kazimir's other side, with a little
asperity.

Kazimir took an instant prejudice against the owner
of that other voice. He did not feel at all sure that
those details would not have interested him very much.

I know I shall be ill tomorrow," murmured the
other.

He could not see their faces ; he could only distinguish
them by their voices. One was an ordinary
woman's voice, with just now a touch of temper in it.
Respecting the other, Kazimir could not make up his
mind whether it tinkled through the darkness like a
crystal bell, or whether its sound was more to be compared
to the music of a silver flute.

The flute was silent now — chilled by a sharp reprimand
; or perhaps the steep hillside, growing steeper
every moment, called for all the breath she had. She

began to pant a little, and now and then glanced fearfully
into 'the dense shadows.

The great dead forest stretched up the hill from this
point and thence for many miles. Broad trunks stood
in shadowy array, dying off into impenetrable blackness.
The carriage had got round the turn of the
road and there were no more carts passing just then.
The cries of the peasants reached them now only in
broken snatches.

But another sound was beginning around them.
The topmost branches of the trees shivered first ; then
the rustling sound crept downwards and shook the
bare boughs out of their lethargy. They groaned as
they yielded, and creaked as they swept upwards
again ; the wintry skeletons shuddered first, and then
they rattled their dead limbs noisily. Afar in the
forest-depths the trees were moaning ; and here close
at hand the flakes were begining to whirl wildly.

That sound — it must be wolves ! " gasped the voice
by Kazimir's side.

She was struggling for breath against the quickly
rising wind, and with one hand she was righting to
keep the hood on her head. The wind would have
its way. The hood slipped back ; and Kazimir, looking,
could just see a pale face, and a pair of frightened
blue eyes gazing at him through the falling snow.

11 It is only the wind in the trees," said the other

voice, trying in vain to sound steady amidst the
choking gusts. " How can you be — so — fool — wish ? "

The fierce air carried away the end of the word, and
the speaker succumbing, abandoned her flapping train
and leant upon Kazimir's second arm.

On all sides the dead trees were tossing their dried
arms high. The white moths have gone mad ; they
have taken wing wildly, and fly hither and thither,
helplessly huddled in troops ; or chase each other with
lightning speed, round and round the black tree-trunks.
Everywhere the wind is undoing the snow's
work. From off the ground it catches the freshly
fallen flakes, and whirls them in powder down the
hill. Clouds and columns are rushing past: visible
for an instant, and very palpable, as they shower over
the travellers, to disappear next moment in the darkness
beyond.

To Kazimir's right, there was a sound of hysterical
sobbing; and the weight on each side grew heavier.
"It needs but the attendant to finish me," he thought,
as with an effort he succeeded in throwing open his
heavy fur travelling-cloak at the neck. Light-blue
cloth and gold hussar-cording gleamed in the uncertain
light. It produced a curious effect ; for there
were two distinct starts, and both the hands perceptibly
relaxed their grasp.

An Austrian officer ! " thought both ladies with
vol. I. c

terror. An Austrian officer had dragged them up a
hill in the dark. Horrible thought!

But just then there was a slip and a shriek. The
figure to Kazimir's right staggered, and but for his arm
would have fallen. For an instant she stood clinging
to him, while the wild wind showered the snow-flakes
right over her. Again that vision of blue eyes, and
that half-seen glimpse of an oval face.

She gasped out faintly that she thought she must
die (like the far-off echo of an aeolian harp, Kazimir
found ; for the rude wind caught each word from her
lips and carried it off on its wings) ; but the second
voice faltered a scarcely more audible, though unquestionably
chilling reply, and the aeolian harp spoke no
more.

How harsh that second voice was ! What a want
of pity she showed to her poor delicate sister ! thought
Kazimir, as with a final effort they stood at last panting
on the hill-top beside the carriage.

He knew that he had done his duty, and that all
that remained was to put his charges safely in the
carriage. Both ladies were busied with the arrangement
of their hoods and trains ; while the maid, with
an apoplectic flush on her face, was pulling about the
furs in the carriage.

I hope that the ladies will not have caught cold,"
said Kazimir, earnestly. He belonged to that class of

men who believe that no women ever dress warmly
enough, and that they should be in a continual state
of changing their shoes and stockings, if they are to
keep in health.

"I trust not," replied the lady with the ordinary
voice, making him a demure curtsey. Kazimir was
not conscious of having expected much thanks for his
service, but he was conscious of feeling chilled now.
He turned towards the other. " You will be sure to
put on dry shoes," he said with greater earnestness,
looking down at the soaked black satin slippers, half
buried in the snow. What was this ? another curtsey,
quite as graceful as any curtsey ever executed on a
marquette floor, but quite as demure as the first.

M Me resentments, Monsieur ! " From what a
height of icy pinnacles the silvery voice sounded
down !

The dangers were passed, the hill was surmounted.
Etiquette now recovered that upper hand which Nature
for a brief space had unjustly usurped. The
hands which two minutes ago had clung to him so
convulsively, would hardly touch the tips of his fingers
in mounting the carriage-step. The door was
closed ; the furs were put to rights ; in another minute
they would be gone. An impulse of invincible curiosity
seized upon Kazimir. "I hope your drive is
not a long one," he said, with his hand on the door.

Thank you ; it is rather long' replied the ordinary
woman's voice. " Will you kindly tell the coachman
to drive on ? "

May I hope to meet the ladies again ? " said Kashmir,
desperately.

No answer ; only a frigid and shadowy inclination
of both heads.

You have not got rugs enough ; perhaps my

fur " making a movement towards tearing his

big cloak off.

Oh no, thank you ! " Even in the dark the start
could be seen, with which the two ladies recoiled before
this indelicate offer.

Can I do nothing ? " said the baffled man ; but
already they were passing away. The horses, delighted
at having level ground under their feet,
plunged off into the dark. His last glimpse w r as of
two figures leaning back exhausted, and the last words
he heard were from the apoplectic maid, apparently
resigning her situation. " I am not accustomed to
this, Panii Xenia ! " reached Kazimir's ears as they
drove off.

He was alone in the dark and the snow ; his own
conveyance was half-way down the hill. Just now
the fury of the storm was lulled for a little. Very
furtively the falling flakes began their work again ;
whitening over each little twig, and filling each tree-hollow

with soft powder which the next gust would
scatter away.

Kazimir reflected upon the expediency of thrashing
somebody, for he felt very much inclined to play clubs
just now. Should he thrash the Jew at the bottom of
the hill, who had been so chary of the loan of his
dirty paper florin? But that would entail another
ascent of the hill. Perhaps some of those wrangling
peasants, whose guilt was certainly greater ? Which
peasant ? He would need to thrash half-a-dozen at
least, in order to make sure that he had thrashed the
right one. How infamously they had behaved to
those two unfortunate ladies — to that delicate, timid
girl ! even the elder sister had been wanting in tenderness.
Xenia ! such a harsh, uncompromising
name, exactly suitable to an unamiable elder sister !
He roused himself just in time to escape being runover
by his own lumbering conveyance. Here was
the carriage at the top of the hill, and now there was
no more time to thrash anybody.

It was only when the ark on four wheels had carried
him on some hundred yards that another thought
struck Kazimir. It was a pity, after all, that he had
not "one down the hill to thrash the Jew ; not so
much from a sense of the justice of the castigation ;
but because the man to be chastised might have given
him some clue to the identity of these sisters.

Then, as an afterthought, came the reflection : the
man thus castigated might not be inclined to supply
information of any kind.

At any rate, it was too late now. The chance for
to-day was past: tomorrow, perhaps, might bring
another.

Chapter II.

A NON-PLAYER.

. . . . Life went a-Maying
With nature, hope, and poesy,
When I was young.

When I was young ! Ah, woeful when !
Ah, for the change 'twixt now and then ! "

Coleridge.

When Kazimir readied home, it was too late to see
either his mother or father that night. He was put into
a large square room, heated to suffocation, and told to
take his rest in a bed covered with the finest of linen,
and the most costly of satin quilts. In the morning
he was given a minute basin of solid silver, placed
upon a wooden chair as washhand-stand ; he was, in
fact, regarded as a guest, and as such treated with
that profusion of luxuries and absence of necessaries
which is never failing in a Polish house. Kazimir
had to confess that a long estrangement from his
native soil had made him degenerate to no small extent.
So far from being a narrow-minded man, he

was accustomed to take broad, in fact exceptionally
broad, views of life ; but he now became speedily
aware that so trivial a detail as the want of a looking-glass
was a nuisance, and that the absence of soap
and towels disturbed his mind considerably. He
looked round in despair ; the splendid walnut wardrobe
seemed to smile at him ironically, and to say,
Try me ! " He could see his face almost in the
shining surface; but having tried the wardrobe, he
sank down discouraged into a chair of old tapestry
that would have delighted the heart of an antiquary.
"Why don't I ring?" he said, impatiently; but the
answer was obvious, for there was nothing wherewith
to ring. He put his head out of the door, and was
about to indulge in a resounding call, when the
thought of his mother checked him. There, at the
far end of the passage, a small figure was visible — a
little barefooted girl biting a crust of bread. A stray
beggar devouring a charitably given morsel, she would
have been taken for anywhere else ; but Kazimir was
still familiar enough with the ways of his country to
know that this must be what in England we call a
housemaid, and that she was taking her breakfast in
the orthodox fashion. A pantomime of beckoning
resulted in the ten-year-old housemaid taking to her
heels in dismay. Hope being quenched on that side,
Kazimir had recourse to the other. He knocked at

the door which he knew to be that of his brother
Marcin, and he knocked loudly, for his spirit was
beginning to chafe.

The sound of gentle snoring broke off at Kazimir's
first knock, but there was no invitation to enter. He
knocked again, and hearing only a prolonged yawn,
entered uninvited. Marcin contemplated him with
sleepy blinking eyes from out of his pillow depths.
May I ask what you have been doing to my door ? "
he inquired, lazily.

I wanted to come in. I need soap, and a looking-glass,
and towels."

I daresay ; but what did you make that noise for ? "

I was knocking at your door. Why did you not
answer ? "

What was I to say ? " yawned Marcin.

Why, ' come in,' of course. Do you never knock
at people's doors ? "

Never ! What a strange idea ! Life is a great
deal too short for that sort of thing." Marcin looked
languidly amused, then closed his eyes again.

I want towels, and a looking-glass, and soap,"
began Kazimir again hastily, for fear of his brother
relapsing into slumber.

I know there was some soap in the house a week
ago," said Marcin, drowsily. " You can have it if you
like, but I think it is done. Nobody has been to

Lwow lately. Aunt Kobertine had it last ; go to her
room."

Where is her room ? "

At the other side of my father's."

How can I get to it, then ? "

You can't get to it," said Marcin, sweetly.

n Do you mean to say that nobody else in the house
has got soap ? " asked Kazimir, aghast.

Oh yes, Lucyan has got soap," murmured Marcin,
in a muffled voice ; " white rose soap, and new-mown
violet scent, and pate aux amends du printemps.
Kazimir ? "

Yes ? " Kazimir turned at the door.

u Don't make that noise at Lucyan's door ; what do
you call it ? Knocking the door ? "

Am I to go in without knocking ? "

Certainly ; when you are at Some you must howl
with the Romans."

What on earth do you mean ? " asked Kazimir,
bewildered at this novel mixture of proverbs.

"Perhaps I mean the wolves," said Marcin.
"Kazimir?"

What next ? Am I never to get shaved to-day ? "

u Don't go to Lucyan at all."

Why not ? "

"He is horse in the manger, don't you know?
Never lends anything to anybody."

By hook or by crook Kazimir got shaved, and then
turned his attention to the view outside.

The world had undergone a wonderful transformation
since yesterday, when it had lain dull and
brown, waiting for its winter cloak. The cloak had
fallen on it now, and covered its nakedness; but it
was a cloak of strangely uneven texture. All night
long the wind had fiercely lashed the innocent snow
with its merciless whips ; it had driven white mounds
up against the house ; it had piled soft dazzling
cushions on the window-sills, darkening the panes at
intervals. The trees here and there were girt with
deep white. The rose-bushes in the garden, which
were Lucyan's special pride and treasures, and which
he himself had wrapped in their winter garb of straw,
stood waist-deep in snow. Nature had been at work
with a lavish but an unequal hand. She had smothered
the garden benches in snow so deep, that their outline
could but dimly be discerned, like overgrown
grave-mounds; and again the capricious wind had
laid bare the unsightly row of dead asters, in all their
desolation of withered leaves and bleached stalks.
Further off, where the ground, growing bare and
rocky, sloped up gradually from the garden to the
forest-edge, it was all a heavy and unbroken mass of
white. Snow and wind had suspended their work ;
but the dull white sky was brooding more changes.

"When can I see my mother?" asked Kazimir,
after breakfast.

There was no one in the room but his youngest
brother, and at the question, Lucyan looked up from
a seedsman's catalogue he was studying ; for it must
be understood that, although Lucyan was a lawyer in
embryo, he was at heart a gardener.

It is scarcely likely that aunt Kobertine will let
you see her to-day," he answered. " My mother is
very easily agitated."

Kazimir gazed out of the window and reflected.
The veiled hints in his aunt Kobertine' s letter, did
they really hide a real mystery ? His mother had always
been remarkable for her clear judgment ; was
it possible that she had lost her reason with her
health ?

My aunt's letter gave me a great fright," said
Kazimir, turning from the window. " Surely you do
not think that there is anything wrong with my
mother, — beyond her health, I mean ? "

Lucyan looked up inquiringly.

I mean mentally," completed Kazimir, with an
effort.

Lucyan paused for a minute, with his eyes fixed on
his brother's, and the point of his pencil keeping the
place of Zinnia elegant in the catalogue.

I do not exactly like to say that she is irresponsible

for her actions," he answered slowly ; " but there
certainly are some subjects on which she is very excitable
— strangely excitable."

Have you seen my mother to-day ? " asked Kashmir,
suddenly.

Lucyan looked up again from his catalogue without
betraying any impatience.

Yes, of course I have seen her. I read aloud to
her every day."

And why am I to be kept out of her room if you
are allowed in V

The question was so direct that Lucyan, before
answering, rose from his chair and took a turn in the
room. At the same time, he drew a little ivory comb
from his pocket, and pensively passed it through his
black hair, winch grew up thick and straight from his
low broad forehead. This was a trick of his, a mere
mechanical habit, into which he had fallen, no one
knew how. His comb was to him a talisman, what to
a coquettish woman is her fan, or to a bandmaster his
baton. Perhaps the mesmeric contact of the ivory
roused and assisted thought.

His face was in character the same as it had been
at eight years old ; but though Lucyan was only
twenty-four, the short coal-black beard stamped him
as a man, and by contrast made his skin more colourless.
His eyes moved quickly, and now and then

shone as brightly as though a spark had struck them.
Round his lips there hovered perpetually a faint, a
very faint smile, which was sometimes mirrored in the
eyes, and which was just dimly to be read through the
black moustache.

The faint smile was just now a shade more distinct
than usual, as he paced down the length of the room,
passing the comb through his hair.

Why are you to be kept out of the room if I am
allowed in ? Eh, cher Kazio ; the matter is simple
enough. She is used to see me, and she is not used
to see you. Anything in the shape of a — a what shall
I say ? — a stranger "

A stranger ! " repeated Kazimir.

Well, que voulez - vous ? " with a shrug, which
exactly matched the smile. " You are virtually a
stranger ; and besides " — Lucyan stopped combing
his hair, and threw a glance over his brother's tall
figure — besides, I am not sure that you would know
how to move in a sick-room."

And you know how to move in a sick-room, I
suppose?" said Kazimir, for him almost bitterly.

Lucyan inclined his head. " Yes, I can walk like
a cat when I like." He laughed ; but Kazimir did
not join him.

Come, Kazio," said the younger brother, pocketing
his comb, and laying a delicate white hand on the

elder one's shoulder. " You are not going to turn
sulky, are you? Just be sensible, and consider how
trying to an invalid your resounding martial step and
your cavalry movements would be."

"Why was I sent for?" asked Kazimir, not yet
relenting.

Another very slight shrug of Lucyan's shoulders.
He withdrew his hand from his brother's arm, and
began a minute inspection of his carefully trimmed
nails.

You will remember that I did not send for you."

Kazimir, thinking of the Pes. to his aunt's letter,
remembered that well.

I told you then that your presence here would
do no good. There were none but sentimental
grounds to advance for your coming ; but if it is
any relief to your feelings, of course you are welcome
to stay."

There was a slight air of concession about the
words ; the tone of the master of the house offering
the protection of his roof to a stranger. Since his
mother's illness, Lucy an had been virtually the master
of the house : Marcin was as useless as a six-year-old
child, and Bielinski was now a cipher.

"You look quite out of place in a dull country-house
like this," said Lucyan, still soothingly. " You
are a soldier all over, Kazimir."

Lucyan's eyes rested again on his brother with a
glance of admiration, scarcely mixed with envy.

Nearly a head taller than his younger brother, with
brown hair waving off a high forehead ; brown eyes,
rather long in shape and fall of life ; nothing but a
short moustache shading his well-cut lips, — Kazimir
indeed looked a soldier all over. He was handsome ;
but his was not only the beauty of features, it was
also that of expression and grace. He had in his face
a little of each of the twelve ancestral portraits on the
wall. The dusky knight in armour had given him
that hawk-like sweep of eyelids ; the beauty in cream-coloured
brocade had given him that peculiar sweetness
of mouth which softened the otherwise hard
features ; all the men combined had given him their
nose — a high-bridged, clean-cut nose, with those proud
sensitive nostrils which belong eminently to a wellborn
Polish nose. Kazimir's face was the sort of face
which has gone out of fashion ; for types of feature
go out of fashion as well as types of character. You
do not see it often nowadays, unless upon mouldering
canvas, framed in tarnished gold, and hung upon the
walls of some turreted old castle. Thus may that
grim-visaged old warrior on the white charger have
looked when first he drew the sword with which in
later years he cut down so many of his country's foes.
But though so distinct in feature, it was in expression

a face younger than its years, perhaps almost too
young for its years. The glow of ardent life was upon
it ; but as yet it was a face without a history. That
man, you felt instinctively, had been scathed by no
passion, had looked upon no dreadful sight, had suffered
no violent grief. The face was too unmarked
for that, the glance too serene, the smile too boyish.
According to people's individual views of life, this
would be considered either a merit or a defect.

Never mind, Kazio," Lucyan was saying, " you
will see my mother now and then, no doubt, if aunt
Libertine can be persuaded to let you have ' a little
peep,' as she calls it. But I hardly know how I shall
be able to entertain you in this dull place. After
your horses and soldiers, you could never stand this
life for long.

Kazimir had quite relaxed by this time ; bad
humour was a thing too foreign to his nature to
endure long. He did not even notice the but half-concealed
sneer in his brother's words and tone, which
might have implied that horses and soldiers were
capital toys with which to keep little boys amused.

The result of this conversation was to make Kashmir
wonder why he had been in so great a hurry to
leave his regiment. Nobody seemed to want him.
Lucyan and Marcin were the only members of the
family he had seen as yet. Even aunt Libertine

VOL. I. D

remained invisible ; and it was late in the afternoon
before his father sent for him.

Bogumil had become an old man since his son had
seen him last ; all that careless yet graceful ease,
which had been his charm, was gone. His eyes betrayed
his utter want of interest in the world and in
life itself, — the weary eyes of a man who, having been
used to the excitement of strong stimulants, finds himself
cut off from them, and droops into listless dejection.
With his right hand he held his long Turkish
pipe, sole companion of his self-chosen solitude ; his
left arm hung powerless by his side. Thus for years
past Bogumil had passed his life, too proud to utter
a complaint, too proud to express the most trivial
want ; suffering rather his one consolation — his Turkish
pipe — to hang unused on the wall for days, than
so much as to mention that his tobacco-pouch was
empty. If by any chance his dinner had been forgotten
some day, he would rather have starved than
asked for it.

When shall you see your mother ? " repeated
Bogumil, in answer to his son's complaint. " It is no
use applying to me; I am a cipher in the house,
Kazimir ; understand that once for a^l." He smoked
on in silence for some minutes, then resumed.

When your aunt Eobertine does give you entrance
to the sick-room, your mother's first word to you

will be a persuasion to leave the. army. Are you
prepared for this ? "

Kazimir was quite prepared.

His father paused again — a longer pause this time
while the white rings of tobacco-smoke curled above
his head.

I have no right to give you any advice," he began,
after that pause ; " for I have nothing to leave you in
legacy except the remembrance of my folly. If you
care enough for my advice to ask for it, Kazimir, you
can have it ; if not, I shall never refer to the subject
again."

But I do ask for it, father," cried Kazimir, touched
by the proud reserve of the tone; although in his
innermost mind he registered the firm resolve only to
take that advice if it coincided with his own wish.

Then listen. When I made you into a soldier, I
and others fully believed that Poland would in a few
years be a new kingdom, with a new king and a new
army. That dream of mine is gone — every dream of
mine is gone — ah ! no matter. If I could have foreseen
what was coming, I should not have put you into
the army."

Kazimir started, but he held fast to his resolve.

Now that you are in the army, my advice to you
is to stay in it, whatever "

I will stay in it, father ! " burst in Kazimir rapture

OF ILL

ously, taking his father's wasted hand and kissing it
in a transport of filial gratitude. The advice against
which he had been so resolutely steeling himself a
minute ago was now enthusiastically accepted; and
his mind was pervaded by a satisfactory glow of
virtue — a pleasant feeling of having shown himself
a good and dutiful son.

In Bogumil's world-weary eyes there shone for a
moment a light at sight of this glow of gratitude. It
was like a breath of hillside air — a breeze out of his
own youth, wafted across a long, long waste of years,
out of the time when the world was not the weary
empty place it was now. It is bad to be old : old age
is an evil thing devoid of sweetness ; but old age —
ugly, misery-burdened old age — has one poetry which
belongs to it by rights, and that shines out of the eyes
of our children.

The faces of Marcin and Lucy an had never moved
this thought in Bogumil's soul in the way Kazimir's
face did now.

Remember that I have not tried to persuade you,
Kazimir," said his father. " My vote is powerless.
You owe duty and gratitude to your mother ; you owe
nothing to me."

It was said bitterly yet sadly ; and Kazimir's burst
of rapture melted quickly into pity, — pity at the sight

of this change, at the recollection of his father's once
gay and gracious countenance — and pity also, more
dimly felt, that so much that was noble and great
should have fallen to wreck upon reefs with which
a more commonplace nature would not have been
threatened.

CHAPTER III.

ONE OF THE KNAVES.

Sedes Land hat die Jude die es verdant, "

K. E. Francis.

In the midst of the anxieties and impressions of this
first day, Kazimir's thoughts ran continually on his
adventure in the snow. At the moment, the two
figures had appeared distinct enough from each other ;
now, in recollection, he could not so well separate
their individuality. They had both worn pale kid
gloves. One had had a common voice and the other
an uncommon one ; one had grey eyes and the other
had blue eyes. When he thought of the grey eyes he
remained unmoved ; when he thought of the blue eyes
he thrilled with something more than curiosity. He
had questioned his brothers and father to no purpose.
In the evenings the three brothers sat in their
father's room — the one hour in the day in which
Bogumil allowed intrusion on his hermitage — they
reverted to the subject again.

We know little of any of our neighbours," said
Bogumil, " and I know less than nothing."

The only pair of sisters within reasonable distance
are the Zuminskas," said Lucyan ; " but one of themis
hunchback and the other lame."

That will not do," said Kazimir ; for although a
hunch might conveniently have been concealed under
the monstrous cloak, lameness was not compatible
with reaching the top of that hill.

There is that girl with the box on her ear," put in
Marcin from the sofa.

Box on her ear ? " repeated Kazimir, in interrogative
bewilderment, for he was scarcely used to
Marcin's fashion of conversation. This meeting
with his brothers was almost like making acquaintance
with strangers. They were, in fact, more
strangers to him than his playfellows had been,
and than his comrades were now ; for since at the
age of twelve he had been placed in a military
academy at Vienna, all his visits home had been but
flying ones.

Ask Lucyan to explain ; I can't," said Marcin,
helplessly.

He means Mademoiselle Walenska," explained
Lucyan, with ready civility. " Her mother once at a
ball boxed the ears of a man who had forgotten to
dance an engaged mazur with the daughter."

But if she has no sister she will not do : think of
some one else, Marcin."

Marcin closed his eyes and made the heroic effort
of thinking.

The only other people I know are the three
Merinskas ; won't they do ? "

Is there a pair of blue eyes between them ? " asked
Kazimir, hopefully.

Yes — no ; I fancy their eyes are rather fishy."
Kazimir's face fell. Marcin brightened up. " But I
remember that they once wore yellow gloves ; and —
let me see, I know something else about them — they
have got forty thousand florins each."

Oh no," corrected Lucyan, smiling ; " you mean
that the youngest is forty years old."

Well, I knew it was something about forty," said
Marcin, in languid triumph ; and he sat up almost
straight for a moment, with a conscious and pardonable
feeling of pleasure in finding his memory thus
unusually accurate.

Forty years old ! " sighed Kazimir. That voice
that had followed him into his dreams had not been
twenty. Was the clue never to be supplied ? Were
they mere birds of passage which had crossed his path,
to disappear again without a trace ? Had that meeting
been but an isolated fact, or was it to be the first
link of other things to come ?

Brooding over these thoughts, he fell into silence,
but presently was roused by a request to join in a new
and general subject of interest.

There was a discussion going on about horses. The
Bielinski's last carriage-horses had come to grief quite
lately; and as even a ruined family in Poland cannot
exist without one, if not two pair of horses, the Jewish
factor had come to report upon a pair in the neighbourhood.


There scarcely passed a week in which this factor
was not to be seen at "VYowasulka ; for was he not
one of that nation who are at once the slaves and the
masters of Poland ? Drawing gain out of the indolence
of Polish character, the Jews have, little by little, got
the strings of the whole national life into their hands.
They have crept into the machinery of public life, and
have wound and wormed themselves in behind the
very veil of privacy.

They cannot be kept away or pushed back ; for you
cannot fight with their own weapons: they do not
push, they crawl. Like a network they spread over
the country : a nation of detectives, bound together by
the bond of their religion, and by that national esprit
de corps which will always make a Jew help a Jew,
hold a Jew's secrets inviolate, if necessary conceal a
Jew. They have their own secrets of success, but this
last is not the least. You cannot ignore them, reptiles

as they are ; the best you can do is to reconcile yourself
to them, and that is what every Pole does. He
treats them as the scum of the earth, uses any amount
of violent language towards them, and on occasion
kicks them down-stairs. And next time he wishes to
save himself trouble he sends for his Jew, and the Jew
comes with the same cringing smile, obsequious and
oily - tongued, as though they had parted the best
friends. Whether you want to buy a horse, engage a
cook, sell a piano or a property, or get married in a
hurry, you cannot do without a Jew ; and above all,
if you want money you cannot do without him. He
will tell you all the horses for sale for ten miles
round, and what each is worth ; he can give you the
accurate amount of the fortunes of all the young ladies
of the neighbourhood ; and the ragged wretch, slipshod
and out at elbows, will put at your instant disposal
thousands of florins, which he presses on you
with loquacious and irresistible persistence.

Every family of rank has its own particular factor,
just as much as it has its own coachman; and Aitzig
Majulik was the particular factor of the Bielinski
family.

Aitzig Majulik was a Jew unwashed and garlic-scented.
He was generally called "old Aitzig," and
had always been called so, even before he became old.
No one remembered his ever having been young. When

he was forty, he had looked like fifty ; and now that
he was sixty, he looked like fifty still. Kazimir, who
had not seen him for ten years, thought that Aitzig
must have been standing still, instead of going on with
the time. His nose had the orthodox hook, and his
face was framed in the orthodox corkscrew curls, one
at each side. He had brows so protruding as to throw
his eyes into deep shade ; and he had hands long and
thin and yellow, which might have made a fanciful
person think of claws.

His long gown had turned greenish in hue, from
extreme old age ; a tattered cord was round his waist ;
with one yellow claw he waved about his battered hat,
which, on entering he had removed, leaving visible
a greasy black skull-cap, — with the other he gave furtive
pulls to his corkscrew curls. He had not stopped
talking since he entered. His hungry shining eyes
wandered round the room.

You will never have seen anything to come near
that pair of horses, gracious Pan ! Gottt und die Welt"
cried Aitzig, in his nasal mixture of Polish and German,
" but they are grand horses ! That is what you
will call them when you see them. There is something
about the limbs of those horses, I tell you,
noble gentlemen "

"We shall see about that," interrupted Lucyan,-
but what is the price ? "

No money at all ; a price hardly worth mentioning
; I blush to mention it to you," gabbled Aitzig,
with his shoulders drawn up to his ears, and his ten
ringers spread out like fans. " I will whisper the price
into your gracious ear, for fear that strangers should
overhear this wonderful bargain."

Keep where you are, you garlic-smelling hound ! "
cried Bogumil, with a spark of his old temper, as
the factor was gliding towards his chair to impart
the secret.

Instantly the Jew retreated, cringing in dog-like
humility. " I will whisper it across : seven hundred
florins ! No money at all ! You will drive out with
those horses, and you will say to your friends, ' These
are horses of a thousand florins and they will believe
you ; and you will remember that it was the factor
Aitzig Majulik who got you those horses."

"Hold your chattering tongue," broke in Kashmir,
losing patience. "What is the height of these
paragons ? "

If you ask me what is their height, I will say it
is fifteen-one; but when you look at those horses
you will say that they are twice fifteen-one. Those

horses have got a leg — gracious Pan ! — a leg " and

Aitzig Majulik, whose rhetoric apparently could furnish
no epithet worthy of describing the leg which
those horses had, closed his eyes and smacked his

withered lips with an expression of exquisite appreciation.


Fifteen-one is no height at all," remarked Kazimir.

If you could see those horses lift their legs, noble
gentlemen, you would not say that fifteen-one is no
height. They lift their legs in this manner : " and
Aitzig, having recourse to illustration, began stepping
round the room, with his slippered feet drawn up
alternately to an impossible height.

Where are these horses to be seen ? "

It is only two hours to drive in a sledge," said the
Jew, pausing in his high-bred stepping.

Of course no one will be mad enough to give
seven hundred florins for a pair of carriage-horses'
said Lucyan, quietly. " If the price had been named
at four hundred, the matter might have been considered."
Lucyan knew perfectly well that when the
Jew said seven hundred he meant six, or perhaps less ;
and the Jew was equally aware that Lucyan's four
hundred meant a hundred or so upwards.

Four hundred !" Aitzig Majulik indulged in a sort
of cackling sound — a sickly attempt at a laugh. The
gracious gentlemen were pleased to be merry this
evening, they were only joking with poor old Aitzig.
Four hundred ! He could hardly recover from the
shock. Even when he had said seven hundred, it
had been against his conscience.

Might his body be burnt in deepest hell-fires if the
horses were not worth one thousand florins ! One
thousand ! What was he saying ? One thousand
live hundred should be their price. Might his name
be no longer Aitzig Majulik if those horses were not
grand horses, and if they were not worth one thousand
five hundred florins ! — and so on, and so on ; the poor
wretch went on talking himself hoarse, for the sake of
the couple of florins he would get from either party,
should the bargain be concluded.

Kazimir broke in again, with questions about age
and race.

If one of the gentlemen would drive out himself
to Pan Eogdanovics, he would see with his own
eyes ! "

Eogdanovics," repeated Bielinski. " No, that will
not do. I cannot have any transactions with him'

Why, have you quarrelled with the man, father ? "
asked Kazimir. " Is he your enemy ? "

He was my best friend once," said Bielinski, " and
that is the very reason."

Kazimir had never so realised his father's morbid
dislike to seeing a known face.

Aitzig was wringing his hands and swaying his
body at the thought of the florins escaping him.
Wai, wai ! " he groaned piteously ; but with the persistence
of a bull-dog, — " they are grand horses," I say.

May Aitzig Majulik be buried in a nameless grave if
they are not grand horses ! Aitzig is but a poor old
man who desires to serve the gracious Panowie, and
who works for his bread with his hands; he is not
one of those fortunate among the children of Abraham,
who are blessed with luck, such as is Natal
Taubenkiibel "

"Hold your tongue," interrupted Lucyan, sternly,
for the superior luck of Naftali Taubenkiibel was a
perpetually sore subject with Aitzig, and one on which
he was apt to become overpoweringly loquacious.

But, father," said Kazimir — not out of regard for
the Jew's feelings, but because the prospect of inspecting
a pair of young horses was a congenial one — " you
need not meet your old friend. Let me drive over and
look at them."

Yes, let him drive over and look at them," moaned
the Jew in the background.

"Let him drive over and look at them," echoed
Marcin, worn out with the effort of listening ; " anything
for a quiet life, I say."

Bo£umil resisted no further. Kazimir should drive
over as soon as the road was passable for a sledge. It
might be tomorrow or the next day. Aitzig Majulik,
seeing things in this promising vein, glided from the
room ; and went off to sing the praises of a faultless
cook, to an old lady, five miles distant ; to buy up old

clothes from another, and to offer money at 120 percent
to a young scamp of the neighbourhood. Though
he should get no supper to-night, he will be happy, ashe
chews his garlic, to think that his pains of to-day
must bring him in a few greasy paper florins.

To-morrow, at early dawn, he will find some corner
in a peasant-cart on its way to Lodniki, and he will
assure Eogdanovics that no other factor but Aitzig
Majulik could have procured him such a splendid
price as five hundred and fifty florins for his two raw
under-bred horses.

By the way, Kazimir," said Lucyan, later in the
evening, "why did you not think of asking old
Aitzig for the names of your two fair acquaintances
in the snow ? If they are not mere creations of your
fancy, he is sure to know them'

I did not think of it," said Kazimir, excitedly — and
he left the room in hopes of discovering Aitzig still
lingering about the premises. But Aitzig was faraway
by that time ; having already concluded a satisfactory
bargain with the old lady for her old clothes,
and having received fifty kreutzers for his trouble
in procuring a cook — to say nothing of having been
kicked out of a third house by the indignant father
of the young scamp.

He is gone," said Kazimir, coming back discouraged.

"But," as an idea struck him, "who is that
Eogdanovics who has the horses ? "

Has he daughters besides horses ? you mean,"
completed Lucyan, laughing in his own peculiar
manner. "Yes, I believe he has, but only one."

Are you quite sure ? " asked Kazimir, ruefully.
Have you ever seen her ? "

Never, mon ami; but I am quite sure — only one."

VOL. I.

CHAPTER IV.

TWO OF THE QUEENS.

We were two daughters of one race,
She was the fairest in the face."

Tennyson.

Two girls are talking in their room. A large apartment
littered with evidences of a very feminine
presence ; such things as French fashion-plates, lace
handkerchiefs, several pairs of shoes and stockings,
a fan or two, and a hat which must surely have seen
Paris in its day. The good days of that hat are past
now ; it has been tossed aside, and lies suffocated by
a heavy fur muff, weighing down its once crisp and
curling feather. Here on a chair lies a fan, with its
white ivory bones starting from its pink silk skin ;
its broken pinions, incapable of raising the faintest
breath of air now, droop helpless and dejected. The
delicate white stockings, with cunningly traced silk
clocks, are unimpeachable as to quality, but hardly so
as to conservation and colour. The shoes, which lie ina

miscellaneous heap, satin and kid, amicably blended,
have some of them left muddy marks on the floor;
and though the marks are two days old, they have not
been thought worth removing. In one corner there
lies a soiled primrose glove, turned inside out, and
abandoned by its wearer, as well as by its fellow.

The two girls who are carrying on conversation in
the midst of this picturesque disorder, look perfectly
at home and perfectly in keeping with it. One of
them is sitting before the glass, the other is reclining
on a chaise longue, wrapped in a flowing dressing-gown.

They are very like each other ; from a little distance,
and at certain moments, you might mistake them for
each other. Yet there is a difference between them,
only one difference, but a might' one ; one of them is
plain, and the other is beautiful.

The girl on the sofa has got chestnut-brown hair,
of a peculiarly bright tint. Just now it floats down
unbound, in ruffled waves, with here and there a
thread of ruddier gold, where it catches the light. Her
face is a narrow oval, tenderly tinted, and delicate
almost to transparency, blue veins wandering on the
white temples; a little mouth, red and fresh as a
flower. The blue eyes are large and full of light —
more luminous than deep, more beseeching than commanding.
A perishable hothouse flower she looks,
scarcely suited to this land of ice and snows. And

yet she is a blossom which could have sprung out of
no other but that rugged stem ; she is most distinctly
Polish. The cast of her features proclaims it, as does
also the exquisite finish, if I mays say so, in every
detail of her beauty. She lies with her hands clasped
under her head, and her feet in loose slippers, appearing
from under the pale-coloured dressing-gown, which
falls in clinging folds all down her tall slight figure.
This dressing-gown is of a pale lavender colour, much
streaked and faded, showing the original tints only
where the seams are sprung, which they are both on
shoulders and arms ; very deficient as to buttons and
hooks, the elaborate trimming held to its place sometimes
by nothing more than a weak yielding pin.
Not a becoming dress, certainly ; but it would take
much to disfigure that face and form.

The girl who sits before the glass is attired in a
loose white dressing-jacket and petticoat; both of
which have lost their first, their very first freshness.
She, like the other, has a pale face and brown hair,
and a tall figure. But the paleness here strikes not as
flower-like, but as sallow ; the hair has the shades, but
it has not the bright chestnut lights of the other's ; the
eyes are grey, not blue. What an irony of nature
to make two faces so alike, and so different ! There
is hardly any reason why this one should not be as
beautiful as the other is ; and yet no one has ever

called her as much as comely. A duller tint of the
hair, a shade less crimson in the lips, a harder line
about the chin, a mere suggestion of greater robustness
in the figure, have robbed the elder of that
bewitching ensemble which constitutes the beauty of
the younger.

I do not think it is worth while dressing to-day,"
says the fair wearer of the lilac dressing-gown, yawning
for the third time in five minutes. " Don't you
think so, Vizia? My cough is still so bad." She
breaks off, and burying her face in a silk handkerchief,
coughs a low, subdued little cough, and then
throwing back her head on her arms again, closes
her eyes exhausted.

Your cough is not nearly so bad as you make it
out," says Vizia, from behind the shower of hair which
she is busied in brushing out.

I cannot help it," answers the other meekly.

What is the pleasure of staying on a sofa all day?"
inquires the other a little impatiently.

What is the pleasure of getting off it, I wonder ? "
with another yawn. " There is nothing to do. I have
read through all the feuilletons in the fashion papers,
three times each ; I can't play the piano in that cold
room ; I have got no letters to write, and nobody has
written to me. I should only bore myself to death
all day."

There is only half the day remaining to bore yourself
in, at any rate. It has struck twelve. Don't you
want any dinner, Xenia ? "

"But I had breakfast only two hours ago," says
Xenia, pushing away the tray on the table beside
her, where cold remains of coffee and stale scraps of
bread still linger. " My appetite is quite gone, ever
since that dreadful night in the snow. I wonder who
that officer was who helped us up the hill! Don't
you, Vizia?"

Vizia continued brushing her hair in silence.

How well he spoke Polish ! But what a pity there
was nobody to introduce him to us ! It would have
been so much less awkward, wouldn't it? I hope I
did not pinch his arm too much," continued Xenia,
kicking off her slippers, and crossing her small feet,
one over the other, on the edge of the sofa. " I should
not have done so if I had known that he was an officer;
but then I was so frightened ! "

Xenia, this is ridiculous ! " broke in the elder girl,
turning from the glass. " You have kept harping upon
your hardships and your fears as if you alone had
been the sufferer. Was / not cold? was I not wet
yes, and frightened too, as well as you ? "

Xenia's under lip came out with a decided pout ;
her chin sank down.

How unkind of you, Vizia ! I cannot help it ; I

am not as strong as you." The pouting red lips
quivered, and something glistened for a moment in
the corner of each blue eye. In the next instant the
quickly risen tears were stealing down the folds of
the soiled lilac flannel.

That shade of angry colour which had sprung to
Vizia's cheek melted quickly — that hard look on her
face softened on the instant. The brush was flung on
the table, whence it slipped unnoticed to the floor,
but fell on soft ground luckily, for the folds of a silk
mantle received it in their midst.

Xenia, what a wretch I am ! " She was on her
knees beside the sofa ; with one hand pulling away
the lace handkerchief which Xenia had pressed to her
eyes, with the other stroking the shining chestnut hair
in pitiful tenderness.

Forgive me, my own Xenia — my only, beautiful
Xenia; I cannot see you cry."

The lace handkerchief was removed by this time ;
the blue eyes smiled out through a soft veil of moisture.
Vizia's arms were round Xenia's neck ; the dull
brown hair and the bright brown hair hung together,
mixed for a moment.

Do not mind what I said — forget it, Xenia," whispered
Vizia. " I have not an angel's temper like
yours ! "

Peace was established between smiles and tears.

Xenia lay back again on her sofa, while a sob now
and then still quivered through her frame. Vizia rose
from her knees, hunted for her brush on the table, and
not finding it, took another and returned to her work
of brushing. As she met her own eyes in the glass,
some shade of bitterness came over her again.

Oh yes ! she too had been frightened and cold like
Xenia; — but she was not Xenia. She had no right
to the pity which would be given to the beautiful
Xenia. She was not, in the vulgar sense of the
word, jealous of that frail loveliness, which called
forth homage everywhere — oh no, — she worshipped
the delicate flower too deeply to admit of real envy.
Vizia had never tasted that intoxicating homage ; she
had stood by and seen the incense burned to another,
and she had been used to this from childhood. But
yet there would come moments when her heart rose
in rebellion at this injustice of nature. She would
look in the glass and scan her features, wondering
why she was not beautiful like Xenia. Had she not
the same features, the same figure almost, the same
hair ? She had missed beauty by an inch, by a line,
by a mere shade of colour, and for all her days she
was doomed to the fate of a plain woman. Yes, it
was hard.

Vizia, why are you sighing ? " asked Xenia,
coaxingly.

I am not sighing."

Another silence. Xenia gazed down pensively at
the little pink toe, which peeped impertinently rosy
from the point of her embroidered stocking.

"Vizia?"

Yes."

"Don't you wish that some one would come and
visit us ? "

But the roads are blocked with snow."

They are not blocked any longer. Maria says
it is a beautiful sledge road. Perhaps some one will
come to-day. We have so few visits here."

We had two visits last week," corrected Vizia.

Yes, but they were both old ladies. Don't you
think old ladies are dull?" objected Xenia, looking
down again at the coquettish pink toe, which was
slowly but surely working its way out, to the increasing
destruction of the embroidered stocking. " I
should like somebody more amusing."

But what is the good of their coming, since you
are too ill to leave the sofa ? " laughed Vizia,

I like living in a town so much better," continued
the other, not hearing. " I used to see people there
every day, and here I see nobody; and oh, Vizia,
Pawel says that he heard a wolf howl in the forest
two nights ago. Only fancy, we might have been
eaten by wolves the other night!"

I hardly think so," said Vizia, who, having slipped
into her dress, stood now with her fingers on the
door-handle. I must go now, Xenia, and give out
hasza for the servants, and I have not seen papa
to-day."

And I am to stay alone — all alone 1 "

Listen ; what is that ? " interrupted Vizia, pausing.
There was the faint sound of a tinkle floating towards
them from the white landscape outside.

It is a sledge coming this way," said Vizia, standing
at the window, and rubbing the frozen pane with
her handkerchief. Xenia rose languidly to her elbow,
while they both listened and waited.

Can you see it yet ? "

No, it has not turned the corner ; yes — there it
comes."

A peasant - sledge ? But the bells have such a
good sound."

The tinkle rang out clearly now through the winter
air, louder every instant. Then it lessened, then it
burst upon their ears close at hand ; they could hear
the dull tramp of the horses.

What is it like ? " questioned Xenia.

It is not a peasant-sledge," said Vizia, craning her
neck as she held back the curtain. "There is only
one person in it. I think I see a bonnet."

Another old lady ! " sighed Xenia, sinking back.

"Yes,— no, it is not a bonnet — it is a gentleman.
He is driving straight to the house."

A visitor ! An amusing visitor ! Thank heavens ! "
cried Xenia, springing off the sofa electrified, all the
languor replaced by a childlike eagerness of tone and
mien. " I don't think I am too ill to dress. Where
are my shoes ? — where is my comb ? — where is Maria
to do up my hair ? — where is my new silk dress ? "

Shall I put on my new silk dress, too ? " asked
Vizia, eyeing herself doubtfully in the glass.

Oh yes, let us both put them on ; they look better
together," said Xenia, eagerly, while hunting fora
truant garter among the miscellaneous burdens of
chairs and tables.

No, it did not matter what she put on, concluded
Vizia, turning from the glass. Silk would not make
her prettier to look at than wool.

But now it was Xenia who paused before the
mirror.

Bore ! What a fright I look ! " she exclaimed,
regarding her fair image with an expression of the
most exquisite disgust.

She did not look a fright by any means ; only her
eyes were one degree less bright, and there was a
shade more pink upon her nose than was strictly
becoming.

Vizia, how can I show myself with this cold ? "

I have a cold too."

Yes, but " Perhaps Xenia dimly felt that

there was a difference. A plain woman with a cold
can only be a shade more plain, whereas a beauty
with a cold might just miss being a beauty ; and fora
beauty, who is nothing but a beauty, what darker
fate could there be ?

So, as Vizia, in her plain woollen dress, left the
room, Xenia sank back on her sofa, shedding a few
silent tears on her lavender dressing-gown, at the
thought of this self-imposed imprisonment, and half
wavering in her resolution, as the sound of bustling-footsteps
outside reached her ear.

Chapter V.

AT THE COURT OF THE SPADE King.

There came a youth from Georgia's shore,
A military casque he wore,
With splendid feathers dress'd.

And with him many tales he brought

Of pleasure and of fear.
Such tales as told to any maid,
By such a youth in the green shade,

Were perilous to hear. "

—Wordsworth.

Two days after the interview with Aitzig Majulik,
Kazimir was awoke in the morning by the welcome
intelligence that the road to Lodniki was passable.

All the long hours of the night before last, the wind
had slept, while the snow had come down softly,
patching up deficient places, filling up holes, and
making the whole uneven texture even. Now the
peasant-sledges had cut their way through, the senna
droga, the sledge-road for the winter, was moulded
into shape. A sledge-road with us means a welcome
change from the monotony of wheels, a good excuse

for some gay freak, or an easy opportunity for display.
With the Poles it means something different, — not an
amusement, but almost a necessity. It means distances
cut down to half their length — business and
traffic deprived of half their trouble ; an event expected
with anxiety.

Kazimir, impatient for a change after two days' imprisonment,
was soon out of the house and in motion,
his sledge-bells tinkling with each step of the horses.
It was the last time, he hoped, that he should drive
with hired horses, for he felt sanguine as to his mission
to-day. He was in high spirits altogether. The
winter sunshine, which had broken its way at last,
stared down from a pale-blue cloudless sky, pouring
light-floods over the earth.

Kazimir's road led down the centre of the garden ;
then, as the garden on either side died off without
definite limits, the road ran up the gradual but rocky
slope, and plunged into the woods beyond, — the great
deep forest, which seemed to be everywhere, and to
lead everywhere. But before turning his horses' heads
in that direction, he had a glimpse of the open country
at the other side ; a white world of fields and roads
and hills, all spotless and untouched, stretching in
snowy widespread waves to the horizon ; all giving
back the sun's light with blinding brightness; with
silver sparks struck here and there, and diamond-dust

scattered everywhere. The windows of the low house
blazed as though they were on fire.

As Kazimir drove towards the forest, he could trace
footsteps of some animal, coming from between the
trees, crossing and recrossing over the flower-beds.
Hungry foxes, no doubt, driven to dig for roots.

In the forest it was lonely, and on a dull day
would be dark ; but to-day the silver sunshine peered
through the branches, and the blue sky showed between
the tree-tops. The green leaves, which in
summer so jealously curtained the entrance to the
forest sanctuaries, were lying dead and buried under
the snow ; and at either side the eye could plunge into
a vista of retreating stems. Every branch and bush
was laden with snow ; every tree-hollow was filled to
overflowing ; every tiny twig which could hold a snowflake,
had its load. The thorny arches of wild rosebushes,
which in summer flowered pink, now nodded
under white burdens. There were more tracks of
animals here, passing in and out between the trees,
but there was no life, except when at times a solitary
bird, startled by the approach of the sledge,
darted from its perch, while the recoiling twig, with a
spring upwards, shook itself free of the clinging flakes.
Neither was there any sound in the wood, but an occasional
fall of snow, as some overladen branch discharged
its burden on the white carpet below.

It was all a new experience to Kazimir. He had
been so long away from his country, that he had
grown almost to forget the delights of this gliding
magical swiftness with which they were flying along
close to the hard surface. The frost was keen; the
breath of the tramping horses curled away like smoke
into the sharp air. Kazimir, muffled up to his ears,
and buried down to his toes in fur, heartily pitied the
poor driver, whose ears from pink had became red, and
from red were fast turning purple. Leaning back in
luxurious enjoyment of the motion, he drank in intoxicating
draughts of the pure winter air, and feasted his
eyes on the sparkles which hung on every branch,
and which flew away in shivers from under the
horses' hoofs.

The thought which had uncertain all other thoughts
during these last three days, rose now to the surface
of his mind, with a sanguine hope, engendered by
the brightness of this white winter day. Surely fate
had something good in store for him — surely his cards
were all trumps to-day — surely he would recover the
clue to those two rescued sisters, whom he had seen
so dimly and so vaguely.

Tinkle, tinkle came the sound of another sledge-bell
along the road. Kazimir's spirit leapt up in
hope. It seemed so easy to hope in the midst of this
glittering splendour. Why should not that sledge contain

the solution to the mystery ? He leant eagerly
out. Alas ! only a rude wooden construction, with
half-a-dozen peasants, men and women, huddled together
on the top of it; while the two little rough
koniki tore along madly through the snow, their
clotted manes shaking with each step, their sides
rubbed bare into streaks of shining leather by the
friction of the hard rope-harness.

Kazimir sank back disappointed, and in the same
moment experienced a chill of another description;
for a shower of snow came flying down from a branch
overhead, and treated the passing traveller to a cold
and unwelcome embrace. There were no more false
hopes either raised or crushed before they emerged
from the forest road, and found themselves close to
the term of their journey.

Lodniki would have been in many respects the
ideal of an American settler's hut. The large low
building, with some smaller buildings to the rear,
stood in a sort of bay of the great forest ; which bay
had evidently been but lately cleared — witness the
unevenness of the ground, where tree-stumps and
roots stood close together, and where trunks of forest-trees
lay at their length in the snow. The house itself
was turned with its face towards a vista of sloping
fields.

The back buildings appeared to have been planned

VOL. I. F

on a large scale; but most of them were unfinished,
and roughly roofed-in for the winter. There was a
-shadowy indication of something traced out on the
ground, hedged-in in a necessitous fashion, which
something might be destined to be in future a garden.
Everything bore the stamp of the new and the unfinished.
In an open shed some agricultural machines
stood covered with straw, peacefully sleeping their
winter sleep. Two large watch-dogs, with their hair
hanging in unkempt fringes all over them, received
the stranger noisily and savagely.

Before Kazimir could struggle out of his furs, the
host had appeared at the door, and, amidst smiles and
bows, warmly invited the visitor in. No matter that
he was a total stranger; to ask for hospitality in
Poland is to receive it.

There was so much warmth in Bogdanovics's manner
already, that there seemed scarcely room for more
when he learned that this stranger was hardly a
stranger, being the son of his old friend Bielinski,
with whom in old days he had gambled, and hunted,
and passed his time in so many other pleasant, if
unprofitable, ways. Was this really the little Kazimir
whom he remembered in a short green jacket and a
wide white collar, whom he had once protected against
Bogumil for some boyish offence, — it was running his
toy-sword through a picture, if he remembered right ?

Ah, well, that was long ago ; and what a pity it was
that Bogumil had made such a hermit of himself!
He, Rogdanovics, had only bought this estate, some
months ago ; but he had not ventured to intrude.
Kazimir could hardly get to the explanation of his
errand, so delighted and so talkative was the old
gentleman.

Of two or three long narrow buildings, half stables,
half sheds, Eogdanovics's breeding establishment consisted.
There is rarely a Polish Panic who does not
in a small way dabble in horse-breeding; but Rog-
danovics's experiments had been more extensive. His
mind was eminently of the sanguinely speculative
order. The horses, all huddled together, showed every
stage of youthful rawness, from long-legged foals to
tall unfinished colts. There was a general sound of
chewing, and an occasional stamp on the straw-covered
ground, — a peasant-groom was carrying about something
hot and steaming in a pail.

The choking atmosphere notwithstanding, Kazimir
lingered long in each shed ; but his errand was not
destined to be accomplished to-day, for one of the
carriage-horses was away to be shod. The solitary
specimen visible was so far from coming up to Aitzig
Majulik's epithet of * grand," that Kazimir, doubtful
about the bargain, was glad of the excuse of
postponement.

That will insure me another visit," said Kog-
danovics, as they walked towards the house. His
humour was waxing more radiant every minute. He
grew communicative as to his life, past, present, and
future.

Ah ! you must come and see me in summer, when
my fields will be in bloom," he said, button-holing
Kazimir on the door-step ; " it will be a pleasure to
look at them then," waving his hand towards the
vista of fields. "Every one of these tree-stumps is
going to be cleared off this year. I have heard of a
new machine, a brilliant speculation; extracts these
roots as neatly as teeth. See, there is my garden — my
future garden. To the left I shall grow asparagus and
artichokes. Artichokes have never succeeded yet in
this country, but I am ready to wager that mine will
succeed. To the right my daughter shall have her
flowers."

Have you only got one daughter ? " put in Kazimir,
with a faint glimmer of hope.

Only one daughter. I suppose you can't give meany
advice about steam-ploughs ? I am hesitating
between two kinds ; there are pros and cons on both
sides."

I am afraid I know nothing about steam-ploughs,"
said Kazimir, crest-fallen.

To be sure, you are a soldier. But you shiver —

come, and I will introduce you to my daughter at
dinner."

The drawing-room was a larger room than at Wowa-
sulla, and bearing evidences of greater wealth. Tables,
chairs, and sofas, were rich and solid ; and though
there were nothing but tables, chairs, and sofas, without
any of these accessories which in an English
room speak of occupation and habitation, still it was
unmistakably the room of a rich man. On one table
there stood a vase with a faded bouquet.

The daughter could not have been unprepared for
the summons, for she quickly appeared. She had a
plain brown dress on and a scarlet shawl wrapped
round her ; she had grey eyes and smooth brown hair.
She inclined her head stiffly, but in the same moment
she glanced at the visitor furtively and curiously.
Kazimir, meeting that glance, wondered what it meant.
There was nothing either in her height or in her figure
which forbade the possibility of her having been one
of those two distressed damsels in the snow ; but yet
Kazimir felt himself touched by none but the very
faintest feeling of recognition ; and when he heard the
name of Vizia, his interest all but collapsed.

"You have not got a sister, mademoiselle?" he
inquired, nevertheless, after they were seated at table,
and were attacking their pink beetroot-soup, the much-famed
Barscz of Poland. There was a fourth plate of

pink soup on the table, which must belong, Kazimir
thought, to some poor relative ; one of those nondescript
hangers-on, old aunts, or penniless cousins, who,
in almost every Polish family, are allowed a corner
and a plate under the patriarchal roof.

Kazimir had been observing Vizia, and it had struck
him more forcibly that, after all, she might have been
one of those two damsels — the least interesting, of
course, if either.

Certainly I have got no sister," answered Vizia,
raising her eyebrows perceptibly.

"Not a younger sister?" persisted Kazimir, disregarding
every previous assurance he had had to
the contrary.

Certainly not," repeated the lady with a shade
more primness, perhaps because Kazimir had laid
such a stress on the adjective used.

That was a fearful snowstorm the other night,"
was Kazimir's next attempt. " I hope you were not
in it?" He looked at the daughter, but the father
broke in —

Not I ; I have better things to do than that.
My time is gold, you know. I had plenty to do in
stowing away potatoes for the winter. I have a
capital in potatoes lying in that barn "pointing with
his fork out of the window. " Anything will grow inland
like this ; every spadeful turns up gold, I say —

ha ! ha ! A spade is all a man needs to make his
fortune with here." Eogdanovics patted his fork as
approvingly as though it had been the vaunted spade,
and dug it vigorously into the viand before him.
w But the people are fools. I am going to grow rice
next year ; it will be a grand speculation. I suppose
you cannot give me any hints about systems of sowing
? How do they do it where you are stationed,
down in Tyrol ? "

I am afraid I never noticed," confessed Kazimir.

Here the talk was interrupted by the domestic
Pawel, who serenely announced that there was only
one partridge for three people. Pawel was a brisk
young fellow, wearing yellow livery gaiters, and a
green and grey jacket, which gave to the upper half
of his person a doubtfully sporting character.

Ah ! our larder is getting low in this weather,"
remarked the host, with undisturbed equanimity.
We had plenty of partridges a fortnight ago. Are
you a sportsman ? Pity you were not here last week.
Got fifty head of game in two days."

Fifty-three," corrected Pawel from the side-table.

Well, Pawel, I suppose you know best. You were
our crack gun that day. You shot that five-antlered
stag."

Seven - antlered," rectified Pawel, brimming over
with pride.

The snow has spoiled the sport, you see," said
Bogdanovics.

And the foxes eat my hens," said Vizia,

Just wait till the cold has given them confidence,
and I am ready to wager that we shall get rid of them
somehow."

Thus conversation flowed on; but it was scarcely
more than a monologue, carried on by Eogdanovics.
It was hard to show interest in the lists of agricultural
machines, and in the hundred and one speculative
schemes upon which Eogdanovics proceeded to
expatiate. There was a fortune to be gained by doing
something to the marshy stream in the meadows ;
there were thousands of florins lying dormant in the
wool of unborn lambs ; he had some splendid system
for feeding cows upon beetroot - refuse which would
instantly double the supply of milk and butter ; and
as for the forest ! why, there were millions staring
the people in the face, if they were not too blind to
see it. But he, Eogdanovics, would show them the
way. He was not going to sit with his hands tied in
the midst of all this untold wealth, only waiting to be
gathered. And then, crowning point of all, there was
the railway ; a railway in the clouds as yet, but it
would come down to the earth some day. And thus
on and on Eogdanovics pranced and surveyed on his
private hobby-horse — never pausing to reflect that

the paces of that hobby-horse might interest the
spectators less than they did the rider. He was of a
genial nature ; a well-wisher towards every one of his
fellow-creatures — except, perhaps, towards an inconvenient
neighbour, who happened to possess a more
successful mowing-machine, or a higher breed of pigs
than his own, — but yet, Eogdanovics's best wishes
were always for himself.

It was almost a relief when, after dinner, the talkative
host, having caught sight of some irregular proceeding
in the courtyard, left the room precipitately.

Kazimir drew a long breath; it was a pleasant
change to be able to talk ; and for the last twenty
minutes he had heard his own voice only in solitary
and far isolated monosyllables.

Do you take one or two lumps of sugar in your
coffee ? " said a voice from the table over there. Vizia
was pouring out the coffee. Kazimir left the window.

Two, if you please."

The hand which held out the coffee-cup was a well-shaped
white hand, — Kazimir's eyes travelled up
further. She was not so very bad-looking after all.
If her complexion wanted freshness, it was at least
pure ; the grey eyes were well set ; the colour of her
plain brown hair harmonised with her plain brown
dress. She was neither pretty in face nor particularly
attractive in manner. It would require positive attractions

of mind to redeem her from the imputation
of being a commonplace woman ; but Kazimir did not
belong to that class of men who, on first beholding a
woman, set to work instantly to analyse and classify
her charms and her defects. Every face has, weare
told, its caricature and its ideal ; and it lay in
Kazimir's nature unconsciously to look for the ideal
rather than for the caricature.

Your father seems to be heart and soul in his
farming," said Kazimir, as he sipped his coffee.

He is always heart and soul in whatever he does,"
said Vii a, almost with apology." He cannot help it."

•• Why should he help it? what can be better than
energy ? "

u But it does not do to see all couleur de rose."

Better than seeing everything black," said Kazimir,
smiling. He himself very much preferred the rose-colour
to the black.

Yizia smiled too. The first crust of etiquette was
beginning to yield. The want of the sweet and smiling
element in her nature had made her stiffer and
primmer at first than even Polish etiquette demanded,
but it was difficult to keep stiff with Kazimir
Bielinski.

But there are a great many shades between rose-coloured
and black ; now papa's fields, and horses, and
lambs are always pure rose-coloured in perspective."

I have got no fields and lambs, but my horses are
always rose-coloured too."

Even when they are black ? "

Even when they are black," said Kazimir, and he
laughed. His laugh was so infectious that another
shade of stiffness melted from Vizia's manner. First
she smiled, then she laughed ; and after that they felt
that their friendship had made a stride. There is
nothing which brings people so quickly together as a
little nonsense. Half an hour's sedate conversation
will not do as much as one harmless though possibly
meaningless joke.

I hope you do not much dislike hearing about spades
and ploughs," said Vizia, putting down her coffee-cup.

No ; although they are not the things that I
earnestly dote upon. I hope it is not rude and
selfish to say so. Are you going to tell me more
about them ? " This a little anxiously ; for this conversation
was so pleasant, that somehow he dreaded a
revival of the plough and cattle subject.

You had too much of them at dinner," said Vizia,
not as a question, but as an assertion. She was looking
at him straight, and Kazimir thought that he had
never seen so straight and unwavering a gaze, with
something of defiance, too, in its very candour. It
would be hard to dissemble under that full gaze, but
Kazimir did not think of dissembling.

I had rather more than I was prepared for, if I
may say so. I have a deep reverence for agricultural
instruments, but I do not think that I know a sickle
from a spade. The sword is the only blade for me."

A Pole should wear none but a Polish sword,"
said Vizia.

Mademoiselle Yizia, we shall quarrel about this
if we go on. If you say one word against my profession,
we can never be friends."

You are enthusiastic," she said, looking up at him.
"You could be as enthusiastic about your sword as
papa about his ploughs."

Yes, and I could talk about it by the hour."

Then why don't you ? "

Take care ! you don't know what you are bringing
down upon your own head. You have no notion
what I am when I get on that subject. Lucyan never
listens, and Marcin always goes to sleep. It would
weary you most awfully."

I shall tell you when you begin to weary me."

Thank you ; that is so kind," said Kazimir, gratefully.
Her tone had been quite matter-of-fact ; but
Kazimir's heart warmed instantly at the half-implied
invitation. He did not wait for a second. He talked,
and she listened and questioned ; and after ten minutes
of discussion and description did not look weary
yet.

"And you see that we can be friends in spite of
my hussar-cording \ " asked Kazimir, at the end of
those ten minutes. He wanted to be friends with her,
as he wanted to be friends with everybody.

Yes ; we need not be enemies on that account,"
said Vizia, with a warm flush on her cheek. He
really did not look as if he wanted to be her enemy.
We need not even quarrel any more."

Have we been quarrelling ? "

Well, I think we were nearly quarrelling about
spades and sickles."

Yes, because I said I had no opinion of them."

But you are wrong to despise them, even from a
soldier's point of view. In almost every national war
they have played a part."

By national wars you mean revolutions ? "

Yes ; and in revolutions the sickle has many times
done the work of the sword. I hope it may do so
for us still."

I hope not," said Kazimir, excitedly, for the subject
was near to his heart ; " that would be folly,
pure folly."

You talk as if you were not a Pole ! "

"lama Pole, but an enlightened one."

That means a cold one."

That does not mean a cold one," said Kazimir,
springing from his chair and pacing the room. " Mademoiselle

Vizia, it seems we are going to quarrel again,
after all."

Then, will you fight with us when we rise, as
surely we shall rise some day ? " asked Vizia, with
a quick turn of her head, for the subject lay near
her heart too. She looked at him as if she almost
thought that if he did fight with them, their cause
might have a chance of being crowned.

I cannot, for I am an Austrian soldier."

And yet you are a Polish patriot."

That is just what they all said to me at the time.
and a hard time it was to me," said Kazimir, stopping
beside the table.

What time ? " said Vizia, anxious to hear more.

I will tell you, if you like. In '48, my regiment
was in Dukla ; and the second division was stationed
some miles off. You know, I daresay, that the moment
the revolution began, the Hungarian ministry called
in all Hungarian regiments. They sent the order tous
too ; to the colonel first, but he did not publish it ;
then to the major commanding the second division.
He published it, and the second division went mad
on the spot."

And you went mad with them ? "

Xo, I did not — perhaps because I was not a Hungarian;
although there were Poles and Bohemians
among them who went quite as mad as any Hungarian.

Our turn would come, they said; this was
the beginning of universal liberty ; help them and they
would help us, &c. Some of them had doubts, but
they managed to argue and drink themselves up to
the point, except one unfortunate man with a conscience,
who shot himself, because he could not makeup
his mind whether he would be behaving like a
great hero, or like a great blackguard, if he went. For
my part I never could see where the difficulty lay, nor
what there was to argue about. ' Either they meant
to break their oath of allegiance or they did not. I
did not mean to break mine, so I stayed. It never
puzzled me for a moment, but it hurt me for many
days."

And how many stayed altogether ? "

How many 1 Oh, nobody else stayed of my
division. I stood behind a tree and watched them
ride off one splendid autumn morning ; they were all
singing and shouting : and when I had seen the last
sword glitter, and heard the last hoof-fall die away, I
turned back, and, Mademoiselle Vizia — I "

"Well?"

I cried," he finished with half-comical pathos. " 1
was very young, remember — scarcely seventeen; the
youngest lieutenant in the regiment. Please don't
laugh at me."

Vizia was not laughing; she was not quite sure

whether she was so very far from crying herself. He
had told the story with such perfect simplicity, with
such an utter want of self-consciousness, that it was
impossible to suspect him of attempting to attitudinise
as a hero. It was, in fact, the first time he had ever
told the story at all.

"But I was right to stay, was I not?" asked
Kazimir.

Vizia' s nationality was struggling with some other
feeling in her breast. She did not say whether he had
been right or whether he had been wrong, but entirely
on impulse she put out her hand to him, and Kazimir
took it.

And if it had been a Polish regiment ? " she asked
with a not quite steady smile, and in a voice which
might have been made hoarse either by emotion or
by her cold ; " and a Polish revolution, which you
were called upon to help?"

Then perhaps I should have cried a little harder,"
said Kazimir, half laughing and half moved ; and quite
as impulsively as Vizia had held out her hand, Kazimir
raised it and kissed it.

At this very moment the door opened, and Eog-
danovics put in his head.

I am a shameful host, Bielinski ; but they are all
tearing me to pieces outside. I hope Vizia is doing
her part better. Aha! yes, I think she is, — better

than I could have hoped," with a chuckle of delight.
You will excuse me for another five minutes ; the
new guano has just arrived."

He was gone again, before any answer could be made.

Vizia had hastily withdrawn her hand, and moved
her head distinctly upwards. The twinkle in her
father's eye had alarmed her pride. Why should she
allow herself to treat this man as an old friend, when,
after all, he was but a stranger ? This tete-astute was
altogether irregular ; an infringement of Polish etiquette.
It was very disagreeable ; or at least it ought
to be very disagreeable. Vizia bit her lip with vexation,
and, as a sort of tacit protest against further
intimacy, put her hand into her pocket and drew out
a pair of pale kid gloves. Kid gloves, even though
slightly soiled, were the best protection against a
stranger.

Please do not be angry with me," said Kazimir, ashe
watched her proceedings with a puzzled air ; " but
you remind me a little of a lady whom I met the other
day."

Eeally ? " said Vizia, with forced coldness ; carefully
drawing on her gloves. She was conscientiously
trying to freeze back into the icicle she had been at
first.

Yes really ; a lady who wore gloves like these, —
only I think her hair was lighter than yours."

VOL. I. G

Oh, I daresay ! " How hard and unamiable her
voice sounded now !

But you have no sister." He said it with a sort
of vague hope that there might be a sister concealed
somewhere.

Vizia hesitated for one moment. She had slowly
but surely come to the conclusion that this was the
same man whom they had met in the snowstorm ; she
was quite sure of it now. She saw that he was
puzzled, and she knew that one word of hers could
explain the mystery. That word — she did not feel
inclined to speak it. Some instinct, much too subtle
to bear analysis, told her to be silent. Had the beautiful
Xenia been well enough to appear, then the
mystery would have become clear long ago ; for who,
having once seen her, could fail to recognise her ? But
then, would they two, would she and Kazimir, have
got on so well together ? That tete-astute which she
was endeavouring to condemn, Vizia suddenly became
aware that she had not succeeded in condemning at
all. It was not disagreeable ; it was new, and it was
pleasant.

No, of course I have no sister' she said quickly.
It was the perfect truth, and yet it was deception ; and
indirect though it was, to her particular nature it was
unbearable. She lost for a moment the self-possession
which so rarely forsook her. Looking round for anything

to change the subject, and leave this perilous
ground, her eye was caught by the faded bouquet on
the table.

Do you care for flowers ? " she asked, with a sort
of gasp.

Kazimir did not care for flowers, and he said so
honestly. It was the first entirely conventional question
she had put that day, and the abruptness of transition
surprised him much.

Did she care for flowers ? Yes, rather, — that is to
say, some flowers — camellias, for instance.

The few dead camellias in the middle of the bouquet
had probably suggested the idea. If there had been
turnips or cauliflowers there instead, Vizia would
certainly have seized upon them equally as a subject
of conversation.

Kazimir displayed a deplorable masculine ignorance
on the subject of camellias; and perhaps it was in
return for the instruction he received that he said at
parting —

I shall try and bring you some of these flowers
you are so fond of." He was always chivalrously
inclined to further any wish, however slight, of any
lady ; but how could Vizia know this ? " I hope I
shall not have forgotten the name when I come back
again on Saturday."

"When he comes back again on Saturday," thought

Vizia, after lie was gone. Somehow, for no reason
that she knew, her interest in camellias had suddenly
become real. She was really anxious to get that
flower on Saturday. Perhaps if she had been promised
a cauliflower, she would have looked forward
to it with an equal longing.

After all, a pretty face is not everything," she
said, standing before the mirror. " Some men look
deeper than that ; " and even as she said it, it
struck her that her own face had never before looked,
not so pretty, but so little plain. That smile which
sat upon it so well, replacing the frown which sat
upon it so ill, why was it so seldom there ? and what
meant the wave of warm colour in her cheek? and
what was this dim and dawning feeling of a delight,
scarcely real yet, still trembling on its insecure foundations,
and never before known to her ?

The primrose gloves were on her hands still; she
drew them off now slowly. For these last ten minutes
they had been nothing but a hollow mockery.

The ice cannot choose but melt when the sun shines
upon it.

CHAPTER VI.

FINESSING.

La parole a ete connie a l'horame pour d^guiser sa pense."

—Voltaire.

Kazimir had been three full days at home, and he had
not yet seen his mother. Even his aunt Libertine he
had seen only distantly, disappearing down passages
and into doorways. On the fourth day, however, she
entered the room where he was sitting.

A sort of black walking pillar (such was Kazimir's
impression) glided in. This must be a woman, to
judge from the sweeping garments more than from
the face ; for a black woollen shawl covered her head,
and deeply shaded her features, ostensibly a protection
from the cold draughts of the passages ; but in
some vague manner the spectator wondered what
mystery it hid. Was there some dark secret enveloping
her past ? — was there some black cloud which
hung over her present? — had she a beard, or had she
no nose ? — people asked themselves aghast. Even her

relatives, well as they knew her, could never quite
suppress a half-unconscious feeling of surprise whenever,
on throwing back her shawl, she showed herself
to be an ordinary woman. She had a nose, and with
a vengeance too. Every one of the canvas noses on
the wall might have shrunk away humiliated before
this one. The hereditary bridge, in this instance,
should have been enough to endow a whole generation.
The hereditary height, the hereditary shape of
eyelids, and the hereditary largeness of muscles, had
found their full expression here. She was a Bielinska
all over, as she proudly proclaimed.

Mademoiselle Eobertine had found herself£ forced
to be instrumental in summoning Kazimir to his
mother's side ; but to make up for it now, she did her
best to keep him away. She had fenced and parried
as long as she could ; but on the fourth day of Kashmir's
stay she was compelled to begin lifting the veil,
inch by inch, and evidently under protest. It was
absolute pain to her to lift it at all.

There are some natures that revel in darkness, and
Mademoiselle Eobertine's was one of them. Innocent
mystery, harmless obscurity, was the air she breathed,
the food she lived on.

Madame Bielinska was not much worse than usual,
she admitted to Kazimir ; and, his aunt regretted it
much, but his mother desired to see him. He was,

in fact, to have his first little peep. After many
whispered instructions outside the door, and injunctions
to avoid talking, and walking, and breathing
if possible, Kazimir was beckoned noiselessly into
the room; and even then, though he advanced on
tiptoe, his aunt looked daggers at him, as his spurs
jingled faintly against the polished floor. Kazimir
was not used to sick-rooms ; the warm scented air
choked him ; the light, stealing in sparingly through
heavy green curtains, was darkness to him. He came
in contact with something which he supposed a screen,
and was terrified by a low groan in his ear. He fully
expected to hear his mother shriek next, but she did
not ; only in the big arm-chair at the far end of the
room there was a movement of some living thing.

Then Kazimir felt his arm caught by some one,
whom in the dark he barely recognised as Lucyan.
There was a whisper in his ear : " Remember on no
account to allude to money matters ; it is that which
agitates her." His arm was relaxed, and Lucyan
glided out, moving as easily in the dark as if all had
been light and clear.

Kazimir's nerves were strong by nature, but this
mysterious ushering into the sick-chamber, combined
with all these warnings, and the vagueness attending
them, were beginning to chafe his nervous system.

Kazio, is this you ? Why have you not come tome

before ? " It was his mother's voice, but, ah, how
changed ! The remainder of the dark space was traversed
in two strides, which quite upset Mademoiselle
Eobertine's calmness, and Kazimir knelt by
his mother's side, pressing both her wasted hands to
his lips.

Somehow that slight shade of coolness which had
existed between mother and son melted at once when
they were face to face. There was much more hope
in Madame Bielinska's talk than Kazimir had dared
to expect. " Yes, I may be among you in a day or
two," she said, answering her son.

There was a great clatter over there among the
empty bottles. Kazimir looked round inquiringly ; it
was only an effort of aunt Eobertine's to drown this
indiscreet admission.

Please, dear Eobertine, do not take any more
trouble with those bottles," said the invalid; "you are
fatiguing yourself, and Kazimir and I have so much to
talk about."

In order to humour the patient, without taking the
int implied, Eobertine left the medicine-bottles and
began dusting the prayer-books on the prie-dieu. There
were about fifteen prayer-books there of different sizes,
so the prospect was dreary — Kazimir's patience gave
way at the third.

Would you mind dusting the prayer-books a little

later, aunt Libertine ? I think my mother wants to
speak to me alone."

It was difficult to believe the testimony of her own
ears — well-tried organs of hearing though they were —
she was positively being asked by the son to leave him
alone with his mother.

Yes, dear Libertine ; Kazio will take care of me
for ten minutes."

It is the last straw which breaks the camel's back.
Here was the mother asking to be left alone with the
son. Libertine was so staggered by the unexampled
audacity, that she actually laid down the red and
yellow feather brush, and only venting her feelings ina
long low groan of anguish, slowly dragged her steps
from the room. Where, oh, where could Kazimir have
picked up this intolerable habit of plain speaking, this
odious fashion of saying the thing he meant to say
in so many cut-and-dry words ? Yes, assuredly, the
military profession was the perversion of youth. She
felt powerless against a soldier's bluntness — she would
go and seek in an ally consolation, perhaps help.

"We shall not be left long alone," said Madame
Bielinska, with a faint smile ; " I must try and explain
to you all that I wish, before we are interrupted
again."

What is it about, mother ? "

It is about money ! "

With Lucy aii's warning still fresh in his mind,
Kazimir was painfully anxious to avoid the subject of
money, but his mother eagerly clung to it. It certainly
was true that towards that point her thoughts
seemed to be striving incessantly.

u There is great need to talk of it," she persisted,
when he demurred ; " you must understand your position
clearly, as well as that of your brothers ; and you
must make your choice with your eyes open, as to the
way you will follow. No, don't interrupt me ; for the
present you have made your choice. Ah, Kazimir,
you were too strong for me there ; but later, when I
am later, you may change your mind."

Kazimir did not say " Never," much as he should
have liked to do so.

You have never paid much attention to money
matters, Kazio, but you must know that we have
not one quarter of what we used to have."

It was quite true that Kazimir knew very little
about the state of their fortunes. All he knew was,
that they had been great people in the days when
he had been a child, and that they were small people
now. He knew that the rooms had been large and
stately then, and the furniture of velvet ; and that
now the drawing-room had but three windows, and
the chairs were covered with green rep : that the
portraits of his ancestors had once hung upon high

walls, and that now they hung upon low ones. He
had not learnt to set much store by money, and he
could not have dreamt of making an estimate of their
probable income, even had the idea occurred to him.
Corn, brandy, and cattle, and all other chief features
of a Polish property, were meaningless to himself. He
could not have hazarded the wildest guess as to the
value of land ; a field of grain, where an expert would
have seen golden ducats waving from every full ear,
was to him a field of grain, " and it was nothing more ; "
or, if anything more, it was a place which might be
good for a canter after harvest time.

No, mother ; I have never cared about money
matters," said Kazimir, trying to speak with resignation,
for he saw long explanations impending.

Then attend to me," said the invalid, sitting up.
The management of Wowasulka is a troublesome
thing, as you will find when you have to take it into
your own hands."

He would rather be without it, thought Kazimir,
as unwillingly he listened to his mother's exposition.
What struck him most was, that though she evidently
had her subject much at heart, and went into it deeply
and earnestly, she did not show any signs of that
baneful agitation, against which Lucyan had so warned
him. She was as clear and calm as Kazimir had
ever remembered her ; w T with her sad slow voice and

her half-affected lisp, her scent-bottle and her elaborately
curled hair, her little weaknesses and her great
strength.

At the end of five minutes he had gathered a general
impression of valuable soil, not fortunately situated ;
of certain advantages, of which he understood nothing,
neutralised by certain disadvantages, of which he
understood, if possible, less. As yet he had received
no general impression, he had not grasped the outline
of their situation.

So the wood is valuable ? " ventured Kazimir,
rather vaguely, wishing to show some interest.

Yes, but it is 'not there that our chief strength lies.
You know the line of little spirit-shops that lie along
the highroad ? "
Yes, hideous little huts," said Kazimir.
"Well, those hideous little huts are the very life
of Wowasulka ; by far the most valuable part of the
estate. The lease has been held by faithful old Natal
Taubenkiibel for years, though we have constant
applications for it. I believe it is Aitzig Majulik's
ideal of happiness to get the Propinacya into his hands.
If you give me the account-book over there, you will
understand it better by looking at the totals of sums
taken for wddki last year. There, that little green
book under the big missal."

Kazimir groped his way towards the missal.

Of course the value of the land is fluctuating
always ; but should it ever be advisable to sell Wowa-
sulla, I do not think that each of your portions should
realise less than "

"Lucyan, is that you?" said Kazimir, startled, as a
hand was laid on his sleeve. " How did you come inhere
? "

By the door, of course."

But what have you got on your feet ? I never
heard your boots creak."

I never wear creaking boots ; they don't do for
sick-rooms."

Madame Bielinska sank back with an impatient
sigh. Lucyan's eyes followed the movement. " I knew
it, Kazio ; you have tired her with talking." He bent
over his mother and kissed her hand.

"Are you going to take him away?" she asked
fretfully.

"I must, for aunt Libertine is languishing outside
with your cup of bouillon. We must both go.
Come, Kazio ; never mind that little green book. I have
something I want particularly to show you up stairs."

Lucyan's private sanctuary, rarely entered by anyone
but himself, lay at the top of the house. It was
a small square room with a good view from its one
window. By reason of its small size, or else by reason
of its occupant's character, it had a look of greater

comfort about it than airy other room in the house.
It had curtains to the windows, and a blind which
could really pull up and down ; a piece of carpet on
the ground ; a genuine washing-table, on which stood
several mysterious flagons, together with the piece of
perfumed soap, of which Kazimir had heard before.
There were also an unbroken looking-glass, a deep-seated,
though shabby arm-chair, and a book-shelf,
where both gay and grave elements were represented ;
for beside such titles as, "The Laws of Wills and
Executors," together with more intimidating Latin
names, frowning down from dingy leather, there
were yellow paper covers, the widely known uniform
of the lightest if not most unexceptionable French
literature. The third element in the book-shelves,
perhaps the third interest in the owner's life, found
expression in some elaborately bound volumes on
horticulture, and various small pamphlets, with such
titles as, " The Florist's Guide," " Hints to the Rose-lover,"
&c. In the window there was a long green
box with some very young and sickly plants in a row ;
also some half-dozen more or less promising flowerpots.
The whole of the small space bore the impress of
having been made as habitable as circumstances would
permit : a well-feathered nest, made cosy with every
stray shred which forethought and care could collect.
"What is it that you want to show me so particularly

? " demanded Kazirnir, looking round him.
He was put out by the abrupt termination of his interview
down-stairs ; not that he wanted to hear anything
more about the money subject, but he resented
his brother's interference.

Come here ; I want to show you my flowers : you
have not seen my window-garden yet."

Your window-garden ! Nonsense, Lucyan ! You
know that I have no patience for flowers ! " exclaimed
Kazimir, in extreme disgust. "Is that what you
brought me here for?"

Well, not exactly, mon cher" said Lucyan, as with
deft fingers he began tenderly picking the dead leaves
off a fine azalea plant. " But, you see, I warned you
against conversations of that sort ; and when I found
you engaged in one, you had to be got out of the room."

And you held out that green box full of weeds asa
bribe ? " said Kazimir, still incensed.

Lucyan gave no answer, except with his shoulders,
which he slightly raised. He had no particular objection
to Kazimir calling his flowers weeds, and his
window-garden a green box! He was not going to dispute
with him about mere names.

I wish you would speak, instead of pulling about
that detestable bush."

"I shall be delighted, when you have done. I
thought you had more to say."

Oh, nothing ; except that I don't see the use of my
being here."

Lucyan took up a miniature watering-can, and began
watering the window-garden.

Come, Kazio," he said, with his imperturbable
good temper, "you know so very little about invalids
that you really must rely upon other judgments.
Que voulez vous ? Aunt Eobertine and I are
agreed — what is that you said?" for Kazimir was
heard to mutter something not very complimentary
to aunt Eobertine.

Never mind, go on. Aunt Eobertine and you are
agreed about something."

We are agreed that peace and quiet are the most
imperative conditions of my mother's improvement.
I warned you expressly not to touch on agitating
subjects."

She was not in the least agitated."

Perhaps not at the moment ; the reaction is
later."

I did not begin about it," said Kazimir, doggedly.

Oh, you did not ? " with a point of interrogation.
He went on watering his plants, while Kazimir stared
at the prints on the wall.

What an idea you have of making yourself comfortable
! " remarked Kazimir, after a silence. " And
what a lot of pretty women you have got on your

wall ! Why, you have nothing but women, I declare,
and they are all pretty."

Well, I flatter myself that I am rather a connoisseur,"
said Lucyan, quietly.

That girl there is almost as pretty as my heroine
in the snow," and Kazimir pointed to the French
print of an impossibly perfect fruit - seller. " That
print would be my favourite."

It is my favourite," said Lucyan, looking over his
brother's shoulder, " among the blondes at least ; but I
prefer brunettes on the whole," with a laugh much too
cynical for his twenty-four years.

He resumed the watering of his plants, and presently
observed, suggestively —

I suppose she spoke about the rents, and the
brandy-making, and the cattle ? "

Who ? my mother ? Yes, she did."

And about the corn and the labourers ? "

And about the woods and the potato-fields, till I
felt quite giddy."

Ah ! no doubt. Poor Kazio ! that is not much in
your line. I thought that sort of conversation could
not interest you much."

No, especially as half of it was Greek to me."

Of course ; but yet you must have gained a good
deal of knowledge to-day ? "

Not I. I am as wise as I was before. She was

VOL. I. H

going to have shown me something in a green book,
but you came in just then."

That is well," said Lucyan, putting down the
empty watering-can with a sigh of relief.

What is well ? "

This azalea, my pet azalea. Come and look at it.
There are two new flowers opened this morning."

I wish you would not try and cram your flowers
down my throat, Lucyan; but oh, to be sure, I did
promise to bring some sort of a flower to Mademoiselle
Eo^danovics."

You did, really ? What does she want it for ? "

I don't quite know, and I have forgotten the
name. I daresay it was one of these — what do you
call them?"

Azaleas."

That sounds rather like it. I know it was a soft
sort of a name that melted in your mouth like a
lump of sugar. You may as well give me one of those."

Not that one ! " cried Lucyan, springing forward
to protect his favourite pot, towards which Kazimir
had put out his hand. " I will give you one when
you go there on Saturday."

Won't you come with me on Saturday ? "

I don't feel particularly tempted."

Are not three stables full of young horses a
temptation ? " •

Three stables ! I did not know he had anything
of a stud."

Oh, hasn't he ! ever so much quantity if not
quality."

And how does it pay him ? "

I can't say. He seems to have plenty of money
to spend."

I did not know that," said Lucyan, meditatively.
He has come here so lately, that I know very little
about him."

He is a genial old chatterton."

Oh, T don't mean that ; but what is the house
like ? Does he seem to be farming on a large
scale?"

On an enormous scale, I think. You had really
better go with me on Saturday. You can talk to old
Eogdanovics about reaping - machines and steam-ploughs
"

While you are talking to Mademoiselle Vizia
about azaleas ? No, thank you ; I think not. What
is she like, by the by ? "

Not pretty at all, but with plenty of — what shall
I call it? — character, I think I mean. She really
has got something in her head besides ribbons and
laces."

That is as clear as Marcin could have made it."

At all events, I like her very much."

Oh yes — that could not be clearer, at any rate."
Talking of Marcin," began Kazimir, after a minute,
do you know, Lucyan, I do not understand him at
all. Why does he go mooning about the house in that
manner ? "

That is only his way," said Lucyan. " Marcin is
always vague."

Perhaps," said Kazimir, doubtfully ; " but he
seems to me to be several degrees vaguer than usual.
Have you noticed the way in which he wanders about
the house with his hat on, smiling at things by the
hour ? "

"What sort of things does he smile at?"

Very strange things. Yesterday I found him
standing in the passage with a smile of ecstatic
admiration on his face, and there was nothing to
admire anywhere within sight, except a broken pot
with a label marked ' Leeches, with care — not to be
shaken.' There was nothing marvellous in that, was
there?"

No, nothing."

And this morning, when I came into the drawing-room,
he was tenderly stroking a pill-box. He does
not do that sort of thing always, does he ? "

No, not always," smiled Lucyan, looking out of
the window.

- What is it you are studying ? "

The snow. I am afraid it is going to be an exceptionally
hard winter."

For the poor peasants, yes."

I don't mean the poor peasants ; I mean my poor
plants. Do you see those tracks in the snow ? They
are foxes. No other beast walks in that straight line,
one foot before the other. When they get a little
bolder, they will grub up my flower-roots."

Oh, is that all ? The country seems overrun with
foxes. Mademoiselle Vizia was complaining that they
ate her hens."

If you were a sportsman, Kazio, you might have
rid us of some of them."

Poor beasts ! why should they not live ? I should
certainly eat hens if I were a hungry fox."

Lucyan shook his head.

Oh, you will never do for a farmer, Kazio, if you
do not take the part of the hens against the fox."

Long after Kazimir had left him, Lucyan went on
working at his window-garden — weeding, and watering,
and pruning, and carefully tending each plant, down
to the tiniest and sickliest of the green sprouts. The
faint smile still on his face, showed that he was following
up some train of thought ; but not one inch of
the window-garden was neglected for that — not one
dead leaf did he omit to clip off.

Lucyan possessed that quality of great men : the

power of applying his mind, in all its force and entirety,
upon whatever object he had in hand, whether
great or small. It is a valuable quality, and one
which is sure to serve the owner well in all phases
of life.

CHAPTER VII.

QUEEN OF HEARTS.

. . . Alar auf einmal fuhlt ici's in mir warden
Die list es, Oder Reine sons auf Eden."

Schiller.

Saturday was not nearly such a fine day as its
immediate predecessors ; neither was Kazimir in such
good spirits. The prospect of seeing the fellow to
a rather clumsy-looking bay was not positively exhilarating
; the prospect of another conversation with
Vizia alone seemed to promise some enjoyment.

We are such deplorably sensitive creatures after all,
so easily cheered or distressed by the mere fact of the
sun shining or not. Life seems easy one day because
the sky is blue, and difficult the next, because it is
grey; and yet the grey day may bring us better
things than the blue one, and the gift will be the
more precious from being the less anticipated.

At first it seemed as though this second visit was
going to be but a repetition of the first. Vizia sat on

the same sofa and listened, while he sat on the same
chair and talked. It is true that Yizia wore a silk
dress to-day, and it is true also that they met almost
like old friends, and that Kazimir said as much, and
was not rebuked for it. He began to wonder how he
could have found her manner unattractive at first ;
every trace of ungracious coldness was gone. The
other day he had taken interest in her, only on account
of the vague memory which connected her
somehow with that figure in the snow; to-day he
began to like her for herself. His liking increased
in proportion as those memories weakened.

When Kazimir made the remark about meeting as
old friends, Vizia did not answer, but looked past him
through the window. He was always confident that
his friendship would be accepted with the same warm
frankness with which he was used to proffer it. How
could he be conscious of the thrill which went through
Vizia's heart ? How could he guess that his manner
and tone said so much more than there was to say ?

You must be rather in want of friends in this
lonely place," suggested Kazimir.

"Rather — not much," faltered Vizia, with hot
cheeks, for she was practising a deception which she
detested, but to which she yet clung. What madness
had moved her to pass over Xenia's existence in
silence? Xenia could not be concealed for ever.

Vizia had left her before the glass, trying to decide
between the merits of mauve and blue. Any moment
might bring a step down the passage. Things
must take their chance, thought Vizia desperately;
what would have been easy to explain at first
would be difficult to explain now. A few more
minutes of this strange enjoyment, and then — and
then what ? Things need not change ; oh, surely they
would not change !

It is beautiful here in summer," she said, talking
fast ; " when you come to see us then "

In summer I shall be gone."

Gone ! Of course; I forgot that you are a soldier."
Vizia laughed at her own tone of consternation.

And I may have to do a soldier's work soon. I
think we shall fight the Italians in spring."

Who talks of fighting ? " inquired Eogdanovics
from a distant table, where he was employed in drawing
some plans. " Never talk of fighting. It is
against my principles to expect any but the best
things from fate. I am ready to wager that there will
be no such thing as war."

That would be a great disappointment to me," said
Kazimir.

Oh, that is the way your wishes lie ? Well, then,
I am ready to wager you will come back covered with
glory and decorations," and Eogdanovics reapplied

himself to the finishing touches of his plan, which
marked a row of future glass-houses, wherein pineapples
and muscatel grapes were destined to grow and
thrive in a degree hitherto undreamed of, except in
Eogdanovics's sanguine brain.

That will do, I think," he said, laying down his
pencil. " The melon-beds in front, and the vineries
behind. I had thought of building an extensive
conservatory too ; the flowers would have realised a
round sum at the Lwow market. But I am afraid I
must wait ; there does not seem to be much chance of
the railway passing through here just at present."

Nor for another century either," said Vizia.

That reminds me," said Kazimir, rising, " I have
brought that flower for you, Mademoiselle Vizia ; I
must have left it in the sledge."

Only just this moment had Kazimir remembered
the unfortunate azalea which Lucyan had so carefully
wrapped in silver paper. What was an azalea to him ?
He could not know that Vizia, looking for the promised
flower when he entered, had sighed with disappointment
at seeing him empty-handed ; and he as little
noticed the light of pleasure which came to her face
now.

Don't trouble yourself to go out," she said.

What ! Go out 1 Who wants to go out ? " echoed
Kosdanovics from his distant table.

Only to fetch a parcel," said Kazimir.

It is so likely I should let you fetch it for yourself,"
retorted the host, striding towards the door.
What is your parcel like ? Round ? Square ? Oblong?
Short?"

Please do not move," said Kazimir, as he reached
the door before his host. " I hear some one in the
passage ; perhaps it is a servant. Ah ! "

As he opened the door the handle was at the same
moment turned at the other side. Kazimir heard a
rustle of silk, and found himself closely confronted by
a lady — a young lady — a beautiful young lady ! He
reached this conclusion with a bound.

It had taken all this time to array Xenia in that
long-trained, close-fitting silk, swelling in balloon-like
fashion all around her — for this was the time of crinolines
— and to encase that chestnut hair in a mauve
chenille net, which did its best to conceal what it was
supposed to be adorning ; but through the lattice-work
the glossy waves shone, like sunbeams escaping from
prison bars. Such, at least, was Kazimir' s impression,
in this first bewildered moment, although the simile
would scarcely have stood investigation. Ribbons to
match the net, and fringed out in some incomprehensibly
feminine fashion, fluttered at her waistbands and
wrists. There was an artificial rosebud nestling at her
throat. Her silk was a slighter and a shabbier one than

Vizia's, and the mixture of colours was not strictly in
accordance with a severe taste ; nevertheless, both the
silk and the ribbons, and even the artificial rosebud,
seemed imbued with a certain subtle grace which
came from the wearer alone. For the matter of that,
she might have worn a tartan shawl and a poke
bonnet without looking vulgar.

"I have found her!" was Kazimir's inward cry.
Not for a moment did he doubt her identity. What
had been a mere passing recollection in the other, was
certitude here. Here were the very same eyes that
had looked into his through the falling snow ; that was
the shining hair which had been blown rough by the
unmannerly wind. The interest which, although keen
at first, had been gradually weakening with the lapse
of days, leapt back into full life all at once. He need
no longer grope after uncertain clues, for he had found
herself.

It all shot through his mind while he inclined himself
profoundly, and while Xenia went through a
curtsey, quite as graceful but quite as ceremonious as
the one she had executed in the snow at the hill-top.

Mademoiselle Xenia Rogdanovics ! "

Kazimir's first impulse was to look reproachfully
towards Vizia. " You told me you had no sister ! "

Vizia was leaning forward, with her hands clasped,
as she watched the scene by the doorway. " I have no

sister; Xenia is my cousin." Her voice had stiffened
back into her first tone of rigid ceremony, but Kazimir
scarcely noticed it.

Her cousin Xenia ! So this was Xenia ; that was
how he had made the mistake. How could he have
been so stupid ? Why had he taken for granted that
they must be sisters ?

There was now a scene of general recognition and
hand - shaking, Kazimir being acknowledged as the
saviour in the snowstorm.

What a fearful storm it was ! " said Kazimir to
Xenia, who had sat down demurely beside her cousin,
and who had not uttered a word as yet.

Yes, it was a little windy," she replied, with an air
of great gravity. The silvery voice was clouded, not
with an unbecoming grating hoarseness, but as though
wrapped in a soft veil.

Very windy," echoed Vizia ; and Kazimir wondered
why he had not found out before that she talked as if
she had just swallowed a woollen comforter. This is
another point on which nature indulges in unjust
caprices. A cold may be becoming or unbecoming,
according to its symptoms ; and Kazimir now for the
first time became aware that the symptoms of Vizia's
cold were not becoming. The same cause which had
afflicted her with watery eyes and a heightened colour
of nose, had given Xenia an interesting little cough,

and but delicately touched the small fine-cut nostrils
into the semblance of a pink-tipped flower. Moreover,
Vizia's cold had been gradually getting worse, while
Xenia's had been getting better.

I am afraid you must have suffered a great deal
from the snow ? "

Thank you ; it was not very pleasant, was it,
Yizia ? " and Xenia looked appealingly at her cousin.

It must have been a dreadful fatigue to you to getup
that hill ? "

I don't think the walking was very good."

jSTo, hardly," thought Kazimir, as he remembered
the style of his progress uphill, weighed down on each
side by clinging hands.

It was not that Xenia was forgetful of these facts,
or ungrateful to her preserver. This little prim fencing
was but the tribute paid to that tyrant Etiquette.
She w 7 as still at the pale kid-glove stage of acquaintanceship
with him ; Yizia had had the start of her in
that respect. Affectation and primeval simplicity are
nowhere more successfully blended than in this country.

I hope you changed your wet shoes," said Kazimir,
earnestly.

It was Xenia's duty to look surprised, and she fulfilled
it ; but, though the pink-tipped flower was raised
perceptibly, Kazimir could not fail to see that the eyes
were not displeased.

I suppose you have not attempted to go out since?"

Oh no, I never go out in winter, except when I
must. Do I, Yizia ? "

Then it was necessity which brought you to the
foot of that hill ? "

Yes ; it was a ball we had been to."

You are fond of dancing ? "

Oh, very ! " She did not need to look at her
cousin for assistance here. The crimson lips opened
in a smile, the first smile which she had yet allowed
herself. Her whole face lighted up with pleasure, for
Xenia was only seventeen, and at seventeen dancing is
a word with magic in it.

You surely cannot get much of it here ? "

Not here ; but I danced at Krakow last year. I
went to — Yizia, was it three or four balls ? "

Three," said Yizia, drily.

"Happy Krakow!" thought Kazimir, as he watched
her pretty air of childish triumph. " How dull Lod-nisi
must seem to you ! "

Yes, I think it does ; and I have never lived in
the country before. The days are so long here."

How do you spend them?" asked Kazimir, moving
his chair a quarter of an inch nearer.

Xenia looked at her cousin, as if she would prefer
Yizia to answer for her, but Yizia held her tongue.

I play the piano, and then I read."

Music and literature ! The very pursuits he would
have chosen for her ; innocent, refined, and intellectual.

Is it poetry or prose that you prefer ? "

"Oh, I think I— I read both!"

The field was widening. Could he not read poetry
in the blue light of her eyes ?

Which are your favourite authors ? "

Xenia looked staggered. " Oh, I don't know, I am
not sure."

I understand. You have so many favourites that
it is difficult to choose. Do you care for Mickiervicz's
poems?"

I think rather ; but I read French usually. The
last thing I read was by Seraphina de la Moliere."

Seraphina de la Moliere had no place in Kazimir's
memory.

What was the story called ? Perhaps I may
remember it."

It was called ' Les deux agues mysterious, ou les
Fiancailles de Palmerieie.' "

I am afraid I have not heard of it," said Kazimir,
blankly.

Of course not," suddenly put in Vizia. ' You are
not likely to read the ' Journal des Demoiselles.' "

But the story is very interesting," said Xenia,
eagerly.

It is not finished yet. I am so anxious for the

end to come. It just broke off when Palmerieie discovers
the will of her great-grandfather hidden inside
the sapphire ring which she has worn all her life ; so,
of course, now she has got an immense fortune, and I
want to know whether she marries Alphonse or Raoul."

And what is there inside the second ring V

"I don't know; because you see that dreadful
Barbarin, who is really Palnierie's half-brother (although
she has not found that out yet), and who
has murdered all the rest of the family, has buried
the ring in a deep cave strewn with bones."

The bones of the murdered family, perhaps ? "
suggested Kazimir ; but he was all wrong, it seemed.

"Oh no — for the cave was in a quite different
place ; somewhere in the Alps, or — Vizia, was it the
Pyrenees ? "

The Pyrenees, probably, since it is in Spain,"
said Vizia, curtly.

But surely either Alphonse or Raoul will find this
out ?"

I hope so ; but I am afraid they are going to
have another duel with pistols : they have had two
duels already."

I see ; and all about Palmerieie ?"

Yes, all about Palmerieie."

It must be an engrossing story ; I hope you will
let me know the end."

vol. i. I

Oh yes, if you like." The demure reticence of
Xenia's manner was fast giving way to childish confidence.
Alphonse, Raoul, Palmerieie, and her iniquitous
brother Barbarin, had all helped towards this end.
No wonder that Kazimir felt disposed in their favour.
This was enough on the subject of literature ; Kazimir
turned to the second branch of Xenia's pursuits.

You said you were fond of music ; do you swear
by Mendelssohn or Beethoven ?"

Was it they who wrote the sonata about sunshine
—or moonshine ? " asked Xenia, grasping at the most
distinct idea which Kazimir's question awoke in her
mind.

Yes ; that is to say, one of them did — I am not
quite sure which," said Kazimir, frankly. " But perhaps
you are too true a Pole to play anything but
Chopin?"

"What is Chopin like?"

Well, he looks very black upon paper, but he is
very delightful to listen to ; that is all I know."

I think I like Strauss best ; does Chopin write
waltzes?"

Yes, I fancy he does ; he is a great favourite.
Every one admires him, and Poles adore him ; I am
sure Mademoiselle Vizia adores him."

Vizia appeared not to have heard ; she was twirling
a ring round her finger.

"Perhaps you are not as ultra national as your
cousin. Mademoiselle Yizia has confessed to having
felt a great prejudice against my uniform at first ! "

Vizia, where are you going ? " asked Xenia, distressed,
for her cousin had risen and was moving away.
Please stay near me ! " said the pleading blue eyes ;
but their pleading was not answered.

I am going to fold up papa's plans over there ; "
and she walked to the end of the room.

I am afraid you must have felt the same prejudice
against my gold cords," Kazimir was saying.

"I don't know; why?" asked Xenia. The very
first sight of the hussar cording in the snowstorm
had certainly acted chillingly upon her. She was
taught to believe that it must act chillingly upon her ;
but she had never attempted to analyse the causes
which produced the effect.

Well, but you are a real Pole, and have lived all
your life in Poland," persisted Kazimir, who thought
that a little political discussion, such as he had had
the other day with Vizia, might be very pleasant ; " and
I have found since my return home that my uniform
finds favour nowhere."

Really ? " Xenia leant back on the sofa and
looked a little bored.

Then you do not share the universal prejudice ? "
went on Kazimir, pressing the point.

No, I don't think so ; I find the gold cords very
pretty."

"Do you? but "

"The hussar uniform looks very well in a ballroom,"
broke in Xenia, with a return of animation.

Perhaps," said Kazimir ; and then he felt silenced
for a moment, but only for a moment. " Your cousin
was quite hard upon me the other day for not upholding
revolutions. Are you too a supporter of the
revolution ? "

Xenia leant back again with a pretty shrug of her
shoulder, and pulling a truant curl through her fingers,
" Oh, the revolution ? yes, I know. That was
the time when mamma's diamonds were stolen ; and
we never got them back ; was that not dreadful ? "
Her eyes looked so earnest and innocent, that Kazimir
felt it indeed to be dreadful. It was a shame to have
robbed her of the chance of wearing diamonds.

No, politics would not do : how should this youthful
flower-like creature know anything about fierce
strife and cruel bloodshed? He made an abrupt
transition from this ground back to the often discussed
loneliness of Lodniki, which seemed to him
more cruelly lonely now that he knew it to be her
abode. The transition was successful ; to confide her
fears to a ready listener was just what suited Xenia
best.

Oh, you do not know how frightened I was when
I came here first, a few months ago ! It felt so strange
after Krakow, that I could not sleep when the wind
blew among the trees ; and only two days ago I got
such a fright ! *

"A robber?" said Kazimir, jumping to all sorts of
horrible conclusions.

No, but a fox ! It had come quite up to the house,
and looked in at me through the window. I never
saw such a big fox in my life before ; it had such a
white chest. I don't know, in fact, if I ever saw any
fox before. I think I must have turned quite pale ;"
and at the remembrance of how pale she had turned,
Xenia almost turned pale again.

Frightful ! " ejaculated Kazimir, following her
changes of expression with delight.

"Don't you think it was a great chance that we
were not eaten by wolves on the day of our unlucky
drive in the snow ? "

Unlucky ? do not call it unlucky ! " pleaded Kashmir
; " it was a lucky drive for me."

Xenia dropped her eyes towards the hem of her
dress, but she failed so entirely to make her expression
forbidding, that Kazimir ventured to add that
he should have liked the hill to be six times as high,
and the storm a hundred times as violent, in order to
prolong the pleasure of assisting and protecting her.

Xenia looked up half alarmed — for she was so very
young, and so entirely inexperienced, that she had
scarcely yet got accustomed to receiving compliments ;
and this one, somehow, sounded more real than any
of the few which she had chanced to hear. She looked
uneasily towards her cousin for guidance, but she was
spared the necessity of doing anything decided, for
just now Pawel had entered and placed a little parcel
on the table. Kazimir pulled the silver paper open.

Ah, a flower, a pink azalea ; how pretty ! but you
have not treated it well ; look ! " as two or three pink
blossoms dropped on the table.

Do you think it pretty ? "

Of course Xenia thought it pretty, lovely, adorable.
She doted upon flowers — upon azaleas in general, and
upon pink azaleas in particular ; and of course in another
moment this particular pink azalea was nestling
in her waist-band.

Shortly after this Kazimir's sledge came round to
the door. The talk with Xenia had been followed
by some general conversation. Kazimir had learnt
the difference between camellias and azaleas. He had
also remembered with a start, that the flower he had
brought with him in silver paper, had been destined
for Vizia and not for Xenia. This he had remembered
at the moment of parting, when he saw Vizia's
face, and he had immediately apologised for his forgetfulness.

" It does not matter after all, because,
you see, it was not the right flower," he had said.

Of course not," she had answered, rather scornfully,
as it had struck him. He did not know that
whether it were called azalea or camellia, it would have
been the right flower for her.

Now he was gone, and the girls stood alone in the
room.

How do you like him, Yizia ? " asked Xenia.

I — I don't know ; not at all ! " She was standing
at the window, with her forehead pressed hard against
the glass, watching the sledge through the frozen
pane.

I thought he was very nice," Xenia ventured ;
then looked down and smiled, while she played with
the flower in her belt. " He did talk some nonsense,
of course. Did you hear all he said about wishing
that the hill had been higher and the storm stronger
the other night ? "

No answer ; only a sort of gasp from the window
embrasure.

But you must have heard it," said Xenia, again.

Why should 1 care what he said to you ? "

« But, Vizia "

I wish you would stop chattering," cried Vizia,
turning almost violently from the window. At sight
of her face the timid Xenia shrank to one side.

Vizia, what have I done % " she implored ; and
how sweet her voice sounded after the other's ungracious
tone ! " You are angry about something ; is
it the azalea ? " with a bright inspiration. " It was
meant for you ; won't you have it ? " and she plucked
it from her belt and held it out to her cousin.
Won't you have it, Vizia ? "

It was done graciously and lovingly, for Xenia
loved her cousin ; but it would seem that this proffer
of the olive-branch had been the last thing wanting
to upset Vizia's equanimity. She took the azalea
indeed which Xenia pressed into her hand, but it
was only to throw it to the ground and stamp it
under foot, crushing the life out of the two frail
blossoms which had survived their brethren.

There let them lie and die, since her dream was
dead — short-lived dream that it had been !

Meanwhile Kazimir was driving home through the
forest. It was a much colder drive than his former
one ; but to Kazimir's eyes, nevertheless, the world
was a more brilliant place than it had ever before
been.

Xenia ! what a sweet, soft-sounding name ! How
exactly it suited her delicate beauty, her childish
openness of character ! And all the way home the

name rang in his ears ; and the russet twigs of the
bushes made him think of chestnut-brown hair ; and
the patches of blue sky overhead — much less blue
than last time, but to him brighter — shone down on
him like innocent blue eyes.

CHAPTER VIII.

I do remember an apothecary,—
And hereabouts he dwells."

Romeo and Juliet.

Tiif.y must be either poisoned, trapped, or shot —
that is clear," was the phrase which met Kazimir's ear
as he reached home.

Poisoned, trapped, or shot ! In heaven's name,
Lucyan, who ? "

Lucyan was standing at the foot of the door-steps,
very carefully wrapped up ; and the expression of
fierce vindictiveness on his face made Kazimir start
almost more than the words he had said. It was a
very wide leap which his own thoughts had to take,
from the dreamy direction they had been following,
to this abrupt talk of poisoning and shooting.

What is the matter, Lucyan ? "

Lucyan unmuffled one arm, and pointed silently
in the direction of the flower-beds; and Kazimir,

straining his eyes through the dusk, could see nothing
but a little scattered straw.

My best Niphetos rose; or is it the Paul Verdier?"
went on Lucyan, peering anxiously towards the scattered
straw. " I would give — yes, I would give fifty
kreutzers to know." Lucyan always was moderate in
his expenditure, even in imagination.

Why don't you go and look then ? " asked
Kazimir.

And wade up to my knees in snow ! No, thank
you. I respect my boots too much for that. Perhaps
traps would be better than poison."

But what are they, in the name of wonder ? "

Foxes, of course ! " Lucyan pronounced the word
with an accent of concentrated hatred.

Foxes ! Oh, is it foxes again ? " Kazimir began
to show a sudden interest. " They have been frightening
her by looking in at the window. Yes, they must
be shot or trapped by all means. I will help you."

It was Lucyan's turn to stare. He looked at his
brother very keenly as he asked, " And who may she
be?"

She ! Oh, Lucyan ! have I not told you ? It is
she herself. I have found her! I will tell you all
about it."

Lucyan had no objection to being told all about it,
but he had an objection to being told all about it in

the cold. They went in ; and Kazimir talked, while
Luc) T an listened. Kazimir's nature was not one to
attempt any concealment, nor was he as yet aware
that there was anything to conceal. Presently some
word of his seemed to have touched Lucyan's interest.

Would you mind repeating that again, Kazimir ? "
asked Lucy an, raising his head. " I did not quite
catch that,"

About the colour of her hair ? Just a shade
lighter than "

Not about the colour of her hair," and Lucyan put
out his hand with a deprecating gesture ; " but about
the value of the wood cut down on the estate."

Twelve hundred," said Kazimir, " or it may have
been fifteen hundred ; I really can't remember."

I don't see how there could be so much wood to
cut down on the Lodniki estate ; it is a small place."

Oh, but Eogdanovics has rented another estate
besides the one he has bought. He has got Szybalin
also ; she mentioned having driven there once."

Lucyan took his ivory comb from his pocket, and
commenced slowly and gently drawing it through his
hair.

You did not tell me that before ? "

Didn't I ? What does it signify ? "

It would need to be a rich man who rented
Szybalin."

Well, I have no doubt he is rich ; he looks like it,
and he told me so, in fact."
"Ah!"
'sand if all his plans succeed, he will be richer

yet."

So he has let his own estate, and he has bought
Lodniki and rented Szybalin," summed up Lucyan,
compressing the matter into a nutshell, for his own
satisfaction. " And he has only got one daughter ;
but what is the niece there for ? "

She told me she had no other home ; she is an
orphan."

A poor relation," said Lucyan, mentally, but he
did not say it aloud.

Next day the horses were brought over to Wowa-
sulla, and the bargain was finally concluded ; for it was
a strange fact that, from the moment of his second
visit to Lodniki, Kazimir had been quite unable to see
any defects either in the build or the paces of those
horses. To his eyes there was a halo hovering round
them, which had never hovered round any other horses.
It was only natural that he should be anxious to"
report upon their progress to Eogdanovics, for Eogdan-
ovics had particularly asked to be told how they goton.
He was told ; once, twice, oftener still — oftener,
perhaps, than was absolutely necessary. He must
have been fully satisfied on their account, for during

the whole of December the Wowasulka sledge might
frequently have been seen wending its way towards
Lodniki. " I promised him to come, you know,"
Kazimir explained to Lucy an, who had not asked for
any explanation; and Lucyan smiled, and examined
his faultless almond-shaped nails, while he listened to
the narrative of his brother's visits, dropping a question
now and then, and quietly reading Kazimir's
hand over the edge of his cards. Kazimir talked
much at random, touching upon many subjects which
sounded trivial. He talked about dance-music and
the ' Journal des Demoiselles ' ; he talked also a great
deal about foxes — about one giant fox in particular,
which was wont to prowl round the house at Lodniki.
Kazimir was accustomed to talk as if he thirsted for
the blood of that giant fox. " The very same, I am
certain, that looked in through the window and frightened
Mademoiselle Xenia."

"And the same, most likely, that steals Mademoiselle
Vizia's chickens," said Lucyan.

Perhaps ; I don't know." The other crime was by
far the blackest ; to have looked in through a window
was deeper guilt than to have carried off a chicken.

During this month Madame Bielinska's health
showed some slight improvement, and when Christmas
was past and the new year turned, she was once or
twice moved from her room to the general sitting-room.

Her sons could not help feeling more hopeful
when they saw her once again among them. The
doctor cautiously admitted that this unexpected revival
might or might not be the first step towards
ultimate recovery. He proposed two plans which
might further the recovery ; one was a sea journey to
Australia, the other was a farinaceous food with a
wonderful name. Madame Bielinska, whose nerves
were weak though her judgment was so strong, greatly
preferred the farinaceous food to the sea voyage. The
farinaceous food carried the day.

The apothecary at Tarajow is sure to have it," the
doctor had said.

Tarajow was the nearest country place ; it lay about
five miles to the north, not through the forest, but
across the open country.

We must send for it this afternoon," said Kazimir,
that same day.

They were sitting together in the drawing-room
around the invalid, who was propped up on her
pillows.

Sending for it won't be enough," said Lucyan,
somewhat incomprehensibly.

It is sure to put you all right, mother," proceeded
Kazimir ; " you are looking quite well already."

She is looking too well," observed Eobertine,
darkly. This resurrection into life was altogether a

sore trial to Eobertine ; there was too much openness
and publicity about it. If she could have had her
will, even the simplest of household transactions
should have been enveloped in impenetrable mystery.
She would have loved to throw an enshrouding veil
over the very food they lived on, the servants who
waited on them, and the tradesmen who supplied them.
In how far higher a degree, therefore, should mystery
reign in a sick-chamber ! The sick-chamber had been
Eobertine s field almost since she had come to the age
of reason; and from the moment when she had resigned
all matrimonial hopes, which, owing to her more than
ample share of the Bielinski nose, had never been very
great, it had been more than this, it had been her
kingdom. She recognised it as her vocation in life,
and she nursed her patients unremittingly, energetically,
and uncompromisingly. The darkened space,
the scented atmosphere, the hushed steps and whispering
voices of the sick-room, suited her mystery-loving
nature, as subterraneous labyrinths suit the
darkness-loving mole. They satisfied her peculiarities,
and they fed them, until her special phase of eccentricity
had grown into a distinct mania. She defended
Madame Bielinska against her sons, as if the sick
woman's life depended on isolation. Of the three, she
dreaded Kazimir most, and feared Lucyan the least ;
for although Lucyan did find his way to the sick-room

oftener than either of the others, he did so in a manner
which won her heart and soothed her alarm. Tacitly
he had proved a sort of ally, for he helped to keep ont
other people.

These being Kobertine's sentiments, it will be easy
to guess, bnt difficult to describe, what she suffered
on seeing her carefully guarded patient exposed thus
openly to the light of the day. In fact the sight
was so painful to her that she usually preferred to
absent herself from the circle.

Sending for it will not be enough," repeated Lucyan.

Why should sending not be enough ? " asked
Kazimir of his brother.

Because the apothecary at Tarajow is an ass."

How do you know he is an ass ? " asked Marcin,
unexpectedly.

How do you know he is not ? Marcin ! you setting
up for giving an opinion ! "

Well," said Kazimir, " most asses are at least able
to read a name if it is written large enough."

Not such a name as Neuroyoeticon. You don't
know the man ; when you write for a cooling drink
he is sure to send you a remedy for hydrophobia. I
believe we have got three of those remedies in the
house at this moment. No ; somebody would need
to drive over and speak to him about it."

Very well," said Kazimir, " which of us shall go ? "
VOL. I. K

I will go ! "

Everybody in the room, the invalid included, turned
and stared at Marcin aghast. It was he who had
spoken. He was offering to drive over to Tarajow
and see about the medicine. Such a thing had not
occurred within anybody's memory. In the abstract,
certainly, there is nothing particularly startling in the
idea of a full-grown man of twenty-five driving five
miles in a sledge to fetch a bottle of medicine.
Marcin was a full-grown man of twenty-five ; he had
long ago reached and passed the age of reason, in
the ordinary acceptation of the word ; neither was
he exactly a fool, but for the practical sides of life
he was as helpless as if his age had been five, instead
of five-and-twenty. He had never been known to
receive a letter in his life ; and on the solitary occasion
when he had been known to send one off, it had
been despatched open, unstamped and unaddressed.
Marcin would have much rather gone without a coat
than have taken the trouble to order it for himself ;
he would not have known how to enter a shop, or
address the showman, or explain what he wanted.
He could not have attempted to ask for the change
of a florin ; probably he would not know what the
change ought to be. Putting the case that he could
have gained a million by travelling to Vienna, he
would most certainly have remained quietly at Wowa-

sulla. The bare idea of having to take his ticket
and register his luggage, would have been quite
enough to deter him from the enterprise.

After the first universal exclamation, there was a
moment of stupefied silence. Then —

You will never reach Tarajow ! "

You will be lost on the way ! "

I don't believe we shall ever see you back ! "

Madame Bielinska was so touched by the unlooked-for
mark of filial affection, that, in her weak state, the
emotion came near to overpowering her. There were
symptoms of tears in her voice.

Marcin sat passive through it all, without once
changing his position.

Come, Marcin, this is too delightful ! " said Lucyan,
bursting into one of his long but noiseless laughs.
I do believe you will be offering to keep my accounts
for me next. Why, we should have to hunt for you
all over the country this evening."

Marcin's temper was faultless, as a rule ; but something
must have ruffled it now.

Why are you all trying to take the spokes out of
my wheels ? " he inquired rather loftily.

I do wish you would steer clear of proverbs,
metaphors, and all figures of speech," remarked Lucyan,
with a smile ; " it would be an advantage to
yourself and to others."

"They are the only sort of thing I have got a
memory for," answered the other, still on his dignity.
They save so much trouble, and they make things
clearer."

And you really want to go ? We might try it as
an experiment ; don't you think so, Kazimir 1 "

The novelty of the idea gave to it a flavour of originality.
It was decided that Marcin should go ; and
that he should bring back the farinaceous food for his
mother as well as the traps for the foxes.

At one side of the three-cornered Place at Tarajow,
with a Katusz (town-hall) to the left and a burnt-down
house to the right, stood the apothecary's residence.
The Eatusz was dirtier, both inside and outside,
than most English cowsheds ; the burnt-down
house had been reduced to ashes eight months ago,
and had very little chance of ever rising from them.
Three worn stone steps led up to the apothecary's
shop ; and up to the lowest of these steps the stone
pavement swelled in undulating billows.

Over the scene were scattered the usual groups of
peasants in their brown sieralcs, and Jews in slim black
kaftans. In front of the apothecary's shop there
stood a sledge, and a bell tinkled now and then, as
one horse and now the other tossed his head.

Marcin having traversed the open country, passed
the wooden church on the outskirts, and bumped over

the billowy pavement of the place, reached his destination
safely; the slip of paper which Lucyan had
given him was securely buttoned up in his pocket.
He walked up the three steps and into the shop. Sofar
everything was progressing splendidly.

The apothecary was mixing something in a mortar,
while a peasant, with his fur cap in his hand, stood
at a respectful distance watching the proceeding, and
breathing very hard as he did so. The apothecary
was a sort of magician to him, and those bottles and
shelves, and labelled drawers and ticketed cases, were
the secrets of his magic. The perfume which the
sheepskin coat added to the already laden atmosphere
was the reverse of refreshing, and Marcin thought
so as he entered. At the view of this new and
distinguished customer, the magician abandoned his
magic mixture and commenced a series of inquiring
bows across the counter. To these Marcin paid
no attention, but sank exhausted on the nearest
chair.

Can I offer you anything ? " asked the apothecary,
who was a small, dismal, and rather dishevelled-looking
man, but who moved more briskly than dismal men
usually do. He waved his arm suggestively towards
his shelves, where jars, with such enticing labels as
"rhubarb," "sulphur' and "camomile" were ranged.
Martin's eyes roamed over them, and settled down

upon a little row of soda-water syphons. "You can
give me some of that," he said.

Some of the senna-tea ? In a moment' and he
moved with gloomy alacrity towards it.

No, not that stuff," said Marcin ; he had some
faint reminiscences connected with senna-tea, which
dated from his childhood and were not pleasant. " I
mean that soda over there: soda and water."

Soda-water ? In a moment ! "

Jan Wronski, the apothecary, was by no means
quick of thought ; he was in fact remarkably slow
perhaps because all his available faculties were
wrapped, and had for years been wrapped, round one
especial object. Some people go through life with an
ideal, a dream, a something for which their ambition
strives, but never reaches, and some people go through
life without this : Jan Wronski went through life
with a dream ; and his dream was hydrophobia — or
rather, I should say, the specific against it. From the
moment that his young wife had died from the bite of
a mad dog, mad dogs had literally become the betes
noires of his life. On this one point he was a little
crazy, although perfectly sane, stupidly sane on every
other. He bought all the works which had ever been
written on hydrophobia; he started correspondences
(which nobody carried on) in newspapers about hydrophobia
; he kept a register of all dogs which had

died of hydrophobia within ten miles round ; he made
journeys to inspect interesting cases ; he concocted
mixtures and ointments, some of which he called
preventives, and others remedies. For nearly twenty
years past he had, at intervals of three or four years,
solemnly announced that the grand specific, which
was to make hydrophobia for ever harmless, was discovered
; but as yet there was only one case on record
of a bitten child being cured, and even then it was
more than doubtful whether the dog had ever been
mad. He was not particularly hopeful about his own
project, but having once got into the idea, he was notable
to get out of it. There was something very ludicrous
and also something rather pathetic in the blind
obstinacy with which this stupid, dismal, long-haired
old apothecary groped after his Will-o'-the-wisp.

He was, as I have said, remarkably slow of thought ;
but, nevertheless, at this moment there did dawn upon
his understanding some conception of incongruity.
It struck even him as peculiar that a gentleman
should drive over in a sledge to ask for a glass of
soda-water, on a day when the icicles were hanging ina
hard clear fringe from his roof. In summer he was
used to do a brisk business with his syphons. To
come in here and drink a glass of soda-water towards
sunset was considered fashionable and correct ; and
the importance of deciding between raspberry and

lemon juice, as accompanying flavours, was quite
enough excitement for the unsophisticated beauties
of Tarajow. The trade naturally slackened with the
heat, and now had died off into a winter sleep, only
disturbed when now and then a case of high fever
came within Jan Wronski's limited jurisdiction.

When Marcin had drunk his first glass, which he
did very slowly, he asked for a second. He drank it
with his eyes roaming round the shelves and towards
the door w T which led to the apothecary's back shop.
Then he asked for a third glass. The apothecary
looked alarmed. Was not this a case of high fever ?
or, no — rather was not this —

Pan Bielinski did not happen to meet any dogs on
the way?" inquired the apothecary rather suddenly,
but very respectfully. The uninitiated might suppose
that this abnormal thirst shut out all idea of hydrophobia
; but Jan Wronski knew better. The very
newest theories inclined to the belief that excessive
water-drinking was one of the surest symptoms of the
malady.

I never meet dogs," said Marcin, with unusual
decision, and he drained his third glass very slowly.
While he was draining it the back door opened, and
there came in Janina Wronska, the apothecary's only
daughter. She was carrying a tray, on which some
dried herbs were lying in heaps.

Do you wish for a fourth glass ? " asked the
apothecary, in perfect good faith.

No, thank you. What are those brown things on
the tray ? "

They are dried flowers, from which we make tea.
Do you wish to taste any of our tea ? "

Does Panna Janina make the tea ? "

It did not strike the apothecary as strange that this
gentleman should know his daughter's name. Such
circumstances never struck him at all. He was not
an unkind father ; but yet his daughter only had
interest for him inasmuch as she might or might not
be bitten by a mad dog, and that, in the former case,
he might or might not be able to cure her. She was a
little creature, not broader than became her stature,
with coal-black hair, dishevelled like her father's,
gleaming black eyes, and a full baby-mouth, with a
perpetual pout upon it. That she was young could
be seen by the way in which she reddened on seeing
a gentleman in the shop ; and how full of life she was
became evident by the way in which she set down the
tray of herbs on the counter, sending the dried stalks
flying away on all sides.

Of course I make the tea," said Janina, tossing
her black head, and sweeping the herbs together again
with one little plump brown hand. " I should like
to know who would do it if I did not ! "

Ah, who indeed ! " Marcin seemed to have become
infected with the desire of proving himself helpful,
for his hand was on the edge of the tray too.
The thin white fingers came against the plump brown
ones and lingered there. Jan Wronski was meanwhile
weighing out alum and borax for another
customer.

Are you going away ? " asked Marcin, as Janina
seized upon two stone jars and made for the door.

Yes ; I have no time for idling. I am going to
the back-shop."

I have no time for idling either," said Marcin.
Janina's hands were too full to open the door ; Marcin
opened it for her, and shut it for her too, and
then found to his surprise that he was on the same
side of the door as she. He had made his audacious
movement so unconsciously and so coolly, that Jan
Wronski never noticed his disappearance.

How strange ! " said Marcin, looking round him.

What have you come here for ? " demanded Janina,
depositing her jars, and turning round upon him
with a great show of indignation.

I cannot in the least imagine."

Hadn't you better try and find out ? " The little
snub nose was considerably elevated.

I like back shops."

I don't believe you have ever been in one."

"No, never."

Then hadn't you better go out again ? "

I like this back shop."

But I never invited you into it."

I think it was because it was so hot in there."

Cold, I suppose you mean. It is much warmer inhere."


Much. How truly you speak ! "

Will you go back to the front shop ? " stormed the
little vixen, stamping her foot on the ground, in order
to call his attention to the fact that she had black
velvet boots on.

I don't think so," said Marcin, gazing down at the
black velvet feet. It was a delightfully new sensation
for him to be stamped at. He sat down on the
only arm-chair in the room, and prepared to make
himself at home. His immovable limpness often
gained points which another man's energy would
have lost.

Janina turned her back upon him, and began making
a great noise and bustle with jars, bottles, medicine-spoons,
and everything within reach. It was always
her way to make a noise with whatever she touched,
and it was remarkable what a variety of clattering
and rattling sounds she managed to get out of glass
and china; even harmless-looking pasteboard boxes
seemed to become noisy under her hands. She began

dividing off some powders, and folding them in papers.
Marcin looked on admiringly. It made him feel
rather giddy to see any one move about so quickly
as she did. It seemed to him, in a sort of indefinite
way, that she was a mixture of lightning, quicksilver,
gunpowder, express trains, and everything else in
the world which conveys an idea of rapidity and
exclusiveness.

Of course she was delighted that he should be there,
and, of course, she was quite resolved that he should
not get back into the front shop just yet ; but a little
show of resistance was more dignified, as well as more
exciting. She went on with her work as if resolved
to ignore his presence and existence. The room they
were in looked out on a narrow courtyard, where stood
a snow-covered summer-house, and where also hens
and geese stalked about on the frozen ground.

When Marcin had sat admiring for nearly two
minutes, he said, " Why were you not in church last
Sunday ? "

Oh, you are here still, are you ? " remarked Janina,
over her shoulder.

Why were you not in church ? "

I don't go to church to see you."

But I go to see you."

Without turning round, she shrugged her shoulders,
and burst out singing —

11 Ne too jdu cerkowci Bouse molyty,
Lys too jdu do cerkowci, na lubka dzwyty,
Oj pzdu ja do cerkowci stand pit obrazy,
Podzwlin se raz na pope, na lubku tzy racy. "
(I go not in the church to pray ; I go to look at my love. I stand
before the holy pictures, and look once at the priest, and three times
at my love.)

How nice ! " said Marcin. " Songs save so many
explanations. Won't you teach me to sing ? "

Janina looked round, and the perpetual pout became
a decided one.

What a question to put to a stranger ! You hardly
know me a bit."

I have known you all my life."

Ha, ha, ha ! " she laughed, with the abruptness of
a bomb. It was a very hearty childish laugh; but
still it was shrill, and it pierced Marcin's sensitive
ears. " Just listen to that ! You have seen me twice
exactly, I believe."

Perhaps : you are always right."

And perhaps you will never see me again."

"Perhaps." All this time he was staring at her
steadfastly and without intermission ; and all this
time, in the midst of her pouts and her head-tossing,
she never for a moment paused in the business of her
powder-making. Now she dropped him a curtsey
quite as unexpected as her laugh, and said, with
mock gratitude —

Thank you, Pan Bielinski ! "

How nice ! But don't call me Pan Bielinski. I
am tired of that."

What am I to call you ? "

I don't know."

What do they call you at home ? "

Marcin."

Then I will call you Marcin."

How nice ! "

Janina held her tongue for a minute after this. She
had done her part, and it was clearly his turn to say
something now. But instinct told her quickly that
with this sort of man one must take the initiative ; so,
after a moment, and with a shy glance from under her
eyelashes, she asked, "And what are you going to call
me ? "

I don't know. I can't call you Marcin also,
can I ? "

But you might call me Janina."

Thank you, Marcin, I mean Janina ! "

Another flash of black lightning scathed the willing
victim.

Why don't you help me with these papers ? Don't
you see how busy I am ? "

Help ! " repeated Marcin, with a faint smile.

Yes, help ! Do you never help people ? "

No, never. Life is too short for that." No one,

since the commencement of his existence, had ever
asked Marcin to do as much as pick up a pin, and
now this audacious little creature was actually asking
him to help her with papers and powders.
The experience was so new that it tickled his fancy.
He drew his chair to the table and received his
instructions.

"You are to put these powders into blue paper, and
these into white. Do you understand ? "

Not at all ! "

Of course you cannot understand, if you look at
me instead of at the powders. There is my father
coming."

Jan Wronski, having disposed of the commoner customers,
had suddenly awoke to the fact that his distinguished
customer had disappeared in some mysterious
and inexplicable fashion. He had certainly not
gone out by the front door, for the sledge with the
shivering horses still stood before the house. He
would consult Janina ; but entering the back shop for
this purpose, he found not only Janina but also the
distinguished visitor filling powders into paper.

Pan Bielinski came in here because he was so
cold," explained Janina, sitting ostentatiously demure,
with her eyes on the powders. She looked such a
good, dutiful, and well-behaved little girl as she
said it.

Pan Bielinski's alterations from heat to cold must
have been rapid, to judge from the three glasses of soda-water
a little time ago. For a moment Jan Wronski's
suspicions concerning a possible mad dog glimmered
into life again, but died away at the sight of the distinguished
customer's perfect composure of face. Pan
Bielinski was cold? Would he not sit nearer the
stove ? Would he not like a ruff over his feet, or a
cloak over his shoulders ? No ; he preferred to sit
where he was. But at least there must be some more
wood put on.

He is qualifying himself for a medical student,"
put in Janina, unflinchingly, in order to check the flow
of her father's suggestions, " and he is very anxious to
learn how to make powders."

So I see — so I see ; and you can teach that better
than I," said the dismal apothecary, passing his handover
his long hair; "so I shall just go back to a very interesting
treatise I was reading, which throws some quite
new lights upon the treatment of hydrophobia ; " and
Jan Wronski withdrew, having gathered the impression
that young Pan Bielinski was a doctor in embryo,
very earnest about his profession, and in particular
very keen about powders.

There followed a quarter of an hour, during which
Marcin certainly did not learn the system of wrapping

up powders, although he possibly may have learnt
many other things.

You are not cold now, are you, Marcin ? " Janina
asked, with her black-poodle head on one side. She
had talked, and worked, and teased, and laughed the
whole time. Now, for the first time, she took a moment's
rest; and rest consisted in leaning forward with
both her arms on the table. The table was not a very
broad one. Her bold black eyes were gleaming brimful
of life as she looked into his face. If she had not been
so young and so fresh, even Marcin might have discovered
that she was vulgar ; as it was, no such suggestion
threw its shadow over this new sort of enjoyment
he was experiencing.

I am not cold now," he said, and as he said it, it
occurred to him that he had never felt so warm in his
life before. He dropped the powders on the table, and
took hold, instead, of those two little busy brown
hands which lay close by. They fluttered for a moment
in his grasp, and made a pretence of escaping,
and yet the plump fingers were much tighter in their
grasp than the limp white hands. There was fire in
her black eyes — Marcin felt it blazing on him; and
then — and then, he did not at all know how it happened,
— perhaps he only did it by mistake, or perhaps
it was only because the table was so narrow,

VOL. I. L

but certainly he had leant across the table and
kissed her.

The next thing was startling ; for the door burst
open, and there entered Jan Wronski in a state of
high excitement.

The horses are perishing with cold, Pan Bielinski,
just perishing ! "

What horses ? " stammered Marcin, not yet recovered
from surprise at his own conduct, and not at
all certain whether Jan had not been witness of it.

Your horses ; they have been standing for three
quarters of an hour. The coachman says they will
catch their death of cold."

More haste, less speed ! " said Marcin, rather wide
of the mark. " It never does to be in a hurry."

Quite so, Pan Bielinski, especially with powders.' 5

I have learnt a great deal," looking at the back of
Janina's head, which was turned towards them. Perhaps
she was angry ; she had not spoken since.

Good-bye, Panna Janina ! "

Good-bye, Pan Bielinski ! "

No, she was not angry ; this much he had ascertained.


Before he had got through the front shop, Janina
was throwing up her hands in despair over the discovery
that all the powders that should have been in

blue paper were in white, and all those that should
have been in white were in blue.

Is there anything else that I can serve you with? "
asked the apothecary, at the door.

Marcin looked round him for the last time.

Nothing ; yes — perhaps one more glass of soda-water."


CHAPTER IX.

QUEEN OF DIAMONDS.

The Sabbath is a bride and a queen, and in itself more than all the commandments
of the Lord : therefore shall the Jew fitly honour the Sabbath, from
the Friday evening until the evening when the Sabbath is closed." — Talmud
Teaching.

The slip of paper was still safely buttoned up in
Marcin's pocket when he reached home.

Well, Marcin, how did you get on ? "

"Famously ; much better than I hoped."

And where are your purchases ? "

Purchases ? Do you mean the soda-water ? I
didn't bring any back with me."

But, Marcin ! the slip of paper I gave you ; you
have lost it, I suppose ? "

Oh, you mean the trap for my mother ? I found
it was getting rather late, so I "

"Well?"

So I did not "

Did not what ? "

You see, the horses had been standing a long time,"
explained Marcin, apologetically.

Standing where ? " broke in Kazimir, with some
indignation ; but Lucyan remarked calmly : " So you
did not go near the apothecary's after all?"

Oh yes, very near ! "

Lucyan gave a philosophical shrug to his shoulders,
and held his tongue. The long and the short of it was,
that Marcin had been to Tarajow and back, and had
brought neither Neurojpoeticon nor traps for the foxes.

Some days after this Kazimir announced : " I am
going to drive over tomorrow."

Where to ? Tarajow ? "

No, Lodniki. Won't you come with me Lucyan ? "

He had put this question so frequently and so regularly
that it surprised him when this time Lucyan
answered, " Very well, I will go with you tomorrow."
Accordingly Lucyan went, and made acquaintance with
the Eogdanovics household.

There has been very little said as to the precedents
and position of this family, and it now becomes
necessary to say more. The chief particulars, some of
which Kazimir had gathered from Eogdanovics, and
Lucyan in turn elicited from his brother, were briefly
as follows.

At the time when Eogdanovics had been Bogumil
Bielinski's friend — that is, twenty years ago — he had

been comparatively a poor man, but eminently a
wandering man ; leading a sort of gentlemanly vagabond
life ; shifting about from one part of the country
to another ; buying small estates and selling them
again ; renting others and throwing up his lease ; or
effecting speculative exchanges and compromises.
This nomadic existence, he explained to his friends,
was but a preparation for the time when a certain
large and valuable estate in Eussian Poland should
fall to his share by inheritance. This had come to
pass only two years ago ; and now at last he would
be able to air the ambitious schemes with which his
brain was teeming. After passing a year and a half
on this estate, Rogdanovics explained to his friends
that the ground did not lend itself to his plans. No
doubt the control of Russian authorities, which makes
itself felt even in private life and private undertakings,
had unduly oppressed Rogdanovics's free spirit.
Letting the place rather suddenly, he appeared in
East Alicia, where he bought Lodniki, and rented
the neighbouring large farm, Szybalin, threw the Jbwo
together, and began expending his energies upon this
double farm. The large speculative plans in which he
had embarked since his appearance, six months ago,
were beginning to startle the conservative minds of
the small proprietors around. Rumours of a colossal
estate in Russian Poland were fully confirmed by the

grand footing on which, from the first, he had placed
his establishment. Beyond that, they knew very little
about him; or if any one did know anything about
him, it was the Jews ; and the Jews do not give information
gratis.

Foremost among the speculative ideas which had
induced Eogdanovics to settle on this particular spot,
had been the hope of a future railway. On the
strength of this hope he had cheerfully paid a higher
price for Lodniki, and a higher rent for Szybalin, than
would under ordinary circumstances have been asked.

Such a railway really was projected ; but most of
the proprietors around shook their heads at Eog-
danovics's folly, and declared that he might consider
himself lucky if he saw as much as half-a-dozen yards
of rails within the next ten years. In face of all depressing
arguments, Eogdanovics persisted in being-cheerful
about his railway. The more his neighbours
shook their heads the more he rubbed his hands,
and the more fabulous grew the sums which he was
ready to wager, that the railway would be there, engines,
station-masters, tunnels and all, in less than no
time. So confident was he in himself and his projects,
and so firmly convinced that he had hit upon
the right thing at last, that he forswore his nomadic
existence, and sent for his daughter to join him. Vizia
had lived but little with her father ; who, regarding

her rather in the light of an encumbrance, had been
thankful to leave her at Krakow, under the wing of
Madame Torska, a widowed sister of his own. This
widowed sister had a second niece in charge ; for
Xenia, the daughter of a younger Eogdanovics brother,
had lost her home and her parents in early childhood.
The two girls had grown up together, the younger
clinging to the elder with childlike reliance ; the
elder passionately attached to the cousin, whom she
regarded more as a sister than as a cousin, and yet
more as a child than as a sister.

When, therefore, Vizia was called upon to join her
father, the cousins could not be parted; and Xenia,
half dreading the lonely country life, and half anxious
for a change, accompanied Vizia to Lodniki, where for
the present she remained.

This is about the sum total of all that was known
concerning the Eogdanovics household ; and as yet it
had been no one's interest to inquire further. Now,
however, there had come a day on which some one
was moved to ask for more information. It was not
Kazimir — he did not care to look further than blue
eyes and chestnut hair — but, strangely enough, it was
Lucyan.

That visit he paid to Lodniki with his brother was
a long visit ; it was very near dusk when the sledge
turned from the door.

Well, what do you think of her ? " asked Kazimir
eagerly, almost before they were out of earshot.

"What do I think of which of them?" retorted
Lucyan, as he pulled his fur collar up to his ears.

"Oh, of both, of course, I mean," said the other
with a start, and a desperate attempt at manoeuvring ;
and then, by way of being particularly deep, he added,
Mademoiselle Vizia is very agreeable, is she not ? "

Yes, very."

"And don't you think," began Kazimir, but his
voice was drowned in a jingle of bells, as a heavily
laden sledge came tearing towards and past them.

There is the man I want," said Lucyan quickly,
half rising, and putting a hand on the reins which his
brother held. Among that closely packed mass of
black figures, nine or ten in all, he had recognised one,
and the recognition was at that moment particularly
agreeable to him.

Make the horses stand a couple of minutes, Kashmir,"
said Lucyan; " I have something to say to Aitzig
Majulik — something about flower-seeds," he added,
as he stepped out of the sledge. " He is going off to
buy horses in the Bukowina, and may be away some
weeks."

The Jew-laden sledge had shot on some fifty yards,
before, in answer to Lu can's signal, it was able to
draw up. Lucyan, therefore, had to walk back towards

it, and in so doing, he came again within sight of the
Lodniki house. He was near enough to have counted
the window-panes, if he had been so minded, and to
distinguish quite clearly the figures of the two shaggy
watch-dogs at their post ; but the falling dusk drew a
delicate veil over the outlines of everything. Lucyan
must have had his flower-seeds very much more at
heart than he had his boots, if it was for the sake of
the former that he tramped thus through the snow.
But he did not tramp back all the way. As soon
as he had got partially out of sight of the sledge, he
stopped and beckoned to Aitzig Majulik.

The factor had already glided from his seat, and was
plunging onwards through the deep snow — his kaftan
flapping wildly, his skeleton legs making desperate
strides, his corkscrew curls streaming in the wind like
two demented snakes. When he got to the spot where
Lucyan waited, he could only stand and gasp, with the
drops running down his face, and his dirty fur cap
sitting all awry upon his head.

Lucyan waited calmly till he should have recovered
breath, and as soon as he had recovered breath, Aitzig
began panting out something about Saba and the
sunset hour, and that he would most assuredly be
caught on the road by the first stroke of the holy day,
and therefore, still more assuredly, be damned for all
eternity. For this was Friday evening, close upon the

verge of the twenty-four hours during which all
worldly transactions are rigorously forbidden to the
children of Abraham. The nine other children of
Abraham, dangling their long legs on the sledge, were
beginning to beat their breasts at the thought of this
delay. With nine souls on his conscience, no wonder
that Aitzig trembled for his own.

You will reach the town in time," said Lucyan,
if you give this to the driver to help him on faster;"
and at sight of a paper florin, Aitzig's susceptible
conscience experienced a momentary relief, the nine
souls of his brethren became perceptibly lighter in
weight.

What is it the gracious Pan desires ? " he gasped,
still a little short of breath.

Lucyan, perceiving that time pressed, and knowing
that even a paper florin cannot keep a conscience at
bay for ever, quickly fitted himself to circumstances.

You know that family, of course," he said, making
a slight movement with his head towards the house.

I know that family," assented Aitzig, on his guard
at once, and from under his deep eyebrows watching
his questioner with that mixture of suspicion and
cunning which is never absent from a Jew, even a
Jew trembling for the salvation of his soul.

And all about them ? "

Some things about them, noble Pan," said Aitzig,

in an abject tone, giving one pull to each of his curls ;
some little things does poor old Aitzig know about
them. If you said to me, What is the amount of
silver forks that they keep in that house ? I can give
you the exact number written on paper ; and if you
ask me, Of what sort are the servants that they
have in that family ? I will answer you that among
the servants is a cook who is always drunk ; and if
you "

Silence ! " said Lucyan ; and though he did not
raise his voice to say it, the tone was enough to silence
the Jew on the spot. " I do not want to hear about
the cook."

Aitzig knew perfectly that he did not want to hear
about the cook, but somehow at this moment his
conscience grew tender again : " God of Moses ! " he
moaned, just loud enough for Lucyan to hear it, and
he softly wrung his hands, — " if the Kojchoiv-huarvis
(the first star of the evening) shall shine out while I
stand talking here, then will Aitzig Majulik's soul be
damned for ever."

The strength of the one paper florin was clearly
spent, and reluctantly Lucyan drew out a second. He
was not precisely a miser, and he was too clever ever
to become a miser, and yet he had some qualities of
the miser in him ; he could not let as much as a silver
Zwanziger leave his hands without a distinct pang of

pain, as acute as though he were parting with a bit of
himself.

Quick," said Lucy an, " since there is no time to
lose. What I want to know is this, Are these speculations
safe ? Are these grand schemes sound or are
they not ? Is the fortune to be built upon ? "

Aitzig drew up his shoulders in his favourite manner,
till they brushed the corkscrew curls, and put onto
his face an expression which might mean anything.

That is a great question which you put to poor old
Aitzig Majulik," he cried. " Who is Aitzig, that he
should answer such a question ? Has he the wisdom
of Solomon to guide him ? How should he like to say
that these grand speculations mean very much, and
how should he like to say that they mean little ? "

This was much too valuable a fund of information
to be imparted thus in a hurried talk, and for the
niggardly consideration of two paper florins.

It was clear that he was not to be got at this way.
Lucyan tried another. Looking at the house, he had
seen a figure step out by the door and stand on the
pillared verandah outside. He recognised Vizia's red
shawl at once, and with its help he was able to assure
himself that this was the plain, and not the beautiful
cousin.

Look," he said, with a bold move, laying his hand
on the Jew's arm, " it is about that young lady that

I want to know. You recognise her?" Aitzig had
turned towards the house, and stood shading his eyes
with his hand.

About that young lady — yes," he repeated, slowly.
What does the gracious Pan desire to know of me ? "

The sum of her fortune ; quick now, on the
spot ! "

God of my forefathers ! " groaned Aitzig, dropping
his hand suddenly, " let me go, noble gentleman ; you
would not have poor old Aitzig burn for ever — wai,
wai ! Do I not see the bright lights beginning to
shine out of the windows of the children of Israel ;
and are they not asking of each other, ' Where is
Aitzig Majulik, the ever faithful ? ' Gottt und die
Welt ! is it not my brethren who are preparing to
leave me ? They will drive home, and they will be
saved, and poor old "

Tell me the sum of her fortune instantly," repeated
Lucyan, not moving a muscle of his face. His hand
was upon Aitzig's arm, and through his threadbare
kaftan the Jew could feel that the grasp of that
delicate white hand was as firm, ay, and as cold too,
as the grasp of a hand of steel. In the background
the waiting Jews were chattering loudly, and swaying
their lean bodies from side to side, as they beckoned
wildly to their comrade.

Quick," said Lucyan, again.

Seventy — thousand — florins," whined Aitzig, trailing
out each word, as though it were being drawn
from his lips with iron pincers, writhing in mental
agony between the thought of his salvation and the
thought of the excellent bargain that might have been
made of this had time only permitted.

Lucyan's eyes lit up for a moment in their own
peculiar fashion. He threw another glance towards
the figure on the verandah, and it struck him that
Vizia looked a great deal handsomer in the light of
these seventy thousand florins, even though he was
scarcely near enough to distinguish her features. But
quickly he returned to caution ; even seventy thousand
florins might easily be swallowed up in one of
Eogdanovics's grand schemes.

Does that mean seventy thousand florins of her
own, or of her father's ? "

"Of her own — of her own ! " breathed Aitzig, wriggling
vainly under Lucyan's hand. "Her mother's
money ; entirely her own. God of Abraham ! "

And the investment ? "

Safe as the ark of the covenant ! "

You are not deceiving me, dog ? " and Lucyan
gave a quick sharp shake to the arm he held. " If
one word is false you shall rue it."

As true as the Pentateuch," said the trembling
Jew, stuttering in his eagerness to be gone ; for the

Szdbas dusk was falling fast, very fast now, and the
swaying Jews in the background were moving slowly
off. " Let my beard be shrivelled to cinders if I speak
not the truth ; they will be saved — Gottt und die Welt,
they will be saved ! "

Save yourself, then, Moschku ! " x and in the
moment that those white fingers unclasped, Aitzig
went off through the snow like an arrow from the
string, racing as though he were pursuing his truant
soul, reached the sledge, already in motion, threw
himself on it with the energy of despair, was dragged
up by the forgiving brethren, whose salvation he had
just been so gravely imperilling, while in a cloud of
flying snow the sledge rushed off at a tearing pace,
and disappeared like lightning through the falling
dusk.

Lucyan found his brother in a state of ill-suppressed
impatience.

Eeally, Lucyan, you might have considered the
horses, instead of standing there conversing about
flower-seeds."

It was very urgent," said Lucyan, taking his place
again.

Well, and is it all right now about those wretched
seeds ? "

Yes, I think my flower-seeds will do very well ! "

1 Contemptuous nickname applied to the Jews.

They drove on some moments in silence ; but Kashmir
was too impatiently eager to hear his brother's
opinion of Xenia to hold his tongue for long.

So you say that you find Mademoiselle Vizia
agreeable?" he resumed, tentatively.

Lucyan had not been saying anything of the sort ;
but, after a momentary pause, he answered readily —

She could be very agreeable, I think, but I cannot
say that she w T as particularly gracious to me."

"What did you talk about at your end of the
room ? "

Well, I tried her with flowers, as you said she
was fond of them ; but somehow she did not seem to
be so very fond of them after all. What used you to
talk about with her \ "

Oh, I don't know ; all sorts of things. She was
agreeable on all subjects, I fancy."

H — m," said Lucyan. " You have more luck
than I."

And what do you think of Mademoiselle Xenia ? "
Kazimir ventured now.

Lucyan did not answer at once. The fur collar hid
the lower part of his face, and, besides, it was fast
growing dark.

Lucyan, don't you hear me ? What do you think
of her ? "

I think she is prettier than her cousin."

VOL. I. M

Prettier than her cousin ! " repeated Kazimir,
with some scorn. He had been looking for expressions
of rapturous — no, not rapturous, for Lucyan
never could be rapturous, but at least undisguised
(Kazimir did not know that his brother could never
be undisguised) — admiration. He regarded Xenia
to a certain extent as his own discovery and invention
; he wanted every one to know her and admire
her; he had really been anxious that his brother
should admire her ; and, instead of this, he was
chilled by being told that she was prettier than
her cousin.

Is that all the difference you find between them ?
you who pretend to call yourself a connoisseur ! "

Oh, I find other differences," said Lucyan, quite
calmly.

What sort ? "

Intellectual differences."

Kazimir felt inclined to fire up, he did not exactly
know why.

I do not in the least understand what you mean,"
he began, impulsively.

That is because you misunderstand. I am not
such a fool as to expect brains in a woman ; they are
rather a disadvantage than otherwise — the few who
have got brains don't know how to use them. They
are very well as they are, I assure you."

That is not my way of looking at women," said
Kazimir, with some heat.

"But it is mine," replied Lucyan, perturbed;
and I daresay it will be yours when you are a few
years older." It did not strike either of them as the
least strange that it should be the younger brother
who said this to the elder. Kazimir at twenty-six
was a great deal younger than Lucyan at twenty-four.

Depend upon it, Kazio, whoever asks for brains
or character in a woman must be very short of the
first ingredient himself. Mademoiselle Vizia has got
brains, I am afraid ; and it is saying a good deal that,
in spite of them, I should like her." Of course Kashmir
could not know that there were seventy thousand
florins in the scale, which went far towards weighing
down the portion of Vizia's brains, however large it
might be.

And as for her cousin, I agree with you ; she has
got the best part of a woman — beauty."

The tone was quite careless, studiously careless, and
perhaps on that account it grated on Kazimir. If it
had not been too dark to see, the smile which accompanied
the words might have grated on him yet more ;
at any rate, it would have shown him that his younger
brother's j judgment as connoisseur was in no danger of
deteriorating.

After this the drive became rather silent. Lucyan

reflected upon his talk with the factor, and examined
the new card in his hand ; and Kazimir asked himself
repeatedly how any one could talk so coolly about
Xenia's beauty. He had experienced a slight and indescribable
chill, not the first which had touched him
since the beginning of his renewed intercourse with
Lucyan. It puzzled and displeased him, for was not
Lucyan his brother ? and is it not a universal law that
brothers love each other % Kazimir believed so at
least, and told himself that of course he liked his
brother, and that these momentary touches, which set
some chord within him jarring, could be caused only
by the long separation. Time would mend that, no
doubt. He did not speak again till they were far on
their way, and then he said suddenly : " Mademoiselle
Yizia asked me to come to their fox-hunt ; I suppose
she asked you too ? "

She did not condescend so far to me, but her
father did, which is the same."

Then you will be there ? "

Yes, I think I shall. The foxes are my enemies,
a hid the traps have failed ; nothing but a lot of starved
sparrows fell in."

"Poor little wretches !" said Kazimir.

Horrid little wretches ! * laughed Lucyan. " Are
you not rather soft-hearted for a soldier? They
were very funny to look at, I assure you. As stiff

as a dozen door-nails. You don't admire the picture ?
Well, to return to the point, I shall go to the fox-hunt
; you have given me a taste for society, Kazio."

As he spoke the very first star shone out overhead,
that terrible star, which coming a little while ago
would have condemned Aitzig Majulik's soul to everlasting
torments ; and whose fatal beam he had barely
escaped by traversing the four miles' distance at a rate
which landed his nine faithful brethren with rescued
souls indeed, but, alas ! with sorely bruised bodies.

CHAPTEK X.

CUTTING FOR PARTNERS.

Du blackest mild und alar und gut,
Und bist's such wool ; doch htite rich, hiite rich !

Dort writer draussen braust cas Meer."

Grillparzer.
If she be made of white and red,
Her faults will ne'er be known."

Love's Labour's Lost.

In spite of the cold, or rather because of the cold, the
foxes had been having a fine time of it lately. The
frost's icy spur had made heroes of them, one and all.
Falling a prey to a certain uneasy oppression in the
depths of their wintry forest haunts, their noble breasts
sighed for the freedom of airy fields, and the palates of
their noble mouths watered for the flavour of the partridges
that peopled those fields. Partridges by day and
fowls by night ; what an ideal of fox-existence ! They
stormed the poultry-yards, they ransacked the duck-ponds,
and many was the plump and tender pullet
which they carried home in triumph to be devoured in

the bosom of their red-coated families. Bolder and
bolder they grew as the cold increased ; intoxicated
with the blood of fat geese, the clearness of their
judgment began to grow clouded. Looked at through
a halo of feathers, the world seemed but one vast
poultry-yard, and men but the dull-headed slaves
who fattened hens and ducks for their majesties the
foxes. Their majesties snapped their fingers, metaphorically
speaking, at mankind. What fools men
were ! What fools were all other creatures but foxes !
The rash and foolish wolf, for instance, who allows
himself to be lured to destruction by the squeal of a
struggling sucking-pig. But Master Eeynard knows
better than that; he is not to be tempted by such
clumsy devices ; he knows to distinguish between one
of those murderer-laden sledges bristling with guns,
and a harmless travelling-sledge — such, for instance,
as this one which comes spinning across the snowy
landscape towards him. Master Eeynard was at that
moment stalking an uncommonly plump partridge; and
what between gourmanclise and arrogance, he did not
consider it worth while to move out of the way for this
travelling party, — this gentleman and his good lady,
starting perhaps on their wedding-trip. The fox had
a good lady himself at home, and he had been young
in his day too, and he had even had a wedding-trip
into a high-class poultry-yard. He remembered still

with emotion the first succulent guinea-fowl (ah, how
succulent it had been !) which he and she had strangled
between them. To this day he could never see a
guinea-fowl without feeling soft. Altogether the sight
of this young couple put him into a state of good-humoured
patronage; and if he had not been afraid
of leaving that partridge out of his ken, he would
have liked to turn round, wave his red tail instead of a
handkerchief, and call out bon voyage to the travellers.
Just as he had reached this pitch of sentiment, it
struck Master Eeynard that the young travellers on
their side were evincing at least an equal sympathy
for him. Straight towards him the sledge came, spinning
nearer and nearer over the snow. The male
occupant half rose for a moment, and bent towards
the driver. With one eye Master Eeynard saw this,
keeping the other eye on the partridge, and at the
same moment it seemed to him that the travelling rug
at the bottom of the sledge moved as if it were alive ;
and from under the edge what was that that peeped ?
A snout 1 a canine snout ? a sharp greyhound snout ?
Panic seized on Eeynard's heart ; horrid recollections
darted through his brain ; long-forgotten legends which
he had heard from his grandfather's lips, of masked
sledges, of disguises, of greyhounds concealed, of pursuit,
destruction, death. Were men such fools, after all?
He saw no more partridge, he sighed no longer over his

wedding - trip ; he cast one glance across his ruddy
shoulder, and beheld the rug torn off and two sharp-nosed
monsters leaping to the ground. On one side
the open country, not a bush to hide him for miles
and miles ; on the other the forest, but, alas ! nearly a
mile away ; his last chance — for had he not a good
start of those sharp-nosed, slender-bodied monsters ?
He turned and fled towards the forest like wind.

Too soon, Panie — nearly a minute too soon," said
the driver, turning to the gentleman in the sledge ;
you should not have uncovered the dogs for another
minute."

We shall have him yet ! " cried Kazimir, flushed
with the excitement of the sport ; and standing up he
tore the reins from the man's hands, seized the whip,
and lashed the horses into a furious pace. Over the
fields they flew, scattering the snow on all sides, tearing
it up under the horses' feet ; and before them the
dogs stretched, and further ahead, that red spot fled
over the white ground, drawing nearer and nearer to
the forest. The dogs held on bravely, though the
snow was deep; and the horses, taking the bit between
their teeth, raced as though they were racing for their
lives. Kazimir cracked the whip, and shouted encouragement
to both dogs and horses. Once in the forest
the game would be lost, but they were still a good
quarter of a mile off.

Kozak — that's right — he is gaining — cheer on —
another stretch — harder — harder ! " shouted Kazimir,
upright in the flying sledge. " We shall have him
yet ! They are all but ahead ; ha ! what's come to
Wanda ? She's lagging — by heavens she'll fail us ! "

It is the snow, Panie — the snow ! it's too deep,"
cried the driver, clutching desperately to his seat ;
too deep by half a yard. See there, it's all over ! " for
the second greyhound, dropping back suddenly, sank
up to her shoulders in the snow.

There's Kozak still," said Kazimir, with one more
fierce cut to the horses ; but even while he was saying
it, Kozak began to flag — his hind-legs stuck, he struggled
free again, raced on a few paces, sank again, and
floundered along helplessly. Master Reynard could
have laughed in his red sleeve now, but the panic
had not left him, and did not leave him until he
was safe in his forest haunts ; and once there, the
first use to which he put his recovered breath, was
to vow that taste of partridge should never cross
his lips again.

We have lost him ! " and Kazimir sank back on
his seat.

What a pity ! " said Xenia, clinging still apprehensively
to the side of the sledge. She was used to
hard driving, but she had never been driven quite so
hard as this before. The last ten minutes had been

almost as nervous work to her as to the fox. Kazimir
felt remorseful, begged her pardon, hoped he had not
frightened her, for if that were the case, he could not
reasonably be expected to forgive himself, no, not if he
lived to be a hundred. He was ready to swear never
so much as to look at a fox again, with the same
fervour wherewith the fox had sworn never to look
at a partridge.

And so the poor disconcerted dogs were lugged up
into their places, and the party looked about, a little
crestfallen, considering what they should do next.

I wonder where the others are ? " said Xenia.

There is one of the sledges over there, after a fox
of their own ; we must not spoil their sport. Who is
it ? Lucyan, I declare ! "

And Vizia ! " said Xenia, staring in the direction.

Your cousin and my brother ! " said Kazimir, and
he smiled. " They seem to be very good friends, don't
they ? Lucyan was half inclined to shirk the sledging
this morning."

Kazimir fell into a momentary meditation ; and the
subjects of his meditation were Lucyan and Vizia.
Certainly there was no accounting for some tastes.
He had not seen his brother start, for his sledge had
been the first to leave the house. The start had been
a complicated business altogether, and somewhat
stormy too. There had been five sledges in all, drawn

up before the door of Lodniki, and the first rule of the
sport was that each sledge should start independently
of the others, so as to give to the couple in each the
appearance of a harmless travelling party. But then
the difficulty of telling off these couples ! And how
Kazimir had trembled when he saw himself all but
allotted to an excellent young lady of forty summers,
with soot - coloured hair, and a dust - coloured complexion.
What between arguments and manoeuvres
and counter-manoeuvres, and an amiable young giant
who had tried very hard to carry off Xenia, and
the aforesaid dust-coloured lady who had tried
equally hard to carry off the young giant, and a
choleric old gentleman who insisted that the arrangements
were all new-fangled, and that the greyhounds
of the present day were not worthy to hold a candle
to the greyhounds of his day, and Pawel the sporting
servant's undisguised indignation at being kept out of
the fun, and Eogdanovics's hospitable efforts to please
everybody with the least trouble to himself, — what
with all this, it had taken fully an hour before the
party had got properly under way. " Rather cold
work," Lucyan had said aside to his brother ; " I
think I shall stay with the old people," and just at
that moment Kazimir had perceived that the amiable
young giant was making preparations to enter Xenia's
sledge. " I beg your pardon, that is my place,"

Kazimir had said, looking the amiable young giant
steadily in the eyes ; and the poor giant had shrunk to
half his size, withdrawn the leg which was already in
the sledge, and, with a helpless smile, resigned himself
to his dust-coloured nymph.

Thank heavens ! " Kazimir had breathed, when
they were off. For weeks he had looked forward to
this moment ; was it likely that he should let himself
be frustrated, even by a giant ? This was one of the
rare occasions on which it is understood that Polish
chaperonage relaxes her sway ; and as Kazimir drove
away, he was struck by the same thought which had
struck Master Eeynard a little time ago — the thought
of the wedding-trip. It was a thought which set his
blood on fire, a thought which sent delicious thrills to
his heart.

Up to this winter Kazimir had known no higher
interest than that of his profession. To his profession
he clung w T with an undivided attachment, which has
gone quite as much out of fashion as the type of his
features. His profession had, to a certain extent,
formed his character. Discipline had given him much
control over a temper naturally as high and intolerant
as his father's had been ; isolation from family ties
had made him singularly independent in thought and
decision. The interests of military life had been outlets
to his naturally ardent temperament. As yet

these interests had sufficed, and Kazimir had no idea
that they might one day fall short of sufficing. Not
that he had ever shunned society ; he had taken
pleasures as they came, and enjoyed them keenly at
the moment ; and society had received him with open
arms, and would gladly have made a pet of the handsome,
vivacious young Pole, with his youthful old-fashioned
face, who moved and talked so easily, who
never looked bored and never affected to be blase, and
who carried about him a flavour of old-world chivalry,
quite distinct from the ordinary drawing-room varnish,
which is the only substitute to be had nowadays. Butin
the midst of it all, Kazimir never looked upon
society as more than a temporary relaxation ; his profession
was the business, and society the recreation, of
his life. Once or twice, as with his temperament and
at his age was inevitable, the recreation had threatened
to become serious. He had knelt at various
shrines, but slightly, on one knee only, as it were ; he
had been bound by chains, but nothing more than
rose-chaplets, easily cast off. His captivities had been
but short-lived ; the main interest had never failed to
assert its sv/ay over the interest of the moment. Thus
he had escaped unscathed, going on his way and retaining
no impression, though possibly leaving some
behind ; passing unhurt through perils in which
colder men than he had fallen. Now, for the first

time since he had reached the age of manhood, he
found himself cut off suddenly from his military
sphere, and plunged into the monotony of a secluded
country place. His thoughts, finding themselves violently
taken off from their usual interests, sought
eagerly for some other stimulus. Had he met Xenia
in his Tyrolese garrison, he might have bent no more
than one knee to her, as to the others ; but meeting
her at this place and at this period, he had gone
down on both his knees at once, and unhesitatingly —
and doubted not that on his knees he should remain
to the end of time.

Now, as, having lost their fox, the little party drove
slowly towards the forest, the wild delicious thrill of
joy which touched Kazimir was by no means the first,
but it was by far the most wild and the most delicious
which had touched him during these last two months.
They were alone (for a Polish driver does not rank asa
man), alone in this vast frozen forest. Hopes of
solid ice were twisted round every branch ; heavy
icicles hung overhead ; every dead leaf on the dead
trees was coated with frost. It was a dull, sullen,
and bitterly cold day — one of many days just alike.
For weeks past no snow had fallen, no wind had
blown, no sun had shone. Every morning the 
had been fantastically frozen ; the trees
had stood rigid with ice, stiff with hardened snow.

But Kazimir did not miss the sunshine. He saw only
that the wintry trees were of a bridal-like whiteness,
and that the frosty branches seemed to wreathe themselves
naturally into dazzling diadems ; the weak
chirp of a half frozen linnet hopping across their
path, seemed to him sweeter than the song of any
nightingale ; for no nightingale he had ever heard
had sung a song which he could understand : while
this poor lean bird was, quite distinctly and audibly,
celebrating the delight, the happiness, the sweet
intoxication of a fresh first love. It was not Kashmir's
way to notice small things ; but what that linnet
chirped coincided so exactly with his own opinion,
that he put his hand to his pocket in the hopes of
a crumb.

They had made no effort to regain the open plain ;
once in the forest, they continued their way through it
mechanically, feeling singularly cool about the foxes.

"Does this not remind you," asked Kazimir, suddenly,
" of that ride over the Pyrenees of Palmerieie
and Barbarin, about which you told me ? The wood
in which he fell on his knees before her, must have
been just like this one, I fancy."

Pan Bielinski ! " the blue eyes looked at him in
undisguised reproach. " How could Palmerieie ride with
Barbarin ? Don't you remember that he has made up
his mind to strangle her the very first time that they

are alone together? And besides, he is her half-brother,
you know."

Oh, I beg your pardon, to be sure ; of course it
would be no fun riding with her brother, particularly
if she is to be strangled. It was the other fellow I
meant. By the by, how did the last duel go off between
Albert and — and — what's his name 1 Rudolph S "

Adolph and Raoul," corrected Xenia, carefully.
It was not quite as bad as I feared ; Adolph only
lost one ear, and Raoul got two ribs broken, or I think
it was three. Vizia would know, if she was here," and
Xenia gave a look around, as if in hopes that her
cousin might possibly appear from out of the frozen
forest. " I think that in the next number of the
1 Journal des Demoiselles ' the secret will be explained,
for the last words are : ' Alors l'inconnu, avec un rire
demoniacal, arrack son masque, et a la vue de ce
visage, Palmerieie tomba en arrive, evanouie.' There
are three stars before ' evanouie/ It was at a masked
ball, you know."

Have you ever been to a masked ball ? " inquired
Kazimir, regardless of Palmerieie's sufferings.

Never ; there was one last year at Krakow, but —
but "

You were not at it ? "

No ; because my aunt said that the costume would
be too expensive."

VOL. I. N

Kazimir wished he had not touched upon so delicate
a subject, but Xenia, though blushing, was not
precisely embarrassed. She went on with her naive
confidences.

You see, my aunt will give me very little money to
spend. I had to wear the same ball-room dress twice
over ; and I could not have gone to the third ball at all,
if Vizia had not given me a dress."

You are very fond of your cousin, are you not ? "
asked Kazimir, thirsting for every word from her lips,
not caring much what she said, as long as she spoke.

Of Vizia ? Oh, I like her more than any one else
in the world; you don't know how good she is
to me."

More than any one else in the world," repeated
Kazimir, aloud, and a pang of jealousy stabbed his
heart. " Yes, and your aunt at Krakow ? go on, please,
tell me more."

I like her too j only she is cross sometimes, and
she lets me have so little to spend ; she says I shan't
need money till I marry, and then I shall have
plenty."

A rich marriage," said Kazimir between his teeth,
and I am a poor man. No matter, I shall win her."
His blood was mounting rapidly with every moment
that they sped thus along; the frosty air made him
drunk. What was that the linnet chirped just now?

Away, away, through the forest ! never turn back.
Carry her boldly off, and she is yours." He could
scarcely take his eyes off Xenia's face; off the rounded
chin, where childish dimples were for ever peeping,
the ruffled curls pressed by the soft fur cap. She
wore a velvet kazaba'ika, and though the dark-green
colour was somewhat faded, and the velvet no longer
new, the jacket, with its border of silver-grey fur, set
off her beauty to perfection. That touch of crimson
on her cheek, of blue in her eyes, of bright chestnut-brown
on her hair, made a contrast and a harmony of
tints which was fast bewitching his senses ; and then,
the open, timid, yet fearless gaze of those blue eyes !
It was enough to make the brain of a stronger and
an older man reel. The irresistible charm of her
manner was not to be defined by any single word : it
w T as not affected, and yet not free from affectation ;
it was not pure nature, and yet it was not pure art ; if
there was vanity in it, it was the vanity of an innocent
child; and if there was coquetry there, it was
coquetry so unconscious and so young — coquetry
scarcely peeping from the bud, with the bloom still so
fresh upon it — that not for worlds would you have had
her without it. Even those little tricks of gesture,
that shrug and half-shy toying with a curl which washer
habit, were, in their way, not inoffensive only, but
enchanting. Her charm was not that of the wild

brier, which flings its careless branches on the air ; it
was rather that of a well-trained garden rose, putting
out its buds in regular succession, where not a twig
is allowed to grow out of the straight way, and not a
tendril is suffered to escape. As there are different
tastes in the world, it is as well that there should be
both wild briers and garden roses growing there.

And she would not let me dance often," went on
Xenia, continuing her complaints — " she won't let me
go to the public balls ; but, do you know, I think we
shall dance a little this evening. I have had no carnival
at all."

I hope you will dance with me," said Kazimir,
losing his head more and more.

The Mazur ? "

Yes, the Mazur and the quadrille, waltzes and
polkas, anything, everything."

Xenia drew back and gave him a glance, shrinking,
inquiring, and coy, and then quickly she turned her
face away.

Perhaps I shall go to Krakow after all," she said,
nervously ; " my aunt wants me to come for the last
week of carnival."

Don't go," said Kazimir, impulsively.

To Krakow ? Why not ? "

Because I could not bear it ! " began Kazimir, and
then checked himself with a violent effort of will. He

was quite clear by this time, that this woman beside
him was the only woman he should care to have for
his wife, but he must not frighten her, perhaps spoil
his chance, by a rash confession. No ; these hungry
birds hopping along the bushes, with their tempting,
insinuating chirp, might mean it for the best, but,
alas! they were not acquainted with the usages of the
world. It might be all very well for a linnet to fly
off straight with the bird of his choice, and thus to
cheat all watchful relations, all ambitious old aunts ;
but it would scarcely do for human beings.

What would be safe to say next 1 Change the subject?
But the subject was at that moment changed
in a quite unexpected manner.

The two greyhounds, crouching under the cover
neglected and forgotten, had up to this point lain
motionless ; but just as Kazimir was wondering what
next to say, there was a movement at their feet ; the
fur rug shivered violently, and one of the dogs jerked
his head up into sight.

"What is it, Kozak? — a fox?" asked Kazimir,
remembering with a start that they were supposed to
be out on a fox-hunt.

Kozak was sitting upright, his neck stretched, his
eye fixed ; and as Kazimir spoke, he began to whine
and tremble.

"Out at him, Kozak! where is he?" said Kazimir,

with an encouraging pat ; and he drew the covering off
the second dog. But neither Kozak nor Wanda showed
any inclination to leap off the sledge : Kazimir gave
the signal and they did not offer to obey it, did not
even seem to see it, but sat pressed against each other,
shivering and whining.

The dogs are gone mad," said Kazimir, and he rose
in the sledge to look on ahead. There was a frozen
stream crossing the road, about a dozen yards in front
of them ; a bridge of rough planks led over this stream ;
and right in the centre of the bridge, sitting immovable
on its haunches, was a large and shaggy grey
beast. Kazimir's first impression was that this must
be a dog belonging to one of the other sledges ; but
then it was certainly not a greyhound : it had neither
the figure nor the colour of a greyhound ; its hair
was coarse and stiff; there was a suggestion of iron
strength in the curve of the haunches, and in the bend
of the rigid neck, as with lowered head and dull eyes
it stared full and stupidly at the approaching sledge.

The strangest dog I have ever seen," said Kazimir,
still standing. " Do you see him, Panii Xenia ? "

Yes, I see him — but it is not a dog ; it is a fox — I
think the same fox that looked at me through the
window ; I know him by his broad white chest."

"You must be right; Kozak, Wanda, out at him,
cowards ! why don't they move ? Touch up the

horses — we shall be close to him in a minute ;" but
before he could finish his phrase, both horses, as they
reached the first plank of the bridge, swerved violently
to one side, reared half up, and refused to advance.

Kazimir, thrown forwards, just saved himself from
falling. The driver seemed all at once to have taken
leave of his senses.

Will ! will I " he shouted, in tones of terror, lashing
the rearing horses frantically. "The will! we
must fly from the will I "

A wolf ? " repeated Kazimir, incredulously.
"A wolf!" Xenia turned deadly pale, and clung
shuddering to his arm. " Oh, save me ! Let us get on ;
it will tear us to pieces ! "

The beast shall not touch you," said Kazimir, excitedly
; " see, I am between the wolf and you. Don't
be frightened, — don't cry, I implore of you ; one wolf
could not hurt us, if it tried."

They were close alongside of the brute by this time ;
but the wolf never stirred; there it sat still, in its
gorged and heavy attitude, stupidly staring with sunk
head and glaring yellow eyes. The terrified horses,
lashed on by the terrified coachman, plunged without
being able to retreat, and without daring to advance.

Let me out ! let me out ! " cried Kazimir ; " let me
get at the wolf ! " but his left arm was prisoner, and he
could not move.

Shoot, Panie ! " screamed the driver.

"No, no, don't shoot — please don't shoot," sobbed
Xenia, with her face buried on his sleeve.

I have nothing to shoot with, — but let me out ! "

Don't, Annie, don't ! " cried the man.

No, no, stay near me ! don't get out — don't go near
the wolf ! " Xenia implored ; " you will be hurt — you
will be killed!"

I shall not be killed ; you do not know how strong
I am," said Kazimir, between his reluctance to shake
off that clinging hold, and his desire to do something
which might turn him into a sort of hero before her
eyes. "I will kill him, I promise you, — strangle him,
strike him dead somehow; let me have a stick,
anything. Ah ! the whip ! " He snatched the whip
with his one free hand, and leaning from the sledge
as far as he could, struck out with the butt-end, but
missed his aim — reversed the whip, and lashed outwith
all his strength at the wolf. He hit him this
time, and the brute, slowly rising, with his neck still
lowered, stood for a moment where he had sat. Kozak
threw up his head and gave a dismal howl, which
struck cold to the very marrow of the bones.

At the second lash, the wolf moved off heavily,
slinking towards the brushwood, with his head turned
backwards, and his lips drawn up from his teeth in a
sullen and hideous snarl.

The horses, bounding forwards, cleared the bridge,
and galloped wildly along the road.

"It is all over," said Kazimir, half regretfully.
Panii Xenia, it is all over."

Her face was still hidden on his arm ; he could feel
how she was trembling with nervous excitement. She
looked up now and glanced fearfully around. "Are
you sure it is over? are you sure the wolf is gone?
Take me home — oh, take me home to Vizia! " she broke
out, bursting into hysterical sobs. Her face was so
pale that Kazimir thought she would faint. It was
his dangerous privilege to soothe her, to comfort her,
to support her with his arm, to promise that they
should be at home presently, and that till then she
must trust to him. There are some men who are
repelled by the extremes of feminine helplessness, and
there are some men who are attracted by it ; some
whom hysterical tears harden, and some whom they
soften. Kazimir was of the latter sort. The more a
woman seemed able to take care of herself, the less
sympathy he felt for her; and the more anxious a
woman was to lean upon him, the more ready he was
to be leant upon. He was the very stuff of which the
knights of the middle ages were made of; anything
weak, anything in want of protection appealed straight
to his honour, and to his heart. Widows and orphans
and ill-used people generally were the peculiar objects

of his sympathy. Women who were neither widowed,
orphaned, nor ill-used, appeared to a certain disadvantage
before his eyes. If Xenia had not been an
orphan, he might not have felt so mightily drawn
towards her. Of course, as the orphan in question
happened to be transcendently beautiful, it did not
detract from the effect upon him.

He was half trembling himself as he supported her,
and gave her every care which he could think of, —
chafing her hands with snow, which he snatched in
passing— imploring her to rely on him ; * for, look," he
said, " we are almost out of the forest now."

And soon she revived, and the colour flowed back
to her cheek, and she begged him not to think her
foolish (he only thought her adorable). She was composed
enough to blush at the thought of how she had
clung to him a minute ago, and yet still flurried
enough to leave her hand in his for support.

And we shall be out of the forest soon," she
whispered. " Oh, how glad I am ! The forest will
always frighten me now ; I should like to get away
from it. I should like to go to Krakow; there are no
forests there, and no wolves."

But if some one begged you not to go to Krakow,"
answered Kazimir, in a whisper, too, " would you not
stay then ? " His pulses were throbbing so intolerably
hard, that he could scarcely hear his own voice.

He had been able to check himself a little time ago ;
but that was before the wolf — before she had clung
to him and hid her face on his arm ; he was no
more able to check himself now. He would not
now have been deaf to the insinuating chirp of
the linnets, and to the delicious temptation they
suggested.

If some one asked you to stay ? " he urged, not
hearing or not heeding the jingle of approaching
sledge-bells.

If who asked me to stay ? " breathed Xenia, almost
inaudibly.

If I asked you — if I begged you as a favour — if I
told you that the thought of your going there made
me miserable."

I don't want to make you miserable."

Then make me happy ! " broke out Kazimir.

"Ha, Kazio ! is that you?" The call was close at
hand, the bells were jingling by his ear, and he had
not heard them. He started, and beheld, a few yards
from him, his brother Lucyan beside Vizia. There
was a quiet smile on Lucyan's face. " Have you been
looking for foxes in the forest, Kazio ? and did you
find any there ? "

We have got a fox ! " shouted another voice from
another side ; and the amiable young giant appeared
abreast of the sledge.

They had reached the place of rendezvous, and that
wild delightful drive was at an end.

As soon as they got home, Xenia threw herself into
her cousin's arms, and said —

Pity me, Vizia, I have been so frightened ! I was
nearly torn to pieces by a wolf in the forest."

CHAPTER XL

SHE LOST THE TRICK.

Why was I made for love, and love denied to me ? "

Coleridge.

I AM ready to wager," said Kogdanovics, when the
company was sitting round a gay and well-covered
board — " I am ready to wager that we shall not be
troubled with another fox this winter ; we have done
our duty by them, I fancy."

The young giant blushed because he had brought
two foxes home, and Kazimir blushed because he had
brought home none. And yet he would not for a
good deal have changed places with that gigantic and
amiable youth ; for it was an understood thing that
each gentleman sat beside the lady whom he had
accompanied in the sledge.

Well, we saw a wolf at least, instead of killing a
fox," said Kazimir, laughing a little guiltily.

If it was a wolf," observed Lucyan, coolly.

Ask Panii Xenia if it was not."

Oh, if Panii Xenia says so ! " Lucyan inclined
his head with a sort of half courteous, half-contemptuous
surrender, and with nothing more than the very
faintest flavour of a sneer mixed with the smile on his
face.

A wolf ! and why should it not have been a
wolf?" broke out the choleric old gentleman at the
foot of the table. "You youngsters make more fuss
about one wolf than we used to make of a whole pack
of them in our days. Why, I remember the time
when you could not take a sledge-drive through this
very forest without being chased within an inch of
your life. Ah ! they were fine times those ! "

For the wolves, no doubt," remarked Lucyan, drily.

I have shot more wolves than any one else in the
room," proclaimed a gentleman with a tremendous
voice, rolling his eyes round the circle, in the hopes of
challenging a denial.

A propos of wolves, they have sent me a new
song from my music-dealers," said a musical youth
bashfully. " ' The Wolf's Lament,' it is called," and he
glanced at the company inquiringly ; but the company,
knowing well that when this musical youth once
sat down at the piano, there was little hope of removing
him from it, displayed' a discouraging coolness
about ' The Wolf's Lament,' and the musician relapsed
into silence.

No good old times for me," broke in the host
cheerily; progress for me, — inventions, discoveries,
steam-ploughs, electricity, railways. Ah, wait a little ;
when the railway gets here — my railway, I call it —
see if it does not whistle off the foxes and wolves
in no time ! Ah yes, gentlemen, our ground will
then double, treble, quadruple itself; we shall reach
Lwow in half a day, — yes, half a day, I tell
you ! "

The choleric old gentleman gave a stormy sigh.
In my time we used to take four days on the road
unless we were robbed and had a free fight by the
way. Ah, that was interest, that was excitement !
Life was worth living then ! "

Has there been any more surveying of the country
lately ? " asked the young giant, who being the
heir to a large property, had a serious interest in
the question.

"Don't know, Tiburtio — don't know, really," said
Eogdanovics ; " one never hears any news as long as
Aitzig Majulik is away buying up horses. The only
thing I have heard is that the church at Tarajow has
caught fire again, though they put it out ; seems
expressly constructed for the purpose ; burns down
every five years, I fancy."

No man present has seen so many wooden churches
burnt down as I have," said the gentleman with the

rolling eyes defiantly ; but this assertion again passed
unchallenged.

News ! is any one in want of news ? " asked
another ; " there is plenty of news in the telegrams
to-day. The Government stocks are falling as hard as
they can ; depend upon it, in another month Italy
and Austria will be at each other's throats."

Kazimir, as an authority on the subject, was
stormed with questions. Yes, he said, it was true ;
the thunder-clouds were no sham thunder clouds, but
real thunder-clouds, which meant to burst presently.
When last he had heard from his regiment, he had
been warned to prepare himself for an immediate call
at any moment.

They cannot begin before spring. Let me see, — weare
barely at the middle of February now — they will
have to drag on till March at least ! "

I am ready to wager — ha ! what is that ? a shot
outside ? "

The gentlemen put down their forks, the ladies
started; Xenia screamed, then hid her face in her
handkerchief. There was s-archly the pause of a
second before Pawel re-entered the room, looking a
little breathless, but betraying otherwise no agitation,
as, with perfect aplomb, he presented the dish next
in course.

Was that a shot outside, Pawel ? " asked his master.

Yes, Panie."

Who fired it ? "

« I did, Panie."

I hope," said Eogdanovics F a little testily, " that
you have not again been cleaning your guns during
dinner ? "

"No, Panie; I cleaned them during breakfast. I
was shooting at something now'

What have you shot ? — a hare ? "

A fox, I think," said Pawel, proudly; " but I have
not had time to look."

A fox ? That's right ; go and see ! "

Pawel went and looked, and returned a minute
later quite out of breath and quite scarlet in the face.
If you please, Panie, it is a wolf I have shot ! "

"A wolf?" The company were on their feet ina
moment. A wolf shot between the roast and the
pudding, or rather, I should say, between the pudding
and the roast, — that was enough motive to leave
the roast untouched on the table, and hurry out to
prove the truth of the statement. Even the ladies
rose under the influence of excited curiosity, and
streamed towards the door. Xenia alone did not rise.
When she heard that it was a wolf that was shot,
she hid her face again, and shuddered just as she
had shuddered in the sledge.

A glass of water, perhaps," suggested Kazimir, in
vol. I.

±j

distress. " Mademoiselle Vizia" — for Vizia, at that
moment, was passing on her way to the door — " would
you be so infinitely kind as to push me that carafe ? I
think your cousin is a little — alarmed."

Vizia looked from Kazimir to Xenia ; a frown came
to her forehead, and an angry flush leapt to her cheek.
She pushed the carafe towards him — rather roughly, it
seemed to Kazimir.

You are easily touched ? " she said, disdainfully.
It is so very alarming, is it not ? especially as the
wolf is shot ! "

Mademoiselle Vizia ! " exclaimed Kazimir, entirely
taken aback at this display of temper, and startled by
the angry quiver of her voice.

What a blessing to have weak nerves ! How interesting
! how charming ! Don't you see that it is

all " she broke off, and brushed past him; but

between her teeth he heard her mutter, " affectation ! "

Kazimir looked after her aghast. All that he
thought was, " What a pity that her temper is so
bad!"

The rest of the meal was of a tumultuous sort, —
to all intents and purposes, the company dined off the
wolf. Even after they had sat down again, the gentlemen,
from time to time, felt moved to rise and have
another look at the fallen monster. It was a large
and heavily gorged beast that had died by Pawel's

gun. Stupidly prowling round the house, it had been
an easy mark; and one glance at the ugly carcass
convinced Kazimir that this was their acquaintance
of the bridge. " I knew I could not be kept out
of the sport," said Pawel a dozen times that evening,
with proudly beaming eyes. He was the hero of the
hour: his health was drunk (one young gentleman,
who was unused to a second glass of wine, drank the
wolf's health by mistake), his hand was shaken all
round ; his master presented him with a gold piece on
the spot.

The conservative old gentleman admitted that the
good old days were not quite past after all ; the gentleman
with the rolling eyes repeated his statement, to
the effect that no one present had seen as many wolves
shot as he ; and Lucyan remarked, with a smile, " Then
Panii Xenia was right after all."

When the general excitement had somewhat calmed,
the tables were cleared, and a little unpremeditated
dancing began. It was the musical young gentleman
who indirectly proved the moving spirit. Bashfully
he had produced a large roll of music ; and having
lured an unfortunate man to the piano, he commenced,
amidst burning blushes, to make himself into a general
nuisance by wailing forth " The Wolf Lament." When
The Wolf's Lament " had died off into a long-drawn
dismal note, and from that into silence, the man at the

piano, feeling probably the want of shaking off the
depressing effect, struck the chord of a Mazur, and
rattled his hands down the piano. It was as if he had
struck a match : the room caught fire in a moment ;
the gentlemen got to their feet, — heels clicked and
silk dresses rustled as they led their partners down
the room.

You do not dance ? " asked Rogdanovics of Lucyan,
who stood in the doorway watching.

Never ; that is to say, hardly ever."

Your brother is a perfect Mazur dancer."

Lucyan bowed.

The most graceful in the room," put in Eogdano
vices's hot-tempered friend ; " he has got the old stamp
about him. Graceful men are quite out of fashion nowadays."


Lucyan bowed again.

Ah, he takes after his father ; that was just Bogu-
nnTs manner and look," said the host. " How is your
mother, by the by, Bielinski ? "

"Thank you," said Lucyan, "much better lately,
but since yesterday hardly so well."

Tut, tut, that's all as it should be ; never say die.
It's always a good sign when a patient does not mend
too fast."

"She certainly is not mending too fast," replied
Lucyan.

That's right. There, the Mazur is at an end ; we
must have a KrakowiaJc now."

The Krakowiak was a much more noisy affair than
the Mazur. This is a dance which leaves much scope
for the genius and invention of the dancer. Each
gentleman in turn selects a lady, leads her down the
room to the sound of the music, and having reached
the end, distinguishes himself either by executing some
extraordinary pas, or singing some improvised verse,
drinking the lady's health, presenting her with a
flower, or otherwise paying her some ingenuous compliment
; the principal point of the performance
lying in variety, and the great ambition of every
dancer being to outshine the last. Each couple for
the time being is virtually on a stage, with the eyes
of the audience upon them.

Every one danced, young and old. The choleric
gentleman selected the dust-coloured maiden, perhaps
as a relic of the olden times, and sidling nimbly down
the room, with an alternate chasse and click of his
heels, emphasised his devotion by drinking her health
in three glasses of atrociously sweet wine.

Next came Rogdanovics, exciting much wonder by
the vigour of his stamps and the length of his strides.

Upon him followed close the musical young man,
who, having reached the terminus, sang, in an agony
of shyness, a verse to the effect that night and morning,

he would wish to stand under his lady's window
and pour out his heart in song, — a prospect which
made every one present shudder apprehensively.

The young giant's turn came then. Entering into
the spirit of increasing wildness, he performed some
astounding feats ; but it was neither to poetry nor to
wine that he had recourse. His strength lay in muscle ;
and at sight of the extraordinary activity with which,
at every fourth bar of the music, he dropped on one
knee before Xenia and shot up again, a murmur of
applause ran round the room.

The man with the rolling eyes, who prided himself
on having seen more Krakowiaks danced than any one
present, and stimulated by the applauding murmur,
made a desperate attempt at originality by flying
along with the lady's hand held high above his head
at an angle almost as picturesque as it was uncomfortable.


Kazimir's turn had arrived. With a flush on his
face he stepped up to the still breathless Xenia, who
stood beside the big Tiburtio. It was impossible to
beat the giant on his own ground, and Kazimir did
not attempt it ; struck by a happy thought, he knelt
on one knee and laid his drawn sword at Xenia's
feet.

Bravo ! bravo ! " shouted the much excited spectators,
while Xenia turned aside blushing.

There was but one more pair now. Kazimir looked
up, and to his surprise beheld his brother Lucyan
with Vizia. It startled him almost as much as if one
of the pictures on the wall had come down to join the
revels. There was no reason why a young man of
twenty-four should not dance a Krakowiak ; but somehow
Kazimir never did think of his brother as a
young man of twenty-four. After the wildness of
some of the last dancers, Lucyan's dancing produced
a sort of chill and sober reaction. He was as pale
and as cool as ever as he went down the room with a
noiseless gliding step, and reaching the end, he bowed
low and ceremoniously, and drawing a magnificent red
rose from his button-hole, presented it to Vizia.

"Who would have thought it?" said Kazimir to
himself; "who would have thought that Lucyan could
be so easily smitten ? " but " smitten " did not seem
to be exactly the word. His brother puzzled him ;
Lucyan's manner towards women was altogether
baffling. He had not the manner of a so-called
ladies' man," nor did he appear to be at the slightest
trouble to please. He was cool and watchful,
listening more than he talked, never contradicting
the most foolish speech, seemingly because he did not
think it worth while; and with a sneer ever mixed
with his smile. Even when with the customary
Madam do noy" he professed to fall at a lady's feet,

there never was absent a lurking twitch in the corners
of his mouth, or a passing gleam of his eye, which
made of the words almost an insult, instead of the
high and courteous compliment which these same
words sounded in Kazimir's lips.

And yet, reflected Kazimir, though this was not his
own manner of being in love, it apparently was Lucyan's.
Why else should he have been in such constant
attendance upon Vizia, and have paid her the
most marked attentions all day long ? and Lucyan,
who prided himself on being a connoisseur of female
beauty ! No, he gave up the problem ; there was no
accounting for tastes : and feeling perplexed, and
moreover heated with the Krakowiak, Kazimir left
the room, and strolled out through the passage, to
the dark verandah outside. Vizia was a nice girl in
her way ; but then, near her cousin ! Besides, her
temper was undoubtedly bad. How sharply did her
harsh words contrast with Xenia's acknowledgment
of cousinly affection, which he had heard in the
morning !

Ah ! what a day it had been ! There was but one
dark spot on the sky, but that spot was large, gigantically
large ; it was the young giant Tiburtio, in fact.
For Tiburtio was a rich man, and he had all evening
perseveringly, if awkwardly, been contending against
Kazimir for Xenia's smiles. And Xenia had smiled

on him ; but then, to be sure, she had smiled just as
much on every old lady-guest in the room. Xenia
had one manner for all the world ; and that, no doubt,
was one of the secrets of her charm. She was far too
young to have acquired that double-beauty manner
which is cold to one sex and warm to the other.
Vizia's manner, which was cold to both sexes, made a
startling foil to her cousin's. There was more sweetness
in Xenia's frown than there was even in Vizia's
smile. Watching the two, a more cynical man than
Kazimir might have been tempted to say : " If this is
artificial, then art is charming ; if that is nature, then
nature is repelling." But this was not Kazimir's
thought; he was busy weighing his own hopes of
success, and he almost thought that his chances were
good : " A rich marriage, and I am a poor man," he
repeated ; " never mind, I shall win her."

Reflecting thus, Kazimir stood leaning against a
pillar, with his head thrown back upon it, his arms
folded across his breast, while with an eager thirst
he drank in the bitter winter air. In front of him
stretched the white country, of a more ghostly white
under the moonlight. To the right and to the left
of him stood the deep forest ; and the moon, less chary
of its beams than the sun had been, touched the heavy
ice-ropes till they seemed to grow alive with glittering
light, and hung a diamond on every icicle. There was

a little breeze to-night, and the murmur in the treetops
seemed to Kazimir like the echo of long dead
nightingales, come out of their graves expressly to
sing for him. Far, far off in the great forest, there
was the solitary howl of a hungry wolf. Everything
was silent beside.

Kazimir wondered why he should never before have
discovered the magic of moonlight silence, nor the
poetry of moonlit solitude. Moonlight, roses, nightingales,
he had never heeded them before, but he began
to lose himself in dreams of them to-night. Nightingales,
however, were scarcely enough to suggest the
exquisite inflections of that voice which had first bewitched
him. Was there a parallel on earth, a single
metaphor, worthy of her voice ? Kazimir did not think
so. Having passed in review such things as splashing
fountains, crystal bells, mountain breezes, and silver
flutes, he rejected them all as unworthy. It was quite
surprising what an unexpected store of poetical images
he possessed. They had lain dormant in his mind for
years, but now the hour had come and the woman,
and they all awoke from their sleep. He was just
weighing the merit of angel harps, as the least unworthy
comparison, when a rustle of silk and a light
step aroused him. He looked round with a start of
hope, and saw a woman advancing. Was it possible
that she was coming? He peered through the dark

anxiously, — yes, surely — no ; she came a step nearer,
and he recognised the plain cousin.

Mademoiselle Vizia ! " he exclaimed, perhaps
rather blankly, " is it wise of you to come out here ?
It is freezing hard ; look at the icicles ! "

Vizia did not look at the icicles, she gazed at
Kazimir steadily, and stopped only when she was
close to him. Her face was set and somewhat pale,
he thought.

Do you wish to say anything to me ? " he asked,
struck by her look.

Yes ; I want to say something to you," answered
Vizia, in a low, quick voice. " Pan Bielinski, do you
remember my words a little time ago, when the wolf
was shot ? "

Yes," said Kazimir, gravely, " I remember them."

I spoke ill of my cousin ; I said she was foolish
and absurd ; I said it was affectation. Do you remember
? "

"Yes."

I have come to retract every word I said. Xenia
is not foolish, not affected. I have come" — she
paused for a second, and flushed scarlet — " I have come
to beg your pardon."

My pardon ! " cried Kazimir, disarmed in a moment.
" You have done nothing which needs pardon ;
you were excited, and frightened, perhaps "

I was not frightened — not in the least frightened ;
it was only my bad temper. Never believe me when
I speak like that — never let your faith be shaken in
her." The extraordinary energy of her words drove
the blood np to her very hair-roots. Kazimir saw it,
and he saw also the working of her mouth, and stood
silent, staggered by her vehemence.

Xenia is better, a hundred times better than I am ;
an angel — do you understand ? " she said with eagerness,
almost with violence. " Do you believe me ? "

I do believe you," replied Kazimir, fervently. He
did not think it wise to say that he had not believed
her before, and that his faith had not been shaken,
and could never be shaken, merely by angry words.
If he felt any relief now, it was on Vizia's account,
not on Xenia's ; it was a good thing, at least, that
she possessed the courage to undo the effects of her
brusquerie. He held out his hand with a frank smile.
And now surely we are reconciled ; why is it that
we are always quarrelling? We quarrelled the very
first day we met, — about spades, and sickles, was it
not? Do you remember?"

She had put out her hand also ; but when he said,
Do you remember ? " she drew it back suddenly,
before he had touched her fingers, and turning abruptly
away, she vanished into the house.

In the doorway she almost ran against Lucyan, but

passed him without a word. Lucyan started, looked
after her, then strolled towards his brother.

Playing Don Juan ! eh, Kazimir ? You look it to
the life, I must say. The moonlight is the very thing
for your uniform, — stage decoration." He was smiling
as he spoke, but the smile was a little anxious,
and the look was a little scrutinising. " Moonlight
and a fair lady — not quite as fair as the other one,
though."

Nonsense, Lucyan ! " said Kazimir, impatiently —
and he too entered the house.

Lucyan followed his brother with his eyes. The
anxious smile was still on his face, but it was
fading already. He shook his head and shrugged his
shoulders.

No danger, I think ; just the sort of man who will
not look further than a pretty face. Confoundedly
pretty that cousin is, too ; but then — seventy thousand
florins ! Pity it is not the other way."

It was soon after this that the company broke up ;
and presently, the last guest gone, Vizia and Xenia
were alone in their bedroom.

Was it not a charming day 1 " exclaimed Xenia, all
in a glow of delight, sitting up on the bed with her
head propped on her pillow.

"Very," said Vizia. She was plaiting up her hair
at the other end of the room.

And it was better, after all, that there should have
been no sunshine ; don't you think so ? It would only
have got into one's eyes. The drive was much pleas-after
without it. Don't you think so, Vizia ? " asked
Xenia, unconsciously playing the part of the fox in the
fable. Any bunch of grapes, even the tiniest bunch,
that hung too high for Xenia's arm, always and at once
became sour in Xenia's eyes. She could not bear to
admit that she should have missed a drop of happiness,
or even a drop of pleasure, by failing to grasp
that bunch ; rather she went through life making
these little compromises with fate, and gaining through
them much ease of mind, as well as retaining much
sweetness of temper.

But this was not Vizia's manner of viewing the
grapes. The fox in the fable had always struck her
as filling the most pitiably absurd position in the
world. She preferred to proclaim boldly that the
grapes were ripe, and that they were sweet, and to
confess defiantly that she could not reach them, much
as she regretted the fact. Xenia having asked, " Don't
you think it was better without the sunshine ? " she
answered promptly, " No, I don't think it was better
without the sunshine; it would have been much
pleasant with it."

Xenia submitted at once, sank back on her pillow,
and changed the subject.

I wonder whether you enjoyed your drive as much
as I did mine ! " she began, somewhat shyly. " I enjoyed
mine so much, all except the wolf; and — and
do you know, Vizia, he, Kazimir Bielinski, was so
kind when I was frightened, he did not laugh at meat
all ; he held my hand to soothe me. Is his brother
like that also ? "

He did not hold my hand," said Vizia, pushing
aside the red rose that she had tossed on the table.

No," laughed Xenia ; " but you did not see a wolf.
And, Vizia, he seems very anxious I should not go to
Krakow ; and, do you know, this evening, in saying
good-bye, he managed to whisper, ' Shall you go to
Krakow, or shall you stay here ? ' And I answered,
I think I shall stay here ! ' "

Xenia paused ; but her cousin, standing with her
back turned, made no comment.

It was not saying too much, was it ? " asked
Xenia, humbly.

I don't know," was the short and weary answer.

"And, of course, I shall not go to Krakow now."
Xenia gave a very soft sigh. " I wonder whether the
Wieliczka ball will be good ! "

Vizia offered no opinion.

Are you tired, Vizia ? " her cousin ventured.

Rather."

Poor Vizia ! But we have had such a charming

day. Tell me, did — did — you get on well with Lucyan
Bieliuski?"

Pretty well."

Oh, Vizia ! " Xenia gave an innocently mischievous
laugh. " Why do you pretend not to understand
me ? Everybody noticed it. Come near me, close tome
; you have not kissed me yet," said Xenia, turning
her head on the pillow, and stretching one beautiful
arm towards her cousin. " Every one noticed it,
Vizia ; and Kazimir Bielinski noticed it too."

How do you know ? " asked Vizia, slowly.

Oh, because he said it. I think he was pleased
with it. Do come nearer me, Vizia ! "

Vizia came across the room and knelt beside the
bed.

Just fancy," whispered Xenia, putting her arm
round her cousin's neck — "just fancy how charming
it would be — two brothers, and we are like sisters,

you know — if we were to " she broke off in alarm,

crimsoning at the boldness of her own thought ; but
Vizia understood.

That shall never be, Xenia ; my part of it shall
never be. Nothing can force me to marry Lucyan
Bielinski ! "

But how do you know ? How can you tell yet ?
Are you not afraid of saying that ? "

Afraid ! What do you mean ? "

I don't know what I mean," said Xenia, beginning
to yawn ; " but I should be afraid to say that. I am
rather afraid of Lucy an Bielinski, I think. He only
spoke to me once this evening. I had got my fan
entangled in my fringes, and he got it out for me. It
was very troublesome ; I wanted to tear it out, but he
would not let me. He went on unwinding it quite
quietly, and said, with such a queer smile, * I never
give up a thing that I have once taken into my head
to do'"

And he got out the fan ? "

Of course he did. He is really agreeable, you
know," added Xenia, afraid of having hurt her cousin's
feelings. " You and he ought to suit so well ; you
are both grave. I am sure you like him."

I hate him," said Vizia, calmly.

Oh, Vizia, you are joking ! He is very different
from his brother, of course. How sleepy I am
getting ! "

Vizia seized her cousin's hand, with a sudden look
of eagerness. " Tell me this, Xenia — only this one

thing ; do you " she was gazing deep into Xenia's

eyes, but those eyes were closing slowly.

Do I what ? " she murmured, in sleepy accents.

Never mind ; go to sleep, my darling." The
fringe of lashes touched the cheek already. Vizia
remained on her knees gazing at her cousin in spell-vol.

I. P

bound admiration. " No wonder ! " she thought as
she gazed — "no wonder!" One long plait of chestnut
hair fell over the coverlet, the lips were softly
parted, the beautiful brow was unruffled. She bent
over the hand she still held and pressed one kiss upon
the round white arm. It was so fiery, that kiss, that
the blue eyes opened once more. Drowsily, like a
child half awakened, Xenia stretched out her hand
towards her cousin's face, moved over it caressingly ;
then the hand sank down, and the blue eyes shut
again. With the smile of a happy child on her face,
Xenia was asleep.

Vizia, rising, crossed the room with her bare feet,
and stood for a moment beside her bed ; then all at
once she turned and threw herself upon it, hiding her
face deep in the pillow. So still she lay thus, and so
motionless, that had it not been for the tightening
grasp with which her fingers clutched to the coverlet,
she might have been thought asleep. Presently her
frame began to work ; she trembled, and her breast
heaved ; with her face thus buried in the pillow, Vizia
was sobbing convulsively. She drew the covers up,
hoping to choke the sound of her sobs ; she swallowed
the bitter drops, and buried her face deeper, biting
her pillow between her teeth in the frantic effort of
self-control. But this energy of grief was not to be
controlled. She gasped and panted in the convulsion

of weeping, starting at the fiery heat of her own tears ;
for she was weeping with all the strength of a strong-heart
shaken to the very core. And through it all
Xenia slept on, in the sweet slumber of a happy
child tired out with a long day of pleasure.

Yes, — she loved him ; boundlessly, passionately, and
hopelessly. She loved him, and she had loved no
other man before ; she loved him, — and he loved her
cousin. With fierce pride she had battled against this
love for months, and with this same fierce pride she
confessed that she had battled in vain. As she had
been too proud to surrender then, so was she too proud
to deceive herself now. She hated everything that even
distantly flavoured of mockery or sham, she abhorred
any evasion from the stern bitterness of truth.

And her pride was not only stern but morbid ; and
in this morbid pride lay the key of her nature. She
had never forgiven fate for having made her plain, but
neither had she ever attempted to persuade herself
that she was otherwise than plain. No plain woman
had ever so vehemently and so bitterly hungered after
beauty than did this plain woman. Of course there
are plain women who shine in society by their manners,
by their conversation, by their intellectual charms.
If Vizia had so willed, she might have shone in that
way ; but here it was her morbid pride which interfered.
For fear of appearing to strive for a thing

which had been denied her, she rigorously abstained
from making herself agreeable ; for fear of appearing
to wrestle against fairer women for the attraction of
men, she flew to the other extreme and became
austere — became, in fact, far more unamiable than
nature had ever intended her to be.

For one short week, barely one week, she had
thought that what she had never dared to hope for
was going to be given her after all ; but that dream
had been short. As now, recovering from her burst
of grief, she lay on her pillow exhausted, reviewing
her situation, she knew also that it had been sweet.
To turn her back upon an enemy was to her an impossibility.
Stripping off every particle of hope that
might obscure her sight, she looked her fate in the
face ; and though her lips were quivering, her teeth
were set.

It was strange that she should have held out so
long, to break down so suddenly ; and yet it was not
strange either. That moment in the moonlight, standing
alone beside Kazimir, had been too dangerously
sweet. Had she not overtaxed her strength when she
stepped on to the moonlit verandah where he was standing
alone ? Even had she never seen him before, that
tall and graceful figure, leaning with folded arms against
the pillar, might have taken her fancy by storm ; —
having loved him for months, her courage had tottered

and failed. Thinking of the hopes she had been mad
enough to foster, during that first short week of their
acquaintance — of the charm, the gaiety, and the earnestness
of their first talk; thinking, above all, of
that moment when, half laughing and half moved,
his lips had touched her hand, — she had felt now a
stab of pain, as though a dagger, striking her heart,
had wounded it.

"Do you remember?" he had said to her a little
while ago. Did she remember ? God ! would she
ever forget ?

CHAPTER XII.

CARTES OUVERTES.

"And how like you this shepherd's life, Master Touchstone?"

As You Like It.

Night so relish, ware redlicher."— Lessing.

The N curojjoeticon had not done its duty. Madame
Bielinska had not become twenty years younger, she
had not been restored to muscle and cheerfulness, nor
had she grown " astonishingly nimble " — all of which
transformations had been pompously predicted in a
flowery advertisement. The relapse which took place
about this time proved to be a serious one. Day by
day the patient was sinking, slowly but surely : the
doctor could name no probable term of duration, but
neither could he hold out any hope.

Strangely enough, the weaker Madame Bielinska
grew, the more feverishly anxious did she become on
the subject of money matters and business. She made
more than one attempt to renew that discussion with
Kazimir which had been so abruptly broken off. It

was almost as though she had some thought weighing
on her mind, and that she was anxious, and at the same
time a little reluctant, to impart this thought to her
eldest son. At any rate she had never succeeded
in the attempt. Either Lucyan happened to be in
the room, or aunt Eobertine arrived to enforce her
authority, and to draw a veil over the sick-chamber.
The veil was always drawn with a more savage zest
when it was Kazimir who was in the question ; for
Kazimir's nature and manner, and voice even, were of
the very sort which grated most upon his aunt's feelings.
His repelling openness of character, and tactless
frankness of speech, were continually jarring upon her
sight and hearing. Only yesterday he had offended
her finer sensibilities by mentioning aloud at table
the fact of his mother having dined off the wing of a
chicken. If repeated, to what endless misconstructions
might it not give rise as to the state of Madame
Bielinska's health ! how might it not misrepresent
their income and their manner of living ! Mademoiselle
Eobertine had never read Pickwick, and
therefore could not know to what a dangerous use
even chops and tomato-sauce may be put in a court
of justice. Her caution was entirely intuitive. And
this proclamation of the chicken's wing was by no
means his blackest offence. It was more unpardonable
still, when, on knocking a china vase off the table,

he had laid bare one of her pet mysteries to the light
of day. " I am sorry it is broken," Kazimir had said,
picking up the fragments ; " but, dear me ! how does
this big key come to be there ? " There was a servant
in the room at the moment, and Eobertine, with a dark
frown, seized the key, and plunged it deep into the
abyss of her capacious pocket, crushing down several
pocket-handkerchiefs on the top of it. The key of a
secret treasure ? of a mysterious cabinet ? perhaps a
bloody Bluebeard's key? Not a bit of it. It was
only the key of the press where the jam-preserves
were kept ; but it was Eobertine's rooted habit to hide
every key, however harmless, in mysterious places —
and, for greater safety, to vary the hiding-places frequently.
So mysterious were these places, and so
frequently were they varied, that Eobertine herself
generally lost the clue, and mourned for the vanished
keys in secret. If she had disliked Kazimir before
the adventure of the broken vase, she positively hated
him from that moment, and with all the more vigour
did she strive to exclude him from the sick-room.
Kazimir himself, seeing his mother's great weakness
and increasing irritability, made no endeavour to
obtain solitary interviews ; he could not avoid agreeing
with Lucyan, who declared that every business
conversation must now be harmful. He was therefore
all the more surprised, when, entering the sick-room

one afternoon, he found his youngest brother engaged
in just such a business conversation.

Enough of that, mother," Lucyan was saying, as
Kazimir, not exactly noisily, but audibly, entered the
sick-room. " You are tiring yourself."

I am not," said the invalid, with some fretfulness.
"was I was saying, 34,000 to 35,000 florins is what I
can leave you, what you can expect : I want you and
both your brothers to understand that clearly. If
Kazimir cannot be persuaded to leave the army, then
you will have to take the management, for Marcin is
useless." A violent fit of coughing interrupted her
here, and Eobertine seized the opportunity to clear
the room of all intruders.

This was the first moment that Kazimir had ever
felt his curiosity aroused with regard to business.
Why was Lucyan allowed to talk business if he was
not? He taxed his brother point-blank with the
question. Lucyan was surprised at the attack, but
had recourse to his ivory comb, and having passed it
several times through his hair, he answered coolly :
My dear Kazio, if you had had your ears open you
would have heard, as you entered, that, instead of encouraging
the subject, I was begging her to drop it."
That was true, reflected Kazimir ; Lucyan certainly
had been discouraging the subject just as he appeared
on the scene. But his curiosity was not yet pacified.

He began reproaching his brother with treating him
like a child, and with keeping him in the dark. Lucyan's
answers were both sensible and good-natured ;
and Kazimir having, in his new-born curiosity, put
the question, " Why, for instance, do you keep those
account-books from me, as if they were state secrets ? "
began to feel a little ashamed of his fit of ill-humour.

There were grounds for his ill-humour, however. It
was now more than a fortnight since the fox-hunt, and
he had not seen Xenia again. In his mother's critical
condition he could not well leave the house for six
hours at a time, even had the state of the thawing
roads permitted it. One day, when she appeared to
have rallied, he had made the attempt; for he felt
that, after what had passed between Xenia and him, it
was necessary to come to a clear understanding ; but
his attempt had failed miserably. Stuck fast in the
melting snow, with one of Aitzig Majulik's "grand"
horses turned dead lame, he had been thankful to reach
home again on any terms ; and here, unable to move
from the house, yet excluded from the sick-room, heled
a useless and helpless existence.

His fit of bad humour was therefore excusable — at
any rate Lucyan excused it. Instead of resenting the
unvarnished question, he gave a courteous and strikingly
frank answer. Before giving this answer, Lucyan
paused for a moment, drawing the comb slowly

through his hair, and throwing an eagle eye over all
the bearings of the situation, like a practised general
who reviews his forces, and weighs the pros and cons
of covert or open tactics. That mental glance was
clear, shrewd, and quick; and the decision, being
fixed, was boldly acted upon.

Why are these account-books kept from you, as if
they were state secrets ? " he repeated. " Well, Kazio,
I am delighted to hear you talk in this tone. I did
not keep them from you because they are state secrets,
but because I thought they would be bores. If you are
curious on the subject, or — anxious, why, then, you
shall not only see the account-books, but the whole
estate, inch by inch, if you like." Apparently Lucyan
had decided for the open tactics.

Would not the account-books be less trouble ? "
suggested Kazimir, a little staggered at being taken so
literally by his word.

Of course you shall see them ; but practice first,
theory afterwards : besides, Kazio, if you are to be a
farmer some day, you must not talk of trouble now."

Yes, but " began the disconcerted Kazimir.

No buts, mon cher Kazio ; nothing like acting on
an impulse," said Lucyan, who never in his life had
acted upon any impulse whatever. " I had better
take you over the ground immediately."

Do you mean tomorrow ?" asked Kazimir, ruefully.

I mean to-day, now, at once. To be sure it is a
little muddy, and we shall have to drive about in a
peasant-cart; but a farmer must sacrifice a few pairs
of boots as price of his apprenticeship."

Now, — at once ! " repeated Kazimir, aghast.

Of course," said Lucyan, in his smooth, slow, almost
languid way ; for he never spoke fast upon any
occasion. " Why, Kazio ! what has become of your
zeal 1 ? I was beginning to hope that there was the
staff of a farmer in you, after all."

Kazimir, out of pure shame, had to submit. Met
by this startling frankness, his curiosity suddenly grew
cool. The more ready Lucyan showed himself to
initiate him into all the secrets of the estate, the less
anxious did he become' for the initiation. But there
was no escape now. He found himself hurried into
an uncomfortable peasant-cart, where, seated upon
straw, they began to splash through the mud. The
day was not only damp and raw, but drizzly at intervals
; and from every branch and roof half-melted
snow was dropping. Kazimir secretly wondered at
his brother's equanimity under the trying circumstances.
Lucyan, who was generally as afraid of getting
his feet wet as any woman, now calmly suffered
the splashing and the drizzle, — keeping not only his
good-humour, but talking in an almost cheerful strain.
"When Kazimir faintly suggested umbrellas, as a slight

alleviation of their sufferings, Lucyan suppressed the
idea at once, for umbrellas would only embarrass their
sight, and he wanted his brother to have a good
general view of the grounds.

This certainly beat any military hardships hollow,
thought Kazimir, after two hours' endurance. A march
on horseback would be a luxury after this. Lucyan
was an indefatigable mentor : every ten minutes the
cart was stopped, while Kazimir stood in the rain
and listened to minute explanations as to the value
of single potatoes, or microscopical proportions of
wheat and corn. He bore away with him a very
distinct idea as to the difficulty of hitting off the
exact moment for taking up the potatoes in autumn,
and putting in the grain in spring. It appeared to be
all but impossible not to be either too early or too
late. Then there were the pigs, for instance, and the
cows. It was ruin to a farmer should he lose a batch
of them, but then it did not seem that there was very
much to be gained if they lived. As a general rule,
he was to bear in mind, that a fruitful year was not
really preferable to a barren year ; for if in the latter
there was too little to sell, so was there too much
to sell in the former; the market was glutted, and
the prices went down.

Next there came the Projrinacyas, the most important
feature of the estate, as Kazimir had heard from

his mother. These spirit-shops, of which almost every
second bouse in the village owned one, were each tenanted
by a ministering and tattered Hebrew, who held
his lease from a larger, less tattered, and more important
Hebrew. This important Hebrew, Naftali
Taubenktibel by name, held in his turn the lease direct
from the mistress of the place, and having proved
himself an honest and faithful servant, had long since
grown grey on the estate.

Well, Jacob," said Lucyan, entering the first of
the dirty spirit-huts, followed by his reluctant brother ;
how goes your business ? No better than usual ?"

No better — Panie, no better at all," gabbled the
Jew in reply. " Ah, it is a miserable time for spirit-sellers
!" Of course Kazimir could not know that it
always is a miserable time for every Jewish spirit-seller.
" What rent does he pay % " he asked, with an
heroic effort at evincing interest, for the Propinacya
was the only thing which at all presented a distinct
idea to his mind.

"You will see all that in the account-book," said
Lucyan ; "we must go on ; " and Kazimir, thankful to
escape from the choking atmosphere, left the hut, and
found himself plunged at once into a field of slushy
snow.

We have done enough for to-day," said Lucyan ;
the rest can wait till tomorrow. It will be shorter

to walk home across the field than to drive round
in the cart. I suppose you don't mind about your
boots ? "

Kazimir, whose spirit was broken, and whose boots
were already so full of water that they could not
well be fuller, answered that he did not mind, and
walked on dejectedly; while two paces ahead Lucyan
stepped along lightly through the mud, humming a
cheerful tune to himself :—

Savez vous planter les choux,
A la mode, a la mode ;
Savez vous planter les clioux,
A la mode de chez nous ?"

Has one got to do this sort of thing often ? " inquired
Kazimir, rather moodily, when they were halfway
across the field.

Often ! Oh, well not so very often ; once or twice
a-week S"

Isn't it rather hard work ? "

"Perhaps, when you are not used to it. But you
who are so much stronger than I am, will get to bear
the fatigues of farming wonderfully, no doubt."

The fatigues are great, then ? "

Not so very great j you have to get up at four, of
course."

But you get up at eight," objected Kazimir.

Ah, but I have been bred up to the business ! I

could direct out of an arm-chair ; you will need to be
on the spot at first, till you have got your hand in."

And how long would that take ? "

Not so very long ; a few years — five, perhaps ! "

Kazimir groaned.

Cheer up, Kazio," said Lucyan, amiably ; " it is
not as hard as you fancy. With strong health, untiring
energy, constant application, and judicious management,
I daresay you will — after a little experience, of
course — manage to get along not much worse than
your neighbours. Here we are at home."

"Five years of constant application and judicious
management," repeated Kazimir to himself, as he satin
his bedroom, mournfully pouring the water out of
his high boots. "I'll be shot if I look at another
potato-field in my life ! "

He had heard so many explanations that he remembered
none. All he knew was that he had been
dragged half over the estate in the rain, and had
returned splashed up to his eyebrows with mud, to
find that, for the last hour and more, his dinner had
been slowly congealing on the table.

At the same time Lucyan was changing his boots
up-stairs. " I wonder," he reflected, " whether Kashmir
will be very keen, about those account-books tomorrow
? "

Leaving his room in search of his cold dinner,

Kazimir found himself confronted by his aunt. She
stood on the threshold, holding one hand in her
pocket, and fixing her nephew with an impressive
stare. "Anything the matter?" he inquired, carelessly
; for not only was he hungry, but those impressive
looks had long lost their effect upon him.

Not exactly the matter," said Eobertine, slowly.

Has anything happened then, or not ? " he asked, a
little impatiently.

Not precisely happened, either."

Kazimir began to feel anxious.

My mother is not worse, is she ? "

I will not go to the length of saying horse"
answered Eobertine, unable to miss so good an opportunity
for throwing out a dark hint. " On the
whole her head seems better — on the whole, I say ;
but her feet are perhaps less well."

It is not about my mother, then ? "

I cannot say that it concerns your mother —
directly."

Aunt Eobertine, you have news for me."

In one sense — yes ! "

It was a baffling answer. " I suppose," thought
Kazimir, resignedly, " that she will dole out the information
slowly during the next few days." That was
precisely aunt Eobertine's desire; but unfortunately
the circumstances of the case demanded haste.

vol. i. Q

Is the news good or bad ? " he asked, with growing
patience.

That depends how you take it."

Kazimir's patience gave way. " Aunt Eobertine, I
must know what this means : do you intend to keep
me waiting for the explanation till next week ? "

Eobertine smiled gloomily. " Who knows where
you may be next week ! "

Aunt Eobertine ! " she was slowly drawing a paper
from her pocket, disclosing it inch by inch. Kazimir
made a grab at the paper, caught it, — it was a telegram,
and unfolding it, he read these words —

"Lieutenant Bielinski, instantly rejoin regiment
Orders for march expected?

Chapter XIII.

THE CARDS ARE SHUFFLED.

Marlborough seen va-then guerre,
Mironton, mironton, mirontaine ;
Marlborough seen va-then guerre,
Qui sait quand il viendra ? "

Xot so loud, not so loud," whispered Eobertine in
an agony, turning a bunch of keys into impromptu
castanets, in hopes of drowning her nephew's voice :
don't you know that the apothecary's boy is in the
house ? "

Instantly rejoin regiment," repeated Kazimir, rather
louder than before. In the first moment of surprise,
he was not quite sure whether it was a shock of joy or
of disappointment that he felt.

Orders for march expected ! " That meant war,
action, glory perhaps, — all that he had always longed
for : on the other hand it meant a farewell, an eternal
farewell to his mother; and it meant something else,
it meant another farewell, a very bitter and very
sweet one — a farewell to Xenia.

He was all in a tumult of excitement; unable to
distinguish clearly what his feelings really were ;
but through the midst of the tumult one thought
stood upright. He must see her again, only once
again, before going ; he must speak one word to
her, even if to speak that one word required that
he should wade to Lodniki on foot through the
mud.

He bean in hot haste to calculate the hours that
remained to him. The order was express, and Kazimir
was far too thorough a soldier even to contemplate the
possibility of delay. To-morrow night at latest he
must start; it was dark now — scarcely twenty-four
hours remained to him. " It must be done," thought
Kazimir, setting his teeth. " It shall be done ! "

The evening was an agitated one for the household,
for in spite of Eobertine's efforts to hush up the whole
matter, the truth had leaked out. The news was
slowly broken to the invalid. Lucyan expressed
much polite concern; and Marcin languidly remarked
that, according to his opinion, life was a great deal
too short for cutting ourself up in warfare. Bogumil
attempted to look more indifferent than he felt.

We might have time to do the second half of
the estate to - morrow forenoon," suggested Lucyan,
obligingly.

On no account," was the almost vehement reply.

I am going to drive to Lodniki, and say good-bye
there."

Oh, just as you please," said Lucyan, and he left
the room.

Father," began Kazimir, on impulse, " I will tell
you why I must drive over to Lodniki tomorrow."

I never questioned you," said the old man, somewhat
irritably ; " I never asked you to tell me anything."


But Kazimir did tell him, all the same ; not in
order to ask for his consent — for, never having had
any one but himself to look to, Kazimir had acquired
the habit of asking help from no one — but merely asa
dutiful attention.

Bogumil shook his head and sighed wearily, repeating
the old formula, which saddened Kazimir each
time ; he was a cipher, and his sons must not look to
him for advice. The words sounded cold and feeling-less,
but Kazimir did not fail to see that his eyes
were dim ; and, mightiest symptom that could be, his
pipe had gone out unnoticed. There had always been
a peculiar though tacit sympathy between father and
son. With all their dissimilarity, there was much
resemblance. Without his military training, Kazimir
might have been as passionate, as reckless, and as
ungoverned as his father, though never such a weak
mixture of uncalculating selfishness and improvident

generosity ; with such a training, Bogumil might have
been a stronger man.

Kazimir slept little that night ; every hour he awoke
with a feverish start, wondering whether it were not
daylight already, and time to start for Lodniki. He
heard the rain dripping on the roof, and he knew that
each one of those drops was making the roads deeper
and heavier ; each was an obstacle the more, building
a rampart between him and her.

In the morning he looked from the window: alas ! it
was raining still ; the road was a stream of turbulent
and muddy water. The whole country was flooded with
melting snow. Kazimir's courage was very resolute,
but even he felt staggered ; was it possible that he
could be back from Lodniki in time to reach the
station and catch the night train? Everybody told
him that it was not possible. At the mere mention of
driving, his brother laughed : " If you said swimming,
it would be more to the point," said Lucyan.

"Well, then, riding?" said Kazimir, desperately.
To Lodniki I must go, whether I reach it alive or
dead!" He would listen to no arguments, and he
would be beaten by no obstacles. The least bad of
the two carriage-horses was saddled for the first time
in its life, and Kazimir galloped off through the rain,
hardly knowing that it was raining.

He was not quite unconscious of the apparent

insanity of his conduct, but he did not feel as if he
could go to the war without having said one word to
her. His mind was quite made up, and his plan was
fixed — he was going to stake everything upon one
card. He wanted only to put a question to Xenia ; he
wanted only to ask, " Do you love me ? " And should
the answer be "Yes," then he would put a second,
Will' you wait for me'* He did not mean to bind
her by a positive engagement, for, young as he was,
and impulsive by nature, Kazimir had learnt a few
lessons already. He knew that she was poor, and
that he was poor; he had heard of an aunt with
ambitious ideas. It did not discourage him in the
least, but it made him more careful. He had tasted
the bitter flavour of poverty already — in small sips, it
is true, but still he had tasted it ; for he had served ina
cavalry regiment among rich comrades (those were
the flowery times of the Austrian army), and he himself
had been a poor man among them. It had cost
him much effort, and several slips, before he had learnt
that a lieutenant who owns fifty florins a-month, cannot,
even for the sake of camaraderie, keep a carriage,
and dine off game and truffles every day, without
getting inconveniently short in his cash.

This experience, though unpleasant, had served to
temper his natural imprudence. No, he would not
bind Xenia to anything but a tacit engagement : if

she loved him she would wait for him; and in the
meantime, silence ! He had told the truth to his
father, but to no one else. Towards Lucyan he had
grown reserved. It was not only that his passion, in
proportion that it deepened, grew less expansive ; but
ever since that talk between the brothers in the sledge,
and Lucyan's general remarks upon women, Kazimir
had felt a strange reluctance to recurring to the subject.

Horse and rider were soaked in mud, when, towards
eleven, they stood before the door of Lodniki. Pawel
stared hard at the strange apparition, but Kazimir was
perfectly callous to that look of astonishment. Was
everybody at home ? No, Pan Eogdanovics was not
at home; he was busy with his new machine for
digging out roots ; but the young lady was in the
drawing-room.

The young lady — ah, which ? He did not stop to
ask, but rapidly entered the house and the drawing-room,
while Pawel, slowly following, wrung his hands
at the muddy trail on the floor.

The young lady was there ; she was bending over a
table. She turned — and it was Vizia.

I beg your pardon," faltered Kazimir ; " I am only
here for a minute — for a moment. Do you think I
could say a word to your cousin ? "

Vizia stood staring, scarcely less staggered at the
apparition than Pawel had been.

Pan Bielinski, what has happened ? what is the
matter ? My cousin is not here ; but please sit
down," she added instinctively, for, after all, she was
a Pole.

Thank you," said Kazimir, sitting down on a red
velvet chair, while the wet began trickling from his
hair over his face, and out of his very sleeves on to
the cushions. " I have just ten minutes to spare," and
he drew out his watch.

But you cannot see Xenia," answered Vizia, still
somewhat bewildered.

Why not ? She is not ill ? For heaven's sake
tell me the truth ! "

She was quite well when I heard from her last."

Heard from her ! " A cold suspicion seized upon
him. " Where was she ? " he managed to say.

She is at Krakow. She went there last week."

Impossible ! " In the first shock of surprise, Kashmir
got to his feet, and stood as immovable as if he
were meditating a rush straight to Krakow. "Are
you sure, Panii Vizia ? "

Of course I am sure."

He stood with his hand to his forehead, trying to
collect his thoughts into a distinct shape. Never fora
moment had he contemplated this possibility. Ever
since she had whispered, " I think I shall stay here,"
he had blindly believed that she would stay. At

Krakow ! It was very natural that she should be
there, and yet it sounded to him very strange at that
moment.

Slowly and mechanically he sat down again, for it
struck him that his conduct must appear rude.

There was silence for a minute. It took fully that
minute to blunt the first keen edge of disappointment.
He would have to pass through Krakow tomorrow
night, so there was a shred of hope remaining after all.

At Krakow ! " he repeated aloud ; " but she said,

at least I thought " he broke off, and looked at

Vizia somewhat wistfully. He had come here with
the very words he had to say trembling on his lips,
and he felt that they would not let themselves be
thrust back thus roughly. Might he not glean some
hope by questioning her cousin ? Vizia was just the
sort of sensible and intelligent woman who ought to
make a first-rate confidant. He had felt drawn to
confide in her on the very first day of their acquaintance,
and that recollection gave him the courage to
speak now.

Panii Vizia," he began, " do you think I should
be able to see your cousin when I pass through
Krakow ? "

But where are you going to ? "

"Did I not tell you? To join my regiment — to
the war ! "

She made no answer, but she started and turned a
little pale.

That is why I came here to say good-bye ; but
perhaps I can see her — Mademoiselle Xenia in 
? Do you not think so ? "

I daresay you can."

I want to see her very much, if only for a moment,
before I go. Will it be difficult ?"

I really cannot say."

But you can tell me where to find her."

I can give you the address."

I hope my sudden appearance will not be disagreeable
to her ? "

I hope not."

It is such a strange feeling, is it not, to go off this
way without knowing whether you will ever come
back again ? "

I suppose it is strange."

At any rate," — and Kazimir smiled, — " it is a comfort
to know that I can go this time, instead of standing
behind a tree and watching the others start." He
looked at Vizia, expecting some such sign of sympathy
as she had shown on that first day, three months ago ;
but no such sign came, and suddenly it struck him
that she was changed. It had never struck him before.
During these three months he had seen her often, exchanged
greetings, and good-byes, and passing words ;

but never another conversation. For the first time
again he found himself alone with her ; and without
hesitation, he had attempted to take up their acquaintance
on the same footing. He saw no reason for the
change : he was not changed towards her ; his sentiments
were as friendly to-day as they had been then.
He could not know that they had appeared then, to
Vizia's inexperienced eyes, to be more than friendly.
But Vizia's eyes were experienced now. Having seen
him beside her cousin, she wondered at herself forever
having mistaken that other manner for anything
but an amicable interest. Kazimir's manner was, in
one sense, his misfortune. It condemned him to go
through life as an imposture, — an innocent flirt, who
killed his victims with an excess of kindness. In this
age of polished deceits and polite falsehoods, — when
striplings languish with ennui, and beardless boys can
find nothing to smile at under the sun, — a nature fresh
and earnest like Kazimir's is a far more dangerous
nature than that of the most hardened worldling that
ever breathed. He was too busy a man to be vain,
yet few male flirts accomplished more havoc than did
this true-hearted young man, with his unlucky warmth
of tone and glances, and his unfortunate propensity for
making the best of any man or woman he met.

His friendship was almost as ardent as another
man's love ; and his love, — Vizia, in her limited experience,

had never seen anything which approached
the fervour, the fire, and the entirety of his love. She
had watched him, and she had seen how his eyes had
hung on her cousin's lips — how he had thrilled at her
laughter, — how his words had wandered when unexpectedly
she entered the room, — with what reverence
he touched her hand, or even any object which belonged
to her. Vizia had seen it all, — and only since then had
she understood the man, arid seen her mistake.

Kazimir felt the change, and wondered. She had
chilled his confidence ; and it was not till he rose to
go, that, all at once, the words broke from his lips —

Panii Vizia, you know why I must stop at 
? "

Vizia was standing now, — they were both standing ;
and that hard set of her features had all at once given
way to a look of painful agitation.

Yes," and she met his eyes ; " I know why you
must stop."

Your cousin is like a sister to you : can you give
me any hope ? "

Her lips contracted, and she frowned. " Don't ask
me," she said, hurriedly ; " how can I say ? "

But you advise me to stop, do you not ? "

She paused one moment, and paled by another
shade : she had never recovered her colour from the
first.

Yes' she said, with energy ; " stop at Krakow, —
by all means stop."

Thank you, — that gives me hope ; and now, goodbye.
Will you not wish me success 1 "

I wish you success in the war." She smiled a
rather ghastly smile.

And at Krakow, what do you wish me there ? "

I wish you"— she would have said " success," but
her conscience cried within her — " Hold ! you do not
wish that in truth." " I wish you happiness," she
finished faintly.

The terms were synonymous to Kazimir.

"Thank you," he said, and with cruel warmth he
pressed her hand. " Will you think of me sometimes ? "

She nodded, not choosing to trust her voice ; for
even had she said no more than the one word " yes,"
that one word might have been said at the cost of her
dignity. And he turned and left her. And if on the
way there he had not been aware of the rain, he was
conscious of every single drop that fell on him now.
The sky was of a dismal grey ; the road was deserted,
save for a solitary peasant who sang, as he waded
through the mud —

Krakowiaczek eden
Meal Koniku sweden,
Meal Koniku sweden,
Pojehal na wojnu
Zustal sie mu eden."

(A Krakau peasant had seven horses, had seven horses. He went to
the war and there remained only one. )

"Two o'clock," said Kazimir, as he entered the
house. " Great God ! in an hour I must be gone."
He stood still, for he heard his name pronounced.
His mother's door was ajar. He went up to it:

Are you calling me, mother ? "

Kazio, come here ; I am alone, come quick." He
groped his way forward. " I must speak to you before
you go. Are you going now ? "

Not for an hour yet."

Are your things packed ? "

Nothing is packed."

Well, listen then. Go and finish everything, and
when you are done, the last thing before you go,
come here to me. I must see you alone; I want
to speak to you. There is something that I must
say to you before you go." She held her son's hand
and looked at him with a long and wistful gaze.
You understand me, Kazio ? You will come tome
soon?"

I shall be back in ten minutes, mother," and
Kazimir hastened to his room, tore off his dripping
coat, and began stuffing cravats and boots into his
portmanteau.

There was a sound at the door, and he looked up
hot and flushed, with his wavy hair all falling into his

face. Lucyan was standing in the entrance, most
irritatingly cool and self-possessed. He held in his
hand a little packet of paper-covered books.

Oh, you have not done your packing yet ; I
thought you might have time to look over these
account-books which you wanted to see. This is the
account of the Propinacyas, and these are the wood
accounts, and this "

Kazimir sprang to his feet, clutching a handful of
collars and tossing the hair out of his eyes. " In the
name of the devil, Lucyan, keep your odious books
to yourself! Do you wish to drive me mad, or do you
not ? "

Now don't fly out at me, Kazio," laughed Lucyan.
"You said yesterday that you wanted to see them."

"And I say to-day that if you so much as mention
them again in my hearing, I'll do, I don't know what,
but something violent at any rate. Don't you see
that I am half out of my senses between all these
things ? I can't get half of them in : everything has
got twice as large as it used to be, except the portmanteau,
which has got twice as small."

No wonder, if you stick things in in that barbaric
fashion. Good gracious ! muddy boots and collars
combined — this will never do ; " and Lucyan, pocketing
the account-books, began very deftly folding out
some ill-treated shirts.

Oh, they're used to that," said Kazimir, as he
rolled his best Attila into a round hard ball.

I suppose we shall not see you for years again,"
remarked Lucyan presently, as he bent over the portmanteau.


H — m, yes, — perhaps, — I really don't know."

See that you bring back plenty of laurels and
dozens of decorations : you might bring back a scar or
two ; that would do no harm ; it is just what you need."

By way of embellishment ? "

By way of disfigurement. Don't stare, Kazio ;
that is exactly your fault. At the present moment
you are just a shade too handsome, several shades too
young, and several shades more too cheerful."

"I look uncommonly handsome just now, don't I ? "
asked Kazimir rather grimly, as he eyed his heated,
dishevelled, and mud - spattered image in the glass.
Positively fascinating, I declare, especially in my
shirt-sleeves."

"I am not joking," said Lucyan, with his quiet
smile. " There, give me those stockings. You are a
handsome boy at present, and boys are not the fashion
nowadays; now, if you could look a little weatherbeaten,
or rugged, or haggard, or get a good slashing
scar across your nose — or if you could undergo some
severe mental anxiety, or shoot a man in a duel and
become a prey to remorse, or see a ghost, or lead a for-vol.

I. R

lorn-hope, or even only get your heart broken, — you
would see how that would improve you."

I don't think I am going to have my heartbroken,"
said Kazimir, with a rather confident smile ;
but I have no objection to leading a forlorn-hope, if
I am lucky enough to get the chance."

The effect would be equally satisfactory in either
case, I have no doubt."

Thank you ; and what improvement are you in
want of?"

I will do very well as I am, I fancy. I am not
handsome, nor have I any ardent wish to be so ;
except sometimes when I have moments of envy for
your looks, mon free"

Lucyan was wonderfully candid and wonderfully
complimentary to-day, thought Kazimir ; the impending
separation must have caused this change of
manner. He himself could not honestly say that
he had ever envied his younger brother anything —
neither his looks, nor his disposition, nor his tastes,
nor even the chance of winning Vizia. "We are
very different, of course," was all he could say.

Of course we are, — you are a Pole and I am a
Greek: there lies the whole difference. Why, here is'
Marcin ; is he going to offer help in the packing ? "

Marcin had wandered in by the open door, and after
stumbling over one hat-box and sitting down upon

another, observed, as he contemplated the wreck, that
it is the last straw that breaks the camel's back.
Then he lifted a boot from the floor, gazed at it fixedly,
dropped it, and wandered out again.

He is as vague as ever," said Kazimir ; " and do
you know, Lucyan, he goes on just the same about
pill-boxes and medicine-glasses. What can it mean?
I can't imagine."

You have very little imagination then," said
Lucyan, who was attempting to lock the portmanteau.
"Here, Kazio, you must kneel upon it, or it
won't close. Make your mind quite easy about the
pill-boxes : it is only that he sees black eyes on every
lid and pink cheeks in every medicine-bottle.

Marcin in love ! " exclaimed Kazimir, as he knelt
on the portmanteau.

"I did not say that," answered Lucyan, with a
shrug ; " but undoubtedly he is flirting with the
apothecary's very vulgar and very pretty little daughter.
It is a harmless occupation, you know, and will
do as well as anything else to keep him amused."

Though Lucyan was on his knees, with his head
bent, as he tried the key, Kazimir knew that his
brother was smiling ; and the thought of that unseen
smile once more grated upon his sensibilities. It was
again one of those moments when he discovered with
a start that he had not succeeded in getting fond of

his brother; not yet succeeded, that is to say; it
could only be a question of time. Was it his own
fault, perhaps, that the process demanded so very
much time?

Is that key not turned yet," he asked, impatiently.
I have barely a quarter of an hour, and my mother
is waiting for me."

No, it is not shut yet ; press harder. There is
plenty of time ; the carriage won't be round till three."

Four, five, six, seven, eight, nine," counted Kashmir.
" It will take quite six hours to reach the station
with the roads in this state. I am running myself
pretty close as it is."

I assure you you are not — (can't you make yourself
a little heavier? this lock is as obstinate as a
mule), — your watch must be fast. Now that the
packing is done, you would even have time to throw
a look over those accounts."

"Lucyan, don't forget what I said," interrupted
Kazimir, glowering down threateningly from the top
of the portmanteau.

Well, if you won't, it is not my fault, remember
that. But some day when you have to take the estate
into your hands "

( That I shall never do, rest assured ; I have quite
enough with the trial I gave it yesterday."

But if you ever happened to marry, for instance ? "

Ah, that has nothing to do with it," said Kazimir
with a bright flush. The idea of giving up his profession,
even for the sake of Xenia, had never occurred
to him. If she loved him, she would be ready to bea
soldier's wife. "It is more likely you will settle
down here."

Possibly," — Lucyan bent lower over the lock, — " I
might even say probably."

Very probably," repeated Kazimir, with emphasis,
as he thought of the evening of the fox-hunt, of the
Krakowiak, and the red rose presented to Vizia.

It does not surprise you, then ? "

Not in the least," and Kazimir again thought
of the red rose. " I am not quite as blind as you
imagine me, Lucyan."

Ah ! " Lucyan bent still lower. In their respective
positions neither of the brothers could see the
other's face.

Well, I don't mind telling you that my wishes do
lie that way. They say, you know, that a farmer
must marry."

Especially if he is smitten," agreed Kazimir.

Who said I was smitten ? " Lucyan hastily moved
his head upwards, and gave his brother one piercing
glance. Kazimir was quite at a loss to read that
glance ; and before he had attempted to do so, Lucyan's
head was down again.

Yes," he was saying, in his usual voice again, " I
am smitten, deeper than you think." The last words
were beneath his breath, and Kazimir did not hear
them.

It touched him most strangely to be taken even
thus far into his brother's confidence. They seemed
to have changed places for the moment — the reserved
Lucyan to have grown expansive, while Kazimir, the
communicative, was listening to a confidence, instead
of imparting one. For the moment he asked himself
whether he, on his side, should not tell his brother
of his hopes and of his project. He was about
to speak, but something checked the words ; at the
thought of Lucyan's smile he shrank back with a
feeling of aversion, and locked up his hopes within
himself.

I wish you may get what you want," was all he
said. "But, Lucyan, in heaven's name, is that key
-not turned ? Give it me ; I will have it round in a
moment."

There, I have just got it," said Lucyan, with a
final twist.

There were barely ten minutes to spare. Kazimir,
with all possible haste, finished his arrangements and
left the room.

Aunt Eobertine met him in the passage. She had
considerably softened since she knew that she was to

be rid of him so soon. At this moment she was
almost smiling.

Yes," she said, " you can go in to your mother.
She is alone now ; but no noise, and no agitation."

Closing the door softly behind him, Kazimir entered.
He was alone with his mother at last. The
room as usual was half darkened, and in the dim
light Kazimir could barely distinguish the figure of
his mother on the sofa. She made no movement as
on tiptoe he approached. She made no movement
yet when he reached her; she neither put out her
hand nor turned her head on the pillow.

Mother," whispered Kazimir, as he bent over
her ; but he saw that her eyes were closed, and
they did not open at his whisper. He looked nearer ;
her breath was coming soft and regularly, — she was
asleep.

"She will awake in a minute," thought Kazimir,
and he sat down beside the sofa. As his eyes got
used to the darkness, he distinguished his mother's
features more clearly. Lying thus asleep, with her
face in perfect repose, she looked younger than she
had looked for years. The hair, though streaked with
silver threads, was still of a jetty black at places, and
the spotless skin by contrast appeared of a waxen
whiteness ; the fine chiselling of the straight Greek
features came out with almost startling delicacy under

the hand of wasting disease. Never had Kazimir so
vividly realised what his mother's past beauty must
have been, as at this moment when he sat gazing at
the motionless face, printing it off on his memory
as a picture which should never fade. One hand w T as
beneath the coverlet, the other hung by her side ; it
was wasted almost to the bone, and the heavy rings
were slipping on to each other. One of them had
dropped to the carpet.

It was a picture painfully beautiful ; it wrung
Kazimir's heart with the bitter feeling of farewell.
He dropped his face into his hands unable
to look longer, and he sat thus, waiting for her to
awake.

One minute passed, another passed, and she slept
on softly. He looked up again with some uneasiness,
and drew out his watch. The time was all but up.
With his watch in his hand he sat and waited ; there
was no other sound but that gentle tick-tick. In
another moment it was drowned by the rattle of
wheels at the door. There was the bustle of luggage
being carried through the passage and down the steps.
Surely that would awake her? Kazimir rose and
leant over her again ; but she breathed on softly in
her exhausted sleep. What was he to do? Awake
her, and tear her from this healing slumber into the

terrible reality of parting? Could she bear it in
her feeble state ? Would it be kindness or downright
murder ? He scarcely knew which. She had wanted
to say something to him ; she had wanted to speak to
him alone. Kazimir wondered what it could have
been, — perhaps, after all, only an invalid's fancy.
Surely it would be more merciful to spare her the
last dreadful embrace.

He was still standing thus uncertain, when the door
glided open, and Lucyan whispered hurriedly, " Quick,
Kazimir, quick ; your time is up."

I am coming," said Kazimir. " Mother," he said
once more ; and then, as she did not move, he paused
for one moment, and, kneeling down on the floor, he
raised the wasted hand and kissed it. Not even the
hot tears which fell on that hand roused the invalid
from her deep slumber. He stood up and turned
resolutely away, though he could scarcely see the
door for the mist before his eyes. He knew that
for this parting there would be no more meeting here
below.

The early dusk was falling when a dying woman
started up from her sleep, and cried out, " Where is
my son ? Oh, where is Kazimir ? There is something
I must tell him ! "

But her son was far on his way by that time, and
her weak voice could not call him back.

It was too late to give him the warning, so long,
half-shamed withheld, and which, had it but been
uttered, might have altered many things in his life.

CHAPTER XIV.

KING AND QUEEN.

. . " I'll speak to her,
And she shall be my queen "

Mri/roN.

It was quite dark when Kazimir reached Krakow next
evening. The streets were full of rolling carriages,
and the houses shone with lights. " What a gay
town ! " he thought, as he stared out. He drove
straight to the address which Vizia had given him,
and rang the bell with all the fury of hot haste.

After a torturing interval, a maid-servant looked
out leisurely.

Are the ladies at home ? " asked Kazimir, anything
but leisurely.

The ladies at home ! " The swarthy servant stared
at him, as if this supposition was of the most insane.
What ladies are at home on the last day of the carnival
! "

He had never reflected that this was indeed the last

day of the carnival : he remembered it now. So they
were out ; but they might not be far.

Where are they, then ? "

Where else should they be but at a ball ? "

"At a ball, of course," said Kazimir, with a pang
of disappointment. " But where ? Is it near ? "

The girl laughed impertinently. The idea of not
knowing where the ladies were ! Why, where everybody
else — everybody belonging to the society, that is
to say — was to-night. Where else but at Wieliczka,
attending the splendid festivity which his Imperial
Highness had arranged in the salt-mines !

Imperial Highness — splendid festivity — salt-mines !
The words darted in by Kazimir's ears through Kazimir's
brain. The salt-mines were seven miles off.
For a minute his spirit sank and his courage flagged,
but in the next they rose again. He had made a rapid
calculation, and found that he could still reach Wien
and return in time for the next train. " Thank
you," he said, with a suddenness which rather astonished
the impertinent servant-girl ; and ten minutes
later he was on his way to Wieliczka.

It was a very close run, but it stood within the
bounds of possibility ; and in Kazimir's present state
of mind, anything short of flying seemed feasible. He
reached Wieliczka after a short eternity, and found no
difficulty in being directed to the salt-mines. The

road which led there was crowded, and the entrance
most brilliantly lighted. " Card of invitation, please,"
said a voice beside him, in a quick mechanical tone,
which betrayed the weariness of having repeated this
question several hundred times that evening ; and
Kazimir turning, met a pair of expressionless eyes,
and saw a hand stretched out towards him. He had
never stopped to consider this emergency. Of course
he had no card of invitation, — no one had invited
him, and no one expected him ; but the thought of his
helplessness only fixed his resolve. Every obstacle
made him more determined that he should not be
conquered.

The expressionless eyes were still fastened on him ;
the gloved hand was still mechanically held out.

Drawing himself up to his fullest height, and gazing
steadily at the man, Kazimir, with great distinctness,
answered, " I have no card of invitation."

The expressionless eyes began to show a little expression,
— they looked surprised.

But without a card you cannot enter. "

I must enter," said Kazimir, with a calmness born
of his despair.

But your dress " and the man threw a glance

down the figure of this mud-and-travel-stained hussar.

Oh, that is all right," said Kazimir, haughtily.
Let me pass."

But the Archduke "

It is just the Archduke that I must see ; he knows
me well, do you hear ? " Kazimir had once, at half a
mile's distance, caught sight of his Imperial Highness's
highly imperial back.

The man looked staggered, though he still protested.

But my orders are strict."

I daresay, but my business is urgent. It is on
account of the war," said Kazimir, with magnificent
vagueness. "I take the whole responsibility upon
myself; let me pass ; it will be the worse for you if
you do not."

The official, thoroughly intimidated, shrank to one
side, feeling an undefined impression that this imperious
stranger must, from the very fact of having
no invitation, and of being splashed with mud from
head to foot, be some extremely exalted personage,
else surely he would not dare to stalk past the barrier
in this undaunted fashion. On second thoughts the
official was inclined to think that he must be some
near connection of the Imperial family, and that his
business was probably some secret mission connected
with the impending war.

There was some little delay before Kazimir found
himself safely landed in the lower regions, and caught
the sound of music, and was almost blinded with the
glitter around him. In the long passages there were

strange figures, standing in rows — mountain spirits
they seemed to Kazimir — with the orange light burning
over their forehead, and their hammers and pickaxes
by their side. He passed through a double row
of these workmen, and seemed to be walking into an
endless cavern of crystal, which divided at every turn
into smaller and various-sized caves.

The music sounded nearer every moment, and the
lights shone out more brilliantly. Kazimir, having in
great haste traversed several long passages, started
back suddenly as a louder burst of music, and a
brighter glare of light, warned him that he was near
the ball-room. In the ball-room he dared not show
himself in his present plight; for, in spite of his
unflinching replies to the official at the entrance
above, he knew well enough that his Imperial Highness
was celebrated for possessing an eagle eye with
regard to any deficiency in military adjustment; and
the sight of a muddy hussar, making a blot upon the
brilliancy of shining salt-columns and sparkling
candelabra, could not have escaped him.

He retreated into the passages, scanning every
person anxiously, but seeing nothing but strange faces
and unknown figures. He spent a quarter of an hour
in these regions, having often to step aside into a niche
as some party of chattering and brightly dressed
women passed him. Refreshments and flowers were

carried by ; officers without a spot of mud upon their
uniforms, and with magnificently stiffened moustaches,
clinked past ; and yet not a face came that Kazimir
knew. At the end of that quarter of an hour he began
to contemplate the possibility of failure. Might he
not wander about here for hours without getting even
a clue to Xenia? He had reached a comparatively
solitary spot now; the little chapel cut in the rock
where, once a-year, a solemn Mass is held. Two
figures knelt upon the steps, — hooded monks, with
heads bent and hands clasped in prayer. Kazimir
would have wished to shake one of them out of his
devotions, and send him as a messenger to Xenia.
But, alas ! the monks could not help him ; for, like the
steps and the altar, the ceiling and the walls, they
were of solid salt. Tor centuries their salt hands had
been clasped, and their salt heads been bent, and for
centuries more would they pray thus motionless. Had
he spent so much energy for nothing ? thought Kashmir,
beginning to despair. Had he carried down every
obstacle by the mere force of resolution, only to gain
this ? What ! And when he knew that she could
not be more than a few hundred yards off. No, he
would not lose courage yet ; and as if in answer to
this thought, he suddenly caught sight of a back that
appeared familiar. It was a broad black back, belonging
to a very large gentleman who was hurrying down



the passage. In half-a-dozen strides Kazimir had
caught him up, and laid a hand on his shoulder. The
man turned round with a start, and Kazimir saw that
he had guessed right : it was that amiable young giant,
Tiburtio.

Tiburtio stared hard, dropping one lavender glove
in his amazement. " In the name of the marvellous,
how do you come here?" he would probably have
said, had Kazimir left him time to speak ; but Kazimir
did not leave him time. Dragging him aside into
the chapel, he put the abrupt question, "Is Panii
Xenia here ? "

"Panii Xenia," said the giant, staring still harder.
What is that to you ? "

What is that to you ? " retorted Kazimir, with a
sudden pang of jealousy, beginning to wish that he
had not met the giant in the salt-mine. "Is she
here ? "

Yes, she is," said Tiburtio, drawing on his lavender
gloves with an attempt at supercilious triumph. " I
am going to dance the next Mazur with her."

Oh, you are, are you ? " Kazimir bit his lip.
Look here : I must speak to her at any price, and you
see I cannot enter the ball-room."

I should think not," said the giant, with a smile
meant to be sarcastic.

Well then ; will you be so kind as to take a nies-vol.
i. s

sage, privately ; I beg her to speak to me out here, fora
few minutes only."

Oh, but I cannot do that."

You will do it if I ask it as a favour." Kazimir
had a remarkably steady gaze : the giant had grown
small under it already on the day of the fox-hunt ; he
grew small again now.

She could not come, you know," he faltered, " her
aunt is so strict."

Don't ask her aunt, ask her."

And the Mazur ? surely you don't want me to lose
my Mazur?"

Oh, man, man ! " cried Kazimir, with a stamp on
the salt-floor, " what does a Mazur matter ? I tell you
that I must see her ; I am going off to the war. It is
only to say good-bye, — don't you understand? I
shall probably be shot in a month."

To be sure, yes." The giant brightened up at the
idea. " Of course you may be shot."

Of course ; and if you were going to be shot, I
would do the same by you — I really would. There, go,
like a good fellow, and I shall be eternally grateful."

The giant, fairly carried away by the impetuosity
of his rival, went off on the errand; and Kazimir
paced about in a fever of impatience.

Faintly the first note of the Mazur reached his
ears, and with that first note all sorts of horrible

suppositions were engendered in his brain. Supposing
Tiburtio had not been true to his word, — supposing
Xenia had refused to come, — supposing the aunt
had interfered, — supposing — ah ! — Kazimir stood still,
rooted to the spot, at sight of the dazzling vision before
him.

Through the entrance of the chapel a beautiful
nymph was floating towards him; her feet seemed
scarcely to touch the ground, as, wrapped in misty
blue clouds, she advanced. Silver dewdrops sparkled
among the clouds, and crystal flowers flashed in
her hair and on her breast. The softest blush w r as
on her cheek, and the shyest smile upon her lips.
She was so beautiful that the bright walls beside her
seemed to grow dull ; so beautiful, that Kazimir,
forgetting his hurry, stood and gazed in speechless
admiration.

You want to speak to me ? " she whispered shyly,
as Kazimir remained dumb. How much sweeter washer
voice than he had ever before realised !

Yes," he said, still half in a dream. That figure
in sea-blue and silver seemed to his excited fancy
almost too lovely to be human. She must be a Majka,
a fairy of the mountains ; a RusseUca, a nymph of the
waters ; an Undine or a Loreley, with a Loreley's bright
beauty, but not with a Loreley's cold heart.

I hope you have not waited long for me ? "

No ; it does not seem long now."

It was so difficult to get away, just when the
Mazur was beginning ; it is the last Mazur this carnival,
you know. I am afraid they will miss me, but
perhaps I can get back before the end. What a pity
you can't come into the room and look at the dancing,
it is so delightful to-night ! " Her eyes were shining,
and her lips glowing with the animation of the last
waltz ; her hair, hanging in soft curls, had got loosened
by the movement, and strayed in charming disorder
down her back. She was panting and flushed with
triumph — her young head still in a whirl at the recollection
of the last compliment paid to her. His
Imperial Highness had deigned to express the opinion
that the girl in blue and silver was the queen of the
ball-room, and half-a-dozen voices had whispered to
her the remark in an improved form. No wonder if
the seventeen-year-old heart fluttered, and the 
blood tingled again and again. " I have
danced so much to-night ! " She looked at him wonderingly
as he still stood silent.

How beautiful you are ! " he said at last. Xenia
blushed crimson.

I think my dress is pretty," she said, with a smile
which was scarcely coquettish. " I copied it from the
Journal des Demoiselles.' I was not quite sure
about the flowers, so I wrote and asked, and the

answer was, ' Camellias blues avec poudre crystalline.'
They give questions and answers every week, you
know."

"It is the most beautiful thing I have seen in
my life."

Eeally ? And oh, do you know, Pan Bielinski,"
she gazed at him with large and earnest eyes, " in the
last number of the ' Journal des Demoiselles the same
that had my dress, there were two more chapters of
the story ; and do you know what the end is ? The
second ring is found, and in it there is another will,
which reverses the first ; and so Palmerieie has got no
choice but to take the poison she has discovered in a
hole of the wall. The number just breaks off when
she is raising the poisoned goblet to her lips. And
Barbarin "

Barbarin be d d ! " burst out Kazimir, all at

once recovering his full senses.

Oh, Pan Bielinski ! " she started a step aside, " I
have never heard you swear before, — and we are in a
chapel, too ! "

I beg your pardon a hundred times ; I beg it a
thousand and million times," said Kazimir, feeling
perhaps that he was acting ungratefully by Barbarin,
who in the months past had proved a faithful friend,
and done him many a good turn.

Of course they were in a chapel, and he had no

right to disturb the devotions of those two salt-monks
beside them.

You must really forgive me ; I have gone through
a good deal ; I have tried so hard to find you. I went
to Lodniki first, thinking you would be there. Oh,
Panii Xenia, why did you not stay there ? You said
you would."

I meant to stay." Xenia looked at him somewhat
fearfully. " I really meant to stay, but my aunt
wrote me such an urgent letter to come for the three
last balls ; and even then I did not want to go. I asked
Vizia what I was to do, and she wouldn't tell me ; she
said I must decide for myself: and then a second
letter came "

"You would not have gone if you knew how unhappy
it made me," exclaimed Kazimir, bringing
down his hand somewhat violently on the polished
shoulder of the salt-monk. " I was so sure that you
would stay."

Xenia drooped her head, and shrugged one white
shoulder, pulling forward a loose curl against her
cheek. " I would not have come out of the ball-room,
if I thought you would talk so angrily to me." Her
under lip was quivering, and Kazimir, on the instant,
called himself a brute.

tl Pardon me again, only once more; it is only I
who am to blame. You are an angel of sweetness and

kindness, to come from that lighted ball-room, where
you are admired and worshipped, out to me here, only
because I asked you."

Oh, but that does not matter," said Xenia, while
the pout melted quickly to a smile. " I shall be back
again before the Mazur is done. I was told that you
wanted to speak to me very much."

Do you know why I want to speak to you now at
this moment, and in this hurry ? "

No." She looked up, startled by the sudden change
in his tone.

It is because I am going away."

Are you ? Where to \ "

I am called off to my regiment, and in a fortnight
the war may be declared."

You are going to the war ! " the blue eyes dilated
with alarm.

Yes, that is why I begged you to speak to me. I
wanted to see you to say good-bye."

Oh, don't go, don't go ! " she cried.

I wanted to see you, Xenia, because I cannot go
away without telling you that I love you."

Xenia shrank back in fear ; but Kazimir, with growing
vehemence, went on. " You may not have guessed
it, I have not betrayed it before ; but on the first day
that I saw you, I knew that the world had been empty
for me till then. I had never guessed that there could

be such happiness as what I felt when I met your
eyes. I love you, Xenia; there is no word that can
tell you how I love you. Believe me only that you
are more to me than sunshine, light, and life itself;
believe me, Xenia, — believe me, it is you are the sunshine
of my heart and the ideal of my life."

With one white arm thrown round a salt-column,
Xenia stood and looked back at him — shrinking,
blushing, and trembling, as for the first time in her
young life she listened to the tale of love. And
it was a wild and fiery tale she listened to; for
Kazimir had given reins to his passion, and it ran
away with him at headlong pace. It seemed that
never till now had the meaning of that one word
Love been understood, and it appeared that everything
which had ever been celebrated under that
name was mere weak imposture compared to this
feeling. He went on to tell her that his love was
deep as the sea and countless as the stars of night,
and to wish that he had the blood of ten thousand
men to shed for her sake. The metaphors were, to
put it mildly, imperfect; but fortunately neither of
the two people concerned was calm enough to analyse
words, for she was dizzy with the delicious
agitation of the moment. She could make no attempt
to stop him ; but remembering the short measure of
his time, Kazimir, with an effort, checked himself.

Listen, Xenia — tell me this : Is there any other
man whom you — God, must I say it ? — whom
you love?"

No — oh no' faltered Xenia, sinking her burning
face.

"Thank heavens!" he muttered. "And tell me
this still : Your friends want you to make a rich
marriage ; do you want that too ? "

Oh no ; not at all." She raised her head and looked
at him quite openly. It was impossible to doubt fora
moment the answer of those innocent blue eyes.
They were as pure and as candid as the eyes of any
child. " I never thought of that at all."

I knew it," cried Kazimir's heart, exultantly.
She is an angel of disinterestedness ! "

And there is no man you care for?" he persisted,
while the figure of the wealthy Tiburtio flitted through
his mind. " No man who is richer than I am ? "

"None — none at all," she repeated.

And," — he came a step nearer and took both her
hands, — "Xenia, I have not known you long; but I
have thought sometimes — I have dared to hope— that
you cared for me, Xenia. Was I right — is it so ? Is
it indeed so?" He was straining both her hands between
his own ; he was striving to read an answer under
the downcast lashes. Xenia was trembling from head
to foot. The passionate tremor of his voice, and the

intensity of fire in his eyes, were so new and strange
to her as to be almost alarming. It frightened her to
find herself loved in this terribly earnest fashion. Her
lips were quivering ; while the necklace of crystal
beads flashed up, and grew dull, and flashed up again,
as they rose and fell upon her panting breast.

Is it so, Xenia — is it so indeed ? " urged Kazimir,
and he bent to catch her whisper. It was all he could
do to hear the one word " Yes."

That syllable was the key which opened the gates of
paradise upon earth ; without hesitation or reflection
he threw his arm around her and kissed her. Oh the
fire and the sweetness of that kiss ! All the world
seemed to fade around him ; nothing to be real but
this one spot on which they stood ; no one to exist
except these two, and those salt and silent witnesses
of the scene. Ah ! now would be the moment to defy
every earthly prejudice — to kneel down on the salt-step
before the salt altar, to shake one of those hooded
figures by the arm, and to cry into his ear — " Arise, old
monk, and wed us ! " Alas ! alas that it could not be !
This very moment, when all the world seemed distant
and dim, was just the moment when they must respect
its laws. With a tremendous effort of will, Kazimir let
go the hands he held, and made an attempt — a rather
late attempt — at calmness. In the momentary silence
that ensued, the strains of the Mazur fell upon their ears.

Xenia, you have said Yes ; that is enough forme
; it is more even than I dared to hope. I am
quite content to wait now, for years even, if necessary
; but I hope it may be sooner. I will try and
explain what I mean. I am a poor man, as you know,
and it would be ungenerous of me if I were to take
advantage of your innocence and inexperience to bind
you to a poor man's life. Soon I shall have made
my way — this war will help me to make it — and I
shall then be in a position to claim you ; but it maybe
years instead of months. I do not want to bind
you, my darling, but if you love me you will wait
for me. Is it not true ? "

"Yes," whispered the trembling girl; " I will wait.
Will it be long?"

I have told you that it may be years. Is that
too long?"

Oh no, I don't think so."

Are you quite sure you understand me, Xenia ? "
said Kazimir, struggling all the time to quell his
passion. "I do not ask you to give any promise ;
but when I come back some day and ask you to
marry me, you will not be frightened, will you?"

No, I won't be frightened," said Xenia, shrinking
at the plain word " marriage ; " " we can speak of that
then, you know. Oh, I hope this is not wrong ; what
would my aunt say? I wish Vizia was here ! "

I am sure I don't' said Kazimir between his
teeth.

May I tell Vizia ? " she asked, anxiously.

Tell your cousin, of course ; she will help you
and advise you ; she has guessed it already. Good
heavens, my time is nearly up ! "

Must you really go to this dreadful war ? " The
ready tears started to her eyes.

I must ; and if I should not return "

Oh, don't speak like that ; " she clung to him for a
moment, and the tears sparkled on her lashes and fell.

I will not say a word to distress you. There is
only time now to say good-bye."

I am so glad I gave up the Mazur," she whispered.
I really don't mind losing it at all."

Oh yes," he said, with a start. He had forgotten
just then that there were such things as Mazurs in
the world. He was wondering whether he could not
pass the rest of his life in the salt-mines ; but alas !
again, this also could not be.

It is good-bye, now — really good-bye. I do not say,
Don't forget me ' — I know you will not ; but " — he
hastily detached a small coin from his watch-chain
" keep this as a memory of to-night — keep it till
I come again ; and, Xenia, let me have something in
exchange — anything, a flower off your dress — it will
help me to wait."

Yes, but not that one," said Xenia, as he prepared
to pluck one of the crystal blossoms ; " here is
one that will not be missed. And must you really go ?
Oh, is there not some one coming ? "

There were steps and voices approaching in the
passage. The Mazur music had come to an end.
Kazimir caught her in his arms once more. One more
kiss, one more word, and they had parted. The beautiful
nymph, drying her eyes, floated back into her
crystal cave — back to the lights, the music, and the
triumphs of the evening ; and Kazimir, having stood
and watched till she had vanished, turned to go his
own way, a way that led through the dark night to
duty, hardships, and danger — who knows ? perhaps
to death.

In the deserted chapel the saline monks prayed
on with their salt-heads bent and their salt-hands
clasped just as though there were nothing in the
world but salt ; nothing as sweet as a lover's kiss,
nothing as bitter as a lover's parting !

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

■ ■

I
ml H

I H

■

■

^m

■HI

3 0112 045853089

HP"



SBHSHR

■

JHlllli



Jn

mam I

OF THL

University

Of ILLINOIS

Q311V,

A NOVEL

BY

E. D. GEEAED

AUTHOR OF * REATA : WHAT'S IN A NAME '

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. IL

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXII

All Rights reserved

Cr3l\i-

CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME,

PART J.— (continued.)

CHAP.

CONTENTS.

III. LUCYAN PLAYS HEARTS, .

IV. LUCYAN PLAYS DIAMONDS,
V. A SMALL CARD,

VI. A SINGLETON,
VIL PAY TWO TO MY QUEEN,








continued.)

Chapter XY.

CLUBS AND HEARTS.

Herr, dunkel war der Rede Sinn."

—Schiller.

A Collier, who had more room in his house than
he wanted for himself, proposed to a Fuller to come
and take up his quarters with him.

Thank you," said the Fuller, " but I must decline
your offer ; for I fear that as fast as I whiten my
goods you will blacken them again."

Marcin laid down the book from which he had been
reading, and leant back exhausted.

Well ? " said Janina, looking up with a broad stare.

Well ? " repeated Marcin, " don't you see ? "

Well ? I say : what about it ? "

But it is exactly like us ; doesn't it strike you ? "

"I don't feel struck at all."

How strange ! It struck me at once when I came
across this book, and so I brought it with me, although
my memory is usually very good for these things, but
this was rather long to learn by heart."

He leant back again on the wooden bench, and
stared up through the wooden trellis-work at the pale-blue
sky above. There was a promise of spring in
that sky, though it was still so early in March ; there
was a whisper of unborn violets in the breeze, a prophecy
of apple-blossoms in the sunshine. But as yet
it was but prophecy and promise ; tantalising visions
which awakened vague yearnings ; poetry hovering
through the air, while prose clung to the earth.

In the little back-yard of the apothecary's, there
was nothing but prose and mud. The geese stalked
about through mud, instead of over frozen ground;
the rickety arbour in which Marcin sat opposite
to Janina, looked as if it had been steeped in mud.
The rosy - faced cherub who ushers in the Polish
spring is a very muddy cherub indeed; even the
flower - bunches which fill his chubby hands are
mud-bespattered and dripping.

Plead that again," said Janina, who was busy
smashing up old seltzer-water bottles with a hammer.
I didn't understand half you said." Bound the foot

of the rickety arbour there was a half-finished decorative
border, the exact nature of which would at first
sight have defied conjecture. An outsider could
scarcely of his own unaided faculties have discovered
that these round and shining brown ornaments were
nothing more than the turned-up bottoms of seltzer-water
bottles, driven side by side into the ground.
Janina's ingenuity had by no means been exhausted
here ; evidences of her inventive genius were visible
everywhere. Not a bottle or box discarded by the
apothecary was allowed to sink into inaction. It was
pain to this irrepressible creature to see anything
about her, if it were only a pill-box, stand idle.
Stone jars which had once stared down from the
shelves in the front shop, but had fallen from their
high estate through some mishap, were pressed into
the service of the ravenous geese, who now ate their
mashed corn out of a broken vessel marked Arsenical
album, and drank their water out of another
designated as Opium parum. It might have been
thought, for instance, that a pair of old cracked scales,
the balance of whose mind was no longer to be trusted
as ^sculapian oracles, should have been allowed to
rust away their old age in peace ; but not so Janina.
She had found work even for this crazy old pair, who
now dangled with a tolerably bad grace from the
ceiling of the arbour — a periwinkle plant drooping

from one, and a stunted fuchsia peering out of the
other. Even the rustic dog-kennel, which stood in
one corner of the yard (Jan Wronski always kept a
dog, in hopes that it would one day go mad), betrayed,
on close inspection, its medicinal origin ; being nothing
more or less than a pensioned medicine chest
turned on its side.

Marcin read the fable again, to an accompaniment
of vigorous crashes. Each crash was a torture to
Marcin and a delight to Janina : each time the hammer
came down she laughed and he shuddered, and
she, seeing the shudder, laughed the more and crashed
the louder. At the end of the fable came an explosion
of laughter.

Ha, ha ! that is capital ! "

Yes, I think it is a capital story," agreed Marcin.

But it is just the contrary."

'the contrary of what?"

Why, of us, of course," said Janina, bringing down
her hammer again and drinking in with absolute pleasure
the ear-rending crash which followed, just as a
hardened general might enjoy the thunder of the
cannon which is to create havoc among the enemy.

Marcin began to explain his views. " It struck meas
being just like us; the first part of it, at least.
You are the Collier, and I am the Fuller."

Thank you for a pretty compliment 1 "

I am sure a collier could not make more noise
than you do, at any rate."

And do you imagine that I am requesting you to
take up your quarters here ? "

No, I don't suppose so," he admitted, beginning to
lose his footing ; " your answers always come smash
upon me, just as if I was a seltzer-water bottle. That
is not it ; I saw it quite clearly yesterday, but I can't
remember it to-day. I assure you it applies to the
situation, if one can only find out how. I think it is
you who must be the Fuller, and I the Collier."

Very well, then, it is I who have to say : Thank
you, but I must decline your offer."

Marcin pulled his moustache pensively. " That
does not seem ris^ht either. I wish I could find the
application. Colliers and fullers are opposite extremes,
are they not ? Well, we are opposite extremes
also, and extremes meet, — you can't deny that ? That's
it!"

He folded his arms, and gazed at her triumphantly,
but she did not look in the least conquered. She
threw down the hammer, and snatched up the book.

Let me have a look ; I am sure you are making a
mess of it. There, listen to this : —

' Moral : There can he little liking where there is no
likeness ! ' Why did you not read the moral aloud ? "

Oh, I never attend to morals \ but is that really

there?" asked Marcin, in some distress. "Then I
think the story must be stupid, after all; it works
quite the wrong way."

Didn't I tell you so ? " she said, with a shrug and
a pout, flinging down the volume of sop's Fables,
face downwards.

Well, it does not really matter," said Marcin,
calmly possessing himself of the hand which had just
flung down the volume ; " there is a proverb, you
know, which says, ' Birds of a feather flock together,'
that applies. It,is the opposite of the other, you know;
so one of the two must be right."

Yes ; only that birds that are not of a feather don't
flock together. What are you doing with my hand ? "

"Comparing it to mine; they seem to suit very
well."

They couldn't be more different ; there, let me go,"
she said, tearing herself away from him. " Ha ! look
what you have made me do ! " as a button cracked off
Marcin's cuff. " Now I wonder who is going to sew
it on again for you, — that I really do."

Never mind," said Marcin, contentedly ; " life is a
great deal too short to trouble one's head about shirt-buttons."


A great deal too long to go through without them.
Now, if you had behaved more civilly, I might have
sewed it on for you."

Can you sew ? " he asked, gazing at her.

Janina put her hand into her pocket, and drew out
a neat little card-board box. " No, that is papa's
powders," she said, pushing sit aside ; " he never lets
me go about without them, in case of my meeting a
mad dog." A second box was produced, inscribed,
Camomile Tea," but which might just as well have
been marked " Necessary," as it held Janina's scissors,
thread, and thimble.

How clever you are ! " said Marcin, looking on
in 'limp admiration, as, after a preliminary prick to
his wrist, by way of brightening him up, she began
fastening on the button. The compliment was acknowledged
by another playful prick.

How sharp your needle is ! " he said, wincing ;
sharp enough to go through a camel's eye, I should
fancy."

I wish you would not say such absurd things."

And I wish you would not prick me."

You need rousing," said Janina.

I am sure you rouse me quite enough as it is,"
he sighed plaintively. "You ill-use me in such a
dreadful manner ; you smash bottles close to my ear,
you pound my nerves with that club of yours, and
you prick my wrist ; and I am sure " — he looked
apprehensively towards the bag of hydrophobia
powders on the table — "I am sure you mean

to make me swallow some of those horrible powders
presently."

That's a capital idea," said Janina. " I had not
thought of it before,"

"Well, look here — I don't want to be ill-used any
longer. I took a whole lot of bitter pills the other
day, only to please you, and they gave me a most
awful headache; and I don't want to be frightened
any more with these salt-smelling things put under
my nose. I hope you haven't got any about you at
this moment. I say that I am ill-used, and I have
enough of it. The jug goes to the well till it breaks
the camel's back, don't you see ? "

Camels again," remarked Janina, biting off the
thread.

Well, don't you see what I want is that you
should become my Collier, or my Fuller, or whatever
it is ? "

Leave the fable alone," she said coquettishly, darting
him a glance of fire ; " can't you explain yourself
properly ? "

I don't think I can ; will you not help me ? "

Janina pretended to be gazing at the stunted
fuchsia overhead, which had apparently been weighed
in the balance and been found wanting, for it brushed
the ceiling, while the periwinkle trailed on the table.

Help you ? Why, you never help anybody."

"Did I not help you to pound alum the other day?"
said Marcin, reproachfully.

Oh, licht you? and hadn't I a world of trouble in
pounding it all over again ? and then, after all, it had
to be thrown away, because you had mixed up a lot of
soda with it. My father begins to doubt whether you
have the making of a medical student after all." She
darted him another glance. " Into, thank you ; no more
help do I accept from you."

But I am not asking you to take, I want you to
give ; it is so difficult to explain one's self. I tell you
that I want to put an end to all this."

An end ! " repeated Janina slowly, looking down
deep into half a seltzer-bottle.

When I say an end, of course I mean a beginning,"
elucidated Marcin.

A beginning of what ? " Janina's fingers where nervously
squeezing some of the sharp brown fragments,
and Janina's heart was thumping almost as loud as
that dull thud of the mortar which reached them
through the back-door of the house.

"Well, that is just what I want you to tell
me."

She hesitated a moment, and squeezed the sharp
fragment so hard that it cut her finger. Perhaps it
was the pain of the cut which sent that red wave to
her face.

How can I tell you anything, when I don't know
what you want to be told ? "

I want to be told how I can see you every day,
often, always, you know "

He waited a minute, and then she looked up boldly,
though she was flushed to her very eyes.

That can only be if you marry me. Is that what
you mean ? "

When she had said it, she plunged her hot face
somewhat abruptly into the periwinkle-plant which
hung so conveniently low, for she was a little frightened
at herself.

Yes, that is what I mean, I suppose ; how clever
you are ! You have such good ideas," said Marcin,
admiringly. "Yes, that is just what I mean; they
expect it, don't they, usually ? You see I was right,
after all, about the Fuller and the Collier."

' Thank you, but I must decline your offer,' — is not
that what the Fuller says ? " A pair of roguish black
eyes were flashing at him through the periwinkle
trails.

But it is you dio made the offer, you see, and I
don't decline it. It was entirely your own idea."

Lucky for you that I have got ideas ; you never
have got one of your own."

I have got an idea at this moment, though," said
Marcin, " and it is a good one too. Oh, nonsense ! you

cannot get away, you know, and you are only frightening
the geese."

The mud-bespattered cherub just then hovering
through the air, laughed with delight at what he saw
through the chinks of the rickety arbour-roof. A
solitary thrush, busy trying his voice, just to see if he
had not got hoarse during the winter, saw as much as
the muddy cherub saw, and remembered, with a start,
that he ought to be turning his mind to such things as
twigs and straw-wisps, to soft hay and wool.

You are very fond of me, are you not ? " suggested
Marcin, at the upshot of the last ten minutes.

"Yes; but I should like you better if you could
manage to make a little more noise."

But I think you make enough for two ; and there
is so much noise already in the world."

Janina shook her head. " Not half enough for my
taste. I'll tell you what would make me quite happy.
I should like to live in a big town, where carriages
pass all day and all night ; where there are plenty of
bells, and drums, and music ; and all the men in the
house would need to have loud voices, and to wear
good thumping, creaking boots, and all the women
have their petticoats starched like paper."

"Well, that is not my way at all; my motto is,
anything for a quiet life.' All the same, I will try
to wear creaking boots when we are married; but.

look here, won't it be troublesome to get married ?
How do they manage it ? "

I'm sure I have never tried before," said Janina,
with her nose in the air.

"I know what I will do," said Marcin, after a
minute's reflection. *' I'll ask my mother ; she has
been married, so of course she will know all about
it."

The thrush, still practising his notes hard by. gave
a sagacious nod, as much as to say : " I have tried it
before, and I know all about it too ; it's the simplest
thing in the world, I tell you ! "

Your mother," repeated Janina, and she looked at
him curiously; " perhaps your mother will not like the
idea at all."

Why not ? Because you make too much noise ?
You would have to be quiet when she is there, of
course. I don't know anybody else whom I could
ask, unless you asked your father."

That I certainly shall not. I won't tell him a
word until it is all settled. He is quite contented
now with the idea that you are a medical student;
but if he took fright, he might become difficult to
manage. Luckily he is deep in the composition of a
new remedy just now."

Before the arbour was abandoned that evening,
Marcin's handkerchief became adorned with a vigorous

knot. " That is to remind you to speak to your
mother," said Janina, as she jerked the knot tight.

I suppose he ought to speak to his mother," she
muttered to herself, for she was a girl who much preferred
getting what she wanted by fair and honest
means.

Mind you are here tomorrow to tell me what she
says."

With these words ringing in his ears, Marcin went
home.

CHAPTER XVI.

FOLLOWING SUIT.

'Rosalind. Then you must say,— I take thee, Rosalind, for wife.
Orlando. I take thee, Rosalind, for wife."

As You Like It.

It was on Thursday evening that this conversation
had taken place. Friday and Saturday passed,
and Marcin did not reappear. The thrush, having
begun to collect flakes of cotton, wool, strips of
medicine-labels, morsels of coloured twine, with here
and there a shred of sticking-plaster, was much surprised,
while proceeding to build a highly medicinal
nest, to see no more signs of billing and cooing in the
arbour.

Sunday came, and no member of the Bielinski
family drove over to the Tarajow church. On Monday
Madame Bielinska appeared to be weaker than
usual. Some medicine that had been ordered had
not come, and Mademoiselle Eobertine looked out
anxiously for it during the day. It was late in the

afternoon when Marcin, lounging about the passage
with both his hands in his pockets, was aroused by
the sound of rapid and resolute steps on the gravel
outside ;— click, click, click they came through the
wet. He seemed to know that sound, and in the
next moment he was thoroughly startled by the
bursting open of the door.

Janina, with a medicine-bottle in one hand, an
umbrella in the other, a scarlet petticoat tucked up
above her ankles, and a warlike stare upon her face,
stood straight before him.

Marcin gazed at her fixedly and helplessly, opposing
to her warlike stare nothing but a pale and harassed
countenance.

The medicine for your mother," she said, holding
out the bottle. The silent house seemed to quake at
the sound of her voice. Since Kazimir had gone away
the week before, no such tone had been heard under
this roof. She put the bottle into his hand. " There,
take it, and come back to me here ; do you understand
? " She shook out her wet umbrella, and stamped
about to get rid of the rain-drops. Marcin mechanically
obeyed her, and returned to where she waited.

"And now," she beiijan, "be so kind as to tell me
what all this means."

"i^ot so loud," said Marcin; "my mother is asleep."

Well, I cannot talk any other way — so just put on

VOL. II. B

your hat and let us have it out on the road ; you can
walk back a bit with me towards Tarajow. Where is
your hat ? There 1 " She clapped it down on his head,
and dragged the bewildered Marcin out of the house.

As soon as they were at a safe distance from the
windows, Janina spoke.

Well, let us have your explanation now : where is
that handkerchief with the knot upon it ? "

Gone to the wash," said Marcin.

And I suppose your memory is gone with it ; of
course you forgot to speak to your mother ? "

"Not I," said Marcin, with an air of offended
dignity, "but I almost wish I had. I hate knots
on handkerchiefs."

Janina snorted. " And why so, may I ask ? "

Because they are the beginning of misery."

Make an effort to talk sense, if you please. You
spoke to your mother, you say ? "

Unluckily I did."

And what did she say ? "

She said that I was not."

"Was not what?"

That I was not to do it."

I understand." Janina audibly clenched her teeth.
She was angry, then, was she ? "

No, I should not call it angry," said ^farcin, respectively
; " I think I should call it furious."

Did she say anything else ? "

'•' Oh, lots ; " he shuddered, as if at some terrible
recollection.

Tell me what ; speak, can't you ? " she said, with a
stamp on the wet ground. Her hand was on his arm,
and all this time she was drawing him along the road
towards Tarajow.

Oh, she said that I would break her heart, and my
father's heart, and my brother's heart, and my aunt's
heart, and, in fact, everybody's heart ; and that I would
disgrace the family."

She said that ? " repeated Janina, turning very pale.

Yes ; and she would not see at all that it was a
good idea, although I told her that it was your own
idea "

Go on," said Janina, with bated breath.

She said that you were an artful, designing girl."

'' And you listened to all this quietly ? "

Well, what else could I do ? especially as my
mother fainted in the middle with agitation, and
they thought she was dying, and sent for priests
and doctors to finish killing her."

Janina walked on a minute in complete silence,
which was a strange and alarming symptom.

It would have been better," she said half to herself,
*' if we had got married first, and asked for her
consent afterwards."

*' Oh, but it is not my mother alone," said Marcin,
it is everybody else too, — it's Lucyan more than anybody
; they all cursed and abused me, and left me no
peace. I am sure," and he gave a rueful sigh, " I
never before knew that marriage was such a terribly
troublesome thing, or I should not have broached the
subject at all."

Janina tramped on for another minute in silence.
And what did you say in answer to all this ? "

I said that I would not."

That you would not marry me, you mean ? "

Of course ; I cannot help it, you know. It is a
pity, for it was a very good idea."

And you meant what you said ? "

'' Well, yes, I suppose so."

And what do you intend to do now ? "

Nothing," said Marcin, serenely.

She stood stock-still in the mud, wrenched her hand
from his arm, and without warning or preparation, she
burst into a storm of tears. It was a perfect thunder-plump
of tears, so abruptly and heavily did it fall. At
the sight of it Marcin stood still also, bewildered, distressed,
and terrified.

Look here ; I really cannot help it, you know," he
said, plaintively. " Surely you are not going to begin
and abuse me too; I have had such a hard time of
it at home; you have no notion how unpleasant it

is to be cursed ; and just after they had all begun
to forgive me, and I was hoping for a quiet life
again."

Get away ! don't touch me ! " screamed Janina, ashe
attempted to pull away her hands.

Please, don't be in a passion ; I am not going to
give you up. Lucyan said I might go and see you as
often as I liked, and that there was no harm in my
amusing myself."

He did not say that ? " and her black eyes flashed
fire upon him.

Yes, he did ; and he said that if I married you,
you would never be allowed to come into the house,
and that they would turn me out of it, and give meno
money : and I could not live anywhere else but at
home, you know ; I am so used to it."

You shall never see me again, if you do not marry
me," gasped Janina, choking with sobs.

Oh, but you cannot mean that, you know," and he
began pulling down one of her hands. " You always
say such violent things ; you foam up just like one of
those effervescing drinks, and you are as hot and sharp
as a"

Mustard-plaster," suggested Janina grimly, through
the midst of her tears.

"Yes, that is just it; how clever you are, and how
lovely too ! Your cheeks are quite white to-day. You

have been letting concealment, like a worm in a bud,
feed on your damask cheek ; I declare I have quoted
it quite correctly. There, you must let me kiss you ;
there is nobody on the road."

You shall not kiss me until you say that you did
not mean all you said. Oh, Marcin, how could
you!"

With the same abruptness that her tears had begun,
they also ceased. She had dried her eyes vigorously,
but her breast was still heaving as she turned her
face up to him. She had never looked so pretty as
at this moment, with her baby-mouth quivering, her
face pale with excitement, and her black eyes clouded
with tears. Marcin kissed her first, and then began
to explain. " What is the use of talking about that ?
We had better drop the subject, don't you think ? '"'

How dare you " — she was beginning with another
flash of passion ; but she checked herself, before she
had said — " how dare you insult me ? " The man
standing before her did not look in the least as if
he meant to insult her. He only looked limp and
helpless, and thoroughly scared. His mother had
frightened him, and his brother had frightened him.
That immovable limpness would be proof against
any amount of fire and passion. He must be managed
some other way.

'■ I don't see why we need make such a fuss about

it," Marcin was saying ; " life is too short for all these
fusses. It only makes people curse you and say
uncomfortable things; and I think, after all, that
we were very comfortable as we were before."

And you imagine that we could go on just as
before ? "

Of course ; why not ? All I ask for is a quiet
life ; and if I am to have scenes every day, it would
be exactly like living with a drawn sword round one's
neck."

Your life would be very quiet if you had never
to come to Tarajow again."

Oh, but that will not do at all ; you can't have
meant what you said."

I did mean it," said Janina, " and I am as good
as my word. Now, what do you intend to do ? "

Nothing," said Marcin ; " I only ask for a quiet
life, and to see you as often as I like ; it is rather
like sitting between two stools, isn't it ? or else like
having your cake and eating it."

Janina looked at him and sighed with discouragement.
This passive obstinacy was far more baffling
than any active obstinacy. She walked on some
paces, with a fixed frown on her face, making snatches
at the twigs in passing. Click, clack, went the resolute
steps ; swish, swash, went the swinging petticoats
and now, bim, bam, born, broke in another sound

over the scene. It was a distant sound, floating dismally
across the wet and cheerless fields : the bell of
the Tarajow church was tolling.

There is one way," said Janina, slowly, " only one
way I can think of by which you can both eat your
cake and have it."

Marcin looked at her admiringly. " I always said
you were clever — I knew I was right."

But it is not very easy."

Shall I have to take much trouble ? " he asked,
apprehensively.

"If there is any trouble, I will take it. Listen."
She stood still again on the road and laid her hand
on his arm. There was no one within sight at the
moment; if there had been, even a distant spectator
would have been struck by the energy of her gestures
and the rapid movements of her head. There was
no one within sight ; but just round the bend of the
road there was a fissure coming alone, striding with
long steps through the mud.

Marcin listened with a dawning smile on his face.

How clever you are ! " he said again. " Do you
think it is really worth while 1 "

I have told you the alternative."

But will it not be very hard work ? "

Leave that all to me, I do not mind hard work."

Very well ; but you must not let yourself get

pale and look like a Avorm in a bud. And then, do
you think it will be safe? Women cannot keep
secrets."

I will swear it to you on the crucifix if you like ;
but, Marcin, you must promise me something in exchange."


Must I ? What sort of thing ? What an uncomfortable
sound that bell has ! " said Marcin ; " it makes
me feel quite shivery."

She raised her head sharply and listened — bim,
bam, born, it tolled across the fields. " That is the
passing-bell," she said. " Somebody must be dying,
or is dead ; I wonder who ? We have had no medicines
sent for to-day."

It is not my mother, I hope," said Marcin, turning
pale.

Nonsense ! how could it be ? We have only just
left the house. Never mind that bell now, but listen
to me. We may be interrupted any moment ; " and
so in truth they were. Before the last word had been
said between them, and while the passing-bell still
tolled out mournfully, Janina's quick eyes had espied
a black figure through the bushes. "A Jew," she
whispered. " No Jew should see us together. Do not
forget!" She was gone before Marcin had realised
that she was going, and had vanished between the
thick bushes.

Marcin looked about him, cast one glance at the
approaching Jew, and turned his face languidly homewards.
That tolling bell awoke in him a feeling of
vague uneasiness. He felt an indistinct curiosity to
know who it was that was dying. Should he ask that
Jew who was abreast of him now at the other side of
the road ? Marcin looked at him ; the Jew made an
abject inclination, and Marcin recognised the factor,
who had been absent for many weeks. Aitzig Majulik
always knew everything. He would be sure to know
for whom that bell was ringing. Marcin was half
inclined to put the question, because of his curiosity,
and half reluctant, because of his native indolence.
It was always an effort for him to address anybody,
and just now he was exhausted with talking. In the
end the reluctance had the upper hand, and Aitzig
Majulik was suffered to pass on ahead in silence.

Aitzig Majulik was walking fast, and he reached
the Wowasulka house long before Marcin. He wiped
his boots and entered, opened a door, and looked in.
When he had opened several doors in succession, he
opened the one of the room where Lucyan was sitting.

Lucy an looked up and was surprised at the sight of
the Jew, though he never betrayed surprise in his
face. '•' You are back from the Bukowina, Aitzig ;
your business has taken you long."

Yes, gracious Pan, I am back ; but there is no rest

from business for poor old Aitzig. It is not as if
Aitzig were a fortunate man like Naftali Tauben-
kiibel," and the factor gave a jealous sigh. " All the
horses to be stabled, and the hay to be bought ; and
when I went off to Lodniki with the three pair of
work-horses ordered, there was no rest for me there,
and I was sent off at once to have the passing-bell
rung (and only twenty kreuzers for my trouble !)
Ah, you don't hear it ringing from here ! "

Has any one died at Lodniki ? " asked Lucyan,
indifferently ; " a workman, an overseer ? "

The gracious Pan is pleased to appear ignorant,"
said the Jew, with a stare of astonishment. " Who is
Aitzig Majulik, that he should know better of such
things ? "

None of your whining rubbish. Who is dead, I
ask you ? "

Who else should be dead but the noble gentleman
himself, the noble Pan Eogdanovics, to be sure ? "

Eogdanovics dead ! " repeated Lucyan, incredulously.


He died this afternoon, if it so please you."

"When?"

Two hours ago. Time enough to have put him
under ground," added Aitzig, accustomed to the telegraphic
rapidity with which his own nation dispose
of their dead. 'No doubt two hours, instead of shockingly

short, seemed to him an indecently long time
for the soulless clay to linger above ground.

Was it illness or accident ? " asked Lucyan.

Accident more than illness, gracious Pan. Pan
Eogdanovics was as strong as the great Samson this
morning, and this afternoon he broke a blood-vessel
over his new machine for the tree-roots. They were
just closing his eyes as I left the house."

Aitzig spoke in a business tone ; and Lucyan, who
thought that he had come here merely to impart the
intelligence, expected to see him slink out again. But
Aitzig stood there still, picking at his ragged sleeve,
and shuffling about his bony feet.

That is all, then ? " said Lucyan, stunned in spite
of himself by the sudden shock of the news.

That is all," repeated Aitzig, in a tone which convinced
Lucyan that that was not all.

You can go, then."

Aitzig coughed, and offered another remark. " It is
a very melancholy piece of news that poor Aitzig has
had to give, and the gracious Pan was well acquainted
with the family."

"Well, what of it?"

"The gracious Pan has visited that house often
during the last weeks."

People are talking, then," said Lucyan, coolly.
Then, as Aitzi^i couched again, — "Don't make a

mystery of it, Aitzig. I know what people say.
They say that I am paying my addresses to Eog-
danovics's daughter. Supposing they are right, what
then?"

Oh, nothing then. Who is Aitzig, that he
should "

If you have anything of importance to say," remarked
Lucyan, sternly, " shut the door, and come
here."

It is of no importance to me, gracious Pan."

Shut the door and come here," repeated Lucyan.
His secret thought was : " That old sinner has something
to disclose. Surely the father's death cannot
have affected the daughter's fortune ? "

Aitzig shank towards the door, closed it softly, and
returned to where Lucyan sat.

Chapter XVII.

TRUMPED.

Listen, O Cyclops, for I am well skilled
In Bacchus, whom I gave thee of to drink."

Shelley.

The bell of the Tarajow church was hard worked in
these days. It was not more than a week after it had
been muffled in an old fur cap, and tolled for Eogdano-
vices, that the fur cap was put on again, and the rope
Alas pulled for poor Madame Bielinska. It had rung
out between whiles also, without the fur cap, but in a
quiet, discreet fashion, as if half ashamed of the sound
of its own tongue ; and none had troubled themselves
to inquire the reason. The neighbourhood had quite
enough to talk about with the two deaths that had
occurred within one week. Eogdanovics's death was
by far the most grateful subject for gossip : it was a
warning example held up by all pessimists for the
edification of all sanguinis ; it was a lesson to all
persons with progressive ideas — a lesson v*'hich taught

them the folly of attempting to do otherwise than as
their forefathers had done. The choleric old gentleman
was particularly grim. Had Kogdanovics broken
a blood-vessel in a good, respectable, old-fashioned
style — as he might have done in lifting a heavy sack
of potatoes, for instance — then his death would deserve
to be called a lamentable accident ; but as it had happened
over a new-fangled machine for pulling roots
out of the ground (instead of setting a dozen peasants,
with pick-axes, to the job), it could only be looked
upon as the finger of Providence, who had decreed that
the adventurous man should go to his grave with all
his unhatched, hatching, and half-hatched schemes in
his brain, and without setting eyes upon even a single
white post to mark the future railway. Popular
opinion, on the whole, approved of the conduct of the
orphaned daughter, who, although she gave up the
lease of Szybalin, went on living in retirement at Lod-nisi,
in company with her cousin and her aunt, come
from Krakow to join her.

The second death was by no means as interesting.
Everybody had known all winter that Madame Bien
was dying ; the only surprising point about the
matter was that lie should have lived longer than
her robust neighbour Ko^rdanovics. Neither was there
anything especially interesting about the way in which
her property was distributed : it could only interest

the heirs themselves. The way in which Madame
Bielinska had disposed of her property was very
simple : she had left Wowasulka in equal shares to
her three sons. It was her formally expressed wish
that her eldest son, Kazimir, should take the management
of the estate, paying to his brothers their share
of yearly profit. Failing Kazimir, the reins were to
fall to Lucyan. Clearly it was Lucyan's duty to put
the state of the case before his brother, transmitting
their mother's wishes. This duty Lucyan fulfilled to
the very letter. In the note which announced the
death, there was no mention of business ; but scarcely
another fortnight had elapsed when a long business
letter reached Kazimir. He was urgently exhorted to
abandon his military career, and come home to take
the management of the estate, which, at this spring
season, was particularly in want of careful administration.
He, Lucyan, did not wish to take any responsibility
upon himself, as his brother was now virtually
the head of the family. Some questions, indeed, were
so pressing, that they required immediate attention.
What, for instance, were Kazimir's wishes with regard
to the new-born calves ? How many did he wish to
have kept for breeding, and how many sold for butcher's
meat ? What grain should be substituted for the barley
that was not promising well ? The usual Wowa-
sulla luck had brought another disappointment : a

whole litter of pigs had failed ; Lucyan was afraid that
this news would much vex his brother. And then
about the lease of the Propinacyas, which would be
run out in about two months, — what were Kazimir's
intentions ? Did he not think that Naftali was getting
a little too old for the business ? And to whom
should the lease be given instead ? Aitzig Majulik
had been hungering after it for years ; but was he not
rather too low a stamp of Jew ? &c., &c., &c.

It was just about a fortnight before the declaration
of war that Kazimir received this letter. Of course
Lucyan could not foresee the peculiarly irritating
moment at which his epistle was destined to reach
his brother's hands. Kazimir's hands, in fact, were
just then deep grey of colour, and oily to the touch.
Warlike preparations have their prosaic as well as
'their poetical side, and the business of spending a
whole forenoon in reviewing the bridles and bits of
a detachment, scrutinising and fitting it each in turn
to the most appropriate horse, leans undoubtedly towards
the prosaic.

Eighteen bridles and eighteen bits had passed through
Kazimir's hands that morning, and eighteen more were
waiting for their turn — not to speak of a looming background
of boots standing in rows, each waiting to be
married to a corresponding pair of feet, under the vigilant
eye of the lieutenant. What wonder, then, that

VOL. II. c

the unpromising barley fell upon rocky soil, and that
the melancholy bereavement in the pig-sty was dismissed
with an expression as heartless as unfortunately
it was profane?

The answer to that delicately pink and sweetly
scented epistle (alas ! now smudged with unsightly
smears) was written in a white heat of hurry — in an
interval snatched between the bridles and the boots.
Do exactly what you like," wrote Kazimir ; " and for
heaven's sake settle the pigs and the barley and the
Propinacya for yourself ! 1 have never set eyes on Natal,
and don't care whether he is old or young. As forgiving
up my career, unless you wish me to call you
out, you won't mention it again. I know that I make
a good soldier, and I know as certainly that I should
make a wretched farmer." Kazimir, as he wrote this,
thought of the first and last taste of farming he had
had, and shuddered at the recollection. "I wonder
you have the courage to suggest such a thing at this
moment of all others, when we are living in daily
and hourly expectation of orders to cross the Mincio.
Everybody is excited and confused : the ladies of the
regiment are shedding tears in advance. One lady in
particular — the young wife of my captain, who is as
well my best friend in the regiment — is in a state of
great agitation. Having been married scarcely three
months, she will not even hear of the word ' separations

and declares that she will follow her husband
to Italy at any price. The women are shocked, and
the men laugh at her behind her back ; for my part,
I must say that I admire her spirit. She is a golden-haired
beauty — warm-hearted and charming."

A golden-haired beauty — warm-hearted and charming,"
repeated Lucyan, as he folded up the letter.

A fortnight later war was declared, and almost
immediately the army crossed the Mincio. The cartes
which Kazimir had given his brother secured
him peace of mind for some time to come. Letters
from Lucyan reached him from time to time on the
march, and were read by Kazimir on horseback and
off horseback, in the tent and by the road-side, on the
eve and on the morrow of engagements — lost engagements
usually, — for the reverses of the Austrian army
began early. In one of these letters there was a hint
which made Kazimir think of the last conversation
between him and his brother. It did not surprise
him to see that Lucyau's thoughts should still be
directed towards matrimony ; but he was a little
surprised that he should even thus indirectly refer
to it so soon after their mother's death. He was
yet more astonished at another letter which reached
him early in June.

It was almost on the morrow of the fatal day of
Magenta that Kazimir received this letter. It had

been his first battle, and also his first serious disappointment
in life. He had looked forward to such
a day as to a field of certain glory, even if bought by
many a painful moment. So resolved had he been
to do something brilliant and heroic, that he never
doubted his chance. Visions of the Therein Order
had floated before his mind, — it needed but that to
place him on the exalted height on which a suitor
for Xenia's hand should stand. And when the day
itself had come, it had brought him only a sort of
helpless inaction, joined to a keen sense of his own
insignificance. As for glory, he had secured nothing
but a bullet-hole through his sleeve ; while for pain,
he had had the terrible shock of seeing the most
beloved of his comrades fall mortally wounded on
the field. He was depressed, but not discouraged,
and still held firmly to that vague and undefined
heroic act which as yet was but a dream. This was
only the beginning, after all ; in the months to com,
there would be many more fields on which his laurels
could grow.

In this state of mind, therefore, he was, when he
received Lucyan's letter. It was brought to him one
evening in the camp, where the hussars were bivouacking
outside the walls of a small Italian town.
By the light of the Italian sunset Kazimir read this
letter : —

Cher Kazio, — How or when this will reach you,
I do not know, but the question I have to put before
you is so urgent and so pressing, that it cannot
possibly stand over till the conclusion of the war.
The long and the short of the matter is this, /
cannot any longer undertake the management of Woe


However willing I am to oblige you to the fullest
extent of my power, you must confess that every man
has the right to think of himself in the first place. If
you do not intend to become a farmer yourself, you
would require to appoint a competent overseer. Such
a choice is so delicate and critical a matter, that I
could not undertake the responsibility. The exact
man on whom you fix may make the whole difference
of ruin or prosperity. Perhaps you have thought of
some one yourself ? or if not, you must immediately
do something of the sort. The expense, of course, is
very great, as the salary could not be less than three
hundred florins ; nevertheless, with your small experience,
I think this course inevitable.

As for the reason of this turn of affairs, it may surprise
you, though I scarcely think it will, after my
former letters. (By the by, I wonder whether more
than one in two of my letters reach you ?) The truth
is, I shall soon have affairs of my own to manage ;
I am standing, in fact, on the brink of matrimony.

Naturally, I should have preferred that our time of
mourning should be passed ; but in Mademoiselle Rog-
danovics's present unprotected state, it would be undesirable
to defer the marriage later than August, or
at most September. Much as I regret it, I fear that
you will not be yet home by that time : this war
apparently will be a long affair, and in all probability
will drag into winter. You will understand, therefore,
why you must necessarily take some decisive step.
In the natural course of things Marcin should have
the management, but I should as soon give it to a
new-born babe as to him. He does not seem intended
for a world as practical and distinct as this. It
always seems to me as if he had got into it by mistake,
and that, somewhere or other, his own world
must be a world of mist and clouds, where nobody
ever works, and where everybody always talks in
mixed metaphors. Did I mention, by the by, in any
of my former letters, that he electrified the household
by proposing to marry the apothecary's daughter ? He
was laughed out of it, of course, and his first attempt
at matrimony will, no doubt, be his last.

"Talking of the fair sex, what is your captain's
golden-haired wife doing ? I really must compliment
you on your powers of description. The picture you
draw is so charming, that I cannot help feeling an
interest in the original. Your usual luck in such

matters follows you everywhere ; golden-haired or
brown-haired, to all you seem equally irresistible. If
I were not cast in a different mould myself, I should
be almost inclined to envy you; as it is, I am satisfied
with the less brilliant role of a quiet and steady
domestic man.

Perhaps you will find time, in the intervals between
your battles, to send me a line with a good
wish for my marriage ; although, according to my
opinion, good wishes cannot alter the case; there is
but one sort of marriage which I consider a desirable
one. My fiancee begs me to say that she hopes you
wish her well. I have no doubt you do, for you and
she used to be very good friends, I think.

Have your laurels begun to sprout yet ? I hope
to read soon of your being decorated by the Therein
Order. — Your affectionate brother,

Lucian BlELINSKI."

This letter, coming straight upon the back of
Magenta, seemed to aggravate the defeat immensely.
The news of Lucyan's engagement, though scarcely
quite unexpected, brought a shock of surprise, which,
at any other moment, would have been still more
startling. He must find time to write a line of congratulation,
for of course he wished Yizia well with all
his heart. To the marriage in itself he had nothing to

object ; but then, as to this business of overseers and
management, what, in the name of the troublesome,
was he to do ? How he wished that no such place as
Wowasulka existed in the world !

With this fervent desire in his mind, he pushed the
letter back into its envelope, and ordered his horse to
be led out. He had no time to consider the question
at this moment ; he was bound to ride into the town,
and see what he could do for the comfort of an
unfortunate woman. That golden-haired beauty to
whom Lucy an had half-jestingly referred in the letter
(Kazimir merely shrugged his shoulders as he read the
passage), was now a widow. She had arrived in time
to receive the last embrace of her husband, fallen at
Magenta; and with his dying breath the captain
had consigned his weeping and unprotected wife to
Kazimir's care.

In the upper room of a dirty and ruinous little inn
he found her, pacing the floor in a frenzy of grief.
Perhaps the very misery and poverty of her surroundings
fired Kazimir's eagerness to help. Eyes filled
with tears were never raised to him in vain; and
when those eyes were blue, their chance was all the
better. Of course they were not to be compared to
another pair of blue eyes, into which he had looked
now three months ago, — but for the sake of the association
alone they deserved his sympathy. He was

ready to do anything for this distressed widow. He
offered to write all her letters for her, he listened
patiently to the sobbed-out list of relics which she
wished to keep for ever. It was some time before he
could prevail upon her to take a little refreshment and
rest; and he left her with the promise of riding five
miles next morning in order to give verbal directions
as to the particular shape of cross for the captain's
grave. After all, had the widow been wrinkled instead
of blooming, and sixty instead of twenty, Kazimir would
have ridden those five miles all the same.

Poor child ! poor child ! " he sighed, as with a
heavy heart he descended the creaking stairs. So
exhausted was he with the excitement and fatigues
of the last days, that he stumbled over the lowest
steps. " This will not do," he said to himself. " If I
do not take some rest, I shall not be fit to sit in the
saddle tomorrow." There was an open door beside
him, and Kazimir walked into the bar-room and
asked for a glass of wine.

There is wine and wine'' said a jovial voice beside
him. " Your request savours of vagueness. Specify
}^ur wishes ; ask for a glass of vino santo, and if you
do not fancy yourself a god sipping nectar, you may
put a bullet through my head, and welcome."

Kazimir turned at the sound of the voice, though
he had recognised its first tone. This broad, red-faced.

red-haired man, with the sharp twinkling eyes, twinkling,
as it were, with a sort of good-natured cunning,
was a comrade of his ; not exactly a brother of the
sword, being the Auditor, or military lawyer of the
regiment. That rotundity of outline, and more than
rosy hue of complexion, suggested, at first sight, a
prosperous farmer, or a well-fed butcher. But the
eyes, even though obscured at this moment by the
fumes of the so delicious nectar, were distinctly too
acute to belong either to the farmer or to the butcher.
He was, in fact, that most paradoxical of all paradoxical
things — a jolly lawyer.

Here is your proper place," he cried to Kazimir,
who, nothing loath, sank down on the wooden bench.
I have ordered another bottle of the divine fluid for
myself. My notion is to wash away the disgrace of
our arms ; what do you say to the idea ? good notion,
eh ? Make the most of our time, I say ; serves those
confounded blockheads right if we run their cellars
dry before they get rid of us. The wine is too good
for the nation, that is what I say " — and the Auditor,
bringing down his hand with a thump, threw a vindictive
glance towards a further table, where a group
of swarthy Italians were drawn together discussing in
whispers, and with looks of sullen triumph on their
faces, the events of the last few days.

Ah, here is the angel of the bottle ! collect yourself

and be reverent. I have not lost much time in hitting
it off; instinct guides me. What does it matter how
bad the walls are, as long as they hold such a gem as
this ? What do you say to it ? "

"Not bad stuff," said Kazimir, absently, for his
thoughts were very far from vino santo at that
moment.

In low spirits, poor boy ! no wonder ! " The
Auditor's jolly face grew suddenly grave and almost
sober. " Ah, poor Baroly ! To think of all the scrapes
I have helped him through, and to think that it is but
four months since I drew out his papers for him, and
sent him off to get married. He was the twenty-seventh
man that I have married out of the regiment ;
they marry on an average at the rate of nearly one
and a half a-year — and they separate at the rate of
one and a quarter in four years. Poor Baroly 1 How
is she bearing up ? " and the Auditor jerked his fat
red thumb toward the ceiling.

She is half mad, I think," said Kazimir.

She is my ninth widow," said the Auditor, reflectively.
" Nine widows in twenty years. About half
the number marry again. She would knock me down
if I suggested the idea now, but in a few years, we
shall see. I think she is the most frantic of any — it
is by far the hardest case of the lot. So sudden, too !
I had not even time to draw up his will for him.

Would you not like to have your will drawn up, by
the by?"

Much obliged, — no, thank j^ou."

Well, as for poor Baroly, he had not much to leave
to anybody except that wretched yellow dog, which
has been making me shiver with its whine all evening."
He pointed towards a lemon-coloured setter
stretched asleep on the boards.

I turned him out of the room up-stairs," said Kashmir,
" because Madame Baroly could not bear to look
at him."

And he shank in here and put himself under my
protection, as the only familiar face he could see."

"I shall have to keep the poor beast, I suppose,"
said Kazimir.

Here Trappisto ! " but Trappisto lay exhausted on
the ground, his flanks slowly rising and falling, while,
from the shiver of his yellow cheek, you could almost
have sworn that he was sobbing in his dream.

That forsaken dog somehow brought the loss of his
comrade more keenly home to Kazimir. He turned
his face to the window, but here straightway his eyes
fell on a wounded horse which some soldiers were
leading past to shoot outside the town. There was no
escaping from the sadness which brooded over everything.
He leant his head on his hand and sighed
heavily.

"Now we must stop this," cried the Auditor, ina
voice thick with emotion and wine. " Cheer up,
man! these are the chances of war! Why, I have
myself lost, what with battles and fevers, as many
as "

The Auditor's utterance had become so indistinct,
that Kazimir could not make out whether he had
lost fifteen, or fifty, or five hundred men.

Seen them all die, I tell you, and most of them
without making their will. Sure you don't want your
will made? Quite sure? Can't do anything else for
you? Debts, marriage-settlements?" The Auditor
took another gulp of vino santo. " Why are you not
getting married, for instance ? The twenty-eighth on
my list you would be ; there now ! " and he leant back
with his hands in his pockets, and gazed at Kashmir
unsteadily, as if challenging him to resist that
inducement.

Talking of marriage, — my brother is going to be
married," said Kazimir, all at once remembering that
letter in his pocket.

Ah, your brother ? Pity he is not in the regiment ;
out of my jurisdiction entirely. Anything wrong
about your brother's marriage, that you look so black
about it ? Want it stopped, perhaps ? "

Oh no ; the marriage is all right : it is the consequences
for me that all are wrong."

In a scrape ? " The Auditor drew himself confidentially
nearer to Kazimir. " Have always been
waiting for this ; knew that you would get into a
scrape some day, and that I should have to get you

out of it. You would be the no, the scrapes of the

regiment are the only things I have given up numbering
; sands of the sea, sands of the sea, — that's what
they are ! Not in a scrape, you say ? What a pity ! "
His face fell considerably, and rather dejectedly he
poured out another glass of wine.

No, I am not in a scrape," said Kazimir ; " but I
am in a devil of a mess all the same."

That sounds better ; " the Auditor smacked his
lips. " Now, let us hear the case."

I do not think that I have time," said Kazimir.
I must be back in the camp directly, or I shall find
all the men starved, and all the horses run away."

Nonsense ! there is no hurry ; both men and
horses are so dead-beat that they will be thankful to
lie down on the ground and sleep. Let us hear your
case."

Kazimir hesitated. He knew that the Auditor was
both good-natured and shrewd ; and he knew also that,
up to a certain point, he grew more good-natured and
more shrewd in proportion as he grew more tipsy.
What made him hesitate now, was the question whether
that certain point had not already been passed. On

second thoughts he reached the conclusion that the
Auditor's head, even muddled by wine, would he clearer
and cooler than his own head muddled. He took
out the letter and handed it over.

It was strange to see the change which came over
the man. The hand which he held out for the letter
grasped it unsteadily, and could scarcely fold out the
paper at the first effort; but the moment the spectacles
were on his nose, and the paper spread before
him, his tipsy face settled down resolutely to the business.
Slowly he read the letter, word for word, taking
long slow sips from his glass, but never moving his
eyes from the lines. The low windows stood wide
open to let in the sultry evening air ; and with the
evening air there came in many sounds, peaceful and
warlike, from the street : peaceful, when a child's
careless shout reached the room, or when a church-bell
tolled the evening angelus ; warlike, when a
baggage-waggon lumbered past, and a mounted hussar
horse and rider white with summer dust — clattered
after it over the rough pavement. But not by any
sound in the street, or any sound in the room, did the
Auditor allow himself to be disturbed. Until he had
read the last word, he did not change his position.

Well," asked Kazimir, as he laid down the paper,
what am I to do about this wretched overseer business
? "

The Auditor looked at Kazimir, filled up his wineglass,
leant back, and observed, " That strikes me as
being a very clever letter."

"Yes, Lucyan is the cleverest of us three," said
Kazimir, with some pride.

Your brother seems in a great hurry about marrying."


Why should he not be in a hurry ? " asked Kashmir,
all the more defiantly that the same thought had
struck him, and already half repenting having handed
out the letter. The actions of the family should not
be criticised outside the family circle. Such a thing
went straight against his notions of chivalry.

Any special ground for the hurry ? " inquired the
Auditor coolly, with his head lolling back against the
wall, his eyes on the ceiling, and his hands in his
pockets.

"Of course there is ; she has lost her father, and
being an orphan, is in want of protection."

"Why should not your brother pick out an overseer
for you ? Do not see the force of his arguments
at all."

I cannot ask Lucyan to do more for me than he
has already done," said Kazimir with a little heat.
"He has been uncommonly good-natured as it is."

Capital thing, to have an uncommonly good-natured
brother," observed the Auditor, still staring

upwards. '' Well, give me a night to think over it ; I
will tell you tomorrow." He brought his gaze down
from the ceiling, and began folding back the letter into
the envelope. " Wait till tomorrow ; I don't feel inspired
to-day."

I wish I were rid of the whole business," exclaimed
Kazimir.

"Why, here is a second sheet inside; you didn't
show me that ; marked ' private,' I suppose, eh ? "

I never saw any second sheet," said Kazimir.
•' If the letter had been from aunt Eobertine, I should
have supposed it was one of her safety sheets. Where
is it ? "

Here it is, and it is not marked private either.
Old eyes are sharper than young ones, it seems."

Kazimir took the sheet and read it, while the
Auditor watched his face over the edge of the wineglass.
The clouds on Kazimir's brow were slowly
clearing, they were quite cleared by the end of the
page, he dashed down the paper on the table and
looked up triumphantly.

Thank heavens, the matter is clear as daylight
now ! here is the way out of everything ; read that ! "
Whatever reluctance he might have felt about showing
the first half of the letter, there could be no
ground for concealing this. Here was a distinct,
above-board and brotherly proposition, which should

VOL. II. D

be met iu the same manner that it was tendered,
with plain-spoken frankness.

Keep your head cool," said the Auditor, as he
applied himself to the sheet; and perhaps by way of
keeping his own head cool, he swallowed another
half-glass of wine. This sheet formed a postscript to
the letter itself, and bore a date of one day later. To
all appearances it was the expression of an afterthought,
and this after-thought bore the stamp of a
different mood.

Fas. — Since I concluded my letter, my affairs have
taken a new and distressing turn. The happiness
which seemed to be so nearly within my grasp, appears
now to be retreating, perhaps into an endless future.
I learn now, that, according to the terms of the will,
Mademoiselle Eogdanovics cannot, until the age of
twenty-four, marry any man whose fortune is less than
her own, or who cannot prove himself the possessor of
an estate bearing a certain value. As I could not
do this, even if you were to pay me out my share of
Wowasulka (which I should have to call upon you todo
at once), I fear that my hopes must be resigned ;
a girl cannot be expected to wait on indefinitely
during years, for an unfortunate man, born under an
evil star.

I can see but one possibility which might save me,
and were it not for your often expressed aversion to

farming life, I should be reluctant even to mention
this loophole.

Possessing an estate is hut a matter of form ; and if
I could prove myself the sole proprietor of Wowasulka
upon paper only, of course — there could be no opposition
to the marriage. Marcin is quite ready to
abandon me his share upon reasonable terms. Of
course I have no right to ask you to do the same;
but some of your late anathemas against agriculture
have led me to think that such an arrangement might
suit both parties.

Do not answer in a hurry ; I wish you to consider
the matter coolly, for, after all, it is you who are the
head of the family, and have the best right to the
estate. Pray consider that to hold out any hope
which you could not fulfil would be cruelty. It
will be kinder to let me know my disappointment at
once. If you remember the last talk we had together,
you will be able better to understand my anxiety. I
shall count the days till your reply comes : it will be
heaven or hell to me."

The. Pes. had a P.P.S., which was apparently an
after after-thought.

"In case, by any chance, you should consider my
proposition, I had better mention that your share of
the property, roughly speaking, would amount to
about ten or eleven thousand florins. Once again.

U> Of ILL. LIB.

I do not wish to hurry you, but the matter is very
pressing. Your signature is but a matter of form,
after all."

Well, what do you say to that ? " cried Kazimir,
with all the triumphant delight of a player who has
discovered a hidden trump in his hand. " Just when
I was wondering how I was to get rid of the whole
business : is it not a wonderful coincidence ? "

"A wonderful coincidence," assented the Auditor,
with emphasis. " I agree with you."

Then why do you stare down into your glass, instead
of expressing your opinion?" asked Kazimir,
who was himself a little staggered at the marvellous
manner in which the second half of the letter answered
the question suggested by the first.

Because I don't know your brother ; he is not in
the regiment, you see."

But he is my brother, and that is enough."

Again Kazimir felt a little sore, he did not exactly
know why.

Yes, he is your brother. Is he like you ? impulsive,
hot-headed, scatter-brained, and all the rest of
it?"

N — no, not very ; all Poles are a little scatterbrained,
are they not?" But just at this moment
Kazimir remembered Lucyan's words — " I am a Greek

and you are a Pole, that is the difference between
us ; " however, he kept this to himself.

Seems to be very desperately in love, eh?" and the
Auditor's fat forefinger tapped the sheet.

Well, I suppose so," said Kazimir, folding the
letter into his pocket-book. Certainly there were expressions
in Lucyan's letter warmer than any he had
ever expected to hear from his brother; but then it
could probably be explained by considering that " still
waters run deep," combined with the reflection that
all is not gold that glitters; for Kazimir was just
sleepy enough to mix his metaphors upon Marcin's
principle, and yet he was enough wide awake to be
conscious of a disagreeable start when he found that
he had been putting away Lucyan's letter close alongside
of the crystal flower which Xenia had given him.
The contact seemed like profanation, and, with a sort
of fearful haste, he parted them.

Lady very beautiful ? " inquired the Auditor, holding
up the bottle to the light, to see how many glassfuls
were still to be squeezed out.

She is nice-looking," said Kazimir, shortly.

The Auditor having known Kazimir for ten years,
understood from this moderation that the lady was
plain.

Your brother is not like you, then ? "

I never said he was not ; he is not a soldier, of
course, which makes a difference."

Any profession ? "

He studied the law."

Aha ! " the Auditor almost choked over a gulp of
wine ; " wonderful thing for sharpening the wits." He
winked at the ceiling, and lolled back again. His
breath was thick. Nodding his flushed face, he reeled
tipsy on the seat; but in the midst of it all, his
blinking eye was the eye of a lawyer — of a man shrewd,
sharp, suspicious almost, as he always became in
face of any real or imaginary peril threatening any
member of the regiment.

"Ten or eleven thousand florins," he repeated.
"The estate would then be valued at about 33,000.
Not much for an estate in Poland. That's your idea
of it ? "

I have not got any idea," said Kazimir, drowsily ;
but in truth his impression — an impression too vague
to be trusted — had always been that the value was
much larger. " I once heard my mother say that
something was worth 36,000 florins, but I don't know
what it was."

Queer — scarcely tallies. What is the land like ? "

I don't know anything about it ; the only thing
that was drilled into my head was, that the 
were the most valuable part of the estate,

and that almost the entire income is derived from
them."

Aha, Propinacyas ! excellent brandy they make
sometimes ; have often heard of their great value. Is
that all you know of the place ? "

Yes, that is all."

Kazimir's fingers rapped the table impatiently ; he
felt rather chilled from his first heat of exultation.
Of course I shall accept this proposal at once."

"Of course you shall do nothing of the sort. You'll
take time to think over it."

What is there to think over ? You see he says it
is only a matter of form. I am not going to play dog
in the manger, by keeping something for myself which
I don't care for, and which would at once secure my
brother's happiness. And as for the value of the
estate, why, I suppose Lucyan can make a simple sum
of division by three as well as anybody else."

Keep your head cool, that is what I say." The
Auditor's voice had reached the hiccoughing stage, but
his eye twinkled all the more shrewdly. "I insist
upon giving you my advice. I am a minor Providence
sent into the world in order to keep the brains of
scatter-brains together ; that is ray vocation. No wonder
you youngsters call me 'the Oracle;' it's hardwork,

and that's why I need to " he pointed to the

empty bottle significantly. " I'll tell you what you'll

do. Don't shrug your shoulders ; perhaps you think
that because I'm more than half tipsy I don't know
what I'm talking of. I tell you my brains are sharper
than yours at this moment. You'll write a nice long
letter to your brother, and you'll ask him, in the first
place, to show you the matter in black and white ; and
you'll sign no paper before you have seen the lease of
those Propinacyas; that will tell us their value, and
that will be the touchstone of the business; that will
trump it, in fact."

A nice long letter," echoed Kazimir, ruefully. " I
cannot do that."

Don't look down-hearted ; another glass of wine.
You don't seem to get on with the santo ; have some
nostra then — good, strong, black stuff."

No, thank you, I have no taste for ink, either in
glasses or upon paper. I cannot write that letter, I
tell you."

You can't ? H — m, h — m, h — m. Let me see ;
it looks rather interesting. You are one of the regiment,
and I am the foundation-stone on which the
regiment has been built. What should you say if I
wrote instead of you, and put the business questions
to your brother ? "

What should I say ? I should bless you till the
end of my days. But," rather apprehensively, " you
won't write to-night, will you ? "

The Auditor rolled with laughter. "I appreciate
the hint : no, I shan't write to-day ; not because brain
isn't clear enough, but because hand isn't steady
enough."

And tomorrow ? The matter is pressing, mind."
To-morrow I shall be all square again. I declare
that bottle is dry already ! "

CHAPTER XVIII.

OVERTRUMPED.

And a "brother noble,
Whose nature is so far from doing harms,
That he suspects none ; on whose foolish honesty
My practices ride easy ! — I see the business.
Let me, if not by birth, have lands by wit :
All with me's meet, that I can fashion fit."

—King Lear.

An army had stormed the fortress and carried havoc
into the very heart of the capital, destroying and
devouring everything it touched. But the army was
neither French, Italian, nor Austrian ; and the fortress
was built not of brick, nor either of stone.

The fact was, that Lucyan's favourite rose had been
ailing for some days. In vain did he water his darling,
morning and evening, with his own white hands ;
in vain did he watch her, as a mother watches her
sick child ; the beautiful rose drooped more heavily
every day, and hung her fair salmon-tinted head ever
lower. She moped and sulked, and would not be
cheered either by sunbeam or dewdrop ; she was
blind to the charms of the hovering butterfly, and

deaf to the drowsy hum of the velvet bee that buzzed
past. Strong measures were necessary ; and Lucyan,
who never hesitated to take strong measures, once
having recognised their necessity, put on a pair of
gardening gloves and examined his favourite, leaf by
leaf. The gardening gloves were a wise precaution,
for the sick child was irritable, as sick children often
are, and took a sort of peevish pleasure in pricking
and scratching its attentive nurse.

But the nurse had sharp eyes, and soon came upon
the root of the evil. It was this myriad of little green
dots, infinitely smaller than a pin's head, that were
fretting the beautiful rose to death. Smoke alone
could help here ; and therefore it came about that on
one of the earliest days of July, Lucyan was to be seen
smoking a cigarette into the face of a splendid tea-rose.
It was with infinite satisfaction that he watched the
tiny green dots growing first grey and then black, and
finally dropping in shrivelled patches to the ground.
There were plenty other roses all around: deep red,
tender pink, and dead white ; they stood behind him,
and to the right of him and the left of him. But just
now Lucyan's whole soul seemed wrapped in this one
tea-rose. The case was more interesting to him, precisely
because more difficult ; to triumph over a stubborn
enemy would be agreeable in exact proportion to
the stubbornness of that enemy.

There are men, the strength of whose intellect allows
them to attend to several subjects at a time. Lncj^an
was one of these ; and now, while operating upon the
rose, it might have been noticed that his attention
was at the same time fixed upon the stretch of road
visible, as though he were expecting something to
appear there.

Two days ago he had received a letter, and to that
letter he had not yet replied. He was not a man to be
easily surprised, yet that letter had certainly taken
him by surprise. It had thrown him considerably
out of his calculations. He had expected to have todo
only with Kazimir, and Kazimir he thought he
could manage, — and now he had found himself tackled
by a lawyer, and — as his first glance told him — an
acute lawyer. Lucyan very keenly appreciated the
point and weight of the leading questions put to him.
He felt an immediate respect, and almost a sort of
sympathy, for the man who had put them, even though
that man had thrown him out in his calculations.
Had he foreseen this contingency, undoubtedly his
plans would have been laid on a different system ; but
as he had not foreseen this contingency, and as he
was neither morally nor physically a coward, he must
carry out his plans as they had been laid. After the
first chill of surprise, his spirit rose to the emergency.
The triumph would be all the greater for the strength

of the enemy. There was a sort of keen excitement
in the question now; for it was required that he
should stake his wits against the wits of another
man, and that other man not a fool. Here also, as
with the tea-rose, strong measures were necessary.
He must substantiate his own statement, and defend
the ground on which he had placed himself. No use
in reflecting now that it would have been better to
have placed himself on other ground. Above all,
there must be no hesitation.

It had taken him one day and two nights to mature
the plan which now was fixed. A certain instrument
was necessary for working out that plan ; and as Lucyan
stood blowing out puffs of grey smoke, it was for the
arrival of that instrument that he was looking towards
the road.

The road was all but deserted. One peasant-cart
rattled past, laden with green hay ; and one peasant-woman
trudged past, her bare feet ankle-deep in dust,
while her high leather boots dangled over her back.
A third object came in view, a black, long, and lean
object. This one did not trudge past, but turning off
the road, bent his head for a moment, and peeped furtively
through the trees ; then came on sidling towards
the bush on which that tea-rose grew.

The gracious Pan desires to speak to me ? "

Lucyan jerked away the cigarette-stump, and carefully

drawing off his right glove, took the comb out
of his pocket. The comb looked a little haggard and
sworn, as upon close inspection did Lucyan himself.
They had both been severely taxed of late, and in the
midst of straining anxieties the one had sought comfort
in the other.

Yes, I shall speak to you presently, when I have
done with this rose," said Lucyan.

Just as the gracious Pan pleases. Aitzig comes ashe
is desired, and waits as long as he is commanded ;
even though he may be missing the chance of earning
some honest florins, by filling his feather-sack in the
poultry-yards of the villages."

"It will be time," observed Lucyan, drawing off
his second glove, " to complain of having lost your
feathers, when you see what exchange you have
made."

It is a hard life," said the Jew, cautiously ; " but
it is not for Aitzig to complain."

If he had looked humble before, he looked abject
now ; but every nerve was on the strain already, and
with strung and quivering curiosity he waited for
what was to come.

Lucyan bent over the rose-bush, here and there
delicately shaking off some of the clinging insects.
We are at the beginning of July now," he remarked.

The beginning of July ! so we are, so wee are."

Next week will be a busy one ; I shall have little
time for gardening."

A busy one," repeated the nasal echo, " so it will
be — what with the hay, and the sheep-shearing, and
the cattle-selling ;" at each point he shot a glance of
inquiry at Lucyan's face, to see if it had hit the mark,
but Lucyan went on quietly with his rose-bush. It
was full a minute before he observed, " The lease of
the Propinacyas will be up on Tuesday."

So it will, gracious Pan — so it will," and Aitzig
held his breath and waited for more. It was quite
certain that he had not been sent for to hear the announcement
of a plain fact, which he knew already.

Lucyan snipped off a yellow leaf. " On Tuesday,
therefore, the lease will be renewed."

On Tuesday, yes ! " Aitzig breathed a garlic-scented
sigh. " Naftali Taubenkilbel, fortunate among
the children of Israel, will have his lease renewed
on Tuesday."

Wait till his lease is renewed, and then call him
fortunate."

It is as good as signed already," said Aitzig, smiling
an unsteady smile, in hopes of concealing his
inward agitation. "!N^aftali Taubenkiibel has held the
lease for thirty-two years. Was his beard not black
when first he signed it, and is his beard not white
now, and beginning to thin out ? "

Naftali Taubenklibel can be thrown over if I
choose," answered Lucyan, slowly; and as he spoke,
he picked, with great delicacy, a shining green beetle
off the bush and dropped it to the ground. " The
lease is not yet signed for the thirty-third time."
Lucyan's heel crushed down the emerald beetle into
the gravel of the garden-path.

Aitzig struck an attitude of melodramatic surprise.

The gracious Pan speaks thus ! In what has Natal
Taubenklibel been unfortunate enough to displease
his noble master?"

Oh, nothing that I know of," said Lucyan, carelessly,
giving a final grind to the wreck of the rose-beetle.
" But I am thinking — only thinking, mind —
of making the lease change hands."

"sand who," — Aitzig's voice was hoarse with the
emotion of suspense, — " who is it that the gracious
Pan is thinking of favouring with that grand lease ? "

"There, that will do," said Lucyan, with a final
touch to the rose-bush, "we shall see how you are
tomorrow, ma telle Madame Graula ! " And with
a last lingering and tender glance, he turned from
the tea-rose to the Jew.

Follow me up-stairs, Aitzig, — I have a little matter
to discuss with you."

Like a dog at his master's heels, Aitzig followed.
He never forgot those three or four minutes that he

walked behind Lucyan. They were to him like the
lull before the storm, like the pause before the battle ;
this, he did not doubt, was the crisis and turning-point
of his life. For years and years the lease of
the Wowasulka Propinacyas had been his sweetest
ideal, and the crown of his ambition. He had yearned
for it and intrigued to get it, all in vain. Was it
possible that the dream was now to be fulfilled?
The thought made him almost giddy. But though
giddy, this Jew was too much of a Jew not to see
that some motive lay here concealed, and therefore
it was that those three minutes seemed to him so
very much like the pause before the battle. As he
followed Lucyan — who walked along without any
appearance of hurry, pausing every now and then
to stoop over a flower-bed, or to pluck some unsightly
weed from the pathway — Aitzig was inwardly invoking
the assistance of all his forefathers, beginning with
the patriarch Abraham and ending with his own father,
who had dealt in old iron, and who now slept
the sleep of the faithful, under an inexpensive gravestone.


When the little square room up-stairs was reached,
Lucyan, apparently forgetful of the heat, and indifferent
to the scent of garlic, first closed and bolted the
window, and then, sitting down, began to toy with
his comb.

VOL. II. E

After Aitzig had been kept on thorns a minute or so,
Lucyan half turned his head towards him. " Have
you made inquiries about that set of second-hand
harness you heard of ? "

I have looked at it again," stammered Aitzig.

Ah, very well. Remember that a florin-fifty must
be beaten off the price."

Scarcely a florin could I beat off it."

Fifty more, or I do not take it." Lucyan appeared
absorbed in the view from the window, but during
that pause he knew just as well as though he had
had eyes at the back of his head, that Aitzig was
standing with neck craned forward, and sunken eyes
glistening, greedily waiting for the next words.

Was it about the harness that the gracious Pan
desired to see me ? " he ventured at last.

No ; I have a note down here about the cattle-market
too."

The gracious Pan was mentioning something about
the Propinacya ! " Lucyan smiled under his moustache,
and mentally scored one point. "Yes, to be
sure. What was it I said ? "

That the gracious Pan was thinking of making the
lease change hands "

Ah, yes ; and you asked who it was that T was
thinking of favouring with the lease ; did you not ask
that, Aitzig ? "

Yes, Pan." Aitzig's yellow fingers were winding
themselves convulsively in and out of the ragged cord
at his waist.

That is a simple question, and easy to answer.
Would the answer interest you? Well" — for Aitzig
nodded, beincj too far fijone for words — " the man to
whom I give the lease must be ready to do any service
I require of him."

I understand," said Aitzig, eagerly.

He must be ready," continued Lucyan, " to obey
blindly any order that might be given him, without
venturing to put up his opinion against my own. Do
you understand that ? "

Perfectly, Pan — I understand perfectly," said Ait-zig,
perceiving that there was some dirty work to be
done — something that was not quite KoscJia ; '^ and
instinctively he began turning up the cuffs of 'his
greasy kaftan, as if to intimate that he was the man
to do it.

What I should require in future I do not know,"
said Lucyan, examining his nails ; " but, at the present
moment, there is one immediate condition attached
to the lease."

Gracious Pan ! " cried Aitzig, starting forward,

1 According to the Mosaic law, a thing is either Kosclia or not
Koscha — that is, clean or unclean. Thus the front quarters of an
ox are Koscha, the hind quarters not Koscha.

you may be sure that poor old Aitzig would fulfil
that condition, if you so desired it."

Lucy an saw the weak point in the enemy's armour,
and struck at it.

Who said I was talking of you ? " he inquired
coolly, as, with a sharp movement, he raised his head.
Aitzif]^ shrank back, cowering towards the door. The
spot beside the door was the spot naturally assigned
to him, so as to leave as wide a space as the size of
the room allowed between the Jew and the Christian.
It was only in the heat of excited feeling that he ever
overstepped his bounds. " We were talking of the
lease, were we not? Do you know what rent ISTaf-
tali Taubenkiibel has paid for it during these thirty-two
years ? "

Four thousand florins he has paid every year."

Exactly so ; four thousand florins," repeated Lucyan,
rapping out with the comb four little taps on the
palm of his left hand. "It is not always convenient,
however, that the sum should be precisely known."

Aitzig made no answer, for he was still on the
watch and on the strain, not quite seeing daylight
as yet.

I believe," said Lucyan, carelessly, " that it is
sometimes considered, let us say agrceoMe, to give out
the sum of such a lease a little different from what it
really is."

It may be, noble Pan," agreed Aitzig, who tliovight
that he saw a trimmer of licht.

o o

"When I say different, of course I do not mean
higher. I have heard, for instance, of Jews who
managed very neatly to escape about half their taxes
in that manner. Have you heard of such Jews, too,
Aitzig ? " At the last words Lucyan turned his head
so suddenly, and eyed the Jew so sharply, that Aitzig
had not time to put on the proper coat of innocence,
which would have clothed him most becomingly at
this moment. He could only stand and nod in reply,
and cautiously admit that he might have heard of
such Jews.

There are other cases," went on Lucyan, " in
which it would be convenient to have the rent named
at a lower price. Supposing that such a case had
arisen, and supposing that there happened to be a Jew
who was anxious, very anxious, to have the lease — do
you understand me, Aitzig ? "

Yes, yes ; wherefore should Aitzig off understand
? "

Well, supposing that Jew was told that the lease
for four thousand florins would only be given him it
he agrees to draw out a second lease, which affirmed
that he paid two thousand, what do you think would
be that Jew's course ? "

A false lease ! " cried Aitzig, starting backwards

with two raised and outspread hands, pious horror
painted on his face.

A false lease," repeated Lucyan, after him, quite
distinctly and slowly, for he never shrank from calling
things by their proper names. " Have I not spoken
clearly enough ? Well, I will speak clearly now. I
was thinking of giving the lease of the Propinacyas to
you, on condition that you signed that false paper ;
but as you object to the idea, we need talk no further
about it," and Lucyan rose, walked over to the bookcase,
and drawing out the ' Hints to the Eose Lover,'
began to turn over the pages.

Have I heard the gracious Pan aright ? " gasped
the dazzled Jew. " He would give the Propinacya to
poor old Aitzig ? Is Aitzig to be blest with a fortunate
old age ? "

On that one condition," remarked Lucyan, across
his shoulder. " And, of course, you understand that
the paper remains in my hands, not in yours. There
will be*no room for false play there, Aitzig."

The God of Moses has been merciful to Aitzig,"
continued the Jew, lost in a sort of ecstasy.

Then you accept the condition ? "

The condition I " Aitzig started out of his dream.
The false lease ? How could Aitzig Majulik damn
his soul by such a deed ? " and Aitzig screwed up his
eyes, and drew up his shoulders, and threw up his

hands, and looked the picture of outraged virtue.
Everything else will Aitzig do but that one thing."

And nothing else but that one thing will give you
the Propinacya."

It is too sinful a deed to ask of a child of Abraham."

Very well, then, you can go now. I have something
to see about."

He sat down at the table, and with perfect composure
he opened the book he held.

How could my forefathers rest in peace," whined
the factor, lingering, " if I have to do such a deed ?
Would not my mother turn in her grave ? "

Very likely she would," said Lucyan, quietly.
Have you understood me ? Go I "

He heard the door open and close again, and then
he heard Aitzig go three steps down the passage. He
smiled to himself, and went on with his book. His
hand did not even shake as he turned the pages of
Hints to the Eose Lover ' (laying it open finally at
the chapter on Eose Diseases), for his nerves were as
firm as steel.

The step on which he had resolved, and which he
was now engaged in taking, might, at first sight, appear
imprudent and even perilous, but in reality it
was the result of cold-blooded calculation. Having
minutely weighed the proportions of risk against those
of gain, he had concluded that this apparently perilous

thing was, in reality, the safest thing which he could
do, granted that a certain object was to be gained. It
was a bold leap which he had to take, and originally
he had not intended to take it; but, in face of the
Auditor's letter, he saw no other course. Delay alone
would be suspicious ; so delay there must be none.
The leap was not so wide as it looked ; for it was not
only that the act he meditated was a simple and almost
an easy thing in such a country as Poland, and
such a time as that ; but it was also that Lucyan
knew his own strength, and every inch of the ground
as well. He knew his brother, he knew Aitzig Maju-
lik, he knew even the Auditor, although he had never
seen him. He respected him for his shrewd questionings;
but, at the same time, he had caught sight of
the limits of that shrewdness. With an eagle eye he
had espied the advantages of his own position, and the
disadvantages of the enemy ; for instance, the disadvantage
of distance, of ignorance, of honesty, and
belief in honesty.

Of his instrument he was quite certain. He had
not felt the slightest uneasiness when Aitzig left the
room in that burst of outraged virtue, nor would he
have felt uneasy if Aitzig had left the house, nor even
if he had stayed away from the house a whole day
long. He knew that his hold upon the Jew was just
as firm as though one end of an iron chain had been

around Aitzig's neck, while the other end was in his
own hand. The only question which caused him the
slightest anxiety was as to how long the Jew would
take before coming to terms. He wished, for many
reasons, that the whole business should be hurried
through. For one reason, he could not marry before
this was settled, and he had resolved to marry next
month. Besides, there were rumours of an armistice
between the fighting armies ; and though it would
probably not last long, yet an armistice would not
just at present have been convenient for Lucyan. In
the meantime, however, he was not sure whether
Aitzig had left the house, or even the passage. His
estimate of the Jew was not at fault; for presently
the door glided open softly, very softly, and a lean
figure squeezed itself in. Lucyan, without raising his
head, turned over another page.

I have but returned to ask a little question of the
gracious Pan."

Did I not tell you to go ? " said Lucyan, sternly.

It is but a question I have to ask," stuttered the
Jew. " If such a man could be found who would
consent to damn his soul in order to satisfy the
gracious Pan, what would the gracious Pan be pleased
to give him ? "

I have told you what; the Propinacya."

Gottt unci die Welt ! but Naftali Taubenkubel

lias held the Propinacya for thirty-two years, and no
one has asked of him that he should damn his soul.
Naftali Taubenkubel will be gathered to rest with
his forefathers, while poor Aitzig Majulik "

"As Aitzig Majulik has not accepted the condition,
no doubt Aitzig Majulik will be gathered to his forefathers
too."

True, Pan — most true." Aitzig smiled a sickly
smile, as if the notion of being gathered to his forefathers
had suddenly lost its charm. " But what Jew
will the noble Pan find more ready to serve him than
Aitzig ? "

Well, Aitzig," said Lucy an, carelessly, " I should
not mind taking fifty florins off the rent of the first
year."

Aitzig swiftly crossed the room on tiptoe, and
whispered into Lucyan's ear, " Five hundred."

'* Get away, you dog 1 Fifty, or this business is not
clenched."

I could not do this thing for fifty florins, and I
could not do it for a hundred florins ; a heavy sin it
is," and Aitzig gave a sigh in proportion to the heaviness
of the sin. " Consider that, gracious Pan ; if the
gracious Pan had said four hundred and eighty, or " —
as Lucyan angrily raised his head — " four hundred and
fifty."

I will give you sixty, but not a penny more."

Four hundred and twenty," whined the factor.

Sixty, or you get out of the room this instant."

Gracious Pan," — and Aitzig in the extreme of his
anguish wound his hand through his beard, — " let us
say four hundred and ten."

There is the door," remarked Lucy an.

Four hundred, gracious gentleman."

Seventy-five, or get away."

'three hundred and fifty," shrieked the Jew, for
Lucyan had risen from his chair.

You don't see the door ? I will show you the
way. There ! " with a vigorous gesture, neatly executed
and very effective, he pushed the Jew into the
passage and shut the door upon him, although Aitzig,
through the narrowing chink, found time to gasp back,
Three hundred ! "

Having done this, he returned to the table, where
the ' Hints to the Eose Lover ' still lay open at the
chapter on Rose Diseases. But this time his calmness
was not real ; his lips were compressed, and his finely
cut nostrils dilated and contracted quickly, as he
passed his handkerchief across his forehead. The day
was warm and the room was close, and his last act
had been a rather exhausting one. His eyes indeed
were on the book, but his whole attention was taken
up with listening ; in short, feverish strokes, he passed
the comb through his black hair till it crackled like

burning straw, and shot sparks, as though it wished to
join in the excitement of the business.

There was a sound at the door, just as if a large dog
were scratching with hard claws, and rubbing its soft
body against it. There was breathing too, hard by the
keyhole, which might have passed for canine breathing.
Lucyan raised his head and listened, taking care
not to make the smallest noise ; the hand which held
the comb was poised in the air motionless, and his eye
was fixed in the strain of attention.

Two hundred and sixty," whispered Aitzig through
the keyhole.

Lucyan moved not a muscle, but maintained his
fixed attitude.

There was not thirty seconds' pause before the
whisper hissed through the keyhole, " Two hundred
and fifty florins."

Lucyan remained just as he was, and there followed
a longer pause this time. Perhaps the dead silence
had chilled the heart of the Hebrew, for the next
whisper showed a considerable leap downwards :
Gracious Pan, a hundred and eighty."

Quite noiselessly Lucyan rose and approached the
door, but paused for another moment there, bending his
ear to the keyhole.

"A hundred and fifty."

Lucyan opened the door so suddenly that the

Jew stumbled forwards. "What is that you said?"
and seizing Aitzig by the collar, he dragged him head
foremost into the room.

A hundred and fifty," whimpered the breathless
Hebrew.

"Bah! I should have touched you with tongs," said
Lucyan, with an air of most delicate disgust, wiping
his white fingers upon his cambric handkerchief.

The noble Pan says fine things," said Aitzig,
chuckling as though he had been flattered by the
choicest of compliments. " A hundred and fifty will
be given to poor old Aitzig Majulik then ? "

In the name of peace, I will give you a hundred,
and that is my last word. Is this bargain clenched ? "

Aitzi" wavered, and began to shuffle and cough,
while Lucyan threw himself back into his comfortable
arm-chair. He had been playing his victim like a
trout for the last ten minutes, and now the trout was
trembling on the line, while he drew him slowly,
slowly towards the shore.

It is clenched then. I give you the Propinacya
and a hundred, and you give me the second lease —
the false lease. Is that clear ? "

Somehow, at the eleventh hour the Jew took fright
at the plain word. He stood there before his tormentor,
trembling, uncertain, dazzled, and alarmed,
gabbling out his scruples in a hoarse and halting

voice. There was the risk, after all, which might
prove serious ; there would be his own writing to hold
up against him, there might be detection and prison,
he might get into difficulties with the authorities, and
he might also get into difficulties with his salvation.

Lucyan, his head thrown back and his eyes half
closed, sat and watched with a sort of contemptuous
pity the struggle which he had provoked ; for he was
a great man of his kind, and the other man but a
small man of the same kind. The man who had no
fear and no conscience looked on at the agony of the
man who was a coward, and who had still a grain of
conscience remaining.

After a minute or so the spectacle grew tiresome,
and even Lu can's supreme patience gave way. " Don't
do it then," he said, bringing his hand down flat on the
table. "Don't injure your conscience; and do you
know what the result will be ? My brother Kazimir
will then keep the upper hand in the estate, and my
brother Kazimir is far too good and kind a man to turnout
such a faithful servant as Xaftali Taubenkubel.
On Tuesday, therefore, Naftali Taubenkubel can renew
his lease."

Gracious Pan ! " said the tortured Jew, desperately,
why is it that you desire this thing to be done ? "

"Have I not told you that blind obedience is the
first necessity? Why should you try to see, then,

since I choose that you should be blind ? Enough
that it is my interest to lower the value of the Pro-panacea
upon paper, and enough that it is your
interest to hold the Propinacya. Have you understood
? "

"Yes, yes, no doubt." Aitzig was "writhing in
helpless indecision ; his deeply sunken eyes, which
seemed always to be lying in a sort of dark ambush,
were fixed watchfully on Lucyan's face. But he
might as well have tried to read through a white
stone mask. His low and vulgar cunning was no
match for this splendid intellect, trained by high
education, and invulnerable at every point.

"A hundred, then," said Lucyan, and he put his
hand in the open drawer — "you can have fifty now
if you like, and fifty can be taken off the lease."
He slowly folded out the crisp bank-note. "A hundred,
Aitzig ? " repeated Lucyan.

The gracious Pan will not betray poor old Aitzig ? "
quavered the Jew, showing the whites of his eyes, and
licking his withered lips as a wild beast does at the
sight of raw meat. Lucyan, holding the bank-note
well in sight of the factor, whose fingers were convulsively
closing and unclosing themselves, thought
that he had never seen a more hideous sight than
the face of Aitzig at that moment.

Fool ! " he exclaimed, with a sort of scornful

frankness. "Do you not see that what I can do
to you, you can do to me? You are in my hands,
and I am in yours. A hundred, then ? "

My salvation "

And twenty, well, since I have no time to bargain."

By the light in those vulture eyes Lucyan saw that
the last spark of conscience was extinguished, and the
hard bargain clenched at last.

In two minutes more he was alone. Going to the
table he poured some violet scent on to his handkerchief
to refresh himself, for he was a little tried. " It
would not have done without those fifty florins," he
reflected ; " nothing like the crackle of paper for a
Jew." But he sighed regretfully all the same, for he
loved his money as much as he loved his flowers.
Fresh air at last ! " and he threw open the window
to the evening breeze. " Any one coming in would
fancy that I had been dining off garlic in my room."

Lucyan leant out of the window and smiled down
confidentially at his sick tea-rose.

It almost seemed to him that his darling was raising
her drooping head already, and smiling a faintly convalescent
smile into the face of the setting sun.

CHAPTER XIX.

BUMPER.

Es list unendlich sooner, such zehnmal liber betrligen zu lassen, als einmal
den Gluten an die Menschheit verlieren." — Zschokke.

Verona was taking lier afternoon siesta. So white
was the glare brooding over the town, that the houses
seemed absolutely to have grown pale, as though exhausted
by the heat. Every curtain was lowered,
and every shutter barred ; not from fear of the siege,
which the Austrians half expected, but as a rampart
against another enemy, the fierce sun, who beat his
fiery blade against every plank, and shot his fiery
arrows between each narrow chink and through every
unguarded hole.

Every one who had a bed was asleep upon it ; and
everybody who had none, was asleep in a corridor or
on a door-step. The Italians slept on principle, the
Austrians slept from sheer fatigue. It would have been
hard work to collect a hundred wide-awake people

VOL. II. F

this afternoon. Two out of the hundred were to be
found together in a spacious, marble-paved, large-widowed,
and colonnaded apartment, much adorned
with faded gilding, and heavily scented with bunches
of flowers. Tattered damask curtains of a pale-yellow
colour hung over the windows ; while the door stood
open to the passage, showing a glimpse of stone-paved
courtyard, with the vivid red of pomegranate-blossoms
clustering here and there between glistening green.

Beside the centre window stood an old-fashioned,
many-legged and many-drawers writing-table. There
were papers spread on the writing-table, and there
were also a bottle of red wine, recently uncorked,
and a couple of glasses.

The Auditor, in shirt-sleeves, his cuffs turned up,
his collar turned down, and a wet towel tied round
his head, sat at this table, alternately sipping wine
and fanning himself with a cabbage-leaf.

Keep your head cool," he remarked, in answer to
the last words that had been said. " I know that you
are not asking for my advice, and that is just why I
insist upon giving it to you. I maintain, as a first
step, that your head must be kept cool; there's a
second towel, why don't you put it on?"

"Because I am too vain and not hot enough," replied
Kazimir, who stood at a little distance, leaning
over the back of a damask chair, with his attila half

iinbuttonecl and his hair all pushed back from his
forehead. " I do wish you would get into your coat ;
there is one of those girls coming again, not bringing
me more flowers, I hope."

You dare to talk to me of putting on anything ?
Be thankful that I have not taken off more. When
you are as fat as I am, you will have given over stickling
at a nuance of propriety."

There were no more flowers coming, fortunately,
there being now not a vacant vase in the room ; but
there was a radiant smile, and a shower of glances,
and an insinuating question, as to whether the Signor
tenants did not wish for more aqua fresco ? There had
been many such smiles and glances during the last
forty-eight hours, ever since the handsome hussar had
taken up his quarters here ; and considering the frequency
of these occurrences (for there were two pairs
of dark eyes and two sets of radiant smiles in the
house) Kazimir bore this one with exemplary patience.
Fresh water ? Yes, he should be infinitely obliged if
the Signorina would bring him some water, only he
was so sorry that she should have the trouble. " And
another bottle like this one since you're about it," put
in the Auditor, whose startlingly grotesque figure,
Kazimir was vainly attempting to shield " uncorked,
carina mia, you understand ? Dear me, what
a temper ! " for the radiant smile had quickly changed

to an angry frown, as the Signorina flounced through
the door. It was rather hard, certainly, to be chucked
under the chin by a fat man of fifty-six, when there
was a remarkably well-proportioned man of twenty-six
standing by. The Signorina Alas so put out that
she ran the giraffe against the door-post and cracked
it. It was almost as unpardonable of the middle-aged
man to have chucked her under the chin, as it
was of the young man not to have done it.

There is another head that needs to be kept cool,"
remarked the Auditor, rolling up his right shirt-sleeve
to the elbow ; " but to return to yours, she will be back
again in a minute, you know, or her sister will — why
must you sign this paper here to-day ? What is the
need of a hurry ? "

What is the need of a delay ? My brother wants
to marry at once, and he cannot marry until this
paper is signed."

Sign it when the war is over."

Yes, and keep Lucy an waiting till October, perhaps
till November."

It might be worth while," suggested the Auditor,
to wait and hear the result of the Emperors' talk ;
they must nearly have had it out by this time. Not
that I build much upon it myself, but it is my principle
never to lose a chance."

"My principles are the same; and that is just why

I do not want to lose this chance of sending off the
papers. You know as well as I do, that the Emperors'
conference is nothing but a sham, and that we are not
half-way through the war yet. Suppose we are besieged
here, what then ? Am I to trust to air-balloons
or subterraneous passages ? 'No, no, I mean to have
my own way. The orderly will be here in a quarter
of an hour for the regimental despatches, and my papers
shall go with them." Kazimir having announced
this determination, shook back his hair and took a
turn down the long apartment.

The Auditor rolled up his left sleeve to match the
right one. " I think you are the most obstinate man
I have ever had in the regiment ; when you fold your
arms and set your teeth there is nothing to be done
with you. Let me see — how sleepy this air makes one
feel ! " The Auditor yawned, and blinked his eyes
drowsily, swallowing half a glass of wine by way of
arousing himself. " The papers seem all right ; I
cannot pick any hole in them, I am afraid ; —-the lease
of the Propinacyas, signed by the name of Aitzig
Majulik, and attested by two witnesses. This Jew
affirms that he pays a lease of two thousand florins."

Well ? " said Kazimir, impatiently, for the Auditor's
head was beginning to nod over the papers.

Not much of a Propinacya — no, not much ; seven,
eight, even ten thousand florins is often paid for a

Propinacya in Poland. Are you sure that it is the
principal point of the estate ? "

Oh yes, quite sure. I have answered that question
a dozen times. What is the use of all this discussion
? The case is as clear as daylight. If the
Propinacyas are worth two thousand florins a-year,
the whole estate cannot be worth more than barely
thirty-two thousand, and my share would then be
ten or eleven thousand. Lucyan is stretching a point
when he offers me twelve, as he now does."

Keep your head cool and your feet too," said
the Auditor, kicking off a boot. " I want you todo
what you are doing, with your eyes open."

"My eyes are perfectly wide open already; Lucyan
himself opened them. Did I not tell you that he has
pressed me repeatedly to take the estate into my own
hands ? What better proof could you have of disinterested
motive ? "

True, true," said the Auditor, sleepily, from behind
his wine-glass ; his tipsiness was of the mild and
drowsy sort to-day. " True enough, but still "

No ' but's,' and no ' still's,' " retorted Kazimir ; " I
do not want to waste another moment over it. Where
is the paper ? "

The paper was there on the table, spread out flat
before the Auditor, and fluttering a little in the
draught. A paper most carefully drawn out, in which

it was set forth that the undersigned gave up all his
claims upon the estate of Wowasulka to his brother
Lucy an Bielinski for the sum of twelve thousand
florins. All trouble had been spared Kazimir ; there
was nothing to do but to write his name at the foot,
and the deed would be complete.

Take it coolly," said the Auditor, and he kicked
off his second boot with so much vigour, that it
fell at the feet of a man who was at that moment
entering.

"Pretty well aimed," said the lieutenant, who
lounged in with his hands in his pockets, and a
pomegranate - blossom between his teeth, looking
serene and provokingly cool. "Here's a fine sight
for a warm summer's day. Bielinski and the Oracle
fiojhtin<^^ ! "

Why did you not let me do it before ? " said
Kazimir, under his breath. " We shall have no peace
now."

"You could not have done it before, foolish boy.
Do you imagine that you can sign away an estate,
without witnesses to attest your writing?"

"Is he going to sign away an estate?" asked the
new-comer serenely. " Happy man ! I wish I had
an estate to sign away."

Well, then, Lohonzy is a witness ; let us get it
over; give me the pen."

Softly, softly, there is no hurry ; one witness is
not enough — we must have a second."

Let us have a second, then ! " cried Kazimir, with
a stamp of impatience. " Are you sure two are
enough? Would it not be better to have five or
six? There, Lohonzy, like a good fellow, go and
fetch me somebody, anybody — quick !" and the astonished
lieutenant was pushed out of the door in search
of witnesses.

Presently he returned, looking just as cool as ever,
with his hands still in his pockets, and the 
still between his teeth ; accompanied
this time by a sheepish youth, very evidently fresh
from the pillow, and a bald-headed captain with a
cheerful grin and a lilac cotton handkerchief, which,
with fearful energy, he passed and repassed across his
perspiring brow.

There ! " exclaimed Lohonzy, throwing himself full
length on a damask sofa. " I have done my duty
nobly ; I have brought you a selection of witnesses,
old and young, dark and fair, with hair and without
hair — take your choice. As a first step towards the
proceedings, I propose that we throw all the flowers
out of the windows" — and Lohonzy clutched at the
nearest vase, and began aiming rose and carnation
heads at the chinks between the Venetian blinds.
Bielinski is a nuisance wherever he goes ; women

always strew flowers in his path, and the consequence
is, that his rooms smell like hothouses. You have no
objection, I suppose ? "

None whatever," said Kazimir, " only don't chatter
about it; let us get this business over."

I am entirely at your service," said the bald
captain, with much unnecessary fervour; while the
sheepish youth stood and looked at his hands
disconsolately.

He is going to sign away an estate," explained
Lohonzy, flinging a bunch of geraniums against the
blind. "It is a very serious matter, I assure you.
They were fighting about it when I came in; throwing
their boots at each other's heads. What had the
Oracle been doing, Bielinski? Preaching too hard?"

Never mind," said Kazimir, biting his lip.

Supposing we proceed to business," suggested the
sleepy Auditor, gazing down at his feet, as if he very
much regretted having no more boots to kick off.
Supposing we proceed to business, — if it is really to
be done."

Of course it is to be done, and at once too. There
is the orderly already," for a clatter of hoofs in the
stone-paved courtyard broke the silence outside.

Not quite so fast," and the Auditor staggered to
his feet; " I insist upon your considering your position
once more."

"And I decline to consider it," said Kazimir, laughing,
as he sat down before the table and dipped the
pen in ink.

Listen to me first " — the Auditor took the pen from
Kazimir's hand. Here the sheepish youth, who was
still young enough to possess a conscience, found
courage to ask what it was all about.

He is going, Esau-like, to get rid of his birthright,"
explained Lohonzy, flippantly.

Silence ! " said the Auditor, who, with the pen still
in his hand, made his way towards a deep arm-chair,
and sank heavily into it.

He has got hold of another pen ! " cried Lohonzy,
who considered the whole thing — as indeed he considered
most things — in the light of a capital joke.
Springing from his sofa, and falling upon Kazimir, he
succeeded, with the help of the bald-headed captain, in
disarming him.

Enough of this nonsense," said Kazimir, beginning
to lose his temper ; " I don't see why this affair should
be turned into a game of romps. Let me go, Lohonzy ;
give me that pen directly."

Lohonzy, in reply, cheerfully threw the pen out of
the window after the roses and carnations, and then
went and sat down on his sofa again. At the same
moment the orderly presented himself in the doorway.


'' Wait," said Kazimir, controlling himself with difficulty;
for he was helpless without a pen, and the
only pen in the room was in the Auditor's hand. The
orderly retired to the passage.

You want the pen ? Very well, you shall have it ;
but not till you have listened to me." The Auditor,
having tied a fresh towel round his head, and turned
up his shirt sleeves a little higher, made a last and
tremendous effort at collecting his wits. All the eyes
in the room were unconsciously turned towards him ;
there was a hush of expectancy. Kazimir, leaning
back with his arms folded, tapped the ground impatiently
with his heel, and fiercely bit his moustache.

'you shall have the pen, if you want; but it is
my duty to make you consider once more exactly
what you are doing. It is an abnormal proceeding.
Mind that it should not turn out to be what at cards
v/e call a ' bumper,' — the winner scores every point,
the loser scores nothing; mind, I say, that you be
not the loser. Tear up that paper, and you are perfectly
free, — as free as I am, as free as that youngster
is, — bound by nothing. Write your name at the bottom
of it, and you put yourself entirely in another
man's power."

He is my brother," said Kazimir, simply.

Cain was Abel's brother," remarked the Auditor.
No, I have not done," as Kazimir raised his head.

Brother is a very fine word ; but we have no brothers
in the law. It is an affair of man to man ; you resign
your rights to a man who may or may not take advantage
of your complete dependence. For remember,
above all, that no future act of yours can cancel this
one. However much you may wish it, however much
you may regret it, nothing which you can do in years
to come can undo this of to-day. Take five more
minutes to consider it ; I would not have a harm come

to you " the Auditor's voice grew thick, and his

twinkling eyes grew moist. " I would cut off my right
hand rather than that harm should come to you ; and
there is not one of your comrades who would not do
the same ; " breaking off with a suspicious huskiness,
the Auditor gulped down a mouthful of wine. The
youngest lieutenant gave a gasp of emotion ; the bald
captain, waving his handkerchief, seemed anxious to
explain that he would not only have his right hand
cut off, if necessary, but his left hand as well, and both
his feet into the bargain. Lohonzy himself, though
he still chewed his pomegranate-stalk, looked considerably
sobered. " I do not know your brother," resumed
the Auditor ; " I know that, in such a case, I could
trust my brother as I trust myself : it is for you to
decide whether you can trust your brother as you
trust yourself. If yes, sign that paper ; if not, tear
it up."

There was a dead pause in the room, — no sound to
be heard but the faint jingle of spurs, as the orderly
slowly paced the passage outside.

Give me the pen," said Kazimir.

Bielinski, are you considering ? I have no right
to prevent you, if you insist ; but I have a right to
warn you that what you are doing is being done in
the dark. For the last time : you know your brother,
and I do not. If you have one shade of doubt, one
atom of distrust, do not sign that paper."

All the eyes in the room had turned from the Auditor
to Kazimir. Kazimir's face was not entirely calm.
In spite of himself, he was impressed by the warmth
of eloquence in the old man's words ; in spite of himself,
he was touched by the goodwill of his comrades.
He was struggling to hide this feeling. He raised his
eyes, till now obstinately fixed on the table, and they
fell straight on the grotesque figure of the Auditor.
In the heat of his speech, the orator had raised himself
on his chair; his great red hands grasped the arms
with drunken unsteadiness ; his head rolled from side
to side in the effort of righting itself, while from the
wet towel there dripped down unsightly streams, disfiguring
the surface of the rich yellow damask. But
for the intense earnestness of expression, the figure
would have been a repulsive one to behold. The
sight of the orator went far towards chilling the effect

of the oration. Was this eloquence perhaps, after all,
but drunken rhapsody ?

Give me the pen," he repeated.

The pen was handed to him, in silence this time,
and Kazimir dipped it in ink. Somehow, at this fifty-ninth
minute of the eleventh hour, the distinct realisation
of what he was about to do started up before his
mind, sharp and clear. He raised his eyes for one
second more, and met four other pairs fixed on him,
and saw that the four men were watching him in a
sort of impressed silence. The Auditor, with his
hands still grasping the arms; the captain, with his
lilac handkerchief poised in the air ; the young lieutenant,
with his mouth hanging open ; even Lohonzy,
having dropped his pomegranate flower, and sitting
with his hands out of his pockets, and a look of
curiosity on his face. In that second — for it was buta
second — it flashed across him that the slightest show
of hesitation at this moment would be an acknowledgment
of that shade of doubt, that atom of distrust,
of which the Auditor had spoken. And, of
course, he had no doubt, no distrust, of his brother
Lucyan. The very thought sent the blood to his
temples in a rush of indignation. To the four men
watching, there was no perceptible pause between the
moment when he took the pen, and the moment when,
in a quick firm hand, he wrote his name, " Kazimir

Bielinski/' A constrained silence had fallen on them
all. The signature was attested, and the papers put
up and despatched, without a word being said ; and
the orderly was scarcely well clear of the house, the
footfall of his horse still clattering over the stone-paved
courtyard, when the Auditor, worn out by the
effort of his speech, and overpowered by the reaction,
fell into a stertorous sleep. Kazirair, as he watched
him rolling in his chair, mentally congratulated himself
on not having listened to the scruples of a
drunken old man.

He drew a deep breath, and threw himself back in
his chair. The captain pocketed his handkerchief
and looked at the young lieutenant, who immediately
resumed the contemplation of his hands. Lohonzy
rose from his sofa, picked up his pomegranate, and,
yawningly, stretched his arms above his head. The
Auditor snored on peacefully. Several minutes had
passed, and no one had materially changed his position,
when a fresh clatter broke over the pavement
below. " The orderly coming back," was the first
thought which suggested itself to the listeners; but
the orderly, at any rate, was not coming back alone.
The dead courtyard had suddenly grown alive. Voices
rang out, questions, answers ; there were figures appearing
at every door, and heads at every window.
If a magician had struck the pavement with his rod,

he could not more rapidly have conjured up a chattering,
laughing, and shrieking mob from out of the
sleepy stones.

No ; this could not be the orderly returning. Here
must lie some graver cause, — a sudden attack? an
alarm of the enemy ? treachery ? bloodshed ? The
listeners had scarcely time to ask themselves these
questions, and the Auditor had scarcely time to break
off his snoring and rub his eyes, before a heated, dishevelled,
dusty, and excited man rushed into the
room, and shook everybody present frantically by the
hand, shouting all the time at the top of his voice,
"Peace! Peace! PEACE!"

Peace at first sight appeared to be wonderfully un-peaceful.
The room was full in a moment, noisy and
resounding, every trace of its quiet gone. The streets
were alive, the whole town was alive, and the bells
were most disagreeably alive — clanging with penetrating
tongues.

Peace ! " repeated the Auditor, suddenly and violently
grown sober.

Peace ! " echoed the bald captain, at once producing
his lilac handkerchief, and turning it into a
festive flag.

Peace ! " re-echoed the sheepish youth, hanging
his jaw so low, that dislocation appeared imminent.

Everybody was embracing everybody else indiscriminately.

There was not a vestige of calmness
remaining anywhere. Every Italian shed tears and
beat his breast in the ecstasy of his delight, and every
Austrian wrung the hands stretched towards him with
a muscular energy which quite made np for the absence
of tears. The signorinas of the house were particularly
eager to hold out the hand of friendship to
their handsome hussar lodger, and with much volubility
to express their delight that they need no
longer be enemies. If such had been their enmity,
a man might think, looking at the overloaded flower-vases,
heaven preserve us from their friendship! Is it
possible ? Can it be true ? Peace ? peace ? peace ?
Dozens of voices repeated the mighty word with a
sort of incredulous interrogation. The news was so
sudden as to be almost stupefying.

No declaration of war had ever been so completely
startling and unlooked-for as was this announcement
of peace. But the next quarter of an hour left no
possibility for doubt. At every street - corner the
telegram was being read, describing the five hours'
interview, at the end of which two imperial hands
had met, and the victorious emperor had said to the
vanquished emperor, " Embassies nous, mon free ! "
It was all as clear and as neat as possible. Austria
was to lose most that she held in Italy, and be saved
the trouble of repairing her defeats. Even at imperial

VOL. II. G

card - tables, it seems, are there " bumpers " to be
scored, and even crowned brothers can sometimes
settle their difficulties so that the result should be
entirely satisfactory — on one side.

Of all the shocks of surprises which the news dealt
out that day, perhaps none was as violent as that
dealt to Kazimir. Peace ! He was literally dazed
at the bare word. Peace meant disappointment to
him, and not hope; it meant discouragement, and
not joy.

Mechanically he pressed the outstretched hands of
the signorinas, in his abstraction never noticing the
insinuating glances which seemed to suggest that at
such a moment a warmer salute would be quite
permissible.

Peace ! " he exclaimed, turning his face ruefully
towards his comrades. " Where are my laurels ? "

But second thoughts are best after all, and Kazimir
had a second thought. With most men this thought
would have been, " I need not have been in such a
hurry to send off the papers." But to Kazimir, a
thing once done was really done ; it was not in his
nature to torment himself about what was irrevocable.
His second thought was different. No one could tell
him where his laurels were, but a voice within him
was crying, " You can go home to your brother's
wedding ! " That bright flush on his cheek, that keen

light in his eye, was it brotherly affection which had
made them spring up, or was it — what was it that the
voice within him cried again ?

Perhaps, after all, she will take me without my
laurels."

CHAPTER XX.

WHOSE TURN ?

Thou com'st in such a questionable shape."

—Hamlet,

Perhaps, after all, she will take me without my
laurels." The thought stuck in Kazimir's mind, and
rang in his heart from that moment forth. He saw it
written on the sky and on the earth, he heard it in
the very shriek of the engine which in a few days
more was bearing him homewards. Four months of
separation and of silent waiting he had undergone,
and it was beginning to be borne in upon his mind
that the separation and the silence were no longer to
be endured. He had made an heroic effort at prudence
and common-sense, but he was able to hold
himself in check no longer. Could a man marry on
twelve thousand florins and his pay, or could he not ?
That was the question to which the case resolved
itself. At any rate, he would insist now upon a distinct
and open engagement.

How surprised they will all be to see me ! " laughed
Kazimir to himself, as on a fine July afternoon he
found himself on the last stage of his journey. No
one knew of his arrival ; for in such a hurry had he
been to get through his final duties and obtain leave
of absence, that he had not even taken time to write
home and announce himself. The hurry was, strictly
speaking, unnecessary, seeing that the date which had
been fixed for Lucyan's wedding was still a fortnight
off ; but much as Kazimir hurried, the hurry seemed
to him yet more like lagging than like haste.

The first thing which struck upon his ears as he
stepped from the carriage was a sound of vigorous
hammering — the second, a great rustling of some
crackly stuff. The house bore upon its face an appearance
of flurry and bustle. Kazimir scanned all
the windows, but there was not a face looking out of
any. Had no one been roused by the carriage-wheels ?
Lucyan's hearing was usually so acute.

He stepped into the passage, and stepped at the
same moment straight into an open parcel of small
tacks, which his spurs sent flying in all directions.
Next he stumbled over a pair of pincers, and, finally,
saved himself from falling by catching at a wooden
ladder hard by.

The combined noises which these accidents produced
brought a figure to the scene. At the open

door to the left there suddenly appeared Mademoiselle
Eobertine. That door had been the door of Madame
Bielinska's room ; but now, alas ! how desecrated was
the sanctuary ! As he thought of the difference between
now and then, Kazimir felt a pang of bitter
regret. Then the room had been gently darkened, and
sweet with that faint scent which always hung about
his mother ; and now the windows stood gaping wide
open, letting in the broad glare of daylight, and letting
out a rain of hammer-blows. The curtains had then
been faded, and soft, and thick ; and now, in the
midst of noisy confusion, of hammers and nails, and
loud-voiced workmen, Kazimir caught sight of yards
and yards of rose-sprigged chintz, surging in crackly
billows over floor and furniture.

The sight was evidently as painful, though for different
reasons, to Mademoiselle Eobertine as it was to
him ; for she came forward quickly, closing the door
behind her. A mole that witnesses the digging up
by some cruel spade of its own private labyrinth
could not have suffered more than did aunt Eobertine.
Henceforward there would not be a single dark spot
remaining in the house, unless she chose to take
refuge in the damp depths of the cellar. As she stood
confronting Kazimir now, she was blinking her eyes
under the glare of daylight, looking very much indeed
like a newly-dug-up mole.

So you have come back ? " she remarked, gazing
at her nephew with not exactly a gaze of welcome.

Of course I have come back," said Kazimir, cheerfully.
'' Did I not take you by surprise ? Ha, ha 1 I
thought I should. But tell me, aunt Libertine, what
are all these hammers, and nails, and rosebuds about ?
What are they doing to my mother's room ? "

They are doing a great deal to your poor mother's
room," said Eobertine, gloomily.

So I see ; but why have they taken down the old
curtains ? "

They are putting up fresh ones," said Eobertine,
with a deeper shade of gloom. " Much too light a
pattern," she murmured half to herself; "but young
women are always foolish, and she insisted on a white
ground."

Then the room is for the young couple ? " said Kashmir,
beginning to realise.

It is not for me to say." Eobertine turned backwards,
and put her fingers on the handle of the desolated
mole-hill.

Don't go back there, aunt Eobertine ; I want to
hear more, and there is no hurry,"

Eobertine gave him a long fixed look, and then
slowly and solemnly she pronounced, "There is a
great hurry."

Wait a minute more."

'' I cannot. The workmen have been in only two
hours. The key of the room was not found till eleven
o'clock."

Well, then, I will go and speak to Lucyan. Where
is he ? Up-stairs ? I think I shall burst into his
room and frighten him." Kazimir sprang two steps
up the stairs, and then paused at the sound of his
aunt's voice.

You cannot frighten your brother," Eobertine was
saying.

I shall try, at any rate," laughed Kazimir, beginning
to mount again. Eobertine allowed him to get
half-way up before she spoke next.

It is no use going to your brother's room."

Why not ? Is he not in it ? "

I cannot exactly say that he is in it. I have, in
fact, every reason to suppose that he is not in it ; and
what is more, I have reason to suppose that he is not
even " she hesitated.

Well ? " said Kazimir, impatiently, coming a step
down.

Not in the house," finished Eobertine, with an effort.

What a bore ! Where is he then ? And where is
Marcin ? "

Your two brothers are gone together."

Where to ? Out walking ? Out farming ? To Lod-nisi
? " with an inspiration.

Eobertine would not in so many words commit herself
by asserting that Lncyan and Marcin were gone
to Lodniki, but by her silence she admitted the fact.

Aunt Kobertine, tell me' said Kazimir, descending
another step, " is Mademoiselle Xenia at Lodniki
as well ? "

Eobertine, who had turned already, faced round
again at the question with visible surprise upon her
face, and for once in her life startled into a direct
reply, she answered, '' Of course she is ; where else
should she be?"

Then I shall go over at once ! " cried Kazimir,
impetuously.

What will you do there ? " inquired the aunt, still
surprised.

I want to see Panii Xenia," said Kazimir, half
repenting his rashness in the next moment; but in
the next again, he remembered that the secret would,
after all, not be a secret for long.

Eobertine stood motionless. " What good will it
do you to see Panii Xenia to-day ? "

What good ? More good than all the rest of the
world put together."

Oh, you think so ? And it never strikes you
that Panii Xenia may have other visitors to attend
to to-day?"

Other visitors ! Kazimir's buoyant mood experienced

the very slightest touch of a chill at that suggestion
of other visitors. A large phantom rose np
before him, hovering dimly and threatening indistinctly,
and the name of the phantom was Tiburtio.
Tiburtio was rich, successful, well connected ; no — it
was not possible ; he could be but a phantom. Kashmir
was not in the least afraid of him ; but still he
should like to know, just for curiosity's sake, whether
or no the phantom happened to be at Lodniki just
now. He put the question, and received an answer
so ambiguous as to leave the point unsolved.

'' At any rate I shall drive over," decided Kazimir.
Does Lucyan drive over every day ? "

Not exactly every day," answered Eobertine ; " but
of course he had to go to-day."

What for ? "

To make the final arrangements."

There was a mysterious stress upon the word
final."

The arrangements for what ? "

For that which is to take place."

The wedding, you mean ? But that is only in a
fortnight. Is not the date of the wedding fixed, aunt
Eobertine?"

The date of the wedding is fixed, Kazimir."

Then why do you talk of final arrangements ? "

Eobertine turned the door-handle slowly, while her

eyes still remained on her nephew's face. " I repeat
what I said before : they are gone over to make the
final arrangements."

There was nothing more to be got from aunt Libertine
; and making his way to his father's room, Kashmir
at length obtained a clear answer. In his father's
craze he read the welcome which he had loosed for,
but not yet found. The approach of the wedding had
not touched the solitude of the self-condemned hermit;
his consent had not been asked, and his interest was
not awakened. He had made no effort even to seethe
bride.

Drive over to-day if you will," said Bogumil,
smiling at sight of his son's unconscious eagerness ;
but it is scarcely worth while, considering that you
will have to be over there early tomorrow again."

Early tomorrow again ? What for ? "

For the wedding, Kazio, of course."

The wedding ! " echoed Kazimir, struck with
astonishment. " But is not the wedding to be this day
fortnight ? "

The wedding is to be to-niorrow\"

That is strange. What made Lucyan change his
mind?"

Bogumil shrugged his shoulders. " I am sure I
never asked. He has suddenly got into a great hurry
about it these last two weeks, ever since wee got the

telegrams to say that the peace at Villafranca was
signed."

But although Kazimir knew now that he would see
Xenia next day, his patience was not equal to these
twelve hours more. In less than an hour from the
moment of his reaching home, he was in the carriage
again, and on his way to Lodniki.

That phantom, which aunt Eobertine's allusion to
other visitors " had conjured up, hovered along beside
the carriage, but Kazimir resolutely declined to
consider it. To acknowledge to himself the slightest
anxiety on that score, would be to wrong Xenia most
unfairly. No, he did not feel anxious, only a little
curious. He drew out of his pocket a letter which
had reached him some days ago. It was from Marcin,
the first letter which Marcin had ever written to him.
He read it through again.

They have told me that you are quite well, and
have escaped unwounded ; and I want to tell you how
sorry I am about it, and that I hope you do not mind
it much. Life is too short to notice things usually ;
but though my eyes are not as sharp as a camel's, I
can sometimes see through a deal board. Do you remember
teasing me once about pill-boxes and leeches ?
What I say now is, people should not throw stones at
class houses. I asked aunt Libertine to do it, as I
had never done it before, but she wouldn't ; and I

can assure you that she did not seem to like it very
much, and even shed tears, but she told her that it
was no use spilling milk about it. The big young
man, by the by, sends you messages, and says that
you have not got shot, as you promised in the salt-mine.
He is either very glad or very sorry, I
can't remember which. It is a pity, I think, on
the whole ; for when the cat's away, the mice make
hay."

There was neither beginning nor end to the letter,
which broke off here. Except that it was correctly
spelled, there was no reason why it should not have
been written by a child of six. Kazimir had laughed
over it as a curiosity, without attempting to disentangle
the hopeless web of pronouns. Now only, on
the back of aunt Eobertine's words, did a ray of light
seem to fall upon the lines. It was possible, just
barely possible, that Tiburtio should in his absence
have been harassing Xenia with his unwelcome attentions.
Poor child ! how she must have longed for
his protection ! she was so little able to protect herself.
Her sweetness and childish confidence might so easily
be misunderstood and turned to other account. It was
high time that she should be freed from the trials
attendant on a secret engagement. Let Xenia fear no
more ; her protector is approaching fast. In a cloud
of dust he flies alone. He is choked with dust and

powdered with dust. Dust and rain alternately have
combined to make a sort of impromptu whitewash to
the bushes which border the forest-road.

Everybody was out in the wood, as he was told on
arriving. Not quite every one though ; for, looking
round him, he perceived Marcin sauntering over the
grass. The very first question which he put to Marcin,
as soon as the brunt of greeting, the unavoidable
embrace, and the customary salute on both cheeks,
had been got over, was —

Is that giant Tiburtio here or not ? "

iso," said Marcin, staring hard. " Did you get
my letter ? "

Yes, I did."

Marcin still gazed at him rather inquiringly. " Then
you don't mind so very much ? "

*' Oh no ; it is all right," laughed Kazimir, " especially
if he is not here." Everything seemed to be all
right, now that he was so near her. " And the wedding
is really to be tomorrow ? "

Yes, it is. Lucyan was in such an awful hurry to
have the grass growing under his feet."

I have come, then, not a day too soon. Which is
the way to the wood ? "

They walked towards the wood, while the setting
sun blazed straight in their eyes. Overhead the
stretch of fading blue seemed as though flecked with

crimson foam ; the branches of beeches and fir trembled
against a blood-red sky.

The brothers walked in silence along the forest-path,
which, edged with a mossy rim, and powdered
with the bronze of fallen pine-needles, struck straight
into the gloom of green shade. Here the tree-roots,
heaving up through the rich earth, crawled across the
path, bulging and contorting themselves like twisted
snakes ; and the stripped and capriciously gnawed
fir-cones which strewed the ground, spoke of the
appetites and sometimes of the whims of the squirrels
in the tree-tops.

It is rather like looking for a drop in a bucket,
isn't it?" remarked Marcin, when they had walked
some minutes and seen no signs of the others.

They cannot be far," said Kazimir. " We must
find them."

Ah, there is one of the drops in the bucket ; who
is it? Lucyan? I shall leave you to him, and go
back. It is such fatiguing work to see people getting
married."

He had turned, and was sauntering back, while
Kazimir alone went forward to meet Lucyan. Lucyan
had not noticed him yet. With his hands behind his
back, and his eyes on the ground, he was slowly
approaching. Kazimir had never before seen his
brother's face fixed with this frown of intense thought.

So deep was his abstraction, that Kazimir had got
within four paces of him and had not yet been perceived.
" I shall give him a start after all," thought
Kazimir, with boyish delight, and he walked on tiptoe
over the moss. He put his hand down quickly on his
brother's shoulder. "Lucyan!" he said in his ear.
The shoulder under his hand seemed to give a convulsive
twitch at that word. With a shiver and a
start, Lucyan raised his head. Kazimir had given
him a fright, a much greater fright than he at all
imagined. With astonishment Kazimir stood witness
of it. Never till this moment had he seen Lucyan
in want of self-possession — never had it even occurred
to him that his youngest brother could turn pale with
fright, surprise, or any other emotion. And now
Lucyan stood confronting him, pale to the very lips,
staring at his brother with a gaze as wild as though
Kazimir had been shot at Solferino, and come here
straight from his Italian grave. The man who, thinking
himself on safe ground, sees a deadly mine sprung under
his feet ; the seaman who has steered a costly ship
through troublous waves, and beholds, within very
sight of the port, the leak which must sink him ; the
player who has played a hazardous game with luck
and skill to back him, and who feels his hand arrested
as he is about to grasp the prize, — might stare
with a gaze as wild as that. But why should a

brother receive his brother with this fixed look of
horror ?

What have you come for ? " faltered Lucyan, not
yet master of himself

Why, for your wedding, of course," said Kazimir,
half laughing in the attempt to shake off the strange
impression of Lucyan's gaze. It was so unusual a
thing to see Lucyan disconcerted, that it reacted upon
and disconcerted Kazimir himself. " You did not
expect me, did you ? "

No, I did not expect you."

Are you not glad to see me ? You have not given
me your hand yet."

To be sure." He put out his hand with a strange
and unusual timidity to meet his brother's grasp.
That hand struck cold upon Kazimir's palm ; it
seemed to shrink under the strong pressure.

And now," said Kazimir, " where are they all ? I
want to congratulate your bride."

Where are they ? " repeated Lucyan, looking still
somewhat scared, though the colour was slowly
flowing back to his face. " We need not go there
now."

Oh, but I need to go. Which is the way ? "

This way, then," said Lucyan, hurriedly, and he
struck into a side-path, and walked rapidly along it.

Are you sure this is the way ? " asked Kazimir.
VOL. II. H

*• Is it not wonderful, Lucyan, my arrival just on the
eve of your wedding ? "

Very wonderful." Lucyan spoke slowly.

And I never knew anything about the date being
changed. It is fortunate that the papers reached you
in time. You got them all right, of course ? "

Yes, I got them all right",

•' Everything was clear, was it not ? "

Oh yes, everything was clear." As Lucyan's
calmness returned, the habitual sneer bec^an to dawn
again in his voice. " You took precious care to make
it all clear. What put it into your head to set a
lawyer at me ? "

Oh, he offered himself, and I was very glad to be
saved the trouble. You know what a bad hand I am
at business."

Well, you are satisfied, I suppose ? "

Oh yes, perfectly ; but there are a few points
which I don't quite understand."

What points 1 " asked Lucyan, quickly.

The Auditor said I was to put some questions to
you. Are you sure we are on the right path ? The
thing that puzzles me is, that I once heard my mother
say that, if she died, our portions would realise thirty-four
or thirty-five thousand florins."

'* You heard her say that ? " Lucyan turned on the
path and stood still.

Yes, I am quite sure I heard that. What could
she have meant exactly ? Perhaps I am making some
great mistake."

Lucyan, having stood motionless for a moment,
appeared suddenly to recollect himself, and burst out
lauohinor.

A great mistake ! I should rather think you are
making a great mistake, Kazimir. But you heard
quite right all the same. Of course our ]portions
amount to thirty-four or thirty-five thousand florins.
Our united portions do ; do you understand ? oSTot
each separate one."

Oh, that is it, then ! " said Kazimir, who all the
time was scanning the shade of the forest around
them. " How stupid of me to make such a huge
mistake 1 "

Is there anything else which the Auditor told you
to ask me ? "

Nothing," laughed Kazimir, " except when I am
to get my twelve thousand florins ? "

Lucyan gently shrugged his shoulders, and, taking
ois his hat, he mechanically drew forth the comb.
We shall see about that some day soon. You can
hardly expect me to talk business on the eve of my
wedding-day."

The plea was so natural, that Kazimir's own conduct
struck himself as unfeeling and unbrotherly,

verging on the sordid. Such a thing as money should
not even be mentioned on the eve of such a day.

But where is everybody gone to ? " he cried.
Lucyan, where have you hidden Panii Vizia ? " He
was following his brother again along the path : and
as the track was so narrow that they could walk but
single file, Kazimir could not guess what his brother's
face was like. Lucyan was plucking off the leaves in
passing; perhaps he had not heard Kazimir's words,
for he made no answer to them. He had recovered
his calmness now, almost entirely, and he was slowly
bracing himself to an effort.

I hear voices," said Kazimir, standing still. '' I
am sure I hear voices over there. You are taking mein
the wrong direction, Lucyan."

'' You are mistaken ; they are not there — they cannot
be there." In Lucyan's voice there were some symptoms
of excitement. " This is the way, I tell you."
He walked on a few paces in haste, but Kazimir no
longer followed. He stood still listening beside the
clump of bushes on the other side. He heard the
faint trickling of water and the hum of the gnats in
the air, but above it he heard the murmur of voices
hard by.

"Avait a moment," said Lucyan, springing to his
brother's side.

I have waited long enough ; I am sure they

are there. Don't you hear the voices quite distinctly
? "

Stop ! for heaven's sake, Kazimir, stop ! " cried
Lucyan, seizing his brother by the arm. " I must
speak to you first. You seem to think "

But just then there broke upon Kazimir's ear the
ripple of a laugh so clear, so fresh, so light-hearted
and free, so much more entrancing than he had ever
remembered it. He was not to be held a moment
longer ; he scarcely heard his brother's words, nor
gave one glance to his face. Breaking away from
Lucyan, he burst through the tangle of bushes, sprang
on to the half-cleared space beyond, and then stood
still at sight of the group before him.

There were four people in the group. There was an
old gentleman whom Kazimir had never seen before —
a grave and important-looking old gentleman, with a
double chin, and whiskers as white as his broad and
dazzling waistcoat ; there was an elderly lady equally
strange to Kazimir, dangling a gold-rimmed eye-glass
by a string, and gathering up a silk train from the
moss; there was Vizia, in a dead-black dress, without
one sign of bridal-like ornament about her ; and there
was Xenia, in slighter mourning, relieved by a bunch
of brilliant roses in her belt. On a rustic table alongside
there lay more such roses heaped on each other.
Upon this group, as they stood together, Kazimir's

sudden appearance through the bushes seemed to
have produced a stupefying effect. The old gentleman,
tapping his waistcoat, raised his eyebrows to
such a preposterous height that they appeared to
vanish under his hat-brim ; the elderly lady ceased to
dangle her eye-glass, and applied it to her eye with
an exclamation of shrill astonishment ; Vizia turned
pale ; and Xenia, leaning with one arm against a tree,
flushed scarlet up to the temples. Of the four expressions
on the four faces this last one was the only one
which Kazimir saw ; and at sight of the emotion so
plainly marked, more marked even than he had looked
for, his spirit bounded with delight. He went straight
towards her, seeing nobody but her, and took her hand
warmly. " I have come back, Panii Xenia," he said.

My dear," began the elderly lady, in a high cracked
voice, turning towards Vizia as she spoke, " who is
this — this — man ? " The elderly lady would have preferred
to employ the word " gentleman," but it grated
upon her principles — and she had a great many, and
abnormally high principles — to use the word with
regard to an individual who appears crashing through
a thicket of bushes, and, looking to neither right nor left,
walks straight up to a young lady, takes her hand,
presses it— presses it, I say — and remarks that he has
come back. No; such an individual could not be
entitled to a higher appellation than man.

There was a hurried answer which Kazimir did not
catch, but he heard the result it produced.
- " Oh, indeed I " said the cracked voice again, partially
lowered this time. " So this is the unfortunate
young man ! Just what I expected, just what I feared."
The gold eye-glass was up again, and, with a most
penetrating and excruciating keenness, was travelling
from the crown of Kazimir's head to the soles of his
feet and up again to the crown, hanging upon every
button as though to pierce its inward nature.

How distressing ! how very, very painful ! "

Although the eye-glass failed to produce the full
effect intended, yet it did produce some. Kazimir did
not know what had been either expected or feared
with regard to him, but the scrutiny aroused him to
the sense of his certainly strange behaviour. He had
made no effort to present himself to this unknown
lady, he had not even saluted his brother's bride.
With an effort he dropped Xenia's hand, which unconsciously
he still held, and turned towards Xenia's
cousin.

Forgive my forgetfulness," he said, earnestly. " I
know you understand the reason. I am so glad that
1 came in time to offer my good wishes to my future
sister-in-law." The words all but died on his lips at
sight of the stony stare which greeted him. Vizia
started back before he had done speaking.

"What is this?" she said, hurriedly. "There is
some mistake."

Another mistake ! " echoed Kazimir, half-smiling,
and half vaguely alarmed. " I make nothing but
mistakes to-day."

The elderly lady gave a shriek, and quickly stifled
it with a lace handkerchief.

May I ask this gentleman to explain his — hem —
peculiar conduct?" demanded the whiskered man, strutting
forward, straightening out his white waistcoat
stroking his white whiskers, and swelling with
importance, till his double chin became almost
triple.

"Am I dreaming or awake ?" said Kazimir, rubbing
his eyes and shaking himself to make sure.

'' More likely dreaming than awake ; and, young
man," said the old gentleman severely — " young man,
I hope you are sober."

"He is drunk ; I knew he was," said the elderly
lady, getting behind the old gentleman. " He is certainly
either drunk or mad."

If you were both awake and sober," resumed the
speaker, " you could scarcely have been guilty of this
strange mistake."

Will some one explain it, then ? " asked Kazimir,
throwing back his head, and eyeing the old gentleman
fully as haughtily as the old gentleman eyed him.

I am right in saying that this lady is my brother's
bride."

Perversity ! " shrieked the cracked voice over the
old gentleman's shoulder. " Perversity or insanity,
which is it ? "

You are wrong, young man. It is that lady who
is your brother's bride ! "

That is a lie," said Kazimir, promptly, as the old
gentleman motioned towards Xenia.

/•' Young man, remember where you are!" said the
whiskered man, with cutting severity.

Do not irritate him, pray," said the cracked voice
again. "It is not safe. Do you not see how wild he
looks?"

Kazimir had turned towards Xenia with a confident
question on his lips, but the question was not spoken,
for the girl stood now shrinking against the tree-stem,
with her hands pressed over her drooping face. Everyone
around was gazing at him with looks of cold
astonishment.

Was this his welcome home ?

It is a lie," repeated Kazimir, a little lower.
Lucyan, why do you not tell them that it is a lie ?
Where are you, Lucyan ? "

Lucyan was there, two paces behind him, having
watched the scene in silence. He met his brother's
eyes full, but to the appeal he made no answer ; and

that set look on Lucyan's face was the first real blow
dealt to Kazimir's faith that day.

Lucyan, explain this on the instant ! " said Kashmir,
vehemently.

Hush I " said Lucyan. " In God's name, hold
your tongue ! wait till we are alone."

I will not wait a moment," said Kazimir, whose
eyes were beginning to flare, and his nostrils to
dilate. " I insist upon the answer now, this moment
— before all these people, before all the world,
if necessary."

Take her away," said Lucyan aside to Vizia, seeing
that Kazimir was no longer to be silenced — " take
her away, and your aunt as well, and leave me alone
with him."

Vizia was already drawing her cousin towards the
path ; and the elderly lady, taking care to interpose
the old gentleman between herself and the dangerous
brother, was quickly following on their steps. There
had been no consultation beyond a mutual glance ;
but by common consent the brothers were left alone.

CHAPTER XXL

THE Thick DISPUTED.

Als ici Abschied nahin, als ici Abschied nahni

War die Welt mir vol so ser,

Als ici wiederkam, als ici wiederkara

War Allies leer."

RiJCKERT.

One of us two must be mad," said Kazimir, having
stood watching the retreating figures until the tree-stems
blocked 'his view, and he turned back towards
his brother. " One of us two must be mad, Lucy an ;
the question is, which ? "

Why jump to such desperate conclusions?" Lucyan,
now that the struggle had come, looked quiet,
though still very pale. " We are both perfectly sane ;
let us try to be calm as well."

Tell me then, plainly, which of these two girls are
you going to marry ? "

You have been told already plainly enough."

Tell me again," said Kazimir.

It is Xenia whom I am to marry."

To-morrow, you say ? "

*' To-morrow."

It is Xenia whom you are to marry tomorrow."
Kazimir repeated the words once, twice, thrice over,
as if striving to bring together two ideas which had
hitherto appeared so incongruous, that it had seemed
as if they must for ever lie apart. As yet he understood
without realising, and saw without believing.
You and Xenia." Something in the words made
him shudder in the same way he had shuddered when
he lead put back Lucyan's letter by mistake alongside
of the crystal flower. " You and Xenia. Is this a
joke, Lucyan ? " he asked, sternly.

It is not a joke."

Nor a mistake ? "

It is not a mistake ; how should there be a
mistake ? "

And she is willing to marry you ? "

My dear Kazimir, this is a strange question on
the eve of my wedding-day."

And she has forgotten me," said Kazimir, incredulously
; for a rock cannot be shattered by one blow,
nor a strong faith slain by one word. " She has forgotten
me so soon, and all her words and mine ? "

Lucyan's silence answered, " Yes."

Then," cried Kazimir, with a fearful burst of passion,
as all at once he understood and realised — " then

there has been treachery, Liicyan. I am betrayed,
and you have betrayed me. Treachery ! " he cried ;
and blind with the overwhelming pain, he threw himself
on his brother, and gripped him rudely by the
arm. Had Lucyan at this moment lost his coolness
or his temper — had he attempted to resist or
retaliate — it might have come to an ugly scene
between the brothers. Kazimir, provoked to wildness,
would have been capable of any act, however
mad. The younger brother's calmness alone checked
this; he made no effort even to shake off Kazimir's
hand, and he betrayed not the smallest sign of
fear.

If you want to knock me down, Kazimir," he said,
quietly, " you can do so very easily ; you are twice as
strong as I am."

Kazimir's grasp relaxed on the instant.

It will scarcely do Xenia much good if we fight
about her," added Lucyan.

Kazimir flung off his hand and turned away. Lucyan
had hit the right chord. Even at this moment of his
keenest anguish — even in the depth of the bewilderment
which still blinded him — Kazimir revolted at
the idea of making Xenia the subject of a vulgar
brawl.

And now," said Lucyan, stroking out the sleeve
which Kazimir's grasp had crushed into unsightly

creases — "now, perhaps, you will give me your objections
to my marriage. What do you mean by
treachery ? "

Your marriage ! " The plain words were not to
be borne yet. Kazimir turned savagely on his brother.
How dare you say that to me — to nne ! You don't
knows God, this is madness ! "

Be quiet, Kazimir ; you are childish. AVhat do
you mean by treachery ? "

I mean by treachery," said Kazimir between his
teeth, "that you should have pretended an engagement
to one cousin, when you were meaning to marry
the other."

Pretended an engagement ! " repeated Lucyan, ina
tone of utmost surprise. " Explain that, Kazimir.
When did I ever pretend ? "

Did you not yourself announce to me your engagement
to Vizia Eogdanovics ? "

To Vizia Eogdanovics ! Never 1 You are labouring
under some strange delusion."

Did you not, on the day I left home, as much as
acknowledge your intentions ? "

My intentions of marrying some day — yes, undoubtedly."


'did you not, under my very eyes, pay her the
most marked attentions last winter?"

"Kazimir, be calm; I implore of you to be calm.

If you were calm, you would see that I paid no more
attentions to Vizia than you did yourself."

What do you mean ? " asked Kazimir, dum-foundered.


I mean only that, if any one paid attention to
Vizia last winter it was you."

Lucyan, how dare you say that ? Have you forgotten
the evening of the Krakowiak, and the red
rose you gave her?"

And have thou forgotten the talk in my room upstairs,
and the azalea which you begged from me for
her?"

Oh, but that was before," began Kazimir, a little
disconcerted.

I don't know what it was before," said Lucyan,
skilfully pursuing his advantage. " And since weare
on the subject of that evening, of course you
weill have no objection to telling me what passed
between you and Vizia on the verandah in the
moonlight ? "

Oh, that — that," said Kazimir, eagerly, and then
hesitated, as the scene flashed back over his memory
He had no right to betray Vizia's words of that
evening.

I thought so," said Lucyan, with a quiet shrug of
his shoulders. " Don't be afraid ; I am not going to
press the point."

"You are entirely mistaken," burst out Kazimir,
hotly.

Lucyan raised his hand. " That is not the question.
Granted that you had no serious intentions towards
Vizia, and granted that I may have appeared to have
paid her some slight attention, what has that to do
with my marriage ? Has not a man the right to
change his mind ? There never could have been any
question of my marrying Vizia ; on the score of money
alone such a thing would have been impossible."

This was not the moment, nor indeed was it likely
that Lucyan would ever find any moment convenient
to explain to Kazimir the mistake which had been
made on that Saba eve six months ago ; how,
through the fault of a red shawl, he had mistaken one
cousin for the other, and how the supposed poor
cousin it was who owned the 70,000 florins ; while
the supposed rich one had since been left all but
destitute by her enterprising father.

Besides," said Lucyan, with a curious glance at
Kazimir, " I am inclined to think that / should have
had no chance in that quarter."

You knew that I loved her," said Kazimir, heeding
none of these allusions, and he faced straight towards
his brother.

Lucyan returned the gaze with a look of unshrink-

My dear Kazimir, how could I have made so wild
a guess ? "

You knew it," repeated Kazimir.

Did you ever tell me so 1 "

Not in words perhaps ; but I thought you saw it."

If you mean that I noticed a slight flirtation, you
are quite right ; it was rather difficult, to be sure, to
make out which of the two girls it was that you preferred
; but I daresay it was Xenia with whom you
imagined yourself in love at the time. I do not blame
you in the least, mind ; a man who is as irresistible
to the fair sex as you are, Kazimir, is quite right, if
he flits from flower to flower, sipping the "

Enough of that, Lucyan ; I am in no humour for
joking. If you never guessed the truth, why then
should you have kept your real engagement secret
from me ? "

You do not seem to have got my letters."

Oh yes, I got letters ; but you spoke only of
Mademoiselle Rogdanovics ; you spoke so purposely.
It was a plot," said Kazimir, fiercely.

Lucyan shrugged his shoulders. "I suppose if I
talk from now till midnight, I will not get you to
understand that either you cannot have taken the
trouble to read my letters, or that some of them cannot
have reached you. I daresay that I spoke of her
sometimes as Mademoiselle Eogdanovics, and some-vol.

II. I

times by her name. Is it my fault that posts should
go astray ? "

Kazimir, for one moment, was silenced. Was he
not, after all, wronging Lucy an in this at least ?
What more natural than that posts should go astray
in a time of war ? A vision of undeceived, candid,
and brotherly letters, certainly did alter the case a
little.

'' Then you really never guessed?" repeated Kazimir,
a little lower.

Ask yourself whether I could have guessed. Did
you so much as hint at the matter on that last day
when we talked together ? "

Again Kazimir stood silent; he remembered very
well that he had carefully refrained from hinting at
the matter.

Had you confided your intentions to me, I should
of course have respected them ; but how was I to
hazard such a guess ? More especially as your letters
were full of rhapsodies about a captain's wife with
golden hair and a warm heart."

Poor Madame Baroly ! " exclaimed Kazimir.
What about her ? "

"Ah, well, what about her? That is just the
question ; it looked remarkably as if there was something
about Madame Baroly."

Kazimir's scorn all but choked him at the moment ;

he gave his brother a bitterly contemptuous glance,
and turned his head away.

You see, therefore, that in face of your flirtation
with the captain's pretty wife, it was rather hard to
expect anybody to look upon anything else as serious."

I had no flirtation with the captain's wife."

Your friendship, then," conceded Lucyan.

My friendship was with her husband."

But he was shot very soon, was he not 1 and the
pretty wife became a pretty widow."

I see," said Kazimir, pale with rage ; " you frightened
her with that. Poor child ! And yet she might
have trusted me after that evening ; after we said goodbye
to each other in the salt-mine."

"Yes, I heard about the salt-mine," said Lucyan,
covering his sneer with a smile. " Don't be alarmed ;
I am not narrow-minded enough to be hard upon her
about that little escapade. Most girls have done
something foolish in their day, — and, after all, a kiss
is neither here nor there."

Kazimir, to whom these words seemed like the
blasphemous desecration of a sanctuary, stood and
panted for breath, unable to speak.

I had some difficulty, though," Lucyan was saying,
with that same faint smile, "to make her aunt seethe
thing in its true light ; she was so inexpressibly
shocked ; it was really hard work to get her to understand

that that was just your way of going on, and
that you meant nothing by it."

I meant everything by it," gasped Kazimir, trembling
with passion.

She would insist that her niece was compromised."

Compromised by me ! " cried Kazimir, with a
bitter laugh. He had believed hitherto that the
sacrifice of his life to save the faintest breath from
falling on Xenia's fame would have been but a small
thins ; now, it seemed this was all a mistake. His
own conduct was being painted for him in the blackest
of black hues. He had compromised her! he had
wronged her ! Had he really been such a monster ?
he asked himself aghast. Was it he who had been
injuring her, while it was Lucyan who was her real
protector ? •' No, it cannot be, it shall not be ! " he
burst out afresh ; " it is impossible, monstrous I it
could never be ! She has been frightened, bewitched,
poor child ! She belonged to me before she belonged
to you ! "

If there was any promise," began Lucyan.

Promise ? No, there was no promise ; she was to
wait for me if she loved me. She does not love me ;
she does not love me ! " cried poor Kazimir ; and he
flung himself, face foremost on the table, crushing the
roses which lay there with the weight of his arms,
and, despite of his manhood, and his twenty-six years,

lie burst into bitter sobs. He was shaken to the very-depth
of his soul; but though shaken, he was not
stunned : that mercy was not granted him, as it is
given to many weak men. The feeble patient faints
under the operator's knife, and is spared the moment
of agony. But the patient to be pitied is he who
retains his senses, and with them the keen realisation
of each cut. Kazimir's sensations were intensified
rather than deadened. He saw now, and he believed.
He wondered how he could suffer this and be still
alive ; he wondered how he could see his brother
standing by and not kill him.

Lucyan leant alongside, motionless. For a bridegroom,
on the eve of his wedding-day, it must be confessed
that he was bearing a good deal, and with an
admirable patience. He had known that there would
be a burst of reproaches, though he had not known
that it would come on this day ; but he quailed a little
at the violence of this. As he watched the heaving
of Kazimir's shoulders, it would perhaps not be fair
to say that he did not feel for his brother; but neither
would it be true to say that he did not feel more
keenly for the roses than for his brother. Each flower-head
which he saw flattened under Kazimir's arms
gave him a distinct stab of pain. He was moved to
spring forward and rescue the ill-used roses with
tender hands, but he was wise enough to see that such

a course would be unsafe. It was a sacrifice; but
Lucyan was quite able to make such a sacrifice when
necessary. Men, in moments of frantic grief, require
to be humoured ; and Lucyan was generous enough to
humour his brother at this moment. It gave him no
pleasure to see this suffering, for in every undisguised
display of human feeling there is something which
ruffles the delicacy of a fastidious taste ; and Lucyan's
taste was of the most fastidious. Neither was his
cruelty a vulgar cruelty ; it was only that having one
plain object in life, he made his way towards it, treading
upon every obstacle in his path. That the obstacle
to be trodden happened to be a brother was a mere
accident of circumstance ; and no really great man
allows himself to be deterred from his end by a mere
accident of circumstance. As he stood now, watching
his brother in this paroxysm of grief, he was cool
enough to look right through the midst of the paroxysm,
and to see that the victory in the struggle
would be on his own side.

But to Kazimir there was no future and no past :
he could not see an inch beyond the black night of
his misery. Slowly he began to recover from his burst
of tears. He had not cried for ten years ; his eyes had
been wet when he left his mother for the last time ;
but not since he had stood behind the beech-tree that
autumn morning, and watched his comrades riding off

towards Hungary, had lie wept as lie was weeping
now. Each of these long-sealed tears was drawn with
pain. His face was haggard with the strain when at
length he raised his head. He had believed in her so
firmly, and he had loved her so truly, and now he
knew that that love which already was bearing blossoms
must be cut off, root and branch, to wither without
fruit. He leant his head upon his hand, and drew
a long trembling breath.

Around the brothers the shadows were growing
long. The setting sun was shedding the last of its
brilliancy over the earth, like a princely prodigal who
has spent his gold with liberal hand all day, and at
nightfall, finding that he has much to spare, throws it
recklessly out, lavishing it upon such worthless things
as weeds and wayside flowers, gilding the very grass
as he scatters his largess through the forest. There
was scarcely a tree which did not stand belted with a
ring of pure gold, nor a leaf which did not flaunt with
a golden edge, or upon which golden spots were not
dancing. The blue-winged fetches stretched to reach
the gold, or stooped to catch it as it fell ; even the
yellow ragwort, greedy of more brightness, were gilding
themselves over again ; and the daisies, too short
to stretch, scrambled for the fallen pieces, like the
children in a quarrelling crowd.

It was Lucyan who first broke silence. " Come,

Kazio," he said ; and no one could have complained of
the want of gentleness in his tone : ^' we are men after
all, and not boys. I am sorry for you ; but neither I
nor any one else can alter this. It is Fate whom you
must accuse, and not me. Just take an impartial review
of the situation. Here am I, an unpretending
farmer, who has never been out of his country. My
wish is to settle down quietly in life. I am thrown
in the way of a girl of suitable fortune and birth, to
whom I become attached : finding my attachment
returned, and finding, too, that she is free, is there
anything strange or unnatural in that I should marry
her ? "

Kazimir, staring fixedly before him, and tearing
rose after rose to pieces, had no answer to give. What
Lucyan said sounded both sensible and kind.

And," continued the other, in a lighter tone, " considering
that the families on both sides are perfectly
agreed, and that all arrangements are fixed for the
quiet wedding, is it not a little hard upon the unpretending
farmer, if, on the eve of the wedding, his brilliant
soldier-brother returns in a flush of excitement,
and, bursting in upon the scene, comports himself like
a maniac, and storms and talks of treachery ? — all upon
the strength of having once stolen a kiss in a salt-mine
? Where is the treachery now, — eh, Kazimir ? "

Kazimir frowned, and threw a bit of stick at a

blackbird, who, perched on a fir-branch, was singing
his evening song hard by.

What is that for, Kazimir?" smiled Lucyan.

"Bah ! he is singing all out of tune," said Kazimir,
with a shiver.

You would have thought as I do," continued Lucyan,
" if the cases had been reversed, and you had been
the successful man, and I the disappointed one. And
is it not rather unreasonable of you, after having gone
on playing knave of hearts all round, and amusing
yourself with a pretty widow in Italy, to come home,
and expect to find everything unchanged ? Qui va a
la chasse, perd sa place, you know."

I have told you that I was not amusing myself
with the pretty widow."

'consoling the pretty widow, then," corrected Lucyan
; and his smile began to reappear. '^ Come now,
you are beginning to see sense, are you not? Seriously,
Kazimir, you do not wish that we should
all change brides at the last moment, as in a French
vaudeville ? "

All I know is," replied Kazimir, sullenly, " that
the wedding shall not take place until I hear from her
own lips that she wishes it."

''Do you not think," said Lucyan, after a pause,
that it will be better, easier for you, if you left hereat
once, before the wedding? It would be a hard

moment ; I doubt your strength to bear it. People
might be a little surprised, of course ; but that does
not signify, even if they talk "

*' Talk ! talk about her ! " cried Kazimir, starting
from the bench ; " no, they shall have no food for their
chatter. I shall not go ; I shall stay. Why should I
not bear it? Other men have borne it too, and remained
alive ; have they not, Lucyan ? I am a man,
after all ; I am strong ; I shall get over it ; I shall
live it down ! " All this time he was stamping about
the moss, with his hands convulsively clenched, and
his lips twitching under his efforts at calmness.

Ha, ha ! " he burst out, with a harsh laugh. " That
bullet, that bullet at Magenta ! it was not for Baroly
that it was meant ; it was for me. How much more
convenient for every one if I had been shot ! how
much pleasant for her ! "

He stood still for a moment ; then, without looking
at his brother, turned, and took two rapid strides
down the path.

Where are you going, Kazimir ? " asked Lucyan,
gravely ; and in a moment he was by his brother's
side, and had laid a hand on his arm.

I am going to her," said Kazimir, defiantly. " I
insist upon seeing her ; you cannot prevent me, Lucyan
: she is not your wife yet."

I do not wish to prevent you," was the calm

answer. It was Lucyan's system always to give way
on every point except the one at stake.

I shall see her alone," said Kazimir.

Of course you shall see her alone. I can trust
her with you, Kazimir. You are not going to persuade
her to— do anything foolish ? "

I am not going to persuade her to do anything at
all. I am going to ask for an answer only." And
Kazimir shook off his brother's hand, and strode away
down the path.

I have made him harmless," muttered Lucyan to
himself, as, worn out with the last half-hour, he threw
himself upon the deserted bench. The great secret of
success in life is to hit upon your neighbour's weak
point, and beggar him by trading upon it. Lucyan
had found out long ago that Kazimir's weak point was
his honour.

And Kazimir, meanwhile, was striding down the
path, through the midst of the twilight shadows. The
forest had been full of gold when he entered it this
evening ; and now that he turned back, the forest was
all dark.

Chapter XXII.

THE LOSING SUIT.

"Sie nankeen mich den Rosen,
Und Du hast Allies geglaubt."

—Heine.
. . "I have given thee much,
I gave thee what I can ne'er recall ;
I gave my heart, I gave my peace,
Oh heaven ! I gave thee all."

Coleridge.

Oh, why have you come back ? " sobbed Xenia, when
she and Kazimir were face to face and alone. " Why
have you come back to make every one unhappy ? It
was all going right before ! "

The question had stared him in the face so often today,
that he began to put it to himself, Wliy had he
come back ? Again it struck him most forcibly that
that bullet at Magenta had hit the wrong mark ; the
right mark should have been his heart. Two women
would have been the happier for it ; one, because she
would have kept an adored husband — the other, because
she would have lost an inconvenient lover.
Scarcely an hour ago he had been laughing to himself

at the thought of the surprise and the pleasure which
his sudden appearance was to bring, and now he was
already wondering whether the news of his death
would not have been more welcome than the news
of his arrival. The other greetings he could afford
to do without, but Xenia's greeting stabbed him to
the heart. Nothing to-day had hurt him so much as
it hurt him now to see her fear of him. He had seen
her look as frightened only once before — on the day
when they had seen the wolf in the forest. That day
she had clung to him for protection, and to-day it
seemed as though she wished to be protected against
him. He had come into her presence bitter and hot,
with heavy reproaches burning on his lips ; but the
very first glance disarmed him. Her weakness broke
his strength ; the tearful eyes, raised to him in terrified
pleading, took the edge off his cutting words. What
can a man do when a woman cowers before him, not
raising a finger to defend herself as she awaits the
blow, saying in every line of her shrinking figure,
Strike me, if you will ! " and doing nothing but looking
frightened and defenceless and beautiful ? It would
be like striking a child ; and Kazimir could not do it.
Do not cry," he said, speaking as gently as though
the guilt of faithlessness had been on his side, and not
on hers. " Your tears hurt me, Xenia ; I am not going
to scold you. I only want to know whether you can

explain to me how it comes to be thus " Unconsciously
he was reasoning, as one reasons with a child,
and unconsciously, too, he was suppressing every outward
sign of his own suffering for fear of increasing
hers. " I want only to know whether you have forgotten
what you said then, — that time in the salt-mine
; you said that you loved me, you know ? "

The salt-mine ! " She looked up with scared blue
eyes, gazing at him in a sort of terror through her
tears. "Please, never speak of the salt-mine again.
I did not know it was so wrong of me, or I should not
have done it, really."

Who told you it was wrong ? "

Oh, my aunt, and my guardian, and everybody ;
they all scolded me so much, and they would have
scolded me more, but Lucyan" — she broke off just
here, and glanced nervously around her — " is that not
Lucyan coming ? " she said quickly.

There was no one coming, but Kazimir had received
a fresh cut : was she so desperately in love with
Lucyan that she could not keep her attention from
him for five minutes ? " Lucyan begged for me," continued
Xenia, " and he said that it was not so much

my fault as " she hesitated, afraid of hurting his

feelings.

As mine," finished Kazimir, grimly. " That is what
they said, was it not ? Well, perhaps they were right ;

perhaps it was all my fault ; perhaps it was wrong of
me to have told you in the salt-mine that I loved you ;
but I did tell you so, and you answered my question
with yes. Even your aunt and your guardian could
not unsay the words, could they ? "

It was a mistake," sobbed Xenia, incoherently, " it
was all a mistake; and I was not sure; and you hurried
me so ; and Lucyan said that girls never know their
own minds. And then I asked Vizia ; but she was so
hard and so unkind (she is never kind now, as she
used to be), she said she was the last person in the
world who could advise me, and that I must decide
for myself: she told me that if I could doubt for
one moment, I could not really — love you. And then
everybody pressed me, and I could not help it— I
really could not help it ; and then " — the quivering
voice was choked in tears.

And you never thought," broke out Kazimir, with
a swelling heart, "that during all that time I was
living only on our last words of parting, that the
thought of you was my whole happiness, and that the
hope of seeing you again was the only thing which
kept up my courage ? You never thought that I was
thanking God on my knees every evening for having
let me live another day which brought me nearer to
you ? You never thought that, Xenia ? "

But," said Xenia, checking her tears for a moment,

it was not like that, you know. You did not think
of me like that."

Shall I swear it to you ? "

Oh no, please, do not swear ; but they told me
that" — she faltered and grew crimson.

What did they tell you, Xenia ? "

They said that you did not care for me any longer ;
that you cared for somebody else."

They dared to tell you that ? "

A beautiful lady with golden hair," added Xenia,
with a quick uplifting of her head, and the tiniest
touch of feminine jealousy in the midst of her helpless
sobs.

Madame Baroly ! Madame Baroly again ! dressed
up into a sort of scarecrow to frighten away this innocent
child. There was something so supremely and
grimly humorous about the idea, that Kazimir could
almost have found it in him to laugh out loud, only
that his mood was more akin to tears.'

And you were actually got to believe that ? "

I saw it in your letters to Lucyan ; I saw," — in the
midst of her tears, Kazimir could but catch the words
golden-haired beauty," and " charming." He was on
the point of breaking into vehement explanations,
but he checked himself in time. It struck him j must
then that explanations can do good only when they
have a chance of being understood.

And if, Xenia," he said with forced quiet, " if you
had known that it was all untrue, and that I had been
faithful to you the whole time, what would you have
done then?"

Oh, I don't know ; please do not ask me." This
phase of the case was rather too deep for Xenia to
fathom. '' What is the use of thinking of that now ?
Hadn't we better not talk of it at all ? I am so sorry
that you mind it so much ; but then, if you really had
cared for me in that way, you would not have gone
away to the war, or have stayed there so long. It was
all a mistake, and I meant nothing at all that time, —
nothing at all, really," she added, most earnestly.
It was all so long ago, you know."

"It was all just four months and a half ago,"
thought Kazirair. Four months ! Yes — a long time
it had been to Avait in ; but ah, what a short time
to love in !

"Of course it was a very long time ago," said
Kazimir slowly, sighing as he spoke ; " but do you
not think that it would have been kinder to me if
you had let me know sooner that you had ceased to
care for me ? "

Xenia raised her eyes to him in genuine surprise.

But you knew that already."

"No, I did not guess it," said Kazimir, with a
smile which was ghastly.

VOL. 11. K

But then you never read my message ? "

Which message ? '*' he questioned with a gleam of
hope.

'•' I wrote it at the bottom of Lucyan's letter, because
I thought that, after all, you might still be thinking of
it a little," said Xenia, humbly ; " and you sent me
good wishes in return."

"I never got that letter," said Kazimir, after a
pause ; perhaps this was one of the undeceived letters,
of which Lucyan seemed to have written so many:
and the good wishes I sent were not meant for
you."

You did not get the message ? what a pity ! But
it does not make any difference now, you know."

*' Difference ? Xo ; but it tells me at least that yon
were not deceiving me. You really thought that I
knew everything ; is that Chute true, Xenia ? "

It was quite true ; her lips said it, and her blue eyes
said it too, as she raised them in childish frankness.
For that small mercy Kazimir could be thankful ; she
had not meant to deceive him.

'•'You love my brother, then?" he asked abruptly;
for he could not be quiet on her account, until he had
heard that assurance from herself.

She started at the question, just as she had started
a minute ago, when she thought to hear Lucyan's step.
Twisting her wet handkerchief between her fingers,

she answered hurriedly, "Of course I do; I must;
why do you ask me?" She grew red, as she said
it, and then the bright flush fading, left her. very
pale.

And you mean to marry him tomorrow ? " He
was not quieted yet. There was a strange nervousness
about her ; perhaps but the result of this trying
scene.

Of course I do ; " she looked at him in genuine
surprise. "My dress came back two days ago; and
my calling-cards are all printed."

Kazimir turned aside with a groan of discouragement,
and with a feeling of helplessness upon him.
There was nothing more about which to argue, and he
would have preferred to spare her more pain, by leaving
her at once. But Xenia heard the groan, and it
set her off crying again. She could not bear to witness
any suffering, and she did all her best to smooth
this away. She wished he would not mind it so
much, and really it was not her fault ; and it was such
a consolation to think that even had they wanted to
marry, her aunt and her guardian would never have
allowed it. They wished her to make a quiet steady
marriage, and they both said that Lucyan was just the
right sort of man ; and that they were quite sure that
she would be happy with him ; and that soldiers were
never steady ; and that it was very wrong of Kazimir

to have taken advantage of her inexperience in the
salt-mine, — and he must promise never, never to mention
the word again, for it made her quite hot to think
of it ; and they had also said that no honourable man
ever speaks to a girl first, but always to her guardians,
j must as Lucyan had done ; and Lucyan had said this, and
Vizia had said that ; and would he please not be angry
with her any more, for it was so unpleasant when people
were angry ; — and so on, and so on, round and round
in a tearful circle. It was so easy to read the history
of that sobbed-out narrative — it all lay so clear to the
light of day ; the little scruples, the little doubts, the
little struggles, the little sufferings of the little heart.
Angry with her ? Why, in heaven's name, should hebe
angry with her ? Could she have acted otherwise
than she had done ? She had been conscious of no
harm ; she had only been too sweet, and too gentle,
and too yielding, and too trustful, and too good
altogether. So willing was she to please everybody,
that her very tears and attitude seemed to say how
glad she would have been to marry both brothers — had
circumstances only permitted it — and thus make
everybody comfortable. True, she had done him the
greatest wrong which a woman can do a man ; but
she did not know that she had done it ; and she had
done it so that it seemed only to have raised her
nearer to the level of an angel. He had given her

the very flower of his love, and she had taken it with
the smile of an innocent child ; and with the smile of
an innocent child, too, she had cast it aside. She had
not cruelly plucked it or played with it ; but she had
been told to throw it aside, for that it was a bad and
poisonous flower, not good for little children — and she
had obeyed ; and now she was crying for fear of being
scolded for what she had done. Could there be any
talk of anger here ? It would be as reasonable to find
fault with a snowdrop for not having thorns, or to
quarrel with a seraph because he cannot suffer pain.
The sternest mood must needs have been softened in
face of these pleading eyes, and Kazimir's mood was
not stern. When he left her at last, it was with the
general impression that every one was to blame, excepting
her.

Indignation burned still hot in his heart, but not
against her. So hotly did it burn him, though, that it
pressed him to find some outlet for it ; his heart cried
out to be revenged on some one. The some one was
not hard to find. As he left Xenia he stumbled
straight on her cousin — the very victim he needed.
Vizia, who was so much harder, and stronger, and
better able to take care of herself, ought to have taken
care of that poor child.

Here there was nothing to disarm him, — no pleading
eyes, no penitent tears, no shrinking, and no fear.

With set and hardened face Vizia confronted him,
standing every inch of her ground in sullen defiance.
Why had she refused her advice to her cousin ? why
had she not taken better care of that frail flower?
why had she not prevented all this misery ? he asked
her, amidst the torrent of his reproaches. He had
confided his secret to her, thinking that she would
watch over his interests ; he had always looked up to
her as a true friend and a sensible woman, and now
she had cheated his friendship. To the poor tortured
woman every word was a stab ; but she had no fear of
breaking down now. This cruelty was not nearly so
cruel as his kindness ; nor did she fear his hard words
half as much as his soft ones, nor flinch at sight of his
frowns, though she trembled when she thought of his
smiles. She was strong enough to bear his enmity,
but she was too weak to bear his friendship.

Can I make wax into iron, or pools into oceans ? "
she asked, with scornful lip, as he paused in his wild
upbraiding. Never in his life had Kazimir spoken
thus harshly to a woman ; but neither had he ever
before been thus frantic with grief. Coming straight
from the presence of that timid beauty who was his
ideal of woman, the strength and self-reliance of Vizia
struck him almost as it would have struck him in a
man ; and he was as hard upon her, therefore, as he
could have been upon a man.

What was I to do ? " she asked, defiantly. " For
what is it you blame me ? "

For not having written to tell me the truth ; for
not having let me know that she was being robbed
from me ; for having allowed her to be frightened by
ridiculous stories about me — for, of course, you also
believed that romance of the pretty widow ? "

She met his eyes steadily, and steadily, though
very low, she answered —

Ko, I did not believe it."

never for a moment ? "

Never for a moment."

Strange ! but what good does that to me, since you
did not convince her ? Oh, if you had sent me but
one word to warn me of my danger ! "

Was it clear that there existed a danger ? What
else could I think but that you had given her up ? "

You might have guessed that of my own will I
would not give her up while I had life remaining."

And," questioned Vizia, over whose face, resolute
as it was, there shot a spasm of pain at his last words,
it is true, then, that you knew nothing of this ? that
you were in the dark till now ? "

Entirely in the dark. I came home in perfect
confidence, thinking that she was waiting for me, and
that it was you who were to be my brother's wife."

And you would have welcomed me as your

brother's wife ? " said Vizia, calmly, driving the 
deeper into her heart, with that savage instinct
of self-torture which belonged to her nature.

Of course I should. I sent you good wishes in
my letter."

I suspected it," she said, quickly.

You suspected what ? "

That your brother had wronged you."

Every one has wronged me, excepting her ; she is
innocent."

Listen," said Vizia, coming a step nearer. " You
have given up your rights to your brother, have you
not ? You have signed them away to him blindly ? "

What does it matter ? " said Kazimir, impatiently.
Nothing can give me her back again."

You have signed them away blindly ? " she repeated,
unheeding.

Yes, I have signed them away blindly, as you call
it ; what about it ? "

Only this, that you have done an act of folly."

I chose to do it," he said, moodily ; for the Auditor's
words came ringing in his ears just now.

You have helped your brother to marry Xenia. If
you had not signed that paper, her guardians would
never have given her away. It is too late to warn
you; but," — Vizia drew a hard breath, and between

her teeth she muttered, " your brother is a badman."


He started, not so much because the words had
frightened him by their strangeness, but rather because
they seemed to him so curiously familiar. Had
any one ever said them before? Surely it must be
so ? Why otherwise should he seem to know them so
well ? But precisely because of this start of recognition,
he felt more inclined to blame Vizia for being?
the cause of it. He was unreasonable in the excess of
his pain ; he chose to see nothing in Vizia's strangely-put
warning but i^he fears of a suspicious mind, tinged
perhaps by feminine jealousy : for Lucyan had. paid
attention to her first, and women, reasoned Kazimir,
are always jealous of one another. He asked her
somewhat haughtily what right she had to speak
thus of his brother ; and for fear, perhaps, of hearing
more against Lucyan, he left her as abruptly as he
had accosted her.

There was no one remaining to attack but Marcin ;
but even poor Marcin was not spared. Why had he,
along with the others, conspired to keep Kazimir in
the dark ? Here the question was met by a puzzled
stare. " But I told you all about it, Kazimir."

When, in heaven's name ? "

But in my letter, of course ; and you said you did

not mind it. I took so much trouble to make it clear,
for I did not want you to come here with a cat in a
bag, although I knew they would be angry with me
for letting the pig out of the poke."

The giant-phantom, erroneously conjured up by the
clearness of Marcin's letter, rose once more at the
words. How happy would Kazimir have been now
could he have had his giant-phantom back again !

CHAPTER Xxii.

PARTNERS PARTED.

. . . " We still have slept together,

Rose at an instant, learned, played, ate together. "

As You Like It.

Had Rogdanovics's body been unable to rest quiet iu
its grave, and had Rogdanovics's spirit desired to revisit
the world, the spot which it would have selected
to haunt should have been, without doubt, that on
which the Bhizanelkometer lay rusting, forgotten, and
unheeded. The Rhizanelhometer was the identical
machine which had cost Rogdanovics his life on that
March afternoon, when he strained a blood-vessel in
working it. Here, therefore, should his spirit have
hovered at nightfall, and moaned at midnight. The
Bhizanelhometer was the murderer, and should not have
been spared the ghost of the murdered man.

• Lodniki showed many signs of the change come over
it: six months ago it had borne on its face a false
flush of riches ; and now that was faded, — there remained

but the real paleness of poverty. The place
might be compared to an overset canvas, where
colour and material have fallen far short of the space
to be covered. Empty stables, neglected pathways,
unfinished buildings, told the story loudly enough;
but nothing told it so vividly or so pathetically as did
the rusting machine, in its wreck and abandonment.
It lay just where it had stood in that March afternoon
when it did its last work. No one had thought
it worth while to have it removed. Beside it the oak-stump,
which it had but half gripped, and failed to
wrench from the earth, stood its ground still undisturbed.
The helpless giant lay stretched at full length;
his huge frame rotting slowly, his iron claws red with
rust, his unwieldy limbs falling to pieces under the
damp of rain and dew. The flowers had conspired to
bind him ; the red nettles had choked up his wheels ;
the blue chicory laughingly held him prisoner in its
arms; the white bind weeds, smothering wherever they
creep, had twisted themselves round and round, and
roped him tight with their cords. Even the oak-stump
itself, like a prisoner reprieved from the gallows, had
picked up its spirits, and shot out a few green sprouts
into the face of the executioner, who had failed in his
stroke. In the twilight of this July evening, it might
have been thought from afar that the ghost had come
at last to haunt this chosen spot ; but those figures

were no ghosts. Vizia and Xenia were lingering
beside the fallen giant. They were alone; for the
visitors had left, and as yet those two were strangely
silent. Yizia, standing with her back against an iron
wheel, gazed straight in front of her towards the
shadows of the forest. This barrier of coldness between
them — and it was a barrier which had sprung
up weeks ago — was her work, and not Xenia's. Xenia
would fain have clung to her cousin as of old ; but
when, in her childish doubts, Xenia had come to her
for advice, something within the elder girl had made
her refuse any word of help. Despite the entreating
eyes, and despite the hands falteringly held out, she
had made her heart hard as a stone. She had turned
away, so as not to see the eyes, and she had pushed
back the soft fingers which would have clung to her in
their need.

Kazimir's words of to-day had startled her into self-analysis.
Why had she refused her help ? Why had
she turned her heart into a stone ? Was it, she asked
herself with horror, — was it that she had dared unconsciously
to hope for herself that which her cousin was
throwing aside as worthless ?

Her pride revolted at the thought of such meanness.
And yet it must be so, she argued with merciless persistency
; for other women — nobler and better women
she told herself, would have said to themselves a

hundred times devoutly, " Oh that she could be made
worthy of him ! " while Vizia had never said it to herself
once. She had seen how her cousin was throwing
aside a true diamond, and picking up a false stone in
its stead; and she had looked on in sullen silence.
If she does not know the real stone when she sees it,
why should I be the one to tell her ? " Such had been
her question. She had been conscious of nothing but
contempt and jealousy; so she told herself to-night.
And this hope, this torturing serpent of hope which
had wound itself unbidden round her heart, she would
look it in the face to-day, and crush it dead before
it had grown strong enough to do her harm, " I am
plain, unamiable, and bad-tempered," she repeated to
herself with a sort of savage zest. '' I am all this and
more ; do I still dare to hope ? Bah ! he will love her
with all the more hopeless love because he has been
robbed of her : he will be truer to her than if she had
been his wife."

Xenia's voice broke in upon the train of these bitter
reflections.

Has it not been a dreadful day ? " she asked
timidly, just as she had asked, " Has it not been a
charming day ? " on the evening of that on which
Kazimir had all but confessed his love to her. Vizia,
her face turned aside, answered that it had been
dreadful.

I feel quite tired with it," ventured Xenia again.
I was so frightened when they told me that I was to
speak to Kazimir Bielinski ; I thought he" would be so
angry ; and my aunt said it was not safe, and that she
was quite sure he would kill me."

But he did not, I suppose," remarked Vizia, drily.

Oh no ; he was really so kind ; and I had quite
forgotten how kind he could be : it is such a pity that
he will — will think of me like that ; " and Xenia hung
her head, and blushed the most beautiful blush as she
played with her curl. " It is so foolish of him, is it
not, Yizia ? "

Very," said Yizia, coldly, while her hand tightened
on the rusty chain which dangled beside her, creaking
a little as it swayed in the evening breeze.

He is so handsome," said Xenia, with a faint sigh
of undefined regret. " What a pity he is a soldier ! I

am so sorry for him ; he seemed to mind so much "

The dimpled chin went down, and two tears of pure
and tender pity ran over her cheek. But when she
had cried for a minute or so, she remembered that it
was her wedding-day tomorrow. "And it would
never do to have red eyes on my wedding-day," she
said, between smiles and tears ; " it would look so ill
with the white dress, would it not, Vizia ? "

Vizia said that of course it would ; and Xenia sat
silent for a moment.

Did you read the answer which they seat me
about the wedding-day in the ' Journal des Demoiselles
? ' " she presently began.

I never read the ' Journal des Demoiselles said
Vii a, stiffly.

I signed myself ' Fleur derange " volunteered
Xenia ; " and I asked — for it is so difficult to know
what one's manner should be like on the wedding-day
; and the answer is, — ' Teaches de conserver un
juste milieu : pas trop de reserve et pas trop de
familiarity.' "

Vizia made no remark.

I wonder," reflected Xenia aloud, while she pulled
off a head of blue chicory, " what they mean exactly
by ' trop de familiarity ' ? "

But even the vastness of question as to what the
Journal des Demoiselles ' might call reserve, and what
familiar, did not seem to have aroused Vizia's interest.
She leant where she stood motionless, her
head bent, and her eyes fixed before her. Xenia's lip
quivered" as she gazed at her cousin through the dusk ;
she had not had a kiss nor a caress for so long.

Vizia," — she crept up softly to her cousin's side, —
'' tell me why you are so changed, so unkind to me.
Won't you kiss me now? I am going away tomorrow,
you know."

I know," said Vizia, in a whisper.

A caressing hand was travelling over her cheek.
Tell me what has changed you so, Vizia. Oh, Vizia,
you have been crying ! your eyes are quite wet ; you
are crying still."

Hush ! I am not crying," said Vizia, more fiercely
than softly.

Tell me what it is," begged Xenia.

I cannot." Vizia shook her head, while with one
hand she stripped off the trails of white bindweed
beside her. She could not tell Xenia what her secret
was, nor explain that she was crying because she
yearned for one drop of that cup which Xenia had
pushed away, not caring to taste. But the tears alone
had done her good; that stony hardness was somewhat
melted. The touch of that soft hand on her
cheek cooled her heated spirit. Remorse seized upon
her at the thought of the many caresses which she had
refused within these last days and weeks. Years ago,
when they had both been children, Vizia had once, ina
nursery quarrel, thrown herself upon her cousin
and bitten her in the arm. Not half-a-dozen drops
of blood had flowed ; but never had remorse been so
bitter, nor had ever so complete and even violent
atonement been made for an injury. In a frantic fit
of penitence the culprit had insisted on presenting all
her toys to the victim ; and neither arguments, nor
persuasions, nor threats, had been capable of removing

VOL. II. L

Vizia from the side of Xenia's bed, where, child as she
was, she maintained her unnecessary watch all night,
keeping her eyes wide open through sheer force of
will.

Her life since then had been more or less a repetition
of that stormy incident. She was constantly
biting Xenia's arm ; and though she had now no toys
to give, she made up for it by giving her love, and
caresses, and penitence, with the same vehement generosity
with which she had given her large wax doll
and her broken tea-set. She hung perpetually between
the extremes of jealousy and love; for she passionately
wished to have her cousin's beauty and
sweetness, and the homage which these provoked ;
and what was this but jealousy ? But, again, she
would willingly have sacrificed the use of one of her
limbs to preserve to Xenia the perfection of a single
feature ; and what could this be but boundless love ?
Daily she sinned, and daily also she walked in sackcloth
and ashes for her sins. This time she had been
a little longer in putting on the sackcloth and strewing
the ashes; but all the more complete was her
penitence now. Her embrace was so vehement that
it hurt the gentle Xenia. It was hard to give up the
child to whom she had been mother and sister at
once. And she had been more than that. Since they
had reached the age of reason, Vizia had been Xenia's

calendar and memory, her book of stock references,
and even her conscience. All this she had been until
the day when Xenia had asked of her deputy-conscience,
" Am I to marry Lucyan Bielinski ? " That
day the conscience had refused its answer ; and from
that day it was that Xenia had begun to take another
conscience, and another calendar, and another memory
to help her. And it was because she mistrusted that
other conscience, that in Vizia's heart there arose a
pang of fear just now. Her cousin was to be taken
from her, and he who was to take her away was the
man of whom she had said to-day, " He is a badman."
No wonder if in Vizia's embrace there was
the vehemence of terror.

CHAPTER Xxii.

THE Winning SUIT.

Sie wurde bleicli, der Prester sprach cas "Wort,
Ici aber stand dabei und niusste schweigen."

Geibel.

If any one had told Kazirair this morning that, in less
than twenty-four hours' time he would be standing by,
to see Xenia married to his brother, he would most
certainly have either knocked that person down, or
else laughed at him as a maniac.

And yet it was so. Pale and rigid, with tightened
lips and gloomily-fixed eyes, numb with grief, but yet
alive, yet able to breathe and to stand, Kazimir was
witness of the marriage. He did not rush forward
and tear the bride from the altar — he did not, at the
last fatal moment, either stab or strangle his brother
he did not call out, " I forbid it ! " when he saw
them kneel together on the step — he did not even
start when the priest, in the Polish fashion, asked
of the bride, " Have you ever given your faith to another

man ? " and Xenia's trembling voice answered,
[Neo."

The few guests who had been bidden to this strictly
private wedding saw only that there was a tall, silent,
and sunburnt young man, who looked rather out of
humour, or perhaps only tired with his journey. Two
people only, knew that he was not tired with his
journey, and saw what he was suffering; but neither
of these two was the bride.

And when it was all over and the carriage stood at
the door, Xenia coming round to say good-bye to each
guest, came round to him in his turn. There was a
little flush of excitement on her cheek, and a little
flutter in her manner; but when she came up to
Kazimir, the bright eyes grew deprecating at once.
You are not angry any more ? " she asked softly ;
but before Kazimir had found voice to answer, Lucyan
was beside them.,

The horses will not stand any longer," he said, ashe
drew on his gloves, — then looking at her, he added,
Put on your other hat, ma telle Xenia; this one hides
your curls too much. " Laughingly he touched one
of her chestnut curls, and Kazimir, at sight of that
movement, bit his lip till the blood started. He would
have liked to throw himself between them, so as to
protect Xenia from the insolence of that admiring
gaze, which, it seemed to him, must scorch her. In

Xenia's face the flush had died out the moment that
Lucyan spoke. She raised her eyes to him, meekly,
as a dog might to his master; her will, and her power
of voluntary movement even, seemed gone from her.
Without a word she turned submissively, and went todo
as she had been bidden.

How she must love him ! " thought Kazimir ; for
he had not yet learnt to know the difference between
free love and that which is given by the snake to the
snake-charmer.

The two brothers stood silent side by side, while
both watched Xenia from the room. Then Kazimir
turned to Lucyan. " If you are not kind to her," he
said, with a strange calmness, " I think, Lucyan, I shall
kill you."

I shall take care, then, not to be killed," said
Lucyan, smiling, as he drew out his gloves. " I mean
to give her food and clothes — very pretty clothes too,"
he added with emphasis ; " and what do women want
more than that ? "

Kazimir turned away in silence, but Lucyan detained
him.

Are we to part as enemies or as friends, Kazimir ? "
he asked, and the half-laugh in his voice seemed to
say that he was equally ready to part as one or as the
other, just as his brother preferred. "We shall see
you again soon, shall we not ? "

Xo, you shall not see me again soon," said Kashmir.
"I would rather stay away from home just now."

'well, then, you will shake hands, at least," and
Luoyan, still smiling, held out his hand.

Kazimir stood gazing down at the outstretched
hand with a frown. It was a finely shaped hand,
delicate and white ; and yet Kazimir stared down at
it in a sort of horror. He put out his own, then drew|j
it back and turned abruptly away.

"Excuse me, Lucyan," he said, hoarsely, "but I
think we had better not shake hands. I can forgive
her, but I cannot forgive you."

Just as you like," answered Lucyan, still smiling.
But in the next instant that half-sneering smile faded
from his face. He looked at his brother curiously.
You will not shake hands ? " he said, slowly. " Well,
perhaps you are right."

CHAPTER I.

Underplot.

Nay, I will win my wager better yet ;
And show more sign of her obedience,
Her new-built virtue and obedience."

Shakespeare.

It was Easter-time, and a man said to his wife —
"Have you ordered the haba'^ for the Svneta^?"
The wife, who was studying her complexion in the
glass, instead of giving out raisins, and flour, and eggs
in the store-room, as every Polish housewife is bound
to do at Easter-time, answered with a start, " No, I
was waiting till my cousin came ; I never can remember
the quantities."

I wonder when you will begin to remember the
quantities," answered the husband ; " by the time your
curls are grey, I suppose. How long have we been

^ A species of cake, baked in a high and narrow shape, and
peculiar to Easter-time in Poland. This same word also signifies
grandmother, also old woman generally.

- Feast-day.

married ? Four years this summer, and I do not
believe you know kasza from barley yet."

I shall go and order the tctba at once, since you
wish it." The wife rose with flurried obedience, and
the complexion, no longer reflected in the glass,
deepened to crimson.

Her husband watched her till she had reached the
door, and then called her back. " You know, of course,
exactly how many Ictba you are to order ? "

The wife grew more flurried, and more anxious to
obey. " I forgot to count ; let me see, how many are
we ? One, two, three," she counted nervously on her
fingers, " four, five, six. I think we had six last
Easter."

We need one more than we had last Easter,"
remarked the husband.

The wife was thrown off her balance. She did not
understand why they should require one hah more
than they had last Easter; and she did not dare to
ask her husband directly.

Let me see : " she counted again. " One for you,
one for me, one for your brother, one for my cousin,
one for my aunt, and then the little one for Wandusia.
That is six, is it not ? " she suggested, humbly.

Order seven," said the husband, without changing
his position, while slowly he passed an ivory comb
through his hair, which grew up straight and thick

from his low forehead like a crest, — a serpent's crest,
some one had once remarked.

In spite of her humility, and in spite of her submissiveness,
this seventh baba was simple torture to
the curiosity of the wife. A Ictba was to be baked for
each member of the family — such was the custom —
and the family at this moment numbered exactly
six members. For whom then could this seventh
hah, this mysterious and unexplained haba^ be intended?
She had almost screwed up her courage to
the point of putting the question, when her husband
spoke again. He told her to come back as soon as
she had done with the raisins, and almonds, and eggs,
and flour in the store-room, as he wished her to write
a letter.

More surprise and more curiosity, mingled with a
little fear this time. Her husband very seldom asked
her to write a letter ; and when he did ask her, the
task was performed in fear and trembling ; for not the
smallest slip was allowed to pass uncensured ; each of
her school-girlish mistakes had to meet the full blast
of his withering sarcasm.

The seventh baba, and the letter to be written,
seemed to have some hidden link between them. For
whom was the hah 1 and to whom was she to
write % She speculated so hard upon these questions,
that she poured the raisins into the ground coffee by

mistake, and mixed up the coarse and the fine flour
without ever noticing it.

When she was told to whom she was to write, her
surprise increased tenfold.

But — but' she ventured in reply, " how can I do
that ? Would it not be better if you wrote instead ? "

"It is just because it would not be better, that I
intend you to write," was the answer. *'He would
not come for the sake of my letter, and he will come
for the sake of yours. There is paper, sit down at
once."

Really ? Do you mean it really ? "

Do I ever make jokes ? "

But — but, won't he think it very strange ? "

Let him think it what he likes."

And what am I to call him ? "

His name, of course," said the husband, impatiently.

And how am I to say it ? "

Any way you like — in your own words. Put ina
few pretty phrases about sisterly affection, or any
other sort of affection that you prefer. T give you
leave to be as affectionate as you like — and I shall
not look at your letter ; do you understand ? "

She understood. ' That is to say, she understood
what she was to do ; although she did not in the least
understand why she was to do it.

The letter was written, and the seventh hala was

baked, and so were many other hciba all over the
country. The flour which was weighed out, and
mixed, and put in the oven during these days before
Easter, would have been enough to sand the ground
of a moderate-sized desert; the milk which flowed in
every kitchen, like streams of white blood, might have
furnished a respectable ocean ; the eggs which were
boiled hard in pans and kettles, would handsomely
have sufficed to stone to death half a hundred martyrs.
The new-born lambs that were beginning to leap over
the new-born grass, dotting the green fields with dazzling
spots of white, and biting off the daisy buds, as
they frisked their fluffy tails, found their whiteness
and their innocence rivalled all at once by another
host of lambs that started up about this time, and
flourished their red-and-blue paper flags out of every
village-grocer's window.

But at Tarajow there was not only a grocer but a
confectioner. A confectioner who kept pink and
white cakes and real macaroons, and concerning whom
there existed a tradition that he had once attempted
ices and failed in the speculation. Easter was wont
to be a busy time for him; for many of the small
families of the place ordered their baba here to save
trouble; but this Easter somehow the trade seemed
slack. Many a time did the confectioner, standing
at his window, say to himself, — "Here is a person

coming to order his bahia or placJci^ for Easter-day
; " but nine times out of ten the person trudged
past, and trudged straight up the worn steps of the
apothecary's alongside ; and ten minutes later he
would trudge down again with a bottle of medicine
in his hand. After fuming over a dozen such disappointments,
the confectioner paid an inquisitive visit
to his neighbour.

What is that medicine of which you sell so much,
Jan Wronski ? " he asked, with a suspicion of irritability
in his voice. " It seems to have a better taste
than my baba and placed

It is an astringent," said Jan Wronski, dismally.


The confectioner felt much the wiser.

And is that your last remedy for hydrophobia ? "
he inquired loftily, his irritability turning to sarcasm.
But Jan Wronski was invulnerable to sarcasm. And
just then another person came in by the door with a
bottle to be filled.

How is the baba ? " asked Jan, as he took the
bottle.

The barefooted peasant-girl gave a stupid stare.
•' The baba is dying," she said, in a dull and emotionless
voice. " We have been hanging out her graveclothes
to air these two days. She will be dead before

^ Flat cake, stuffed with dried fruits.

Easter, and the little ones are taking it too. The
matka^ has sold her last coral to the Jew, and she
cannot show her face on the Swieta without them.
At the mention of the dying baba there was no sign
of feeling, or scarcely of understanding ; but at the
mention of the last coral, the homely face quivered
a little.

What is it ? " asked the awed confectioner, dropping
both sarcasm and irritability, and turning rather
pale. " It is not the fever, is it ? "

Yes, it is the fever," said Jan, corking the bottle
tight. " The fever is on us again. There, do you seethe
prohoszcz^ passing? What do you think he is
going to do ? "

Bless the placki and hah for Easter - day,"
answered the confectioner, with a confectioner's
instinct.

So he will," said Jan, " if they be on his way, but
there are other hah that need more blessing just
now ; baba that have not come out of your oven, or
any other ; " and Jan Wronski gave a sort of dismal
laugh at the success of his own ghastly joke, and felt
almost cheerful at sight of the confectioner's depression.

The fever ! " repeated the confectioner to himself ;
being a confectioner he was of a soft and impressionable
nature, and he shank back home, sighing at the

^ Mother. ^ Parish priest.

VOL. 11. M

thought of SO many vainly-baked baba, and of so
many placJci in which the fruit should shrivel, waiting
vainly for buyers. He would sell them half-price,
he desperately resolved ; but why need the fever have
come just at Easter ?

No one knew why the fever should have come,
except that the winter had been a mild winter ; and
that such a winter brings its punishment in Poland.
Just as the lambs were beginning to frisk, and just
as the rough-coated foals began to trot along the
roads by the side of the cart which their mothers
drew ; and just as the blue periwinkles were setting
to weave bridal wreaths for the peasant-girls to wear,
the fever came into the place, borne upon the very
wings of the spring breeze, and tainting the gold of
the April sunshine with its vicious breath.

It took the old people first, those who should by
rights have died in winter, who could only have lived
through till spring by a mere chance. It would come
back for the young people later, no doubt. In spite of
the sunshine, in spite of the early violets, this Easter
will be a sad one for many ; for the sun will shine on
fresh grave-mounds, and the violets will be bound into
wreaths to deck them. Many an empty chair will
speak of the kind old hah who is gone, and many a
little one will have sickened and died before even it
had time to finish its Easter baba.

CHAPTER 11.

OUT OF THE GAME.

I pray thee, mark me,— that a brother should
Be so perfidious."

—The Tempest.

On Easter-eve, towards dusk, a hussar on horseback
was approaching Tarajow from the west. The country
on this side bore a character quite distinct from
the richly wooded hills which lay to the east. Here,
from the very gates of the town, there stretched a wide
expanse, dreary in its flatness ; a country of stunted
grass on which grew stunted willows. There was a
deserted, starved, and melancholy look about this tract
of land ; the very cows, driven here to graze, looked
thin and sad ; and the very daisies and buttercups,
called out by the April sunshine, appeared to be dwarfs
of.their race, staring upwards at the sky with pinched
faces and weak eyes.

Cutting this dreary stretch almost in two, a sluggish
stream lazily dragged its waters along. Dull and slow

and slimy was that stream ; green with floating duckweed,
black with stagnant pools. For years it had
licked its banks with sullen tongue till the willow-roots
hung bare, and the earth crumbled gently downwards.
The stream had no life, save when one of the
thin and sad cows came to the edge to drink; or when
a frog leaped from the bank to the water with a hop
and a splash ; or when a swallow on a gnat-hunt
skimmed the sleepy surface.

There was no highroad on this tract — nothing buta
footpath led through it ; the stream, running straight
across the line of the path, was bridged by a rickety
plank with a rickety handrail at one side.

Along this path the hussar was riding this Easter-eve.
He rode slowly, at a foot-pace, the reins hanging
loose on the horse's neck — so loose that the beast stole
many a bite at the willow-bushes in passing. Close
at the horse's heels a yellow setter trotted contentedly
along. The rider was alone with his horse and his
dog, for the meagre cows had been driven home from
their meagre pasture more than an hour ago. He
looked neither to the right nor the left, at the stunted
willows nor at the dwindling daisies ; his eyes were
fixed before him in a sort of dreamy abstraction

It did not seem as if he were in a hurry to reach
Tarajow ; and neither was he in a hurry, although he
was wending his way there in the mere vague hope of

finding it less dreary than the wretched village station
in which he was quartered. An Easter-eve, when
every one is cheerful, and comrades are starting for
visits home, is apt to make a lonely man feel more
lonely ; and this man was lonely, with no home where
he could go for Easter. The very church-bells, ringing
out their Easter peals, seemed to be telling him more
distinctly that he was a lonely man. So deep was his
abstraction, that he had reached the stream, and did
not notice it until the horse stood still.

He gathered up his reins and looked around him.
The plank, some paces to the right, was too narrow to
cross with safety. He knew that, for he had passed
here often before, and touching his horse with the
spur, he prepared to cross by his usual ford. The
dusk was falling fast, but he could distinctly see that
there was a figure on the bridge — a woman, with her
back towards him and her head bent downwards as
she leant over the rail, looking straight at the water.
Apparently the woman was as deeply abstracted as
the rider had been a minute ago, for the horse's footfall
on the grass was not enough to rouse her.

This ford was so rarely disturbed that the green
water-weed had ample time to spread itself luxuriantly
in the intervals. The spot was thick with weed just
now, and it was with a fearful and hesitating step that
the horse lifted its feet through the slippery slime

which wound itself and clung about its hoofs. The
centre of the stream was reached, and the hateful green
stuff had risen to its knees, when the horse all at once
gave a start and a plunge, sending a rain of green
water over its rider's head. There had been a splash
hard by, alongside of the bridge — a much louder splash
than the hopping of a frog could make ; it sounded
like the fall of a heavy stone. Whatever it was, it
was enough to frighten a horse in the dusk ; and the
scared animal snorted and bounded till the green water
splashed not only over the rider, but also over the
woman on the bridge. She turned at the noise, and
for the first time caught sight of these figures on the
scene.

I beg your pardon," said the rider, as he spurred
his horse to the opposite bank and reached it. " I
have frightened you, I am afraid, and splashed you as
well. Down, Trappisto ! " as the yellow dog, stopping
half-way in the water, threw up its head and gave vent
to a few piercing and inimical barks.

That's all wrong," said the woman on the bridge ;
I frightened your horse."

It was a frog, I think, that frightened him or a
falling stone."

That's all wrong again ; the stone did not fall ; it
was thrown, and I threw it."

"You were throwing it at a frog, I suppose," suggested

the rider, who could think of no other probable
motive which could induce a young woman to stand
on a lonely bridge at nightfall and throw stones into
the water.

At a frog ? Not a bit of it ; I was throwing it in
because I like the good thumping splash it makes.
I always throw stones whenever I come here."

The rider, as he drew up his horse beside the bridge,
began to feel amused.

"You like the sound of a splash?"

I like the sound of anything that makes a noise.
I am desperately fond of noises. Aren't you ? "

"I am afraid that I am not desperately fond of
them," said the rider, feeling more amused. " I have
plenty of them in my profession."

"Ah yes, you are an officer." She looked at him
more narrowly through the dusk ; and he, at the same
time, looked more narrowly at her. What she saw
was a handsome young hussar captain — for in spite of
the dusk she could catch the three stars glimmering
on his collar ; and what he saw was a young woman,
short and plump, with fine black eyes, wavy black
hair, and a brilliant, if somewhat coarse, complexion.
She leant at the end of the bridge, with her back
against the rail now, and she appeared quite open to
further conversation. He had led a silent and a solitary
life lately, and even this adventure was a little

change. Moreover, there was something about this
lonely spot which seemed to create a sympathy between
these two lonely people. Tor she seemed to be
as lonely as he was ; why else should she have come
out here while the Tarajow bells were ringing this
festive peal, and the church was crowded for the service
of the ZmartivTjcliwstanie ? -^

So you find it more amusing to throw stones into
the water than to go to church with the rest of the
Tarajow people ? " remarked the hussar, as he reined
in his impatient horse. The yellow dog — more green
than yellow by this time — seeing that his master was
bent upon this foolish and unnecessary halt, sat down
on the bank in shivering resignation, and faintly
wagged his tail, as much as to say that he was able
to resign himself with a cheerful spirit, if duty so
demanded it.

And you find it more amusing to ride about ? " said
the young woman, who all this time was gazing at
him a great deal more narrowly than he was gazing:
at her. " Is this the way you intend to spend your
Easter''

I have nowhere to go to at Easter," answered the
rider, with a smile, and a sigh on the back of the smile.

You have a brother you might go to," said the
young woman.

^ Resurrection.

The rider started and flushed. " How do you know
that ? " he asked quickly, perhaps a trifle proudly.

"Because I know who you are," was the answer.
You are Kazimir Bielinski."

That is wonderfully well guessed. I am Kazimir
Bielinski."

It is not guessed ; I recognised you."

Have you ever seen me before ? "

Never ; but I know you by a likeness ; " and to
herself the woman added, " he is stronger and taller.
but it is the same face."

The hussar felt more amused than ever. " What
else do you know about me ? " he inquired.

I know that you got a letter this morning."

There is a wrong guess ; I have not had a letter fora
week."

Well, you will get it to-night then ; I forgot that
the post takes three days for three miles."

How do you happen to know this ? "

Because I posted the letter."

You did ! " The rider looked sorely puzzled.
Most gladly would he have put to the black-haired
woman the question, " Who the dickens are you ? "
only that it would have seemed to him rude. " I beg
your pardon ; but is the letter from you, then ? "

'' No ; I don't know from whom the letter is ; but
it comes from Wowasulka."

Again the rider flushed, and bit his lip this time,
and the young woman gazed at him very curiously
through the dusk.

I don't know of any one at Wowasulka who could
write to me," reflected the rider, — "except Marcin."
He did not notice that he had said it aloud until the
woman's answer startled him.

No, the letter is not from Marcin," she said,
abruptly.

Certainly she was a very strange young woman, he
considered; and before he had recovered from this
fresh shock of surprise, the young woman proved herself
to be stranger still.

"You have been here in garrison all winter," she
observed, picking up a large stone from the bank and
flinging it right into the centre of a pool.

The regiment came to Poland last autumn," said
Kazimir, more and more puzzled by her manner.

And you have kept very clear of Wowasulka, have
you not ? " She flung a handful of gravel after the
stone.

Was he to take offence, or was he to go on being
amused at this strange frankness ? Kazimir asked
himself. He decided on the latter course.

"I have not been there lately," he answered,
evasively. She shrugged her shoulders and laughed.

You're not particularly fond of your brother, I

fancy ? neither am I, for the matter of that — of one of
your brothers, that is to say, — I can't bear men who
move so quietly. Well, I should advise you to go
home and read your letter. I daresay there's something
about it in there."

And you are sure it is a real letter, — not a myth
or a hoax ? "

It may be a hoax ; but I know it isn't a myth.
They gave it me to post when I was up at the house
yesterday with some medicine."

There is nobody ill there ? " asked Kazimir, quickly.

The little girl is ill, — cutting her teeth, I heard."

And you do not know from whom the letter is ? "

"Not I; go home and see for yourself; the letter
must be there by this time, unless the postman is lying
drunk in a ditch, which he very often is, for two days
at a time. That is your way, isn't it .? " and she pointed
back across the water. "Do you often ride this path ? "

Yes ; it is my short cut to Tarajow."

Good-night, then ; perhaps I shall see you again, —
either here or elsewhere. You were very civil to me,
you know, about the splashing and the dog ; " and the
young woman looked at him approvingly. " You are
just the sort of man of whom one would not mind
asking a favour, if one needed it."

Thank you," said Kazimir, laughing. " Goodnight."
And he turned his horse and rode at the ford

again, for he had no more thought of going to Tarajow
that evening.

As he reached the further bank, he heard the woman's
voice calling after him —

You are wondering who I am, are you not ? I am
the apothecary's daughter. Good-night."

The apothecary's daughter ! A far-off recollection
grew alive in Kazimir's mind. He knew that there
had been an apothecary's daughter, a pretty apothecary's
daughter, or one at least whom Marcin had found
pretty four years ago ; and this apothecary's daughter
certainly was pretty, even though she had lost her
first short-lived freshness. But Kazimir did not
speculate further on the subject just now, for his
thoughts were all bent on the letter which awaited
him at home. He started home at a much brisker
pace than that at which he had come here, and, trotting
along the pathway between the willows, he could
still hear behind him the continued splash, splash, of
the stones in the water; for the apothecary's daughter
had apparently resumed her occupation on the bridge.

Kazimir's depression and loneliness had given way
all at once to an excited curiosity. It was not far
from four years now that he had left home last, and
it was three years since any communication had passed
between him and his brother. Not long after Lu can's
marriage, when the brothers had parted in coolness.

there arose a serious quarrel between them, the
effects of which had lasted till now. The breach
itself had come about in the following manner.
Month after month slipped by since the wedding,
and Kazimir heard no word further of the twelve
thousand florins, which was to be the price of that
paper signed at Verona on the same day as the Villa-franca
peace. At first this silence left him indifferent
; but by degrees it began to surprise and alarm
him. Attacked by the exhortations of the Auditor,
he realised at last that those twelve thousand florins
were the sum of his possessions. Urged on by the
same indefatigable mentor, he wrote to Lucyan, and
received a politely evasive assurance of payment to
follow. The payment did not follow. Kazimir waited
another month, and then, under the Auditor's spur,
wrote again more urgently. After the lapse of a few
weeks, he received one thousand florins m payment.
Some time after that the one thousand florins were
followed by a small riding-horse. "The season has
been such an unfruitful one," wrote Lucyan, that
ready money is out of the question, so I send you
your second thousand in the shape of a horse."

It was a very pretty little horse, with a flowing
mane and a long tail, but it was a great deal too small
for Kazimir to ride, and he sold it next day for five
hundred florins — the highest price he could get — to a

lady who was setting up a pony-carriage. This horse,
and more particularly its stature, finally brought
matters to a crisis. Under the good-humoured taunts
of his comrades, and foremost of Lohonzy, who made
a point of inquiring every day whether he expected
any more ponies from Poland, Kazimir awoke to the
fact that his younger brother was making a fool of
him. His blood was up from that moment, and
instead of a letter of thanks for the pretty horse,
Lucyan received a somewhat violent epistle, in which
Kazimir demanded point-blank to know what his
brother's intentions were. " I might insist if I
chose," he wrote, remembering that the transaction
between them was to be, after all, but a matter of
form, — "I might insist upon Wowasulka being sold
and my portion being paid out, but I do not wish
to push you to extremes." The violent epistle was
answered by a cool one, in which, however, it appeared
that the matter of form had not been a matter
of form at all, but a matter of great reality ; that
Wowasulka belonged in fact, as well as on paper, to
Lucyan, and to him alone. There followed a stormy
correspondence, in which Kazimir found himself
foiled and baffled at every point, and the upshot of
which was that Lucyan offered his brother five
thousand florins in place of twelve, declaring his
utter inability to raise more off the estate. " This is

my last word," said the letter, " and all I can do for
you. If you are not satisfied, your way is clear : goto
law. There is the paper of our agreement to put
up against me, so the chances are good on your side.
In about four or five years' time you might hope fora
decision, and perhaps you may then gain five hundred
florins more than I now offer you. I daresay
that you will be glad of this opportunity of being so
speedily revenged upon me, and upon /ler."

Kazimir was pale with rage when he folded up this
letter ; and the Auditor, seeing the strange whiteness
of his face, asked him what was wrong. Kazimir told
him of his brother's proposal, and the Auditor chuckled
and cheerfully rubbed his hands. " A fine case," he
murmured — " a very pretty case indeed. Don't you
think so ? "

I do not think so," said Kazimir.

Why, of what are you afraid ? He cannot deny
the paper. Just leave the matter to me, and see if
you don't get your rights."

I do not intend to try," said Kazimir, tearing his
brother's letter to shreds.

The Auditor very nearly rolled off his chair in
surprise. "You are joking, Bielinski, are you not?
Be so kind as to say that you are joking. Let me
hear you say that again. What is it you do not intend
to do ? "

I am not going to law," said Kazimir, doggedly.

The Auditor stormed, remonstrated, preached and
threatened, all in vain ; and finally left the room ina
passion, loudly declaring that he washed his hands of
this young scatterbrain now and for ever. And Kashmir,
when the door had slammed shut and he was
alone, threw himself on a seat, covering his face with
his hands. Family pride was very strong in him, but
family pride alone might not have sufficed to keep
him to his determination. It was the last word of
Lucyan's letter that had clenched it. The unbearable
thought of being at enmity with her, of appearing
perhaps to be striving for revenge on Iter.

He understood now, and saw distinctly that his
brother had but used him as an instrument, and that
he was a fool for his confidence and his trust ; but
just this thought of wounded pride made him seal his
lips on the subject henceforth. If he had been a fool,
he would at least bear the effects of his folly in
silence. It is a great mistake to pitch one's standard
of human nature too high — people disappoint you, by
falling short of it ; whereas if you can pitch it low,
they surprise you by surpassing it. We have no right
to expect that all men should be honourable, and all
women true. Kazimir was only deservedly punished
for his folly. Never from that day forth had he
touched upon the subject, even to the Auditor; but

neither from that day had the Auditor been the same
to him as in the former time.

The breach between the brothers had been complete
thenceforward, and all communication ceased. Not
many months after the wedding, Bogumil had succumbed
to a second stroke of paralysis : of this Kazimir
had been informed, and he had heard as well of the birth
of a child. Marcin, he knew, had continued to live
at Wowasulka ; boarded, clothed, and fed by Lucyan,
dio never gave him any trouble about account-books
or reckonings, but kindly kept all his money for him.
Never, perhaps, had an arrangement existed which
was so entirely satisfactory to both parties concerned.
It was only in the past autumn that Kazimir found
himself with his regiment transferred to Poland. He
was within a few miles of home now ; but he made
no attempt at renewing broken ties. He heard his
brother mentioned frequently, and mentioned always
with respect, and a certain sort of admiration. " Are
you the brother of Bielinski of Wowasulka ? " he had
frequently been asked. " A lucky man Bielinski ;
quite at the top of the tree ; has just been chosen
Marszalek ; immense position, immense influence ;
enlarged his estate, improved it wonderfully ; gives
splendid entertainments ; has a beautiful wife ; the
first man in the country now ! " All this Kazimir
heard, and wondered to hear. Once only in the course

VOL. II. N

of the last winter, when galloping down a snowy road,
had he met his brother face to face. A sledge had
passed him close, and in the occupant, though muffled
in fur to his ears, he had recognised Lucyan. Their
eyes had met for a moment, but both were going fast ;
and that look of mutual recognition had been no more
than a flash. Once again after that, Kazimir had
caught sight of the sledge, but at a distance. He
could see that there was a lady in it, for he caught
the flutter of a veil ; and this time he had turned his
horse and ridden straight away in an opposite direction,
as though he were riding for his very life. He
had become almost used to the thought that the breach
was to be a lifelong breach ; and yet, at the news that
a letter from Wowasulka lay waiting for him at home,
curiosity and excitement came to life at once.

By good luck the postman had not chosen this day
for going to sleep in a ditch, so the letter really was
waiting for him at home. It was in a writing quite
unknown to him ; a weak and meaningless writing,
it struck him in the first moment — but in the next,
he thought differently. The writing, from weak and
meaningless, became all at once graceful and feminine :
for he had opened the envelope, and the name signed
at the bottom of the page was " Xenia." He trembled
so at that sight that the paper shook in his hands.
Wild possibilities rose up and tortured him, for lie

could not imagine the reason of this letter. Perhaps
she wanted his help. Lucyan had ill-used her, and
she had fled from him. Kazimir's imagination was on
fire in a moment, and burning so hotly, that his calmness
was scarcely equal to the task of reading the
page. Lucyan had not ill-used her, it seemed, nor
had she fled from him. Kazimir had pitched his
expectations a great deal too high. She began by
calling him " My dear brother Kazimir," and she went
on to say that he would, no doubt, be very much surprised
to hear from her, but that she hoped, really
hoped very much, that it would not be a disagreeable
surprise. " We heard several months ago," the pretty
smooth writing ran on, " that you had come to Poland,
and we have been expecting every day that you would
come and see us. It was very unkind of you to stay
away, and I hope you will never do it again. You
might have guessed that I wanted to see you after
such a long time, and I have never yet shown you my
little Wandusia. Every one says she will be just like
me ; I wonder whether you will find it so. I am
afraid you have quite forgotten us all, and never care
to think of me at all. If you want to show that it is
not true, you must come and spend the Easter-week
with us : I know that Lucyan is very anxious for it. I
think that I shall bake a fresh hdba for you, all by
myself, to reward you if you come. Lucyan says," —

but the last two words were stroked out, and a new
line begun.

Of course, if you are really not able to forget the
quarrel with Lucyan, it would be better if you did not
come ; but it would make me very unhappy to think
that I should be the cause. I am quite sure that you
will never say a word about the disagreeable things
that are past, but that you will come, as I ask you; to
make our quiet family Easter more cheerful."

Angel of goodness ! " cried Kazimir, as he read ;
she cannot bear to see the breach between us ; she
cannot rest without trying to turn enemies into
friends."

He was deeply and strangely moved by this letter.
His own emotion filled him with wondering surprise.
It was four years nearly since he had seen her last,
and he had struggled for calmness until he thought he
had gained it. After the first agony of such a disappointment,
there follows a period of dull suffering,
less keen but more dreary ; and on that again, there
follows calmness, or what passes for calmness as long
as it meets with no shock. Even a very small stone
is enough to break the calmness of a pool of water.
Xenia's letter might be a very small stone indeed, but
it had ruffled the quiet of Kazimir's mind. It entangled
him in doubts and questions. Should he go ?
Should he stay? Should he grasp the olive-branch

held out to him, or should he thrust it back ? What !
and with the olive-branch thrust back the delicate
hand which held it out ? Surely such a course would
be brutal. However little he might wish for Lucyan's
friendship, it would be wrong to deprive that angel of
the reward of the good work which she had set herself
to do.

Perhaps conscience whispered faintly, " Do not go ;
it is not safe ; " but pride cried out louder, " Everything
is safe to a strong man. What is there to fear ? Because
you loved her four years ago, you need not love
her now." And there were many other things which
stood up on this second side. The dreariness of the
long winter, the loneliness of half an hour ago, the
brightness of the prospect offered him, the Easter-bells
still ringing in his ears ; they all spoke for the second
side, — and Kazimir decided to go.

Chapter III.

LUCYAN PLAYS HEARTS.

Time Danaos, et dona fermented "

—Virgil.

When Kaziinir started for Wowasulka on Easter-monday
morning, his sensations were varied and contradictory.
He felt a little uneasy, more curious, and
very generous. The nearer he drew to Wowasulka,
the more did his own conduct strike him as truly
magnanimous. He was going freely to forgive the
brother who had so gravely offended him, and this
merely because a pretty little childish note had asked
him to do so. He hoped only that the quiet family
Easter was not going to be combined with a solemn
family reconciliation ; he trusted that he was not going
to be formally asked for his forgiveness, which he
greatly preferred to give tacitly. The meeting would
be a painful one to Xenia. For her sake he wished it
over. Would she colour as vividly as she had coloured

that day on the eve of the wedding, when he had come
upon the group in the forest ? What would she be
doing when first he should see her to-day ? Perhaps
he would not see her ; for Kazimir just now remembered
the words of the apothecary's daughter, and fell
to drawing pictures in his mind of Xenia, as a pale
and anxious mother, keeping watch by the side of her
sick child.

He was on Wowasulka ground by this time, and
curiously he looked about him. Surprise began to
grow up in him at what he saw. Every spot that
brought recognition brought also a feeling of strangeness.
There were new roads where there had been
none before ; there were well-kept roads where there
had been bad ones. What had been small and pinched
looked large and well-to-do. These signs of an improved
fortune showed more distinctly with every step towards
the house. They culminated in Lucyan's garden ; for
here there burst upon Kazimir's sight a large and
brilliant conservatory, flashing back the April sunshine
from each of its polished panes, while the modest
flower-beds of four years ago were replaced by elaborately
planned borders, bright with purple and yellow
crocuses ; the stony and once bare slope, which swelled
towards the forest, was now clothed with flowering
shrubs, well tended, and massed with a care which
betrayed a loving and masterly eye ; while every rock,

tall or flat, sharp or round, wore a flowing and luxurious
robe of green ivy.

In spite of the consciousness of his magnanimity,
there fell upon Kazimir a strange trepidation as he
dismounted at the door. Before he had left the saddle,
a hum of voices struck on his ear ; men's voices and
women's voices, and laughter mingled with the clink
of glasses and plates. The quiet family Easter did not
appear to him as so very quiet after all.

The dining-room door stood open, and Kazimir found
his way in unannounced. There were over fifteen people
in the room, most of them gentlemen in dress-coats
: there was a long table, literally loaded with
dishes, groaning under the weight of hams and eggs, of
cold sucking pigs and cakes; and round this table,
some sitting, some standing, the company were variously
grouped. Almost every gentleman was either
raising a full liqueur-glass to his lips, or putting down
an empty liqueur-glass on the table, or clinking his
liqueur-glass against another liqueur-glass held towards
him. Those who did not hold a glass, held an egg, — for
Polish etiquette demands that, at the Easter Sviezone,
every gentleman should drink a glass of wodki with
the host, and crack a hard-boiled egg with the hostess.
And this, at the present moment, every one was engaged
in doing, amid much laughter and gaiety.

Kazimir saw none of this at all, or saw it but vaguely.

All that was distinct to him was Xenia, standing at the
further end of the room with a red egg in her hand,
which she laughingly held towards the gentleman
before her. Her rich blue-silk dress trailed to the
ground, heavy with lace and elaborate trimmings ;
gold bracelets flashed upon her wrists, and through
her chestnut hair a blue ribbon wound in and out, to
flutter at her neck.

This picture only did Kazimir see, as he paused in
the doorway, not noticing even the hush in the hum
of voices which greeted his appearance. But Xenia
noticed the hush, and, turning her head, saw Kazimir.
Instantly her raised hand was dropped, leaving the egg
unchecked ; and with a smile breaking over her face —
but not the vivid blush of four years ago — she came
towards him down the room.

You have come, after all ; I am so glad ! How
good of you ! Then you got my letter. Lucyan said
you would not come ; but I knew you would." All
this time the smile of welcome was on her face, and
her hand was held towards him, waiting to be shaken,
or perhaps kissed, according to Polish custom ; though
in his first bewilderment he did not see it. She raised
the other again, laughing, — the one which held the
egg. " You must crack an egg with me, you know ;
that is the first thing. We must crack an egg before
we say another word. I have never cracked an egg

with you ; for you went away before Easter that time,
you know."

The egg was cracked ; and Kazimir, still rather
dazed, found himself, in another minute, shaking hands
with everybody around — with his brother Lucyan
amongst others — being introduced to strange people,
and reintroduced to former acquaintances.

I do not know whether you remember my brother
Kazimir," said Lucyan, leading him up to an elderly
lady, whose gold-rimmed eye-glass gave him somehow
a chill shock of recognition. That gold-rimmed eyeglass
would always seem to be mixed up with the
most miserable moment of his life.

I remember your brother Kazimir very well,"
answered a cracked voice, at the sound of which a
second chill shock touched Kazimir. " I remember
him most remarkably well ; " and the owner of the
cracked voice and the gold-rimmed eye-glass gave a
visible shudder, as if at some alarming recollection.
I saw him at the time of "

He has come back," said Lucyan, emphatically ;
as emphatically as though the words were to convey
a warning to the elderly lady. The elderly lady apparently
understood the warning. With a visible
effort she stretched out three frail fingers towards the
returned brother, and with a visible effort she conjured
up an hysterical smile to her face.

Ah, well, SO you have returned ; it must be a
great comfort to your excellent brother."

I don't know," said Kazimir, somewhat staggered.
Ever since his entrance the conversation and the
laughter had been hushed ; and at the moment when
the elderly lady addressed him, a silence had fallen on
the guests. Every liqueur-glass and every egg was
arrested in the air ; every fan stopped its rattling, and
every face was turned towards this side of the room,
as though to watch some interesting scene. The
silence, the poised liqueur-glasses, the faces turned
this way, were alike incomprehensible to Kazimir.
What this interesting scene was, he alone of all the
guests was unable to imagine ; but with a vague and
uneasy suspicion, he began to guess that he was the
chief actor in that scene. Why was he made thus into
the central point of the entertainment? Why had
every one pressed his hand so warmly, and looked at
him so benevolently ? He had seen tears of emotion
in a grey-haired gentleman's eyes ; what could they
mean?

A great comfort," resumed the elderly lady, amidst
the impressive silence, — " a very great comfort to your
excellent brother, as well as to all your relations."

I am sure I hope so," said Kazimir, laughing, in
hope of throwing off this undefined solemnity which
oppressed him ; and he looked around him for a response

to his laughter — but no response came. He
met the same looks as before, — as benevolent as before,
and as kind, — but to his laughter there was no answer
except gravity. The occasion was evidently considered
to be far above laughter. He looked from one face to
the other, and his own laugh died out ; he looked at
the grey-haired gentleman last, and saw that the tears
of emotion which he had seen shining were prepared
to fall in a minute more.

Four years is a long time, — a very long time indeed,"
the cracked voice was saying ; and the tone
seemed to convey a sort of reproach to him for the
length of time, — a rebuke for the scale on which it
had pleased him to model these four years.

Yes ; the regiment has had plenty of changes since
then," said Kazimir, not daring to laugh again, or even
to smile, but trying nevertheless to talk lightly. " Italy
first, then Vienna, then "

The elderly lady moved up her two hands quickly,
and shut both her eyes. " We need not talk of that''
she exclaimed, with a nervous shudder, as though the
subject were too painful to be touched upon. " We are
not pressing to know where you have been, or what
you may have been doing, these four years. Let bygones
be bygones."

"By all means," broke in Lucyan's voice at this

juncture ; " but we must hear of Kazimir's adventures
another time."

The elderly lady dropped her hands, opened her
eyes, and shook her head at the speaker, with a sort
of tender reproof. "Don't let your generosity runaway
with you," that look and that shake of the head
seemed to say; "it is better that he should see things
as they are."

Once more the cracked voice was raised : " Yes ; ah,
well, let bygones be bygones ; many a fresh leaf is
turned over at Easter-time. We have every — hope ; "
she hesitated before the word " hope," as though the
expression were almost too strong to be candidly used ;
every — hope for favourable changes, now that you
have come back." The " favourable changes " were
unmistakably the climax of the speech. Again the
three frail fingers were stretched towards him, and
again the hysterical smile was conjured ujd to beam
upon him.

But Kazimir did not take the fingers this time, for
the truth had flashed upon him. He had wondered
what was the part he was supposed to be playing,
now he wondered no longer : he saw that his part was
that of the prodigal son. The benevolence and the
solemn hush, and even the emotional tears were fully
explained now. They meant it well by him; for

though he had kept away so long from the family
roof, and though his past was too painful a subject to
be publicly mentioned, and though he had wallowed
in the mire of vice for four years past, they had all
opened their arms to receive him now. They had not
indeed put a gold ring on his finger; they had not
offered him gold in 'that or in any other shape ; but
they had bidden the guests, and decked their table, and
killed the fatted calf, to take from his mouth the taste
of the unclean husks ; for it was Easter-time, and the
sun was shining brightly outside, and mankind was
at peace, one with the other; and he was to be forgiven
for everything that he had not done.

The first wild impulse which possessed him was to
spoil the end of the parable by turning where he
stood, and declaring into the very faces of the guests
that he would have none of the fatted calf, for that he
did not repent his ways. He who had come here to
forgive, was he to stand thus meekly and be forgiven ?

It was not to be borne ; the wild fierce words of
denial were all but bursting from his lips, when a soft
hand was laid on his arm, and a soft voice whispered :

You are tired with your ride, are you not ? And
you have eaten nothing; will you have veal-pie or
ham?"

Fortunately for Kazimir's peace of mind, he had not
perceived the sign made by the husband, and obeyed

by the wife. In that touch on his arm, and that
whisper beside him, he saw nothing but a spontaneous
impulse of most charming hospitality ; it fell like oil
upon the waters of his wrath.

Ham, if you please," came quite meekly from his
lips, instead of the fierce words of denial which had
been burning there in the same minute ; and the
tamed prodigal allowed himself to be led to the table
to a further end where there were no <:ruests lingering
— and looked on submissively while his hostess
helped him to a great deal more ham than he could
possibly eat.

The worst moment for Kazimir was now over ; but
the feeling of the prodigal left its shadow upon him.
He was always finding himself in the best place — by
Xenia, of course — and always getting helped to the
best bits, — at neither of which favours it was possible
to take offence. Everything which he ate, whether it
was sweet, sour, or peppered, tasted to him like fatted
calf; and every guest wore the exact expression which
he had always imagined to have been worn by the
friends of the prodigal's father, who were called together
to rejoice with him, because he that was lost
had been found again. Hour after hour of the forenoon
passed ; the first guests left to make another
station in their Easter-pilgrimage round the country,
and new guests arrived, fresh from their last station.

And each guest, whether arriving or departing, whether
young or old, whether man or woman, seemed equally
determined to forgive him for some vague, unexplained,
undefined, yet grievous harm that he had done ; and
all looked at Kazimir with the same eyes, and seemed
only to stop short of patting him on the back, and
saying heartily, " Cheer up ! You are to have another
chance of regeneration ! " Even the sucking-pigs on
the table, with the juicy lemon between their teeth,
seemed to grin at him forgivingly each time he passed :
the baba, decking the board like miniature haystacks,
squinted and winked at him with well-meaning
raisin-eyes, as much as to say, that though they
knew all about it, they did not mean to rake up old
wrongs ; for that it was Easter-time, and many a new
leaf was to be turned over now.

Fifty times did Kazimir repent having come hereto
walk blindfolded into this benevolent trap, and
fifty times was he mollified by a word or a look of his
hostess into repenting his repentance. If he did not
stand up and deny it all, so he told himself, it was
only for the sake of not annoying Xenia. It did not
occur to him, that even were he to do so, he would not
be believed ; that he would be regarded simply as an
unrepentant prodigal instead of a repentant one. For
he forgot that his brother was the rich Bielinski and
he the poor Bielinski ; that Lucyan was the chief

personage and Marszalek of the country, while he was
a penniless hussar, and that therefore his brother
would be right and he would be wrong. No reason
as logical as this induced Kazimir to hold his tongue ;
he was silent only from the fear of seeing a cloud rise
to that pearly-white brow. What was irritating in the
others was soothing in her. There was no exception
to be made to her manner as hostess. That shrinking
shyness, those childishly appealing looks which
Kazimir had known so well, were gone now, and
replaced by a greater assurance of mien, by a fuller
gaze and a more conscious gait. The quick blushes of
seventeen, and that bashful lowering of long lashes,
were gone too. Perhaps, had Kazimir been calmer, he
might have missed them ; but he was far from calm.
He had come here in some curiosity, wondering
whether he were cured or not ; and the first glance
of her eyes gave him his answer ; the first touch of
her hand told him that he was not cured — that four
years had done nothing to heal the old wound.

She had changed, it is true ; not palpably, nor distinctly,
nor in any way which could be put into words,
and yet she had changed ; but it was a change
which only made her more beautiful. She had
matured and developed ; what had been promise at
seventeen, was fulfilment at twenty - one ; what had
then been in bud was now in flower. And who

VOL. II.

does not prefer the flower to the bud, even though
the dew may be a little brushed from off the perfect
blossom ?

Kazimir had never seen her so beautiful, nor had
he ever seen her beauty set off to such advantage by
dress. The rich silk, and creamy laces, and twinkling
gold of her ornaments, gave to the young matron a
brilliant frame which the young girl had never had.

How it came about that Kazimir found himself
constantly at Xenia's side, he took no trouble to
analyse. He saw none of the manoeuvres, and signals,
and glances by which Lucyan, from the other
end of the room, directed his wife's movements. It
was from Xenia that he got all the news of the family.
Where was Marcin ? Oh, Marcin always kept out of
the way of visitors ; he was in his room, no doubt,
possibly in his bed ; he seldom took the trouble of
dressing himself completely, for he had got so strange
and limp and dreamy these last years. And aunt
Kobertine ? Yes, aunt Kobertine lived with them
also ; but she always went away for a few days at
Christmas and Easter-time, so as to avoid any family
gathering; she found the place too cheerful at such
times, " and she finds that I am not grave enough,"
added Xenia, simply; " she says that I am too light for
her taste. But I shall be so glad when she comes
back, for she takes charge of the keys and everything."

"And Vizia, what had become of her? Had she
married ? " inquired Kizimir.

Married ? Oh no," said Xenia, with a little laugh ;
Vizia says she will never marry, and I suppose she
will not ; she is not at all pretty, you know. Everybody
wishes so that she would not go on as she is doing."

Has she been doing anything very dreadful ? "
asked Kazimir, wondering whether the prodigal son
had found a fellow-sinner in a prodigal daughter.

Well, it is rather dreadful," said Xenia, seriously.
She insists on living quite alone at Lodniki, and
managing the farm by herself. She says she does
not need any protection ; but she is not so old after
all, just twenty-six now, and everybody was so dreadfully
shocked. We wanted her to sell the place and
live with us, but she would not. Lucyan says that
he cannot bear strong-minded women ; I don't think
any men do, do they ? "

Kazimir answered that of course no man ever did,
and inquired, for civility's sake, how Yizia prospered
with her farm.

Not very well, I think," said Xenia. " I don't understand
about that sort of thing at all, but Lucyan says
she is so obstinate, and will not take any advice, and
my uncle left a great many debts to the Jews. Lucyan
says that if it had not been for the railway she would
have been forced to sell Lodniki."

Kazimir had heard the railway much spoken of this
winter ; its speedy construction was a common topic
of conversation now. " So the railway is really going
to be built, is it ? What a pity your poor uncle did
not live to see his dream fulfilled ! "

Yes ; and they have put up white posts in a row
to show where they mean to build it ; but I think they
have not quite made up their minds yet. It is meant
to go all through the Lodniki ground ; and Vizia looks
at the white posts every morning from the window,
and calls them her white posts, for she says they will
make her rich. 1 told her that I could not bear
having the noise and the smoke so close to the house.
I am sure it would give me a headache; but Vizia is
so strong, she never has headaches."

And is she spending Easter all alone at Lodniki ? "

Xenia looked at him in surprise. " Oh no, she is
here in the house ; she came over as soon as she heard
that Wandusia was ill, — did not I tell you that she
was cutting her teeth ? Vizia is taking care of her
now."

To be shire." The sick child had entirely vanished
from Kazimir's memory, and recurred to it only at
this moment ; and now only he noticed that the
pictures he had drawn of the pale and anxious
mother had been replaced by a brighter and certainly
more beautiful reality.

"Lucyan won't let me sit beside Wandusia for
long," went on Xenia, with a charming pout; "he
says it makes me look pale. My nerves are rather
weak, you know. I could not bear to look on when
they lanced Wandusia's gums — I ran away out of the
room, and stopped my ears ; but Vizia has such strong
nerves, she stayed in the room and she held Wandusia
the whole time, although the poor darling screamed
fearfully. I don't understand how one can do that
when one has any feeling. Yizia never had much
feeling in that way. I remember long ago, when we
were children, we once found a nest full of young
birds on the ground, which had been blown off a high
tree in the storm. One of them was quite dead, and
the others were all bleeding and crushed. Vizia
wanted to have them all killed at once — she said it
would put them out of pain ; but I cried and begged
so hard that I was allowed to take them home."

And did they get quite tame ? " asked Kazimir.

Well," said Xenia, candidly, " they had not time,
you know, because I forgot to feed them, and they
died a few days after. But I cried dreadfully about
it," she added in apology ; and certainly those tears
must have quite made up to the little birds for their
untimely end.

While Xenia conversed with her brother-in-law
after this sisterly fashion, she had many times been

interrupted by guests departing, whom she had to
escort to the door, or b}^ guests arriving, whom she
had to receive. Gradually the stacks of baba began
to be levelled, and gradually the egg-pyramids, which
had at first appeared unconquerable, commenced to
dwindle and shrink; the hams were beginning to show
their bones, while of the sucking-pigs there remained
little more than their grin.

Nevertheless, five o'clock in the afternoon found the
Wowasulka dining-room still full. No house was
more assailed by Easter visitors than this of the new-made
Marszalek. A swarm of black-coated courtiers
hovered perpetually round his person. His opinion
was asked, his views were agreed to, the arrangement
of his flower-garden was admired. What were his
opinions of the European peace ? What did he think
of the chances of this year's crops? What was the
last report of the railway company ? Was the Lod-nisi
line really to carry the day, or was the Bruszow
line still on the tapis f And then, as to this fever in
Tarajow, were the deaths really as numerous as reported?
A string of questions, as long as this and
longer, was being continually put to Lucyan by older
men and more experienced men than himself, who,
one and all, listened to his answers with at least outward
respect.

Lucyan answered the whole string of questions with

a patience which was most admirable. His opinion
of the European peace was good, and of the crops
bad. He really knew very little about the railway
company ; but the white posts were put up at Lod-nisi,
which any one could see for himself. The fever,
he believed, was very strong at Tarajow — there were
funerals daily — and it was a great bore certainly, coming
just at this time ; for ever so many workmen had
fallen off in consequence, and, as a result, the spring
work suffered.

I am thankful to say that I have my oats all in
the ground," said young Tiburtio, who was among the
guests, and who for the last two years had been a
married man.

There used never to be fevers in my day," remarked
a certain choleric old gentleman, who had
grown more choleric as well as older in these last
four years. " It all comes from the degeneracy of the
times."

But there used to be cholera and pest to make up
for it," suggested Lucyan ; and the guests, having had
a good deal of wodki by this time, laughed aloud at
the ready answer of the Marszalek.

Another gentleman, who rolled his eyes ferociously,
observed that no man present had outlived more
fevers than he had.

But the topic was not a festive topic, and it found

no favour; it was dropped for more congenial subjects,
while host and hostess pressed their guests to
finish up the cheerful day by a cheerful evening. The
mangled sucking-pigs had been replaced by whole
ones ; fresh stacks were beginning to rise down the
length of the long table ; a musical young gentleman,
who had recently lost his voice, was just regretting
his inability to favour the company with a song,
which no one had asked for, when again the sound of
carriage-wheels swept up to the door.

Xenia rose instinctively to receive this new guest ;
but Lucyan, turning from the window, made her a
sign to sit still. " It is only the doctor to see after
Wandusia," he whispered, as he passed her.

Every one saw the doctor leave his carriage, and
every one heard the doctor's steps going along the
passage, and nobody thought anything further of it.
The empty carriage began to drive slowly a little bit
up the road, and then down again. The guests looked
out of the window, criticised the horses, remarked
that they were ill matched, and then, growing tired
of the amusement, gave up the contemplation of the
doctor's equipage. Ten minutes later, looking out
again, they were surprised to see the carriage still
standing and still empty. The doctor was staying a
long time in the house, thought the guests, as they
waited for the return of their host. They waited full

ten minutes longer ; they began to feel curious first
then perhaps faintly uneasy. The doctor's well-known
face had been the first check upon the festive spirit of
the day; and somehow, as minute after minute passed,
people's eyes began to turn impatiently towards the
door, while unconsciously conversation flagged and
stood still. There had been steps more than once in
the passage, hurried steps passing ; and once a further
door had opened, and the voice of a wailing child
reached the listening ears. Then there was a pause,
and then, to everybody's relief, the door opened.

"You must not go home without a glass of wod-
ki, doctor," Lucyan was saying, as he ushered the
doctor in.

The doctor was an old man, and rather shortsighted.
He came a step into the room, then, peering
around him, he stood still and hesitated.

Oh," he said, with a slight start, " you have guests,
I see; rather unfortunate."

Come, that is polite to us," cried one of the
guests. They were all well acquainted with the doctor.
" Let us break an egg, doctor, I say."

But the doctor still stood and hesitated.

I am scarcely justified in intruding, although they
say that doctors carry no infection'*

"And teething is not infectious," added Lucyan,
with a laugh. But this time the Marszalek's joke

was not echoed, and Lucyan himself was scanning the
doctor's face very intently.

Teething is not infectious," repeated the doctor,
slowly, while the guests looked at each other, with the
cold chill of apprehension which had touched their
hearts reflected on their faces. The hostess herself,
with pale cheeks and startled eyes, was gazing from
her husband's face to that of the doctor, and back
again at her husband.

Who it was that first pronounced the dreaded word
no one knew ; but before another minute had passed,
the truth was flying round the room from mouth to
mouth. Every one whispered the word " fever " to
his neighbour, and, instinctively, every person who
was sitting rose, and every person who held a glass ora
plate put it hastily down.

The host, looking rather pale, was ushering the
doctor out, and returned to receive the hasty shakes of
the hand and hurried words of condolence of his departing
guests. There was no possibility of veiling the
truth by any roundabout phrases, for the plain word
had been spoken, and the panic-stricken guests fled
like sheep.

In twenty minutes more the house was deserted,
and nothing but the wrecks of habcc and the skeletons
of hams remained to tell of the joyful assembly
there had been.

And you," asked Lucyan, turning from the window
towards Kazimir, when the last of the carriages
had driven off, " of course you are going to fly ? Do
you want your horse led round ? "

No," said Kazimir. " Since I am here I shall
stay."

CHAPTEK IV.

LUCYAN PLAYS DIAMONDS.

"By merit raised
To that bad eminence. "

Paradise Lost.

Of course Lucyan had motives. It was not merely
because the sun was shining brightly outside, and
because the Easter lamb had bleated of Easter peace
over the green meadows, and the birds were chanting
their paschal Hallelujah overhead, that he had decked
his table and called together the guests to rejoice with
him over the brother who had been lost and was
found again. He was not a man to do anything
without motives ; and he had plenty of motives this
time, general as well as particular. The truest and
warmest hearted man that ever lived could not have
been more anxious than was Lucyan at this moment
to till up the breach of the last four years. The reasons
which made this desirable were various. To consider
it merely from the ornamental point of view, it

looked well to have a Imndsoine hussar brother about
the house. His uniform and moustache, his spurs and
his riding-cane, would all display themselves to the
general advantage and interest of the Marszalek's
household. And not only his spurs and his moustache,
— for Lucy an did full justice to his brother's
happy qualities of mind and manner, " Poor Kazio !
he is a brilliant butterfly," Lucyan would say, with a
mixture of pity and envy. He not only admitted the
brilliancy of the butterfly, he insisted on it, and so the
butterfly-nature became established with all the more
certainty. The Marszalek liked to hear people say
that he had the finest carriage, the best roses, the
prettiest wife in all the neighbourhood, — so why not
also the handsomest brother ?

But it was not merely as an ornament that Lucyan
desired his brother's presence. Kazimir might prove
useful as well as ornamental. An estrangement between
two brothers always has something suspicious
about it ; and Lucyan, who in his elevated position
felt himself and his actions illuminated to some extent
by the fierce light which beats on thrones, could
not afford to do anything which might appear suspicious.
It was much safer to be on good terms with
Kazimir, instead of on bad. As long as Kazimir's
regiment was stationed in Tyrol or Vienna, the breach
could do no harm, because to the eyes of the neighbourhood

it remained invisible ; but from the moment
that the hussars had been transferred to within a few
miles of Tarajow, Lu can's thoughts had tended, to
reconciliation. The breach must, of necessity, become
visible now. A breach presupposes a quarrel ; and
there never fail inquiring spirits who are anxious to
know what the quarrel has been about, and on which
side the fault lies.

Lucyan foresaw all this, and. ruminated over it. He
was in general given to deeper and more anxious reflections
now than four years ago. Four sears had
made changes in him as well as in his wife. He
looked older, thinner, more cautious, and more watchful.
His pale forehead had a line across it already,
though he was but twenty-eight. The higher a man
climbs, the more precarious does his footing become,
and the more destructive must prove a fall. Lucyan
had reached a height which, from its very elevation,
was slippery ; he knew that he must look carefully to
every one of his steps, especially if he wanted to reach
the yet greater heights which were the pinnacles of
his ambition. His ambition and his love of money
had made him into what he was now ; both had been
fed by success till each hungered for more, and each
trembled at the thought of losing what it already
held.

When first Lucyan heard of the hussars' arrival, he

felt convinced that Kazimir would be at Wowasulka
before a week was out. But that week passed, and
many others, and Kazimir did not appear. Lucyan
was thrown out of his reckonings ; he was not able
to imagine what amusement or what interest could
induce his brother to keep up a quarrel from which
there was no further advantage to be gained. As the
winter slowly passed, and Kazimir kept his distance,
Lucyan began to confess to himself that he had, after
all, somewhat mistaken his brother's character. Because
he knew Kazimir to be impulsive and thoughtless,
he had believed that he would be fickle in his
resolutions, and shallow, however passionate, in his
hate as well as in his love. Upon such obstinacy he
had not counted. He now recognised that the first
step would have to come from his side. Still he hesitated,
— not from any feeling of pride, but from a lack
of means. Then a bright thought, worthy of his
genius, struck him. If Kazimir had been so obstinate
in his enmity, might he not have been equally tenacious
in his love ? It was a chance, at any rate ; and
upon that chance he had thrown out a card — he had
played his Queen of Hearts. Father to his own surprise,
the card had taken the trick ; for almost as soon
as Kazimir, coming into Xenia's presence, had recognised
that his wound was not healed, Lucyan had
perceived the same. He had perceived it with a

shrug and a smile, such as men give in pity at another
man's folly. " To be sure he has not seen her for four
years," reasoned Lucyan, perhaps in explanation of
the folly. But the folly itself would fit most conveniently
into his plans. Kazimir had lost his buoyancy
and his lightness, he was a graver and a wiser
man ; but for all that he was not yet cured of his belief
in human nature, — and Lucyan rejoiced to see it.

So you got on well with Kazimir," he said to his
wife on that Easter-monday evening, after all the
terrified guests had fled from the house, and calmness
had in some degree been established among the no
less terrified servants. Xenia herself had spent the
evening in tears, and it was from the depth of a wet
pocket-handkerchief that she answered her husband's
question.

With Kazimir ? oh yes ; but do you really think,
Lucyan, that Wandusia will die ? "

It is of so much use asking my opinion, is it not ?
I wish you would stop crying, Xenia ; it will do 
no good, and it will only spoil your eyes ; " and
Lucyan looked towards his wife with evident anxiety,
for it would not suit his plans at all if her eyes were
spoiled.

She dried her eyes at once, though she still shook
with hysterical sobs.

I do not wish you to dwell on that subject," said

Lucy an. " I want to know what passed between you
and Kazimir. There was a little flirtation, was there
not ? "

Oh, Lucyan ! " She gazed at him with frightened
eyes, quite unable to understand from his tone whether
she were going to be scolded or praised. " Oh,
Lucyan ! " was the safest thing to say ; it covered all
contingencies, and she said it instinctively.

His wife's face at this moment seemed to amuse
Lucyan beyond all measure ; he stood looking at it
and laughing, while she trembled in fear of his next
words.

Do not look so scared, Xenia," he said, still laughing.
" I wanted only to know whether you and
Kazimir were really getting on as well together as
from the other end of the room you seemed to be.
Oh, you need not drop your eyes ; I know the length
of your lashes by heart. There is no harm, you know,
child ; is he not your brother-in-law ? "

Yes, of course," said Xenia, somewhat relieved.

"Well, he does not seem to think that you have
become much uglier in these four years, does he ? "

No," said Xenia, colouring, but with the suspicion
of a smile peeping out at the corners of her mouth.
After all, it was very pleasant to find that she had
not lost her looks in four years, and that Kazimir
saw it.

VOL. n. p

He would not mind doing you any little service,
for instance ? " suggested Lucyan.

I suppose not' said Xenia, utterly unable to follow
her husband's drift.

Or to give you a thing if you asked for it, would
he?"

I suppose not," repeated Xenia, more and more
bewildered. " Am I to ask him for anything ? "

Not just at present ; but it may come. Have you
ever heard of the story of the monkey who wanted the
hot chestnuts out of the ashes, Xenia ? "

Yes ; at least I think so."

Lucyan was standing beside his wife's chair. He
took up the hand which lay on her lap, and contemplated
it with the eye of a satisfied critic. It was a
hand perfect both in colour and shape ; so small, so
narrow, so delicate, so white a hand would have been
hard to match even in Poland, where all women have
comparatively beautiful hands. Lucyan looked it allover,
from the tiny wrist to the rosy nails ; and Xenia
sat quite passive, gazing alternately at her husband
and at her beautiful hand. Of course she knew that
her hand was beautiful, and she supposed that her
husband was admiring it, but she wondered why he
was admiring it just now. Neither was it much enlightenment
to her when in the next moment he said,
It would make a pretty little cat's-paw ; " and he

stroked it gently, as if afraid of breaking so frail a
thing. " And it is going to fetch out the hot chestnuts
so neatly from the ashes. Are you fond of chestnuts,
Xenia?"

Yes, rather ; I like them with salt," answered the
puzzled Xenia, vaguely aware that the hot chestnuts
were not really hot chestnuts. Lucyan laughed again,
and she started and shrank back, as she always did at
the sound of his laugh.

Then you will not mind burning your fingers a
little to get them," said Lucyan, looking on in exquisite
enjoyment at his wife's bewilderment. " I suppose
a diamond bracelet would quite make up for
burnt fingers, would it not, Xenia?"

A diamond bracelet ! " Xenia's eyes lit up, as
she stared at her husband. " Are you going to give
me a diamond bracelet, Lucyan ? " she asked, breathlessly.


I was thinking of it," said Lucyan, still softly stroking
the hand he held. " Diamonds would look well,
would they not, upon this little cat's-paw, — upon this
little wrist, I mean ? If you promise to do as you are
told, and to make yourself useful, I shall write to
Lwow about the bracelet."

"Will there be as many diamonds as in Madame
Murawska's ? " asked Xenia, with wide eyes.

There will be more," said Lucyan.

The wide eyes flashed for joy. " What am I to do,
Lucyan ? Can I not do it at once ? "

'No, not at once ; it is not time yet. See only that
Kazimir should not feel neglected this week. Keep
him in good-humour; and mind, you are not to sit
up at night in the nursery — leave that to stronger
people."

Xenia's tears burst out afresh. " Poor Wandusia !
don't you think she will get well, Lucyan ? Why will
you not let me nurse her ? "

I have told you why ; because the fever is infectious,
and you might catch it."

I want to catch it ; I want to die if she dies,"
sobbed Xenia, hysterically.

But you do not want to lose your complexion, I
suppose," suggested Lucyan ; " and no woman ever
recovers her complexion after this fever. They remain
sallow for life." »

The prospect of remaining sallow for life was far
more terrifying than the prospect of death. Xenia
began to consider the question seriously.

"You know it would not do if you lost your complexion,"
said Lucyan.

No, of course it would not do," admitted Xenia,
through her tears ; but then if Vizia nurses her "

Vizia has no complexion to lose."

To be sure." Xenia recognised the truth of that.

Poor Vizia ! she really has no complexion to
lose."

The complexion had turned the scale ; and this for
the present was all that Lucyan could do towards the
furtherance of the more particular motive which had
induced him to hold out the hand of reconciliation to
Kazimir. This was not the time to act further upon
that motive; everything had to give way to the unwelcome
guest which had come upon them unawares.
A horrid uneasiness prevailed over the household.
Every morning they awoke, wondering whether they
were still safe from the fever, and curious to know
whether no one had sickened in the night. At every
headache they thought of fever ; if their appetites
failed them, they were certain it was the fever. They
watched each other, and shunned each other with a
morbid caution. Even the inquiries which the neighbours
sent made them feel more like a plague-stricken
household ; for every servant of every neighbour had
been threatened with dismissal, should he venture
to cross the threshold of the infected house; so the
inquiries were shouted down from the seat of a vehicle,
which, halting at a safe distance, made off again as soon
as the answer was shouted back. The answers thus
shouted back varied but slightly : " A little better —
anxious night — fever increased — no change."

By the Thursday of that week, little Wandusia was

at the height of the fever, while two fresh cases had
broken out ; the cook and the garden-boy had taken it.
As yet no other member of the family was touched.

Kazimir did not know whether to be glad or sorry
for having remained at Wowasulka. To have gone
would have appeared to him like a cowardly abandoning
of them all in their trouble, and yet to stay seemed
like heightening the general confusion. The confusion
was yet more heightened when, on Wednesday,
Mademoiselle Eobertine suddenly appeared upon the
scene, in all the splendid gloom of black garments
and black veils, bringing with her a black hand-bag,
and looking more unfathomable than ever as she
stepped out of a conveyance which seemed to have
become infected with her own blackness. From the
Easter rejoicing she had fled, but the news of the fever
brought her back to the spot with a gloomy alacrity.
To her unspeakable surprise she found that she was
not wanted : for the black garments frightened 
into a lit; and, excluded from the room, Eobertine
was forced to content herself with concocting for the
invalid mysterious mixtures, after recipes which she
kept under lock and key.

As for the second elderly aunt, Madame Torska, she
remained in the house ; but partly from fear of the
fever, and partly from fear of the dangerous brother,
in whose presence she never could feel quite easy, she

shut herself up strictly in her room, and there remained
invisible. Lucyan likewise was generally invisible,
excusing himself on the plea of business ; and
thus it came about that the two unoccupied inmates of
the house — for Marcin seldom appeared — were thrown
into frequent contact. Many a time did Kazimir,
coming down the passage, hear whispered voices at the
other end, and catch sight of a slender figure, in a pale-blue
dressing-gown, over which streamed chestnut hair,
standing beside the sick-room door, and holding a tearful
parley through the chink. On these occasions,
Xenia was usually bearing in her hands a glass or a
plate with some delicacy, which, as she expressed herself,
she had prepared with her own fingers for her sick
darling, — but which, as Vizia repeatedly explained,
could not avoid being the sick darling's certain death.
A little slice of cake could not hurt her, — she is so
fond of cake, poor pet ! " or, " a drop of sweet wine
would be sure to do her good ; " thus Xenia was usually
parleying when Kazimir came down the passage.

Please take her away," Vizia would then say,
through the chink, to Kazimir; and then Kazimir
would take her away, and she, faintly protesting,
would allow herself to be led into another room, and
consoled by her brother-in-law. Every day this scene
took place, with small variations. Every evening,
Xenia, dressed in the same blue dressing-gown, and

with her hair hanging down her back, asked Lucyan,
May I sit up with Wandusia ? " And every evening
Lucyan answered, " 'No, you may not ; " after which
Xenia sobbed and protested; after which every one
persuaded her that her wish was foolish ; after which,
finally, Xenia resigned herself to go to sleep in her
own bed, and getting up next morning, fresh and
blooming, began again to spend her time as before,
between standing and sighing outside the nursery-door,
and then taking disinfectants for the fever, —
alternately shedding tears and bathing her eyes in
rose-water. She said prayers for her child upon a
mother-of-pearl rosary, and wore a silver medal upon
a blue ribbon round her neck as preservative against
the fever.

Matters were still at this stage, when Saturday, and
the end of Kazimir's short leave, came. He returned
to his station and to his work with a somewhat heavier
heart than that with which he had left it. Three days
passed, and he had had no news from Wowasulka. On
Tuesday afternoon, feeling uneasy at this silence, he
started to make inquiries.

CHAPTER V.

A SMALL Card.

Infandum, regina, jubes renovate colored."

—Virgil.

The afternoon was cloudless, the sky blindingly blue,
the air perfumed with violets. In Lucyan's garden
the violets were flowering in profusion. A perfect
wave of violet-scent swept towards Kazimir as he
drew close to the house. The gardener was busy
gathering the flowers which grew thickly between the
rocks and rhododendrons at the far end of the garden.
Lucyan, whose masterful genius loved perfection in
details, had covered every bare patch in the rockery
with violet plants ; for the rockery was his proudest
creation. "Have you seen my twins?" he had one
day startled Kazimir by asking; and then, with a
laugh at his brother's inquiring stare, he had pointed
to a pair of tall rocks which stood side by side on the
slope, far overtopping their scattered fellows. " My
twins are fine specimens, are they not?" Lucyan added,
with all the pride of a newly made father.

It was beside Lucyan's twins that Kazimir now
caught sight of a basket, full to overflowing with
purple heads ; he vaguely wondered for what so many
violets could be wanted. As he turned from the garden
to the house a chill of fear touched him, — for he
saw shuttered windows ; and in the doorway Lucyan
was standing with a tall hat in his hand ; and as
Kazimir got nearer, he saw that there was black crape
round the hat.

Wandusia had died on Sunday, the day after Kashmir
left the house. In the confusion no one had
thought of writing to him ; but he had come in time
for the funeral, — for the priest was to be here almost
immediately. And then a white hand was laid on
Kazimir's arm, and a quivering voice whispered, " Shall
I show her to you ? you have never seen her, and she
looks so pretty."

Kazimir following his beautiful, black-robed guide,
found himself standing in a darkened room, where
wax-candles where flickering around a little bed, and
where the violet-scent made the air almost too sickly
to be sweet. Aunt Eobertine was there, looking more
in place than Kazimir had ever seen her look before ;
and Vizia was there, haggard with long watching, and
red-eyed with weeping — for Vizia had not had time
to use rose-water.

Is she not lovely ? " whispered the voice beside

him ; and Kazimir, gazing down, started at the sight
of that little face, pillowed on lace and framed in
blooming violets. He had never seen it before, and
yet it was so familiar. The short chestnut curls, the
transparent pearly tint of skin, the long curling
lashes, the tiny rosebud mouth, they were all as
familiar to him as things that he knew well ; and as
things that he knew well too, there struck upon him
that spotless innocence of childhood, that heavenly
purity of smile, stamped upon the two-year-old
features, as things that he knew well — or rather
that he had known well — not so long ago, four years
at most. He did not seem to know them so well
now. The little Wandusia on the bed seemed almost
more like the Xenia of four years ago than the beautiful
woman that stood beside him in this moment.

Is she not lovely ? " whispered Xenia beside him.

Take care," said Lucyan's voice sharply, — " the
wreath, you will crush it ; " for Kazimir had bent to
kiss the little face on the pillow.

The blood seemed to rush from his heart to his
head, as his lips touched the small cold cheek. With
one leap of memory he was borne back to a night
years ago, when he had touched a cheek as fair as
that, but less cold ; and when he had looked into eyes
that were veiled by just such soft lashes as these.
He had kissed Xenia but that once in his life, and in

this moment it seemed to him almost as though he
were kissing her for the second time. Why was it
that there flashed through his mind a feeling of something
that was lost; something that had been and
was no more ; something that he must mourn for as
past ?

He awoke from a dream to the sound of her voice,
and to the consciousness that Lucy an was putting to
rights again the violet wreaths which he had displaced.
AYould he come into the next room now ?
the whisper asked ; she wanted to show him something
else.

He went into the next room ; and in the next room
there was a different sight to see.

"Are they not lovely?" asked Xenia, drying her
eyes, as she opened a morocco case. " I have never
had a diamond bracelet yet, and they came just to-day.
Is it not kind of Lucyan ? "

Kazimir found it very kind of Lucyan, and very
thoughtful ; it was only an additional proof of how
thoroughly Lucyan understood women. He himself
would never have guessed that diamonds were such a
powerful means of drying tears. He ruminated upon
the question for the next hour; he reflected upon
it still as he followed the funeral towards Tarajow.
Lucyan and he alone followed, for Marcin, at the last
moment, was not to be moved from the house. Kashmir

being sent to Hurry him, found his brother seated
in his dressing-gown, by the window, lazily watching
the little coffin as it was lifted into the carriage.

"Marcin! what are you thinking of?" Kazimir
exclaimed. " We are all waiting for you."

'' I will tell you what I was thinking of," answered
Marcin, leaning back. " I was thinking what a comfortable
thing it must be to be a corpse ; it is such a
blessing to think that one will have to take no trouble
about one's own funeral."

"Are you ill, Marcin?" asked Kazimir, somewhat
startled by his brother's look.

Marcin gazed at him with a puzzled air. " I've got
lead in my arms and legs, and wheels in my head, but
I am quite ^vell otherwise."

This was all the account Marcin could give of
himself, and the mourning-carriage had started without
him. There were many mourning-carriages following
the funeral, and many more violet - wreaths sent
to be laid on the small coffin. At the entrance of the
wooden church outside Tarajow, there stood a crowd
of gaping peasants, dressed in their best, for it was the
Russian Easter now. A peasant-bride stood therewith
a thick round wreath of periwinkles perched on
the crown of her head ; she had walked ten miles to be
married, but she could not be married that day, they
told her, for the Marszalek's child had to be buried.

There was not a stone in the entire construction of
the church : the square enclosure in which it stood,
the four low turrets at the four corners of the enclosure,
the church itself with its round-roofed 
domes, was framed entirely and solely of
deep-brown wood. The wooden walls were cut at rare
intervals by tiny square windows ; in consequence of
this the church was dark ; and in consequence of the
darkness there were, on this occasion, a profusion of
candles lit. Not only were there candles flaming on
the altar and round the coffin, but in order to give
additional pomp to the ceremony, and be all the more
sure of pleasing the Marszalek, there were candles
distributed throughout the length and breadth of the
congregation. A Polish peasant is never so happy as
when he is holding a burning candle; but perhaps
because it was Easter-week, and the greater part of
the congregation had been refreshing themselves more
than usual at the wddki shops, few of the candles even
approached the perpendicular. Wax was dripped and
hair was singed, and many a hole was burnt in many
a peasant's best coat.

Over the altar there hung a gloomy and terrific
representation illustrative of eternal torments ; and
upon this painting all the eyes of young and old hung
with an irresistible fascination — for to the Polish
peasant his religion is nothing, if it is not a religion

of terror. The Polish peasant has a broad mind, and
requires to be treated by broad means. Such feeble
pictures of hell as show nothing more dreadful than
seas of melted fire or commonplace coils of snakes,
could not hope to intimidate an untutored Polish
mind. Something much more distinct and tangible is
required, as the priests have found out long ago ; and
therefore it is that the altar-piece in almost every
peasant church shows hell as represented by innumerable
devils, each holding a pitchfork, while upon
the point of each pitchfork there struggles at least
one victim, with starting eyes and foaming mouth ;
and as a culminating touch to the situation, every
devil spits fire into every victim's face. Not even a
Polish peasant can misunderstand this ; and he kneels
cowering and staring, while the salutary reflection
forces itself upon his mind that if he drinks too
much woclki, or beats his wife too often, or steals
more than is reasonable of his neighbour's Tcasza,
thus will he be treated — devils, pitchforks, and all.

The closely-packed peasants, the sputtering candles,
the perfume of woclJd, and the scent of incense, combined
to an unpleasant degree. It was a relief to taste
the evening air again. The ceremony had lasted long,
and the sun was near setting, when Kazimir, having
taken leave of his brother, turned his face homewards.

Whether it was little Wandusia's death that had

depressed him, or whether the devils and their pitchforks
had affected him so deeply certainly Kazimir
rode along in a gloomy and dejected mood. He began
to think over the week that he had passed in his
brother's house ; he began to picture to himself again
that figure in deep mourning that had stood beside
him this afternoon. Restlessly he asked himself, when
should he see her again? To-morrow? The day after?
How soon could he go again? There was a voice which
said within him, — Never ; go never again ! What right
had he to go to his brother's house since he was in
love with his brother's wife ? For he saw now that he
loved her more desperately and more madly than he
had loved her four years ago. It was easy to wish
now that he had thrust back the olive-branch held
out ; but the olive-branch had been taken, and it had
wounded him more deeply than the point of a warlike
lance could have done. " But I need not go back
there for the present," thought Kazimir, with a desperate
resolution. " I will stay away a month, or a
fortnight, and perhaps I shall feel cooler then." And
he immediately began to draw pictures in his mind of
Xenia ; there could be no harm in dwelling on them,
since he was not to see her for so long. Only the
pictures had grown more confused. Was he to think
of her as crying by the deathbed of her child, or as
smiling over her diamond bracelet ? In both pictures

she looked equally beautiful, but they would not remain
distinct. And again and again a third picture,
more confused than the others, would force itself before
his mind. It seemed to him that it was Xenia
whom he had seen on her deathbed, with the violet-wreaths
all around her, and that smile of heavenly
innocence on her face, and the fancy clung to him that
it was Xenia whom he had kissed, and that it was a
farewell kiss that he had given. And yet it was not
Xenia who had been laid to rest in that little cemetery
beside the wooden church. Kazimir turned in his
saddle and looked back towards the place he had left.
There stood the round brown towers, and a blaze of
crimson sunset flamed behind them. The sky was
brilliant and dazzlingly red. He had not seen so fine
a sunset for long, he thought, as he turned his head
and rode on.

He did not think of the sunset again until ten
minutes later, when he came upon a group of peasants
standing at a turn of the road. There was,
amongst others, the peasant-bride, who had waited at
the church door ; only now she was in tears, and her
bridegroom was drunk, and her periwinkle-wreath lay
fading in the ditch.

Upon all the faces there shone a red reflection, and
the same red light was dancing on the tree-tops.

Kazimir, turning again, perceived that the sunset,
VOL. n. Q

instead of fading, had become finer than ever, which
was contrary to the habit of sunsets. Neither had it
the calmness of a sunset ; for the crimson blaze flickered
as it rose and fell, and the brilliant flames seemed
almost as though they were really flaming.

WielJci Polar ! " the ]peasants were whispering as
they stared ; and Kazimir, catching the words, turned
his horse, and gazed more keenly towards the west.
No, that was no sunset. The peasants were right ; it
was a fire — a large fire. The Tarajow church was
burning ; and once a Eussian church begins to burn, it
would be as hopeful a task to try to extinguish a pile
of burning wood. No pile of wood could, in fact, be
so conveniently laid for conflagration as these strange
edifices, where a spark dropped near the wooden
walls can hardly fail to breed destruction. The tears
of the bride were explained ; for well did she know
that, before the church was built up again, her bridegroom
would have converted into woclki the sum
which was to have been their marriage portion. The
burning of the Tarajow church had undoubtedly
affected one destiny directly. It did not occur to
Kazimir to-night, nor did it occur to Lucyan next
day, nor to Marcin, nor to any one else, that it might
indirectly affect some other destinies.

The Tarajow church had been burnt down several
times before, and would probably burn down several

times again. How should they guess that in this fire
was forged the first link of a chain which was to
weigh heavily upon more than one life?

No prophetic instinct touched Kazimir, as he gazed
at the fire ; no shiver of apprehension came over him
as he rode homewards, and no visions visited him in
the night. He was tired, and he slept soundly, and
was awakened next morning by a message from Woe
His brother Marcin had taken the fever.

CHAPTER YL

A SINGLETON.

It is not good that man should be alone"— Gen. ii. 18.

It was on a fair May morning that Vizia stood, with
an open letter in her hand, beside a post of wood
painted white. She was alone at Lodniki again,
whither she had returned after Wandusia's funeral,
and she had resumed that lonely and independent life
which so greatly shocked all her friends. That it was
a melancholy life to lead, was to be seen from the
expression of habitual sadness which had settled upon
her face, and that it had been an unprofitable life as
well, was evident from the many signs of decayed
fortune which were visible all around her. The
stables had sunk in ruins ; the garden, once planned
by Eogdanovics, had for the most part been abandoned
to weeds ; all, save a few, of the windows were
barred up with shutters ; what had been in bad condition
four years ago was going to wreck now ; where

there had been signs of neglect visible then, there was
nothing but desolation now. It would have been all
but impossible to trace the resting-place of the " Ehiz-
anelkometer," where it lay beside the tree-trunk, so
thick had the nettles and the brambles grown in these
years. It was a dismal place to live at, a dismal life
to lead; and yet hitherto Vizia had clung to it almost
with fondness — had revelled in its solitude, and
hugged its melancholy to her heart. She had found
a bitter comfort when lying awake in winter nights,
to listen to the wolf howl in the forest, or the
shriek of the night-bird, as it shot past her window,
and to say, "I am alone and unsupported — I owe
gratitude to no one ; and if I rise, I rise through my
own strength — and if I fall, I fall by myself alone."

When Vizia had first formed the resolution of
managing Lodniki for herself, she had thought herself
most admirably suited for the task; for in her own
energy and perseverance she had full confidence. In
reality she could not have been more unsuited than
she was. Her very energy stood in her way ; it
pushed her to extremes. She was too obstinate to
take advice, too imprudent to weigh her chances
coolly, and too proud to confess her failures. She
was, in fact, everything which a woman in this position
should not be. Not even her friends knew — or
if any one had guessed, it could only be Lucyan — to

what straits lie had brought herself by this time.
The estate had been left by Eogdanovics in an unfavourable
condition, and under Vizia's hands it had
sunk to a despairing one. Every day for the last
three years had seemed to be bringing her nearer to
utter ruin ; every year the percentage for sums borrowed
from the Jews accumulated at a pace as alarming
as it was destructive. Lodniki belonged by this
time to the Jews almost more than to her.

Such had been her position until within a few
months past. Then, all at once, a merciful Providence
seemed to have thrown in her very path the means of
salvation. The long-talked-of and half-forgotten railway
began to be talked of again. The country was
stirred with the excitement of the prospect. Intrigues
were set on foot, deputations were organised, petitions
were written. And even if the petitions were never
attentively read, and if the deputations did not really
affect the matter one way or the other, the former
where at least good outlets for superfluous energy, and
the latter were first-rate opportunities for taking little
trips to Lemberg and Vienna, paying visits in national
costume to ministers and ambassadors ; and then, having
first spent several days in drinking to the success
of the future railway, in expensive wines at first-rate
hotels, to return home, bringing such precious crumbs
of speech, fallen from ministerial or even imperial

lips, as : " We shall have much pleasure in considering
the question ; " or, " We can see no serious objection to
the fulfilment of your wishes ; " or the important verdict
of the minister of war, who thought that he was
justified in saying that, so far as he could see, in the
possible case of a long course of European war (which
he trusted was improbable), the railway proposed
might prove of some importance. The money spent
upon journeys, the paper spent on petitions, and the
eloquence spent on addresses during the six months
that the railway-fever stood at its height, were far more
than were expended in six years of ordinary existence.
There was scarcely a member of Parliament left unmolested
by entreaties ; and there was scarcely a proprietor
in that part of the country who was not
anxious to prove, and who did not to his own satisfaction
prove, that only by passing through his particular
estate could the future railway hope to be beneficial
to national as well as international interests.

In spite of all this spurious energy, and in spite of
the great pleasure which high personages declared
they would feel in considering the question, the railway
ran a great chance of falling asleep again for
another ten years ; and might very likely have done
so, had the Poles been left to themselves. But they
were not left to themselves. An enterprising Belgian
Company, which had already laid some hundred

thousand miles of rails in their day — which had
made several dozen canals navigable, and several
.dozen mountains more easily accessible, by its splendid
engineering — which was in the habit of buying up a
whole street one day, and selling it on the next — and
which had contracts with more than half the Governments
of Europe, — suddenly took the matter into its
hands. It had scented the chance from afar; and
stretching out its arm half across Europe, prepared to
strike while the iron was hot. Before the Poles had
time to cool down from the pitch of feverish excitement
to which the smooth-spoken ministers and the
Vienna hotel-suppers had worked them, the Er^res
Longuebourse, or rather their emissaries (for the Frees
Longuebourse themselves were two fat, old men, too
wheezy even to walk down their own marble staircase),
had set foot in the land, and were casting their eyes
about them. Nothing could have been more startling
than the appearance of these Belgians in this sleepy
corner of the earth. Their nonchalance, their rapidity,
the breadth of their ideas, quite took away the breath
of the neighbourhood. These hundred miles of railway,
which had been such an awful and such a harrowing
question to the country, were mere child's-play,
a bagatelle, to be regarded more as recreation than as
work for the Freres Longuebourse.

Vizia had at first taken little interest in the railway

question. Of course it must ultimately raise the value
of her estate, as it would raise the value of every
estate in the neighbourhood. But the railway would
take two, perhaps three, years to build — and Yizia
knew well that she could not wait so long. Lodniki
must be nominally, as well as virtually, in the hands
of the Jews, before another year was out. It was
only when the proposition was set forth that the line
of railway should pass through the Lodniki ground
itself, that Vizia suddenly saw a ray of hope. The
exact line to be taken by the railway at this point of
its course had hung for some time in doubt. More
than a dozen different lines had been mooted ; but the
dozen had now dwindled down to two, and Lodniki
was one of the two. Not only this, but Lodniki was
the favourite of the two. The Freres Longuebourse
had set up a row of posts upon the ground, and they
had set up none on the Bruszow line. From the
moment that the posts were up — even though the contract
was not signed — Vizia felt that she was saved.
And her hopes were not unreasonable ; for the Freres
Longuebourse were not only large in their ideas of
railways and canals, but also broad in their notions
of payment. A few thousand florins were neither
here nor there to the Freres Longuebourse.

They had opened treaty with Vizia for the railway
ground, hinting at a sum which, in her present desperate

strait, quite dazzled her with its magnificence.
As yet they had not got beyond hinting, but this
morning post had brought her a letter from the Belgian
Company, which contained a new and important
proposition.

It was this letter which Vizia held open in her
hand, as she stood beside the post. She had read it
several times over already, and now she was reading
it over again, for she could not quite make up her
mind whether to the proposition here contained she
should say Yes or No. The Company offered to buy
the estate entirely. It was an abnormal proceeding;
but as Lodniki lay in a long and narrow strip, and the
projected line ran the whole length of that strip, the
Company, being enterprising, had hit upon the idea as
good ; more especially as the wood on the estate would
be enough to supply timber for the entire line.

It was a good price which they offered, and, on the
whole, Vizia leant towards " yes." There was, to be
sure, a pang in parting from Lodniki just as it was
about to become prosperous, and in relinquishing all
ownership of the white posts, which had first brought
her hope. But on the other hand it happened, strangely
enough, that this lonely life to which she had clung so
tenaciously till now, had suddenly become to her own
eyes unattractive. She was not quite able to trace
since when this change of sentiment had occurred, and

she did not think of asking herself whether the change
had come since a certain day, a little while ago, when
Kazimir had expressed his opinions on this subject.
Feminine independence had lost all its charms in her
eyes since then.

By what appeared to be a coincidence, the same
morning which brought Vizia's letter brought her also
a visit from Lucyan. He found her with the letter
still in her hand. " I have just come over to give you
the last news of Marcin," he said, as he sauntered
across the grass towards Vizia. " He is up for the
first time to-day ; looks like a ghost of himself, but the
doctor says he will recover his strength in a week or
two. I wonder whether he will ; he is most extraordinarily
weak at present. If he does not recover, it
certainly will not be for want of medicines ; that apothecary's
girl is continually in the house with bottles,
and boxes, and powders. Ah, you have a letter; don't
let me disturb you."

There is no secret about the letter ; you can read
it, if you like ; " and Vizia held out the paper to
Lucyan.

Just as I thought," said Lucyan to himself, as he
took the sheet ; " Aitzig is a good spy."

He read the letter very carefully, and returned it.
The Belgians are a business-like nation," he remarked,
after a silence. " And the Freres Longuebourse must

be long-headed men," he added, after a second silence,
as Vizia made no answer.

What makes you find that out to-day ? " she asked
now.

'' This letter."

Eeally ? " said Vizia, coldly, folding np the letter
again. She was very much inclined to ask Lucyan
what he meant, only that it would appear like asking
for his advice, and she hated to do that.

It accounts for their immense success," continued
Lucyan, as though musing. " Always to see a chance
for their interest, and never to miss it ; that is just the
proper way."

Then you think it would be a good bargain for
them ? " broke out Vizia. She bit her lip in the next
moment, wishing she had not spoken.

Lucyan smiled very slightly, and stroked his black
moustache. " A good bargain for them ? There can
scarcely be two opinions about the matter, T should
think. They offer you about two-thirds of what the
real value of the estate is, and they get their wood for
nothing. Of course, you accept the offer?" he added,
turning his eyes upon her sharply.

Why of course ? " inquired Vizia, contradictiously.

"Well, because it is an offer which no woman in
your position should refuse."

What did he know of her position ? What right had

he to be aware that she was on the verge of bankruptcy
? Vizia coloured scarlet with vexation.

It must be a great relief to you' continued Lucyan,
quite calmly, " to have found this convenient opportunity
of ridding yourself of Lodniki and its management.
I always predicted that it would be so, you
know."

Vizia stood crumpling her letter in her hand, and
biting her lip. She did not trust herself to answer,
for she knew that she could not answer without speaking
hotly. The footing on which she stood towards
her cousin's husband was a strained and disagreeable
footing. Never in all these four years had the coldness
between them thawed, even by one degree.

The woman who would make a good farmer,"
Lucyan was saying as he stood watching Vizia out of
his half-closed eyes, "has not been created yet. No
woman has the nerve, the patience, or the coolness
for the work."

Vizia could keep silence no longer. " Father say
at once," she answered scornfully, " that all women
are fools ; I know you believe it, so why not proclaim
it ? "

Because I never could think of doing anything so
rude," said Lucyan, with an enraging smile. " Besides,
you exaggerate my ideas, and do not make
allowances for them. One is rather apt to judge

of all women, is one not, by the pattern of one's
wife?"

What have you to complain of in your wife ? "
asked Vizia, with a flash of the old protecting feeling.

Oh, nothing ; she has quite brains enough for
putting on her clothes prettily, and keeping up delightful
chatter by the hour ; but I should as soon
think of discussing a business question, such as this
one " — and he motioned towards the letter — " with a
two-year-old child as with Xenia. Que voulez-vous ?
One must take women as they are. That I should be
discussing such a question with you, should be proof
enough that I do not consider you as belonging to the
same — let us say category, as Xenia. To return to the
question : you have quite made up your mind, I suppose,
to say ' yes ' t othe Frees Longuebourse ? "

I have not made up my mind to say anything as
yet," said Vizia, embittered rather than softened by
the implied compliment to her intelligence.

It was just the other day, was it not," said Lucyan,
with a sneer, " that Kazimir was advising you to get
ridof Lodniki?"

Yes, he did advise me the other day," said Vizia,
defiantly. "What of it?"

Oh, nothing," laughed Lucyan ; " only that it is so
strange to hear a man of that sort setting up to give
grave advice upon these subjects. If I were going to

buy a horse, or order a cask of wine, I should certainly
ask Kazimir's advice, — but as for anything else 1 "

What do you mean by ' a man of that sort ' ? " she
interrupted, choking with sudden passion.

"I do not mean anything which need cause any
excitement," said Lucyan, as he contemplated her
burning cheeks. " It is nothing so very bad to say of
a young man that he has been a little gay — 'wild,'
some people call it."

"They call it wrong then," cried Yizia, with a
passionate flash in her eyes ; " every one is wrong who
says that he has done harm. Why are you all treating
him as though he were a black sheep ? Why are
you all so condescending and so cool ? Why do you,
in particular, never mention his name without a shrug
and a smile of pity ? What harm has he done ?
Can you name it ? "

Lucyan made no attempt at naming it : he merely
gave another shrug and another smile, as though to
say that against feminine arguments he had no defence.
Vizia's lips were quivering with excitement, for the
rage slowly gathering during these last five minutes
had entirely broken through the barrier of her self-control.
Lucyan saw it, and begged her to compose
herself. The effect was to make Vizia lose the last
remains of her composure.

I will not compose myself; I will speak ; and I

will be listened to. It has been burning on my lips
many a time to ask you how you dare treat your
brother as you do. He is a better man than you are,
and you know it ; he would have made a better husband
to Xenia; she would have been happier with
him, and you know that too."

I know nothing of the sort," said Lucyan, quietly.
Xenia's happiness requires to be fed upon society,
diamond bracelets, and Paris toilets ; Kazimir would
never have understood how to give her these, and
I do."

And in spite of her diamonds and her Paris
toilets, I pity her," said Vizia, hotly.

'' Take care ! " Lucyan raised a warning hand. " Do
not let any one hear you say that ; people might get
false ideas. When a woman pities too much, it usually
means that she is jealous."

Vizia stared, scarcely understanding his meaning ;
it was not easy in the first moment to imagine what
possible motive for jealousy, in this sense, she could
be supposed to have towards Xenia. But as she
stared, she understood. Lucyan's smile and the lookin
his eyes made it clearer than his words. It flashed
upon her now that this man had once been called her
suitor ; that he had aspired, or had appeared to aspire,
to her hand. This was what he meant by jealousy.
She was a woman, and therefore she must be jealous

of the position which her cousin held, and which she
might have held herself. At the thought, there rose
in Yizia's soul such a wave of contempt and repulsion
that it quite drowned the hot anger of a minute ago.
She wondered at the calmness of her own voice, as,
turning her eyes full upon Lucyan, she answered :
I understand you perfectly well ; be so kind as to
understand me. I never would have married you ; I
should as soon have become a galley-slave as have
become your wife. I know what made you think of
me before you thought of Xenia," — she came a step
nearer, and her eyes dilated slowly. " You thought I
was the rich cousin, and that she was the poor cousin ;
you might have made a fatal mistake, — only there was
no danger. I never would have married you ; you
know it."

He knew it ; he had known it long ago ; he had
hated her for it these four long years. Lucyan never
forgave an injury, provided that injury was a wound
to his vanity ; and the contempt and coldness which
had met him four years ago, had made his vanity
smart sorely. They had been treasured up since then
among his list of unforgiven offences. If he hated
her for her contempt, he hated her yet more for the
sharpness of her sight. He had known that both
existed, but this burst of passion revealed them as
existent in a degree which he had scarcely suspected.

VOL. n. R

The freezing: coldness of her glauce had at least the
power to stagger him for a moment. He stood opposite
to her in silence, though the smile never faded
from his face. Vizia slowly withdrew her eyes, and
turned her head away. This burst of reproach had
rubbed off a long score she felt, and she breathed the
more freely for it. With averted face she stood, waiting
for him to speak. It took him about half a
minute to recover from the unwonted feeling of surprise,
and then he spoke quite composedly, and in
quite different words from those which Vizia had
expected.

It strikes me that wee have become more personal
than we intended, have we not ? There is no good in
quarrelling over it, you know; and besides, I never
quarrel with ladies, — it is against my principles. Are
you not perhaps a little tired, over-excited with the
cares of management? Xo wonder you should be
anxious to free yourself from all responsibility. I
must be going homewards now : shall I send Kazimir
to discuss business with you one of these days, and to
give you advice ? "

"I do not want anybody's advice," said Vizia,
sullenly.

To 'persuade you, then, to sell the estate ; to clench
your resolution. I should have thought that either
advice or persuasion, coming from that quarter, would

have been particularly agreeable. But I am taking
up too much of your time, and I really must be going.
No messages for Xenia ? Good morning ; " and he
walked away again across the grass.

Vizia, as she stood looking after him, was trembling
from head to foot in a fever of passion. His last
words had been purposely pointed ; and even an edge
far less sharp would have sufficed to pierce her sensitive
pride. She was not able to recall each one of her
excited words, but she understood that she had betrayed
herself now, — she did not know that she had betrayed
herself long ago. Her secret lay bare before Lucyan.
He had dared to taunt her with it ; he would dare to
taunt her with it again. What torture to her pride !
She was clutching the crumpled letter convulsively in
her hand, — she looked down at the paper now. If she
said "yes" in reply, as Lucyan advised, — and as
Kazimir had indirectly advised then, — Vizia's cheek
burnt red again. She saw now in what light her
motives would be viewed. No ; she would decide for
herself. If she kept the estate, it would be because she
was strong enough to sustain her own position ; if she
sold it, it would only be because she chose to do so,
and not by any means because she had been advised.
Meanwhile Lucyan was smiling to himself, as he
drove homewards. " She hates me," he muttered to
himself, — " she always hated me ;" and as he leant back

on the seat of his carriage, there seemed to be scrawled
all over the blue May sky the gigantic word "Revenge."
There was to his eyes a most extraordinary
sweetness about that word just now. " You are very
clever, Mademoiselle Vizia/' he reflected; "but not
quite as clever as I am."

He had told the coachman to drive straight home,
but when half-way there he changed his mind, and
ordered him to go round by the Tarajow road, and
stop at the Propinacya. Arrived there, he got out
and inquired whether Aitzig Majulik was in.

Aitzig Majulik was in. A mumbling sound, which
"Lucy an knew well, told him that it was so. Aitzig
was busy with his devotions in a back-room, and had
apparently been busy with his w6dki too. Not drinking
it, — Aitzig's temptations did not lie in that direction,
— but, on the contrary, taking care that the poor
ignorant peasants should not get too much of the
demon down their throats ; for those bottles and jars
filled two-thirds with spirits, and those water-cans
alongside, irresistibly suggested a thinning process.
The mumbling sound ceased for a moment, as Lucyan
entered, and Aitzig, bringing down his eyes from the
ceiling, where they had been fastened in an ecstasy of
devotion, turned them sharply towards the door. His
left arm was bared to the elbow, and bandaged in a
strange fashion. He also wore a bandage round his

head, which at first sight suggested a broken skull, or
at least a bruised temple. But Aitzig's skull was in
unimpaired condition, as were all his mental powers.
The strange bandages were nothing but the tablets of
the Ten Commandments, technically called Swollen,
and worn in the orthodox fashion ; and the mumbling
sound was the recital of those same Commandments
a part of Aitzig's daily devotions.

Thou shalt not kill. — The gracious Pan wishes to
speak to me ? " for just then Lucyan entered.

It is only a minute," said Lucyan. " I have been
to Lodniki and seen her. The letter had come this
morning."

When Aitzig says that a thing will come, it will
come. — Thou shalt not steal. — Has the Panii answered
the letter yet?"

No. Of course if she accepts the proposition then
my plans are smashed ; but I have been talking to her
now, and I think she will not." Lucyan smiled again.

"Thou shalt not bear false testimony against thy
neighbour," mumbled Aitzig, nodding at the same
time, with his eye upon Lucyan, to show that he was
quite keeping pace with the discussion of the subject
in hand.

Are all our plans organised and working properly? "
asked Lucyan.

Aitzig, before answering, made rapid work of the

two last Commandments, jumbling up his neighbour's
ox, ass, wife, and servant, which he was not to covet,
in somewhat unceremonious fashion. Then taking
the bandage from his head and arm, he hung up the
tablets on a rusty nail in the wall, beside a second
rusty nail upon which there hung a bag, made entirely
of cloth savages, (Aitzig had a cousin in the cloth
line) which bag contained the most precious of all his
garments, his Tales or shroud, — the black and
silver envelopment in which he went to the synagogue
every Sagas, and in which he would some day be
carried to his grave.

"Then the gracious Pan has quite made up his
mind to take this step, and not to mind the risk?" said
Aitzig, turning from the wall and pulling down his
threadbare sleeve over his skinny arm.

Yes ; I have quite made up my mind," said Lucyan,
with a frown. " Set to work at your mole-work as fast
as you can. We have agreed upon all the points, you
know."

"Very well, very well," — Aitzig passed one hand
slowly over the other ; " it is worth while risking a little
for a fine sum like that, is it not, noble Pan ? Hi, hi,
hi ! " — and Aitzig laughed softly through his nose, and
then stood looking at Lucyan from under his deep
brows.

Lucyan returned the gaze with outward indifference,

but it was not the same indifference, nor so real an
indifference, as that with which he had looked upon
the Jew some years ago. Aitzig had been his instrument,
and Aitzig knew his secrets, and within these
four years there had slowly grown up a certain dread
of his own instrument, and hatred of the man who was
in his secrets. That dread and that fear had not been
there at first, nor had it come all at once ; it had been
the gradual growth of four years. Aitzig had been
one of the steps by which Lucyan had climbed to his
present position ; but it was not a step upon which it
was pleasant to look back ; and unless that step and
all trace of it were entirely removed, how could Lucyan
ever feel sure of his footing on the height ? Aitzig
was a ragged, dirty, slipshod, threadbare Jew ; and
yet, to a certain extent, he held the Marszalek in his
power. A rumour, a suspicion of that unclean transaction
which had passed between them, would have
shaken the ground under Lucyan's feet. To be sure,
the same blow would strike them both ; but the Jew
could not fall far, for he stood low already, while for
Lucyan the fall would be from a fatal height. And
all the more did Lucyan tremble for his position that
he knew the envy which it excited; he had read
jealousy under many an obsequious smile, and it was
not difficult to imagine the cries of exultation which
would greet his fall. Tor the Marszalek, though he

knew he was respected, was too clever to imagine
that he was loved.

He might have seen all this before — and to some
extent he had seen it— though the full realisation of
such things can come but by degrees. He had not
quite realised the anxieties, the unrest, the perplexities,
which would be the prize of his position. But
even in moments when these most oppressed him, he
never regretted the price he had paid. The risk was
worth running, after all.

Imperceptibly the footing on which he stood towards
Aitzig had shifted and changed. Aitzig bent
and wriggled and cringed, and behaved as much as
ever like a worm under foot ; but now the worm had
developed a sting, and sometimes that sting was stealthily
advanced. The sight of it made Lucyan shudder ;
for his nerves, which had stood him in such good stead
while he was scaling the slippery height, began to fail
him a little, now that the height was reached.

It was a very strange glance which these two men
shot at each other whenever they met. On both sides
the glance was suspicious and fearful. The Jew knew
that Lucyan feared him, and wished him out of the
way, and for that reason he feared Lucyan. Thus
the fear on each side acted and reacted back upon the
other, so that each was steadily growing, and had been
steadily growing these four years past.

"Aitzig is to set about his mole-work, then," repeated
the Jew, still softly chuckling. "And the
price for the mole-work is fixed, noble Pan. A fifth
of the profit goes into poor old Aitzig's pocket ? "
He gently stroked his threadbare pocket, in anticipation
of the happy moment. It was the same kaftan
that he had worn four years ago, and it was the
identical pocket into which the fifty florins had gone
on that July evening on which Lucyan had tended
his sick rose. No one, from Aitzig's outward appearance,
or that of his household, could have guessed at
his improved fortunes. He had not dropped one of
his old and unsavoury occupations. He plied all the
trades which he had plied before he got the Proving
only that he now had the Propinacya on the
back of them all. He had bought no fresh pearls
for his wife's cap, no new thread plait for his wife's
head, no slippers for himself. The solitary piece of
extravagance in which he had indulged, was contained
in that selvage-bag on the wall. Death is expensive
to a Jew who lives long ; and Aitzig having lived over
sixty years, had worn through two shrouds already.
He had undergone a mental struggle of great severity
before he bought his third : he had considered the
possibility of having the second darned and cleaned,
perhaps with a little silver embroidery added ; but in
the end he had succumbed. The idea of being buried

in a new and faultless Tales — a shroud which should
be high above all criticism of envious tongues, — this
idea was too tempting to be resisted. On the same day
that the Marszalek had first hinted at a new stroke of
business to be done, Aitzig had, on the strength of that
hint, indulged himself in a new shroud.

The fifth part, Pan ? " said Aitzig again.

I suppose so," answered Lucyan, with a touch of
impatience. To any other Jew it would have been the
twentieth or the fiftieth part ; but towards Aitzig his
position was precarious, and yet he dared employ no
other instrument but Aitzig alone. They had fought
a battle, of course, before they came to terms ; only
this time there had been no kicking out of the door,
and no dragging in again by the scruff of the neck ;
and though Lucyan had begun by offering the twentieth
part of the profit, he had been forced to close
at the fifth.

And the gracious Pan will give Aitzig a piece
of paper — just a little piece of paper — to say
that he promises this sum 1 " suggested the Jew,
insinuatingly.

Nonsense," said Lucyan. *' It will be time to talk
of that when the work is accomplished. There is
plenty to do first before you have earned your money.
What have you heard about the land-surveyor ? "

The Belgians are going to take a native engineer —

SO has Aitzig heard, — to survey the land once again,
and report."

Which engineer will that be ? Everything depends
on the man."

It might be old Hunski," said Aitzig, reflectively,
unless he has the trout worse than usual."

Old Hunski would never do," said Lucyan ;
he is a pattern of integrity. Who else is there,
Aitzig ? "

There is Mulskow yet, noble Pan, but he is obstinate,
and has a furious temper ; and there is Eey-
nadski, a red-haired gentleman with whiskers ; but he
is as sharp-nosed as a fox, and of a mistrustful nature.
Then there is Ainsi. He is not sharp-nosed; but
I fear. Pan, that even should his will be good, he will
make a mess of the thing, for he is stupid — Gottt und
die Welt, he is stupid ! "

A little stupidity would do no harm," remarked
Lucyan.

I know the man," said Aitzig, with a chuckle — " I
know the man to suit the noble Pan ; a little stupid,
a little heavy, a little awkward."

"And his soft point? What is it? Will it have
to be money again?" asked Lucyan, grudgingly.

Hi, hi ! " laughed Aitzig. " The noble Pan does
not like to take money from his pocket ; but the
noble Pan will be happy to hear that money would

not do it safely with that man. He is of a grateful
nature, a soft nature, that gentleman."

What will do it, then ? " asked Lucyan, ignoring
the implied taunt which he dared not resent.

Aitzig reflected deeply. " There is another way,"
he said. "Now, if the gracious Pan would tell the
gracious Panii to put on a pretty dress on the day
when that land-surveyor comes, and to laugh a little
(she has a beautiful laugh, the gracious Panii), and
make merry "

Ah, I see," said Lucyan, struck with the idea.
Very good. Is the man married or not ? "

Oh, is he not married ? " cackled Aitzig.

I understand. His wife is ugly ? "

'frightful!"

Bad-tempered ? "

A fury."

I understand," said Lucyan, again ; and he rubbed
his hands. " I will do my part, and you do yours.
See that no other man but this one is sent down to
survey. You can manage it, I suppose ? "

Aitzig will do his best," said the Jew ; " and even
if the wrong man starts," he added, reflectively, " the
wrong man need not arrive. Are there not wheels in
every carriage, and screw-nails in every wheel ? And
for what are screw-drivers unless to take them out ?
Hi, hi!"

CHAPTER VII.

PAY TWO TO MY Queen.

The Queen of Hearts she made some tarts,
All on a summer's day."

Nursery Rhyme.

Some weeks after the conversation last recorded, Kashmir,
having ridden over to Wowasulka, found Xenia
occupied in, what she called, making rose-jam — that is
to say, gathering roses in the garden, with the assistance
of a short-legged, long-faced, and tall-hatted man,
perfectly unknown to Kazimir.

In spite of many and excellent resolutions to the
contrary, this was by no means the first, or even the
second or the third time, that Kazimir had ridden this
way since the day of Wandusia's funeral. In fact, the
less that is said about Kazimir's resolutions at present
the better, as he himself had discovered — for he had
given up making any at all.

Xenia is busy with the rose-jam," said Madame
Torska, the elderly aunt, whom Kazimir encountered

alone in the drawing-room. She looked at him rather
nervously as she said it, and looked from him to the
door, as if weighing her chances of escape. Madame
Torska had never been able entirely to get over the
impression produced by Kazimir's first appearance
through the bushes on the eve of the wedding-day:
she had persisted ever since in treating him as a painful
subject. Besides, she had a rooted dislike to
young men in general — a distrust of the genus as a
whole — which perhaps was the reason of her liking
for Lucyan. For Lucyan was not, and never had
been, a young man in the true sense of the word.
He had no passion, no pride, no temper even ; he was
young, only because he happened to have passed no
more than twenty-eight years in the world.

What a pity ! " said Kazimir, when he heard of the
rose-jam ; for the idea not unnaturally suggested the
kitchen and steaming caldrons. Then, with forced
politeness (for she dreaded the fury of his temper),
Madame Torska asked him to be seated, and grew
nervous when he took a chair, which she considered
perilously near to her own; and she attempted to
keep up a little frigid conversation, although she
fixed her eye firmly on his sword, and held the paper-cutter
concealed under the table, for fear of a sudden
outbreak.

Do you not think it would be safer — better," she

corrected, hastily, for fear of irritating him — " if j'ou
were to join the others in the garden ? "

Kazimir, being only too delighted to hear that the
jam was being made in the garden, and not in the
kitchen, acted very promptly upon this hint ; and
entering the back-garden, where cabbages and beetroot
and rose-bushes grew, found, as has been said, Xenia
gathering roses, while a short-legged gentleman held
the basket for her.

The legs of the short-legged gentleman were very
short indeed ; the length of his face and of his hat,
taken together, must have quite come up to the height
of his lower members. He was freckled, he was bashful,
and he was more than moderately awkward ; for
every now and then the basket slipped from his hands,
and he made snatches after it, and failed to catch it,
and sometimes caught at his hostess's dress by mistake
; and stammered, and begged pardon, and panted,
and finally went down on his knees on the top of the
beet roots, and picked up the roses again, putting as
much gravel as roses back into the basket, in the
excess of his inconvenient zeal. Kazimir, watching
from a little distance, did not know whether to be
more provoked at the unknown individual's clumsiness,
or entranced at the sweet patience with which
Xenia bore it. She never lost her temper once.

You are not used to holding a basket," she laughed

with mock removal. " Do you never help your wife
when she makes rose-jam ? "

"She never makes rose-jam," said the unknown
gentleman's thick voice.

Dear me ! " Xenia was so struck with surprise at
the idea of the unknown gentleman's wife never making
rose-jam, that she was obliged to stand still in what
happened to be a particularly graceful attitude of surprise,
with one arm lifted above her head, as she was
pulling down a high rose-branch. " Dear me ! " she
said, with exquisite pity, ''do you mean to say that
you never get rose-jam at home ? "

No, nor anything as sweet," said her companion,
moodily.

Perhaps you have no roses in your garden," suggested
Xenia, beginning to recover from her surprise,
and breaking off the rose which she had stretched to
reach.

Plenty," said the short-legged man; " but they grow
nothing but thorns."

Xenia stuck the rose she had just broken off into
her hair. " How strange ! " she exclaimed, quite innocent
of any innuendo ; and at the idea of a rose-bush
which grew nothing but thorns, she indulged in a peal
of silvery laughter.

The peal of laughter was so very silvery, and the
pale-pink rose looked so well in her hair, that the

unfortunate gentleman of the short legs forgot once
more that he was holding a basket, and had to make
snatches after it again, and again to kneel down — on
the cabbages this time — and be reproved by charming
shakes of the head, and punished by brilliant smiles.

Kazimir, watching this scene and its variations, became
more and more puzzled, and also more and more
uneasy. Who could this individual be ? A gentleman
lie certainly was not. What could be the meaning of
his presence ? Why was Xenia making herself so very
agreeable to him ? " It is only in the nature of her
angelic goodness," said Kazimir to himself, unconsciously
excusing her ; " she is doing what she can to
entertain her husband's guest." But all the same, this
excessive amiability made him feel restless. It was
very nice and perfectly unobjectionable, of course,
when such amiability was directed towards himself,
for he was her brother-in-law ; but was it not possible
that in the very excess of her sweetness she might be
going further than was prudent with a stranger like
this ? It was not fair upon her ; how could Lucyan
leave her this heavy task ? Where was Lucyan ?

Lucyan was in another part of the garden, watering
his flowers. He could not possibly leave off the watering,
he explained to Kazimir ; Xenia was quite well
able to manage the guest for herself. Who was the
man ? Oh, he had come over to Tarajow on business ;

VOL. II. s

Lucyan believed he was one of those engineers who
were overrunning the country at present ; he was very
gauche, poor man. And then Lucyan had to make a
rush with the rake at Trappisto, who was preparing to
bury a stolen bone in the best flower-border. Trap-pistol,
being baffled in his project, returned whence he
had come, to the kitchen, where he devoted himself to
the sugar which Kobertine was preparing for the rose-jam
; for Libertine was busy with the less picturesque
part of the process. If there was one thing which
Trappisto objected to more than another, it was fasting.
Never, from the days of his earliest puppyhood,
had he been known to refuse anything which, by any
stretch of imagination, could be called eatable; and
now that he was growing somewhat dim about the
eye and somewhat white about the muzzle, his ruling
passion showed no sign of forsaking him. Bones or
crusts, sugar or potatoes, they all came alike, and all
were agreeable. For the rest, he was a dog of much
amiability, with a faint but perpetual wag of the tail,
like the well-meaning weak-minded smile which hovers
round the lips of over benevolent people. Sofar
his propensities were not to be called monastic ;
but, to judge from his grave-digging powers, he had
something of the trappist in him, all the same. It
was this grave-digging which had earned him Lucyan's
hatred ; and far down in Lucyan's heart there was

registered a vow that if ever he could do that dog a
bad turn, that dog should not escape without it.

Leaving Lucy an to rescue his pink and scarlet
geraniums, Kazimir went back to where Marcin was
sitting by himself. But ^larcin could give him no
information whatever as to who the short-legged man
might be, nor why he was here. Life was a great deal
too short, he explained, to ask after people's names :
he did not care who came, as long as he was not
asked to talk.

Marcin's hand was hanging over the arm of the
chair as he spoke ; and Kazimir, looking at it, was
struck all at once with the great resemblance it bore
to his mother's hand, as he had seen it last. There
was that same wasted and half-transparent appearance
which had so moved him then, and he could hear the
rings rattling against each other, when Marcin moved
in his chair. And yet Marcin had got over the fever,
had been pronounced convalescent weeks ago ; all the
doctors agreed on that point. He had always been
limp, and lazy, and strange ; and it was not easy to
trace the small degrees by which he was daily growing
limper, and glazier, and more strange.

When Kazimir had fumed for an hour in helpless
impatience, he had the satisfaction of seeing the short-legged
man putting down the basket, and taking out
his watch. What he saw on his watch seemed to

startle him a good deal, for he began with extraordinary
energy to hunt for his stick and gloves
among the cabbage - beds, during which process he
managed to tread into the basket, and kick out its
contents once more.

It was so kind of him to have helped — Kazimir
heard Xenia saying ; and really if it had not been for
him she did not know how she could have manasseh
that heavy basket ; and he must come back again
some day so as to taste the rose-jam he had helped to
make ; and then Lucyan, who had suddenly appeared
on the spot, insisted with apparently a last impulse
of hospitality on taking the visitor round the garden.
Kazimir saw them walk off together, in the direction
of the forest, and then standing still at the foot of the
rocky slope, gaze up it and point at different parts
with their sticks, and shrug their shoulders, and make
other various and incomprehensible gestures. Neither
would their conversation have been much more comprehensible,
had Kazimir heard it.

You think it can be managed, then?" said Lucyan,
cautiously, watching his companion with a side-glance.

I think it might be managed, possibly ; I do not
see any reason why it should not be managed."

"There must be no mention of my name in the
transactions, mind ; I cannot suffer that."

There need be no mention. Pan Bielinski j the

Company are not likely to question my report. They
don't care very much where the railway is started, as
long as it is started soon."

Does your survey end here ? "

"No, my survey ends at Lodniki. You know the
lady to whom Lodniki belongs, Pan Bielinski ? Do
you think there is any chance of her reconsidering her
resolution, and selling the estate after all ? The Company
would have found that arrangement most convenient
on the whole."

There is no chance whatever," said Lucyan, with
emphasis. " It is not even worth trying ; she is
a most extraordinarily obstinate woman, and she
imagines that she will get more money by refusing
to sell, and pocketing the payment for the railway
ground alone — should the railway pass that way."

Ah yes," repeated the other with a wink, " should
the railway pass that way;" and the short-legged man
gave a laugh and looked at Lucyan, and Lucy an looked
at the short-legged man and gave a responding laugh.

Yes, she is a most obstinate woman," said Lucyan
again ; " and besides, her temper is — well, not
exactly "

"Ah yes, not exactly good," finished the other
readily. " A sad thing, bad temper is, in a woman,"
he added with a melancholy shake of the head, for the
subject was a familiar one to him.

You would never guess that she was related to my
wife," said Lucyan, watching his companion carefully.
My wife, by the by, has quite set her heart on this
little plan of ours : she would be very much disappointed
if it came to nothing."

"She shall not be disappointed, if it lies in my
power to prevent it," said the short-legged man with
fervour, and then he took his leave ; and as he drove
off in the direction of his bad-tempered wife and his
ill-cooked supper, he thought what a pity it was that
there was in the world so little of that rose-jam which
he had been enjoying this afternoon; and he considered
in his mind what an agreeable day he had
passed, what a good dinner he had eaten, how pleasant
a man his host was, and what a beautiful woman
his hostess, and how glad he should be, could hebe
the means of obliging them in any way that was
possible.

Lucyan, having seen his guest off, returned to the
house, and shut himself into his private business-room,
for he had letters to write. About the same time
aunt Kobertine emerged from the kitchen, and having
with inexorable severity wheeled Marcin's chair
back into the house — for the air was growing cool —
disappeared again in the same direction. Kazimir,
who was standing a little on his dignity, and who did
not chose to look towards the rose-bushes, imagined

that lie was alone in the garden, until he heard his
name pronounced. " Kazirair ! "

He never could hear his name coming thus from
her lips without a thrill of mingled pain and joy; and
he never could pronounce her name without this same
sensation.

The call was obeyed at once, though he looked a
little stiffer than usual.

Will you not come and help me to pick the gravel
out of the roses ? " asked Xenia. " That poor stupid
man has put such a lot in by mistake."

Kazimir began to soften towards the unknown individual
as soon as he heard him called stupid. " What
is that gentlemen's name ? " he asked.

Oh, I don't know," said Xenia, innocently. " Lucyan
said that I was to make myself agreeable to him,
and so I did."

"Yes," thought Kazimir, "so she did." And he
applied himself rather gloomily to the gravel.

Why are you so sulky to-day ? " asked Xenia, after
a minute. "Are you in a bad humour? "

"Not now," said Kazimir, starting as their hands
touched for a moment in the basket.

But you were sulky before," persisted Xenia,
plunging her fingers into the rose-leaves. " I saw it
by your shoulders."

You were so busy," said Kazimir, still with the

faintest shade of stiffness, "that I don't think you
could have seen either me or my shoulders."

But I did ; and it is very rude of you to contradict
me, — and," pouted Xenia, with a quivering
lip, " I can't bear anybody to be angry with me
ever."

"I have never been angry with you in my life,"
said Kazimir, hotly : " yes, but I have once, only
once " — he bit his lip, regretting his imprudent words,
and afraid of having confused her. But Xenia did not
appear confused ; she went on playing with the rose-leaves
quite composedly.

Oh, you have been angry with me more than
once," she laughed, preparing to count on her fingers.
The first time was because I went to Krakow for the
end of the carnival ; don't you remember ? "

I r^biember quite well," said Kazimir, beginning
to lose all sight of prudence, and incautiously putting
his finger on the edged tool which lay so close to his
grasp. " I have been angry with yoU; and you have
been angry with me, — is that so ? "

Angry ? " repeated Xenia, doubtfully, for anger
was a sensation which lay outside the reach of her
power. " I don't think I was ever angry exactly ; but
I remember that I was provoked with you once."

"What about?"

About — about " — Xenia looked down, then looked

lip with a laugh — '' about a pretty widow with golden
hair."

Kazimir's face darkened. " Do you want me to deny
that again ? "

Why do you keep her dog, then ? " asked Xenia,
with a teasing smile.

Poor Trappisto ! " — and Kazimir stooped to stroke
the yellow head lifted towards him. " Nobody cares
for you, Trappisto, but me."

Oh, he is dirtying my dress ! " cried Xenia ;
please, send him away 1 What has become of the
pretty widow herself ? "

She married two years ago," said Kazimir, throwing
a stone after the retreating Trappisto. It was the
first piece of unkindness which Trappisto had ever experienced
at his master's hands ; and in the astonishment
it caused him, he stopped wagging his tail, and
stared back at Kazimir reproachfully.

Oh, she is married ! Then I shall allow you to
keep her dog ; — poor dog ! Do you think he would
like a lump of sugar? I shall give him one this
evening."

Then you believe me now ? "

Yes ; I am not going to be angry with you anymore,
and you must not be angry either about my
having gone to Krakow that time."

"Oh no," said Kazimir, with a sigh. He was a

little startled at the way in which she clung to that
dreaded subject.

I really could not help going," she explained, for
she evidently considered that having gone to Krakow
was a far graver offence than having married his
brother. " It was only on account of the ball in the
salt-mine, you know ; they only give one about once
in ten years."

'' I suppose so," said Kazimir, with his face turned
away. The word "salt-mine" coming from her lips
gave him somehow a painful shock.

It was a very good ball," said Xenia ; " what a
pity it was that you could not stay for it 1 "

"A great pity," he echoed, mechanically. This
sudden reserve seemed to displease her.

You must have forgotten all about that time," she
said, with a shrug. " Why do you never speak of the
salt-mine ^ "

Because you forbade me to mention it," he said,
in a tremulous voice, not trusting himself to look at
her yet.

Xenia broke into a rippling laugh.

But that was before I married, you know. There
is a great difference between a girl and a married
woman, — don't you think so ? "

Yes, a great difference," said Kazimir. It struck
him as so very strange that it should be she now who

was able to talk of the salt-mine with composure,
while it was he who shrank from the mere mention of
the word.

They had abandoned the rose-basket by this time,
and were sitting on one of the rustic benches which
adorned this back-garden.

"I have often wanted to ask you before," began
Xenia, orowinsf a little more embarrassed — but not so
embarrassed as to prevent the full play of her eyes, —
and beginning to pull forward one of her loose curls, —
I have often wanted to ask you whether you have
still got that blue camellia which I gave you off my
dress; or perhaps you have thrown it away long ago V

The crystal flower, you mean ? '* To Kazimir it
had been a " crystal flower" all these years ; he scarcely
recognised it under its technical name. " Yes, I have
it stilL"

Xenia looked relieved. " But — don't you think that
one ought to give those things back ? One always
does, I think, — and 1 have a coin of yours, you know."
She began slowly detaching a small coin from her
watch-chain.

Kazimir made no answer: but he drew out his
pocket-book and opened it. This crushed, flattened,
and shapeless mass, with nothing but blotches of gum
remaining to show where the crystal-powder had once
clung, — could this really be the same glistening flower

which had dazzled Kazimir's eyes with its beauty and
its brilliancy, that carnival - night in the salt-mine?
He had looked at it often since ; but never, even to
his eyes, had the blue camellia appeared so crushed, so
flattened, and so shapeless, as it did to-day. After all,
there was nothing to wonder at ; things must take
their natural course. The camellia-petals were of cotton
fabric of an inferior quality, and the poudre cristalline,
recommended by the ' Journal des Demoiselles,'
had been a rather cheap compound — for those were
Xenia's economical days, when, held under strict
guardianship, she believed herself to be poorer than
her cousin Vizia. The ball-dress had been copied in
the cheapest of materials, and the parure of camellias
had drifted long since into the hands of some old-clo'
Hebrew, — all except this one flower, which, treasured in
Kazimir's pocket-book, had survived till now. Kazimir's
pocket-book had a strap round it, and the camellia
was many-petalled ; therefore it was perfectly unreasonable
of him to expect that, after four years' time,
the camellia should emerge from the pocket-book as
fresh and as crisp as it had been when first it was laid
there, — it is only true gold or true stones that can resist
the rubbing of the world. And yet Kazimir was
conscious of this unreasonable disappointment to-day.
Dear me ! " said Xenia, with a laugh, "■ how ill you
have used that flower ! It is so spoilt now that you

won't mind giving it back. Look, the crystal is all
gone ! "

Yes, the crystal is all gone," he said after her ; but
it was at her that he looked, and not at the flower.

"And the coin, — you really want it back? It
would be better, I suppose, would it not ? " She held
it out towards him doubtfully, then withdrew it ; held
it out a little way again, blushed, laughed, glanced
at him under her lashes, and shrugged her shoulders,
with another laugh ; and in the middle of it all, Kashmir,
of a sudden, understood what it meant. She was
flirting with him, laying herself out for his admiration.
He had been slow in seeing it, and reluctant to see it ;
but he could be blind no longer. He was ready to kiss
the very ground she trod on, for she had been his ideal
of womanhood, — and now she was angling playfully
for his compliments ; every look of her eyes made him
thrill with delight, — and now she was darting him
coquettish glances, and laughing as she watched their
effect.

The shock of pain was so great that it took from
him for a moment all the sense of his surroundings.
never till now had he been so conscious of the change
in Xenia, — of the difference between the Xenia of now
and the Xenia of four years ago. She had hardened
without deepening, — she had lost the exquisite freshness
of mind and manner which had given the 

to her beauty. That germ of affectation,
that budding vanity, then only peeping out, had since
grown strong and firm in root. Even those tiny tricks
of manner, so entrancing in the unconscious girl — even
the shy toying with her curl, and half-pettish shrug of
her shoulder — had lost their charm. Her shyness had
been rubbed off long ago ; and yet she still toyed with
her curl, and still shrugged her shoulder, — perhaps
from force of habit, perhaps because she had found
out that it Vv^as becoming. But the effect was no
longer the same : it had hardened along with the rest.

Some, although not all of this, Kazimir recognised.
His idol was no longer of pure gold ; but his idol was
still so beautiful that its beauty held him a slave.
The woman he loved had faults — and to-day, for the
first time, he had recognised those faults ; but his love
was not shaken, or he thought it was not shaken.
He could forgive her even this. The pain of the
discovery he had made seemed only to help him to
realise more vividly the surprising force of his own
passion.

Plunged in a whirl of bewildering thoughts, he
started at the sound of Xenia's voice beside him.

Since we are giving back things," she began now,
a little nervously this time, it struck Kazimir, " don't
you think we ought to give back everything ? There
were those letters, you know "

We wrote no letters," said Kazimir, in surprise.

No, — but you wrote some to Lucy an, and Lucy an
wrote some to you."

Yes," said Kazimir, still puzzled.

Well, had you not better give them back ? "

If he wants them, of course ; but what can he
want them for ? "

I don't know ; he might want them, you see ; and
it is not only the letters, — there is also a paper which
he sent you once — something about the Propinacyas, I
think it was."

A copy of the lease," said Kazimir ; " is that what
you mean ? "

Yes, that was it, I think."

Did Lucyan tell you to ask me for these papers ? "

Xenia played with her watch-chain, and grew confused.
" Not exactly, rather ; I was not to say anything
about him. Lucyan said " she broke off,

hastily correcting her mistake, and looked nervously
about her.

Kazimir sat silent, puzzled, and a little suspicious.
He thought of the short-legged gentleman, and he
wondered whether Lucyan had also told her to make
herself agreeable to her brother-in-law. " She is as
transparent as crystal," he said to himself; but in
that same moment he remembered having once, a
little while ago, expressed this sentiment to Vizia, and

Yizia had answered him curtly, " She is as transparent
as shallow water." It was an unkind answer to have
given (Vizia had been ready to bite out her tongue the
moment after she had said it), and the remembrance of
it troubled Kazimir just now.

Lucyan shall have the papers," was all he said ;
but the vague suspicions which her strange request
had awakened were not at rest.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

L^7

3 0112 045853097

^'■■.•.'•^'■■rf!*^"'.V-0

^^^1

A NOVEL

E. D. Gerard

AUTHOR OF ' REATA : WHAT'S IN A NAME '

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. Il

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXII

All Rights reserved

CONTENTS OF THE Tried VOLUME,

PART II.— continued.)

CHAP.

Visit.

IX.

X.

XI.

XII.

XIII.

XIV.

XV.

XVI.

XVII.

XVIII.

XIX.

XX.

DISCARDED, .
ALL KNAVES, .
TAKING THE TRICK AND LOSING THE HONOUR,
PAY ONE TO THE KNAVE,
QUEEN AND KNAVE,
BETWEEN PARTNERS,
"REVANCHE,"

JANINA THROWS UP HER CARDS,
HIGH PLAY, .
A Ideal, .

CARDS BETRAYED,
WHICH CARD?
THE LAST TRICK,

PAGE

o
























XXI. COUNTING THE TRICKS, 1^^

XXII. Casimir REVOKES, 201

XXIII. HANDS AND HEARTS, 215

XXIV. AITZIG's SCORE, . . • • • .228

(CONTINUED.)

Chapter VIII.

DISCARDED.

Come not when I am dead
To drop thy foolish tears upon my grave."

—Tennyson.

Margin," said aunt Eobertine, " here is your soup."
She said it in a whisper as mysterious as though she
were saying to a prisoner, " Here are your chains,"
or to a paid assassin, " Here is the dagger."

Marcin was leaning back in his chair, with his eyes
closed, and his arms hanging limp beside him.

He did not seem to have heard his aunt's address.

Marcin," she said again, reluctantly — raising her
voice, " here is your soup."

There was no response and no movement,

He is asleep," said Eobertine ; and she stole down

the gravel walk on tiptoe, for his chair stood in the
garden, and took the soup to the kitchen fire to be
kept warm, holding the cup jealously covered the
whole time for fear of any indiscreet eye prying into
its contents and discovering the nature of the compound.
This falling asleep in his chair was a common
occurrence with Marcin now. He had been more
usually asleep than awake for weeks past; and the
difference between his sleeping and his waking state
had grown to be so very slight, that it was not easy to
distinguish the two. He had given up expressing any
wish, or apparently feeling any. Even the idea of
getting out of bed in the morning, or into bed in the
evening, seemed not to occur to him unless directly
suggested. He sat in his chair from morning to night
not reading, not speaking, not even listening to the
talk around him ; looking every day a little paler, a
little weaker, a little thinner, and falling asleep now
and then for ten and twenty minutes at a time.

On this occasion he slept longer. Libertine, peering
out of the kitchen door, saw no difference in the
position of the sleeping Marcin. It was a warm afternoon,
but the clouds were drifting overhead ; and
Eobertine looked up at them apprehensively, and
down again anxiously at her sleeping nephew. It
was certainly going to rain ; the swallows were flying
so low that they almost grazed Marcin's hair ; but the

swallows did not seem to disturb him in his sleep.
The gnats were humming loudly by his ear, but
neither did the gnats awake him. There was a distant
growl of thunder in the sky : Marcin slept on
and heard no thunder. Not even the big drops which
fell on his upturned face — the first drops of the storm
were cold enough or big enough to rouse him from
his dreams.

I must wheel him in asleep," said Libertine, as
she reached the chair and turned it rapidly towards
the house. She wheeled it on a few paces, then all
at once she stood still with a start, and remained thus,
standing immovable in the middle of the pathway,
quite forgetting the falling rain-drops. Her hand had
touched the back of Marcin's neck, and that touch
had made her start, for the spot was cold as ice. She
peered down at him with a gaze of horror, then with
an effort stretched out her hand again and touched
his — cold also and stiff; for, gathering courage, she
lifted it now, and it fell back heavy and rigid, and
swung helplessly beside him.

He was dead, and must have been dead for two
hours at least. It could not be called a sudden death,
this end that had come so gradually ; for he had faded
day by day before their eyes, and yet it brought with
it all the terror which belongs to sudden death. The
fever had given to his constitution a shock from

which it had never recovered. Like his mother, he
had seemed to rally from illness only to sink under
its after effects.

And so it came to pass that a second time this
summer a coffin was brought to the Wowasulka house,
and again there was a darkened room and wax-candles
dimly burning round a bed. But the wax-candles
were fewer this time, and there were no blooming
violet - wreaths, for the violets were past long ago.
The rather meagre bunches of roses — cut by Lucyan
from the branches where they would be least missed
were far from rivalling the memory of those violets.
Even that little life had left behind it a greater blank
than was left now. Marcin's life or Marcin's death
made so little difference to anybody, either good or
bad, there was no word either of praise or blame to
be pronounced in his memory.

The mourners watched around him in silence and
awe, scarcely can it be said in grief. How could they
honestly say that they wished he had lived, when the
expression of peaceful contentment on the dead man's
face seemed to be saying so distinctly that he was
glad he had died ? for it was much the clearest solution
of all difficulties, and the simplest way to avoid
all trouble, — if he could not have a quiet life, let
him at least have a quiet death ! There was a general
though unacknowledged feeling of relief when the

day of the funeral came, and the hour of the funeral
approached.

Are the screw-nails ready 1 " asked Lucyan, as
they stood round the open coffin. " Xenia, you had
better go away."

The screw-nails were ready; they were produced.
They were about to be put to their proper use, and
Xenia was just preparing to leave the room, when
there suddenly arose in the passage outside a strange
and unaccountable noise.

A woman's voice was heard in loud and vehement
expostulation with other voices. There were entreaties
and threats, remonstrances and replies : there
were stamps, and rustling, and banging of doors, and
every other variety of noise which, under the circumstances,
was possible.

At least half-a-dozen women must be forcing their
way in, thought the listeners in the darkened room ;
but in the same moment the closed door flew open
with a resounding crash, and there stood upon the
threshold the author of the commotion, having, to
every one's surprise, resolved herself into one woman
alone. Upon the shrouded room and the black-clothed
spectators this woman burst like a substantial flash
of lightning. Her scarlet petticoat seemed to flame
brighter than the candles, her cheeks were flushed to
as brilliant a red ; she was panting, she was covered

with dust from head to foot, aud her shawl had been
half torn off her shoulders in the struggle of forcing
her passage.

Where is he ? " she panted, standing still on the
threshold, and staring before her into the darkened
room, for the glare of daylight was still in her eyes.
Where is he ? " she said louder, as no one gave her
an answer. Then turning towards the bed, and seeing
that there lay nothing but a few crushed rose-heads,
she shuddered with such violence that the
whole room seemed to shudder with her. " Ah, he is
there ! " She had caught sight of the open coffin ; and
with a spring forward, and a shriek which rent the
ears of the bystanders, she flung herself on her knees
beside it, clutching at Marcin's cold hand, and overturning
two candlesticks in the action. The necessity
of stamping out the burning candles was the first
thing which brought the stupefied spectators back to
their senses. The whole incident had been so sudden
and so rapid, that as yet they had only stood and
stared in bewilderment. Was it possible that, after
all, that useless life had left a blank behind it, greater
than they could guess ?

Marcin ! " cried the sobbing woman on her knees —
Marcin ! why was I not sent for ? Why was I not
told ? Why did I not know ? You would not have
died if I had been with you ! Oh, it is unjust, cruel !

You were not meant to die. They let you go, because
they did not care to keep you ; but I — I want you
back again. Oh, Marcin ! "

She was rocking her body from side to side, as she
uttered her wild complaints ; groaning and beating her
breast, and covering the hand she held with resounding
kisses, until it seemed as though she would drag
the corpse out of the coffin.

This will not do," said Lucyan, sternly ; " this cannot
possibly go on."

A painful and distressing occurrence," said Libertine,
with gloomy indignation.

But who is she ? " asked Xenia, trembling in the
background.

The shock touched every one present as disagreeable
the dead man himself seemed to resent this violent
disturbance of his repose.

Leave me in peace ! " the look on his face appeared
to say.

Lucyan had stepped up to the woman already and
touched her on the shoulder. " You must leave this,"
he said, coldly. " The cofhn is to be closed."

Leave him ! Do you know who I am ? "

"Yes." For she had raised her face, as she put
the fierce question ; and Lucyan knew her to be the
apothecary's daughter.

And you imagine that I shall leave him ? "

I insist that you shall leave him."

Force me if you cau ! " She sprang to her feet and
stood in an attitude of defence, looking quite capable
of flying at Lucyan and grappling with him. " You
have no right to forbid me anything ; you were only
his brother, and I "

Enough of this," said Lucyan, with some vivacity ;
"we cannot have these sort of — delicate explanations
here. If you have anything to say "

I have something to say."

Come with me then." He took her by the arm and
drew her across the room towards another door. The
door opened and closed behind the two, and they
were alone together.

Janina sank on to a chair and sat there, facing
Lucyan, and panting for breath. And Lucyan stood
opposite to her, gazing at her flushed face, and reflecting
that his brother Marcin had shown rather good
taste while he lived. Janina's cheeks were flaming
still, and the violence of her gestures had brought her
hair down : it hung in a rough, tangled, but not by
any means unbecoming mass, down her neck and
back.

Although the Marszalek had made his exit from the
next room in what was apparently a burst of virtuous
indignation, the burst had subsided in a most curious
fashion as soon as the door was closed. He contemplated

the woman before him with an approvingly
critical eye ; the eye of a connoisseur, who has grown
practised with experience. It was with much the
same gaze that he was accustomed to contemplate
the pictures of pretty women which had once hung
on the wall of his room. He had taken them down
from the wall long ago ; for a Marszalek, and more so
a Marszalek who is a married man, requires to make
some sacrifices to his position, — but he kept them ina
drawer instead, which was less convenient, though
safer.

Compose yourself, my dear young lady," remarked
Lucyan, after a minute, seeing that the young lady
was very far from composing herself. His tone was
not in the least stern now.

Composure ? Calmness ? Resignation ? " she
broke out, shooting off the three words with the
suddenness of three rockets. " Don't dare to speak tome
of any of those hateful things. Why did you let
him die ? If I had but known that he was going to
die, when I saw him last week ! Ah, he was so tired
then ! he sent me away ; he said I made too much
noise. Oh, if I only could get him back, I should
never make any noise again — never in all my life 1 "
and she burst, as she said it, into a remarkably noisy
fit of tears. " I should be as quiet as a mouse," she
sobbed, getting up from her chair and stamping

violently about the room, in the excess of her excitement.


I loved him desperately," she exclaimed, through
the thick of her stormy tears.

I am sure of it," said Lucyan, in a tone of soothing
concession.

And he loved me desperately."

Lucyan said that he had no doubt of it, although it
was rather difficult to imagine Marcin having done
anything desperately.

Did he not tell you ? " she asked, standing still in
front of him.

It was not Marcin's way to tell things."

"I thought he might have told you," she said in
disappointment ; " he had half promised on the last
day I saw him."

No, he told me nothing, but "

"But what?"

"Well, I rather think I guessed."

You guessed ? " she questioned, breathlessly.
*what?"

"Since she will have plain speaking," thought
Lucyan, "let her have it." Then aloud — "That my
brother was your lover."

She broke into a brilliant smile through the midst
of her tears. " Of course he was my lover ; but he was
something else : guess — it is not difficult."

Lucy an shrugged his shoulders and shook his head,
as much as to say that he could not guess that riddle.

'' My husband ! " she burst out triumphantly. " He
was my husband : I was Marcin's wife."

The listener smiled and remained silent.

You did not guess that, did you ? "

"No, I did not."

And we were married four years ; have I not kept
the secret well ? "

"Most marvellously well."

It was very hard work to hold my tongue," she
went on, while the glow of childish exultation dried
up the tears on her cheek. " I made Marcin call me
by my real name every time he came to see me, and
I signed myself by it over and over again in my
Prayer-book, but I tore the page out and burnt it. I
was ready to burst out with it every time I met any
member of the family. If I had not given Marcin a
solemn promise to keep it secret, I should not have
been able to see the carriage pass with your wife in
it without calling out aloud, ' I am Madame Bielinska
as well as you ! ' " and Janina, carried away by the
thought of the triumph which that would have been,
actually burst out laughing, while the tears were still
on her cheek.

Will you not drink a glass of water, my dear Panna
Wronska ? " asked Lucyan, pouring out a tumblerful.

and holding it towards her ; " your nerves are a little
overstrained, I fancy."

Panii Bielinska," she corrected him, still laughing
hysterically, as she put out her hand towards the
water.

He was silent ; and looking up impatiently for his
answer, their eyes met full. The tumbler crashed to
the ground, and with a shriek she flew towards him.

You do not believe me ! " she cried. " I see you
do not believe that I was married ! "

Pray be calm."

Do you' believe that I was married?" she panted,
with flaming eyes.

I am not a child," said Lucyan, quietly.

You are a monster, then."

Indeed I am not. I quite agree with you in
the main ; you are perfectly right to keep to your
assertion."

It is not an assertion ; it is a fact."

'' No woman is bound to give anything but the best
account of herself," went on Lucyan, disregarding her
interruption. " It may amuse you to call yourself
Madame Bielinska, but" — with a shrugs" you can
scarcely expect other people to do so."

I not only expect, I shall insist on it," said Janina,
with a sudden dignity, which took him by surprise.
I was your brother's wife, and I am his widow."

You have no claim," answered Lucyan, quickly,
for her manner had struck him strangely. To do him
justice, up to this moment Lucyan had not believed
her story, taking for granted that her mind was unhinged
by grief. He had always looked upon his
brother Marcin as a fool, but he did not think that
Marcin could have been quite fool enough for this.
Now, however, the sudden assurance of Janina's tone
impressed him as genuine ; he was too keen a judge
of human nature not to see that she was speaking the
truth ; but, at the same time, he was too excellent a
tactician not to see that his own interest lay in keeping
up the disbelief. If Marcin had married her, so much
the worse for her ; he had no right to marry an apothecary's
daughter, and the apothecary's daughter had
no right to marry him ; she must suffer for her folly.
Therefore he answered quickly, " You have no claim."

I shall get my rights," said Janina ; for the word
claim " had aroused her practical instinct ; and the
practical instinct in her was so strong, that floods of
tears had not sufficed to drown it.

What do you mean by rights ? "

The name first, the money afterwards," said Janina,
bluntly.

Marcin left all his money to me," was Lucyan's
answer.

He did not ; he made no will."

He left it me by word of mouth."

Who says it ? "

I do."

And there is nothing but your word for it ? "

There is no one's word against it. Do you propose
to put up your word against mine ? " sneered Lucyan.

Of course I do ; a widow's rights are better than a
brother's."

'' Strange," said Lucyan, with another sneer, " that
you should come out with this wonderful story the
moment that Marcin is beyond contradicting it."

Contradicting it ! He was to have told it you
himself, if he had lived another week. This is how
it was : That time, four years ago, when I promised
Marcin to keep the secret, I made him give me another
promise in exchange. If ever we had," — she
hesitated for a moment, hanging her head and colouring
— then looking up straight again, she went on
boldly : " If ever we had the hope of a child, then
he would declare the marriage ; do you understand
? "

Lucyan slightly inclined his head to show that he
understood, but there was no sign on his face to show
that he believed.

Well," faltered Janina, " I have had to wait a lone
time ; but — but my child — our child will be born this
autumn."

Unfortunate ! " muttered Lucy an to himself, but
Janina did not hear him.

"You believe me now?" she pleaded, in a softened
tone. " You believe that my child will be a Bielinski ? "

Lucyan evaded her eye ; turning away, he shrugged
his shoulders in silence.

Why do you not answer ? "

'why do you force me to give you unpleasant
answers ? "

"Ah, you do not believe? You will not accept
me ? " she cried, with a return of her excitement.
"You shall be forced to do so all the same."

"I don't think so," said Lucyan.

I shall prove it."

How ? "

Why, by the marriage register, of course ; we were
married in the Tarajow church."

She had scarcely said the words when there shot
into her eyes a look of panic. A sudden terrible
thought had struck her, and the same thought had
struck Lucyan in the same moment; but to him it
was not terrible.

"The Tarajow church is burnt down," they both
said in the same breath, and they stood looking at
each other in silence, measuring each other with their
eyes. Lucyan was far too well trained to make a
vulgar display of the relief and the triumph which

VOL. III. B

that thought had brought him, but one flash of exultation
he could not suppress, and Janina saw that flash
in his eyes.

But there are other things' she cried wildly ;
there is the priest who married us."

Is that the priest who went mad two years ago ? "
asked Lucyan, calmly.

Yes, yes — but " She began to tremble, feeling

the ground slipping from under her feet. Up to this
moment, with all her excitement and indignation, she
had not really been alarmed ; she had not really
thought otherwise but that he should be forced intime
to bow to the truth of her story. Now only
did she begin to tremble.

And," went on Lucyan, " I suppose you have no
one but your father to support this — excuse me —
ridiculous story of a marriage?"

My father ! My father knew nothing of it. I
kept it even from him ; but there must be something
else ; there must be a way "

Of course there is a way. If you imagine that you
have any rights, and if you happen to have any money
to spend on a lawsuit — it must be plenty of money,
mind — try that way by all means."

Lucyan was smiling again by this time ; for from
the moment that he heard of a Eussian church, the
last shade of apprehension had vanished. He knew

well that, from the slovenliness of such a ceremony,
there need be no fear of witnesses, nor of legal
attestations.

I have no money — none at all ! " cried Janina, all
her short-lived dignity gone, and bursting into miserable
tears as she saw each support, at which in turn
she wildly grasped, crumbling under her hand. She
would not give up yet. It was impossible that this
monstrous wrong could be done. Convinced as she
was of the justice of her cause, it did not seem conceivable
that others should be blind to it. She
stormed, and sobbed, and protested, and Lucyan
looked on without flinching, watching the bright
crimson in her cheeks, and showing in his eyes how
becoming he thought it; humouring her, and professing
to soothe her ; neither agreeing nor contradicting
; goading her on to madness by his smile and by
his gaze.

Pray be calm, Panna Wronska," he said at last,
when the spectacle had begun to wear him, and he
laid his hand on her shoulder. She flung it off violently,
gasping for breath in her despair.

Do not dare to call me that ! Oh, but I will force
you to believe me ! I will swear by everything that
you hold holy — I will swear on the crucifix." She
glanced round as though in search of one.

Don't take the trouble, my dear child," said

Lucyan, with the slightest shrug in the world ; " such
ceremonies do not convince me."

Perhaps you do not believe in the crucifix ? "

Lucyan turned away with a second edition of the
shrug. " We are not here for discussing our religious
principles, are we ? "

Janina stood and stared at the man before her in
horror ; and Lucyan returned the stare with a gaze of
admiration which every moment grew more insolent.
She paled before it, instead of reddening. Slowly the
excitement began to fade from her face.

Ah, you are calming down," said Lucyan ; " that
is right. It would have been a pity to spoil your
pretty face with more tears. Don't you think so ? "

Yes," she said, with a sudden change of tone,
while a stony hardness began to settle over her features.
She drew a deep breath, setting her teeth with
an audible click, and all the time her eyes hung full
on Lucyan in a strained and penetrating gaze which
he could not understand.

You will go home now, will you not ? We have
nothing more to talk about."

And my child ? your brother's child ? " she asked,
heavily.

I regret the circumstance," was Lucyan's cool
answer. Janina did not appear to have heard him,
for she made no movement whatever. He drew a

little nearer, encouraged by this unexpected quiet.
You will dry those black eyes now, won't you ?
You are so good-looking, my dear child, that you will
always find plenty more men to tell you so. Did no
one ever tell you so but Marcin ? " He laughed.

No one," said Janina, slowly, uttering the words
with evident difficulty ; but she did not dry her eyes ;
she had not moved them yet from Lucyan's face.

Then they will tell you so soon, depend upon it."
He put his hand down again on her shoulder, and
this time she did not fling it off, she only shuddered
as it touched her, and closed her eyes for a moment as
if at a sickening sight.

I will go now," she said the instant after, speaking
with that same strange slow thickness of utterance
; and, without further warning, she turned quite
steadily on her heel and walked back the way she had
come.

Staring full and straight before her she went
through the room, not looking at any of the people
standing there ; not glancing even towards the coffin,
which now was closed. With a firm hand she opened
the door and closed it behind her. Her steps were
heard going down the passage. There was one more
distant bang of the door, and she was gone.

Lucy an stood where she had left him, and combed
his hair reflectively. " I suppose she will not drown

herself," he said, thinking of the dull stare of her eyes.
It would not do ; it would look ill." He reflected
for another moment, then laughed aloud. " Straw-fire,"
he muttered; " all straw-fire. Tell a woman she
is pretty, and the flames go out at once."

CHAPTER IX.

ALL KNAVES.

. She is his slave ; she has become
A thing I weep to speak," . . .

—Shelley.

When Kazimir said to Xenia, " Lucyan shall have the
papers," there had been suspicions in his mind ; and
when, shortly after that — it had been before Marcin's
death — he had brought a packet of papers to Lucyan,
he openly taxed his brother with some questions. Lucyan
was provoked, and somewhat alarmed ; he had
not meant the papers to come to him in this way ; the
whole thing should have been managed between Kashmir
and Xenia alone ; it was to have been taken in a
lighter, less solemn sense, — viewed from the sentimental,
not from the business-like point of view.
Xenia had certainly mistaken her instructions. But
he was equal to the occasion : there could scarcely
be any possible occasion to which Lucyan would not
be equal. When Kazimir questioned him about the

,■ ' ' '«

Propinacya, Lucyan voiTjint^fered every possible information.


Would you believe it ? " he said, with an access of
extra-frankness ; " the Propinacyas now pay me four
thousand florins a-year ! "

The assertion was perfectly true. " I had to put a
lot of money into them, of course," he added, " before
I could get so much out, — renovations, repairs, improvements,
and so on." This was true also : Lucyan
had newly whitewashed the Propinacya building within
the last year or two.

He was carelessly turning over the papers before him
as he spoke. " Old letters," he observed, while with
his sharp eye he marked that the paper he wanted
was not among them. " Nothing but old letters ; I
suppose they^can be burnt? You don't happen to
know, do you, where you have put that paper about
the Propinacya which I sent you once ? Looking over
old accounts the o^mv day, I found that I had mislaid
my own duplicate. ^I should have liked to copy it
again."

I looked for it," said Kazimir, " bit I did not find
it ; I remember now having torn it up long ago."

Ah ! torn up ? What an unbusiness-like habit to
tear up business papers ! Quelle Uourderie I Are you
quite sure you tore it up ? "

Quite sure."

\

Well, it is of no consequence. I merely wanted
to glance at it; — that Propinacya is a constant subject
of worry."

"It is Aitzig Majulik who holds it still?" asked
Kazimir.

Yes, it is Aitzig Majulik."

And what — I have thought of asking you this
before — what has become of the old Jew who used to
hold the lease ? "

Naftali Taubenkubel ? I believe he is gone to
the bad, — probably dead by this time."

Kazimir remembered that his mother had always
talked of Naftali Taubenkubel as of a faithful servant.
" Why was Naftali sent away ? " he asked.

"Eeally I cannot remember," said Lucyan, with a
yawn. " He did not suit, I suppose ; I have so much
to think of that I cannot waste reflection upon old
Jews. You have no notion what trouble an estate
like this gives. Don't you think the place is wonderfully
improved ? "

Most remarkably so."

It was very hard work, of course," said Lucyan,
with a sigh of great humility ; " but the drudgery of
work has always been my fate, as the brilliancy of
soldiery has always been yours, Kazio." It did not
often suit Lucyan to remember that he was the younger
brother ; but in spite of all that had passed, he was

able, at convenient moments, to play the part with an
admirable grace and dexterity. " Work alone, I confess,
would scarcely have done it; my wife's money
went a long way. Wowasulka would have been nothing
without a capital to fall back upon."

I suppose not," said Kazimir, doubtfully.

And between ourselves, my dear Kazimir," laughed
Lucyan, " Xenia would have been nothing without the
money either." Kazimir held his tongue, though his
heart burnt with indignation. " If ever you marry,"
said Lucyan, " take care that your wife's charms should
be backed up by something solid."

Kazimir turned and left the room in silence, for
he felt that it would not be prudent to stay ; and Lucyan,
as the door closed, drew a breath of relief. He
had long noted that remark to be made about Xenia's
fortune having been put into the estate. There would
be no danger now of Kazimir ever recurring to the
rest of those fourteen thousand florins which had never
been paid. Meanwhile Kazimir was fuming outside.
If Lucyan chose to speak disparagingly of his wife —
and this was not the first time that Kazimir had been
tortured by these sneering hints — what right had he
to rebel ? And yet he could not trust himself to stay
in the room for fear of knocking his brother down.
He had never got over his first repugnance to see
those two together ; he could not see Lucyan kiss his

wife, or as much as touch her hand, without feeling
the strong desire to rush between them. His blood
boiled at sight of the half-contemptuous admiration
with which Lucyan's eyes rested on her, and of the
scientifically calculating system after which her beauty
was displayed and traded upon ; for Lucyan guarded
her and cared for her as for a distinct portion of his
wealth. His wife was as much a part of his fortune
as his Propinacya or his corn-fields. To Kazimir it
was absolute pain to witness the position in which
she stood ; to mark the slavish obedience, the abject
humility, the nervous fear of the wife towards the
husband ; to see her flurry and her bewilderment, as,
continually stung by a sarcasm which she could not
understand, and tantalised by sneers which she did
not know how to explain, she trembled in helpless
dependence. It was slavery, it was degradation, it
was insult. The sight of it was unbearable to Kashmir,
and more unbearable still was it to see the way
in which she accepted her position. If she had rebelled
and refused obedience, Kazimir could have
borne his own lot better. He lived in daily expectation
of hearing that some catastrophe had taken place —
of being told that since yesterday Xenia had flown from
her husband's house; for he could not reconcile himself
to the thought that she should submit to his
treatment for Ions. It was intolerable to conceive

that she could accept her fate, and sink quietly down
to the level to which Lucyan was forcing her.

And yet by this spectacle Kazimir was tortured.
He was forced to stand by and watch her subjection
without the right to raise a finger in her defence ; he
was forced to see how the weak will bent without a
struggle before the strong one ; and he had noted the
flattered smile which would come to her face whenever
her master vouchsafed her a mark of favour.
Had her chains been of iron they might have oppressed
her; but her chains were of gold, and their
jingle pleased her. It was this spectacle that, of all
Kazimir's trials, was the greatest. The truth had
forced itself upon his eyes, though he preferred to
turn his eyes away. He would not even yet blame
her for the difference and the change in her ; he would
blame only Lucyan. But the difference was there. It
was the difference between the fresh and the wired
flower ; between the rosebud on the bush and the rose
which the gardener has forced open before its time, to
flaunt in the centre of an elaborate bouquet. Anyone
can open a rosebud ; you have only to blow upon
it long enough and uncurl the petals with your
fingers ; but no one can close it again. It was only
natural that Kazimir should turn his anger towards
the gardener who had forced open the rosebud, rather
than towards the rosebud which had been forced.

Taking these sentiments into consideration, it was
fortunate that Kazimir did not hear the words which
passed between the husband and wife that evening.

The paper is torn up," said Lucy an, " so there was
nothing to fear ; but it is no thanks to you that there
is no harm done. As it is," he muttered, " his suspicions
are aroused."

Listen, Xenia," he said to his wife ; " the only way
you can make up for your maladies, is by keeping
Kazimir in good humour. See, therefore, that you doit.
Do you understand ? "

Yes," said Xenia, slowly ; and for a minute she
gazed at her husband with a sort of helpless appeal in
her eyes. Something was alarming her, something
was oppressing her ; in a vague and undefined way
she was conscious of the danger into which she was
being pushed. In the midst of her faltering weakness
she would have kept herself straight if she could, only
she did not know how.

Well, is there anything you do not understand ? "
asked Lucyan, his attention for a moment arrested by
the look on his wife's face.

No, no, nothing." She shrank back at his tone ;
and Lucyan left the room.

He had commanded that the chestnuts should begot
out of the ashes for him ; and it never occurred to
him to consider whether the poor cat was getting its

paws burnt or not. The natural consequence followed.
Lucyan's commands were obeyed, and Kazimir was
kept in good humour. Good humour, however, is
scarcely the word to apply to his state of mind during
this long, delicious, and terrible summer. He made
no attempt to escape from the spell that was on him ;
he never stopped to analyse or reflect. What a difference
there was between the first period of his love and
the second ! Then it had all been joyous, peaceful,
and sweet ; now it was feverish and fierce— a restless
passion — one of those fires which burn all the higher
the faster they approach consummation.

Thus week followed upon week, and flower replaced
flower. The roses and carnations had long ago given
up their rights to geraniums and flowering nasturtiums;
and these, in their turn, were beginning to
decamp in favour of dahlias and asters. To all outward
appearance the life at Wowasulka was peaceful,
as became a family in double mourning. That stormy
episode at the funeral had been followed by no others;
the straw-fire had only been a straw-fire after all, and
had left no trace behind it.

Janina was another obstacle on Lucyan's path
which required to be trodden down; and if he felt
any regret in treading her down, it was only because
her eyes were so black and her cheeks so pink.

Of course she could not be a widow," had been

Xenia's verdict ; " she was not in mourning — she had a
red petticoat on ; " while, in aunt Eobertine's eyes, the
one extenuating circumstance about the case was the
general secrecy which seemed to have enveloped it.
There was nothing more heard about the disposal of
Marcin's money. In answer to a casual inquiry of
Kazimir's, Lucyan mentioned that Marcin's small fortune
had been left entirely to him (Lucyan). No one
inquired into the matter or disputed the claim, and
the Marszalek remained in peaceful possession.

There were few visits either made or received at
this time ; and if Aitzig Majulik often came to the
house on business, and if the short-legged gentleman
did occasionally get another dinner with rose-jam for
dessert, neither of these two incidents could be regarded
as dissipation. It was after one of these
dinners, and when the short-legged gentleman had
taken his departure, that Lucyan had another conversation
with his wife. What he told her on that occasion
took her entirely by surprise.

But won't the smoke be very disagreeable ? " she
timidly objected.

That smoke is worth more than gold to us," said
Lucyan. " You will not object to having a little more
money to spend, will you ? "

Oh no ; but," — a thought struck her, — " how will
Vizia like it ? She has often told me "

I cannot help Vizia," answered Lucyan, coldly.
Of course she will not like it."

Oh, Lucyan I Poor Yizia 1 I am so sorry for her.
She was so kind to me always ; she took such care of
me when I was little. Can't you do anything for her?
Is it too late to change it now ? "

Much too late, even if I wanted to change it. You
don't mean to say that you are crying, child ? Who
knows whether we may not be able now to spend the
carnival in Lwow ? '\

Do you think so ? " asked Xenia, doubtfully,
checking her tears for a moment to listen.

It would not be impossible ; and I have thought
of an opera-box."

Xenia dried her eyes. " Oh yes, I should like
that ; and perhaps," with a brilliant idea, " we can
take Yizia with us to the opera ? Don't you think so,
Lucyan ? "

Perhaps, if she cares to go," said Lucyan ; and
putting on his hat, he walked out into the garden.

He walked right through it to the end which bordered
on the forest, and having reached the bottom of
the slope, he stood looking up at the mass of rhododendron
and Cyrus japonica bushes which he himself
had planted there among the scattered rocks. The
road wound up the slope, plunging right into the
forest above ; and to the right and to the left of it,

Lucyan's petted bushes stood. The trees of the forest-edge
were beginning to turn yellow ; but Lucyan's
rocky shrubbery, untouched by autumn, climbed the
hillside, cold, fresh, and ever green. Lucyan contemplated
it with loving eyes, and with a pang of regret at
his heart. He had placed each shrub and guided each
ivy-trail with tender fingers ; he had clothed the tall
double rock, which he called his " twins," in its cloak
of soft green drapery — had crowned it himself with
that crest of waving fern ; and now he was about to
tear off the cloak and strike down the crest. He felt
at this moment like a painter who is forced to destroy
the picture he has painted. But the picture must be
destroyed. He recognised the necessity; he allowed
himself no more than one sigh of regret before he set
to work to spoil his shrubbery, by transplanting each
shrub in turn to a farther part of the garden, gradually
clothing the slope, and leaving it bare and rocky as
it had been in former days. October is the usual
month for such transplanting operations ; and the
reasons which prompted Lucyan to undertake them so
early in September, must have been others than those
advocated in the pages of the ' Florist's Guide.'

It was not of the ' Florist's Guide ' that he was

thinking, as he worked on steadily at his shrubs ; and

the smile which occasionally played round his lips

had nothing to do with his rhododendrons or Cyrus

VOL. Il c

japonica. He worked on late until the evening, until
the sun had set ; and just about the time that he was
laying down his tools, over at Tarajow the door of the
synagogue was opening, and pouring out of it there
was a long black stream of dark-robed figures. There
were some of them that were clothed in the thinnest
of woollen stuffs ; there were some that wore caps of
costly fur, like monstrous caterpillars curled around
their heads, and others on whose caps there remained
but a few mangy hairs to tell of the fur that had
been; but all were alike black, and all were solemn
of mien, for the Szdbas was just over, and they were
coming straight from their devotions.

The black stream, flowing towards the Place, began
to break up into small black pools. Knots of speakers
were scattered about ; a nasal gabble rose and swelled
through the air. Skinny necks craned, and sunken
eyes glistening, betrayed the keen interest of the topic
discussed. The vultures had pounced back upon the
carrion which they had been forced to drop at the
door of the house of prayer. They were pecking at it,
worrying it, turning it over and over to see where there
was yet another mouthful to be gained.

Eighty per cent," says an old Jew, in satin as
thick as a board, and with a beard that reaches his
waist. " Eighty per cent — fair conditions, very fair
conditions indeed''

I would not have closed at any others," answered
a second, who might have sat for a model of all the
three patriarchs.

Does she guess what is coming ? " asks a third.

She guesses nothing ; but I have seen it coming
long ago. Many a time has she sent for me and said,
Moses Finsterbusch, I must have more money ; ' and
I have said to myself, ' Moses Finsterbusch, open your
money-bag and put in your hand ; for, let her waste as
she likes, will not those fields and that forest give
you back your money ten and twenty fold ? ' Yes ; I
have seen it coming fast."

It will be as fair a case of ruin as I have seen for
many a day ; a pretty case, a pretty case indeed ! "

"And an exceptional case," laughs another Jew,
softly ; " we do not often get a woman by herself. A
brother or a husband might have spoiled much, but
she has no brother; no, and no husband either — nor
will she get one."

A cackling chorus greeted the delicate joke, and
the Jews drew to a closer circle, and fell to whispering
amongst themselves rubbing their horny hands together
— their vulture-eyes shining with cruel greed.

CHAPTER X.

TAKING THE TRICK AND LOSING THE HONOUR.

No stroke,

No keenest, deadliest shaft of adverse fate
Can make the generous plaster quite despair."

Whitehead.

Vizir awoke one morning and looked out of the
window. It was so early still that a faint white mist
hung over the landscape. That look out of the window,
as the first thing on awaking, had become so much a
habit with her as to be quite mechanical.

To-day she rubbed her eyes and looked again ; there
seemed to be something missing in the landscape, —
something gone that should have been there. It might
be the effect of the mist, or it might be that she was
still rather dazed with sleep. Surely between those
two tree-stumps there used to stand a white post?
But rubbing her eyes did no good ; and the mist was
not in fault either, for the mist was slowly clearing
off, and no white post stood between the tree-stumps.

Neither was this post alone missing; three or for
others had always been within range of the windows,
and now they were all gone. No, not all ; Vizia could
just catch a glimpse of the last within sight, but as
she was looking she saw it shake and slowly fall.

It looked like witchcraft, and it felt like a nightmare.
There must be some mistake, and there must
be an explanation of the mistake to be had for the
asking. With an uneasy sense of disaster impending,
Vizia hastily dressed and walked out. Lower and
lower did her heart sink as she advanced. It was all
becoming less like witchcraft, and more like a dreadful
waking reality. There were the very holes in the
earth, the empty sockets whence the posts had been
wrenched, and there, further on, stood a cart, and upon
it a heap of those same posts ; while alongside, two
men were engaged in uprooting another.

They must be taking them up because the railway
is going to be begun at once," said Vizia, resolutely ;
but although she repeated this conviction several
times over, and said it aloud even to make it sound
more plausible, yet the words did not encourage her
as they ought. " I am sure it is that," she said to
herself; "but I will ask those men, just to be quite
certain."

The men were common peasants, just capable of
giving an intelligible answer.

When was the railway to be begun ? They did not
know ; they were not quite sure that they knew what
a railway was. They had been told to knock in these
posts last spring, and they had done so ; and now
they had been told to knock them out again, and
they were doing so equally. That was all they
knew, and all they cared.

Vizia returned to the house as wise as she had left
it. But all hope of peace was gone for that day. It
was useless to try to keep her thoughts from the white
posts ; it was impossible to fix them upon any of her
household duties for more than five minutes at a time.
She walked restlessly from one window to the other ;
she opened books and closed them again, after having
held them for a short time upside-down in her hand ;
she began writing letters, and broke off half-way down
the first page, — until at length, having tried to eat her
dinner, and finding it impossible to get beyond the
soup, she resolved to drive over to Wowasulka at once.
It was hardly likely that they should know more about
the matter than she did ; but it was a chance at least,
and she would try it.

When she reached Wowasulka, Xenia was not in
the house; and going out in search of her, she caught
sight at once of a group among the rocks of the devastated
shrubbery. Lucyan was busy there with the
last of his shrubs ; and Xenia, sitting upon a piece of

flat rock, was watching him. Kazimir was there too ;
and in the background there lingered Aitzig Majulik,
who had come there upon some business-errand (the
factor was frequently seen about the place in these
days, and always upon some indefinite business-errand),
and who was waiting until it should please the 
to attend to him.

As Vizia slowly walked along the gravel-path, she
could see that Xenia was looking up at Kazimir, talking
to him, and smiling at him. Then it appeared
that her eyes had fallen on Vizia, — for she ceased her
talk, and rose from her seat. But she did not comedown
the road to meet her cousin, as Vizia had expected:
she stood for a moment irresolute, and then
she turned in another direction, and went off by a path
through the trees.

*' Surely she must have seen me ! " thought Vizia,
with a sinking" at her heart. " Can Xenia want to
avoid me?" but she kept steadily on her way upwards,
resolved to know her fate.

"Good evening," said Kazimir, coming a step towards
her, with welcome on his face.

"Good evening," said Lucyan ; but he scarcely
raised his eyes to her as he said it, and instantly he
bent them on his shrubs again.

Vizia had not meant to expose, without preparation,
the real motive of her visit ; but there was something

in Lucyan's look, and there were thoughts awakened
by Xenia's unexplained flight, which made it impossible
for her to make even a pretence at conventional
talk.

They have taken away the white posts at Lodniki,"
she said, without either preface or preamble.

No one gave any answer. Lucyan bent lower over
his work ; and Kazimir, struck by her gaze, looked inquiringly
towards his brother.

They have taken away my white posts," said Vizia
again, and more distinctly this time.

Really ? " said Lucyan, forced this time, in common
politeness, to raise his head and look at her.

Yes, really ; and I cannot find out anything about
the railway."

I daresay you will hear about it soon ; " and Lucyan,
as he said it, chopped, in a rather aimless fashion,
at a rhododendron root.

Do you know anything about it ? "

Lucyan met her steady eyes, and could answer
nothing but "Yes."

Has the line been changed then ? "

I believe it has been changed."

It is to be the other line ? "

Yes, it is to be another line."

"The Bruszow line?"

No," said Lucyan ,• " not the Bruszow line."

He was vainly striving at his habitual calmness.
He had looked forward to this moment as to a moment
of enjoyment — a moment of satisfied revenge.
It would be so pleasant, he had thought, to ruin the
woman who hated him ; but it was not so pleasant to
tell the woman that she was ruined. Somebody else
should have told it her, not he. He wished for no
such coarse-flavoured satisfaction. And yet he was
obliged to look at her, and answer her : her steady
gaze was not to be evaded. Stow that the moment
was come, the invincible Lucyan felt smaller than he
had ever felt in his life before ; and the irresistible
conviction oppressed him that he looked smaller too, —
smaller a great deal than the woman whom he had
helped to ruin.

Not the Bruszow line ? " asked Vizia.

No."

But you know which line it is ? "

Yes," said Lucyan, "I do ; " and he compelled
himself to return her gaze, feeling at that moment as
if he could almost have despised himself for not being
able to do so quietly ; for there was no small cowardice
about him, however much of large villany. " The Belgian
Company has decided to make the line of railway
pass here."

'' Here ? " repeated Vizia, not quite understanding.
Do you mean here, through Wowasulka ? "

"Yes, exactly" — Lucyan gave an uneasy laugh —
it is to pass by here, — the very spot we are standing
on."

I understand," said Vizia, after a short pause ; " I
understand everything now."

These will have all to be cleared out of the way,"
explained Lucyan, speaking rather quickly, — " they
are all going to be blasted ; " and he struck the rock
beside him with the spade he held. The details of the
matter were pleasant to dwell upon than the matter
itself The moment was an agreeable one to nobody,
except perhaps Aitzig Majulik, who, creeping a little
nearer in the heat of his interest, was gazing with all
his eyes, and listening with all his ears.

Through Wowasulka ? Yes, I understand," said
Vizia, quite calmly. " Then I am ruined." She did
not falter or turn pale, for she felt a great deal quieter
now than she had felt in the morning.

''• Gottt und die Welt'' murmured Aitzig Majulik,
they are telling her that she is ruined, and she does
not weep ; they are telling her that she has lost all
her money, and she does not scream, nor tear out her
hair, nor rend her garments. Gottt und die Welt ! but
that woman is strong."

I am ruined," she said again, without flinching,
proclaiming her ruin almost as proudly as she might
have proclaimed a triumph ; for hers was one of those

natures which fear a danger only so long as it is
uncertain, and dread only the enemy who is hidden.

I advised you to sell the estate," remarked Lucyan,
but not with his usual assurance.

Vizia gave him no answer but a look of cold contempt,
and then there followed a painful pause between
them.

Muttering something about looking for Xenia, Lucyan
turned after that minute, and walked slowly
away. It was like leaving her master of the field ;
but he could stand the contempt of her gaze no longer.
He positively shank away among the rocks, a defeated
rather than a victorious man. His ace of trumps
which, peeping from the pack, had appeared to be
such a brilliantly painted card, now that it was thrown
on the table, had shrunk to a wretched scrap of daubed
pasteboard.

I am going now," said Vizia, looking round her
with eyes that were a little dazed. " I am going
home." She had made two steps down the path when
some one was beside her. It was Kazimir, and he
was looking at her with a mixture of pity and indignation
on his face. During the last minutes he had
stood a silent and puzzled spectator, not able to guess
at more than half the truth, but suspecting that there
was foul play somewhere. The only thing quite clear
to him was Yizia's ruin ; and Vizia, being ruined,

became, of course; of much greater interest in his eyes
than Vizia in prosperity.

Do not go yet," he said, as she stopped on the
path. " Is this true, then ? You are ruined ? "

Yes, it is quite true."

And the railway would have helped you ? "

It would have saved me."

They were both as unguarded as though they had
been alone. Neither of them was collected enough to
remember that Aitzig Majulik, hovering among the
rocks close at hand, could hear every word that they
said.

And can nothing save you now ? "

Nothing." She leant against the stone beside her,
and for a moment she pressed her hand tightly across
her eyes ; for she felt strangely giddy just now, as the
dying traveller feels in the desert when the vultures
hover around him, hardly waiting to swoop till his
last breath shall be drawn. After a minute she looked
up again. " I wonder whether I can work," she said.
I could cut grass or draw water, I think, for I am
very strong." She looked down at her hands. They
were not hands to be compared to those frail morsels
of loveliness which Xenia called her hands, but they
were well shaped and ivory-white.

It cannot be so bad as that," broke out Kazimir,
indignant against fate, and against Lucy an, and against

the arrangements of the world in general. " You cannot
be without a home while there is your cousin's
house."

My cousin's house is your brother's," said Yizia.
"Do you see that woman over there in that potato-field
? What is she doing ? "

Digging up potatoes, I think."

'well, I would rather dig up potatoes just like
that all the year round, than take refuge in your
brother's house."

It did not occur to either of them that potatoes are
not to be dug up all the year round. Indeed Kazimir
knew so very little about potatoes, that, even in a
calmer moment, the idea would have failed to strike
him as strange. He stood silent, in very shame that
he could say no word in his brother's defence. He
was forced so thoroughly to sympathise with the sentiments
which made her scorn the idea of living in his
brother's house. " A few years ago it was to have
been my house," he said aloud, half musing. " Would
you have refused its hospitality then ? "

"I — I don't know," she said, with averted face.
"Don't ask me."

This was more cruel than the cruelest thing he had
yet said to her. In the face of this kindness she
began to tremble for her dignity.

You dislike taking help ? "

Yes ; and if your brother offered it I should not
take it."

And if I offered it ? "

You ? " She turned her head, and for a moment
an angry answer burnt on her lips. The idea of
taking help from him, perhaps money from him, was
unbearable to her pride. But then she met his look,
and she saw that he had said it in such perfect good
faith, and with such perfect simplicity, that her pride
could not fail to be disarmed. Against her will she
began to soften and to melt. " From you ? " she faltered,
— " yes ; from you I might have taken it."

But I have nothing to give," said Kazimir, with
rueful regret; "we are both in the same boat, are
we not?" And then those two stood and looked
at each other for a moment helplessly — those two
neighbours that had been beggared in the same game
of cards.

Then is there nothing that I can do for you ? "
asked Kazimir, breaking the silence.

No, nothing — nothing at all."

Can I not take you home at least ? "

No, I had rather not. You can do nothing but
leave me alone." •

But not now, this minute ? "

Yes, this minute. I — I would rather be left alone
at once ; " and Vizia put out her hand to motion him

away. She could bear this terrible kindness no longer.
If you wish to do me a favour, you will go."

He went away instantly, though he found her conduct
inexplicable. He did not turn his head once,
but he puzzled over the shortness of her manner, and
he puzzled still more over the look that had been in
lier eyes when she said that from him she might have
taken help. That look troubled him and made him
wonder ; but he was not able quite yet to fathom its
meaning nor sound its depth. Nothing to give ! Kashmir
honestly believed that he had nothing to give.
He did not know that he had something to give that
would be more precious to Vizia than all the wide
world would be.

Vizia turned and walked a few paces in the other
direction, then, stopping abruptly, her courage seemed
to break down ; for she began to cry.

That is not the railway, and not the ruin," said
Aitzig Majulik to himself, as he cowered in the convenient
cleft which the two twin rocks afforded him.
That woman's heart is broken."

The look in her eyes which had so puzzled Kazimir
had not puzzled Aitzig Majulik at all. He was as
good a judge of the symptoms of love as he was of the
value of a left-off' coat, and he was as well able to estimate
its strength as he was capable of guessing at the
probable number of feathers on a live duck's back,

and measuring their weight by his eye alone. Personal
experience had not guided him here — for no
orthodox Polish Jew has time to fall in love — but as
an article of trade, the passion had come largely under
his notice, and had proved quite as remunerative as
rags or feathers.

She did not cry," reflected Aitzig, " when they told
her that she was ruined" (if she had cried Aitzig
would have esteemed her more) ; " she did not weep
over her money and her fields ; and now she is crying
because of a man's words ; and he is a man who can
make her neither rich nor poor, who cannot even lend
her money ? Gottt und die Welt ! but that woman is
weak !" It was a pitiful spectacle to Aitzig Majulik,
but it was a perfectly clear one. His judgment was
not at fault for a moment. " That woman's heart is
broken," he said ; and issuing from his rocky hiding-place,
he sat down on a flat stone-block, and proceeded
to think out the matter. Every broken article which
he had come across in his life had been made to yield
to him some small percentage of gain. The question
in his mind was now, how much could he make out
of a broken heart ?

He thought and thought, and knit his shaggy brows,
and gnawed at his dirty fingers, and could reach no
issue. For all his thinking, he was not able to arrive
at any bargain to be immediately concluded. The

broken heart must be put aside for the present.
At home, in Aitzig Majulik's dwelling, there was a
dark and dingy closet, with several worm-eaten shelves.
At the bottom of that closet there stood broken chairs,
and wheels, and bird-cages, and on the shelves were
ranged broken bottles and boxes, stringless violins,
and battered candlesticks. They were none of them
forgotten, but they were all standing there waiting
each for its opportunity in life. It was into a closet
very like this, if less tangible, that Aitzig for the
present stowed away Yizia's broken heart.

VOL. III. f D

w

^OF ILL. , ,«

Chapter XL

PAY ONE TO THE KNAVE.

I am not in the giving vein to-day."

—King Richard III.

Lucian had thrown away his old pocket-comb and
bought a new one in its stead. It had been a faithful
friend that old comb, and a close companion for years
past. Many a brilliant idea had it combed into his
head, and from many a puzzle and a worry had it
combed him out. But now the ivory had turned yellow,
and the stem was splitting. It had grown into
a decrepit and toothless old servant whose serving-days
are over. To use a thing so long as it can be
used, getting all the good out of it that can be got,
and then to throw it aside without a pang, belonged to
the very essence of Lucyan's nature ; and the old
comb, which had grown yellow in his service, was
cast ruthlessly on the dunghill, from whence Aitzig
picked it out next day as a thing by no means to be
despised. The new comb had severe work before it,

and therefore it was that Lucyan had chosen it extra
large and strong, of smooth thick ivory, and with a
case into which it neatly fitted. The stress of brain-work
indeed was so heavy at present, and had been
so heavy lately, that its weight had much accelerated
the old servant's collapse.

And not to the servant only, but to the master far
more, had the last few months been a strain and a
trial. Throughout all the summer he had been working
his way towards one end, and he had reached his
object now, but it had been no easy matter. It had
required thought, it had required tact, it had required
some money, too, before he could attain the double
object of revenging himself on Vizia and realising the
large sum which the railway-ground would directly
pay him. Above all, it had required Aitzig Majulik.
He would most certainly have failed without Aitzig
Majulik to guide his craft through the labyrinth of
unclean channels which alone could land him on the
desired shore. He had succeeded in his object perfectly.
The neighbourhood was surprised by the announcement
that the railway-line was to pass through
Wowasulka ; but the neighbourhood never dreamed
that the Marszalek had played anything but a passive
part in the matter. No suspicion of underhand intriguing
and plotting was afloat, ^f the Marszalek had
looked rather thin and careworn lately, there were

plenty of reasons for explaining that. The loss of his
only child, the heiress to his fortune, would have
amply explained it by itself.

The object was gained : the shore was reached, and
yet Lucyan looked as careworn as before. During
that passage over those muddy and somewhat perilous
waters, he had been forced into a closer and more intimate
contact with his repulsive steersman than ever
before. The Jev/'s grotesque peculiarities were a constant
trial to Lucyan's fastidious taste, and never had
they been pressed upon his notice as now. The growing
familiarity, the false humility, and the leering
impertinence which it covered, had daily been becoming
more odious as well as more distinct.

There was in every one of Aitzig's glances a sharp
suspicion, ever on the watch ; for Aitzig, knowing himself
to be hated and feared by the master whom he
had served too well, hated and feared that master in
an equal degree : and reading that fear in the Jew's
eyes under the shield of his abject humility, and
through the midst of his half-hidden insolence, Lucyan's
own fear caught fire again, and scorched him
with its flames.

Indeed he was not himself in those days, or ho
would have had no difficulty in shaking off these
morbid sensations. *The strain had told up(>n him,
and his nerves were shaken. It is only a robust

organisation which can bear such a strain without
feeling it, and Lucyan's organisation belonged to the
delicate order rather than to the robust. Precisely
those nerves which are the most keen and sensitive,
are the most easily unstrung when once they have
reached the limits of their endurance. Lucyan tried
stimulants and tried exercise without having succeeded
in regaining the tone of his constitution. His sleep
became broken and his days restless, while his appetite
began to forsake him entirely. So much had he got
to hate the sight of Aitzig, that he had fallen into the
habit of listening with a sort of nervous apprehension
for the sound of the factor's step. The very smell of
garlic had grown loathsome to him beyond power of
expression. Aitzig was the one obstacle in his path
which he had not been able to tread down, which he
dared not tread down for fear of tripping over it and
breaking his neck.

But there was another reason now, and a mighty
one for him, which made him fear the sound of Ait-zig's
step. Whenever Aitzig entered the house now,
whether it were morning or evening, in rain or in
sunshine, it was always to press on one point that
he came.

The Belgian Company had agreed to pay down to
Lucyan 'thirty thousand florins for the railway-ground
and station-house which was to stand within the

Wowasulka estate. It was a high sum; but it had
been Aitzig Majulik's interest to have the ground
taxed high, and he had succeeded in having it overtaxed.
The money had been paid down, as arranged,
in the most above-board and business-like fashion
possible ; and the moment when the crisp bank-notes
were handed to him by the plenipotentiary of the
Freres Longuebourse, was to Lucyan, in the midst of
his worries, a moment of the most exquisite enjoyment
— perhaps, on the whole, the happiest moment in
his life. The sight and sound of money had always
had a strong influence upon him ; and it was an influence
which had grown incalculably stronger with
years ; for gold is like a poisoned water, which never
abates a man's thirst, but makes him thirstier the
more he drinks of it.

The bank-notes were clean and crisp, and Lucyan,
when he was alone again, gazed at them in a sort of
rapture. But then there arose the dreadful thought :
It is not all mine ; the fifth part has been promised
to Aitzig Majulik." The fifth part of thirty thousand
is six thousand. Six thousand whole florins ! Was
it a wonder if he hated the Jew ? Was it a wonder if,
now that the object was gained, he almost succeeded
in persuading himself that he could have gained it
without Aitzig's help ? Was it a wonder if he put off
the evil moment from day to day and from week to

week ? It would have to come some day, lie knew,
but with all his power he would drag out the time.
It would be such a wrench to separate those brotherly
bank-notes ; it would be such a pity to break into the
round sum of thirty. Twenty-four thousand sounded
so much less complete ; there was not the same satisfactory
neatness about it. And yet the evil day would
come. Aitzig, if driven to extremes, had ways and
means at his command. Fortunately, thought Lucyan,
the term for the Propinacya lease was over. It was
perhaps not likely, for many reasons, that Aitzig would
have dared to refuse payment ; but yet it was as well
that the term should be over. Perhaps also there
hovered on Lucyan's mind a vague, indistinct, and unformed
hope. Aitzig was an old man — a man not
many years short of seventy ; how, if it were decreed
that he should be gathered presently to his forefathers
? The thirty thousand need not be separated
then.

These thoughts, and such as these, were in Lucyan's
mind, as he sat at his writing-table, passing his banknotes
in review. He had done so dozens of times
before, but it was a charm which ever grew ; they
looked so well-packed and so full of meaning in their
business-like packets of a hundred florins each ; each
florin stared at him so expressively as he handled it.
But he was not half through his review, when he

paused in the counting, and raised his head to listen.
There was a step outside — a shambling, shuffling step.
That was the step he dreaded. Aitzig Majulik was
coming again to press him for the money. He must
brace himself anew for one of those scenes which had
begun to weary and disgust him, and to which he yet
could not quite resolve himself to put a stop.

Quickly he swept the bank-notes aside and locked
them away out of sight. Lucyan knew better than tolet
the Jew's eyes rest on the notes exposed; judging
from himself, he was certain that their direct influence
must be fatal.

Aitzig, creeping in at the door, did not find Lucyan
at the writing-table; he found him pacing the floor
with a studiously slow step, passing the comb, the new
ivory comb, through his hair.

What have you come for, Aitzig ? " asked Lucyan,
standing still.

Aitzig, closing the door and stealing forward, gave
a hideous giggle. " The noble Pan knows what I have
come for, but it pleases the noble Pan to pretend that
he does not know."

What do you want ? "

If it gives any amusement to the gracious gentleman
to pretend that he does not know," said Aitzig,
deaf to the question, " the gracious gentleman can of
course do so. Who is Aitzig, that he should object ? "

What do you want ? " said Lucyan again.

I want the money," replied the Jew.

He came to a standstill beside the door, — for his
lifelong habit was still strong upon him. Over his
arm there hung something black and long, that was
folded together for greater convenience, and from
between the folds of which a silver stripe peeped out
here and there to catch the light.

Have I not forbidden you to come to the house ? "
said Lucyan, sternly. " People are beginning to notice
your constant presence, and to remark upon it."

Oh yes," sniggered Aitzig, " the noble Pan has forbidden
poor Aitzig to come to the house."

Well, and are my commands not to be obeyed ? "

No doubt, no doubt ; but Aitzig, being on his way
to the synagogue, could see no harm in coming inhere
as he passed, just as he was, with his Tales over
his arm." Aitzig, as he spoke, gently patted the
brand-new shroud, — for it was his shroud he carried
with him.

When you have anything to say to me," went on
Lucyan, quickly, " you should wait outside to say it, —
at the end of the garden, or in the forest — that is, out
of sight of the windows," he added to himself.

The noble Pan knows that I have something to
say to him."

But I have no time to hear it now, — I am in a

great hung, Aitzig ; T have been called to Lwow for a
meeting ; in less than an hour I must start. I will
hear you another day, Aitzig."

And another day the noble Pan will be weary from
his journey; and the day after that I will come, and
find the house empty, because the noble Pan is gone
to his fields ; and thus the time passes, and Aitzig gets
not his money."

You will get it in time," said Lucyan.

Of course I shall get it in time," answered Aitzig,
sharply, for a moment dropping his abject tone, while
at the bare suggestion of not getting his money, his
sunken eyes gleamed as bright as hot coals. "Of
course I shall get my money."

"Yes, yes," said Lucyan, shuddering a little at that
look of Aitzig's. " Yes, yes, — of course."

But the gleam in Aitzig's eyes was only momentary;
in the next minute he had sunk back already into his
cowering attitude, and resumed his nasal whine.

The noble Pan is not going to be hard upon poor
old Aitzig, who has served him so faithfully and so
well, — who has obeyed his commands, and followed
at his heels like a dog."

I have told you that you shall have your money."

Who but Aitzig," 'went on the factor, " could have
done this thing ? How Aitzig has worked, and spoken,
and pressed to get this thing done ! And now the

thing is done, and the railway comes here, and the
men are busy already with the ground over there by
the forest, — the noble Pan can see them if he walks
into the garden ; and Aitzig, who looks upon it, and
says, ' This is my work,' — is Aitzig to linger and wait
for his payment ? "

Enough, enough, Aitzig," said Lucyan, irritably ;
I have no time for this to-day, — I am in a hurry. I
have not got the money at hand just now."

The noble Pan loves to say that he has not the
money at hand, and he has but to stretch out his hand
and reach it ; and the noble Pan has plenty of money
more, — more money than the people can guess. Hi,
hi ! He has been so clever, the gracious gentleman,
that all others have been as fools beside him ; but not
Aitzig Majulik, — oh no, not Aitzig Majulik ; hi, hi ! "

Hold your infernal chatter, dog, in God's name ! "
said Lucyan, between his teeth.

Aitzig is a dog ? " whimpered the Jew ; " poor old
Aitzisj is a doo to be kicked and trodden. Thus does
the noble Pan use his faithful servants. He turned off
Naftali Taubenkllbel, to starve in his old age, and
would he not like to turn off Aitzig Majulik ? "

Yes, if he dared," thought Lucyan to himself ; but
he made no answer to the Jew.

His brother," chattered on Aitzig, " the gracious
Pan Kapitan, — he would not serve his servants in that

manner : for he is a great gentleman, an honourable
gentleman, the Pan Kazimir. If the Pan Kazimir
were master of Wowasulka, then "

Then ? ^Yhat do you mean by then ? " questioned
Lucyan, quickly, turning rather pale as he spoke ; for
the idea thus betrayed struck him with vague alarm.
If you are not satisfied with your master, why do
you not go and look for another ? " The words were
mere hollow mockery. They both knew well enough
why Aitzig could not go and look for another master.
It had long been clear to both that for Aitzig there
could be no other master than Lucyan, and for Lucyan
no other servant than Aitzig.

Mean ? " echoed the Jew, wriggling a few steps
nearer. "Aitzig means no harm; he makes no reproaches
; he wants but his money ; he asks but for
that, — the money which is his — the fifth portion of
the profit."

Hush, in heaven's name, — hush ! " said Lucyan ;
not so loud. You need not yell out our transaction,
so that the whole house should hear it."

He was not yelling, — he was whispering; but to
Lucyan's overstrained nerves it appeared as though
all the ears of the neighbourhood must be reached by
that hoarse whisper.

The fifth portion of the profit," repeated Aitzig, ina
lower, hoarser whisper. " The noble Pan has not

forgotten our terms ? Ah, no ! I see that the noble
Pan remembers well. When shall I have the money 1 "

When I have time to attend to the matter."

If the noble Pan would name a day — if he would
say to me, ' Aitzig, your money shall be paid to you on
Monday, or on Wednesday, or within the week

I cannot possibly name a day exactly. I shall be
away at Lwow for several days now."

Shall it be Tuesday ? " suggested the Jew, with an
insinuating smirk.

No, it cannot be."

Wednesday?" pressed Aitzig, in a yet softer voice.

I shall be busy on Wednesday."

Within the week ? before the end of next week ? "

I have bound myself to no time," answered Lucyan,
writhing to escape. " You shall have it whenever
it is convenient, and it is not convenient to-day.
I must have peace to-day, do you hear ? "

Peace ! " said Aitzig, reflectively. " Yes, I hear."

He stood silent for a minute, with his eyes so
completely in shadow that their expression was not
to be read. Lucyan, taking up his hat, and blowing
some dust from his coat-sleeve, was striving to appear
as if he had forgotten Aitzig's presence, but not succeeding
so well as he might have wished.

If," began Aitzig, after that pause, " if the noble
Pan desires peace, he can have it easily."

How ? " asked Lucyan, with a sigh of sheer
fatigue.

He has only to give to poor Aitzig a piece of
paper — a little piece of paper — which says that he
owes him the six thousand, florins."

A voucher ? " repeated Lucyan, suspiciously.

Yes, they call it so ; only a little piece of paper.
And when Aitzig has that paper, the gracious Pan
shall have peace. Aitzig will press him no more.
The gracious Pan shall have peace for a month, a
whole month, after Aitzig gets that paper;" and in
the breathless eagerness of his speech, Aitzig went off
into a fit of coughing which shook his lean frame
from head to foot.

Lucyan, pausing in the brushing of his coat sleeve,
stood and listened to the insinuating words. Peace !
Peace was the very thing he wanted just now; peace
and respite from the dreaded moment. Would it not
be worth buying at the price of that scrap of paper ?
It was a thought to be considered at least; and in
order to consider it the more easily, Lucyan mechanically
drew out his comb-case and opened it. The
case was empty, the comb had never been put back
there ; it must have slipped out of his hand in the
beginning of the interview (for the new ivory was still
as polished as glass), and he had never noticed it.
He cast his eyes about him hastily with a feeling of

uneasiness, a sensation of something wanting, something
positively incomplete about himself; for such a
thing as to have dropped his comb unnoticed had
never before happened to him. This trifling incident
disconcerted him almost more than anything he had
ever experienced. He seemed to have lost his bearings
and his cue as he looked about in vain for the
comb. And all the time Aitzig was pouring out a
gentle stream of arguments, soothing, tempting, and
dazzling ; they entered Lucyan's soul by his ears, and
crowded upon him more and more, until the temptation
of ridding himself of Aitzig's presence, and of
thinking that he had rid himself of it for a whole
long month, became too urgent to be resisted. He
would need no longer then to listen nervously for
that hateful step in the passage, which had grown to
haunt him even in his dreams.

Scarcely aware of it, he was walking towards the
writing-table already. He sat down slowly in front of
it, and drew out a sheet of paper. He had not exactly
resolved to do this thing as yet, and he was not able
at this moment to analyse the matter calmly; but
he was strangely tempted by the idea of immediate
peace, and mechanically he smoothed out the sheet,
and tried the point of his pen.

Well ? " he said, turning his head towards Aitzig.

Aitzig, leaving his place by the door, stole forward

towards the table. He came along cautiously on tiptoe,
with his eyes cast about him, almost as if he
expected a trap laid in the carpet ; and Lucyan saw
him come with that same suspicious look, almost as
though he suspected a dagger under the kaftan.

Aitzig suggested the words, dictated them almost,
and Lucyan wrote, without once protesting, as though
under a spell.

It was drawing near to the hour of the synagogue ;
and as he dictated, Aitzig took the shroud from his
arm, and hastily shook out its folds.

Yes, noble Pan, that is the way, that is the way,"
he murmured, throwing the black garment about his
shoulders in order to save time ; and as he followed
the strokes of the signature, he hugged himself in his
shroud.

So entirely had Lucyan's faculties been wrapped in
the paper before him, that he had never noticed
Aitzig's manipulations. Looking up now from the
last letter of his name, he started at the sight before
him.

There stood the gabbling Jew, with his claw-like
hand stretched out for the paper — his eyes burning ina
fever of impatience for the moment that he should
clutch it — and his death-cloak hanging around him.
It muffled him in its blue-black folds; the silver
stripes set off the shrivelled skin, the hooked nose,

the corkscrew curls, with a ghastly grotesqueness of
frame.

It was an ugly sight, and yet, strange to say, nothing
beautiful that he had ever seen in his life had
appeared to Lucyan so entrancing as this picture of
Aitzig in his shroud. It seemed to show him all at
once and distinctly what was the thing he wanted.
If only he could see Aitzig thus — see him wrapped for
good and all in his shroud — how easy would everything
be then ! No more danger then; no more dread.
Those thirty thousand florins in the drawer need not
be parted. Who could trace, then, the step by which
he had climbed to his present height ? The ghost of
the past would then indeed be laid.

With a sort of fascination he sat and gazed at
Aitzig, and as he gazed, Aitzig broke into a second fit
of coughing more violent than the first. Yes, he was
an old man, to be sure. It would not be strange if
some day — some not very distant day — he were to
break down.

The sight of Aitzig coughing in his shroud appeared
only to have enhanced the impression made by Aitzig
simply standing there in his shroud. The factor could
not imagine what reason induced Lucyan to sit and
gaze at him with a look so fascinated, almost so admiring.
If he had looked at his beautiful young wifelike
that it might have been comprehensible ; but an

VOL. III. E

old Jew in a shroud ! Aitzisr did not understand ito



He stood there coughing and wondering, but never
withdrawing the outstretched hand which waited for
the paper, even though his whole arm shook from the
violence of the paroxysm.

Lucyan looked from the yellow hand up to the
watchful eyes, and hesitated. He looked again, and
the paper which he was holding out already, was
unexpectedly withdrawn. Perhaps something too expressive
in the clutch of that hand had frightened
him. Should he give it, or should he not ? He was
not enough master of himself to answer the question
coolly ; but he retained just enough self-command to
check himself on the very verge of an act of rashness.

No, Aitzig," he said, leaning back ; " not to-day.
Come back on Wednesday, and you shall have the
paper. I must sleep a night over this," — he passed
his hand over his damp brow — " and," he added to
himself, " I must find my comb first."

Had it not been so very near to the hour of the
synagogue, the battle might have begun anew. But
Aitzig had run himself too close already; and Lucyan's
carriage was at the door.

The paper, written and signed as it was, was pushed
back into the desk ; and Aitzig's eyes followed it till
it disappeared, and remained on the spot where it had
vanished. It was a comfort to him at least to know

that the paper was lying there with the full signature
to it. Partial though the victory was, he must be
content for to-day. He saw the paper put into the
desk — he saw the desk-lid closed — he marked how the
Marszalek's hand shook in the action — and he marked
another small circumstance besides, which took deep
root in his memory; and it was just then that the
carriage came to the door for Lucyan.

In another five minutes the carriage was bearing
Lucyan away; and Aitzig was hurrying along the
road towards Tarajow.

But in the empty room, where the evening shadows
were falling now, a spiteful imp was laughing to itself.
The lost comb lay under the writing-table ; and as it
peeped out cautiously from its concealment, its white
teeth seemed to gleam through the shade in a grin of
diabolical glee.

Chapter XI L

QUEEN AND KNAVE.

Deny was man schwarz auf weiss besitzt
Ann man detroit each House tragen." •

—Goethe.

Xenia had found an old wooden lamb, with half the
paint sucked off ; and the sight of that lamb made her
sit down where she had found it in a corner of the
empty nursery, and begin to cry. Her thoughts had
not been much with her dead Wandusia lately. She
had shed many tears at first, and immediately after
her bereavement had written a most touching letter
to a friend at Krakow, in which she described herself
as sitting between a cradle and an open grave ; but
of late her thoughts had been very busy with something
else — something which she did not quite understand
herself When, however, she met anything that
reminded her of Wandusia, she always sat down and
cried for a few minutes at a time. Nothing had so
vividly reminded her of Wandusia for long as this

sucked wooden lamb ; and therefore she cried for
several more minutes than usual.

I remember so well bringing it back from Lwow
for her, and she was so pleased with it, poor darling ;
and I had on my new mauve dress that day, with
shaded ribbons in my hair."

The wooden lamb looked at her so reproachfully
that Xenia felt an impulse to do something unusual.
She therefore went out into the garden and gathered
a great bunch of blue asters (she knew that Lucyan
did not like her meddling with the few remaining roses),
and with the flowers in her hand she started for the
churchyard near Tarajow. When she looked back upon
this day in after-years, it was always with a certain
surprise and unqualified admiration of her own courage.
She was not used to taking walks alone ; or,
for the matter of that, to taking walks at all. This
walk to the churchyard was decidedly the most
courageous act of her life. Had the influence of the
wooden lamb not been so strong upon her, she never
would have been capable of anything as rash, not to
say reckless (regarded from a Polish point of view),
as to walk without protection for half an hour along
a country-road. If Lucyan had been at home she
would not have dared to do this ; for Lucyan objected
to her fatiguing herself thus ; and he particularly
objected to any visits to the churchyard, as the

unavoidable result was red eyes. But Lucyan was
away at Lwow still, and would not be back till the
next day.

Early in the afternoon, Xenia started with her
bunch of asters in her hand ; and about an hour and
a half later, she returned with only a few blue flowers
remaining, which she had stuck into her waistband,
for the colour happened to harmonise with the dress.

But she was not thinking of the asters now, nor of
her dress, nor either of Wandusia's grave. She reached
the house almost running ; and breathless and scared
she sank into a chair, and closed her eyes to recover
herself.

Never again, in all her life, she vowed with her
returning breath, would she take a country-walk alone.
Her first experience of the kind would certainly be her
last. All her ardour of two hours ago was quenched
beyond revival, and the wooden lamb was superseded
by quite another image now ; for she had had a fright
on the way back, and she was still trembling at the
mere thought of it, and shedding hysterical tears.

When the hysterical stage was passed, there followed
a violent desire to confide her adventure to
somebody. She was as little able as a child of keeping
her troubles to herself, and quite as little able as a
child of bearing them alone. But no possible confidant
was at hand ; Lucyan was away, aunt Kobertine was

out, Vizia had not been near the house for weeks.
Surely aunt Eobertine must be returning soon ! Xenia
did not venture to go out into the garden, for fear of
seeing again that terrifying figure which had so scared
her on the road, but she went to the door and peeped
out impatiently. When she had looked out three or
four times she grew frightened again, for she saw someone
coming through the garden ; but in the next moment
her fears vanished. It was only Aitzig Majulik,
whom she had grown so used to seeing that his presence
appeared quite natural at any hour of the day.

Is the gracious Pan returned from Lwow ? " inquired
Aitzig, as he approached the door.

No, he is not back yet," said Xenia.

Aitzig silently rocked his head, in what was meant
to look like dumb despair, just as if he had not before
known what the answer would be.

But perhaps the gracious Pan has left directions
with the gracious Panii," asked Aitzig, cautiously.
Did he not make a note of something that was to
be given to Aitzig Majulik ? "

"Xo, he left me no directions at all; he never
does."

Aitzig rocked his head more violently than before,
and began softly to wring his hands and gently to
utter groans.

Is there anything the matter ? " asked Xenia,

rather startled. It was always disagreeable to her to
see any one suffering ; and Aitzig looked at this moment
as though he were in a fit of the most acute
pain. She had left the doorway by this time, and
had returned into the drawing-room, where Aitzig
followed her,

"Yes, there is much that is the matter," began Ait-zig,
as noiselessly he closed the door, speaking in a
mournful, dreary tone, like the minor chord of a barrel-organ
— very much out of tune, — " there is much that is
the matter. Times are bad, and poor old Aitzig has
got to toil from morning to night to supply his wants,
and the roads are dusty, gracious Panii, and hard to
tread."

"But I cannot help yon," answered Xenia, somewhat
overwhelmed by this panorama of misery unrolled
before her eyes.

Aitzig had a notion that she could help him, but
the opportunity was not quite ripe yet, so he went on
in the same minor key.

And to-day I come to ask for the thing that has
been promised me, and the noble Pan is not returned,
and I have to go disappointed home."

What has been promised you ? " asked Xenia.

Only a little bit of paper."

A bit of paper ? "

Yes, a paper, — a business-paper, — that is all."

But I know nothing at all about business," said
Xenia, honestly.

Ah no : why should a beautiful lady like you know
anything of business 1 " sighed Aitzig. Of course she
knew nothing of business ; and just because he knew
that she knew nothing of business was the conviction
steadily growing upon him that she had the power to
help him. " What was the paper about, did the gracious
lady ask ? " said Aitzig, drawing out his words,
so as to gain time for thought. "What else should
it be but about the Propinacya which gives so much
work to poor Aitzig ? "

The Propinacya, he had rapidly concluded, was the
safest stalking-horse to choose.

Oh, about the Propinacya ! " repeated Xenia, turning
rather pale again ; for the Propinacya had played
a prominent part in her fright of this afternoon.
It was about the Propinacya that that dreadful old
man spoke to me to - day ; oh, he frightened me
so 1 " and she sat down and began deliberately to
tremble.

An old man ? " asked Aitzig, curiously. " What
old man has dared to frighten the gracious lady ? "

Xenia looked at the factor and hesitated. He was
very dirty and very ragged, and he was a Jew, but
at the same time he was a human being with ears
to listen to her story, and a tongue to answer her,

even if not a soul to sympathise ; and after a very
little more fencing, she began to pour out her adventure.


She had been on her way back from the churchyard,
where she had put the asters on Wandusia's
grave (save those kept for her belt), when all at once
upon the road she had been stopped by an old man,
an old few in tatters, and bent upon a stick. "Are
you the lady of Wowasulka ? " he had asked her; and
when she said " yes," he had stood in front of her fora
minute, looking at her slowly all over, from the
crown of her hat down to the heels of her boots. He
was murmuring something into his beard which she
could not understand ; but when his eye reached the
line of gold bracelet on her wrist, the murmur had
burst out into loud words. " She can wear gold ! " he
had screamed in a transport of fury — " gold upon her
hands, and gold on her neck, and gold in her ears !
'But it is bad gold, bad gold ; the lady of Wowasulka
carries ill-gotten goods along with her. Go home, fair
lady ; and if they ask who stopped you on the road,
say : Naftali Taubenklibel, who served the Bielinskis
for thirty years, and was turned off at last like a horse
that is too old to chew the grass ; who held the Pro-panacea
once, and prospered, but who sank down
slowly, slowly, slowly, from the day that it was taken
from him. Say that his children are dead, and his

grandchildren starving, and say that his curse shall
follow you beyond your grave."

All this Xenia repeated to Aitzig in a more or less
comprehensible form, and Aitzig, listening intently,
sagaciously nodded his head, and looked impressively
wise. There was nothing especially startling to him
in the occurrence itself, but he was considering whether
the effect it had produced could not be employed so as
to assist his plans.

Do you not think the poor man must have been
mad ? " asked Xenia. " It is so dreadful to think that
his grandchildren are starving ; but can you not tell
him that he must not frighten me like that again ? "

I shall see, I shall see," said Aitzig slowly, racking
his brain for some plausible pretext. "Now, if the
Pan had been at home, and I could have had the
paper "

Has the paper got anything to do with Naftali
Taubenkiibel ? " asked Xenia, with a new interest.

"He held the Propinacya once," ventured Aitzig,
cautiously.

"Ah, the Propinacya; yes, I understand." She did
not understand at all, or rather she completely misunderstood
; but she knew that Naftali had once
held the Propinacya, and that Aitzig now held it ;
and Aitzig had told her that the paper he wanted had
something to do with the Propinacya. She did not

attempt to enter into the matter, but in some indefinite
way she connected the ideas, and thought that
she understood. Aitzig's words had gained a plausible
support now.

If the gracious Panii understands;" suggested
Aitzig, " then will she not let Aitzig have the paper
he wants ? "

"But I know nothing about it; I don't know where
it is."

/ know where it is," retorted Aitzig, betrayed for
one moment into open eagerness. " It lies in the next
room, just under the lid of the desk."

But the desk is locked," said Xenia, " and I have
not got the keys."

True, true ; but the gracious Pan might have taken
out the paper again and laid it outside ; if the noble
lady would only go into the next room, and only casta
glance about."

Aitzig's next move was undoubtedly to get into the
same room with the paper. Remembering a certain
small circumstance which he had noted the other day,
he made this move with a hopefully beating heart.

Xenia, half willing, half unwilling, led the way into
Lucyan's writing-room ; and scarcely had Aitzig crept
in behind her, when he experienced a violent inclination
to clap his hands, and kick up his slippered heels
for joy, for his first glance towards the desk had

shown him that he was right. An expressive gape of
the lid met his eye ; it had never been properly closed.
Oh joy and wonder ! Not even a lock, only a woman
between him and the thing he wanted. Might his
name be no longer Aitzig Majulik if he did not prove
himself able to gain his object now.

Why, the desk is open," said Xenia, going up toit,
but stopping a pace off, and looking at it rather
shyly. She so very seldom entered her husband's
private room, that she was scarcely familiar with its
objects ; and Lucyan's desk inspired her with a kind
of awe.

Of course the desk is open," argued Aitzig ; " the
noble gentleman has left it open on purpose, so that
the noble lady should give my paper."

But he told me nothing about it," said Xenia, still
reluctant.

'' Gottt ind die Welt I but that is strange, that he
should have said nothing of it ! " cried Aitzig, throwing
up his hands. " The noble gentleman must have
forgotten in the hurry ; but the paper is there, waiting
for me — I know it is. Lift but the lid a little, ever
so little, and you will see the paper that lies waiting
for Aitzig Majulik. Oh, there now ! does the gracious
lady believe Aitzig's words now?" for Xenia had
carefully lifted the lid a little way and caught sight
of the folded sheet beneath. Aitzig had caught sight

of it too, and in this moment he would have liked best
to snatch up the paper and make off with it through
the door. That course would scarcely be safe, however,
and he stood in a fever of expectancy, watching
Xenia, as she slowly pulled out the sheet, and held it
still folded in her hand.

Open it, gracious Panii," said Aitzig, drawing a
little nearer in his eagerness, " and you will see the
name of Aitzig Majulik upon it." Peering thus over
her shoulder, with his face not a quarter of a yard from
hers, Aitzig looked like some wizened sorcerer ; and
Xenia, with this foil to her beauty, appeared like the
fairy-princess, around whom the sorcerer is weaving
his enchantments.

She opened the paper, and sav the name of Aitzig
Majulik, and saw Lu can's signature at the bottom.
The blinds had not been drawn up in this room today,
so the paper was not easy to read at a glance ;
she saw something about a sum of money, but whether
the sum were sixty, or six hundred, or six thousand
florins, she did not think of investigating.

"It is most gracious of the noble lady to give to
Aitzig the paper," began Aitzig, thinking it best policy
to thank in advance for the favour which he had not
yet received.

But I do not know whether Lucyan meant me to
give it to you," said Xenia, doubtfully.

It is but a piece of paper, a little piece of paper,"
said Aitzig, in an accent of infantine innocence. " If
Aitzig asked for money, then would it be wise to
hesitate ; but he asks only for a little piece of
paper."

And you say that it is for the Propinacya that you
need it ? " she questioned, still doubtfully.

For the Propinacya, yes, assuredly."

"And that old man I saw, Naftali Taubenkubel,
is it for him that you must have the paper ? "

Assuredly, assuredly," answered Aitzig, with brazen
untruth. As long as he got the paper into his hands,
it did not matter what pretext he used.

Surely it would be right to give him the paper,"
thought Xenia, as she stood hesitating. " It must be
right, as his name was on it." She was not accustomed
to do anything by her own choice, but always that
which others told her, even if the other were only a
Jew. On the whole, she felt half proud of her present
position. Lucyan had told her so often that she
understood nothing of business; he had scolded her
for having been awkward in getting those letters from
Kazimir, and now she had a notion that she was
going to vindicate her intelligence by proving herself
capable of giving a paper to a Jew. She was on the
point of yielding, when once more the thought of such
a distinct act made her take fright.

"Cannot Naftali Taubenkiibel wait till Lucyan is
back ? " she protested.

Gottt und die Welt ! " cried Aitzig, desperate at her
hesitation, and aiming a bold stroke at a spot which
he had already marked as weak ; " are not his grandchildren
starving ? did he not tell the gracious Panii so
himself?" The grandchildren turned the scale, for
Xenia could not bear to think of any one as starving ;
and the image of the old Jew, and the sound of his
curses were still so vivid, that she trembled at the
recollection. She did not in the least see how the
grandchildren were going to be benefited by the paper;
but yet the paper in another moment had passed from
the white to the shrivelled yellow hand, and Aitzig,
restraining a strong inclination to skip from the room,
was, with trembling fingers, buttoning it safe up into
the breast of his kaftan.

CHAPTER XIII.

BETWEEN PARTNERS.

Noa sura qualis era."

—Horace.

It was with a sense of relief and respite that Lucyan
stepped into his carriage as he started from home.
For some days, at least, all worries were to be left
behind him. In a few years' time, he reflected with
satisfaction, it would be a first-class coupe into which
he could step almost at his own door ; and whereas it
now took him a day to reach the capital, it would take
him but a few hours then. Let Xenia complain of
headaches as much as she liked, the inconvenience of
having the rocks blasted so near to the house was well
worth bearing patiently for the sake of the result in
view.

These thoughts were exhilarating ; and Lucyan had
not been long gone from home, when his mind began
to settle down into something like its normal quiet.
He set to considering the last scene with Aitzig Maju-

VOL. III. F

lik. On the whole he was glad that he had withheld
the paper. It was wiser not to have committed himself
rashly. When he had slept a night over it, he
would be able to see clearer, no doubt.

Lucyan slept a night over it ; and next morning
he did see more clearly. " What would have been the
immediate result of that passer passing into Aitzig's
hands ? " he reflected dispassionately.

For Lucyan himself it would have been peace from
persecution ; and for Aitzig ? For Aitzig it would
have been a certitude of payment. That paper once
in his hands, Aitzig could be sure of getting his money
under all contingencies. " Yes, he would be sure of
it," thought Lucyan ; " whatever else might happen —
however much I might delay — he would be sure of it,
whether I were alive or dead."

Whether I were dead ! " The thought struck upon
him disagreeably. Aitzig would* not be likely to bewail
his death ; and something in the train of reflection
led him back to some words which Aitzig had said yesterday
when he had spoken of Kazimir as the possible
master of Wowasulka. They had jarred upon him
then, and they came back upon him now. With
double force they came back; they disturbed and
oppressed him ; and the look which Aitzig had worn
came back to him too. The more he dwelt on the
recollection — and he dwelt on it with all the morbid

persistency of overstrained nerves — the more sinister
a meaning did that tone and look appear to assume.
And at last it flashed across his mind, " Why, Aitzig
would not only be as sure, he would be much surer of
his money, were I dead instead of alive ! "

Now did he thank his stars for having guided him
to withhold the paper. It is always a mistake when
one man makes his death the object of another man's
interest. A sort of panic came over him at the thought
of what he had so nearly done. If it had not been for
losing that stupid comb, he reflected, and with it his
presence of mind, he never could have come so near to
doing it. It was true what Aitzig had said : he had
been so clever that all other men had been as fools
beside him; and now, for all his cleverness, he had
barely saved himself on the verge of the veriest schoolboy
mistake. Like a man who has ridden hard all his
life, and ends by breaking his neck over a cart-rut, so
had Lucy an conquered all dangers, to blunder at last
in the simplest of things — a mere scrap of paper. He
had caught himself on the edge of a precipice, and
though he was saved from the fall into the abyss, he
felt rather giddy, merely from having looked down.

The terror of what he had so nearly done, and the
relief of not having done it, engendered in Lucyan a
sensation akin to intoxication. He walked the streets
of the capital in a mood so buoyant that he scarcely

recognised himself. He felt better than he had done
for weeks, — he felt as if he had drunk champagne;
he felt almost as if he could have uttered a prayer of
thanksgiving for the self-confidence, in which he had
begun to doubt, being once more restored to him.
Never before had he so believed in the guidance of
his good star as he believed in it now.

This buoyancy remained with him as he travelled
homewards : it was unabated still as he reached Wowa-
sulla, late in the evening. The Panii had retired to
bed : the supper had been kept for the Pan ; it was on
the table. Lucyan was glad to hear it, — glad that the
Panii was in bed, for her talk would only have wearied
him, — and glad that the supper was on the table, for
he felt quite abnormally hungry. The supper was
done justice to. " I have eaten well," said Lucyan, ashe
rose from the table, feeling rather surprised at himself;
"and I feel as if I could sleep well to-night, —
the first real sleep for a month at least : I should sleep
all the better if I laid that paper under my pillow, as
the children do with their toys. Supposing I lay it
there ? " and still smiling in a sort of amused wonder
at himself, and at his own childishness, Lucyan took
up the solitary lamp, and carried it into the next
room. He was eager to handle again that trump-card
with which he had so nearly been parting in foolish
haste.

The next room was his writing-room — his own private
apartment, sacred to himself, — the sanctuary of
his secrets, of his cares, and of his triumphs. There
was nothing to show that the sanctuary had been
violated. The place had been tidied and dusted ; the
pencils had been freshly cut : upon the desk the pen-holders
were ranged with an almost military precision,
presenting their inky bayonets with perfect regularity
; and beside them there lay a little object, white
and long — the ivory comb, which had come to light in
the dusting of the room. This was all exactly as it
should be, — exactly as Lucyan had always found his
room after every absence from home. He caressingly
passed his hand down the slope of the oaken lid, thinking
how well that desk had kept his secrets for him.
Faithful and discreet old friend! stout, unassailable,
and silent How was that ? The lamp which Lucyan
held rattled loudly in his hand : he had started
in that moment — a start of surprise and terror. His
fingers had reached the lower end of the lid, when, at
that moment, he felt it yield to his touch. There was
no resistance to meet an intruding hand, — the desk
was unlocked. At first he refused to believe it. He
preferred to doubt the sight which his eyes saw, and
the sensation which his fingers experienced, to admitting
the possibility that he should have left his desk
unlocked. This — this alone — was not as it should be.

This was, as for all the world it should not have been.
A second time he tried the lid, opening it no more
than an inch; then he began slowly to believe, — to
believe, that is to say, that it was open — not that he
had left it open. Carefully placing the lamp on the
table, he sat down, and attempted to think out the
situation. With a great effort he forced his mind
back to the circumstances of his departure. The talk
with Aitzig was quite distinct ; the sight of Aitzig in
his shroud was very clear ; so was the writing of the
paper, — but then he was checked by a blank-when
he attempted to picture the moment of turning the
key, his memory refused the image. He could remember
having locked the desk innumerable times ;
he could remember the details of many such lockings ;
but this particular time he could not reach by any
effort of mind. The key was in his pocket ; but it
could afford him no clue. If he had forgotten to turn
it in the lock, thought Lucyan, then his clearness of
mind was beginning to go. He put his hand to his
forehead, and wondered to feel it so cold and damp.
He had been even nearer to the brink of the abyss
than he had thought himself; and once more that
terrible giddiness of brain seized upon him. As he
leant forward to open the desk, the walls seemed tottering
towards him on either side, and the floor to be
sinking from under his feet.

The desk was scarcely open yet when he knew that
the paper was gone. There were a hundred nooks and
drawers where it might have lain ; but in the moment
that he flung up the lid and looked within, Lucyan
understood at once that he had been robbed. Whatever
else had grown dim, the exact position which
that sheet had occupied had remained perfectly clear.
The emptiness at which he stared had more meaning
to him than any fulness he had ever seen ; this blank
was more tangible, this absence was more positive,
than any presence had ever been.

Robbery ! " he muttered, and stealthily glanced
around him. No trace of robbery met his eye. The
room was undisturbed, absolute order reigned. He
examined the lock, and found that it had not been
forced. The thirty thousand florins lay untouched
where he had left them. By this time his hands were
shaking with excitement, like the hands of an old man
in palsy. He lifted them to his head, and, rising from
the chair, stood clutching his temples rigidly. The
necessity of thinking and the impossibility of thinking
clearly just now overwhelmed him. " To-morrow,"
he said aloud, struggling in the terrible confusion of
thought — " tomorrow, when I have slept ; " but in the
same moment he seemed to see his sleepless night
before him as distinct as a reality. He took a turn in
the room to calm himself. " If my steadiness fails

me," he reflected, " I am lost. This will not do ; I
must sleep. There must be draughts in the apothecary's
at Tarajow which will make me sleep. It is

too late for to-day ; but tomorrow — tomorrow ."

Mechanically he took up the lamp, and guided himself
carefully from the room. " To-morrow, tomorrow,"
he was still muttering as he entered the bedroom,
walking like a drunken man.

The light flashed across Xenia's face as she lay in
bed, and awoke her. Very slowly she turned on her
pillow, and her blue eyes, dim with sleep, wandered
towards the entering figure. That mutter of " tomorrow
" had broken in upon her dream, and she was
still half dreaming as she drowsily watched Lucyan
coming in.

To-morrow ? What is there tomorrow ? " she said,
sleepily ; and then, as Lucyan turned at the sound of
her voice, the sleepy look left her eyes.

Are you ill, Lucyan ? " she asked, abruptly ; " you
are so pale. Has anything happened ? "

I have been robbed," said Lucyan, sullenly.

"Robbed?" Xenia started to a sitting posture,
wide awake in a moment, while one heavy brown
plait fell over the front of the embroidered night-dress.
" Is it my diamonds ? " she gasped. " Oh,
Lucyan, please lock the door!"

Lucyan did not lock the door ; perhaps he had not

heard the request. Of all that she had said, he
seemed only to have heard the word " diamonds ; "
and he smiled scornfully as he heard it.

I wish it was your diamonds ! " he laughed, with
an evil glitter of his eye.

'' Then what is it?" questioned Xenia, preparing to
draw her handkerchief from under the pillow. " What
has been robbed, Lucyan ? "

Nothing that you know nor could understand.
Go to sleep and leave me alone."

I can't sleep till I know ; please, please tell me."

It is my desk, then," said Lucyan, for the mere
sake of peace. " My desk has been robbed. There,
leave me alone now."

Lucyan turned without even glancing at his wife's
face, and took another turn in the room ; but Xenia
remained sitting up in her bed, and the air of alarmed
distress began to melt from her face.

Was there any money in the desk, Lucyan ? "

What is that to you ? There is no money gone."

What is there gone ? "

A piece of paper. Now, I suppose, you are much
the wiser," he sneered. Lucyan expected her to shrink
under the sneer, but she did not. She remained looking
at him, while a half-triumphant smile began to
dawn round her lips and in her eyes.

"Of course I am much the wiser," she said, while

childish exultation rang in her voice. " Tt is all right
about the piece of paper ; it has not been robbed."

Lucyan smiled absently, scarcely listening to the
words, and certainly not believing them.

I know where the paper is ! " said Xenia, exultant,
although a little hurt at this disregard of her
present importance.

Really," said Lucyan, still in that dull uninterested
tone of voice.

Yes, it was a paper for Aitzig Majulik," she
eagerly went on, leaning forward with clasped hands
in her effort to rouse Lucyan. " It was for Aitzig
Majulik, and you forgot to give it him before you
went away."

What about Aitzig Majulik ? " Lucyan asked,
slowly.

Well, Aitzig was in a great hurry for the paper ;
you forgot to give it him, and I "

And you ? "

I gave it him," said Xenia, simply.

Lucyan shrugged his shoulders. " Go to sleep,
child," he said ; " you are talking nonsense." ' He was
scarcely roused yet. Up to this moment he had been
too dazed to adopt any theory, or to attempt any
explanation of the disappearance. He had simply
recognised the fact and nothing more. This theory
suggested by Xenia he thought not worth considering.

His wife had always been so completely separate from
this business, that it was very difficult to realise any
connection between the two. He was half ashamed
of himself for having entered even thus far into the
subject with her ; it was a mere wasteful bandying of
words. As wisely discuss literature with a street-boy
as talk of business to Xenia.

T am not talking nonsense," she said, with her
favourite shrug and her prettiest pout. " Aitzig said
that he must have the paper, and it was lying in the
top of your desk,. directly under the lid."

So it was," said Lucy an, quickly. He had just
then reached the far end of the room; he stopped
short, and, with his hands behind his back, stood
facing his wife. Her last words had hit his attention
at last. " Directly under the lid ! " Yes ; that was the
exact way in which the paper had lain. How well he
knew the spot ! It was strange that she should know
it too.

Yes," chattered on Xenia ; " and the desk was
open."

So it was," said Lucyan again, still staring at his
wife. " And the paper, what was it like ? "

It was blue, and it was folded in two, this waygoing
through the action with her hands.

Exactly ; and you took it out ? "

Of course I did."

And what did you do with it ? "

I gave it to Aitzig Majulik ; I told you so already."

Because he asked for it ? "

He begged for it, and I found it quite easily, without
any trouble. You left the desk open on purpose,
did you not, Lucyan ? "

She got no answer ; and looking up, she saw Lucyan
walking slowly towards her down the length of the
room, with his eyes intent upon her ; and, as he came
nearer, there was something so terrible in his face,
that Xenia, with a shriek, cowered to her pillow, and
covered her eyes with her hands.

No," said Lucyan, " that is not it. Do you know
why you gave him the paper ? I will tell you. Because
you are a fool ! "

He was close by the bed, standing over her, as she
crouched before him. With one hand he tore down
the satin coverlet in which she had hidden her face,
and now she could see his eyes gleaming fiercely
above her, and his features, as she had never seen
them before, distorted with fury.

You are a fool, Xenia ! " he cried, in a passion so
sudden and so fearful, that the sight of it seemed to
stop the blood in her veins. " You have ruined me
and lost me. Oh, why was I cursed with a fool for
my wife ? "

This transport of rage was all the more awful for

being the first in Lucyan's life. To his sneers, his
taunts, and his sarcasm, Xenia had got blunted long
ago, but never before had she seen him in a passion.
He was much too clever not to have been irritated by
her stupidity, and much too fastidious not to have
been surfeited long ago by her beauty ; but never once
had he been even tempted to lose his temper in this
or any other contingency in life. This was the first
instance of the kind, and, paralysed by surprise,
Xenia lay and stared into the face above her.

Do not stare, but speak ! " cried Lucyan. " Staring
does not suit you. Methinks you are losing your
looks, child ; and what remains of a fool when her
looks are gone ? Ha ! Have you nothing to say ?
Nothing ? Nothing to shield yourself with ? No excuse
? What devil made you give that paper to the
Jew ? Speak, in heaven's name, but do not stare ! "
and he shook her by the shoulder.

It was about Naftali Taubenktibel," she faltered,
white with fear — " about his grandchildren."

What do you know about Naftali Taubenktibel ? "

Xenia felt as though her senses were deserting her ;
she began to sob helplessly.

He looked so dreadful ! " she faltered, in incoherent
terror. " I thought he would kill me on the road; and
then "

/ will kill you," said Lucyan, " unless you are

quiet this instant ! No tears, no noise ! I have borne
your simpering folly long enough. Have a care now !"
His whole face sharpened with passion. He had just
enough self-command remaining to keep him from
striking his wife, but that was all.

For once in her life Xenia found strength to check
her tears. That strength was born of her weakness.
Dumfoundered by surprise, paralysed by sheer terror,
she lay on her pillow, and the very drops on her eyelashes
seemed to hang there frozen ; she dared not
cry nor speak, she dared not look at her husband, and
she dared not look away. Trembling, and pale as
death, she cowered under his gaze.

Lucyan stood thus, with his lingers stiffly clasped
on the coverlet for a minute longer, staring hard at
Xenia's face. It was the face of a beautiful woman
to all the world; to him alone it was the face of a
fool.

After that minute he dropped the satin quilt and
stepped back. The climax of his passion was past
already.

Do not speak, do not move," he said, between his
teeth. " Leave me in peace — leave me quite in peace;"
and once more he began to pace the room with a fixed
and abstracted air, almost as though he had forgotten
the very existence of his wife.

And she lay exactly as he had told her, without

moving and without speaking ; counting the minutes
first and then the hours, as she heard the clock in the
passage strike ; peeping cautiously through her fingers
to watch Lucyan, as incessantly he paced the bedroom
floor ; shuddering a little whenever he passed the bed,
although his eyes never once moved towards her.
And as she lay and watched, wakeful all the night
through, a feeling unknown to her, a strange sensation
of loathing, crept into her heart. The fear that
she had felt of her husband hitherto had been buta
mental fear. For the first time, to-night she had
trembled before him in physical terror.

Never till to-night had any emotion of any sort
robbed Xenia of even an hour of that sweet childlike
sleep which had been her gift from infancy — the great
preserver of her beauty ; but now she lay through the
whole long night not venturing to move, though her
arm was cramped with long lying ; listening only
with strained attention for the strike of the clock, and
looking with fevered eyes for the dawn which should
deliver her.

The dawn broke at last, dull, grey, and chilly.
Lucyan was still pacing the floor, and Xenia still
lay and watched him.

CHAPTER XIV.

REVANCHE."

Yes, there be things which we must dream and dare,
And execute ere thought be half aware."

—Byron.

"I SHOULD be the happiest man alive," said Jan
Wronski, sadly, as he entered the back-shop of his
apothecary one afternoon — " I should be the happiest
man alive if only I could obtain a mad dog at this
moment."

There was no one in the back-shop but his daughter
Janina, and she scarcely raised her head as her father
entered. " Why ? " was all she said, in a listless tone.

Because I have found it now, I have got it at last ;
from this hour forth the world is delivered of one of
its greatest — I might almost venture to say, its greatest
scourge." Though the words were exultant, the tone
was not. Jan Wronski, as he announced his triumph,
looked as dismal as ever, and his hair streamed long
and lanky over his shirt-collar, thinly veiling his ears.

The specific for hydrophobia ? " answered Janina,
without any sign of surprise.

That it is, and I found it to-day."

But you found it last year, father ; and you found
it five years ago ; and you found it also the year after
I was born."

Jan Wronski waved his hand, and smiled a melancholy
smile. " Fancies, visions, foreshadowing," he
murmured, " mere shades of the reality which now
I have found ; all I need is a subject to try it on :
and therefore, as I said before, I should be the happiest
man in the world if I could obtain a mad dog."

He placed, as he spoke, a heavy glass jar on the
table ; and then, with clasped hands, stood gazing at
it in a sort of rapt ecstasy.

"A subject, a subject, — that is all that I want,
Janina. Would it not be a good plan if you stepped
into the courtyard and gave one more look at Aesculapius
his kennel ? It struck me to-day that he was not
taking his food with quite his usual eagerness. Supposing
he were to go mad " — the vision of happiness
conjured up was almost too much for Jan Wronski to
bear. He uttered a groan of mingled emotions.

No, it would not be a good plan," said Janina,
peevishly. " I am not going to the courtyard anymore.
I have been there a dozen times to-day, and
Aesculap is as sane as any dog ever was ; he stole half

VOL. III. G

a cold chicken this afternoon. I tell you, father, he is
hopelessly sane."

Jan sighed despondently, not so much over the lost
half chicken, as over the incontestable proof of Aescu-
lap's sanity which it afforded. Innumerable times
already had the unfortunate Aesculap been suspected
of madness, only to clear himself brilliantly of the
imputation. His appetite and humours were studied
by his master with a critical and a watchful eye. Jan
Wronski was] careful every year at Easter-time not tolet
Aesculap taste any morsel of the blest laban, which
the country-people generally regard as a preservative
against hydrophobia ; but it was all in vain. Not only
did Aesculap refuse to go mad, but he had hitherto
shown himself possessed of a mind more regularly
balanced than most of his fellows.

To think that it only wants a subject," said Jan,
gazing at the glass jar lovingly. " It was at twenty-one
minutes past four that I made the discovery — (I
mention the moment, as it will doubtless become historical.)
Three drops — no more than three drops out
of this bottle — gave the finishing-touch to my work,
clenched the business in fact, if I may so express
myself," — and opening his fingers, he disclosed a high
and narrow glass bottle, containing a colourless fluid.
Do you see that bottle, Janina ? "

Yes," she said, indifferently. " What is it ? "

It is poison — a deadly poison — with a Latin name
which you could not understand and would not remember.
Are you attending to me, Janina ? "

"Yes," said Janina, with a movement of weary
impatience.

''If you give three drops out of that bottle to a
person in health, it will kill him in five minutes ; and
if you give the same quantity to a man bitten by
a mad dog, it will cure him in ten. Is that not a
magnificent mystery of Nature ? "

Very," said Janina, staring at the bottle vacantly.

I was very near it yesterday," maundered on Jan.
I had laid the foundation, the groundwork, as it
were, but those three drops were the crown of my
efforts." Slowly and carefully he placed the bottle
on the table beside the glass jar. Upon the same
table were ranged various small boxes, pots, and
bottles, all waiting to be done up in white paper.

"Ah, the orders for tomorrow ! " said Jan, sighing
a little, as his eye fell upon them, and giving his lanky
mane a spiritless shake. It was a sacrifice to step
down from the heights, to leave his discovered specific
for ordinary pills and powders which other men had
discovered long ago.

The names are not marked, Janina : how is this ? "

Could I guess the names ? " she retorted, impatiently.


To be sure," said Jan, who was rather in awe of
his daughter's temper ; " I forgot to give you the list.
Here, I will dictate, and you can write ; " and pulling
out a strip of paper, Jan began the dictation : " Tonic
powders — Madame Dulceska (the last didn't agree,
I have changed the colour of the paper) ; digestive
pills — Professor Kluski (see that the dozen is not complete
— a useless extravagance, nobody ever counts
their pills) ; sleeping-drops — six drops on sugar night
and morning — Pan Bielinski (remember to put a gold
paper round the cork). Why are you not writing,
Janina?" for Janina, with her pen in her hand, was
gazing upwards instead of writing.

Pan Bielinski," she repeated. " Which Pan Bien
? "

The Pan Bielinski, of course ; the Marszalek, not
the hussar captain — no hussar ever needs sleeping-drops
; and not the other, for he is not likely to awake
just yet," said Jan, with a laugh; the apothecary
rather prided himself on these dismal jokes. " It is
Lucy an Bielinski of Wowasulka."

And he wants sleeping-drops ? "

He sent for them this afternoon ; he has suffered
from headaches lately, and is disturbed in his sleep."

He may well be."

What is that you said 1 "

Did I say anything ? It was a mistake, — go on ; "

but though she dipped the pen in ink, Janina could
not succeed in forming the big B for the Marszalek's
name. She made two vain attempts to steady her
hand, and then, throwing down the pen, she gave
it up.

Are you ill ? " asked her father, not exactly with
interest, but with surprise. In flinging down the pen
she had all but knocked over his precious bottle, and
having hastily rescued the top-heavy flask, he looked
at his daughter reproachfully.

"Yes, I am ill," said Janina, grimly. "Has that
never struck you before?"

Jan looked at his daughter with a passing touch of
alarm. " You do look rather pale to-day ; I cannot
say that I ever noticed it ; I am so busy always, you
know." So he was, poor man, and always had been,
far too busy to notice his daughter's doings and looks.
To him she was not a daughter ; he had no daughter,
he had a machine — a machine which mixed pills and
cut out paper rounds and wrote labels. She listened,
without hearing them, to his lectures on hydrophobia,
and she occasionally frightened him with a burst of
temper. But he had got used to that; all machines
get out of order at times. To-day it struck him that
the machine was more seriously out of order than
usual.

I fancy you used to be pretty, Janina," he said,

dismally — " that was my impression at least ; but T
do not think you are pretty now. Do you really think
you are too ill to write those names ? The medicine
will be sent for to-night, you know."

Janina took up her pen again wearily. Her father
bustled about a minute longer ; placed the jar on a
shelf, and the high glass bottle beside it. Having
done this, he took up a brush and began smoothing
his lanky hair ; then, with an undecided glance towards
his daughter, who never raised her head, he
proceeded nervously to trim his nails : finally, with
a sudden resolution, he seized his hat and umbrella,
and coughed loudly to attract Janina's attention.

She looked up with a frown. The sight of her
father, hat in hand, appeared to give her some sort
of a shock. "Are you going?" she asked, with a
look of fear.

Yes, on some business." Jan's business consisted
just then in paying a round of visits. He was about
to drop in upon each of his intimates in turn, and,
under the seal of secrecy, to impart to the bookbinder,
the hairdresser, and the confectioner, the news of the
discovery which burned on his tongue. "You will
mind that the packets are neatly done up, Janina," he
added; "and you will keep an eye on the shop. I
shall not be gone much more than an hour."

So long ! " she said, with a shudder. " Do not go,

father," she cried, all at once ; and rising with unexpected
energy, she crossed the room and threw her
arms around him. Such exhibitions of tenderness were
so rare, that they were apt to embarrass Jan Wronski.
He was overwhelmed with embarrassment now, as well
as suffocated, by his daughter's embrace.

Dear me ! to be sure, why should I not go ? You
don't want me for the labels, do you ? "

I — I am afraid," said Janina, in a whisper. Her
father gave a good-natured laugh, and absently patted
her cheek. He was in mind already watching the
envious glance of the hairdresser's eye as the news
of the great discovery was broken to him. The hairdresser,
it must be understood, had for five years past
been working at a rival discovery — a pomatum which
was to banish baldness from the world.

"Dear me, Janina, what a child you are for your
age ! There — let me go," and unclasping her hands
he made straight for the door. He was opening it,
when his daughter's voice recalled him.

Will you not take away that bottle ? " she was
saying, speaking slowly, and with her eyes bent obstinately
before her.

Which bottle ? "

The bottle with that white stuff — with that poison."

Why should I take it away ? " inquired the dismal
apothecary.

Something might happen to it — it might fall : the
shelf is narrow."

I will put it on a broader one. There — it is quite
safe."

But I wish you would take it away."

Why ? "

It makes me sick to look at it."

That was no reason for Jan Wronski. " Don't look
at it then," he would have said, had he been quicker
at repartee. But he was too slow for that ; he merely
shook his head with an air of melancholy wonder, and
gently closed the door behind him. He opened it once
more, and whispered through the chink, " Don't forget
the gold paper on the Marszalek's medicine ; take the
ribbed sheet, you know." Janina made no answer.
She stood for a minute, just as her father had left her,
with her eyes fixed on the floor ; while the arms which
he had shaken from him sank slowly down to her
sides. Then she went back to her chair, and resumed
her arrangements of paper and twine. And all this
time her heavy eyelids were sunk so low over her
eyes, that they appeared as though glued there. It
was a dark afternoon, and a drizzly rain was beginning
to fall. In the apothecary's back shop the light was
spare ; and after the front door had fallen shut behind
Jan, the silence became almost complete. The rain
dripped past the window ; and now and then a goose

cackled in the yard, and occasionally Aesculap emerged
from his medicine-chest, and rattled his chain as he
shook himself; but such subdued sounds scarcely
broke the silence for Janina. Silence was hateful
to her at all times, — it was insupportable to-day.
She fastened up the powders for Madame Dulceska,
she counted out the pills for Professor Kluski,
taking care to give him one pill less than the dozen, —
and yet she saw neither pills nor powders. Though
she never looked towards it, she saw nothing but that
high glass bottle on the shelf, with the colourless white
fluid. It seemed to her that in the whole room there
was nothing but that one bottle ; that she was alone
with it, for all the other jars and boxes around. She
fancied that the bottle had eyes, and was watching her ;
she fancied that it had fingers, and was beckoning to
her ; that it had a tongue, and was whispering to her.
The sleeping-draught was the last of the medicines
to be fastened up. Janina reached it in due course of
time, and deliberately unfolding a sheet of gold paper,
she began cutting out the round she required. It was
not until the round was all but completed that she
appeared able to sit still no longer. Dropping the
scissors, the paper, and upsetting a box of pills, she
rose abruptly to her feet.

Now at last she raised her eyes and looked slowly
about her. She looked at everything in the room first :

at the walls, at the ceiling, at the tables and chairs ; and
last of all, with a defiant turn of the head, she looked
at the shelf where the high white bottle stood. Having
once looked at it, she could not look away ; and she
could not keep away. That colourless fluid — did it
not look as pure as crystal, as innocent as any water
which ever bubbled over mountain-stone ? How could
it look so harmless and be so deadly ? Poison ! was
it really poison ? She would like to convince herself,
and already she was crossing the room. It seemed to
her that she was being drawn towards that shelf, like
a ship towards a loadstone rock ; that white bottle was
calling to her so loudly to come near it, to touch it, to
uncork it and smell it. Janina had placed a chair
beside the shelf, and mounting upon it had taken down
the bottle. Before she touched it, she kept quiet fora
moment, listening. If her father should come back
now — if a customer should enter the front shop !
Would it be her ruin or her salvation ? Was it with
dread or with longing that she listened ? But no —
the opportunity was perfect. Jan was just then safely
ensconced beside the confectioner's oven, and no customer
came near the shop ; there was only the sound
of the rain in the water-butt, and a feeble quack in the
yard, and another rattle of Aesculap's chain. Alas
that it was all so silent and so still, — so silent and
so safe for Janina ! When she reached the floor again.

she stood leaning breathless against the wall ; for the
stretching had fatigued her, and for a moment she
feared to faint.

Presently she recovered, and looked down at the
bottle she held. " Sleeping-drops," she said aloud ;
he wants something that will make him sleep : why
should he not have it ? What was it my father said ?
Three drops given to a person in health, — yes, yes ;
that would do. Has my time come at last ? "

The hour was past, and Jan was not yet returned.
Janina could bear it no longer — could bear the stillness
and the loneliness no longer. Snatching up her
shawl, and leaving the shop to the mercy of fate, she
walked out into the rain.

The town was far behind her before she thought of
looking round ; and then only she noticed that the
dusk was creeping in. Upon the dusk would follow
the darkness, and upon the darkness would come the
light of another day. And that other day; what would
it bring ? Misery and remorse ; shame and disgrace.
They were upon her already. With sudden terror she
now thought of what she had done. Perhaps it was
the sharpness of the October air which had given her
back her senses, — the question was, whether it had
cjiven them back too late.

Janina started homewards, running in the teeth of
the rain. She had no notion how lonsf she had been

gone from home, nor how late it was ; but the falling
dusk filled her with apprehension.

On the Place she passed Professor Kluski's little
boy, bearing away the incomplete dozen of pills which
were to assist his papa's digestion; on the door-steps
she ran against Madame Dulceska's cook, carrying off
her mistress's powders ; and brushing past this indignant
female, she burst breathless into the shop.

Has the Marszalek sent for his sleeping-drops ? "
she inquired fiercely of her father, who stood behind
the counter.

No, he has not," answered Jan, somewhat testily.
He had intended to receive his daughter with a reprimand
for her abandonment of the shop ; but he looked
at her face and changed his mind.

Then they are here still ? "

No, they are not ; I gave them to a man who
passed the door on his way to Wowasulka. How you
have been running ! Was it because you forgot the
gold paper ? " asked Jan, anxiously.

No," said Janina, with a strange laugh ; " I put the
gold paper on." And a minute later she asked, " Who
has taken the bottle ? "

It was Aitzig Majulik, who, passing that way, had
been espied by Jan Wronski ; and who, for a consideration
of course, had consented to carry the Marszalek's
medicine to Wowasulka.

CHAPTER XY.

JANINA THROWS UP HER CARDS.

Oh, agony of fear !
Would that he yet might live ! "

The Cenci : Shelley.

The early October dusk was stealing over the world,
when the door of the Wowasulka drawing-room slowly
opened, and with her finger on her lip, and a skirt
which trailed black and noiseless behind her, there
entered on tiptoe, Mademoiselle Eobertine.

Having closed the door with extreme caution, she
advanced to the centre of the room, and there came
to a standstill, carefully shading the candle she held,
and shooting glances of scrutiny and criticism into the
furthest and the darkest corners of the apartment.
Had there been any spectator present to witness Eobertine's
entry, he surely could not have suppressed a
prison — a cold shudder of awe and curiosity — as she
stood thus, black, motionless, inscrutable, gazing slowly
to the right and to the left. The room, commonplace

and everyday before, assumed all at once a look of
mystery. Every shadow deepened as though to hide
a secret. She brought the atmosphere into the room
with her, as she entered by the door : it was the only
sort she could live in. Wowasulka would never have
been Eobertine's home for so long had Lucyan not
known how, by artificial means, to preserve this atmosphere
around her. He kept her money for her,
and managed it for her too ; and there was so much
delicious secrecy about the locking up of that money
and the doling out of it, and so many charmingly
mysterious consultations concerning it, that Eobertine
many a time blessed her youngest nephew in her heart,
admired his discretion, prudence, and delicate tact,
and never for a moment doubted the extreme advantage
of leaving her money in his hands.

What dark deed, then, had this awful woman come
to do in this dark hour ? Was she preparing to elope 1
But where was to be found a man with such reckless
boldness ? Was she a second Lady Macbeth ? And
was that a dagger she held ?

No, it was only a key. That key locked the cupboard
in the dining-room. To hide every key in her
charge was a necessity of Eobertine's nature ; but she
had found no place to-night which could satisfy her,
regarding the safety of the cupboard-key.

"The top of the clock is too slippery," she murmured,

" and the hole in the footstool is getting too
big. Last time I rammed it down the sofa back, but
I am afraid the servants have guessed the place."

Carefully lifting a corner of the carpet she placed
the key underneath ; then shook her head and withdrew
it. She tried to bury it in an old pile oiJournaux
des Demoiselles ; she attempted to make it disappear
among the bushy twigs of one of Lucyan's window-plants,
— her genius was indefatigable, but dissatisfied.
After each trial she retired a few steps, and, with her
head on one side, stood to view the effect. She went
out by the door and came in again, in order to assure
herself personally of what a stranger could see. But
the carpet appeared to her to be transparent, and the
rhododendron looked treacherous; and, with another
shake of the head, the key would be withdrawn, and
intrusted to another place.

Twice she wandered round the room disconsolate.
The third time an idea struck her. The white porcelain
stove had attracted her eye. Crouching down
beside it, she opened the small brass door. There,
smooth, soft, and grey, lay a bed of ashes. So deep,
so safe a bed for the precious key to sleep in. Tenderly
she laid it to rest ; carefully, with her long lean
fingers, did she rake the ashes over it.

It was a stroke of genius, and Kobertine thought
so ; but even now, at the eleventh hour, and after the

little brass door was shut again, she began to doubt.
What if the snow should come overnight and the
stove be lit next morning ? "What if a servant should
take it into his head to clear away the last year's
ashes? Would not the rhododendron be safer? or
perhaps the door-mat ? And Libertine stood hesitation,
with grave misgivings in her mind. She thought
yes, she was almost sure — she remembered how
Kazimir last spring had opened the grating to throw
in a cigar-stump. Supposing he did it again ! Kazimir
was her bugbear : he concentrated in his person more
dangers to her secrets than all the rest of the world
put together. His spurs tore up carpets, his sleeves
brushed down vases, and laid bare her mysteries to
the light of the day. He was always sure to interrupt
her mysterious interviews with tradesmen, and to burst
in just at the mystic moment when she was telling the
butcher's boy in a hushed voice to bring eight cutlets
next day. And now, what was that step in the passage
? Eobertine trembled as she listened. If it were
Kazimir, and he should enter at this moment !

But Libertine's mind might have been at rest ; that
step in the passage was not Kazimir's. Kazimir, just
then, was at some distance from the spot, riding along
through the rain with his back turned to Wowasulka.
He had been in Tarajow seeing after some regimental
business, and he was on his way home now. Some

(lays had passed since he had last been at Wowasulka ;
but his thoughts were there as he rode along through
the thin, fine rain, which pricked his face like needle-points.
The bridle was slippery in his hands, and
the ground was slippery under the horse's feet. Trap-pistol,
with his wet tail between his legs, and that dismal,
uncomplaining, yet spiritless resignation which
was peculiar to his character, trotted faithfully in and
out of the puddles which each footfall of his master's
horse left behind it.

The grey of the clouds melted into the grey of the
falling dusk. Indistinct forms were here and there
grouped around indistinct willow-trees : cows, standing
with drooped heads, as motionless as the willows
themselves, while the rain trickled from the branches
on their backs, and from their backs to the trampled
grass. The outlines of beasts and bushes alike were
blotted out by the mist.

Of all this Kazimir saw little, for he had drawn the
hood of his brown cloak low over his forehead, so that
his view was limited to a pair of wet horse's ears,
the bit of road, and now, on ahead, the foot-bridge
which was to be seen between them. When he was
within twenty paces of the bridge, he heard a splash
in the water, and when he had drawn a little nearer
he could see that in the blurred landscape - picture
before him, there was also a figure, blurred like the

VOL. III. H

landscape by the falling rain. It was upon the bridge
that the figure stood ; and it might have been the spot,
or it might have been the attitude, which instantly
carried back Kazimir's thoughts to that Easter-eve
last spring, the day when he had heard that a Wowa-
sulla letter awaited him at home.

He had crossed the ford at least a hundred times
since, and a hundred times passed by that lonely
bridge; but never except on that day, and on this,
had that figure, or any figure, stood there.

Before he had got much nearer Kazimir recognised
that it was the same figure. A woman, with a shawl
around her, leaning over the railing, her back to him,
and her eyes on the water. It almost seemed to
Kazimir as if she had stood thus ever since, splashing
stones into the water, just as she had done on
Easter-eve.

"Good evening," he called out as he reached the
edge of the stream. He had not spoken to Janina since
their meeting on this spot, nor had he in fact set eyes
on her from that day to this. Of all that had passed
between the apothecary's daughter and Marcin, he
had but a very dim notion. On the day of his
brother's funeral he had not been able to quit his
station, and of the stormy incident which had occurred
then, he knew only as much as Lucy an had thought
fit to tell him.

At the sound of his voice Janina turned, and before
he had time to follow up his careless greeting with
any other word she had left the bridge, and with two
precipitate steps towards him, almost sprang at his
horse's reins.

Stop ! wait ! turn back 1 " she panted, short of
breath." You must not cross that stream ; you must
go back at once — at once ! "

What is it ? " asked Kazimir in alarm, for Janina's
face, as he saw it close before him, seemed to him very
much like the face of a maniac. AVith both hands
she was pulling at the reins, while the frightened horse
backed snorting before her.

What is it ? What has happened ? Why are you
here ? " he asked, stunned with surprise.

I am here to meet you ; I have waited for you
there on that bridge ; I have waited for an hour, for
more than an hour. I thought you would pass this
way ; I thought you could not escape me here. Have
you been at Wowasulka 1 ''

No, not to-day."

"Go there at once ; " and with all her strength she
tugged the horse round, despite its plunging ; while
Kazimir, dum foundered by her violence, and bewildered
by the whole occurrence, sat passive through
it all.

Why must I go to Wowasulka ? "

Something has happened there."

An accident ? "

A dreadful accident — a fearful accident ; will you
not go ? — it may be too late. Oh, will you not go ? "

But I know nothing, you have told me nothing,"
said Kazimir, beginning to be seriously although
vaguely alarmed. " Is — is it Xenia, my sister-in-law ?
Is she ill ? "

No, it is not her. Have you a heart ? "

I think I have."

Save your brother, then ! Say you will save him ! "

Tell me how," said Kazimir, watching her with
some misgivings.

All this time she had been dragging the horse by
its bridle along the path which he had just traversed.
Now she stopped as if in sudden weakness, and
standing beside him in the rain, she fixed her black
and burning eyes upwards on his face. She had been
a pretty woman when Kazimir had seen her in spring ;
but the months that were past, and the emotions
which they had brought, had worked fearful havoc
with her youth and her freshness; she was almost
ugly to look at now.

"Tell me what I can do," said Kazimir, looking
down at her.

Your brother lias got sleeping-drops," she breathlessly
explained.

I daresay he has. Well ? "

He will take them to-night."

Very likely."

And they are poisoned."

That cannot be," was Kazimir's instinctive answer.

I tell you that they are. I — I — oh God, I poisoned
them myself ! "

Impossible," said Kazimir, who, the more he
looked at her face, felt the more convinced that she
was mad.

She seemed to read that look through the dusk, and
her ear detected the pity in his voice.

You think I am mad ! " lie cried, bursting into a
paroxysm of convulsive though tearless sobs. "You
think I am raving, and you will not believe me ; and
I — oh, I counted on you. You were my last hope ;
you might have saved it all. I waited for you. Oh
how, how shall I make you understand me? How
shall I make you believe me ? "

Thus, and in still wilder words, she raved for some'
minutes more ; and Kazimir watched the noisy exhibitions
of her agony in silence. In his present bewilderment
there was nothing that he could say or do
to help them both out of this inexplicable and undefinable
dilemma.

When she had sobbed thus for a minute or two
without receiving any check from Kazimir, she began

to recognise the necessity for immediate calmness.
As long as she continued to exhibit this violence, so
long would he continue to doubt her sanity ; and the
first necessity was that he should recognise that she
was sane, and believe the story which she had to tell
him. She forced back her tears, dashing her hand
across her eyes ; she pulled the wet leaves off the
nearest willow-bush, twisting them between her fingers
in her frantic attempts at regaining calmness.

Listen to me," she said, in quite another tone this
time. " I will convince you that I am sane. Will
you listen to me for five minutes ? "

Certainly," said Kazimir.

Tell me, then," she laid her two hands on his arm,
and Kazimir noticed that they were quite steady
now, — " tell me whether you ever heard your brother
Marcin spoken of in connection with me ? "

Yes," said Kazimir, reluctantly, " I have."

Tell me what you heard exactly."

He looked before him and was silent.

I understand ; yes, you are too noble and delicate-minded
to say it, but I understand quite well. You
heard that he was my lover, but you heard quite
wrong. He was my husband."

Kazimir turned his head and looked at her carefully
through the dusk.

I was his wife for four years. He would have

married me openly first, but his mother refused her
consent, and after that he married me secretly. We
were married in the Tarajow church; but the 
church has been burnt down since. You
must have heard of how he asked his mother's consent?"


Yes, I heard of that," said Kazimir, still watchings
her face.

And do you believe me 1 " she asked, suspiciously.

Yes."

You believe that your brother married me ? " she
asked again, not quite credulous.

Yes, I believe it."

I bless you for that," she cried, with another
hysterical sob ; and seizing upon his hand, she would
have kissed it, if he had not prevented her. " I told
the same story to your brother in almost the same
words, and he "

Yes," said Kazimir, as she broke off and stood fora
moment with clenched hands and fixed eyes. The
murderous mood was upon her again.

He did not believe me ; he scorned me ; he laughed
and smiled ; he stroked my shoulder as though I had
been a plaything ; he drove me wild ; he made me
mad. I have seen that look before me for two months
past ; I saw it to-day as I mixed the poison. Do you
understand now about the poison ? " she asked, with a

quick change of tone, and she clutched his arm. " Do
you not see?"

Kazimir was beginning to understand. " You put
poison in the medicine ? " he asked, slowly.

Yes ;" she hung her head ; " but I would not
have done it if it had been to revenge myself alone ;
but I was mad with the thought of my child, and
as the time came near I became desperate. I am a
wretched, wretched woman, but I bless you for believing
me. Tell me again that it is quite true you
believe me."

It was quite true. Kazimir had been startled, but
he had not doubted her word for a moment. Even
had there not been so much terrible truth on the face
of Janina's story, it scarcely would have occurred to
him to doubt a woman's solemn word. Perhaps this
propensity was but another phase of what Lucyan
called his folly. He was, to use Heine's phrase, a
knight who was ready to break a lance for the purity
of every lily — a universal champion of womankind —
an enthusiast who went about armed to the teeth, as
ready to fight for the spotlessness of Mary Queen of
Scots as for that of an organ-grinder's daughter who
should happen to be wronged in his presence, — a man
who thought that good women were perfect, indifferent
women good, and bad women unfortunate. Janina

having told her story to such a man as this, what
wonder that she was believed ? more especially as her
story happened to be true. His tone reassured her,
and softened her perhaps ; for her tears began to flow
now, as she stood for a minute quite silent on the
pathway. A mournful wind was sweeping over the
willows, and, as the wet leaves were blown backwards,
they shivered and turned ghastly white in the dusk.
These silent listeners seemed to grow pale and to
tremble, hearing Janina's story.

This afternoon I mixed the poison," said Janina,
after that short pause, " and this evening the drops
were carried to Wowasulka. To-night your brother is
to take them, and the first dose will kill him ; do you
understand ? "

Yes," said Kazimir, gathering up his reins, though
he felt still rather confused ; " I will go."

"Thank God! you will save your brother; but — ;
but," she stammered, " what will you say ? "

"I do not know," said Kazimir; "but I shall not'
betray you."

"Ah!" she breathed a sigh of relief; even though
she was wound up to the pitch of self-betrayal, to be
thus shielded filled her with a sudden sense of comfort
and security. " But only go quick, or you may
come too late. Quick, quick ! " Her excitement was

beginning to break out again, now that the restraint
was lifted. " Why do you not go on ? Why do you
not spur your horse ? "

He was spurring his horse already — he was gone
while she spoke; and Janina stood on the pathway
alone with the shuddering, whispering willows.

CHAPTER XVI.

HIGH PLAY.

"And now (as oft in some distempered state),
On one nice trick depends the general fate.
An Ace of Hearts steps forth."

Pope.

Through the darkness and the rain Kazimir galloped
all the way to Wowasulka. He had been rather slow
to take fire ; rather reluctant, through sheer stupefaction,
to give credit to Janina's story ; but now he saw
and believed, and trembled lest he should come too
late. Being of an imaginative temperament, there is
no saying in what extravagant fancies he may have
indulged during that wild ride through the rain, —
how he may have seen himself spring from the saddle
just in time to dash the cup from Lucyan's lip, — or
reaching the house to find that it was already a house
of mourning. The image of that woman's face, with
the guilt and terror stamped upon it, and the image
of Lucyan measuring out his fatal dose, rose alternately
before his eyes. His horse was still at full

gallop as its hoofs clattered over the garden gravel,
and the first thing Kazimir saw was that the bedroom
windows were dark, while there was a light in the
drawing-room. He breathed a little more freely. If
Lucyan was still in the drawing-room he would most
likely not have taken his sleeping-drops yet. There
was some hope now that he had reached aright. He
scarcely took time to fasten his horse to the nearest
rose-bush before he hastily entered the house.

In the long passage within it was all pitch-dark ;
but Kazimir, groping his way forward with his hands
before him, had scarcely made two steps when he
heard a whisper.

Is that you, Kazimir ? "

"Yes," he said, standing still, for it was Xenia's
voice which had spoken ; he knew it on the instant,
as he would have known it amongst a thousand others.
But there was a note in the crystal bell not as clear
nor as serene as usual ; the silver flute was tuned to
a minor key.

Oh, I am so glad you have come ! " she said, with a
half sob. " Where are you ? Are you near me ? " There
was a rustle of drapery, and in another minute there
was a small soft hand feeling along Kazimir's wet
coat, and all down the sleeve, till it reached his hand.
The fingers fastened around his and clung there. " Oh,
you must not go," she said ; " I hoped you would come

at last ; " and still holding him by the hand, she drew
him on a few steps along till she reached a door.
This she flung open, and light streamed out upon
them.

They stood in the drawing-room ; a shaded lamp
dimly illuminated the space, and revealed Xenia's
figure. Her teeth were chattering with cold ; a shawl
was drawn tightly round her shoulders, and some raindrops
hung upon her hair. " We are alone here," she
whispered. " Oh, I am so glad ! I have been hiding
outside all the evening; I dare not go to bed tonight."


Where is Lucyan ? " asked Kazimir, abruptly.

Xenia had not let go his hand yet. At his question
she clung to it more tightly still, and throwing a curiously
frightened glance over her shoulder, shrank a
step nearer to him.

Do not speak so loud, please ; I do not want him
to hear you."

But I must see him," said Kazimir, attempting to
withdraw his hand.

JSTot now, please — not now ; later — tomorrow."

But where is Lucyan ? " he exclaimed, half wild
with impatience, and still breathless with the haste
and excitement of the last hour.

I don't know ; in his room, I think, writing."

"Are you sure?" urged Kazimir, earnestly.

Yes, I think so ; why do you ask so much ? "

When did you see him last ? "

Xenia's fine eyebrows began to knit in displeasure.

I wish you would not talk of Lucy an," she said, ina
tone of vexation. " I want you to attend to me, and
not to Lucyan."

"He is writing in his room?" repeated Kazimir,
scarcely having heard her last words. " Are you quite
sure he is there ? "

Yes, of course I am quite sure."
" And he has not taken his medicine yet ? When is
he to take it ? "

His medicine ? " repeated Xenia, more and more
surprised, as well as provoked by this strange interest
in his brother, and this still more strange indifference
to herself. " The bottle which Aitzig Majulik brought ?
Oh, I don't know ; before he goes to bed, I suppose."

Are you quite sure he is not ill ? "

Xenia shrugged her shoulders. " He may be ill ; I
think he must be, or he could not behave to me ashe
does. Oh, Kazimir ! I have suffered so much, so
dreadfully ! I cannot bear it any more. A second
night like that would kill me ; it really would. Do
you know that I did not close my eyes last night fora
moment — not for one single moment?" She raised
them slowly to his face as she spoke. That terror,
sadness, distress, who knows what, which rang in her

voice, was mirrored in her widely opened eyes and in
every line of her shrinking figure. The lids were
heavy from want of sleep; the tender colour was
faded from her face, almost gone from her lips ; her
hair was ruffled and disordered. And yet she was
almost more beautiful thus than in the smiling serenity
of her everyday beauty. Her blue eyes, encircled by
dark lines, seemed to have grown black in the shadow ;
every line of her features was deepened, while in her
hair the rain-drops sparkled like diamonds.

Kazimir read all these signs in the dim lamp-light,
but he read them in an indistinct and far-off' way, for
he was still too full, mind and body, of the errand on
which he had come ; his pulses were still flying in too
hot a haste to let him be quite sensible of Xenia's
look. A cloud of excitement hung before his eyes,
dividing him from her for the moment.

And while he stood thus, feeling her beauty, without
quite realising that he did so, there was the sound
of a distant door opening, and in the same minute
Lucyan's step was heard in the passage.

He is coming in here ! " was the thought which
struck them both, although neither of them spoke it.
Had Kazimir been calmer, he would have been frightened
by the pallor which spread over Xenia's face,
as, with parted lips, she stood and listened to her
husband's steps.

But Liicyan was not coming in here. The step
passed close to the door without pausing, — passed on
till it reached another door, which quickly was opened
and closed.

That was the bedroom door, Kazimir knew from
the sound ; and now the moment for action was surely
come. Lucyan had in all probability gone there to
take his sleeping-drops. The situation could scarcely
be more urgent than it was. With a wrench Kazimir
tore away his hand, and reached the door ; but Xenia's
fingers closed over his again as he touched the handle ;
and once more he was held back.

There were tears of vexation in her eyes now as she
raised them to his.

Why do you treat me so, Kazimir ? why will you
go when I ask you to stay ? I have so much to tell
you ; I want to ask your advice : why will you go
away ? "

Because there is something that I have to do."

Cannot you wait a little longer ? I am sure there
is no hurry ; I wish you were not so unkind ! "

But I cannot wait," said Kazimir, in an agony.
"Every minute is fearfully precious. Let me go, I
entreat you."

Not unless you tell me what it is," she said, with
a half-sweet, half-pettish smile breaking through her
tears. '

It is a danger, — a great danger, — and I can avertit
if you let me go."

"A danger?" her eyes dilated in alarm. " What is
it about ? "

It is about Lucy an."
Go on."

There has been an attempt, — no, I mean there has
been a mistake : there is poison in his medicine ! "

Poison ! " Xenia's pale face lost its last trace of
colour.

"Yes; but it is not yet too late: it only needs one
word to save him, — only you must let me go."
'' What will you do if I let you go ? "
I will save him, of course ; have I not told you
so?"

"Yes." Her eyes, wide and distended, were fixed
upon his face ; she was still as pale as before, but her
tears had been suddenly checked.

And if I do not let you go ? " Unconsciously as she
said it, her fingers tightened upon his sleeve.

It would be too late then," said Kazimir, startled
at the tone of her voice.
Too late to save him ? "
Yes."

And he would die then ? " she asked, below her
breath, shuddering at the word even while she said it.
Yes, I fear so."

VOL. in. I

And if he should die ? " she said, very slowly; and
at that moment — dangerous, terrible moment — their
eyes met full.

She stared at him some seconds longer, and then
she burst into tears.

Do not go," she sobbed, with her face in her hands.
Do not go to him ; stay here."

The words were clear ; yet Kazimir doubted whether
he heard aright. Gazing at her, he stood rooted to the
spot, and her sobbed-out words poured upon his ear.

I can bear it no longer ; I hate him, — I hate
him ! " It was by far the strongest expression which
Xenia had used in her life, — as this burst of tears also
was the thing nearest approaching a passion of which
this sweet and flower-like woman had ever been guilty.
But even in the midst of it she remained sweet and
flower-like still. She stood and sobbed, frightened at
herself, — frightened at the words she had used, yet
not withdrawing them; terrified at the thought betrayed,
yet not disowning it. What had she said?
She had not meant it,— that is to say, yes ; at least
she meant that she did not know ; only she was very
miserable — miserable.

Kazimir, shocked and distressed — pained that so
soft a creature should have been capable of so hard a
thought, — stood by and listened. From the moment
of Janina's confession and entreaty, his haste had

been so great that he had never paused to analyse the
situation. The necessity of saving his brother had
been the only thing he saw ; consequences and possibilities
had had no place in his mind. But Xenia's
words, — more still, her look — that glance between
them, — had startled him into perfect consciousness.

Ay, what if Lucyan should die ? What then ?
Dimly he began to understand what would be then.
The fire which he had caught from Janina seemed to
go out suddenly. Was it Xenia's tears that quenched
it?

Her beauty — indistinct and far off a minute ago —
became real and close again to his fully awakened
senses. He stood and looked upon the graceful figure,
the rounded shoulders that heaved with sobs — the
beautifully drooped head upon which the rain-drops
shone ; and as he listened to her narrative, the urgency
of the moment, the danger and the hurry, all gave way
to a sense of burning indignation.

I thought he would strike me," she said ; " I thought
he would kill me ; he glared at me so with his dreadful
eyes ; and oh, Kazimir, he called me a fool ! "

Is that true ? " asked Kazimir ; and his right hand
clenched.

It is true, — it is quite true."

He treated you like that ? "

Yes ; and that was not the worst : he said that —

oh, it is SO dreadful! — he said I was losing my
looks ! I cannot bear it any more,— I have been hiding
from him all the evening. Oh, Kazimir ! dear
Kazimir ! what am I to do ? Can you not help me ?
Can you not take me away ? I should be safe with
you!"

Her frightened eyes were fixed upwards on his face ;
and once more her hand sought his. He knew everyone
of her glances, and each of her gestures, by heart ;
he had studied their grace and their charm continually;
but this glance and this gesture he did not
know. There was something in her eyes, wild and
tear-blurred as they were, which had never before
been there. That look he had never seen, — not in the
salt-mine, not in the sledge-drive, not on the day when
he had given her back the flower. This was something
beyond coquetry, — something beyond flirtation.
This he had once hoped for as the greatest prize in
life, and despaired of obtaining, and wept for, because
it was stolen from him. ,

The weeks and months past had worked this change :
Lucyan's sneers had worked it almost more than Kashmir's
love. Lucyan had succeeded at last in wearying
out even her meekness. She had borne her slavery as
few slaves do. She might have forgiven his burst of
fury ; she might have digested the insult of being called
a fool; but to be told that she was losing her looks had

lashed even her gentle spirit into rebellion. She was
wound up to the highest pitch of passion possible to
her. So far as she could hate, she hated her husband ;
so far as she could love, she loved his brother.

For Kazimir it was a terrible moment. There was
a mingling of joy and horror in the discovery he had
made. Like a pair of foolish children, they had played
with fire, and this moment was their punishment.
She loved him, and was clinging to him for protection,
was imploring him to deliver her. And it was so
easy to do so : there was but that one life between
them ; a few minutes and that life might be no more.
Was not that poor distracted Janina perhaps but the
instrument of Providence ? How could the man deserve
to live who had called Xenia a fool? Impossible
! Kazimir's heart cried out for revenge, — revenge
for his cheated love, revenge for his stolen birthright.
It was the destroyer of his happiness whom he was
asked to save. Oh, it was too much ! this could not
be justice.

Such thoughts come to good men as easily as to bad
ones ; and good men listen to them sometimes, and
sometimes good men fall. For we are so weak, even
the strongest of us ; and the greatest, after all, so very
small.

To gain back by a single stroke all that he had lost !
A tempting demon whispered it ; and Kazimir listened,

drinking in the sweet temptation. He stood there,
hesitating, bewildered ; torn by a hundred distracting
thoughts; puzzled by a hundred doubts, which were
new and strange to him ; dazzled by the betrayal of
Xenia's love ; and surely — oh yes, surely — made happy
by it. That something within him was jarred, and had
been jarred since, in her first outburst, she called on
him not to go to Lucy an, he indistinctly felt. Did she
now want him to go? Did she want him to stay?
She stood there, behind the impenetrable shield of her
tears — not asking him to stay, nor telling him to go,
not speaking, only weeping unanswerable and un-answering
floods. Such floods, even wept by angels,
are often more perilous than the most demoniacal
temptation.

Ah, Kazimir, Kazimir ! honourable man though you
be, was it Honour alone which gave you the victory
at this moment ? Was it Virtue alone which made the
dark cloud to pass ? Or was it that, even while you
gazed and listened, the temptation, unknown to yourself,
unacknowledged by you, was weakening ?

How it was Kazimir did not know; but he found
his strength again, and dashed from the room.

CHAPTEK XVII.

A Ideal.

For 'tis a truth well known to most,
That whatsoever thing is lost,
We seek it, ere it come to light,
In every cranny but the right."

COWPER.

As he flung open the bedroom door, Kazimir saw
Lucyan standing beside a further table, with his back
turned. He looked round slowly as his brother
entered.

Thank heavens ! " was Kazimir's first word.

You here, Kazimir ? "

Where is your medicine ? " asked Kazimir, not calm
enough to attempt any explanation.

Do you know what o'clock it is ? "

"No," said Kazimir, rather wildly; "it may be
midnight for aught I know, or mid-day. Where is
your medicine?"

That is exactly what / want to know," said Lucyan,
irritably, " and exactly what no one can tell me."

I do not understand you "

I daresay not ; as little as I can understand aunt
Eobertine. What on earth makes that cursed old
woman shuffle away her keys into infernally mysterious
holes, which she cannot herself trace an hour
afterwards, far surpasses my comprehension."

But that is not the question," said Kazimir, surprised
at this tone and language, of which he had
never before known his brother to be guilty. " What
has the key got to do with your medicine ? "

What have you got to do with my medicine, if I
may ask ? "

"Everything on earth. You have not taken it
yet?"

I have not had the chance."

But it is in the house ? "

Lucyan shrugged his shoulders. " Que sais-je ? It
reached the house, at all events."

"By AitzigMajulik?"

Yes. How do you happen to know ? " asked Lucyan,
staring at his brother.

By a chance. And where is it now ? "

"In the jam-cupboard, I believe," said Lucyan,
grimly; "but where the key of the jam-cupboard is
you need not ask me. Aunt Eobertine has juggled it
away, according to her invariable habit. Every key of
every cupboard in the house has been daily hidden, I

believe ; but I shall put a stop to this," said Lucyan,
sternly. "That old woman is becoming worse than
useless ; her memory is failing her. I should have
taken my sleeping-drops long ago if it had not been
for aunt Eobertine."

Dear aunt Eobertine ! " broke out Kazimir, with
a burst of unexpected affection. "Dear, good aunt
Eobertine ! I never thought that I should live to bless
her eccentricities."

Lucyan was watching his brother curiously. " When
you have quite done your raptures about aunt Libertine,
I suppose you will tell me what you are here
for."

I will tell you now : I want you not to take that
medicine."

Lucyan gave a faint smile. " Are you afraid of my
health suffering ? How considerate, mon free ! "

Yes — no," stammered Kazimir, reddening. "I want
you to promise that you will not take it."

Eeally ? And what am I to do with it, pray ? "

Throw it away," said Kazimir, without reflecting.

And your reasons ? They are excellent, no doubt."

I cannot give them."

That is a pity," said Lucyan, drily ; but in his eyes
suspicion gleamed. "They would have been worth
hearing, no doubt."

Kazimir gnawed at his under lip, not trusting himself

to speak. There rushed over him a violent repulsion
— a strong disgust of this man whose life he had
come to save, and who had treated two women as
Lucyan had treated Janina and Xenia. He had long
ago felt that he hated his brother ; but he had never
plainly told himself so until to-day. Angry words
crowded to his lips ; old wrongs awoke up again and
urged him to speak ; but he dared not trust himself,
for Janina's secret was upon his mind, and he feared
by an imprudent word to betray her.

Lucyan did not take his eyes from his brother's face,
but stood gently passing the comb through his hair.
Kazimir had never before noticed, but at this moment
he noticed, that the hair about Lucyan's temples was
beginning to turn grey. His face, as he stood now
with the lamp-light upon it, looked haggard and worn ;
the eyes were sunken, the habitual pallor intensified.

"It is no use asking me questions," said Kazimir,
after that pause ; " but there has been some mistake
about the medicine — you had better not take it, it
might "

"Disagree with me?" finished Lucyan, with fine
interrogation.

Yes, I am afraid so."

So you evidently are. And the mistake ? Do you
happen to know who made it ? "

I do not know — the bearer, I suppose," said Kashmir,

steadily ; feeling at this moment only the necessity
of shielding Janina at any price.

"AitzigMajulik?"

I daresay ; I do not know ; it is no use asking me."

Apparently not. Are you going now ? "

Kazimir was going, for he could no longer bear to
watch the sneer upon Lucyan's thin lips.

Yes, I am going ; but I shall be back tomorrow.
I promised her, — that is to say, I shall probably be
here."

"Exactly; you will happen to be passing by the
merest chance. Wowasulka lies so very conveniently
on your way ; only an insignificant detour of a couple
of miles. Oh, I understand quite well ; good-night,
ran free ! "

Lucyan stood alone in his bedroom — thinking.
So there had been a mistake about his medicine, had
there ? The medicine which Aitzig Majulik had
brought.

That mistake and its exact nature took a stronghold
upon Lucyan's mind. It was an interesting
problem ; all the more interesting because it could not
be solved to-night. It appeared that even next day
the solution was not immediately to be had ; for
morning came, and the forenoon wore on, and the key
of the jam-cupboard remained invisible.

All the interest and energy of the household seemed

to have become concentrated on that one little bit of
steel. A general and perpetual search was carried on.
Carpets were lifted, dresses were shaken out, boxes
were emptied. Every vase was peered into, and every
drawer was opened. A stranger entering the house
unannounced would have been puzzled to explain the
variety of strange positions and wholly unaccountable .
movements in which the inmates were indulging.
Everybody walked about armed with a stick, or a
broom, or a parasol, with which they poked into distant
corners and stirred up dust ; everybody got upon
chairs to explore the lofty tops of presses, and came
down again choked with more dust. Occasionally was
to be seen a person in a position entirely horizontal,
vainly attempting to gain an interview of a wardrobe
or a chest of drawers, and regaining the perpendicular,
red and breathless, and wrapped in clouds of dust.
Dust, nothing but the eternal dust !

Should the key not be found before evening, Lucyan
had resolved to send for a locksmith. Most men
would have sent for one at once ; but it always went
against the grain with Lucyan to admit that he was
baffled in any undertaking. In the meantime he had
gone to the extent of offering a florin's reward to
whichever servant should bring him the key.

What Kobertine suffered during this 
torture, the words of ordinary language are far too

feeble to describe. To her it was all thumbscrew and
rack. Every drawer that was opened wrung her heart,
every single poke that was made by an exploring
broomstick seemed to strike her mystery-loving breast.
She began by fighting for each spot in turn, but soon
had to yield before Lucyan's determination. Mournful
and desperate she followed the searchers about from
room to room and from corner to corner, watching the
devastation of all her most cherished sanctuaries, asa
mother watches the murder of her children. And
they were murdered in vain. Alas ! she knew that
neither in the curtains nor under the carpets was the
key of the jam-cupboard to be found. She knew that
the key of the storeroom was under the sofa-cushion,
and the key of the larder in a hole in the wall ; but
it was in vain that she questioned her overtaxed
memory as to the hiding-place of the jam-cupboard
key. Well might she feel mournful, for Lucyan had
hinted that henceforward all keys should remain in
his own keeping ; and what would life be to Eobertine
without keys ? And what would keys be without
hiding-places ?

Lucyan sat at table with a dark cloud upon his
brow; and Xenia sat opposite to him in unbroken
silence.

They were just rising from table, when Xenia started
and flushed at the sound of horse-hoofs on the gravel.

Ah yes," said Lucyan, with a sharp glance at his
wife — the first he had given her to-day — " he promised
that he would come again."

Is the key found ? " was Kazimir's first word.

"No," said Lucyan, shortly; "and oblige me by
shutting the door ; I never had a taste for draughts."

Lucyan shivered as he spoke ; and yet it was a mild
October day, grey and dull, but as warm and still as a
day in June. Kazimir said as much, and added that
the evening was clearing for a glorious sunset. " Come
into the garden," he said, " and you will see it."

Lucyan declined the garden. He was chilly and
restless ; he wandered away by himself; and, still
looking about him in a sort of hopeless and aimless
way for the lost key, he entered the drawing-room.
Neither of the other two followed him ; he did not
notice this until through the drawing-room window he
caught sight of his brother and his wife standing on
the gravel walk. Trappisto was beside them, earnestly
endeavouring to detach the root of a blue aster plant
from the earth.

Every flower was heavy with yesterday's rain ; but
to-night there was a burst of brilliant light in the
west, which turned all the drops of water into drops
of gold. The sharp-edged clouds, gathering together,
began to drift away in purple banks.

The garden bore a look of neglect, slight, but yet

unusual. The flowers, beaten down by the rain, had
not been tied up ; many of them lay with their
neglected faces pressed to the damp earth. • The
rotting dahlia-heads had not been clipped off, the
branch of a rose-bush trailed to the ground. And if
there was neglect hinted at in the foreground, there
was in the background outspoken destruction; for
there, beside the forest-edge, the labourers were at
work, blasting the rocks and clearing the space for
the railway.

Lucyan turned away shivering from it all. He
hated the clouds, and the sunshine which was chasing
them away ; he hated his wife and his brother ; he
almost hated his railway. He hated the world and
all things in it.

Warm and mild ! " he said aloud, bitterly. " Kashmir
calls the day warm and mild. I say that it is
cold and sharp. I am in a cold fever, I think ; my
hands are like blocks of ice," and mechanically he
held them towards the porcelain stove. " It is time
to light it," he murmured. The stoves at Wowasulka
were rarely lit before November ; " but, after all,"
thought Lucyan, as he stooped and opened the brass
door, "I am rich enough to buy wood."

A heap of grey ashes lay within ; and probably it
was only from the habit acquired to-day of sounding
every corner, that Lucyan touched the ashes with his

finger-tips. The grey heap crumbled under his hand,
and he felt something hard beneath. In the next
minute he had drawn out a large key. He looked it
all over carefully, and assured himself that this was
the key of the jam-cupboard.

''I have saved a florin," was his first instinctive
thought; he need reward no servant, and pay na
locksmith now. It is economical to find one's lost
things one's self.

Having carefully closed the brass door, Lucyan
stood for a minute clutching the recovered key
tightly, while an ugly look of cunning dawned in
his eyes. One glance out of the window showed him
Kazimir and Xenia, with their backs safely turned.
Leaving the drawing-room softly, he walked across
the passage to the dining-room ; there were no servants
within sight or hearing.

Quite gently the key turned in the lock, and
with a subdued groan the cupboard - door swung
open.

Vows of glass jam-pots stood before Lucyan, labelled
"gooseberry" and "currant" in Eobertine's angular
writing. On the "shelf of honour" stood the rose-jam,
which Xenia always told strangers she had
made herself. The contents of the lowest shelf were
more miscellaneous ; and here, between a mustard-jar
and a bottle of extra fine wddki, there stood a

smaller bottle with a gold paper round the cork, and
labelled " sleeping-drops."

I have it now' said Lucyan to himself ; " at last
I have my sleeping-drops."

He locked the cupboard again very carefully, and
put the key in his pocket ; and keeping the bottle in
his hand, he held it to the light.

Ten drops on sugar, nightly," was written on the
label. Having read the directions, he turned the
bottle round. The fluid it contained was of a deep
yellow colour. Next he uncorked and smelt it. The
smell was unusual and disagreeable.

Did I say that the air was cold and sharp ? "
thought Lucyan ; " no, it is hot and burning. I shall
not have the porcelain stove lit now."

He stood with the uncorked bottle in his hand,
hesitating as to what he should do. He put it down
on the table at last, and walked to the door to listen ;
then walked to the window to see if he were not
watched. No one was looking this way. Kazimir
and Xenia still stood with their backs turned ; and
beside them Trappisto was still busy among the
asters, and with earthy snout and mud - encrusted
paws, was revelling in his favourite pursuit. Broken
flowers lay around him.

I wonder," reflected Lucyan, " whether Trappisto
would like a lump of sugar 1 "

VOL. Il K

An idea had struck him, and he thought it was
good. If there had been no "mistake" about the
sleeping-drops, there would be no harm to Trappisto.
And if there had been a, mistake — why, Lucy an had
hated the dog for long— at least then the blue asters
would lose their persecutor, and there would be no
more holes dug in the garden-beds. Ah, Trappisto !
poor Trappisto ! in your blessed ignorance, is it indeed
your grave which you have been digging all summer ?

Trappisto ! Trappisto ! " called Lucy an, opening
the window, and putting out his head.

It was the first time that Kazimir had heard his
brother call to the dog, and, somewhat surprised, he
looked round. Whenever Lucyan did take notice of
Trappisto, the notice usually came in the shape of a
kick, or of a hunt with a rake round the garden.

What do you want, Lucyan ? " he asked.

I want your dog here for a minute, to clear a
plate ; send him in."

Trappisto was as surprised as his master; but
whether the word "plate" conveyed some distinct
impression to his mind, or whether there were other
pleasant reminiscences connected with the diningroom,
at any rate Trappisto abandoned the asters
with alacrity, cleared a flower-bed, and leapt in by
the open window.

There was a bowl of sugar standing on the dining-table.

Lucyan selected a large piece, and began to
drop out the sleeping-draught. It was only now that
he became aware of the excitement which governed
him, for his hand was shaking, so that he had to
pause. Upon each of his cheeks a scarlet spot flamed.
He waited for a minute to recover himself, and then
began to drop out the medicine again. This time
he succeeded in steadying his hand.

One, two, three," he counted up to ten ; and all
the time Trappisto stood in front of him and watched
the process impatiently.

"Ten," said Lucyan; and he looked at the label
once more, for he meant to give the medicine a fair
trial. Then he laid the sugar on the floor, a yard
from Trappisto's nose; he was always fastidious in
his tastes, and he objected to letting his fingers come
in contact with that moist and muddy snout.

Trappisto, although apparently somewhat mystified
by the colour of the sugar, did not hesitate for long,
but trotted forward, bent his head, glared at it greedily,
and in the next moment it crunched between his
teeth.

As he munched, the dog gazed up at Lucyan with
a look of earnest gratitude, a sort of affectionate
reverence, which he always felt towards any one whoever
gave him anything to eat.

He stood in the same attitude after he had swallowed

the sugar for nearly a minute; then he gave a
sort of shudder, and almost before Lucyan had time
to notice any change, Trappisto staggered, and fell
upon his side.

There was not a sound or a groan, only the convulsive
tremble still ran over him as he lay. His legs
stretched out slowly, his skin twitched once more,
then seemed to stiffen in its wrinkles. He lay there
stretched and quite motionless.

In less than a minute this had all passed. Lucyan
still held the bottle in his hand, for he had never
moved his eyes from Trappisto. He bent down now
and looked at him, then touched him ; then with two
fastidious fingers lifted one of the yellow paws. It
offered no resistance : the dog was quite dead already.

When he stood up straight again Lucyan's face was
deadly pale.

The sleeping-drops," he said, just above his breath
" my sleeping-drops." He held by the edge of the
table to keep himself straight ; for a blue film seemed
slowly to be creeping over his eyes, and in this sudden
fit of giddiness he could see neither the floor nor
Trappisto.

Very slowly the giddiness passed, and his clearness
of sight returned. The door had opened in the meantime,
though he had not heard it, and Kazimir was
standing in the room.

Liicyan ! " he cried, — " Lucyan, who has done
this?"

I did it," said Lucyan.

This is cruelty, base cruelty," and Kazimir stooped
over Trappisto. " You have taken a good deal from
me, Lucyan," he added, between his teeth. " Do you
not think you might have left me my dog ? "

Kazimir's voice was low ; but as he glanced up at
Lucyan there was a dangerous light in his eye.

I gave him my sleeping-drops," said Lucyan, speaking
quietly, although the sickly pallor had not left his
face.

"Your sleeping - drops ! " echoed Kazimir, with a
hard laugh, and he stood up and faced his brother.
'rand this is the work of your sleeping-drops? and
that is why you look so pale ? Does it surprise you,
Lucyan, that it should have come to this at last?
Does it not surprise you rather that it should not
have come to this long ago?"

Why ? " asked Lucyan, slowly.

Does it surprise you that you should have enemies
? "

Enemies ? " Lucyan repeated the word suspiciously.
" What do you know of my enemies ? "

More than of your friends. Have you a friend,
Lucyan ? Have you one single friend in all this wide
world ? "

'' I don't know," said Lucyan, in a strange voice ;
lie was gazing down at the bottle lie held.

Kazimir had stepped up close to his brother now ;
his eyes flamed as he spoke.

I am your brother, Lucyan, and most men have a
friend in their brother, even if they have no other ;
but have you been a brother to me? I am not as
clever as you, but I am clever enough to see that I
have been duped by you all through life. By God !
Lucyan, do you know that last night I was tempted
to let you take the poison? I do not know what
saved you: it was not any love of mine."

Lucyan knew what had saved him better than
Kazimir — his brother's honesty ; for it is a great mistake
to suppose that because a man has no honesty
himself, he must necessarily not know how to value
it in others. It is only the villain on a small scale
who does not dare to trust to his neighbour, because
he knows that he is not to be trusted himself; and
Lucyan was not a villain on a small scale. He did
full justice to his brother's qualities; he recognised
his largeness of heart and mind, his simple and
straightforward nature. He even, to a certain extent,
admired him as a figure of artistic merits, a piece of
unpractical quixotry. He admired him, and — he
pitied him; A grain of pity always flavoured his
feelings towards Kazimir; but this sudden violence

startled him out of it. Just now lie wished that
Kazimir would not quarrel with him — he had enemies
enough already.

But Kazimir's blood was up ; the long restraint was
burst at last. His reproaches poured hot and thick
upon Lucyan.

What you could take from me you have taken ;
I have nothing left now but the sword which I have
gained for myself. You stole from me the woman I
loved; and how have you used her? what have you
made of her ? Has one brother ever treated another
as you have treated me ? Oh, Lucyan, can such
things indeed be done and go unpunished?"

Lucyan's eyes were on the floor ; he listened with
a face almost stupidly apathetic, only he could not
meet Kazimir's fiery gaze. He was afraid of his elder
brother to-day.

Kazimir paused and breathed deeply.

I have spoken at last ; I wish that I had spoken
months ago. I hate myself for having come to your
house and put on the face of a friend, when in my
heart I felt the bitterness of an enemy."

Why, then, did you not stay away ? " asked
Lucyan, with a faint, a very faint, reflection of one
of his former sneers.

You shall not ask me that again," cried Kazimir,
impetuously. " This is my last visit. I shall not

trouble your house again, Lucian'— his fingers were
on the door-handle.

Wait," said Lucyan, and he put out his hand
blindly, as if groping in the dark— he was afraid ot
letting Kazimir go away in anger — " wait," he said,
smiling feebly ; " we need not quarrel again, need
we?"

It was too late now. Kazimir struck aside the
hand which Lucyan held towards him, and, opening
the door, he sprang from the room.

He was still so hot with anger that he could not be
sure of the words he had said, nor feel certain whether,
in his heat, he had not betrayed Janina's secret. In
vain, as he rode homewards, did he put the question
to himself.

But he need not have feared for Janina; it was
not of Janina that Lucyan was thinking, as, left to
himself, he began to pace the room. The short but
stormy interview just passed had scarcely torn his
mind from the train of thought which it had before
been following. He seized back on it again at the
very moment that the door fell shut.

The thought which shaped itself in Lucyan's mind
was this : " The medicine was poisoned, and it was
Aitzig Majulik who hr ought the medicine to the house."

CHAPTER XVIII.

CARDS BETRAYED.

Sir, he's a good dog, and a fair dog. Can there be more said ? He is good
and Mv."— The Merry Wives of Windsor.

There was one more hole dug in the garden ; but it
was dug for Trappisto, and not by him.

The yellow dog was buried under a rose-bush. Lucy
an made no objection — in fact, he believed that it
was good for the bush; and Kazimir, once at home
again, discovered that he was more than ever a lonely
man. He missed the weak-minded wag of tail, and the
mournful upward glance, to which he had been used
so long : he turned away from the straw-mat by the
stove as from a painful sight ; every mark of a muddy
paw on the boards served to lower his spirits. Trap-pistol
had been an exceptionally quiet dog — and he
had not been an exceptionally big one, — and yet the
room had never looked so empty, nor appeared so
silent, as it did to-night.

Next morning — his toilet being still incomplete —

Kazimir was startled by a violent altercation outside,
and opening the door, found himself confronted by
Aitzig Majulik, leading two dogs, each by a string,
and attempting to force his way past the indignant
soldier-servant.

What do you want ? " asked Kazimir, sternly.

To wish a good morning to the noble captain,"
answered Aitzig, ducking his head.

Leave me alone," said Kazimir ; " do you hear ? "

Perfectly ; Aitzig hears perfectly," said the factor,
at the same time quietly making his way into the
room, though the process was not free from difficulties,
as the two dogs were pulling him in different directions.

What is all this about ? " inquired Kazimir, staring
with an air of the most supreme disgust from the
vulgar and rough-haired brown dog to the dazzling
white poodle which Aitzig led. " Are you setting up
a caravan, or do you think I am ? "

Aitzig was vastly amused at the notion. The noble
captain always did say such amusing things, — always
was so witty and agreeable in conversation. Aitzig
was truly grateful to see some cheerfulness remaining
after so sad a loss; he had feared for the captain's
spirits, &c., &c.

What do you mean ? " asked Kazimir.

I mean the sad bereavement which the noble gentleman
has suffered in losing his yellow dog."

How do yoii know that 1 " asked Kazimir, sliarpl}^

Where is the thing that Aitzig does not know ?
and which is the thing that Aitzig could not do?
Does the noble Pan think that Aitzig's head has lain
on his pillow to-night?" He paused for a moment,
with his hand uplifted and his body thrown back ; but
receiving no answer to the dramatically-put question,
proceeded without one.

No ; Aitzig's head has scarcely touched his pillow.
It was thus I spoke to myself : I said, the yellow dog
is dead, the gracious captain is solitary ; he will need
a companion to replace the one he has lost. Before
daylight I was up, and going from place to place ; for
I would bring to the noble captain none but dogs of
the highest breeding and the most irreproachable conduct
; " and here Aitzig, noticing that the largest and
most vulgar of his charges was feasting upon a boot,
quietly administered a warning kick. The poodle,
being young, and not having yet acquired that perfect
steadiness of legs which is indispensable to canine
dignity, had sat down on the instant of entering the
room, and lay on the floor like a heap of jeweller's
cotton, evidently not intending to rise until compelled
to do so.

Then, while Kazimir, half provoked and half amused,
turned his back and went on shaving, Aitzig launched
on a double panegyric concerning his two canine ^:)rc>-

Ages, puffing out now one, now the other, with all the
eloquence at his command. They were simple prodigies,
and exceptional creations, — altogether different
from any other animal that went by the name of
dog. Would the gracious Pan be so kind as to say
whether he had ever seen anything to approach the
quality of that poodle's wool, or anything to rival the
intelligence of his eye ? He should be infinitely obliged
if Kazimir would just name any other factor who was
in the position to produce such a poodle. In fact,
there was nothing to which he could fitly compare
that poodle, unless it were the brown quadruped,
which Aitzig dignified by the name of otter-hound.

There is not an otter in the country' said Kashmir,
savagely; "and if there were any I would not
hunt them."

Ah ! the noble captain preferred the poodle ? Well,
perhaps he was right. That was a dog that was at
once companion and friend, protector, and almost counsellor.
And to think that so much intelligence and
good feeling — all that fidelity, and all that mass of
jeweller's cotton — was to be purchased for five florins !

By this time Kazimir was feeling more provoked
than amused. Had he been in his usual mood, he
would have cut the matter short by turning the Jew
and his dogs out of the door ; but he was far from
being in his usual spirits. " Leave me alone," he said,

wearily, and with a half sigh he sat down at the table,
turning his back again to Aitzig.

Aitzig could not see his face ; but he had heard the
tone, and his fine and practised ear had caught the
shade of sadness — the lonely expression of a solitary
man. No matter that it was only the loss of a dog
which had called it out ; the expression was genuine,
and Aitzig marked it.

Long ago his eyes had swept round the room, merely
from the instinct of constant habit, and he had read
every sign aright.

I will stake my faith that the poodle would suit
the noble captain," he began again, softly, after a
minute. "Companionship is what the gracious Pan
requires, and this poodle would afford more companionship
than a whole regiment of comrades.
Comrades ? did I say comrades ? Why, what wife,
even, could be more devoted and faithful than this
incomparable animal ? And a man must have either
a good wife or a good dog, noble Pan, if he is to live
happily."

Kazimir made an impatient movement. A violent
answer would have appeared much more hopeful to
Aitzig Majulik. He would have shown resignation
if Kazimir had abused him — he would have felt encouragement
if Kazimir had expelled him. That
would have looked like business at least. But this

silence and this apathy struck dismay to his heart ;
his flow of eloquence ran dry. Silent and irresolute,
he stood and gazed at the floor, while the two dogs
fell asleep by his side.

It might have been something in the attitude of Kazimir
or the stamp of the room, or it might have been
something in his own words, that put his busy mind on
another train of thought. It was clear that Kazimir's
heart was hardened against the charms of both poodle
and otter-hound, and at the same time it was clear
that he was oppressed by solitude. It went straight
against all Aitzig's principles to leave the room without
carrying with him at least the hope of a future
bargain. He began to bethink himself of another cue.

It was some weeks now since, in his mental cupboard,
he had locked away an article which lay there
waiting for its chance in life. That chance he had
almost despaired of finding ; but had it not come
now? Aitzig could see no better, at any rate. He
had read Kazimir's state of mind far more accurately
than Kazimir had read it himself, and he thought that
the soil was ready for the seed. A man, generally,
would not be likely to pay for the information that
a penniless woman was in love with him ; but Aitzig,
with infinite scorn, told himself that this was just the
sort of man who would marry a woman for no other
reason but that she was poor, and unhappy.

When he had coughed several times, and shuffled
about for a minute, Aitzig spoke.

The gracious Pan will not look at the dogs ? "

No," said Kazimir, shortly.

And the gracious Pan will continue to live thus —
alone ? "

There was no answer.

Aitzig repeated his shuffle.

It is a solitary life to lead, if Aitzig may venture
to speak."

What of that ? " asked Kazimir, haughtily, struck
by the significance of the factor's tone.

The gracious Pan lives thus quite alone, without
any one beside him ; and the Pan is young, and handsome,
and accomplished."

'•'And amiable, and good-tempered, and witty," finished
Kazimir, beginning to lose patience ; " and
nothing else besides, are you sure? Do you think
that is quite enough?"

It was not near enough, according to Aitzig's opinion;
but refraining from a further list, he rapidly
sidled in another observation. " Most men of that
age think of marrying. Many is the lady, no doubt,
who would be proud to call the gracious captain her
husband."

If you have nothing better to do than to sing my
praises," said Kazimir, " you had better go."

But Aitzig had something better to do : he quickly
leapt from generalities to particulars.

If," he suggested — " if old Aitzig happened to have
heard that there was somebody — that there was a lady
who •"

"What are you saying?" Kazimir raised his head
quickly.

That there was a lady — attached to the noble captain
— deeply attached."

Silence ! " said Kazimir, almost violently ; for he
instantly thought of Xenia. The blood mounted to
his temples.

The Jew was puzzled. Had he guessed after all ?
Another step would show.

"A lady," he cautiously proceeded, "whose happiness
the gracious Pan could complete tomorrow by
making her his wife."

The flush on Kazimir's face began to fade. This
could not be Xenia. His curiosity was aroused, and
imprudently he put the question : " Who is it you are
speaking of?"

Having led him skilfully thus far, and tempted him
to betray curiosity, Aitzig as skilfully drew back. He
raised his ten fingers in artless surprise.

The name of the lady ? Was that what the gracious
Pan desired ? How could it be right of Aitzig to betray
a lady's secret ? But, on the other hand, if the

captain were really anxious, and especially if he did
not mind going to the expense of some slight remuneration
to Aitzig for his trouble, it might not be absolutely
impossible to come to terms.

Aitzig's drift was clear by this time ; and Kazimir's
heart rose in disgust at the revolting bargain proposed.
Watching his face carefully, the factor proceeded to
make play with his ware, treating the broken heart
just as if it had been a tangible object of traffic which
he held in his hand. Now showing it through a cloud
of mystery; now unveiling one corner temptingly ; now
turning up the broken edge for a moment and letting
Kazimir catch a glimpse of how deep was the crack —
for there is this difference between broken hearts and
broken bottles, considered as objects of trade, that the
depth of the crack lowers the one in value, while it
heightens the other ; and Aitzig, knowing his advantage,
worked upon it. He kept nothing back except
the mere name.

Kazimir rose at last in exasperation.

Will you go, or shall I turn you out ? " he asked,
with frowning brow. " I will not listen to another
word. I decline your horrid bargain. I do not want
to buy your secret, nor do I believe that you have any
to sell."

This last taunt was too cruel to be borne. By questioning
his business capacity, Kazimir had touched

VOL. III. L

Aitzig's one tender point. In his eagerness to refute,
the factor all but lost hold over himself. He uttered
a sound, half shriek, half laugh, and wholly hysterical,

How should Aitzig have no secret to sell, when it
was these eyes that saw it and these ears that heard
it ? Did I not see her turn, after you had left her,
and all in a minute break down and weep, holding
the rock with her hand because she was too weak to
stand alone ? And Aitzig said, that is not the ruin ;
that is because her heart is broke "

Before Aitzig had quite realised how much he had
betrayed, he found himself in the passage outside,
staggering against the wall, with the poodle and otter-hound
rolling and howling in a knot at his feet.

Kazimir had saved his dignity, but it had been a
narrow shave, after all; that haughty indifference,
which sat so well upon him, was on the surface only,
no deeper than a mask. He had not forgotten that
evening among the rocks ; he had not forgotten that
look in Yizia's eyes which had so puzzled him then,
and haunted him since with many a vague suspicion.
He had wondered what the explanation of that look
could be, and he had come so near to guessing the
truth that it wanted nothing more than Aitzig's words
to make the cloud fall from his eyes.

His own stupidity appalled him ; how could he not
have seen long ago what he saw so clearly now ?

Yes, Vizia loved him; perhaps even had loved him
for long, — and she was beggared. But so was he ; he
had no means wherewith to pay this debt of gratitude.
In a few weeks more, the sword, which had
hovered so long over her head, would fall. Her ruin
had been virtually completed for some time; very
soon its practical effects would come into force, and
Vizia be for ever forced to leave Lodniki. She had
been wronged, cheated, beggared by his brother, thought
Kazimir, — and she loved him.

Thus Kazimir reflected, with his head upon his
hand ; and the morning sunbeams, slanting in, peeped
over his shoulder, as though they would say, " What
are your thoughts, you pensive man ? "

CHAPTER XIX.

WHICH Caen ?

Forwards must du, . .
Deny riickwarts kannst du nun night mer."

Wallenstein : Schiller.

The spirits I have raised, abandon me ;
The spells which I have studied, baffle me ;
The remedy I recked of, tortured me."

Manfred: Byron.

Habit blunts us to everything ; and the rock-blasting
at the end of the garden, which had at first excited
interest, curiosity, or fear, according to the character
of each household member, was now regarded by most
with supreme indifference. They no longer felt nervous
when the warning trumpet-note was sounded,
and they no longer screamed when, five minutes later,
the explosion was heard.

Xenia's peace alone remained disturbed. She had
begun by feeling far more nervous at the trumpet-notes,
and by screaming far louder at the explosions,
than any one else ; and now she would still have
liked to shriek, and still have wished to indulge in

hysterics, only she did not dare. Her fear of her
husband was even greater than her fear of gunpowder ;
and so, with a self-control she had never before practised,
Xenia contented herself with thrusting her lace
handkerchief between her teeth, or burying her head
in the sofa-cushion.

Liicyan spoke little during these days ; every one
instinctively moved out of his path. His wife shrank
from him in terror; the servants avoided their master.
He seemed to notice no one. Never since his burst of
fury, had he by a single word referred to the subject
of the paper before Xenia ; Lucyan never argued with
his wife. But equally might it be said, that never fora
single moment had his mind been free from the
subject. It was of that he was thinking during the
long hours that he silently and gloomily paced the
room ; it was of that he was thinking when he stood
immovable by the window, staring with vacant eyes
through the pane, — of that, and of the poison.

Those two things were inseparably linked together
in his mind ; the idea once shaped, he had never
thought of disconnecting them. The problem of the
poison had not puzzled him for long. From his
brother he was safe, he felt, because of that brother's
honesty — and from his wife, because of that wife's
stupidity ; he scarcely gave a thought to that side of
the question : but there was a man who was neither

honest nor stupid, and that was the man he suspected.
Nor should it be called by so weak a name as suspicion
; from the very first moment it had been more.
It was a conviction so overwhelming that it asked
for no proof, and would admit of no doubt. Others
might wonder; to Lucyan it all seemed hideously
clear. It was what he had unconsciously expected,
though he had not expected it to be so soon ; it was
merely the realisation and embodiment of all his
vague apprehensions; it gave them sudden shape —
it distinctly showed him what it was that he had
indistinctly feared.

The consciousness he had long felt that Aitzig
wished for his death, had become an irresistible
belief which entirely swayed him. How was he to
save himself? was the question on which he brooded.
Every path of escape seemed closed. His mind, which
had of late been so incessantly at work, refused to do
more ; strained and weary, it began to sink under the
stress of thought.

If he delayed the payment of Aitzig's money, he
could not be sure of his life for a day ; but again, if
Aitzig had long wished for his death, as Lucyan had
now persuaded himself that Aitzig did, would not the
moment of the payment, after which he had nothing
more to hope from Lucyan, be a very proper moment,
in Aitzig's eyes, for ridding himself of his master?

In a confused and fevered way, Lucyan almost thought
so. He could not clearly see whether it were safer to
withhold the money, or to pay it. And to add to his
tortures, in the midst of this chaos, into which gradually
he felt himself drawn, the agony of parting with
the money lost none of its keen edge. Even to put
his life in undoubted safety, he would still have
hesitated.

All was closed around him ; there was but one possible
way by which everything would become straight
at once — but one contingency which could give him
back peace and comfort, and his lost self-confidence.
Think and search as he might, it was always to this
same point that Lucyan's mind returned, and round
which his hopes tenaciously clung.

It was the image of Aitzig in his shroud, as he had
seen him that afternoon. Frightful in itself, it was to
Lucyan an image of peace and joy. If Aitzig were
dead, he would be free ; if Aitzig were dead, he might
get back that fatal paper without exciting suspicion ;
Aitzicr's death, and nothing but Aitzicr's death, could
save him.

It must not be supposed that Lucyan's temptations
at this moment were the ordinary temptations of
ordinary men. He felt no desire to stab or strangle
Aitzig, though he would have rejoiced to see-him
stabbed or strangled. He was far too clever, even in

his present state of mental confusion, ever to become
a vulgar murderer. However strong the motive, to kill
a man would always remain a disagreeable undertaking.
It was dirty work, it was gentlemanlike, it
was imprudent ; it was a stupid thing to do. The
victim was one particularly repulsive to the touch ;
the details of the act were revolting to a fastidious
taste; even a spot of blood made Lucyan feel sick.
No ; there were plenty of grounds why Lucyan should
not become a murderer : " C'est plus qu'un crime, c'est
une faute," was the thought that held him back.

Perhaps the reason why the picture of Aitzig
wrapped in his shroud remained so obstinately fixed
in Lucyan's mind was, that he had last seen the Jew
thus. Not for years past had such a long break occurred
between the factor and the Wowasulka household.
Except to bring the medicine, Aitzig had not
been near the house this week. Lucyan had feared
the persecution ; but this absolute peace he feared
still more. As long as Aitzig remained thus invisible,
the danger would appear greater, because less palpable.
It was almost a relief when, a few days later, Lucyan,
standing on the slope at the forest-edge, watching
the workmen as they bored the rocks and laid the
train, all at once caught sight of a familiar black
figure on the road below.

He is coming to me," said Lucyan ; but Aitzig was

not coming. He kept on his way, without so much
as raising his head, or looking up the slope.

He is avoiding me," said Lucyan, with a thrill of
deeper apprehension ; " he wants to pass unnoticed : "
and acting on something nearer an impulse than he
had ever acted on in his life, Lucyan called —

"Aitzig!"

Aitzig looked up, and seeing Lucyan beckon, came
up the slope; threading his way in rather gingerly
fashion between the scattered rocks ; casting mistrustful
glances at the pickaxes and spades that lay about
on the grass. He was mistrustful of the whole blasting
process, as one of the few things that were strange
and unfamiliar to him.

The noble Pan desires ? "

Yes, I want to speak to you ; " for Lucyan had
come to a resolution. " I have remembered about
that money transaction between us."

Aitzig, with his most winning leer, murmured that
it was very gracious of the gentleman to remember so
small a thing.

I have not the money about me now ; but tomorrow
I shall pay you — half of the sum. Do you
understand ? "

"And the other half?"

Another time." Lucyan, though he still partially
retained the power of masking his inward agitation,

was scrutinising Aitzig with a long and piercing glance.
His eyes hung upon the Jew with all the intensity
of a lover gazing upon the beloved object. He had
been conscious of a certain impatience to see again
the man who, as he believed, had attempted his life.
Coloured by his own belief, every sign he saw supported
his conviction. He saw bloodthirstiness where
there was only cunning ; and in Aitzig's very attitude
and expression, he thought he could read the suppressed
rage of the murderer, who has been baffled
for the moment.

He had scarcely strength enough remaining to restrain
the outward expression of his disgust,

Listen, Aitzig," he said, with a poor attempt at his
once so perfect dissimulation; "there was a mistake
about that paper which the Panii gave you. I want
it returned."

"Naturally, naturally," said Aitzig, cringing. "It
is quite natural that the noble Pan shall have the paper
back."

'' You may as well give it to me now." Lucyan held
out his hand.

It is' quite natural," continued Aitzig, as though
he had not heard, " that the paper shall be given back,
when the money is paid."

The money is to be paid tomorrow."

Half of it," suggested Aitzig.

Lucyan withdrew his hand ; he saw it was of no use.
He had not hoped to succeed, for he well knew " the
stubborn nature of the Jew. "

You can go now," he said ; " I shall see you tomorrow."


"At what hour does the gracious Pan command?"

"The same hour."

Aitzig will be there punctually, at the house."

Not the house," said Lucyan, quickly.

Ah, Aitzig understands. Aitzig is not to be
seen there. Which place, then, does the Pan desire
? "

Lucyan hesitated for a moment, glancing irresolutely
around him.

The same place then," he said.

They had moved on some paces in talking, and they
stood now beside a group of large rocks — the largest
rocks on the slope. It was a convenient spot to choose,
near to the house, and yet shielded from the windows,
and veiled from the road by the branches of the garden
trees. The workmen were employed some fifty
paces off. A succession of dull and monotonous
thuds sounded over from where they worked. Three
men were raising and sinking the heavy borer which
was to pierce the rock. There was no reason to fear
their prying eyes ; their eyes were perforce always
chained to the spot they were boring ; and besides,

they were but stupid Polish peasants, whose only
merit lay in muscle.

The same place ? " repeated Aitzig, in a tone of
dissatisfaction. "Does the gracious Pan think the
place is safe ? "

Perfectly safe," said Lucyan. " Who could overhear
us?"

Aitzig laughed. That was not what he meant ; he
was thinking of another sort of safety — of gunpowder,
and flying stones, and exploding rocks. " Ah ! " and
Aitzig jumped a foot from the ground as another
explosion rent the air. There was no cause for fear,
however ; they were out of shot — the last spent
splinter of stone grazed a tree twenty paces off.

Lucyan gave a faint smile of contempt.

Don't you know that they always sound a trumpet
as soon as the train is fired? You cannot get your
money tomorrow unless you wait for it here."

"Let it be so," said Aitzig, resigned. "Just here,
then," and he looked round him. " Between those two
big rocks it shall be."

The rocks he pointed at were those which Lucyan
used jestingly to call his "twins." Taller than a tall
man, they stood close together — but not so close as to
forbid a narrow passage between them, which passage
was blocked at one end. It was just the spot which
children would have prized in a game of hide-and-seek

; but no children had played here within this
generation.

The pair of twin giants which held such high rankin
Lucyan's defunct rockery, and which, clothed in
ivy and crowned with waving ferns, had been its chief
ornament, presented a desolate spectacle now : only a
few long trails still hung down the sides — the ferns lay
trampled on the ground.

Between those two rocks," said Aitzig again, and
he nodded confidentially at the twins. It had been in
the friendly shelter of those very rocks that he had
cowered, while listening to Vizia and Kazimir, on the
day of her ruin.

Aitzig went down the slope again, and Lucyan stood
and watched him. When the black figure had vanished,
Lucyan turned and walked towards the workmen.


The sun was low already, the men had fired their
last train, and were gathering their pickaxes together.

"You are getting on fast, Monsieur Van Hoogen,"
said Lucyan, in French — (Lucyan never lost an opportunity
of airing his French) — addressing a young man
who was buttoning his coat preparatory to leaving the
spot. " It looks almost as if you would be done tomorrow."


Pas demain'' laughed the Belgian overseer, showing
a cheerful double row of teeth. " We shall do buta

short day's work tomorrow ; it is the eve of some
festival, or some anniversary of some patron saint of
the place, they tell me ; and I must let them off their
work two hours before the usual time, in order to make
quite sure that they all have a fair chance of getting
drunk."

My poor rocks ! " said Lucyan, with a mournful
glance around him.

Splendid material," said the Belgian ; " the largest
clump will go tomorrow, I hope," pointing in the
direction where Lucyan had been standing some minutes
ago. " I am almost sorry that I shall not be hereto
see them fly up. Ce serait un plaisir ! But I shall
have to inspect the line further down : they have got
into a mess there — come to an awkward clay-cutting.
Can do no more than see the trains laid; and, with their
patron saint beckoning them to their confounded emi
de vie shops, these fellows are pretty sure to cut and
run as soon as my back is turned. Good evening,
Monsieur Bielinski — fai Honneur de me congeries."

"Bon soir, Monsieur Van Hoogen." And so, with
many polite grins on the part of Monsieur Van Hoogen,
and various equally polite words on the part of both
gentlemen, they went on their different ways.

CHAP TEE XX.

THE LAST TRICK.

I am afraid to think what I have done
Look on't again I dare not."

Macbeth.

Lucian's first thought next morning was, " This is the
day that I have to pay Aitzig half his money."

Aitzig's first thought was, " This is the day that I
shall have half my money paid to me."

The workmen's first thought was, " Short work and
deep luddki; blessed be our patron saint ! "

The work, although short, was long enough to give
Lucy an a headache, — for they were boring rocks again;
and that dull, continuous succession of thuds put his
overstrained nerves on the rack. He wished it would
stop ; and then he changed his mind, and wished it
would go on, — for he remembered that, when the workmen
were gone, Aitzig would come.

By four o'clock in the afternoon the slope was
silent, and apparently deserted ; no workmen were insight.

There was no more reason for putting off the
interview. If Aitzig had been punctual, he must already
now be waiting between the two rocks — waiting
for his three thousand florins.

Lucyan left the house reluctantly. Outside he
paused ; and, with a glance around to make sure that
he was unobserved, he pulled out his pocket-book and
gazed at the notes. The pain of parting with them
had never been so keen. He felt a great repugnance
to that spot among the rocks : slowly down the length
of the garden he dragged his steps towards it.

The afternoon was so silent, and the air so clear,
that even the rustle of a falling leaf was audible ; and
every step of Lucyan's on the gravel sent up a sharp,
crisp echo. No cloud had streaked the pale-blue sky
since morning ; the sunshine lay still and golden over
the slope. Autumn was in full glory. The year, which
in its April youth loved primrose wreaths and violet-scent,
is in its second childhood now. The serious
work of the summer is over ; the orchards are ripened,
and the harvests are garnered ; the furnace of the sun
has burnt the green leaves into gold ; and now the old
year is at play again, and finds its delight in flower-bells
and the coral of red berries. There is a wealth
of playthings all around. Shining spider-webs where
the dew-drops have hung all day ; velvet-winged butterflies,
wonderfully streaked and spotted ; thick-furred

caterpillars, crimson leaves, the rattle of the grasshopper
in the grass, — these are the old-year toys ; and,
like a child at play, he blows about the feathers off the
thistle-tops, — a mischievous game it is, to which many
a sweating peasant will give his curse next summer.

The sunshine is making the most of the time that
remains ; there will not be many more days of this
sort before the winter comes. For all this boastful
display, and this flood of golden beams, the rule of the
sun is waning fast. This very morning Queen Frost
has paid a flying visit to the world : her footsteps are
still on the garden-beds, where she stole over them in
the silent dawn, when mankind was still asleep ; her
finger-marks are on more than one October rose, that
hangs its languid head, carrying death in its heart.
The rising sun scared the frosty queen away ; for when
the first fiery arrow shot over the horizon, she fled from
the earth in haste ; but she dropped her veil in flying.
Early risers could see it still lying over the grass.

Now she creeps out like a thief in the night ; but
soon she will come in the broad daylight, unmasked
and undisguised. Already the plants are beginning
to droop and fade ; the ivy alone, that still lingers at
places among the yet untasted rocks, is only now
bursting into late flower, looking its very gayest and
most festive, — almost, thought Lucyan, as though it
revelled in the havoc that is coming.

VOL. in. M

At that moment Lucy an stopped short, — for his eye
was caught by a small object lying on a rock. It was
a horn-trumpet, — the same, no doubt, used by the workmen
for signalling that the train was fired. Though he
had become familiar with its tone, Lucyan had never
happened to see. the instrument before. He stopped
and looked at it now ; and as he stood looking at it, he
remembered that Monsieur Van Hoogen had told him
that the big rocks were to be blasted to-day.

He looked at the trumpet a minute longer ; then
he looked to both sides of him ; then he took up the
trumpet, turned it over, remarked that the horn was
cracked at one place, and finally put it in his pocket.

It was scarcely in his pocket when he perceived
two workmen approaching. They were looking about
them, kicking the stones, probing the grass with the
handles of their pickaxes. Lucyan understood at once
what it was they were looking for.

You have lost something ? " he said, as they came
stumbling on, without noticing him.

The men looked up, removed their caps, and scratched
their heads. Yes, they had lost something, — the
trumpet for signalling, — but it was not their fault ; at
least each of them was quite sure that it was not his
fault, and equally sure that it was the other's fault.

Ah, the trumpet ! Big and yellow, was it not ? "

No, it was small and brown," they said.

But what do you want the trumpet for to-day ? "
asked Lucyan ; " I thought you had left off working ? "

The others had left off working, explained the men,
pausing for a minute to listen to the far-off sound of
a jovial chorus, sung by their retreating comrades ; but
Monsieur Van Hoogen had left strict orders that a portion
of those rocks was to be gone before tomorrow.
The train was laid ; there was nothing to do but to fire
it and sound the trumpet.

And what would Monsieur Van Hoogen do if you
fired it without sounding the trumpet?" asked Lucyan.


The men looked at each other dubiously. They
were not quite clear as to Monsieur Van Hoogen's
course of action in such a case; for besides beincr
choleric, he had odd notions about safety and the
value of human life — notions that were not at all
Polish.

Lucyan suggested that Monsieur Van Hoogen had
no means of knowing whether the trumpet had been
sounded or not.

That was true, the men agreed ; the Pan was quite
right. But, as the more conscientious of the two feebly
observed, there had been some one among the rocks a
little time ago, and they had not seen him go away.

He must have gone long ago," said Lucyan.

That also was true, the men agreed again. They

were only too ready to let themselves be convinced
that to go off and join their rollicking companions
was the best, the wisest, and the safest thing to do.
Lucyan uttered no word of persuasion ; but in two
minutes' time the workmen were doing exactly what
he intended that they should do. If they lit the
train at once without further search for the trumpet,
they could still overtake their comrades. Of course,
in that case they could not wait for the explosion ;
for the train would take seven or eight minutes to
reach the gunpowder. But, after all, that was not of
much consequence. Would the Pan Marszalek stand
here, just on this spot, where he would be quite in
safety ?

When the workmen had left him, Lucyan looked at
his watch. Seven or eight minutes they had said;
and all the future had become reduced for him to
these seven or eight minutes before him. At what
precise moment the idea had entered his head he
could not have traced had he wished. He only
knew that it was there. It might have been at the
moment when he saw the trumpet lying on the rock,
or it might have been when the workmen spoke to
him. He had laid down no plan ; the plan had laid
itself.

He stood leaning against a tree-stem waiting ; and
as he waited, he was not aware of any trepidation or

hesitation in his purpose. He was aware only of the
terrible slowness with which the minutes were passing.
His mind was scarcely at work ; all his senses seemed
blunted. In a dull stupid sort of fashion he began to
wonder whether Aitzig really were among those rocks.
There were at least as many chances on the one side
as on the other. He might have been detained at
home ; he might have taken fright when they lit the
train at the other side of the rock, even though the
trumpet-note was not given. True, the rock was thick
and would deaden all sound ; but the chance was there
all the same.

Once or twice while he waited, Lucyan put his
hands to his ears and covered them, as if dreading the
burst of the explosion ; but it was not dread that
he felt, — it was rather an ever-growing longing. The
silence of the autumn day was becoming intolerable.

There was a large brown caterpillar crawling in the
grass at his feet. Lucyan watched it with a curious
attention; he wondered whether it would reach the
tree before the train was burnt. It was strange to
think that by merely standing thus with his arms
folded, watching the caterpillar crawl, he was killing
Aitzig all the time. The notion was original, whimsical,
humorous, fascinating.

There was a bird singing on a tree at the forest-edge.
Lucyan listened, and wondered whether Aitzig

were listening too ? and whether the bird's song would
be the last sound Aitzig was to hear in his life ?

The caterpillar crawled on through the grass, slowly
drawing near to the tree ; and the spark which Lucyan
could not see was burning slowly towards the rock ;
and all the time the bird's song continued, and Lucyan
felt as though this would never end.

When he looked at his watch he saw that just six
minutes were passed. Putting back the wattih he
drew out the trumpet. Up to this moment every one
of his movements had been mechanical. He had got
accustomed to the idea, as to a fact already accomplished.
As he held the trumpet in his hand, it
flashed upon him that nothing need be accomplished
unless he chose. The trumpet was at his lips ; but
though he held it there some seconds, there came
no sound. It might have been want of breath that
checked him, or it might have been want of courage,
or it might as well have been that he did not lack
courage.

It was still at his lips when a low dull sound which
he knew well grew upon his ear. The rumble swelled
slowly to a loud report ; the rock heaved, and, bursting,
flew to fragments. There was a cloud of smoke,
a veil of sand, and a shower of small stones. It was
all over.

A sense of relief-came over Lucyan — of sudden, of
immense relief; one way or the other the matter was
settled. The trumpet dropped from his fingers to the
grass as he stood gazing steadily up the slope.

The aspect of the spot was changed, but not as
much as he had expected ; for it was the furthest of
the two rocks that had fallen — the nearest one stood
upright still. Shattered blocks lay on the grass, and
on them the dust and smoke were slowly settling
down again. The silence was once more complete.
There had been no shriek, no other sound beyond the
explosion. The idea of Aitzig being dead came upon
Lucyan suddenly as a complete improbability. He
looked round him. The road was empty ; there was
not a human being within sight.

Curiosity had taken entire possession of him ; he
wanted to know whether Aitzig were up there or not,
and slowly he began to ascend the slope.

Small curls of blue smoke floated towards him ; the
smell of gunpowder made him feel faint, and his steps
grew slow and heavy. The nearer that he approached
the spot, the more improbable did Aitzig's death appear.
Aitzig might at this moment be sitting at the
Propinacya peacefully watering his wodki.

The ground around the rock was rough with sharp
corners of stone. The now lonely twin stood mournful

but intact, staring down in stony surprise at the fragments
of its shivered companion.

Lucyan skirted it, and, coming round the corner, he
saw at a few paces a man lying stretched with his
face to the ground.

That the man was a Jew, the hasten, rent and torn,
told him ; and that this Jew was Aitzig Majulik, he
needed no hasten to tell him.

Dead ! " said Lucyan aloud, for there was no one
to hear him.

The rock alongside seemed to nod in melancholy
agreement.

That one word broke the silence painfully. Even
the humming insects seemed to pause, and the bird
had not resumed its song.

The attitude of the prostrate figure was that of a
dead man ; but Aitzig's face was hidden in the grass,
and Lucyan felt simultaneously a great repugnance
and a great desire to see that hidden face.

He made a step forward, then drew back again,
shuddering, but never taking his eyes off the man on
the ground.

Dead ! yes, surely dead ! " he whispered ; but no
answering nod came from the rock this time.

To Lucyan, it seemed as if it were shaking its stony
head in reply ; and before he had time to ask himself

what it meant, the whole block of stone had tottered,
and, slipping forward, was slowly falling upon him.

The shock of concussion had loosened its hold, or
perhaps the destruction of its brother had broken its
granite heart ; and refusing to survive for even one
day, the solitary twin had sought its own end.

Chapter Accounting

THE TRICKS.

Can no one hear? It is a perilous tale."

Coleridge.

The rock had been wrong when it nodded, and right
when it shook its head; for Aitzig Majulik was not
dead. He was crushed, mangled, and disfigured, but
the breath was still in his body. " He will die before
nightfall," the people said ; and they said the same for
many days afterwards ; but many nights fell, and four
weeks passed, and Aitzig still lingered.

Four weeks had been enough to blunt the first edge
of excitement, curiosity, and wonder which the accident,
resulting in the death of the master of Wowa-
sulla, had awakened. The inquiry and examination
of the workmen had led to no other conclusion than
that it had been an unfortunate chance, coupled with
some negligence.

Lucyan had been buried with much pomp, but little

grief; with many wax-candles, but few tears. His
fate was scarcely to be called a very cruel one, for lie
had been spared the agony of death. Death had made
a clean stroke of it here, — had killed him at one blow ;
he could hardly have had time to understand that the
rock was falling on him.

The neighbourhood had got used to Xenia's black
crape, and to Janina's ; for Janina now openly signed
herself by the name of Bielinska, and the little Marcin,
who had lately made his appearance in the world, and
for whom Janina had immediately bought the very
noisiest rattle that could be found in all Tarajow, was
universally acknowledged as the dead Marcin 's legal
son. No very positive proof of the marriage was forthcoming,
but Kazimir said that she had been his brother
]\rarcin's wife : and the same neighbourhood that had
once coldly patronised the prodigal, now bowed to the
decision of the master of Wowasulka. Lucyan's will
ascribing his fortune to his only child Wanda, now
dead, Kazimir became heir-at-law. The sixth part was
all to which the widow was entitled ; but Kazimir had
shown himself more than generous in restoring to her
her personal fortune. As yet he had made no change
in his own life, and curiosity still remained unsatisfied
as to what his future was to be. Wowasulka
was inhabited only by the widow, and now by Vizia,
dio had indeed no other home.

His communication with the two women had been
slight of late ; but one day a pink scented note was
brought to him, requesting his immediate presence.

The road was deep with mud, for the fine weather
had broken a fortnight ago ; and rain — grey, persistent,
and pitiless rain — had been falling ever since.

To reach Wowasulka, Kazimir had to pass by the
Propinacya buildings ; and here, to his surprise, he
found the road blocked with men who stood in groups,
regardless of the rain, and evidently labouring under
some excitement, though few of them raised their
voices above a whisper, and most of them stood silent.
The men where all Jews, Kazimir perceived, and their
eyes were all fixed in one direction, — towards the
closed door of the Propinacya.

Just as Kazimir was passing, the door opened, and
a small Icaftan-cXdidi figure rushed out, and straight towards
Kazimir it darted through the crowd.

Gracious Pan ! noble Master ! " shouted the little
Jew, " the God of Abraham has sent you."

Come nearer," said Kazimir, — "I do not understand
you;" for the miniature Hebrew, whose long robe,
tiny skull-cap, and diminutively snaky curls, presented
a most perfect copy of his elders, had come to
a standstill, and was looking apprehensively at the
horse's heels. He again shrieked out something, incomprehensible
to Kazimir.

Kazimir, turning to a group of older Jews, inquired
the reason of this disturbance.

"Aitzig Majulik is lying at the point of death,"
said one.

And we are waiting here to pray for his soul," said
another. " The wise man has said that he cannot last
till evening."

And he has been calling for you all night," said
a third. " Listen ! you can hear it now ! " and in the
silence which followed, Kazimir could distinctly hear
the voice of a man in delirium calling out his name.

Pan Bielinski ! Pan Bielinski 1 " it screamed.
'' I have to speak to the Pan Bielinski, to the master
of Wowasulka. Will no one call him ? Will no one
call him ? " — and the rest was deadened by the thickness
of the wall.

Kazimir sprang from his horse.

Immediately there rose a murmur in the crowd.
On all sides the Jews pressed forward towards him.

Let me pass," said Kazimir ; " I mean to go to
him."

You cannot, you cannot ! " they cried all round
him. " Your foot may not cross the threshold of his
house. Would you weigh down his soul at the moment
of flight ? Would you bring him back to earth
whom Jehovah calls to heaven ? The Angel of Death
stands at the door ; you cannot pass ! '

And the Jews, in their excitement, pressed close
around him ; and some held him back by his cloak,
and others put themselves between him and the door ;
while the wildest amongst them tore at their curls in
rage, and dancing about furiously in the mud, screamed
at the pitch of their voices, " Wai ! Wai"! the Gentile
must not pass ; he must not pass ! "

Make way, cowards ! " he said, shaking off on
either side some half-dozen of dirty hands; and
as his riding whip was stout and his mien determined,
the Jews danced out of his way; and, pursued
by a chorus of furious yells, Kazimir entered
the house.

With trembling fingers the little Hebrew bolted and
locked the door behind them ; and then drew Kazimir
forward along a pitch-dark corkscrew passage.

The same voice which he had heard through the
wall met his ears here, louder and more plaintive,
growing more distinct with every step along the passage.
Through the opening door it burst at last upon
him like the grating of some ill-tuned instrument, for
the poor wretch was hoarse with calling. And through
it all there ran an undercurrent of nasal recitation,
which never fluctuated in tone, however shrill might
grow the cries of the man in delirium.

The room was square, low, and close to suffocation.
Over each window there hung some piece of black

stuff — on one a ragged shawl, on the other a threadbare
blanket — shutting out the light from the lower panes.
There were at least seven beds in the room, all ranged
along the walls, and all heaped with feather-pillows,
whose embroidered stripes showed in strange contrast
to the dirt and dust around. Every bed was of a
different shape and height, as was also every chair in
the room ; for they had each been picked up as the
occasion offered, and there was not one of them which
had not been bought a bargain.

In a further corner, a mass of old iron made a rusty
hillock, — a sack bursting with goose-feathers lay alongside
; above it there hung two thick plaits of fair hair,
^ which, only a week ago, had still wreathed the head
of some peasant-beauty. There were jugs too on the
table, and bottles, and a mingled smell of ivddki and
garlic pervading the room. The door of a closet in the
wall stood ajar, just wide enough to afford a glimpse
of a broken bird-cage, and of a saddle on which the
leather hung down in rags. Smaller objects, such as
old tooth-brushes, single ear-rings, and pocket combs,
occupied a higher shelf to themselves.

Several people were in the room, although, in the
half darkness, Kazimir could not at once distinguish
them all. A youth was laying straw in the centre
of the floor ; some paces further, a man sat crouching
on his heels beside one of the beds; and on that bed

there lay Aitzig Majulik, supported in the arms of his
wife.

The woman's feet were slipshod, and her petticoat
patched ; she wore a dirty cotton bedgown, a ragged
neck-handkerchief, a greasy satin wig, and a coronet
of pearls and diamonds, which might have graced a
crowned head. There had been a time when the teeth
of Aitzig's wife had been as white as those pearls, and
her eyes as bright as the diamonds that shone among
them : now the jewels only served to set off the
wrinkles of her withered cheek, and the sharp lines
of her haggard features. They made a dazzling frame
to her ugliness ; for the teeth that remained to her were
yellow, and the eyes sunken and dull, showing no
lustre either of tenderness, pity, or grief, as she held
up her dying husband in her arms.

As Kazimir entered, the shrill cries dropped suddenly
; and when he approached the bed, Aitzig lay
quite silent, and stared at him blankly.

You called me," said Kazimir — " here I am."

Aitzig examined him with anxiety, a puzzled frown
upon his face.

I want the master of Wowasulka ; you are not the
master of Wowasulka."

There is no other now."

I wish you were the master of Wowasulka," said
Aitzig, in a whisper so feeble that Kazimir could

hardly catch it ; " you would not have treated a poor
man as the other did. Oh cruel, cruel, world ! "

He has been wandering since yesterday," observed
the wife, in a mechanical tone.

Aitzig lay and stared at Kazimir, as if struggling to
get at some conclusion. Suddenly he seemed to have
reached it ; he clutched at Kazimir 's arm.

The paper," he whispered — " the paper ; you have
got it for me? you have brought it to me? where
is it?"

What paper ? I know of no paper."

The voucher for the six thousand florins ; the railway
money. Ah, my memory is good : you wanted me
to give it back ; but no, no, no, Aitzig is no fool," — a
shade of senseless cunning passed over his white face,
" only now they have stolen it; they could not find it
in my kaftan ; it is lost — lost ; but you have brought
it back ? " and eagerly he stretched a shaking hand
towards Kazimir.

I know of no paper," said Kazimir again.

The* sick man gazed at him long and piercingly,
then dropped his hand, and turned deliberately round
in his bed, away from Kazimir.

Oh, I forgot," he said, with a weary sigh ; " it was
the other brother."

For several minutes he did not move, and the nasal
invocations of the crouching Jew beside the bed were

VOL. III. N

the only sound in the room. The silence was so long
that the old Jewess bent over him scrutinisingly, and
then inquired of her grandson whether the candlestick
were ready, and the sheet, and directed him to
take the cracked mirror from the wall ; for it is bad
luck to see two corpses in the room, instead of one.

Outside also, the silence had been noticed ; the professional
mourners began to give a few preliminary
howls, as though to get their voices into training for
the labour that awaited them.

The howls aroused Aitzig ; he moved again in his
bed,, and this time there was a return of intelligence
in his eye. It alighted first upon his eldest grandson.
"mind, Since," he said, almost in his usual voice,
the feathers are not to be given under eight thirty-five
; the soft ones at the mouth of the sack, the stiff
ones below."

Then his eye travelled on towards Kazimir.
"Your brother is dead," he began abruptly. "Do
you mourn for him ? "

Why should I not ? " said Kazimir, evasively.
Aitzig shook his head. " You should not mourn for
him. What was he to you when he lived ? A false
friend, a false brother, a traitor."
Hush," said Kazimir, quickly.
The crouching Jew broke off his recitation, and sat
down to rest upon a bundle of old coats ; for Aitzig

was not dying as quickly as he had expected, and
his joints were cramped by the hard boards.

"Hush," said Kazimir. "What can you know
about it?"

"What should Aitzig not know? Aitzig was his
right hand ; without Aitzig he could have done nothing
of what he did. I worked his plans; I knew
his secrets. Ah, secrets are good things ! " cried
Aitzig, in feverish excitement — "for secrets bring
money ; everything is good that brings money. The
stinking grease brings the chinking gold, they say.
Tell me, Pan Kapitan, will you pay me for the secret ?
for all the secrets ? How much gold will you give to
old Aitzig if he tells you the lady's name ? " His
mind was beginning to wander again.

Is the straw laid ready ? " asked the wife, in a dry
whisper.

Kazimir looked at her inquiringly.

They die more easily on the ground," she explained,
in a matter-of-fact tone.

No — no — no ! " cried Aitzig, " not yet the straw.
I cannot die without the paper. I must have the six
thousand florins. Noble Pan, give me the paper ; why
will you not give the paper to poor old Aitzig ? " and
he began to whimper like a child.

The watching Jew, leaving his bundle, crouched
down again on his heels, and resumed his recitation ;

and the door slowly opening, there poured in a stream
of black figures, all whispering as they began to move
about the room, making their noiseless preparations.
One trimmed the wax-candle which was to burn at
the head of the dead man, but did not light it yet, for
that would have been waste. Another put together on
the threshold all vessels containing water, ready to be
emptied out on the road when the Angel of Death, in
passing, should have dipped his fingers in it ; for the
water then smells of human blood. Another busied
himself in taking from the wall the many-striped,
many-coloured bag, containing the black and silver
scarf, which had been the proudest acquisition of
Aitzig's life.

And every Jew as he came in passed his hand over
a parchment-tablet in the wall beside the door-post,
and kissed the fingers which had touched the parchment
; 1 and all of them, as they moved about, or stood
in a circle round the bed, cast gloomy and threatening
glances towards the intruder, whose unhallowed presence
was sacrilegiously disturbing the last hour of this
child of Israel.

You should be commending your soul to your forefathers,"
they said to the sick man, " instead of wasting
your minutes in godless parley with a Christian."

1 The universal prayer of the Jews, called " Sadaj," which signifies
Almighty.

Your hour of glory is coming," said another. " Before
sunset you will rest in the bosom of Abraham ; "
and he held out the silver-striped shroud, shaking it
into tempting folds before Aitzig's eyes. But Aitzig
shivered convulsively and turned away; the silver
scarf had no charms for him just now.

0, my God," he murmured after the others, " the
soul Thou hast given me is pure. Thou hast created
it in me, and Thou hast breathed it into me, and Thou

watches over it in the midst of me " He broke off

with a groan, then opened his eyes again. " Since,"
he whispered to his grandson, " remember the big jar
of wddki is not to be sold till it has been mixed. Am
I dying now ? I wonder who it was that killed me ?
There were the workmen, and the sun shone, and
there was a noise like thunder when I stood between
the rocks. I don't remember the rest. Who killed
me? Was it you?" and he turned his head again
towards Kazimir.

Kazimir stood silent ; and for a minute Aitzig lay
silent also, apparently collecting the last remnants of
his mental powers. When he spoke again he had
regained a momentary clearness.

Pan Kapitan, do you remember how you gave up
your rights four years ago ? — all your rights to Wowa-
sulla ? "

'' I remember," said Kazimir.

And how you got a paper which spoke of the Pro-panacea
and the lease ? "

Yes, yes," said Kazimir ; " what of it ? "

I wrote that lease, Pan Kapitan. It was signed
by my name; but that paper — that paper — hush!"
he checked himself — "there are too many people
listening. Bend over me; I will whisper it."

Kazimir bent down to listen : but the face on the
pillow was convulsed by a sharp spasm ; a sort of
shuddering moan burst from the withered lips.

The fit is coming on again," said the woman ; " he
cannot speak while it lasts."

I must go now," said Kazimir, stepping back, and
the black figures all round nodded approvingly : but
Aitzig caught him by the cloak.

Pan Kapitan, Pan Kapitan," he panted, though
twisting in pain, " you must come back. I shall not
die yet ; I cannot die, you know, till I have my
money;" and the cold drops stood on his forehead.
I have a secret to tell you — one of your brother's
secrets. You will pay me for it. Say you will come
back. Promise ! "

Do these fits last long ? " asked Kazimir, turning
to the wife.

An hour or more," she answered, shortly.

I shall come back in an hour, Aitzig."

Promise," said the sick man again.

I promise."

The grasp of the fingers relaxed. " Yes," he groaned,
with a painful effort, " I shall wait for you here at
this place — the same place, but not between the rocks
no, no, no — not between the rocks ; " and the wildness
returned to his eye.

The black circle around the bed opened readily tolet
Kazimir pass.

Lay him on the straw ; it is time," Kazimir
heard them say, as he reached the door ; but in the
midst of his convulsion Aitzig found strength to
shriek —

Xot yet — not yet the straw ! "

They were lifting him out by the time Kazimir had
regained the air, and he could still hear how the poor
wretch was shrieking, " Not yet, not yet ! I cannot
die yet ! " but the screams were drowned in a nasal
chorus of prayer.

The game of Aitzig's life was fast drawing to a close.
This knave was to take no more tricks at the card-table
of the world. But there are plenty other knaves
ready to step into his place. The game never stops
for want of proper cards, nor of players either. For
does not every one of us figure at that card-table,
sometimes as card, sometimes as player ? And is not
life very like a game at which we each have to take
our turn, where we each try to get the better of the

other, and where some must of necessity lose, in order
that others may gain ? To be sure, we can never quite
know who is gainer and who is loser until the end is
reached and the points are scored ; and points such as
these can be scored only on deathbeds.

Aitzig's game is wellnigh played out, as Lucyan's is
entirely ; but not so Kazimir's, nor some others yet.
The game will go on after my curtain is dropped, just
as it had begun before it ever was raised. I have
done no more than show a few turns.

1 have still a few more turns to show ; for there are
cards which might yet be paired off before this round
is closed.

Was there not a pink note in Kazimir's pocket
summoning him to an interview at Wowasulka ?

CHAPTER XXII.

Casimir REVOKES.

■ War sie der Flamme night worth, die so feiirig Geliebte, verzeih ir I "

Brinkmann.

This way," said the barefooted servant - girl to
Kazimir. " Xot that door, Pan Kapitan, — this one."
It was the drawing-room door which Kazimir had
been opening, and the room to which she pointed
was Xenia's bedroom.

There was a grin on the girl's stupid face as she
held back the door for him ; and feeling vaguely
uneasy as to the meaning of the grin, and somewhat
surprised at being admitted into this sanctuary, Kashmir,
almost timidly, stepped over the threshold.

It seemed to him that he was stepping right into
a rare plant-house — so hot was the air, and so heavily
scented with rich perfumes, mingling their sweet breath
in an almost overpowering fragrance — patchouli, wood-violet,
and new-mown hay, were all contending for the

upper hand, and with them was struggling another —
and here unusual odour, — nothing less than the smell
of tobacco.

But it was a most delicate and tender tobacco : it
curled in a faint blue wreath from a fragile cigarette,
and the cigarette was held between Xenia's fingers, as
she reclined on a sofa, with her widow's weeds flowing
around her.

And such widow's weeds they were ! Not a fault
could have been pointed by the sternest moralist.
The mourning was as deep as the most iron etiquette
could demand ; and yet in its very depth Xenia had
found means to mirror her beauty. Every touch served
to set it off — from the broad white band encircling the
skirt, with which Polish custom marks the nearest
loss, to the coquettishly chiffonne morsel of crape
which Xenia called her widow's cap, but which
looked more like a big black butterfly settling by
mistake on the side of her chestnut head.

I hope you do not mind my receiving you here —
in this way " — said Xenia, looking down first at herself
and then upwards at Kazimir, confidently, for an
answer. " You know how wretchedly ill I have been
lately; I am quite unable to dress properly." Her
attire was a flowing dressing-gown, gathered by a black
cord into loose folds at the slender waist. The sleeves
were wide and hanging ; and Xenia, as she spoke, gave

a little graceful pull to one of them, as if all at once
distressed at the amount of white arm displayed.

You might have come to see me sooner, Kazimir,"
she said, reproachfully; 'you need not have waited
for my note."

I should have come soon, at any rate," said
Kazimir ; " for you have heard of the change, of
course ? "

About the regiment marching ? "

Yes."

What has that to do with it ? " said Xenia, lightly.

'' Only that I meant to say good-bye."

'*' Good-bye ! " She repeated the word with another
laugh, as if nothing so exquisitely amusing as this
word good-bye had ever been heard. "You make
me laugh, Kazimir ; you talk as if there really were
any reason for saying good-bye."

I hardly understand " began Kazimir ; but

Xenia, who all this time had been drawing persistent
though timid puffs from her cigarette, began to cough
with some violence.

You never used to smoke before," said Kazimir, as
she regained her breath.

Because Lucyan never would let me. There are so
many things which Lucyan would never let me do ;
I have never known liberty before. Don't you find
that the room looks quite changed ? "

Kazimir had noticed already that the room was
changed, — not exactly in any prominent feature, butin
a host of minute details.

It was on Xenia's toilet-table that were now ranged
those numerous scent-bottles and cut-glass phials which
Lucy an had always kept for his own exclusive use.
The porcelain stove, which in Lucyan's time had
been fed but sparingly, was now crammed to bursting,
and glowing to an intolerable degree. The
gardening books which once filled the shelves, where
now piled in a corner on the floor, with the exception
of the well-worn 'Hints to the Rose-lover,'
which, from its shape, had been found a convenient
block for winding some black lace flounces that
required smoothing.

Kazimir had not loved his brother, and yet these
signs in the room pained him. They were not enough
to make him regret Lucyan, but they were enough
to make him again regret that their last words
had been so bitter.

Last night," said Xenia, " I was so frightened by a
dream. I dreamt that Lucyan was alive again, and
walked into the room softly, just as he used to do,
and found me using his wood-violet scent. I think
I screamed, and that awoke me; and it was such a
relief to see that his bed was empty."

She paused, twirling the cigarette between her

fingers, and watching Kazimir from under her eyelashes.
He was rather stupid to-day, she thought,
and slow to take the hints she had given him.

That is why I sent for you," she added aloud.

Kazimir certainly was very stupid to-day; apparently
he could see no connection between Xenia's
dream and Xenia's message.

You are dropping ashes on your dress," he prosaically
remarked.

Xenia brushed them off, with a pout on her lips.

'* I don't think you are getting on very well with
that cigarette. Do you really care for smoking ? "

Oh, very much," said Xenia, blinking her eyes in
the smoke. " So many women smoke, you know ;
don't all officers' wives smoke ? "

Some of them do."

The pretty widow smoked, did she not 1 "

Yes."

Xenia smiled, and threw another expectant glance
at Kazimir. *

And now I am a widow too."

Clearly it was his part to put in the word '' pretty,"
which she had omitted.

His silence provoked her — it scarcely alarmed her
yet.

Do you object to women smoking ? "

No, not particularly."

'' If— if you think, — if— if you wish it, I will stop,"
said Xenia, most sincerely; for in truth she was
choked and parched, and longing for an excuse to
get rid of her cigarette.

Kazimir disclaimed any such wish.

She tossed her head in a way which made the crape-butterfly
give a sort of flutter in her hair; but the
cigarette was laid aside.

I have made no changes yet in any of the other
rooms," she said ; " but we shall have to get new
furniture in the drawing-room; don't you think
so?"

I have not thought about it," said Kazimir, starting
at something in her phrase.

Of course you will have to decide." She looked
at him with a charmingly submissive glance. " You
must choose it yourself; what is your favourite colour ?"

Black," said Kazimir, rather grimly.

How absurd of you ! " She looked down at her
black dress, shook up her rattling black bracelets, and
blushed a little at the supposed compliment. " But it
would never do to have black furniture, you know ; I
think blue would be best. I never dared to ask Lucy
an for blue furniture ; and — oh yes, I have had all
the flower-pots taken away ; you never liked flowers,
you know, and you were always knocking them
down."

Kazimir's face had suddenly become very grave.
There is no need to consult me' he said, slowly; " I
am going away."

But you are coming back again ? "

He was silent.

When are you coming back again ? " Her voice
betrayed the slightest possible tremor ; the first chord
of alarm had been touched within her.

When are you coming back ? "

I do not know."

But it will be soon, — very soon ? In a few weeks ?
in a few months ? before the end of this year ? "

No, Xenia ; I do not think it will be this year."

She began to get frightened, although still half incredulous.
Every word hitherto had been but a sort of
light skirmishing : she had played and coquetted with
her meaning — had been a little piqued at his slowness
to seize the prize offered — but had been unable to
realise that there could be any positive hesitation' in
the grasping of that prize. She did not quite realise
it yet ; only the grave expression of his face awoke in
her a sort of nameless panic.

Kazimir ! " she broke out, " it is you who should
be speaking now, not I. Will you say nothing tome?"


I will say good-bye," he answered, very low.

Xenia made an attempt to laugh it off; but she was

half sitting up on the sofa now, and, with her bare arms
on the table, was gazing at him anxiously.

Do not look so grave, Kazimir — you frighten me :
tell me that you are happy. Just think how long we
have waited for this moment. I thought that I should
be quite old and grey by the time it came." There was
a mirror hanging straight opposite the sofa, and instinctively
Xenia's eyes travelled towards it. Her
courage revived, and with it her coquetry. " You
have been trying to frighten me, Kazimir, — have you
not ? Look at me, Kazimir ! "

Kazimir looked. He saw a beautiful woman, with
unabashed eyes, and pettishly parted lips. He marked
the coquettish pose: the bare arms, now fully displayed
; the carefully exposed foot ; the hand, which
played with the curl. He knew that every one of
these touches was calculated to work upon him, — and
he wondered a little at his own indifference. Why
was he so cold ? He knew, and had known for sometime
past, that he had gained her love — what love she
had to give. Why did his heart not bound ? Not one
of these signs had power to move him. He was
conscious only of an oppression which made him
long to leave her presence. He rose abruptly, and
walked to the window. Xenia got up and followed
him.

You loved me all the time, Kazimir, — did you not ?

I know you did. It must have been a dreadful time
for you. Do you understand me now ? Do you not
understand yet ? "

Still he stood beside her, silent, and apparently
unmoved.

Oh, Kazimir, how stupid you are to-day ! Do
you not see ? You are to be made happy ! "

That cannot be," said Kazimir, below his breath.

She thought he still doubted his own happiness, as
too great.

But it really can be," she said, with a flippant
laugh. " Lucyan is dead, and you have deserved your
reward ; you have loved me so long ; and you love meas
much as ever, do you not ? Lucyan always used to
say so."

Kazimir's face was averted, and his features were
working now.

Kazimir ! " she cried, with an hysterical scream ;
you must love me still ! You cannot, you cannot be
faithless ! "

As you once were to me," thought Kazimir ; but
he kept down the words.

'' I know what it is," — and Xenia burst into a flood
of tears, — " you do not think me pretty any more ;
you think I have lost my looks. But it is not true —
it really is not true ; it was only Lucyan who said so
to torment me. It is only the mourning ; black does

VOL. III.

not suit me— it makes me look pale ; but I will leave
it off as soon as you like. I know it is only the
black ! " and Xenia, with feverish energy, tore the
crape - butterfly from her hair, and threw it on the
ground ; and pulling off her jet bracelets, flung them
in a rattling heap on the table.

No, no, Xenia ! " said Kazimir, with a deep-drawn
sigh ; " it is not that, — it is "

It is what ? "

I do not know," he said, sadly. " It is not as it
used to be."

What is not as it used to be ? "

Everything is changed."

Changed ? I knew it ! " She stamped her foot.
What do you find changed ? Are my eyes less blue ?
Look at me ! " She laughed through her tears with
brazen boldness.

Oh no, not that."

Has my hair turned grey ? "

No."

Is my skin wrinkled or freckled ? "

He shook his head ; " you are as beautiful as ever,
Xenia."

Ah ! " she drew a sigh of relief " Then, what cadi
you mean ? What is it, Kazimir ? "

What was it indeed ? Was she not as fair as ever ?
Was she not free ? and did she not love him ? Had

he not sighed for her love as for the most precious
thing in life ? and now he held it !

Could it be perhaps that precisely because he held
it, he was able to see at last how poor a thing it was
to have sighed for, and to have gained ? how little
of it, after all, she had to give ?

Nothing was changed, and yet everything was
changed ; it was all different now from what it had
been. But the guilt was Lucyan's, and not hers.
He it was who had turned the once shrinking girl
into this forward woman ; he it was who had fostered
her vanity to further his own ends, who had taught
her that flippant laugh, who had hardened her to
blushes, who had debased what intellect she had,
changed her modesty into boldness; who had done
everything but embitter her sweetness. He it was
who, even dead, had left his influence upon her, and
who from his grave still pulled the strings of the
puppet he had fashioned.

With a good husband, she would have been a good
woman. If a clinging plant be trained to grow upon
an oak-tree, it will in time raise its head as high as
the oak itself ; and if it be taught to trail along the
mire, it will creep through the mud, obedient to the
hand that guides it. It was only that she had learnt
her lesson too well ; it was only that a beautiful thing
had been wilfully spoilt. Oh, it was a pity 1

A pity ! a pity ! " it echoed in Kazimir's heart, —
while Xenia, clinging to his arm, sobbed, and repeated
that she knew it was only the black; that it could
not be true ; that he must love her still — he must, he
must ! for her vanity, seriously mortified for the first
time in her life, lent her a feverish flow of words.

Her arms were round his neck now, and her head
on his shoulder. What would he not once have given
for this ? And now he stood like a statue of ice ;
keenly aware that this silence, this coldness was
ungracious, cruelly ungracious to her; but feeling
equally that if he spoke, his words would be more
cruel yet. What could he say ? Reproaches ? he had
made them long ago. Explanations? she would not
understand them. How should she ever fathom the
reason of this change, she who never looked deeper
than her looking-glass, never higher than her own
exquisite coiffure, never lower than her Parisian shoes ?
Her eyes would have been sharp enough to detect the
first grey hair on her head, the first wrinkle on her
face, but blind to see that which Kazimir saw in her.
No ; it was a hopeless task, and he did not attempt it.
Softly, very softly disengaging her arms, he led her
back to the sofa.

"We should not have made each other happy,
Xenia," he said, sadly. " Once I thought differently ;
but it is I who am to blame, not you. I made a great

mistake, that is all. Forgive nie for this suffering-forgive
me, if you can. You will be happier when I
am gone ; " but she only threw herself on her cushions
and sobbed, and stormed like a child who has thrown
away its plaything, and wants it back again. But
the plaything was broken, and could not be mended :
there was no glue in the world, nor hammer and nails,
which could make the toy whole again. Not even
Kazimir could do it. He had been very loving, and
very generous ; but now his generosity was run dry,
his love was exhausted. For many weeks past it had
been dying a slow death. He could no more revive

it than he could call Lucyan from the grave. There

ft

remained but a bitter regret for what might have been,
and a poignant pity for the suffering he now saw.

And it was unavoidable that Kazimir should exaggerate
the suffering, putting down to the score of her
new affection more than was due to it, and forgetting
to cast in the balance the large proportion of hurt
vanity which caused these tears to flow.

"Will you not say good-bye, at least?" sobbed
Xenia, convulsively, and then flew out at him afresh,
when he attempted to do as she asked him. It was
cruel of him, heartless, inhuman, to speak even of
saying farewell ; she could not have believed it of him ;
and the hysterics began again with redoubled force.

The kindest course was to go, thought Kazimir;

and rising softly, lie walked to the door. There was
no need to tear himself away as he had done once
before, and there was no more danger in the lingering
look with which he left her, wondering a little
at himself for haying ceased to love her. The wonder
was rather that he had loved her so long.

CHAPTER XXIII.

HANDS AND HEARTS.

For Love himself took part against himself."

—Tennyson.

Choked with all that patchouli and wood-violet, surfeited
with all that beauty, Kazimir stood in the cool
passage, and drew a deep breath. Looking back at
the interview just ended, there came over him, with
overpowering vividness, a sense of the awkwardness,
nay, the absurdity of the part he had had to play.
A man who refuses the broad advances of a beautiful
woman, can never quite escape looking rather like a
fool. Kazimir felt a wish to do something which
should rid him of this impression. He wanted to be
active now, and not passive ; and the action, he felt,
must be immediate.

Perhaps it was the violence of this revulsion which
suddenly ripened a thought that had lain dormant
within him for some weeks past. All at once it

started up and stared him full in the eyes ; and before
he had even quite realised his own resolution, Kazimir
was already beginning to act upon it.

He opened one door after another, and looked in
hastily ; he eagerly traversed the sitting-rooms and
the dining-room ; he returned again to the passage disappointed,
— the person he looked for was not there.

The house was quite silent, except for the far-off
creak of an open window, and for the strokes of a
vigorous broom which could be heard sweeping a ,floor
somewhere in the distance above. A housemaid might
give him the information he wanted, thought Kazimir ;
and following the sound of the broom, he rapidly
mounted the staircase.

Up here there were many doors also, all closed ; he
followed the sound of the broom from door to door :
it led him to the door of an attic-room ; but just as he
reached it, the sweeping came to a full stop, and the
silence of the house was again unbroken. He looked
at the other doors doubtfully, not quite sure whether
the sweeping had indeed been in here ; then, after a
second's hesitation, he turned the handle.

A current of cold air swept furiously towards him ;
the open window gave a jingling bang, and a cloud of
whirling dust danced before his eyes.

Through the dust-cloud he saw a woman's figure
against the light. She was leaning on her broom and

gazing from the window, but started round as he
entered.

Can you tell me where to find Panna Vizia ? "

Kazimir had got thus far in addressing the housemaid,
when, meeting her eyes as she turned towards
him, he saw that the housemaid was Panna Vizia herself.


Good heavens ! " he broke out, " what are you
doing here?"

Sweeping," said Vizia, coolly, and resuming her
Avork in haste.

Sweeping ! Are there no servants in the house ?
This must not be ; " and acting on his first impulse of
indignation, he tried to take the broom from her hands ;
but she resisted almost angrily.

Why must it not be ? " she retorted, with a sort of
savage sullenness.

But what for ? What are you doing to the room ? "
cried the mystified Kazimir.

It is going to be my room now, and I am clearing
it ; I shall be in nobody's way up here."

Following her glance around, Kazimir looked about
him, and shuddered a little at what he saw.

This was the same room which, years ago, Lucyan
had occupied, when he was still the younger son of
the house, and not its master. But the nest, once so
cosily fitted up, had long stood deserted ; a picture of

comfort then, it was now a picture of desolation. Traces
there still remained of what had been; although a
lumber-room for years past, there were marks, even
here, which spoke of Lucyan. The green box till
stood in the window ; and though the snows of many
winters had rotted the wood, and the sunshine of
many summers had blistered the colour from off its
sides, the ruin was shelter enough for the few shrivelled
corpses of plants, which stood dead but not buried,
trembling dismally in the draught. On the wall there
hung a scrap of white paper, held by one nail only ;
and as it flapped upwards, Kazimir recognised the face
of one of the beauties out of Lucyan's gallery. She
had been the least pretty of them, he remembered.
Among the rubbish on the floor there lay the torn-off
yellow cover of an old French novel, one which had
been in fashion four years ago. There were empty
packing-cases and discarded chairs, and mounds of
dust on every side ; and in the middle of it all stood
Vizia, with her head held high and her hair blown
rough by the wind, looking as if she were the queen
of this disorder, and her broom the sceptre with
which she ruled it.

Do you like the room ? " she asked, with a triumphant
smile, as if she rather enjoyed Kazimir's evident
discomfiture. " Do you not think it comfortable ? "

Not very," said he, with a shiver ; for the draught

was cutting, and perhaps the atmosphere from which
he had just come had rather enervated him.

It will do well enough for me ; I am not a fine
lady, you know ; why should I be ? "

But you are not a servant either," said Kazimir,
with some heat ; " it cannot be proper for a lady todo
housemaid's work ? Are there not enough of them
here?"

Plenty ; but I do not choose to ask them ; " and,
as though expressly to provoke him, Vizia began to
be very busy with the dust-heaps on the floor. " Do
you think I am ashamed of sweeping? Did I look
ashamed when you came in ? "

You got red, certainly."

Nonsense ! Need ? I never get red," said Vizia.
turning scarlet. " And if I did, it certainly was not
for my broom that I blushed, but only because you
caught me at an idle moment, — looking out of the
window, instead of at work."

Why will you persist in degrading yourself ? "

Why will you persist in calling it degradation ?
Is work a degradation ? Do you think I would stay
here, beggar as I am, to live at ease and eat the bread
which you and Xenia give me, if I could not do something
in return ? "

You are talking folly, Vizia."

Am I ? and I should be sensible, I suppose, if I

laid down my broom and obeyed you. Shall I sit
on a sofa and wear kid gloves ? Is that what you
want me to do ? Look, I never wear kid gloves now ;
my hands are getting used to it — look ! " she said,
with a bitter smile, and held her hands towards him,
roughened and blistered with work.

o

And Xenia allows this ? " cried Kazimir, in horror.

Of course ; and why not ? What else am I buta
servant in this house ? "

Stop ! " cried Kazimir — " stop, Vizia ! Will you
be its mistress ? "

She stood still, as if struck to stone — immovable
as a marble statue, and in a moment almost as pale.
Her wide eyes were fixed on him with a look that
was like consternation. The bitter smile which belonged
to her last words still hovered about her lips,
though it had no meaning now. Her hands were
still held out mechanically towards Kazimir. She
drew them slowly back ; but, quick to see the opportunity,
he had hold of them already.

Now only did her expression change. Her smile
faded; she started back proudly, while the colour
flamed in her cheek.

What do you mean ? I do not understand you."

I want you to let me take care of you, Vizia."

I can take care of myself," she said, quickly.

But I can take care of you better. You shall never

work again. You have been working for years past,
Vizia ; why should you not have your turn of rest ? "

Vizia stood quite quiet, no longer trying to draw
her hands from his. . She had not even lowered her
eyes, but was earnestly and curiously examining
Kazimir's face.

Do you know what you are doing ? " she asked,
after a second's pause. " You are asking me to marry
you?"

Of course I am asking you to marry me."

You mean this seriously ? upon your honour ? "

Upon my honour," said Kazimir.

Do you love me ? " she asked, in a sort of breathless
haste ; and as she asked it she came a step
nearer, and, still with her hands in his, stood looking
at him hungrily for the answer.

Her lips were parted : her breast began to rise and
fall convulsively. In her eyes there burnt an eager
light — the sudden flaring of a hope which she had
never dared to foster. It made her into a different
woman. In her shabby brown dress, her sleeves
rolled up housemaid-fashion, with her reddened hands,
her rough hair powdered by the flying dust, she stood
before Kazimir, almost beautiful for once in her life.

A silence had fallen in the room ; for Kazimir,
taken aback by the question so suddenly put, could
find no words on the instant. Love ? Yizia was asking

whether he loved her ? And this he had not even
asked himself. A little time ago and he had loved
Xenia. Cannot affections be transferred ? Could not
the fire which had gone out in one place be kindled
again in another ? Love her ? Why, he wished her
well, he esteemed her, he was grateful to her, and he
loved no other woman — now. Was not that enough ?
It would have been enough, only that something in
Kazimir's heart cried out that he had known another
feeling than this, and that he had called that other
thing love. He could not give them both the same
name.

The silence was not long — only long enough for the
loose window-frame to give half-a-dozen melancholy
rattles, and the flapping picture to hide its face, and
show it again once or twice in quick succession — only
long enough for Vizia to live through a whole lifetime
of hope and fear, and exquisite doubt and torturing
suspense.

Kazimir was true to the heart's core, and yet he
would have said the lie. Nothing but the lie could
still that hungering look on her face. If it was a lie
to say that he loved her, why, then, the world had
been all along mistaken about lies. A lie, such as
this one, must be a good thing ; it could do harm to
no one, and great good to that woman, who hung on
his lips for her answer.

Kazimir's tongue would have said the lie, but his
eyes could not; and before he had spoken, she checked
him.

Do not say it ! I know the answer. I would
not hear a false word from you. You do not love
me."

I will make you happy," said Kazimir, earnestly.

You do not love me," said Yizia, again ; and she
took her hands from his. It was strange how, at the
very moment that the suspense was broken, the flash
of light which had beautified her went out. The
flame, dying in her cheek, left her face of a grey
paleness ; her eyes lost their fire ; her lips their
tremulous curve.

And if you do not love me, why have you asked
me this ? " said Yizia, in a tone of sharp suspicion ;
but before he had time to answer, her mind, travelling
along the line of thought she had awakened, had
found an answer for itself. " Oh, it is clear; I might
have guessed it sooner. You offer to marry me because
I am poor ; you want to undo the harm which
others have done. I am a beggar, yes ; but I am not
quite beggar enough to accept your pity, even when
you give it by the name of your love."

I will not call it love, then," cried Kazimir,
vehemently ; " call it what you like, but trust yourself
to me. It is true that my brother has ruined you ashe

has ruined others ; and it would be no more than
justice if, to repair the effects of that harm, I were to
work at your happiness."

At the cost of your own," said Vizia, sharply.

I understand you ; but you mistake. That dream
is over."

Vizia eyed him keenly.

It may be true, and I do not wonder. You have
come straight from her now ; perhaps it is by contrast
that you find me worthy of regard to-day."

You have no right to talk like this," cried Kashmir,
stung to the quick by her tone; "you have no
right to impute to me motives. My offer is honestly
meant ; and what right have you, either, to belie your
own heart? For all your fierce words, you know,
Vizia, that you love me."

Vizia covered her face with her hands ; but after a
moment she looked up resolutely. " Yes," she said, in
her hardest, most ungracious manner, with no trace of
womanly softness either in eyes or tone, — " yes, I have
been foolish, very foolish and weak. I love you, — I
have loved you for long."

"Then you cannot refuse me," and Kazimir, with
new eagerness, tried to take her hands again; but
Vizia shook her head, and clung once more to her
broom, as though it were the weapon with which she
meant to, fight him.

You quite mistake me. It is just because I love
you that I cannot many you."

I never quite understood you, Vizia ; and I certainly
do not understand you now."

Do you not see ? If we were indifferent to each
other, I might marry you, and be satisfied with the
humdrum sort of affection which is all you could ever
give me ; I might have put up then with having merely
a good friend in my husband ; but this way, this way
it is too much of an experiment."

Let us try the experiment," said Kazimir.

You may be willing to try it, I am not. I never
was beautiful ; in ten years I shall be a middle-aged
woman, and you still a young man. You will
be sought after by the world, by women, and you
would want pleasures which you would not find at
home."

Never ! " said Kazimir, with a very wise smile.
I have outlived all that." For he honestly believed
that his power of affection was exhausted for ever, and
that the romance of his first love was never to have a
sequel.

I should torment myself and you," went on Vizia,
calmly. " I should persecute you with my jealousy.
No : you are too handsome, too successful, too brilliant
a man to be my husband."

"Indeed, Vizia, you underrate yourself, and you

VOL. III. P

overrate me. Such dangers as you talk of are no
longer dangers for nie."

Vizia laughed. "How old are you? Not quite
thirty-one, I think. And your heart is dead, is it?
And you will never love again ? And the world
has no more perils for you ? Bah ! Tell that to
some one else, not to me. You will thank me for
this some day; you will thank me as soon as your
mortified vanity has stopped smarting. What would
be the use of my being a woman if I did not see,
more clearly than you do, what it is that makes you
speak now? It is pity that moves you, and gratitude,
and perhaps some sudden reaction ; but that
will not do for me. How can you dare to say that
your heart is dead, or that you will not love again ?
Believe me, Kazimir, though I am no prophetess, you
will find some other woman to love, and to love you ;
just as surely as that pretty child below-stairs will find
plenty more men willing to marry her, and each of
whom she would willingly marry."

But the problematical woman of the future had no
power over Kazimir as yet; just as he felt no particular
taste for the shadowy men amongst whom his late
love was to make her choice.

Do not put me off with words, Vizia," he urged,
more vehemently. " Your reasons are no reasons ;
you can give me no ground for refusing me, except

that you love me. Why will you speak only of
your cousin's future and of mine ? What is your
own to be ? "

"I know well what it is to be," said Vizia, in a
whisper ; and Kazimir saw that her eyes were wet
now, and her lips quivering. It made him think
that she was yielding''

Have I conquered you, Vizia ? " he said, bending
towards her ; but this time she gave him no answer,
only she shook her head, and taking up his hand
she kissed it once, impetuously, passionately, then
quickly passing him, she left the room.

She was crying before she reached the bottom of
the stairs ; but her tears did not alter one whit of
her resolution.

A nature like hers could not have rested satisfied
with anything short of the most perfect form of love —
so perhaps Vizia was right in her decision. But, again,
had she not allowed her morbid pride to stand between
her and her one chance of happiness ?

Perhaps Vizia was wrong.

CHAPTER Xxii.

AITZIG's SCORE.

I do believe.
Though I have found them not, that there may be
Words which are things, hopes which will not deceive ;

That goodness is no name, and happiness no dream."

—Byron.

As Kazimir closed the door, and stepped out into the
chill autumn air, he felt that he had likewise closed a
chapter in his life.

I think I could have made her happy ; but she
would not have it so," he said, with a sigh, which
he could not himself have explained. Was it for the
woman who loved him, or for the woman he had loved ?
or yet for another woman, who had never really lived,
but whom a strange fancy sometimes showed him lying
buried in the Tarajow churchyard ?

He had mounted his horse, and was spurring it down
the garden-road, as though anxious to put a barrier
between himself and the past. He was going to return

to his old self, — to what he had been before he had
dreamed the dream from which he had now awakened.

Vizia's words had impressed him more than he was
aware, — they had revived again his confidence in life ;
and yet he would not believe that they contained a
prophecy. He told himself that he would be a soldier
again, and nothing more, with no other interests buta
soldier's interests. His career should be his one
care ; his comrades should be his brothers ; his sword
should be his mistress ; his country should be his
world. He had spent much time in gathering roses ;
but they had fallen to pieces in his hands, and wounded
him with their thorns. Henceforward he would look
for laurels only.

It might have been these thoughts which made him
pass through the garden in heartless indifference to
the roses that were dying on either side of him. Like
children who have lost their nurse, they seemed to
stretch out their seared arms towards him imploringly.
The few late flowers that still lingered raised their
frost-bitten faces in mute supplication. Would no one
take pity on their agony ? The winter was coming ;
and was there no one to wrap them up in their warm
straw blankets, and save them from the frost's cruel
bite ?

But Kazimir passed them by unheeding. Nor did
he notice, either, how the grey clouds had lowered,

until they seemed to rest on the earth ; nor how the
drizzling rain had gradually turned to sleet, and from
sleet to a small driving snow ; neither did he take
heed of the wind which piped sharply past him, scattering
the russet leaves before it.

He rode on quicker, impatient to be gone : there
was nothing more for him to do here. Yes ; but there
was something more. Aitzig Majulik must be waiting
for him now ; he had said he would be back with him
in an hour, and the hour was past already. Not
that the promised secret had excited his curiosity : it
might be but one of the realities in the delirium of
the dying Jew. How was he to guess that the words
which Aitzig intended to speak would have torn away
the last shred of that veil which hid from his eyes the
whole extent of his brother's villany ?

Would it be better for Kazimir, or worse, if the
words remained unspoken, and if his trust in human
nature, which, although shaken, still lived, was allowed
to survive also in the future ?

He thought now that his last words to Lucyan had
been unnecessarily bitter; but when once he should
know the secret of that Propinacya lease, he might
well think that they had scarcely been bitter enough.

Straight into his face was the snow-drift flying, and
all around him the silent trees took voice. Like the
wild long notes of a dirge, the wind swept towards

him ; and with it came other sounds, as weird, and
scarcely more human.

Dimly at first, then more and more clearly, could
Kazimir distinguish a mass of dark figures flying towards
him through the snow-drift, — carried along, as
it seemed, by the breath of the blast alone ; for, fast
as they flew, the wind flew faster ; and seizing upon
their long black garments — the scarfs around their
necks, their floating beards, and even their snaky
curls — it blew all out straight before them, tearing
them all one way.

Running as wildly as though the Evil One himself
were at their heels, beating their breasts and uttering
unearthly howls, did they fly towards Kazimir. And
in their midst they bore an open bier ; and upon it,
scarcely covered, a human form was to be defined.
A withered hand, half buried in the silver-worked
folds of the Tales, for a moment met Kazimir's eye.

Like a picture in a nightmare — like the mere phantasmagoria
of a fevered brain — like a troop of spirits
born of the driving snow and the doleful wind — they
passed him.

And as they sped along, their shrieks and their
groans carried off before them, the burden of their
lament ran somewhat like this : —

Wai I Wai ! Wai !
Let us v:cep and rend our garments; for there is mourning

in the Jiousc of Israel. Let us heiuail our brother
who is passed away. He lived the life of the just, and
he has died the death of the righteous; and he shall
sprout again and bloom like the herb of the field, like
the flowers of the earth; for he has been gathered to his
forefathers, even to the great patriarchs Abraham, Isaac,
and Jacob. Let us weep and reid our garments, and
streiu ashes on our heads, for Aitzig Majulik, who has
gone before its !

Wail Wail Waif'

THE END.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

OP

Messrs BLACKWOOD & SONS'

PUBLICATIONS.

Edited by WILLIAM KNIGHT, LL.D.,

Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University of St Andrews.
In crown 8vo Volumes, with Portraits, price 3s. 6d.

Now Ready.
I. Descartes. By Professor Mahaffy, Dublin.
II, Butler. By Rev. W. L. Collins, Mea.
III. Berkeley. By Professor Fraser, Edinburgh.

The Volumes in preparation are —

IV. FiCHTE. By Prof. Adamson, Owen's

College, Manchester. immediately.
Hamilton. By Professor Veitch, Glasgow.
Hume. By the Editor.
Bacon. By Professor Nichols, Glasgow.
Hegel. By Professor Edward Caird,

Glasgow.

HoBBES. By Professor Groom Robertson,

London.
Kant. By William "Wallace, Merton

College, Oxford.
Spinoza. By Dr Martineau, Principal of

Manchester New College.
Vico. By Professor Flint, Edinburgh.

In course of Publication.

FOREIGN CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS.

Edited by Mrs OLIPHANT.

In Grown 8vo, 2s. 6d.
The Volumes punished are —

Dante. By the Editor.

Voltaire. By Major-general Sir E. B.

Hamley, K.C.M^G.
Pascal, By Principal Bullock.
Petrarch. By Henry Reeve, C. B.
Goethe. By A. Hay ward, Q.C.
MoLiERE. By the Editor and F. Carver,

Mea.

Montaigne. By Rev, W. Lucas Collins,

Mea.
Rabelais. By Walter Besant, Mea.
Caldron. By E. J. Hasell.
Saint Simon. By Clifton W, Collins, M. A,
Cervantes. By the Editor,
CoRNEiLLE AND Racine. By Hcury M.

Trollope.

In preparation —

Madame de S^vigne. By Miss Thackeray. — Schiller. By James Sine, Author
of 'Life of Lessing'— Rousseau. By Henry Graham. — La Fontaine. By
Rev. W. Lucas Collins, Mea.

Now Complete.

ANCIENT CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS.

Edited by the Rev. W. LUCAS COLLINS, Mea.

Complete in 28 Vols, crown 8vo, cloth, price 2s. 6d, each. And may also be had iH
14 Volumes, strongly and neatly bound, with calf or vellum back, £2,, los,
Saturday Review.— "It is difficult to estimate too highly the value of such a series
as this in giving ' English readers ' an insight, exact as far as it goes, into those
olden times which are so remote and yet to many of us so close."

OP

MESSRS BLACKWOOD & SONS'
P U BLICA T IONS.

ALISON. History of Europe. By Sir Archibald Alison, Bart.,

D.C.L.

1. From the Commencement of the French Revolution to the

Battle of Waterloo.

Library Edition, 14 vols., with Portraits. Demy 8vo, £10, los.
Another Edition, in 20 voLs. crown 8vo, £6.
People's Edition, 13 vols, crown 8vo, £2, his.

2. Continuation to the Accession of Louis Napoleon.

Library Edition, 8 vols. 8vo, £6, 7s. 6d.
People's Edition, 8 vols, crown 8vo, 34s.

3. Epitome of Alison's History of Europe. Twenty-eighth

Thousand, 7s. 6d.

4. Atlas to Alison's History of Europe. By A. Keith Johnston.

Library Edition, demy 4to, £^, 3s.
People's Edition, 31s. 6d.

Life of John Duke of Marlborough. With some Account

of his Contemporaries, and of the War of the Succession. Third Edition,
2 vols. 8vo. Portraits and Maps, sos.

Essays : Historical, Political, and Miscellaneous. 3 vols.

demy 8vo, 45s.

Lives of Lord Castlereagh and Sir Charles Stewart,

Second and Third Marquesses of Londonderry. From the Original Papers of
the Family. 3 vols. 8vo, £2, 2s.

Principles of the Criminal Law of Scotland. 8vo, i8s.

Practice of the Criminal Law of Scotland. 8vo, cloth

The Principles of Population, and their Connection with

Human Happiness. 2 vols. 8vo, sos.

ALISON. On the Management of the Poor in Scotland, and its
Effects on the Health of the Great Towns. By William Pulteney Alison,
M. D. Crown 8vo, 5s. 6d.

ADAMS. Great Campaigns. A Succinct Account of the Principal

Military Operations which have taken place in Europe from 1796 to 1870. By
Major C. Adams, Professor of Military History at the Staff College. Edited by
Captain C. Cooper King, Rem. Artillery, Instructor of Tactics, Royal Military
College. Svo, with Maps. i6s.

Air. Poetical Works of Thomas Aircl. Fifth Edition, with

Memoir of the Author by the Rev. Jardine Wallace, and Portrait.
Cro\\Ti 8vo, 7S. 6d.

The Old Bachelor in the Old Scottish Village. Cap. 8vo, 4s.

ALEXANDER. Moral Causation ; or, Notes on Mr Mill's Notes

to the Chapter on " Freedom" in the Third Edition of his 'Examination of Sir
William Hamilton's Philosophy.' By Patrick Proctor Alexander, Mea.,
Author of 'Mill and Carlyle,' &c. Second Edition, revised and extended.
Crown 8vo, 6s.

ALLARDYCE. The City of Sunshine. By Alexander Altars

Three vols, post 8vo, £i, 5s. 6d.

ANCIENT CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS. Edited hy

Rev. W. Lucas Collins, M.A. Complete in 28 vols., cloth, 2s. 6d. each ; or in
14 vols., tastefully bound with calf or vellum back, ^^3, los.
Contents of the Series.
Homer : The Iliad. By the Editor.
Homer : The Odyssey. By the Editor.
Herodotus. By George C. Swayue,

M.A.
Xenophon. By Sir Alexander Grant,

Bart, LL.D.
Euripides. By W. B. Donne.
Aristophanes. By the Editor.
Plato. By Clifton W. Collins, M.A.
LuciAN. By the Editor.
.ffiscHYLUS. By the Right Rev. the Bishop

of Colombo.
Sophocles. By Clifton W. Collins, M.A.
Hesiod AND Theognis. By the Rev. J.

Davies, M.A.
Greek Anthology. By Lord Leaves.
Virgil. By the Editor.
Horace. By Sir Theodore Martin, K.C.B.
Juvenal. By Edward Walford, M.A.

Plautus and Terence. By the Editor.

The Commentaries of C^sar. By Anthony
Trollope.

Tacitus. By W. B. Donne.

Cicero. By the Editor.

Pliny's Letters. By the Rev. Alfred
Church, M.A., and the Rev. W. J. Brod-
ribs, M.A.

Livy. By the Editor.

Ovid. By the Rev. A. Church, M.A.

Catullus, Tibullus, and Propertius.
By the Rev. Jas. Davies, M.A

Demosthenes. By the Rev. W. J. Brod-
ribs, M.A.

Aristotle. By Sir Alexander Grant,
Bart., LL.D.

Thucydides. By the Editor.

Lucretius. By W. H. Matlock, M.A.

Pindar. By the Rev. F. D. Morice, M. A.

Awkward. The Transvaal of To - day : War, Witchcraft,

Sports, and Spoils in South Africa. By Alfred Awkward, Commandant,
Transvaal Republic ; Captain (late) Lydenberg Volunteer Corps. Second
Edition. Crown 8vo, with a Map, 6s.

AYTOUN. Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers, and other Poems. By

W. Edmonstone Aytoun, D.C.L., Professor of Rhetoric and Belles-lettres
in the University of Edinburgh. Twenty-seventh Edition. Cap. 8vo, 7s. 6d.

An Illustrated Edition of the Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers.

From designs by Sir Noel Paton. Small 4to, 21s. , in gilt cloth.

Bothwell : a Poem. Third Edition. Cap., 7s. 6d.

Firmilian ; or, The Student of Badajoz. A Spasmodic

Tragedy. Cap., 5s.

Poems and Ballads of Goethe. Translated hy Professor

Aytoun and Sir Theodore Martin, K.C.B. Third Edition. Cap., 6s.

Bon Gautier's Book of Ballads. By the Same. Thirteenth

Edition. With Illustrations by Doyle, Leech, and Crowquill. Post 8vo, gilt
edges, 8s. 6d.

The Ballads of Scotland. Edited by Professor Aytoun.

Fourth Edition. 2 vols. cap. 8vo, 12s.

Memoir of William E. Aytoun, D.C.L. By Sir Theodore

Martin, K.C.B. With Portrait. Post 8vo, 12s.

BAGOT. The Art of Poetry of Horace. Free and Explanatory

Translations in Prose and Verse. By the Very Rev. Daniel Bagot, D. D.
Third Edition, Revised, printed on papier verge, square 8vo, 5s.

BAIRD LECTURES. The Mysteries of Christianity. By T. J.

Crawford, D.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Divinity in the University of Edinburgh,
&c. Being the Baird Lecture for 1874. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Endowed Territorial Work : Its Supreme Importance to

the Church and Country By William Smith, D.D., Minister of North Leith.
Being the Baird Lecture for 1875. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Theism. By Robert Flint, D.D., LL.D,, Professor of

Divinity in the University of Edinburgh. Being the Baird Lecture for 1876.

Third Edition. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

Anti-Theistic Theories. By the Same. Being the Baird

Lecture for 1877. Second Edition. Crown Svo, los. 6d.

BATTLE OF DORKING. Reminiscences of a Volunteer. From

'Blackwood's Magazine.' Second Hundredth Thousand. 6d.
By the Same Author.
The Dilemma. Cheap Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.
A True Reformer. 3 vols, crown Svo, £1, 5s. 6d.
BESANT. Readings from Rabelais. By Walter Besant, M.A.

In one volume, post Svo. . [In the press.

Black. Lays and Legends of Ancient Greece. By John

Stuart Black, Professor of Greek in the University of Edinburgh. Second
Edition. Cap. Svo. 5s.

BLACKWOOD'S MAGAZINE, from Commencement in 1817 to

June 1880. Nos. t to 776, forming 127 Volumes.

Index to Blackwood's Magazine. Vols, i to 50. Svo, stales

from Blackwood. Forming Twelve Volumes of

Interesting and Amusing Railway Reading. Price One Shilling each in Paper
Cover. Sold separately at all Railway Bookstalls.
They may also be had bound in cloth, 18s., and in half calf, richly gilt, sos.
or 12 volumes in 6, half Roxburghee, 21s., and half red morocco, stales

from Blackwood. New Series. Complete in Twenty-four
Shilling Parts. Handsomely bound in 12 vols., cloth, sos. In leather
back, Roxbui-ghe style, 37s. 6d. In half calf, gilt, 52s. 6d. In half morocco,

553-

Standard Novels. Uniform in size and legibly Printed.

Each Novel complete in one volume.

Florin Series, Illustrated Boards.
Tom Cringe's Log. By Michael Scott. Pen Owen. By Dean Hook.
The Cruise OF THE Midge. By the Same. Adam Blair. By J. G. Lockhart.
Cyril Thornton. By Captain Hamilton. Lady Lee's Widowhood. By General

Annals OF THE Parish. By John Gait.
The Provost, &c. By John Gait.
Sir Andrew Wylie. By John Gait.
The Entail. By John Gait.
Miss Molly. By Beatrice May Butt.
Reginald Dalton. By J. G. Lockhart.

E. B. Harley.
Salem Chapel. By Mrs Oliphant.
The Perpetual Curate. By Mrs Oliphant.

Miss Marjoribanks. By Mrs Oliphant.
John : A Love Story. By Mrs Oliphant.

Or in Cloth Boards, 2s. 6d.

Shilling Series, Illustrated Cover.

The Rector, and The Doctor's Family. | Sir Frizzle Pumpkin, Nights at Mess,

By Mrs Oliphant. ! &c.

These Life of Manse Watch. By D. M. I The Subaltern.

Mohr. I Life in the Far West. By G. F. Buxton.

Peninsular Scenes and Sketches. By ' Alterius : A Roman Story. By J. G.
F. Hardman. Lockhart.

Or in Cloth Boards, is. 6d.

BLACKMORE. The Maid of Seer. By R. D. Blackmore, Author

of ' Lima Done,' &c. Seventh Edition. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

BOSCOBEL TRACTS. Relating to the Escape of Charles the

Second after the Battle of Worcester, and his subsequent Adventures. Edited
by J. Hughes, Esq., A.M. A New Edition, with additional Notes and Illustrations,
including Communications from the Rev. R. H. Bashan, Author of
the ' Ingoldsby Legends.' 8vo, with Engravings, i6s.

Brandenburg. A Narrative of the Ashanti War. Prepared

from the official documents, by intermission of Major-General Sir Garnet Wolsey,
K.C.B., K.C.M.G. By Major H. Brandenburg, R.A., Assistant Military
Secretary to Sir Garnet Wolsey. With Maps from the latest Surveys made by
the Staff of the Expedition. 2 vols. 8vo, 25s.

BROOKE, Life of Sir James, Rajah of Sarawak. From his Personal

Papers and Correspondence. By Spenser St John, H.M.'s Minister-Resident
and Consul-general Peruvian Republic ; formerly Secretary to the Rajah.
With Portrait and a Map. Post 8vo, 12s. 6d.

BROUGHAM. Memoirs of the Life and Times of Henry Lord

Brougham. Written by Himself. 3 vols. 8vo, £7., 8s. The Volumes are sold
separately, price i6s. each.

BROWN. The Forester : A Practical Treatise on the Planting,

Rearing, and General Management of Forest-trees. By James Brown, Wood-surveyor
and Nurseryman. Fifth Edition, revised and enlarged. Royal
8vo, with Engravings. [/» flie press.

BROWN. The Ethics of George Eliot's Works. By John Crosbie

Brown. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

BROWN. A Manual of Botany, Anatomical and Physiological.
For the Use of Students. By Robert Brown, M.A., Ph.D., F.L.S , F.R.G.S.
Crown 8vo, with numerous Illustrations, 12s. 6d,

BROWN. Book of the Landed Estate. Containing Directions for

the Management and Development of the Resources of Landed Property. By
Robert E. Brown, Factor and Estate Agent. Large 8vo, with Illustrations, 21s.

BUCHAN. Introductory Text-book of Meteorology. By Alexander
Buchan, M.A., F.R.S.E,, Secretary of the Scottish Meteorological
Society, &c. Crown 8vo, with 8 Coloured Charts and other Engravings,
pp. 218. 4s. 6d.

Bridge. Domestic Floriculture, Window Gardening, and

Floral Decorations. Being practical directions for the Propagation, Culture,
and Arrangement of Plants and Flowers as Domestic Ornaments. By F. W.
Bridge. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, with numerous Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Cultivated Plants : Their Propagation and Improvement.

Including Natural and Artificial Hybridisation, Raising from Seed, Cuttings,

and Layers, Grafting and Budding, as applied to the Families and Genera in
Cultivation. Crown 8vo, with numerous Illustrations, 12s. 6d.

BURN. Handbook of the Mechanical Arts Concerned in the Construction
and Arrangement of Dwelling-houses and other Buildings ; with
Practical Hints on Road-making and the Enclosing of Land. By Robert Scott
Burn, Engineer. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. 6d.

BUTE. The Roman Breviary : Reformed by Order of the Holy

(Ecumenical Council of Trent ; Published by Order of Pope St Pius V. ; and
Revised by Clement VIII. and Urban VIII.; together with the Offices since
granted. Translated out of Latin into English by John, Marquess of Bute,
K.T. In 2 vols, crown 8vo, cloth boards, edges uncut. £1, 2s.

BUTT. Miss Molly. By Beatrice May Butt. Cheap Edition, 2s.

Felicia. By the Author of 'Miss Molly.' Fourth Edition.
Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.
BURTON. The History of Scotland : From Agricola's Invasion to

the Extinction of the last Jacobite Insurrection. By John Hill Burton.
D.C.L., Historiographer Royal for Scotland. New and Enlarged Edition,
8 vols., and Index. Crown 8vo, £2» burton.

History of the British Empire during the Reign of

Queen Anne. In 3 vols. 8vo. 36s.

The Cairngorm Mountains. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

CAIRD. Sermons. By John Caird, D.D., Principal of the University
of Glasgow. Fourteenth Thousand. Cap. 8vo, 5s.

Religion in Common Life. A Sermon preached in Craigie

Church, October 14, 1855, before Her Majesty the Queen and Prince Albert.
Published by Her Majesty's Command. Price One Shilling. Cheap Edition,
3d.

CAMPBELL, Life of Colin, Lord Clyde. See General Shadwell,

at page 20.

CARLYLE. Autobiography of the Rev. Dr Alexander Carlyle,

Minister of Interest. Containing Memorials of the Men and Events of his
Time. Edited by John Hill Burton. Svo. Third Edition, with Portrait, 14s.

Calvin. A Treasury of the English and German Languages.

Compiled from the best Authors and Lexicographers in both Languages.
Adapted to the Use of Schools, Students, Travellers, and Men of Business;
and forming a Companion to all German-English Dictionaries. By Joseph
Calvin, LL.D. & Ph.D., of the University of Gottingen, &c. Crown Svo,
7s. 6d.

Charters. Canonicity ; or, Early Testimonies to the Existence

and Use of the Books of the New Testament. Based on Kirchhoffer's ' .
' Edited by A. H. Charters, D.D., Professor of Biblical
Criticism in the University of Edinburgh. Svo, 18s.

Life of the Rev. James Robertson, D.D., F.R.S.E., Professor
of Divinity and Ecclesiastical History in the University of Edinburgh.
By Professor Charters. With Portrait. Svo, los. 6d.

CHETWYND. Life in a German Village. By the Hon. Mrs

Henry Wayland Chetwynd, Author of ' Neighbours and Friends,' 'Janie,'
'Mille. d'Estanville,' &c. &c. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

CHEVELEY NOVELS, THE.

I. A Modern Minister. 2 vols, bound in cloth, with Twenty-six Illustrations.

II. Saul Weir. 2 vols, bound in cloth. With Twelve Illustrations by F. Barnard.
i6s.

Chiron. 'Twixt Greek and Turk. By M. Valentine Chiron.

In one volume, post Svo. With Frontispiece and Map.

CHURCH SERVICE SOCIETY. A Book of Common Order :

Being Forms of Worship issued by the Church Service Society. Fourth Edition,
5s.

COLQUHOUN. The Moor and the Loch. Containing Minute

Instructions in all Highland Sports, with Wanderings over Ci'ag and Corrie,
Flood and Fell. By John Colquhoun. Fifth Edition, greatly enlarged.
With Illustrations. 2 vols, post Svo, 26s.

COTTERILL. The Genesis of the Church. By the Right. Rev.

Henry Cotterill, D.D., Bishop of Edinburgh. Demy Svo, i6s.

Cranston. The Elegies of Albinus Tibullus. Translated into

English Verse, with Life of the Poet, and Illustrative Notes. By James Cranston,
LL.D., Author of a Translation of ' Catullus.' Crown Svo, 6s. 6d.

The Elegies of Sixtus Propertius. Translated into English

Verse, with Life of the Poet, and Illustrative Notes. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

CRAWFORD. The Doctrine of Holy Scripture respecting the
Atonement. By the late Thomas J. Crawford, D.D., Professor of Divinity in
the University of Edinburgh. Third Edition. Svo, 12s.

CRAWFORD. The Fatherhood of God, Considered in its General

and Special Aspects, and particularly in relation to the Atonement, with a
Review of Recent Speculations on the Subject. Third Edition, Revised and
Enlarged. 8vo, gs.

The Preaching of the Cross, and other Sermons. 8vo,

7S. 6d.

The Mysteries of Christianity ; being the Baird Lecture for

1874. Crown Bvo, 7s. 6d.

CROSSE. Round about the Carpathians. By Andrew F. Crosse,

F.C.S. 8vo, with Map of the Author's route, price 12s. 6d.

DESCARTES. The Method, Meditations, and Principles of philosophy

of Descartes. Translated from the Original French and Latin. With a
New Introductory Essay, Historical and Critical, on the Cartesian Philosophy.
By John Veitch, LL.E*., Professor of Logic and Rhetoric in the University of
Glasgow. A New Edition, being the Eighth. Price 6s. 6d.

DICKSON. Japan ; being a Sketch of the History, Government,

and Officers of the Empire. By Walter Dickson. 8vo, 15s.

DU CANE. The Odyssey of Homer, Books I-xii. Translated into

English Verse. By Sir Charles Du Cane, K.C.M.G. Bvo, ios. 6d.

EAGLES. Essays. By the Rev. John Eagles, A.M. Oxon. Originally
published in 'Blackwood's Magazine.' Post 8vo, los. 6d.

The Sketcher. Originally published in ' Blackwood's

Magazine.' Post 8vo, los. 6d.

ELIOT. Impressions of Theophrastus Such. Bv George Eliot.

Fourth Edition. Post Bvo, los. 6d. New and cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 5s.

Adam Bede. Illustrated Edition. 3s. 6d., cloth.

The Mill on the Floss. Illustrated Edition. 3s. 6d., cloth.

Scenes of Clerical Life. Illustrated Edition. 3s., cloth.

■ Silas Marner : The Weaver of Ravelin. Illustrated Edition.
2S. 6d., cloth.

Felix Holt, the Radical. Illustrated Edition. 3s. 6d., cloth.

Romola. With Vignette. 3s. 6d., cloth.

Middlemarch. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

• Daniel Deronda. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

■ Works of George Eliot (Cabinet Edition). Complete and

Uniform Edition, handsomely printed in a new type, 20 volumes, crown Svo,
price £$. The Volumes are also sold separately, price 5s. each, viz. :—

Romola. 2 vols. — Silas Marner, The Lifted Veil, Brother Jacob, i vol. —
Adam Bede. 2 vols.— Scenes of Clerical Life. 2 vols. — The Mill on
the Floss. 2 vols. — Felix Holt. 2 vols. — Middlemarch. 3 vols. —
Daniel Deronda. 3 vols. — The Spanish Gypsy, i vol.— Jubal, and
other Poems, Old and New. i vol.— Theophrastus Such, i vol.

- The Spanish Gypsy. Seventh Edition. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.,

cloth.

- The Legend of Jubal, and other Poems. New Edition.

Cap. Svo, 5s., cloth.

- Wise, Witty, and Tender Sayings, in Prose and Verse.

Selected from the Works of George Eliot'. Fifth Edition. Cap. Svo, 6s.

- The George Eliot Birthday Book. Printed on fine paper,
with red border, and handsomely bound in cloth, gilt. Cap. Svo, cloth, 3s. 6d.
And in French morocco or Russia, 5s.

ESSAYS ON SOCIAL SUBJECTS. Originally published in

the 'Saturday Review.' A New Edition. First and Second Series. 2 vols.
crown 8vo, 6s. each.

EWALD. The Crown and its Advisers ; or, Queen, Ministers,
Lords, and Commons. By Alexander Charles Ewald, F.S.A. Crown 8vo,

Ferries. Philosophical Works of the late James F. Farrier,

B. A. Oxon., Professor of Moral Philosophy and Political Economy, St Andrews.
New Edition. Edited by Sir Alex. Grant, Bart., D.C.L., and Professor
LusHiNGTON. 3 vols. crowTi 8vo, 34S. 6d.

Institutes of Metaphysic. Third Edition. los. 6d.

Lectures on the Early Greek Philosophy. Third Edition.

los. 6d.

Philosophical Remains, including the Lectures on Early

Greek Philosophy. 2 vols., 24s.

Farrier. George Eliot and Judaism. An Attempt to appreciate

Daniel Deronda.' By Professor David Kaufmann, of the Jewish Theological
Seminary, Buda-pesth. Translated from the German by J. W. Farrier.
Second Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

F INLAY. History of Greece under Foreign Domination. By

the late George Finlay, LL.D., Athens. 6 vols. Svo — viz. :
Greece under the Romans. B.C. 146 to a.d. 717. A Historical

View of the Condition of the Greek Nation from its Conquest by the
Romans until the Extinction of the Roman Power in the East. Second
Edition, i6s.

History of the Byzantine Empire, a.d. 716 to 1204 ; and of

the Greek Empire of Nicsea and Constantinople, a.d. 1204 to 1453. 2 vols.,
£1, 7S. 6d.

Greece under Ottoman and Venetian Domination, a.d. 1453

to 1821. los. 6d.

History of the Greek Revolution of 1830. 2 vols. Svo, ^i, 4s.

FLINT. The Philosophy of History in Europe. Vol. I., containing
the History of that Philosophy in France and Germany. By Robert Flint,
D.D., LL.D., Professor of Divinity, University of Edinburgh. Svo, 15s.

Theism. Being the Baird Lecture for 1876. Third Edition.

Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

Anti-Theistic Theories. Being the Baird Lecture for 1877.

Second Edition. Crown Svo, los. 6d.

FORBES. The Campaign of Garibaldi in the Two Similes : A Personal
Narrative. By Charles Stuart Forbes, Commander, Ren. Post Svo,
with Portraits, 12s.

FOREIGN CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS. Edited

by Mrs Oliphant. Price 2s. 6d.

Now published-—I. Dante. By the Editor.— II. Voltaire. By Major-general
Sir E. B. Hamley.— III. Pascal By Principal Bullock.— IV.
Petrarch. By Henry Reeve, C.B. — V. Goethe. By A. Hay ward,
Q.C.— VI. MoLiERE. By the Editor and F. Carver, M.A.— VII. Montaigne.
By Rev. W. L. Collins, M.A.— VIII. Rabelais. By Walter
Besant, M.A.— IX. Caldron. Bv E. J. Hasell.— X. Saint Simon.
By Clifton W. Collins, M.A.— XI. Cervantes. By the Editor.— XII.
CoRNEiLLE AND Racine. By Henry M. Trollope.
In preparation: — Madame de Seine. By Miss Thackeray. — Schiller.
By James Sine, Author of ' Life of Lessing'— Rousseau. By Henry
abraham.— La Fontaine. By Rev. W. L. Collins, M.A.

FRASER. Handy Book of Ornamental Conifers, and of Rhododendrons
and other American Flowering Shrubs, suitable for the Climate and Soils
of Britain. With descriptions of the best kinds, and containing Useful Hints
for their successful Cultivation. By Hugh Fraser, Fellow of the Botanical
Society of Edinburgh. Crown 8vo, 6s.

GALT. Annals of the Parish. By John Galt. Cap. 8vo, 2S.

The Provost. Cap. 8vo, 2s.

Sir Andrew Wylie. Cap. 8vo, 2S.

The Entail ; or, The Laird of Grippy. Cap. Bvo, 2S.

GARDENER, THE : A Magazine of Horticulture and Floriculture.

Edited by David Thomson, Author of ' The Handy Book of the Flower-garden,
' &c. ; Assisted by a Staff of the best practical Writers. Published Monthly,
6d

GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE CHURCH OF SCOTLAND.

Family Prayers. Authorised by the General Assembly of

the Church of Scotland. A New Edition, crown 8vo, in large type, 4s. 6d.
Another Edition, crown 8vo, 2s.

Prayers for Social and Family Worship. For the Use of

Soldiers, Sailors, Colonists, and Sojourners in India, and other Persons, at
home and abroad, who are deprived of the ordinary services of a Christian
Ministry. Cheap Edition, is. 6d.

■ The Scottish Hymnal. Hymns for Public Worship. Published
for Use in Churches by Authority of the General Assembly. Various
sizes — viz. : i. Large type, for pulpit use, cloth, 3s. 6d. 2. Longprimer type,
cloth, red edges, is. 6d. ; French morocco, 2s. 6d. ; calf, 6s. 3. Bourgeois
type, cloth, red edges, is. ; French morocco, 2s. 4. Minion type, limp cloth,
6d. ; French morocco, is. 6d. 5. School Edition, in paper cover, 2d. 6. Children's
Hymnal, paper cover, id. No. 2, bound with the Psalms and Paraphrases,
cloth, 3s. ; French morocco, 4s. 6d. ; calf, 7s. 6d. No. 3, bound with
the Psalms and Paraphrases, cloth, 2s. ; French morocco, 3s.

The Scottish Hymnal, with Music. Selected by the Committees
on Hymns and on Psalmody. The harmonies arranged by W. H. Monk.
Cloth, IS. 6d. ; French morocco, 3s. 6d. The same in the Tonic Sol-fa Notation,
IS. 6d. and 3s. 6d.

GERARD. Reata: What's in a Name? By E. D. Gerard.

New Edition. In one volume, crown Bvo.

GLEIG. The Subaltern. By G. R. GlEIG, M.A., late Chaplain-general
of her Majesty's Forces. Originally published in ' Blackwood's Magazine.'
Library Edition. Revised and Corrected, with a New Preface. Crown
Bvo, 7S. 6d.

GOETHE'S FAUST. Translated into English Verse by Sir Theodore
Martin, K.C.B. Second Edition, post Bvo, 6s. Cheap Edition, cap.,
3s. 6d.

Poems and Ballads of Goethe. Translated by Professor

Aytoun and Sir Theodore Martin, K.C.B. Third Edition, cap. Bvo, 6s.

GORDON GUMMING. At Home in Fiji. By C. F. Gordon

Gumming, Author of 'From the Hebrides to the Himalayas.' 2 vols. Bvo.
With Illustrations and Map. 25s.

GRAHAM. Annals and Correspondence of the Viscount and First

and Second Earls of Stair. By John Murray Graham. 2 vols, demy Bvo,
with Portraits and other Illustrations, ^i, Bs.

Memoir of Lord Lynedoch. Second Edition, crown Bvo, 5s.

GRANT. Bush-Life in Queensland. By A. C. Grant. In 2

vols, post Bvo.

GRANT. Incidents in the Sepoy War of 1857-58. Compiled from

the Private Journals of the late General Sir Hope Grant, G.C.B. ; together
with some Explanatory Chapters by Captain Henry Knolls, R.A. Crown
8vo, with Map and Plans, 12s.

GRANT. Memorials of the Castle of Edinburgh. By James

Grant. A New Edition. Crown 8vo, with 12 Engravings, 2s.

Hamilton. Wenderholme : A Story of Lancashire and Yorkshire
Life. By Philip Gilbert Hamilton," Author of 'A Painter's Camp.' A
New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

HAMILTON. Lectures on Metaphysics. By Sir William Hamilton,
Bart., Professor of Logic and Metaphysics in 'the University of Edinburgh.
Edited by the Rev. H. L. Manse, Bed., LL.D., Dean of St Paul's ; and John
Veitch, M.A., Professor of Logic and Rhetoric, Glasgow. Sixth Edition. 2
vols. 8vo, 24S.

Lectures on Logic. Edited by the Same. Third Edition.

2 vols. 24S.

Discussions on Philosophy and Literature, Education and

University Reform. Third Edition, 8vo. 21S.

Memoir of Sir William Hamilton, Bart., Professor of Logic

and Metaphysics in the University of Edinburgh. By Professor Veitch of the
University of Glasgow. 8vo, with Portrait, i8s.

HAMILTON. Annals of the Peninsular Campaigns. By Captain

Thomas Hamilton. Edited by F. Hardman. Svo, i6s. Atlas of Maps to
illustrate the Campaigns, 12s.

Hamlet. The Operations of War Explained and Illustrated. By
Sir Edward Bruce Hamley, C.B. Fourth Edition, revised throughout. 4to,
with numerous Illustrations, sos.

Thomas Carlyle : An Essay. Second Edition. Crown

8vo. 2S. 66

The Story of the Campaign of Sebastopol. Written in the

Camp. With illustrations drawn in Camp by the Author. Svo, 21s.

On Outposts. Second Edition. Svo, 2S.

Wellington's Career ; A Military and Political Summary.

Crown Svo, as.

Lady Lee's Widowhood. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Our Poor Relations. A Philozoic Essay. With Illustrations,

chiefly by Ernest Grist. Crown Svo, cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
Hamlet. Guilty, or Not Guilty ? A Tale. By Major-general

W. G. Hamlets late of the Royal Engineers. New Edition. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

The House of Lys : One Book of its History. A Tale.

Second Edition. 2 vols, crown Svo. 17s.

HANDY HORSE-BOOK ; or, Practical Instructions in Riding,

Driving, and the General Care and Management of Horses. By 'Magenta.'
Ninth Edition, with 6 Engravings, 4s. 6d.
By the Same.

Our Domesticated Dogs : their Treatment in reference to Food,

Diseases, Habits, Punishment, Accomplishments. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

Harbor. A Glossary of Navigation. Containing the Definitions
and Propositions of the Science, Explanation of Terms, and Description of
Instruments. By the Rev. J. B. Harbor, M.A., Assistant Director of Education,
Admiralty. Crown Svo. Illustrated with Diagrams, 6s.

Definitions and Diagrams in Astronomy and Navigation.

IS.

Short Sermons for Hospitals and Sick Seamen. Cap. Svo,

cloth, 4s. 6d.

Harden. Scenes and Adventures in Central America. Edited

by Frederick Hardman. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Hawley. The Shakespeare Tapestry. Woven in Verse. By C.

Hawley. Cap. 8vo. 6s.

HAY. The Works of the Right Rev. Dr George Hay, Bishop of

Edinburgh. Edited under the Supervision of the Right Rev. Bishop Strain.
With Memoir and Portrait of the Author. 5 vols, crown 8vo, bound in extra
cloth, £1, IS. Or, sold separately— viz. :

The Sincere Christian Instructed in the Earth of Christ

from the Written Word. 2 vols., 8s.

The Devout Christian Instructed in the Law of Christ

from the Written Word. 2 vols., 8s.

The Pious Christian Instructed in the Nature and Practice

of the Principal Exercises of Piety, i vol., 43.

HEMANS. The Poetical Works of Mrs Hemans. Copyright Editions.


One Volume, roj^al Svo, 5s.

The Same, with Illustrations engraved on Steel, bound In cloth, gilt edges,

7S. 6d.
Six Volumes, cap., 12s. 6d.

Seven Volumes, cap., with Memoir by her Sister. 35s.
Select Poems of Mrs Hemans. Cap., cloth, gilt edges, 3s.

Memoir of Mrs Hemans. By her Sister. With a Portrait,
cap. Svo, 5 s.

HOLE. A Book about Roses : How to Grow and Show Them. By

the Rev. Canon Hole. With coloured Frontispiece by the Hon. Mrs Francklin.
Seventh Edition, revised. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

HOME PRAYERS. By Ministers of the Church of Scotland and

Members of the Church Service Society. Cap. Svo, price 3s.

HOMER. The Odyssey. Translated into English Verse in the

Spenserian Stanza. By Philip Stanhope Worsley. Third Edition, 2 vols.,
cap., Is.

The Iliad. Translated by P. S. Worsley and Professor

Dodington. 2 vols. CrOWn Svo, 2 IS.

Horace. Mary Queen of Scots and Her Accusers. Containing a

Variety of Documents never before published. By John Hosack, .
A New and Enlarged Edition, with a Photograph from the Bust on
the Tomb in Westminster Abbey. 2 vols. Svo, £1, is.

INDEX Geographical : Being a List, alphabetically arranged,

of the Principal Places on the Globe, with the Countries and Subdivisions of
the Countries in which they are situated, and their Latitudes and Longitudes.
Applicable to all Modern Atlases and Maps. Imperial Svo, pp. 676, 2xs.

JEAN JAMBON. Our Trip to Sunderland ; or, Grand Excursion

to Blundertown and Back. By Jean Jameson. With Sixty Illustrations
designed by Charles Doyle, engraved by Daniel. Fourth Thousand.
Handsomely bound in cloth, gilt edges, 6s. 6d. Cheap Edition, cloth, 3s. 6d.
In boards, 2s. 6d.

JOHNSON. The Scots Musical Museum. Consisting of upwards

of Six Hundred Songs, with proper Basses for the Pianoforte. Originally published
by James Johnson ; and now accompanied with Copious Notes and
Illustrations of the Lyric Poetry and Music of Scotland, by the late William
Stenhouse; with additional Notes and Illustrations, by David Laing and
C. K. Sharpe. 4 vols. Svo, Roxburghee binding, £2, 12s. 6d.

JOHNSTON. The Chemistry of Common Life. By Professor

J. F. W. Johnston. New Edition, Revised, and brought down to date. By
Arthur Herbert Church, M.A. Oxon. ; Author of 'Food: its Sources,
Constituents, and Uses ; ' * The Laboratory Guide for Agricultural Students ; '
'Plain Words about Water,' &c. Illustrated with Maps and 102 Engravings
on Wood. Complete in One Volume, crown 8vo, pp. 618, 7s. 6d.

Professor Johnston's Elements of Agricultural Chemistry

and Geology. Twelfth Edition, Revised, and brought down to date. 3y
Charles A. Cameron, M.D., F.R.C.S.I., &c. Cap. 8vo, 6s. 6d.

Catechism of Agricultural Chemistry and Geology. An

entirely New Edition, revised and enlarged, by Charles A. Cameron, M.D.,
F.R.C.S. I. , &c. Seventy-eighth Thousand, with numerous Illustrations, is.

Notes on North America : Agricultural, Economical, and

Social. 2 vols, post 8vo, 21s.

KING. The Metamorphoses of Ovid. Translated in English Blank
Verse. By Henry King, M.A., Fellow of Waltham College, Oxford, and of
the Inner Temple, Barrister-at-law. Crown Svo, los. 6d.

KINGLAKE. History of the Invasion of the Crimea. By A. W.

Kinglake. Cabinet Edition. Six Volumes, crown 8vo, at 6s. each. The Volumes
respectively contain : —

I. The Origin of the War between the Czar and the Sultan.
II. Russia Met and Invaded. With 4 Maps and Plans.

III. The Battle of the Alma. With 14 Maps and Plans.

IV. Sebastopol at Bay. With 10 Maps and Plans.

V. The Battle of Balaclava. With 10 Maps and Plans.
VI. The Battle of Inkerman. With n Maps and Plans.

History of the Invasion of the Crimea. Vol. VI. Winter

Troubles. Demy 8vo, with a Map, i6s.

Eothen. A New Edition, uniform with the Cabinet Edition

of the ' History of the Crimean War,' price 6s.

Knolls. The Elements of Field-Artillery. Designed for the

Use of Infantry and Cavalry Officers. By Henry Knolls, Captain Royal
Artillery; Author of 'From Sedan to Saarbrilck,' Editor of ' Incidents in the
Sepoy War,' &c. With Engravings. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Bateman. What I saw in Kaffir-land. By Sir Stephen

Bateman (Mazhar Pacha), Post 8vo, 8s. 6d.

Auvergne. The Rural Economy of England, Scotland, and Ireland.
By Leone de Auvergne. Translated from the French. With Notes
by a Scottish Farmer. Svo, 12s.

LEE. Lectures on the History of the Church of Scotland, from the

Reformation to the Revolution Settlement. By the late Very Rev. John Lee,
D.D., LL.D., Principal of the University of Edinburgh. With Notes and Appendices
from the Author's Papers. Edited by the Rev. William Lee, D.D.
2 vols. Svo, 21S.

LEE-HAMILTON. Poems and Transcripts. By Eugene Lee-hamilton.

Crown Svo, 6s.

LEWES. The Physiology of Common Life. By George H.

Lewes, Author of ' Sea-side Studies,' &c. Illustrated with numerous Engravings.
2 vols., Is.

LOCKHART. Doubles and Quits. By Laurence W. M. Lockhart.
With Twelve Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Fair to See : a Novel. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo, 6s.

Mine is Thine : a Novel. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo, 68.

LORIMER. The Institutes of Law : A Treatise of the Principles

of Jurisprudence as determined by Nature. By James Lorimer, Regius
Professor of Public Law and of the Law of Nature and Nations in the University
of Edinburgh. New Edition, revised throughout, and much enlarged.
8vo, i8s.

LYON. History of the Rise and Progress of Freemasonry in Scotland.
By David Murray Lyon, Secretary to the Grand Lodge of Scotland.
In small quarto. Illustrated with numerous Portraits of Eminent Members of
the Craft, and Facsimiles of Ancient Charters and other Curious Documents.
£i, lis. 6d.

M'COMBIE. Cattle and Cattle-Breeders. By William M'Combie,

Tillyfour. A New and Cheaper Edition, 2S. 6d., cloth.

MACRAE. A Handbook of Deer - Stalking. By Alexander

Macrae, late Forester to Lord Henry Bentinck. With Introduction by
Horatio Ross, Esq. Cap. 8vo, with two Photographs from Life. 3s. 6d.

M'CRIE. Works of the Rev. Thomas M'Crie, D.D. Uniform Edition.

Four vols, crown 8vo, 24s.
Life of John Knox. Containing Illustrations of the History
of the Reformation in Scotland. Crown 8vo, 6s. Another Edition, 3s. 6d.

Life of Andrew Melville. Containing Illustrations of the

Ecclesiastical and Literary History of Scotland in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth
Centuries. Crown 8vo, 6s.

History of the Progress and Suppression of the Reformation
in Italy in the Sixteenth Century. Crown Svo, 4s.

History of the Progress and Suppression of the Reformation
in Spain in the Sixteenth Century. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Sermons, and Review of the ' Tales of My Landlord.' Crown

Svo, 6s.

Lectures on the Book of Esther. Cap. Svo, 5s.

Macintosh. The Book of the Garden. By Charles Macintosh,

formerly Curator of the Royal Gardens of his Majesty the King of the Belgians,
and lately of those of his Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, Keg., at Dalkeith Palace.
Two large vols, royal 8vo, embellished with 1350 Engravings. £4, 7s. 6d.

Vol. i: On the Formation of Gardens and Construction of Garden Edifices. 776
pages, and 1073 Engravings, £2, los.

Vol. II. Practical Gardening. 868 pages, and 279 Engravings, ^i, 17s. 6d.

MACKAY. A Manual of Modern Geography ; Mathematical, Physical,
and Political. By the Rev. Alexander Mackay, LL.D., F.R.G.S. New
and Greatly Improved Edition. Crown 8vo, pp. 688. 7s. 6d.

Elements of Modern Geography. 46th Thousand, revised

to the present time. Crown 8vo, pp. 300, 3s.

The Intermediate Geography. Intended as an Intermediate
Book between the Author's ' Outlines of Geography,' and ' Elements of
Geography.' Sixth Edition, crown 8vo, pp. 224, 2s.

Outlines of Modern Geography. 131st Thousand, revised
to the Present Time. imo, pp. 112, is.

First Steps in Geography. 69th Thousand. imo, pp.

56. Sewed, 4d. ; cloth, 6d.

Elements of Physiography and Physical Geography.

With Express Reference to the Instructions recently issued by the Science and
Art Department. 15th Thousand. Crown Svo, is. 6d.

MACKAY. Facts and Dates ; or, the Leading Events in Sacred and

Profane History, and the Principal Facts in the various Physical Sciences.
The Memory being aided throughout by a Simple and Natural Method. For
Schools and Private Reference. New Edition, thoroughly Revised, Crown
8vo, 3S. 6d.

Mckenzie. Studies in Woman Law. With Comparative Views

of the Laws of France, England, and Scotland. By Lord Mckenzie, one of
the Judges of the Court of Session in Scotland. Fifth Edition, Edited by
John Kirkpatrick, Esq., M.A. Cantab.; Dr Fur. Heidelb. ; LL.B., Eden. ;
Advocate. 8vo. 12s.

MANNERS. Notes of an Irish Tour in 1846. By Lord John

Manners, M.P., G.C.B. New Edition, crown 8vo. 2s. 6d.

MARMORNE. The Story is told by Adolphus Serve, the

youngest of three Brothers. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

MARSHALL. French Home Life. By Frederic Marshall,

Contents: Servants. — Children. — Furniture. — Food.— Manners. — Language. — Dress.
—Marriage. Second Edition. 5s.

Marshal. History of India. From the Earliest Period to the

Close of the India Company's Government ; with an Epitome of Subsequent
Events. By John Clark Marshal, Ces I. Abridged from the Author's
larger work. Second Edition, revised. Crown 8vo, with Map, 6s. 6d.

MARTIN. Goethe's Faust. Translated by Sir Theodore Martin,

K. C. B. Second Edition, crown 8vo, 6s. Cheap Edition, 3s. 6d.

The Works of Horace. Translated into English Verse,

with Life and Notes. Fourth Edition. In 2 vols, crown 8vo, printed on
hand-made paper. [In the i^ress.

Poems and Ballads of Heinrich Heine. Done into English
Verse. Printed on papier verge, crown 8vo, 8s.

Catullus. With Life and Notes. Second Edition, post 8vo,

7s. 6d.

- The Vita Nova of Dante. With an Introduction and

Notes. Second Edition, crown 8vo, 5s.

- Aladdin : A Dramatic Poem. By Adam Oehlenschlaeger.

Cap. 8vo, 5s.

A Tragedy. By Oehlenschlaeger. With

Notes. Cap. 8vo, 3s.

King Rene's Daughter : A Danish Lyrical Drama. By

Henrik Hertz. Second Edition, cap., 2s. 6d.

INIEIKLEJOHN. An Old Educational Reformer-Dr Bell. By
J. M D. Meiklejohn, M.A., Professor of the Theory, History, and Practice
of Education in the University of St Andrews. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Into. a Manual of English Prose Literature, Biographical

and Critical : designed mainly to show Characteristics of Style. By W. Into,
M.A., Professor of Logic in the University of Aberdeen. Second Edition,
revised. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Characteristics of English Poets, from Chaucer to Shirley.

Crown 8vo, 9s.

MITCHELL. Biographies of Eminent Soldiers of the last Four

Centuries. By aiajor-General John Mitchell, Author of 'Life of Wallenstein.'
With a Memoir of the Author. 8vo, 9s.

Mair. Poetical Works of D. M. Mom (Delta). With Memoir by

Thomas Air, and Portrait. Second Edition, 2 vols. cap. 8vo, 12s.

Domestic Verses. New Edition, cap. 8vo, cloth, gilt,

4s. 6d.

Lectures on the Poetical Literature of the Past Half-century.
Third Edition, cap. 8vo, 5s.

Life of Manse Watch, Tailor in Dalkeith. With 8

Illustrations on Steel, by the late George Cruikshank. Crown Svo. 3s. 6d.
Another Edition, cap. Svo, is. 6d.

MONTAGUE. Campaigning in South Africa. Reminiscences of

an Officer in 1879. By Captain W. E. Montague, 94th Regiment, Author of
Claude Meadowleigh,' &c. 8vo, los. 6d.

MONTALEMBERT. Count de Montalembert's History of the

Monks of the West. From St Benedict to St Bernard. Translated by Mrs
Oliphant. 7 vols. Svo, ;^3, 17S, 6d.

Memoir of Count de Montalembert. A Chapter of Recent
French History. By Mrs Oliphant, Author of the 'Life of Edward
Irving,' «Stc. 2 vols, crown Svo, £i, 4s.

MURDOCH. Manual of the Law of Insolvency and Bankruptcy :

Comprehending a Summary of the Law of Insolvency, Notour Bankruptcy,
Composition - contracts. Trust-deeds, Cession, and Sequestrations; and the
Winding-up of Joint-stock Companies in Scotland ; with Annotations on the
various Insolvency and Bankruptcy Statutes ; and with Forms of Procedure
applicable to these Subjects. By James Murdoch, Member of the Faculty of
Procurators in Glasgow. Fourth Edition, Revised and Enlarged, Svo, ^i.

Leaves. A Glance at some of the Principles of Comparative

Philology. As illustrated in the Latin and Anglican Forms of Speech. By
the Hon. Lord Leaves. Crown Svo, is. 6d.

Songs and Verses, Social and Scientific. By an Old Contributor

to 'Mama.' Fifth Edition, cap. Svo, 4s.

The Greek Anthology. Being Vol. XX. of 'Ancient Classics
for English Readers.' Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

NEW VIRGINIANS, THE. By the Author of ' Estella Russell,'

Julia,' &c. In 2 vols., post Svo, i8s.

NICHOLSON. A Manual of Zoology, for the Use of Students.

With a General Introduction on the Principles of Zoology. By Henry Al-leone
Nicholson, M.D., F.R.S.E., F.G.S., &c Professor of Natural History
in the University of St Andrews. Sixth Edition, revised and enlarged.
Crown Svo, pp. 866, with 452 Engravings on Wood, 14s.

Text-book of Zoology, for the Use of Schools. Third Edition,
enlarged. Crown Svo, with 225 Engravings on Wood, 6s.

Introductory Text-book of Zoology, for the Use of Junior

Classes. Third Edition, revised and enlarged, with ic(6 Engravings, 3s.

Outlines of Natural History, for Beginners ; being Descriptions
of a Progressive Series of Zoological Types. Second Edition, with

NICHOLSON. A Manual of PalEeontologv, for the Use of Students.

With a General Introduction on the Principles of Palaeontology. Second
Edition. Revised and greatly enlarged. 2 vols. 8vo, with 722 Engravings,

£,1, 2S.

The Ancient Life-History of the Earth. An Outline of the

Principles and Leading Facts of Palseontological Science. Crown 8vo, with
numerous Engravings, los. 6d.

On the " Tabulate Corals " of the Palaeozoic Period, with

Critical Descriptions of Illustrative Species. Illustrated with 15 Lithograph
Plates and numerous Engravings. Super-royal 8vo, 21s.

On the Structure and Affinities of the Genus Monticulipora

and its Sub-Genera, with Critical Descriptions of Illustrative Species. Illustrated
with numerous Engravings on wood and lithographed Plates. Super-royal
8vo. 1 8s.

NICHOLSON. Redeeming the Time, and other Sermons. By the
late MaxweA Nicholson, D.D., Minister of St Stephen's, Edinburgh. Crown
8vo, 7s. 6d.

Communion with Heaven, and other Sermons. Crown

8vo, 5s. 6d.

Best in Jesus. Sixth Edition. Cap. 8vo, 4s. 6d.

OLIPHANT. The Land of Gilead. With Excursions in the

Lebanon. By Laurence Oliphant, Author of ' Lord Elgin's Mission to
China and Japan,' &c. With Illustrations and Maps. Demy 8vo, 21s.

Piccadilly : A Fragment of Contemporary Biography, With

Eight Illustrations by Richard Doyle. Fifth Edition, '4s. 6d. Cheap Edition,
in paper cover, 2s. 6d.

Russian Shores of the Black Sea in the Autumn of 1852.

With a Voyage down the Volga and a Tour through the Country of the Don
Cossacks. 8vo, with Map and other Illustrations. Forth Edition, 14s.

OLIPHANT. Historical Sketches of the Reign of George Second.

By Mrs Oliphant. Third Edition, 6s.

The Story of Valentine ; and his Brother. 5s., cloth.

Katie Stewart. 2s. 6d.

Salem Chapel. 2s. 6d., cloth.

The Perpetual Curate. 2s. 6d., cloth.

Miss Marjoribanks. 2s. 6d., cloth.

The Rector, and the Doctor's Family, is. 6d., cloth.

John : A Love Story. 2s. 6d., cloth.

OSBORN. Narratives of Voyage and Adventure. By Admiral
Shepard Osborn, C.B. 3 vols, crown 8vo, 12s. Or separately: —

Stray Leaves from an Arctic Journal ; or, Eighteen Months

in the Polar Regions in Search of Sir John Franklin's Expedition in 1850-51.
To which is added the Career, Last Voyage, and Fate of Captain Sir John
Franklin. New Edition, crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

The Discovery of a North West Passage by H.M.S. Investigator,
during the years 1850-51-52-53-54. Edited from the'^Logs and Journals of
Captain Robert C. M'Clure. Fourth Edition, crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Quedah ; A Cruise in Japanese Waters : and, The Fight on

the Peiho. New Edition, crown 8vo, 53.

OSSIAN. The Poems of Ossian in the Original Gaelic. With a

Literal Translation into English, and a Dissertation on the Authenticity of the
Poems. By the Rev. Archibald Clerk. 2 vols, imperial 8vo, £,\, his. 6d.

PAGE. Introductory Text-book of Geology. By David Page,

LL.D. , Professor of Geology in the Durham University of Physical Science,
Newcastle. With Engravings on Wood and Glossarial Index, Eleventh
Edition, 2s. 6d.

- Advanced Text-book of Geology, Descriptive and Industrial.
With Engravings, and Glossary of Scientific Terms. Sixth Edition, revised
and enlarged, 7s. 6d.

- Handbook of Geological Terms, Geology, and Physical Geography.
Second Edition, enlarged, 7s. 6d.

- Geology for General Readers. A Series of Popular Sketches

in Geology and Palaeontology. Third Edition, enlarged, 6s.

- Chips and Chapters. A Book for Amateurs and Young

Geologists. 5s.

- The Past and Present Life of the Globe. With numerous

Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 6s.

- The Crust of the Earth : A Handy Outline of Geology.

Sixth Edition, is.

- Economic Geology ; or. Geology in its relation to the Arts
and Manufactures. With Engravings, and Coloured Map of the British Islands.
Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

- Introductory Text-book of Physical Geography. With

Sketch-Maps and Illustrations. Ninth Edition, 2s. 6d.

Advanced Text-book of Physical Geography. Second Edition.

With Engravings. 5s.

PAGET. Paradoxes and Puzzles : Historical, Judicial, and Literary.
Now for the first time published in Collected Form. By John Paget, Harris
8vo, 12s.

PATON. Spindrift. By Sir J. Noel Baton. Cap., cloth, 5s.

Poems by a Painter. Cap., cloth, 5s.

PATTERSON. Essays in History and Art. By R. H. Patterson.

SVO, Is.

PAUL. History of the Royal Company of Archers, the Queen's
Body-Guard for Scotland. By James Balfour Paul, Advocate of the Scottish
Bar. Crown 4to, with Portraits and other Illustrations. £i, 2s.

PAUL. Analysis and Critical Interpretation of the Hebrew Text of

the Book of Genesis. Preceded by a Hebrew Grammar, and Dissertations on
the Genuineness of the Pentateuch, and on the Structure of the Hebrew Language.
By the Rev. William Paul, A.M. 8vo, i8s.

PERSONALITY. The Beginning and End of Metaphysics, and the

Necessary Assumption in all Positive Philosophy. Crown 8vo, 3s.
By the Same.

The Origin of Evil, and Other Sermons. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.
PETTIGREW. The Handy Book of Bees, and their Profitable

Monno-Mnpnf. TKv A PwTTinRiT'.w Trnnrfh "Rrlitirm FlnlnroffifJ with EnPTav-

PHILOSOPHICAL CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS.

Companion Series to Ancient and Foreign Classics for English Readers.
Edited by William Knight, LL.D., Professor of Moral Philosophy, University
of St Andrews. In crown 8vo volumes, with Portraits, price 3s. 6d.

1. Descartes. By Professor Mahaffy, Dublin.

2. Butler. By the Rev. W. Lucas Collins, M. A., Honorary Canon of Peterborough.

3. Berkeley. By Professor A. Campbell Eraser, Edinburgh.

4. FicHTE. By Professor Adamson, Owen's College, Manchester.

Pollock. The Course of Time : A Poem. By Robert Pollock,

A.M. Small fcaj). 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. The Cottage Edition, 32mo, sewed,
8d. The Same, cloth, gilt edges, is. 6d. Another Edition, with Illustrations
by Birket Foster and others, cap., gilt cloth, 3s. 6d., or with edges gilt, 4s.

PORT ROYAL LOGIC. Translated from the French : with Introduction,
Notes, and Appendix. By Thomas Spencer Barnes, LL.D., Professor
in the University of St Andrews. Eighth Edition, imo, 4s.

POTTS AND Darnel. Aditiis Facilities : An easy Latin Construing
Book, with Complete Vocabulary. By A. W. Potts, M.A., LL.D.,
Head-Master of the Fetters College, Edinburgh, and sometime Fellow of St
John's College, Cambridge; and the Rev. C. Darrell, M.A., Head-Master of
Cargilfield Preparatory School, Edinburgh, and late Scholar of Pembroke and
Downing Colleges, Cambridge. Sixth Edition, cap. Svo, 3s. 6d.

Aditus Facilities Graeca. An easy Greek Construing Book,

with Complete Vocabulary. Third Edition, cap. Svo, 3s.

Prince. The Live-Stock of the Farm. By. Robert O. Prince.

Third Edition, crown Svo. ' [In the press.

PUBLIC GENERAL STATUTES AFFECTING SCOTLAND,

from 1707 to 1S47, with Chronological Table and Index. 3 vols, large Svo,
£3, 3S.

PUBLIC GENERAL STATUTES AFFECTING SCOTLAND,

COLLECTION OF. Published Annually with General Index.

RAMSAY. Two Lectures on the Genius of Handel, and the Dis

tincture Character of his Sacred Compositions. Delivered to the Members of
the Edinburgh Philosophical Institution. By the Very Rev. Dean Ramsay,
Author of 'Reminiscences of Scottish Life and Character.' Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

RANKINE. A Treatise on the Rights and Burdens Incident to
the Ownership of Lands and other Heritages in Scotland. By John Ranking,
M.A., Advocate. Large Svo, dos.

READE. A Woman-Hater. By Charles Reade. 3 vols, crown

8vo, ;^i, 5s. 6d. Originally published in ' Blackwood's Magazine.'

REID. A Handy Manual of German Literature. By M. F. Reid.

For Schools, Civil Service Competitions, and UniVersity Local Examinations.
Cap. Svo, 3s.

ROBERTSON. Orellana, and other Poems. By J. Logie Robertson.
Cap. Svo. Printed on hand-made paper.

RUSTOW. The War for the Rhine Frontier, 1870: Its Political

and Military History. By Col. W. Rustow. Translated from the German,
by John Lapland Needham, Lieutenant Rem. Artillery. 3 vols. Svo, with
Maps and Plans, ;£i, his. 6d.

ST STEPHENS ; or. Illustrations of Parliamentary Oratory. A

Poem. Co))iprisi)ijr—Pym— Vane— Strafford— Halifax— Shaftesbury— St John
—Sir R. Walpole — Chesterfield — Carteret — Chatham — Pitt— Fox — Burke-sheridan
— Wilberforce — Wyndham — Conway — Castlereagh —William Lamb
(Lord Melbourne)— Theme— Lord Gray— O'Connell— Plunkett— Shiel— Collect
Macaulay— Peel. Second Edition, crown Svo, 5s.

SANDFORD and Townshend. The Great Governing Families

of England. By J. Langton Sandford and Meredith Townshend. 2 vols.
8vo, 15s., in extra binding, with richly-gilt cover.

SCHETKY. Ninety Years of Work and Play. Sketches from the

Public and Private Career of John Christian Schetky, late Marine Painter in
Ordinary to the Queen. By his Daughter. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d,

SCOTTISH NATURALIST, THE. A Quarterly Magazine of

Natural History. Edited by F. Buchanan White, M.D., F.L.S. Annual
Subscription, free by post, 4s.

SELLAR. Manual of the Education Acts for Scotland. By

Alexander Craig Sella r , Advocate. Seventh Edition, greatly enlarged,
and revised to the present time. 8vo, 15s.

SELLER AND STEPHENS. Physiology at the Farm ; in Aid of

Rearing and Feeding the Live Stock. By William Seller, M.D., F.R.S.E.,
Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh, formerly Lecturer on
Materia Medica and Dietetics ; and Henry Stephens, F.R.S.E., Author of ' The
Book of the Farm,' &c. Post Svo, with Engravings, i6s.

SETON. St Kilda : Past and Present. By George Seton, M.A.

Oxon. ; Author of the ' Law and Practice of Heraldry in Scotland,' &c. With
appropriate Illustrations. Small quarto, 15s.

SHADWELL. The Life of Colin Campbell, Lord Clyde. Illustrated
by Extracts from his Diary and Correspondence. By Lieutenant-general
Shadwell, C.B. 2 vols. Svo. With Portrait, Maps, and Plans.
36s.

SIMPSON. Paris after Waterloo : A Revised Edition of a " Visit

to Flanders and the Field of Waterloo." By James Simpson, Advocate. With
2 coloured Plans of the Battle. Crown 8vo, 5s.

SMITH. Italian Irrigation : A Report on the Agricultural Canals

of Piedmont and Lombardy, addressed to the Hon. the Directors of the East
India Company ; with an Appendix, containing a Sketch of the Irrigation System
of Northern and Central India. By Lieut-col. R. Baird Smith, F.G.8.,
Captain, Bengal Engineers. Second Edition. 2 vols. 8vo, with Atlas in folio,
sos.

SMITH. Thorndale ; or, The Conflict of Opinions. By William

Smith, Author of 'A Discourse on Ethics,' &c. A New Edition. Crown
8vo, los. 6d.

Gravenhurst ; or, Thoughts on Good and Evil. Second

Edition, with Memoir of the Author. Crown Svo, 8s.

A Discourse on Ethics of the School of Paley. Svo, 4s.

Dramas. i. Sir William Crichton. 2. Athelwold. 3.

Guide. 24mo, boards, 3s.

SOUTHEY. Poetical Works of Caroline Bowles Southey. Cap.

Svo, 5s.

The Birthday, and other Poems. Second Edition, 5s.

Chapters on Churchyards. Cap., 2s. 6d.

SPEKE. What led to the Discovery of the Nile Source. By John

Hanging Speke, Captain Hem. Indian Army. Svo, with Maps, &c., 14s.

Journal of the Discovery of the Source of the Nile. By

J. H. Speke, Captain Hem. Indian Army. With a Map of Eastern Equatorial
Africa by Captain Speke; numerous illustrations, chiefly from Drawings by
Captain Grant ; and Portraits, engraved on Steel, of Captains Speke and
Grant. Svo, 21s.

STARFORTH. Villa Residences and Farm Architecture : A Series
of Designs. By John Starforth, Architect. 102 Engravings. Second Edition,
medium 4(0, £,1, 17s. 6d.

STATISTICAL ACCOUNT OF SCOTLAND. Complete, with

Index, 15 vols. 8vo, £\(i, impeach
County sold separately, with Title, Index, and Map, neatly bound in cloth,
forming a very valuable Manual to the Landowner, the Tenant, the Manufacturer,
the Naturalist, the Tourist, &c.

STEPHENS. The Book of the Farm ; detailing the Labours of the

Farmer, Farm-Steward, Ploughman, Shepherd, HedKcr, Farm-Labourer, Field-worker,
and Cattleman. By Henry Stephens, P.R.S.E. Illustrated with
Portraits of Animals painted from the life ; and with 557 Engravings on Wood,
representing the principal Field Operations, Implements, and Animals treated
of in the Work. A New and Revised Edition, the third, in great part Rewritten.
2 vols, large 8vo, £2, los.

The Book of Farm-buildings ; their Arrangement and

Construction. By Henry Stephens, F.R.S.E., Author of 'The Book of the
Farm ; ' and Robert Scott Burn. Illustrated with 1045 Plates and engravings.
Large 8vo, uniform with ' The Book of the Farm,' &c. £\, us. 6d.

The Book of Farm Implements and Machines. By J.

Slight and R. Scott Burn, Engineers. Edited by Henry Stephens. Large
Svo, uniform with ' The Book of the Farm,' £2., 2s,

Catechism of Practical Agriculture. With Engravings, is.

STEWART. Advice to Purchasers of Horses. By John Stewart,

Vas. Author of ' Stable Economy.' 2s. 6d.

Stable Economy. A Treatise on the Management of

Horses in relation to Stabling, Grooming, Feeding, Watering, and Working.
Seventh Edition, cap. Svo, 6s. 6d.

STIRLING. Missing Proofs : a Pembrokeshire Tale. By M. C.

Stirling, Author of ' The Grahams of Invermoy.' 2 vols, crown Svo.

STOR^MONTH. Etymological and Pronouncing Dictionary of the

English Language. Including a very Copious Selection of Scientific Terms.
For Use in Schools and Colleges, and as a Book of General Reference. By the
Rev. James Stormonth. The Pronunciation carefully Revised by the Rev.
P. H. Help, M.A. Cantab. Sixth Edition, with enlarged Supplement, containing
many words not to be found in any other Dictionary. Crown Svo,
pp. 800. 7s. 6d.

The School Etymological Dictionary and Word-Book.

Combining the advantages of an ordinary pronouncing School Dictionary and
an Etymological Spelling-book. Cap. Svo, pp. 254. 2s

STORY. Griffith D'ltalia. By W. W. Story, Author of ' Robe di

Roma.' Second Edition, cap. Svo, 7s. 6d.
Nero ; A Historical Play. Cap. Svo, 6s.

Vallombrosa. Post Svo,

STRICKLAND. Lives of the Queens of Scotland, and English

Princesses connected with the Regal Succession of Great Britain. By Agnes
Strickland. With Portraits and Historical Vignettes. 8 vols, post Sv^,
^4, 4s.

Surges. John - a - Dreams. A Tale. By Julian Surges.

New Edition, crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

78. 6d

An Accomplished Gentleman. Second Edition. Post Svo,

SUTHERLAND. Handbook of Hardy Herbaceous and Alpine

Flowers, for general Garden Decoration. 'Containing Descriptions, in Plain
Language, of upwards of looo Species of Ornamental Hardy Perennial and
Alpine Plants, adapted to all classes of Flower-gardens, Clockwork, and
Waters ; along with Concise and Plain Instructions for their Propagation and
Culture. By William Sutherland, Gardener to the Earl of Into ; formerly
Manager of the Herbaceous Department at Kew. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Swains. A Handbook of Weather Folk-Lore. Being a Collection
of Proverbial Sayings in various Languages relating to the Weather,
with Explanatory and Illustrative Notes. By the Rev. C. Swains, M.A.,
Vicar of High Hurst Wood, Cap. 8vo, Roxburghee binding, 6s. 6d.

Wayne. Lake Victoria : A Narrative of Explorations in Search

of the Source of the Nile. Compiled from the Memoirs of Captains Speke and
Grant. By George C. Wayne, M.A., late Fellow of Corpus Christi College,
Oxford. Illustrated with Woodcuts and Map. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

TAYLOR. Destruction and Reconstruction : Personal Experiences
of the Late War in the United States. ' By Richard Taylor, Lieutenant-general
in the Confederate Army. 8vo, los. 6d.

TAYLOR. The Story of My Life. By the late Colonel Meadows

Taylor, Author of 'The Confessions of a Thug,' &c. &c. Edited by his
Daughter. Third Edition, post 8vo, 9s.

THOLUCK. Hours of Christian Devotion. Translated from the

German of A. Thole, D.D., Professor of Theology in the University of Halle.
By the Rev. Robert Menzies, D. D. With a Preface written for this Translation
by the Author. Second Edition, crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

THOMSON. Handy Book of the Lower-Garden : being Practical

Directions for the 'propagation, Culture, and Arrangement of Plants in Flower-gardens
all the year round. Embracing all classes of Gardens, from the largest
to the smallest. With Engraved and Coloured Plans, illustrative of the various
systems of Grouping in Beds and Borders. By David Thomson, Gardener to
his Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, Eg., at Drumlanrig. Third Edition, crown
8vo, 7s. 6d.

■ The Handy Book of Fruit-Culture under Glass : being a

series of Elaborate Practical Treatises on the Cultivation and Forcing of Pines,
Vines, Peaches, Figs, Melons, Strawberries, and Cucumbers. With Engravings
of Hothouses, &c., most suitable for the Cultivation and Forcing of these
Fruits. Crown 8vo, with Engravings, 7s. 6d,

THOMSON. A Practical Treatise on the Cultivation of the Grapevine.
By William Thomson, Tweed Vineyards. Ninth Edition, 8vo, 5s.

TOM Cringe's LOG. A New Edition, with Illustrations.

Crown Svo, cloth gilt, 5s. Cheap Edition, 2s.

TRANSACTIONS OF THE HIGHLAND AND Agricultural
SOCIETY OF SCOTLAND. Published annually, price 5s.

Rational Theology and Christian Philosophy in Eng-
he Seventeenth Century. By John Bullock, D.D., Principal of St

Bullock.

■* land in the

Mary's College in the University of St Andrews ; and one of her Majesty's
Chaplains in Ordinary in Scotland. Second Edition. 2 vols. 8vo, 28s.

Some Facts of Religion and of Life. Sermons Preached

before her Majesty the Queen in Scotland, 1866-76. Second Edition,
Svo, 7s. 6d.

Bullock. The Christian Doctrine of Sin; being the Croall
Lecture for 1876. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Theism. The Witness of Reason and Nature to an All-wise
and Beneficent Creator. 8vo, los. 6d.

Tatler The Wonder-Seeker; or, The History of Charles Douglas.

By M. Fraser Tatler, Author of ' Tales of the Great and Brave,' &c. A New
Edition. Cap., 3s. 6d.

VIRGIL. The aeneid of Virgil. Translated in English Blank
Verse by G. K. Rickards, M.A., and Lord Ravenswood. 2 vols. cap. 8vo,

lOS.

WALFORD. Mr Smith : A Part of his Life. By L. B. Walford.

Cheap Edition, 3s. 6d.

Pauline. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Cousins. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Troublesome Daughters. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

WARREN'S (SAMUEL) WORKS. People's Edition, 4 vols, crown

8vo, cloth, 18s. Or separately :—

Diary of a Late Physician. 3s. 6d. Illustrated, crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Ten Thousand A- Year. 5s.

Now and Then. The Lily and the Bee. Intellectual and Moral
Development of the Present Age. 4s. 6d.

Essays : Critical, Imaginative, and Juridical. 5s.
WARREN. The Five Books of the Psalms. With Marginal

Notes. By Rev. Samuel L Warren, Rector of Esher, Surrey ; late Fellow,
Dean, and Divinity Lecturer, Waltham College, Oxford. Crown 8vo, 5s.

WELLINGTON. Wellington Prize Essays on " the System of Field

Manoeuvres best adapted for enabling our Troops to meet a Continental Army."
Edited by Sir Edward Bruce Hamley, C.B. 8vo, 12s. 6d.

Westminster ASSEMBLY. Minutes of the Westminster Assembly,

while engaged in preparing their Directory for Church Government,
Confession of Faith, and Catechisms (November 1644 to March 1649). Printed
from Transcripts of the Originals procured by the General Assembly of the
Church of Scotland. Edited by the Rev. Alex. T. Mitchell, D.D., Professor
of Ecclesiastical History in the University of St Andrews, and the Rev. John
Struthers, LL.D., Minister of Prestonpans. With a Historical and Critical
Introduction by Professor Mitchell. 8vo, 15s. ,

WHITE. The Eighteen Christian Centuries. By the Rev. James

White, Author of 'The History of France.' Seventh Edition, postSvo, with
Index, 6s.

History of France, from the Earliest Times. Sixth Thousand,
post 8vo, with Index, 6s.

WHITE, Archaeological Sketches in Scotland— Kintyre and Knap-dale.

By Captain T, P. White. Ree., of the Ordnance Survey. With numerous
Illustrations. 2 vols, folio, £/^, 4S. Vol. I., Kintyre, sold separately,

£•2, 2S.

WILLS AND GREENE. Drawing-room Dramas for Children. By

W. G. Wills and the Hon. Mrs Greene. Crown 8vo, 6s.

WILSON. The " Ever Victorious Army : " A History of the

Chinese Campaign under Lieut-col. C. G. Gordon, and of the Suppression of
the Tai-ping Rebellion. By Andrew Wilson, F.A.S.L. 8vo, with Maps, 15s.

The Abode of Snow : Observations on a Journey from

Chinese Tibet to the Indian Caucasus, through the Upper Valleys of the
Himalaya. New Edition. Crown 8vo, with Map, los. 6d.

WILSON. Works of Professor Wilson. Edited by his Son-in-law,

Professor Farrier. 12 vols, crown Svo, £2, 8s.

Christopher in his Sporting-Jacket. 2 vols., 8s.

Isle of Palms, City of the Plague, and other Poems. 4s.

Lights and Shadows of Scottish Life, and other Tales. 4s.

Essays, Critical and Imaginative. 4 vols., i6s.

The Notes Ambrosial. Complete, 4 vols., 14s.

The Comedy of the Notes Ambrosial. By Christopher

North. Edited by John Skelton, Advocate. With a Portrait of Professor
Wilson and of the Ettrick Shepherd, engraved on Steel. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

Homer and his Translators, and the Greek Drama. Crown

8vo, 4s.

Innate. Annie Weir, and other Poems. By David Innate.

Cap. Svo, 5s.

Lily Neil. A Poem. Crown Svo, 4s. 6d.

WORSLEY. Poems and Translations. By Philip Stanhope

Worsley, M.A. Edited by Edward Worsley. Second Edition, enlarged.
Cap. Svo, 6s.

Wilde. A Dreamer. By Katharine Wilde. In 3 vols.,

post Svo, 25s. 6d.

YOUNG. Songs of Stranger done into English Verse. By William

Young. New Edition, revised. Cap. Svo, 4s. 6d.

YULE. Fortification : for the Use of Officers in the Army, and

Readers of Military History. By Col. Yule, Bengal Engineers. Svo, with
numerous Illustrations, los. 6d.

x<7x

%>^:'r.

IIIIliM

3 0112 045853105

;^%

^t .

x^^ .
